[Column 1]
in the Nauvoo Temple, December, 1845.
These two sisters, whose lives were so
closely interwoven, were just the opposite
in looks and temperament. Ann A., was
very tall, of dark complexion, black
silken hair, and very dark eyes, was in-
tensely spiritual and rather delicate.
Amanda was of medium height, fair com-
plexion, blue eyes and light hair, was
rather temporal, or seemed more wrapped
up in the affairs of this life than her sis-
ter, and never knew until she was ad-
vanced in years what sickness meant.
Ann A. was gentle, kind, and had great
sympathy for the delicate and weak. She
was rather Quakerish in her dress, and
seemed to avoid society, or shrank from
the association of [-]trangers, and she ap-
peared happier at home than abroad un-
less she could administer help and com-
fort to her friends and to the sick and
those who were in need.
	Amanda was quick to speak, of high
temperament, given to plain speech; with
her a “spade was a spade.” She loved
and craved company, the association of
the young and the old, and was never
known to refuse an invitation to a social
gathering or any place of enjoyment.
These two sisters were baptized the same
day; they received their patriarchal bless-
ings the same day. They were both
sealed for time and all eternity to the
same husband. They lived together,
reared their children together, and loved
each other’s children. Together they
participated in the trials, persecutions,
mobbings and drivings of the Saints from
their beautiful city, Nauvoo, and from
their sacred Temple, from their homes
and possessions. And they remained
with the “Camp of Israel” upon the Mis-
souri river, in 1846-7, while their husband
came west as one of the pioneers with
President Brigham Young. In 1848, the
brethren having returned to Winter
Quarters to lead the main body of the
Church westward, these two sisters came
with the rest of their husband’s family,
though in different companies. Their
journey across the plains, which to many
seemed laborious, was to Amanda one
long pleasure trip. She took her share
of the work and the hardship uncom-
plainingly, and it has always been a
pleasure to listen to her stories of the
good times they had on that journey, and
likewise when they first came to these
valleys, though in the midst of privation
and want. She always took a great deal
of pleasure and satisfaction in dyeing
wool or yarn, in spinning, carding or
“cooking for the mill hands,” or anything
that came her way. She was well and
strong and was never known to shirk any
duty. Her first great sorrow was the
death of her husband. The Deseret
Evening News of Mond[-]y, June 22, 1868,
in an extended editorial thus announced
his death: “A prince and a great man has
this day passed from among us. Presi-
dent Heber C. Kimball, who was born
June 14, 1801, fell asleep at twenty min-
utes to eleven o’clock this morning, June
22nd, after a pilgrimage on the earth of
sixty-seven years and eight days.”
	His last words uttered distinctly the
evening before his death were: “Truth,
eternal Truth,” and it was the testimony
of this “Truth, eternal Truth” that
burned in the souls of his wives, the
mothers of his children, that braced them
up in this the hour of their bereavement.
	
[Column 2]
	At this time Amanda was but thirty-
eight years of age. She was the mother
of four sons, and she was ever a true
mother to her children, and true to the
end to this great and noble man of God.
She had been his wife for time and she
knew she would be his throughout the
endless eternities. She loved him and he
loved her. The following is an extract
from a letter from Heber C. Kimball to
his wife Amanda: “I have no fault to
find with you. I can say God bless my
wife Amanda with all things that she shall
wish for that will make her course safe to
the haven of rest.”
	At the time of his death, his wife, Ann
A., was very low with bronchitis and it
was feared her mortal end was near.
But her love for her children and the
great desire of her heart was to see them
grow to manhood aud womanhood, and
this buoyed her up. And with the faith
and prayers of her friends and loved ones
and the blessing of God, she lived, but
she never recovered her health, and
after eleven years of patient suffering, on
the 12th day of October, 1879, she passed
to the great beyond. She was fifty-
one years and ten months old. She was
the mother of five children, three sons
and two daughters. Her sister Amanda
had not been blessed with daughters,
consequently her heart and sympathy
went out to these two motherless girls,
and they turned to her, and Aunt
Amanda became their second mother.
Henceforth she was as devoted to them
and their children as to her own.
	The next great sorrow that came to
her was the death of her third son,
Jeremiah. He had been called to go
on a mission to Germany to preach the
Gospel. From the moment he re-
ceived his call until his death, he had
a foreboding of death to himself or one
of his loved ones. He had a wife and
three children (one had died previous to
his call.)
	In a letter to his mother, who was
then visiting her oldest son in Paris,
Bear Lake, he wrote:
	“Mother, if ever there was any one
who needed the help of the Lord it
is me, at the present time. I feel that
I am going to my death. But I feel
that I am in the hands of the Lord.
And what man has done, man can do
again. I hope by our faith and prayers
I will be protected, and find all well
when I return. May God bless you
and all of us, and all of His people
from day to day, Good-bye. From
your downcast but ever loving son and
well-wisher to all men, Jeremiah.”
	The foreboding anxiety and gloom that
he seemed unable to throw off reduced
him in flesh twenty pounds in the three
weeks before his departure. On the
night of May 25, 1887, while on his
way to Germany to fulfill his mission,
he was accidentally killed by falling from
the train between Fort Scott and Camas,
Kansas, This was a heavy blow to his
wife and children, and mother and the
entire family, for we all loved Jerry.
His body was brought back to Salt Lake
City and buried there June 1. The
funeral services were held in the Seven-
teenth ward, of which he was a member.
Bishop O. F. Whitney preached the fun-
eral sermon.
	Aunt Amanda was an active worker in

[Column 3]
the Relief Society and was always devoted
to her religion, always remembered her do-
nations and tithing, though at times it
was but the “widow’s mite.” She took a
great deal of comfort working in the
Temple. She did considerable work for
the dead, but her chief delight seemed to
be in entertaining her friends. She
seemed supremely happy when she could
get up a nice dinner and invite her
friends to eat with her. It was her cus-
tom to have her own children and her
sister Ann A’s. children together at her
home at least once a year. It can be
truly said that at her home “the latch
string hung on the outside.” At Confer-
ence time she always had a house full,
and there seemed always room for one
more. And when circumstances were
such that she could not be at home to
wait upon her friends, she would leave
the key with instructions to help them-
selves, and be at home, for they were
welcome. Many of her country friends,
who had been in the habit of partaking
of her hospitality when they come to
Conference, will miss her: but her chil-
dren and her sister’s children are now the
chief mourners.
	There is a vacant place in their home,
an aching void in their hearts that only
time can heal. For at the old Kimball
homestead in the Eighteenth Ward, at
six minutes before nine o’clock on the
evening of November 4, 1904, death re-
lieved the suffering of Aunt Amanda, and
her freed spirit passed into eternal rest.
She had been ailing for about a week
with an acute attack of pneumonia, and
in spite of all that could be done for
her in the way of medical help and in
administrations of the healing ordinance,
she gradually grew weaker, though at
times rallying, but finally succumbing to
the disease that had fastened its fatal
grip upon her. Among those who
administered to her in her last hours
were President Joseph F. Smith, Elder
J. Golden Kimball and Bishop O. F.
Whitney. At times she revived, and
it seemed that she might recover, but
inability to sleep, or to take proper
nourishment, intensified the malady from
which she was suffering until death
came.
	She was in her seventy-fifth year. She
had led an active life, and was energetic
and industrious to the end. She wanted
to live. She found joy in living. No
matter how dark the clouds seemed, Aunt
Amanda could always see a silver lining,
could always see something to live for.
Considering the circumstances that sur-
rounded her, and the many odds that
were against her, she found more real
pleasure in life than any woman I have
ever known. She recognized her loved
ones and was conscious until the last
moment. She fought against death and
prayed incessantly for life. But she was
suffered to go by Him who doeth all
things well. She was the mother of four
children, twenty-eight grandchildren and
ten great grandchildren.
	The funeral services were held in the
Eighteenth ward chapel, Monday, Novem-
ber 7, at 2 o'clock, Bishop Walter J. Beatie
of the Seventeenth ward presiding. The
speakers were Biship Beatie, Bishop
George Romney, Bishop O. F. Whitney
and President Joseph F. Smith. All of
the remarks were eulogistic of the
deceased, and many feeling references


were made to the career of her departed
husband. The prayers were pronounced
by Elder Robert Patrick and Elder John
T. Caine, while the music was furnished
by the “Imperial Quartette,” who rend-
ered “Night of Rest,” “When the Swal-
low’s Homeward Fly,” Thomas Ashworth
singing “O, my Father,” at the close.
	How we miss her! But what is our
loss will be her gain. And we feel sure
that when the book is opened out of
which we are to be judged, the name of
Amanda T. Gheen Kimball will be there
and on her life’s history not a blot nor a
blemish will be found.


