[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS IN SCANDINAVIA.
	Christmas is the most important of all
feasts or “holy days” in the northern
countries. It was originally the feast of
the sun, a feast of rejoicing because the
shortest day of the season had passed,
and the sun had commenced its return to
the north. After the introduction of
Christianity into Scandinavia, its signifi-
cance was changed, and instead of being
the feast of the sun, it became a feast
in honor of the advent of the Son of Man,
and it was for many centuries the begin-
ning of the year.
	In olden times the people commenced
making preparations for Christmas sev-
eral weeks before the time, and among
the most important of these preparations
was the making of Christmas beer, which
was done with great care. Even among
the poorer classes, where the family beer
was ordinarily very weak, a much better
quality was made for Christmas, and suf-
ficient of it must be had to supply the
family liberally, and to treat every visitor
during the thirteen successive Christmas
days. During Christmas quarreling and
fighting was strictly forbidden; all must
be peace and good will, and all court
proceedings were suspended. Should
anyone do harm to his fellow man during
Christmas, great punishment would be
meted out to him later. Nor were the
people permitted to do any kind of hard
manual labor, only the most necessary
work, such as feeding the stock, etc., was
permissible.
	The so-called Christmas peace was also
extended to the brute creation. As long
as Christmas lasted man should keep
peace even with their natural enemies,
such as wolves, bears, rats and mice. To
avoid giving offence, these animals were
not even to be called by their right
names; but the wolf was during Christ-
mas called “grey leg” the bear “the old
one in furs,” mice the “little greys,” and
rats “long tails.”
	As the 24th of December drew nearer
the confusion and disorder, incident to
the preparations, became greater, and on
the 23rd of December it was at its height.
It was baking, cooking and a thorough gen-
real house cleaning that had to be done.
Everything had to be ready by sundown on
the 24th of December. Among the prepa-
rations for Christmas was also the rubbing
of the teeth of all domestic animals, and
that being done, horses, catte, sheep, etc.
were treated to a double portion of the
best of their usual allowance. An old
legend says that at midnight after Christ-
mas eve, at the exact hour that Christ
was supposed to have been born, all
animals received the power of speech,

[Column 2]
and could for a few moments converse
with each other like human beings,
	Everything else being ready, the peo-
ple turned their attention to their person-
al appearance; a bath and a complete
change of clothing on Christmas eve was
universal; and when attired in their best
the members of the household greeted
each other appropriately with “Merry
Christmas, health and strength and all
that is dear.” Then followed exchanges
of Christmas gifts, and then all sat down
to a bounteous Christmas supper in the
decorated room. The meal consisted
usually of dried fish and sweet porridge,
or ham with green cabbage and mush,
usually rice with well-to-do people. Af-
ter the table was once set Christmas eve,
it was never cleared until Christmas was
through, as every visitor in the house
during the time must, without exception,
partake of the hospitality of the same.
None were forgotten on Christmas eve;
all poor people were remembered; a large
dish was set out for the Christmas Saint
(Santa Claus), and the birds were provid-
ed for liberally.
	The Christmas cake was a most impor-
tant feature in every household; some-
times it was made in the shape of a man,
a ram, or a fat hog, otherwise perfectly
round. Sometimes a gold or silver coin
was placed in the center of the cake.
Christmas gifts commenced with ex-
changes of these cakes, but later they
were accompanied with gifts. The cus-
tom pertaining to Christmas cake was
introduced into England by the Vikings
from Scandinavia a thousand years ago,
and then “Yule cake” (yule or jul is the
Danish for Christmas) is well known to
this day.
	While eating the Christmas supper,
the head of the family would always
present a toast for Christ and the New
Year, and all would drink in honor there-
of from the oldest and most costly vessel
which the household possessed. Beer
and “mjod,’ (mead made of honey) were
the beverages used at Christmas, and this
was freely used by both men and women.
Whiskey and strong beverages were sel-
dom used on Christmas eve. After the
more solid meal, “Ebleskiver” was served
and the meal was prolonged as much as
possible, as there existed an old su-
perstitious legend to the effect that
the one who got through eating first
would die before the year was through.
At length, when the meal was over, the
head of the family offered a benediction,
and then gave the hand to the housewife,
saying, “Tak for Mad” (thanks for the
food), and after that shook hands with
all in the house; then follows a general
handshaking with “Tak for Mad,” coup-
led with many good wishes; the children
and the servants come in last; they com-
mence with the oldest person of the
household and end with the youngest.
	Many superstitious customs were asso-
ciated with Christmas eve proceedings:
Thus, in the glare of the Christmas can-
dles, which were to burn all night, young
people could see their future mate, and
everybody, to a greater or less extent,
see their future, at least what would hap-
pen to them the next year.
	Christmas day (December 25th) was
observed as a solemn holiday. Then ev-
erybody went to church, but spent the
rest of the day quietly at home, and it
was considered a very offensive breach of

[Column 3]
Christmas etiquette for any visits to be
made on that day. But on the 26th were
commenced the general Christmas fes-
tivities, aside from the solemn assemblies,
and they continued until the 5th of Janu-
ary. An important feature of the second
Christmas day was the horse feast, which
originated in the ancient Scandinavian
mythology, when the god Frey rode
around among his people on a holy ani-
mal; but when Christianity was intro-
duced in Scandinavia, they substituted
Stephen, the first Christian martyr, for
the god Frey, and the custom finally
dwindled down to general Christmas
races.
	Numerous and varied were the sports
and festivities of Christmas in the Scan-
dinavian countries in the olden times, but
these have considerably reduced of late
years. Yet Christmas, even today, is
looked forward to with much joy and an-
ticipation, and considerable good will is
manifested by the people, one toward
another, during the Christmas holidays,
and the exchange of presents and friendly
greetings is in order, as much now as it
ever was. The Christmas tree festivities
were almost unknown in Scandinavia un-
til seventy-five years ago, but were uni-
versal in France as early as the thirteenth
century.
