	In the spring of 1840 some of the first
Elders belonging to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints came to
Chester county, Pennsylvania, and Aman-
da’s parents and their children who were
old enough to comprehend, were soon
convinced of the truth of the Gospel. In
August of the same year her father, moth-
er and oldest sister were baptized, and
the following December Amanda and her
sister, Ann A., were also baptized. At
this time Amanda was twelve and Ann A.
was fourteen years of age.
	In the year 1841 her father, in company
with Edward Hunter (who was a near
neighbor), went to Nauvoo to visit the
Prophet and Saints. He received his
patriarchal blessing and was ordained an
Elder under the hands of Hyrum Smith.
He returned home in good health and
spirits, On the 21st of January, 1842,
her father sold his farm and prepared to
gather with the Saints at Nauvoo, and on
the 11th day of May, 1842, they bade
farewell to the place of their nativity and
started westward, for the Gospel sake.

[Column 2]
In the language of Ann A., “They were
prospered and blessed and had a pleasant
journey, for they were a happy family.”
	They arrived in the city of Nauvoo the
28th day of June, having been seven
weeks on the way. Her father bought
an acre of land just two blocks west of
the Temple, and built a two-story brick
house. He also purchased of the Proph-
et Joseph Smith eighty acres of prairie
land on the Carthage road, for which he
paid eight hundred dollars. He labored
diligently to build and improve, and to
cultivate the earth. He made his family
comfortable and assisted in building the
Temple by labor and liberal donations.
He was always very kind to the poor.
The Prophet Joseph Smith and his broth-
er Hyrum were frequent and welcom
visitors at the Gheen home. On the 29th
of July, 1843, Amanda and her sister,
Ann A., received their patriarchal bless-
ings under the hands of Patriarch Hyrum
Smith. Other prominent visitors came
to their home, among them Brothers
Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball.
And Heber became very much attached
to Amanda’s sister, Ann A., who was at
that time very ill with ague. He con-
verted her and her parents to the prin-
ciple of plural marriage, and he asked
her to be his wife under the bonds of the
new and everlasting covenant, which she
consented to, and on the 10th day of Sep-
tember, 1844, they were married by Brig-
ham Young, then President of the Twelve.
We find the following in her journal in
reference to her marriage:
	“This I do for the sake of salvation and
exaltation in the celestial kingdom of
God, with a man I think the best in the
world, and one who has proved himself a
man of God.”
	Amanda’s father was very much at-
tached to the Prophet and his brethren,
and often he was bowed down in grief
and wept when he witnessed the life of
jeopardy and persecution that they en-
dured from day to day. The day before
the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hy-
rum were murdered he visited them in
the jail and was received with many bless-
ings.
	He had a great desire to see the Tem-
ple completed, but he was disappointed.
The following year he was taken sudden-
ly ill, and died July 15, 1845, age forty-
seven years and ten months.
	From the journal of Ann A. we read
the following: “This is a heavy blow to
our family, for he was a kind and faithful
father and husband and a good man.
Brother Brigham preached his funeral
sermon, and he said he had known Broth-
er William A. Gheen well, and if he was
to live his life over he could not better it
one particle.”
	At the time of his death the four young-
est children had the whooping cough, and
the baby was apparently dying, but
through the blessings of God she lived to
be a great blessing and became a mother
in Israel. Amanda in time was convinced
also that Heber C. Kimball was “the best
man in the world,” and was married to him


