Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
the year 1857. Was married to David John, now
President of the Utah Stake of Zion, in Cardiff,
South Wales, Feb. 8, 1860, They left Livevpool,
April 16, 1861, in the ship Manchester; and
reached Provo five months later, where they lo-
cated and remained until her death.
	Sis[-]er John held the position of secretary of
the Third Ward Relief Society for ten years. For
eleven years she was counselor to Margaret T.
Smoot in the presidency of the Utah Stake Relief
Society, and at the death of Sister Smoot suc-
ceeded her as president, which position she has
filled for twenty-one years.
	She was a faithful worker and was loved and
respected by all who knew her. She was the
mother of one son and eight daughters, one son
and three daughters now living.
	Sister John was one of those noble spirits re-
served to come forth in the latter days, and has
lived the life of a true Saint, Her death occurred
Dec. 14, 1905, the immediate cause being pneu-
monia, and she is sincerely mourned by her many
friends.							C. B. P.
	DEATH OF ONE OF OUR BELOVED SISTERS.
	Sister Mary A. Morton Smith was the daughter
of Albert and Josephine Norton, and the wife of
Albert S. Smith.
	She was born Sept. 29, 1874; died Sept. 26, 1905,
at her parents’ home in Panguitch. At an early
age she was associated with the Primary Associa-
tion and the Mutual Improvement Association.
For a number of years she was secretary, treas-
urer and librarian of the Y. L. M. I. Association
of Panguitch.
	In 1901 she was married to Albert S. Smith of
Parowan. They made their home in Circleville,
where she became an active member of the Relief
Society and of the Y. L. M. I. A. at Circleville;
these positions she filled wite honor.
	She was the mother of three childten, all of
whom died in infancy. She leaves a husband, a
father and mother, two brothers and a sister, as
well as many rolatives and a large circle of
friends to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held in the meeting-
house, at 3 o’clock on the 8th. The speakers all,
spoke of the good qualities of the departed. The,
choir rendered beautiful singing. May her loved
ones be comforted, in the assurance that she is not
dead but gone to continne her labors in a higher
and better world.				M. L. H.
		ELIZABETH P. NEWTON.
			(Died Dec. 3, 1905.)
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
in his infinite wisdom, to remove from our midst
by the hand of death, one of our most esteemed
teachers, Elizabeth Parker Newton; and,
	Whereas. In her departura we have sustained
the loss of a true friend and devoted worker,
whose presence it was a pleasure to enjoy, and
whose life and example is well worthy the emula-
tion of all.
	Therefore, Be it resolved, That we tender our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family, in this
their sad hour of affliction and distress, and that
her memory be cherished as a sacred inheritance,
to remain with us as long as life shall last, with
the hope of meeting in a brighter world.
	And be it further resolved, That a copy of


these resolutions be recorded upon the minutes of
the Nineetenth Ward Relief Society.
			ELIZA K. WILLIS.
		(Died December 29, 1905.)
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father,
in His infinite wisdom, to remove from our midst,
by the hand of death, one of our most esteemed
teachers, Eliza K. Willis; and,
	Whereas, in her departure we have sustained
the loss of a true friend and devoted worker,
whose presence it was a pleasure to enjoy, and
whose life and example is well worthy the emu-
lation of all
	Therefore, Be it resolved, That we tender our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family in this
their hour of affliction and distress, and that her
memory be cherished as a sacred inheritance, to
remain with us as long as life shall last, with the
hope of meeting in a brighter world.
	And be it further resolved. That a copy of these
resolutions be recorded upon the minutes of the
Nineteenth Ward Relief Society.
	Committee: Sarah A. Hancock, Chairman;
Agnes G. Branch, Victoria Thurman, Officers
and Members Nineteenth Ward Relief Society.


