[Column 1]
	A FEW STRAY THOUGHTS.
	Perhaps it does not often occur to wo-
men, or to our people, what a great insti-
tution the Relief Society, founded away
back in Nauvoo, Illinois, on March 17,
1842, has become. But it has a history
which if told in brief would astonish
many of those who have been actively as-
sociated with its labors for years.
	The Relief Society has from the first
taken up various lines of work, and its
members have sought to stimulate the
energies of those in need of assistance to
self-helpfulness, trying to open up ave-
nues of employment for women and chil-
dren, as well as homes for the needy, and
places to meet in and to keep their small
or large possessions; for this purpose land
had to be purchased, therefore dealing in
real estate became necessary, not for
speculation but for permanency; and the
Society became land-owners, having right
of domain.
	The first real estate owned by this So-
ciety was given by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, the promoter and organizer of this
remarkable institution; the first woman’s
society of any magnitude we are aware
of, and we may say with all propriety,
the best and most thoroughly organized
throughout the world.
	The actual value of its temporal
strength would be difficult to estimate, as
it does not consist wholly in tangible
things, for it has withal so strong a hold
upon its supporters, that it is as a part of
their own lives. This is what gives to the
Society its most important values. This
can scarcely be comprehended by those
outside of the main working forces of the
organization, but where women have
given the best part of their lives to its es-
tablishment and maintenance, they can
understand what it means.
	Speaking of such laborers in the work,
who have been specially strong pillars in
the Society, and upon whom grave re-
sponsibilities have rested, there are many
still living (besides those beloved ones
who are gone behind the vail) who de-
serve to have their names upon a Roll of
Honor, too many to mention in a brief
notice, but to those who stand foremost
now, a fitting word of praise should be ac-
corded, and it would be almost impossi-
ble not to record here the names of our
General President, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith and Sister Jane S. Richards, Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Weber
Stake. The strength and popularity (if I

[Column 2]
may be allowed the term) of the Society
owes much to its veteran women.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow, whose sayings we
frequently quote, often remarked, “Make
anything popular and its success is as-
sured.” We want to make the Relief So-
ciety popular, it is already a success, and
our young people, both boys and girls,
should become familiar with the worth
and importance of this Society. An institu-
tion that holds in trust real estate, houses
and lands, wheat and merchandise and
various other property, including libra-
ries, cannot be considered as occupying
an inferior place in a community. There
have been many enterprises and home in-
dustries started and managed by women
under the auspices of this Society, not all
successful, but in the majority of cases
they have flourished.
	In caring for the sick and dying, it is
extremely doubtful if any other organiza-
tion in the world has done anything like
as much; in the silk industry, when Sister
Zina D. H. Young was President of it and
traveled this Western country over to
start the enterprise, it was the sisters of
the Relief Society that raised mulberry
trees, fed the worms, reeled the cocoons
and from the silk mannfactured articles
of apparel, also elegant and dainty silk
laces, ties, fichus and ribbons. Without
enumerating all the things we might, to
prove the assertions we have made and
are prepared to verify, we will just
mention that we started a Hospital with-
out funds, rented a house, and depending
almost entirely on monthly donations
from the Relief Society, and some paying
patients, carried it on for twelve years
under the auspices of a Board of Direc-
tors appointed by the General Society,
and it was estimated that two-thirds of
the cases treated were purely charity
work.
	Within the last few years Nurses’
Classes have been taught under the au-
spices of the Society, and we are safe in
saying that so far these classes have
been eminently successful and we may
add popular.
	On the seventeenth of March next
month it will be sixty-four years since the
Relief Society was organized, and it is
hoped that each separate branch will ob-
serve that day in some way significant,
not only of the past but of its present
prosperity and future growth and perma-
nency. It must grow and increase not
only in intelligence and attainments, mor-
ally and spiritually, that will benefit the
community generally as well as individu-
als, but in force and power by means of
thrift, wisdom and economy in the man-
agement of its enterprises and affairs
generally.
	The substantial things count for a great
deal, such as buildings for uses of meet-
ings, or homes for the homeless, and
granaries or bins for the storing of wheat
or breadstuff against a day of want or
famine. This is an enterprise entirely
new to women until our sisters com-
menced it, and the signs of the times are
even more significant now than ever be-
fore in this regard. The recent news of
the famine in Japan must certainly
awaken the tenderest pity and compas-
sion, and a desire to reach out a helping
hand to them in such sore need. In con-
sideration of these things and the proph-
ecies of modern as well as past times, it
behooves us to be always on duty, as a So-

[Column 3]
ciety that stands for relief with charity
and mercy for watchwords.
	It is certainly desired by those who have
at heart the best interests of this Society,
that this anniversary of the 17th of
March, 1906, shall be the banner year,
that the sisters shall rouse themselves to
extra exertions in each respective locality
and try to make every member happy
and glad in the spirit of love and bless-
ing in whatever form the demonstration
may be made, that all who will may par-
take of the enjoyment.


