[Column 1]
forward the work for the little people,
and had given her encouragement to
persevere in the mammoth undertaking.
	A quartette by the young ladies was
given, “Though deep’ning trials,” etc.,
and very much enjoyed by all.
	Greetings were then exchanged and
lively conversation kept up, piano solos
intervening, Miss Mattie Reed recently re-
cently returned from studying in Ger-
many, giving some choice musical selec-
tions; remarks were also made by several
of the sisters in appreciation of Sisters
Eliza R. and Zina D., the benefits de-
rived from their personal acquaintance,
and thelr remarkable life work. Those
who responded were Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Sister Ida S. Dusenberry, Emily S.
Richards, Edna L. Smith, Sarah Jenne
Cannon, Margaret P. Young, President
Bathsheba W. Smith, who referred lov-
ingly to Sisters Eliza and Zina, and Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts who spoke in rather
a humorous vein and Ruth M. Fox
	The most appetizing refreshments were
served to the guests by the young ladies
of the Board in their very charming and
delightful manner, and meantime Presi-
dents Joseph F. Smith and John R. Win-
der arrived, having been unavoidably de-
tained with business engagements. Broth-
er W. B. Dougall was also present.
	Later the program was taken up, Sis-
ter Minnie J. Snow, chairman, making
an impromptu speech giving some inci-
dents connected with her illustrious kins-
woman, and introducing as the first on
the program, her little daughter Lucile,
who was the nearest relative present to
the celebrated poet whose hymns are now
sung in many languages. Little Lucile, in
a very sweet and graceful style, sang the
entire hymn, “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest,” her mother playing the ac-
companiment. 
	Sister E. B. Wells had been given the
subject, “Sister Eliza as a Mother in
Israel.” The speaker dwelt at some
length on the life-work of this distin-
guished woman organizer, philanthrop-
ist, poet, writer and author, and as a
mother in deed to many thousands of
men and women, strictly speaking.
	Sister May Anderson spoke of a num-
ber of incidents in the life of Sister Eliza
that were fraught with intense tnterest to
the children of Zion and Primary work-
ers. Sister May B Talmage read with
fine expression and depth of feeling, Sis-
ter Eliza’s poem entitled “Evening
Thoughts, or What It Is To Be A Saint.”
Sister Maria Y. Dougall spoke more
especially of Sister Eliza’s motherly qual-
ities, though she had never been a moth-
er, and paid a charming tribute to her
labors among the children, also of her
foster-mother, Sister Zina, her delightful
story telling to all the children in her
rooms in the Lion House, and her regu-
lar daily prayers with those under her
care, Sister Susa Y. Gates also gave
reminiscences of the Lion House days,
mentioning along with Sister Eliza R.
and Zina D, some incidents connected
with her own mother’s sojourn in the
Lion House. President John R. Winder
favored the audience with brief remarks
and gave them good advice, alluded to
Sister Eliza’s peculiar and trying exper-
iences and asked that Sister Bathsheba
Smith relate the incident of Sister Eliza’s
composing the hymn that had just been
ung, O, my Father.” Sister Bathsheba

[Column 2]
responded, relating the conditions under
which Sister Eliza was inspired to write
the beautiful hymn that has thrilled the
souls of so many thousands.
	President Joseph F. Smith made an
eloquent and inspirational address to the
women of Zion, encouraging them to ex-
cel in all that would make for the uplift-
ing of humanity and the spread of truth
and righteousness.
	The exercises closed with all joining in
singing the hymn, “‘Mid scenes of con-
fusion and creature complaints,”––chorus
Home, Sweet Home. Benediction was
pronounced by Elder W. B. Dougall.


