[Column 1]
	Sister Nancy Margaret Osborn Nielson was
born in Greene Co., Indiana, March 8, 1840.
Came to Utah in 1852 with her father’s family; her
mother died on the plains. They settled in East
Weber Weber Co. Utah. On Feb. 11, 1857, she
was married to Elder Hans Enoch Nielson. They
were among the first settlers of Hyrum, coming
here in the year 1860. She was the mother of
eleven children, six of whom will meet her on the
other side, while five, three sons and two
daugh ers are left here to revere the memory of a
kind and loving mother.
	Oh the 9th of May, 1878, she was chosen as
Secretary of the Hyrum Ward Relief Society of
which she had been a member since its organiza-
tion, ten years before, May 9, 1868. She made a
most efficient Secretary and performed her duty
faithfully until Nov. 1, 1891 when she was honor-
ably released. Seven months later she was again
chosen one of the officers of the Relief Society in
the Hyrum Ward, this time as first Counselor. In
May, 1893, she was chosen President of the Relief
Society, which office she held until Feb. 1899, when
on account of failing health she was honorably
released, but on the 25th of October, 1901, when
the Hyrum Ward had been divided into three
wards, Sister N M. Nielson was again chosen
as first counselor in the Ward in which she re-
sided (Hyrum 3rd Ward). Her health did not
improve, however, and on July 18, 1904, she was
again released.
	She was an energetic and able president, a wise
counselor, a true friend. and a faithful Latter-day
Saint. She died Feb. 2, 1906, at Hyrum, Utah.
		Her trials are o’er, the victory won,
		The reward of faithful Saints is sure.
			May we cherish her memory,
			May it lead us on,
		Till the end of our days, and our race is run.
						GEORGENE RALPH.
In Loving Remembrance of Emily Eliza Maddi-
	son; who died very suddenly of heart failure.
	At Providence, Utah, November 28, 1905, Emily
Eliza Hemming, the beloved wife of John F.
Maddison; she was born in Coventry, Eng-

[Column 2]
land, on the 3rd day of January, 1837, Em-
braced the Gospel in her youth and was banished
several times from her father’s house for the gos-
pel’s sake; crossed the sea in the ship William
Tapscott; she waited on the sick during the voy-
age; arrived in Utah in 1859; lived the first winter
in Wellsville, Cache County, and then went to
Providence to her permanent home. She married
John F. Maddison in 1860, and had five children,
who died in their infancy, but she reared two
motherless children. In her younger days she took
an active part in the Primary and Sunday School
work and identified herself with the Relief Soci-
ety from the beginning, and was the first secre-
tary, and at her death was first counselor to the
President. Through all her affliction of sorrow
and trouble and all the hardships of a new country
she was never known to complain. She was a
faithful wife and mother; she was always willing
to wait upon the sick and render assistance to the
poor in their distress; was a true, faithful Latter-
day Saint, and was beloved by all the Saints.
		CHRISTINA THEURER, President.
		JEMIMA CAMPBELL, Secretary
				Providence Relief Society.
	SKETCH OF SISTER MARY JOHN.
	Sister Mary John was born in Wales Dec. 23,
1831; became converted to the doctrines of the
