Home Science committees as may be here with us at that time, and all other interested workers. We wish to emphasise the fact that all of this Home Science study is a part of our Relief Society Guide Work. The committees who may be appointed by the stake and ward authorities to have charge of this work occupy exactly the same position as do the committees for genealogical departments in the stakes and wards. We would disapprove of any separate organisation movement which would weaken our own forces and introduce uncertain and mischievous elements into the harmonious conduct of our Relief Society. We certainly desire that these committees shall have the hearty support of ward and stake presidents, but they will operate under the direction of the officers, in the same manner as do the other committees. There is a great field for this work, and we see many wonderful opportunities for enlarging this department and the scope of our various activities; but we wish to begin modestly, and gradually grow on natural principles without crippling any other departments or introducing anything in the nature of a boom which is detrimental to all concerned. Therefore, we urge prudence and wisdom in the conduct of this and all other phases of our work.
MISCELLANEOUS NOTES AND FACTS.
Mrs. Rorer. To Make Flavourings. Grate the outside of oranges and lemons, using granulated sugar, tb. to the half of either grated rind. Drying and putting away in bottles, makes cheap and most delicious flavourings.
Convent Pie.—2 ounces of spaghetti boiled. 1 chopped red pepper. tb. 2 slices of bread and butter diced. 1 chopped green pepper. tb. ¾ lb. grated cheese. 2 eggs well whipped. 1 tb. salt. Flavour with onion, pour over the whole affair in the bowl 1 cup of milk, and bake in the oven.
Mock Charlotte Pudding. 3 tb. cornstarch. ½ cup cold water, in which cornstarch is moistened. Add quickly 1½ cup boiling water, ½ cup sugar, flavour with vanilla or nutmeg, whites of 3 eggs beaten stiff. Place on stove until cooked thin and transparent, add the stiffly beaten eggs and sugar. Fold into mould, let stand until cold. Serve with fruit juice or cream.
French Floating Island. 1 pt. milk. 3 tb. granulated sugar. 3 eggs. 1 ts. flavouring. 3 tb. pulverised sugar. ? salt spoon salt. Separate the eggs, whip the whites stiff with 3 tb. pulverised sugar, (ask for the X or XX grade). Have whites light, but not stiff. Add granulated sugar and beat until glossy and stiff. Heat the milk, place on top the meringue. Cook until it sets. A floating island is never thick. Add the yolks beaten to the milk, put on the stove and cook until it sticks to the knife. Adding a few chopped almonds to this island, makes a delicious flavour. When cold, place your meringue on top and serve.
Fresh almonds will cure indigestion. A most convenient and helpful hint to those preparing a large amount of potatoes for Church suppers or social parties, is to mash them in a bread mixer. They are as light and creamy as if whipped by hand, and only require a few minutes work.
It is becoming a well recognised fact that poultry keeping is an essential adjunct to all farming. In districts where alfalfa is grown, special attention is being given to this industry. The value of the fowls as insect destroyers is appreciated. They are also great destroyers of other bug pests that infect the fields.
PASTRY LESSON.
3 cups pastry flour. 1 ts. sugar. 1 ts. salt. 1 cup shortening.
Cut shortening into flour, add cold water to moisten, but do not make wet. Mix with spoon, take from bowl, roll out four times, and fold. Put away in napkin to ripen. Do not put pastry directly on ice, as it absorbs moisture and ruins the pastry. Dough left standing over night is much lighter than if used immediately after making.
Roman Pie Crust (Individual).
1 cup flour. 1 tb. butter. 1 tb. sugar. 1 egg.
Rub butter in flour, and moisten the mixture with egg, using additional tablespoon of water. Take out on the bread-board and knead very lightly. Roll out thin and line the dish at once, giving plenty of room for crust. Take the additional pieces of pastry left, wet the edges of pie-plate and crust. Place strips around the edge, and place to cool in ice chest.
Filling for Roman Pie.
5 eggs beat until light. 1 cup granulated sugar. 1 cup chopped nut meats. 1 ts. vanilla. 2 tb. cocoa.
A SOUND AND STRONG OLD AGE.
The winter is a hard time for the elders, and the diseases which attack them—pneumonia and bronchitis, Bright's disease and heart disease—are not as easily controlled as are typhoid fever and tuberculosis and the other communicable diseases which attack us in earlier life. In most cases, however, these affections may be checked by living a healthful life, for they are all diseases due to low vitality or to excessive strain of some sort, to unhygienic habits rather than to years alone. Most of the diseases of later life and senility are primarily due to aging of the blood vessels, as a result of excesses of some sort, overeating, alcoholic stimulants, or overwork. Avoidance of excesses would add five years to the life of the average adult. Good food in proper amount, frequent draughts of pure, cool water will keep the digestion and the kidneys in such condition as to avoid many of the troubles of later life. Temperance in eating and drinking, a modicum of physical exercise, rest in the open air, avoidance when possible of nervous strain—in short, that moderation in all things which the Latin poet prescribes—these give the best insurance of a long and happy life.