[Vol10 | March 1923 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Minutes of First Stake Relief Society Meeting]

Minutes of First Stake Relief Society Meeting, at Ogden, July 19, 1877 (From Woman's Exponent, August 1, 1877) Thursday Morning, July 19th—President Young and a select party of brethren and sisters went to Ogden by special train, to attend a meeting, in the Ogden Tabernacle, of the Relief Societies of Weber Co. The Tabernacle was crowded to overflowing, the congregation being nearly all ladies—officers and members of the various Relief Societies of Weber Co. After the usual exercises, President Young arose and stated that he had expected to hear reports from the different societies, but since his arrival had been informed that the meeting had been called expressly to receive instructions from himself and the brethren. He proceeded to instruct them upon the subject of health—how to avoid sickness, how mothers should train their children; counseled mothers to give them; early lessons of faith and 'principle; to teach them to believe implicitly in God and. That he takes cognizance of every act of their lives; that they are surrounded by good angels, ministering spirits; and inculcate in their hearts and minds a love of virtue, honesty and truthfulness, and let their example 'be in harmony with their precept, and the force of this education would have a bearing upon their whole lives, when they should go gut FIRST STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY MEETING 113 from under the mother's influence. He designated mothers as the moving instrument in the hands of Providence to guide the destinies of nations, and exhorted mothers to teach their children not to make war, but to teach them peace; he asked the question, "Who gives the key to the nations of the earth? It is the mothers, it is not the fathers." In giving advice and counsel-on minor points, he alluded to trifles and small things making up all great matters, that our lives are full of little incidents which make one great whole, one vast experience; that the earth itself was composed of little grains of sand. He referred to the counsel he gave the sisters in regard to storing up wheat, with which he was pleased, and spoke earnestly and emphatically on the subject of making our own hats and bonnets, also hats for the brethren, and said that even in this one class of manufacture we could save tens of thousands of dollars; and that to save money was more difficult than to earn it. He urged upon the sisters the necessity of entering heart and soul into the home industries, and to use their utmost influence with their husbands to have them establish such institutions and manufactories as would make this people independent. His instructions were most eloquent, full of pathos and fatherly counsel, and if carried out in the lives of the Saints, would very soon make us not only healthful and wealthy, but fit us for the society of angels and sanctified beings. Elder Carrington,: in his remarks, dwelt at some length upon fashion; which to him, he said, was a myth; he asked no odds of Mrs. Grundy; felt that it was beneath the dignity of a Saint to follow the fashions of Babylon; exhorted the sisters to make their own fashions; said that some of the sisters were ahead of the brethren in many good things. President Wells, in the course of his remarks, said he had long conceded woman was a power in the earth, and he hailed these organizations of the sisters as harbingers of good results, carrying with them as they did an influence more manifest than in times past. That woman was an indispensable helpmeet to man, and should occupy that position in all practical work in building up the kingdom of God, as well as in spiritual work and exaltation; said that the Saints of God should learn to govern and control themselves according to the laws that govern our being, and the principles of life and salvation. Elder John Taylor said there were more women present than was usual to meet;: he alluded to woman's faith, referred to the counsel which a woman gave to a man of wealth whom the prophet told to go and dip seven times in Jordan; he felt it was too little a thing, but the woman had faith and intuition, and by listening to her he was healed through obedience. Spoke of obeying the laws of life and health, to preserve our lives to the age of a 
 tree, and alluded to the manner in which children were brought up in the aristocratic families of Europe, and said as Saints we ought to be more particular in training our children than thie people of the world are, and pray God ever to help us. President Young then gave some wise and practical instructions concerning the mission of sericulture, which had been given to. The sisters, and told them it was a way in which they could make money for their own use. Talked a little more about dress; said that our time was all we could call our own, we should have to give an account of it, and therefore we should use it to the best possible advantage, in assisting to build up the kingdom of God upon the earth. Elder Franklin D. Richards arose, made a few closing remarks; requested in behalf of Mrs. Richards, president of Weber county Societies, that these societies would prepare a quarterly report of the condition of each society and its financial interests, to be read there three months from that time, to which time that meeting' was adjourned; and to all the sisters who felt like entering more fully and earnestly into the work of home industries and helping to become self-sustaining, a request was made for them to rise to their feet; to which every one in the room responded gladly. Altogether the day was one of rejoicing, everything passing off pleasantly. The good people of Ogden were most profuse in hospitality to those who came from other places, and there were so many good things said for the encouragement of women in stepping forward to assist in building up Zion, that we could only wish that all the world could have heard it. "Mormon" women should surpass the women of the world in good works, for they are in the enjoyment of the wisest counsel, and it is to be hoped they will carry it out in their lives, and transmit to posterity the heritage of good deeds, more precious than gold or gems. The greatest service you can render anyone is that which helps a person to help himself, and I know of nothing that will go further to accomplish this than will the habit of performing more service and better service than one is paid to render. The most startling discovery made, as a result of analyzing more than 12,000 men and women, was the fact that 95% of those people were failures because they refused to render such service, which ought to be a cue to the rest of us.