[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,      	-      	 OCTOBER, 1905 | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,      	-      	 OCTOBER, 1905


[Column 1]
	INTERESTING GATHERING.
	On Sunday evening, October 29, in the
new stake hall, the Relief Society of
Pioneer Stake, by courtesy of the Stake
Presidency were given the time after the
Sacrament had been administered to pre-
sent the Society work. President Annie
Wells Cannon taking charge and welcom-
ing the visitors. There were present by
invitation President Joseph F. Smith,
Apostles John Henry and George A.
Smith and C. W. Penrose, President
Bathsheba W. Smith and Secretary E. B.
Wells, Dr. R. B. Penrose and Sister Ju-
lina L. Smith of the General Board,
Sister Sarah E. Richards Smith and a
number of other visitors.
	Sister Cannon in her opening remarks
paid a graceful tribute to the Presidency
of the Stake and Bishops for offering
them one night in a year in which to
present the Society work in the Stake
and in the several wards, outlined the
mothers’ work and the nurses depart-
ment and explained her views of Relief
Society work in general; realized it con-
sisted more in doing than in preaching.
	Sister Lizzie F. Silver gave an original
well-written paper on “Reading.”
	Dr. R. B. Penrose spoke upon “Home
Nursing” its value, explained the benefits
to be derived by all young mothers from
taking the regular course. Sister E. B.
Wells urged all the young girls and wo-
men to become members of the Relief
Society and explained its many benefits.
President B. W. Smith spoke of her
anxiety for the leaders of the Church,
felt the same spirit was manifest now
that prevailed in Nauvoo. Stated that
she was the only living member present
at that first meeting when the Relief So-
ciety was organized by the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith.
	President Joseph F. Smith addressed
the meeting most eloquently, and gave
every possible enconragement to the
young women to assist in the Relief So-
ciety labors for their own development,
and stated it was directly organized by
the Prophet Joseph Smith. He thought
it one of the most important organiza-
tions in the Church. Spoke upon the
possible opportunities open to those who
visited the sick to encourage the spirit
and power of faith. and the effect of its
inspiring hope in the mind of the afflicted
and illustrated the point by relating an
experience of his own regarding the na-
tive traditions of the Hawaiians, who
believe they can pray each other to death.

[Column 2]
President Smith declared with great pow-
er that he knew the promises of the Gos-
pel in regard to healing the sick were true.
He continued his discourse, speaking
most impressively upon the subject of
revelation. He was listened to through-
out with most earnest attention, although
the hall was crowded to the doors and
many were standing. He concluded his
remarks with a glowing tribute to Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith and other faithful
sisters in the Relief Society, blessing them
for their good works.
	Elder Charles W. Penrose and Elder
John Henry Smith each spoke a few
words exhorting the young people to
greater diligence and faithfulness in the
Gospel and to live pure lives; and be true
to themselves and their religion. Miss
Mabel Cooper rendered a beautiful solo,
“He Shall Feed His Flock.” Congrega-
tion sang “Doxology, and Elder Sylvest-
er Q. Cannon pronounced the benedic-
tion. 
	This was a remarkable meeting in
many respects, the new hall just opened,
the President of the Church, several
Apostles, High Priests, High Councilors,
Elders and Bishops present as also dis-
tinguished women, whose lives have been
rich in good works.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We call the attention of our readers to
the article in this number entitled
“Home” a lecture given in the Thirtieth
Ward in this city in connection with the
Mother’s Work, we consider it worthy of
being read in the Relief Society meetings
here in this city and elsewhere.
	The October Relief Society Conference
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall on
the 5th, and 9th of this month, was per-
haps the largest in numbers of any con-
ference the Society has ever held, and
also one of the most interesting in many
ways. The reception tendered by the
General Board to Stake Presidents and
General officers of the Y. L. M. I. Asso-
ciation and Primary on Thursday evening
October 5th, at the Bee Hive, was a
very enjoyable affair, and summing up
briefly the exercises, one can only give a
passing notice of the Scripture reading
by Miss Maud May Babcock, the singing
by Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley and others,
and the instrumental music; all were of a
very fine quality and lofty in sentiment
and expression. The remarks by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith were very inspiring
to Relief Society workers and teemed
with sound advice and superior wisdom,
and indeed were so uplifting that the
sisters must have realized that he was in-
tensely interested in the minute details of
the working methods of the Society,
	The October meeting of the U. S. D.
R. was held in the EXPONENT Office on
the 16th inst, the Regent Mrs. Mary A.
H. Cannon presiding. Mrs. Phebe Y.
Beatie gave the topic of the day, “His-
tory of Dr. Joseph Warren, after which
Mrs. Beatie read the poem written by
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder entitled “The Grave
of Paul Revere.”
	Miss Catherine Wells recently returned
from Europe and who had also visited
Massachusetts scenes etc., of the revolu-
tion gave an entertaining talk on places,
battle-grounds, monuments, statues, and

[Column 2]
reminiscences pertaining to revolutionary
times; mentioning the statue of Paul
Revere, Battle of Lexington, Cambridge,
Hancock’s Old Home, Concord, The Cow
Path, and several other famous places,
etc. Emerson’s home, the grave of
Margaret Fuller, mentioned the fact of
one of her ancestors a woman, having
given a signal by lighting a fire on a hill,
when the ships were coming into Boston
harbor. She also gave some interesting
items of her trip abroad. Committee
appointed to prepare for Thanksgiving
at November meeting—Mesdames Carol
Y. Cannon, Phebe Y. Beatie and Eliza-
beth R. Wright. Benediction by the
Chaplain.
	A new book has been issued recently
from the Deseret News Publishing Co.,
Salt Lake City, entitled “Centenary
Souvenir 1805-1905, Mormon Philosophy
or The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith.” The author is Elder Lycurgus
A. Wilson, who was also the author of
“The Life of David W. Patten.” The
book is new in many respects and yet old
in others; there are a number of quota-
tions from Joseph the Prophet to which
positive reference is made that the reader
may refer to. That the book is very
interesting, one may infer from its title,
as every Latter-day Saint desires to learn
all that is possible about the first Prophet,
Seer and Revelator in this dispensation,
That the author has taken great pains to
collect material is very apparent in exam-
ining the work, and that he has been
choice in the language and spiritual tone
of the composition of the book. It is a
work that requires study and profound
thought. That it is well meant as a tri-
bute to the memory of the greatest man
of the age in which we live, there is no
doubt; and that the writer has been zeal-
ous for the Gospel in undertaking to ex-
plain clearly its philosophy is demonstrat-
ed by even a hasty perusal. The one pas-
sage it called to mind in looking it over
was a quotation from Shakespeare “There
are more things in heaven and earth than
are dreampt of in our philosophy.” The
writer does not present this note as a re-
view of this rather wonderful book, but
just as a brief notice, and hopes to be-
come better acquainted with its contents,
when it has been carefully studied.


