[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: WOMAN'S RECORD. | Author: Unknown]

WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Anna E. Dickinson has gone South,
on a lecturing tour.
	MRS. Bayard Taylor is translating her
husband's history of Germany, into the Ger-
man language.
	TWO ladies were elected as overseers of
the poor at the recent town meeting in Pem-
broke.
	Vinnie Ream has taken eight degrees of
Free masonry, the honors were conferred by
Albert Pike.
	MISS Arch, daughter of Mr. Joseph Arch,
the champion of the English agricultural
laborers, has appeared as a lecturer, with
considerable success, in the provinces.
	MRS. Jepson, an English woman who was
born deaf and dumb, told a mission school at
Lowell; the other day, that she had ac-
quired the power of speech entirely by the
efficacy of prayer.
	MISS S. E. Ely, the Librarian of the pub-
lic library of Holyoke, Mass., has prepared
a new and conveniently arranged catalogue,
making a volume of 220 pages, without
closing the library while at work upon it.
	MRS. J. Ellen Foster, of Clinton, appears
before the Davenport term of the Iowa Su-
preme Court, as Attorney in the case of Os-
wald vs. Hays. This is the first instance of
a woman appearing as an advocate in a
cause before the Iowa Supreme Court.
	MADAME Bonaparte lives in Baltimore,
she is now ninety years old. She has been
to Europe sixteen times, and contemplates
going again this summer.  She is said to
possess more intelligence and vivacity than
many of the fashionable ladies of the pres-
ent day.
	QUEEN Victoria compliments Miss Emily
Faithfull, editor of Women and Work, in
this style: "Her majesty the queen wishes
Miss Faithfull every success in the laudable
undertaking by which new branches of in-
dustry are opened to the female portion of
her subjects.
	FRAU Dreyshock a teacher of vocal music
in Berlin, recently led the performance of
Schuman's "Rose Pilgerfahrt" in that city.
This is said to be the first time the con-
ductor's baton has been publicly placed in
the hands of a lady at a first-class musical
performance.
	IT may not be generally known that
Queen Victoria, though not actually on the
staff of any public journal, nor regularly en-
gaged to perform editorial work, sometimes
does contribute leading paragraphs, if not
leading articles, in the daily paper self-enti-
tled "The leading journal of Europe."
	MRS. Watson, wife of Professor Watson of
the Michigan University, was the only wo-
man who enjoyed the privilege of going on
the transit expedition from the United
States. She had a long journey—first an
overland trip to San Francisco, then a voy-
age lasting twenty-six days to Yokohama, a
four days' sail to Nagasaki, and another six
days to Tien-tsin. Then followed a voyage
up the river on small house-boats to Tung-
Chang; and finally a donkey ride of sixteen
miles to Pekin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
		FRIENDSHIP'S TRUST.
	Treasured in the heart's best keeping,
		Nestled midst its tenderest thoughts;
	Lives a memory fresh with gladness,
		With most sacred feelings fraught.
	Let not e'en the gentlest zephyr,
		Breathe this secret on the air,
	Lest it lose its timid fragrance,
		Most exquisite, rich and rare.
	Sweeter than the new-mown clover,
		Filling all my soul with bloom;
	Or the morning breath of violets,
		Heavy laden with perfume.
	Rarer than the choicest nectar,
		Which "the Gods" exultant drain,
	Thrilling every nerve and fibre,
		Which the human heart contain.
	In the far, uncertain future,
		Midst its changes, grief, or pain;
	Gathered closely to my bosom,
		Shall this precious trust remain.
	Time may bring me joy, or sorrow,
		Those now dear may colder grow,
	But this friendship true and constant,
		Never must estrangement know.
	Hushed be every thought, or feeling,
		Which engender doubt or fear,
	Cherished fondly every impulse,
		That would render life more dear.
									EMILE.
S. L. City, Nov. 4th, 1874.			E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
