The Golden Chain Hazel M. Thomson Chapter 5 The Relief Society presidency came to line it with a light pink lining. "About the dress, Bertha," said Sister Norton. "How would you like it made?" "No, we won't need a dress," said Bertha Shepherd. Nora saw that she was holding the blue velvet which she had cut down for Trudy from one of her own. "She loved this one," said Mrs. Shepherd, '"'so this is the one we will dress her in."' Nora was amazed at the spirit that prevailed in the Shepherd household after Trudy's passing. Each family member seemed to share the feeling that this was but a temporary parting, and that, sometime, they would again have Trudy with them. The funeral was an experience that she was to remember always. Even the songs sung by the ward choir echoed the same assurance displayed by the family. The words struck Nora's love-starved heart forcefully, and she remembered bits of them for days afterward: For a wise and glorious purpose Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth. In the heav'ns are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason; truth eternal, Tells me I've a mother there. Could it be possible that she, Nora Blake, had really been placed here on earth "for a wise and glorious purpose?" she wondered. Could it possibly be true that she had, somewhere in the great heavens, a heavenly mother? Nora had never heard of this before, but she was attracted by the rationality of the idea, new to her as it was. And wonder of wonders! Could she—dare she hope that one day she might be reunited with her own parents? She thought of her mother's funeral and the cold emptiness of the service. "Dust thou wert and unto dust shalt thou return." As_ these words had been intoned by the minister, it had been as if a cold hand had clutched at her heart, but to Nora this funeral for a child was something quite different. And when Jed Oliver arose to deliver the funeral sermon, it seemed to Nora that he was speaking directly to her own lonely self. "Only at times of death, perhaps, do we really appreciate the blessings to be received in the 428 temple of God and the sealing power of the Priesthood. It is a Golden Chain, binding the family together through all eternity. Life, here, for all of us, is short. Maybe not so short as it has been for Trudy, but she is not lost to her family. Sometime, if they live to be worthy, as I am sure they will, this family will be reunited. And Trudy, the gay, delightful Trudy, that has been such a joy to her family, is now a link in their Golden Family Chain." Ture was mourning, of course, and sadness, yet Nora had never attended a funeral so filled with promise and hope. It gave to her a kind of peace that she never had before experienced. Certainly, nothing she had heard in previous Mormon meetings had touched her as had the things she heard that day. As the fury of the weather decreased, so did the number of cases of flu. By the first of February school had opened again, and Nora, grateful that somehow she had escaped the sickness, went eagerly back to her teaching. Ben continued to wait each day until after the other students had left to pick up any work Nora was sending to Jed. He was not as deficient in the subject matter of arithmetic as he had been in reading; still Nora found Jed to be quite lacking in his ability for general computation. The first step she had insisted that he take was to lay a background by learning his times tables. Jed had enjoyed this immensely. It was with a little flash of pride that he repeated the nineteens to her. "TI really didn't expect you to learn them that far,' apologized Nora. "I just assumed that you knew most people stopped at the _ twelves." "How about you?" Jed had asked mischievously. "Do you know your thirteens? Come on. I'll have you a contest." Nora had had to admit that she didn't. But she hadn't minded. There had been the old look of confidence on Jed's face that hadn't been there since he started the reading lessons, and Nora had been glad to see it return. As she took the paper from Ben, she was surprised to see the set of story problems she had sent with him the night before returned exactly as she had sent them. There were no answers. "He hasn't done these,' she said, holding the paper out toward Ben. "Here," she said, "take these back and tell him to work them before I send any more." Ben shook his 'head, not taking the paper. "He said he wasn't going to do them, Miss Blake, and to send some others." "Not going to do them? But why? Why does he want more before he has finished these?" The boy looked pained for a moment. Then he answered, "Jed says to tell you he's not going to do them, and you can either send some others or forget the whole thing." "T can't understand," Nora said. "He has enjoyed the arithmetic so. Why has he suddenly decided not to do his assignment?" "Well, take this first problem," The Golden Chain said Ben, reading from the paper. "" "A man had forty acres of ground. He sold half of it, and then three-fourths of what was left. How much ground did he sell?' I think that's as far as Jed read. He just threw the paper down on the table and said a man with only forty acres is a fool to sell any of it, let alone half of it in one whack. I tried to tell him that it was only a problem, not real or anything, and the problem was only fooling. He said, 'Land is nothing to fool around with, and you take these problems back and tell her to send me some others.' " Nora took the paper to her desk. Ben sat and waited while she wrote a new set of problems, trying to teach the same fractional fundamentals in differently worded problems. Bur, as Ben thanked her and took the paper, another thought came, a sobering one. Land! It was more important to Jed Oliver than anything else in the world, with the possible exception of his religion. "Land is nothing to fool around with." No, not to him, it wasn't. It was his real love, and Nora felt something that she recognized as a twinge of jealousy, wondering how she could ever become as important in Jed Oliver's life as a piece of good earth. Along with the reading lessons, of course, Nora had felt it was important to teach Jed to spell. He had a wonderful mind, needing but to read a page once to remember everything on it. That's the way it had been with spelling. Words began to have a particular fascination for Jed, and it was only a short time later that Ben asked if he might borrow the dictionary. "Why, of course,' Nora answered. "It's there on the desk." "TI mean to keep it home for awhile," continued the boy. "At home?" asked Nora. "But Ben, it isn't going to help you when it's at home, and you're here at school. Couldn't you bring it back in the morning so the other children can use it? There's only the one that belongs to the school and my own." Ben looked at her uneasily for a moment, and then he said, "Well, I'll tell you, Miss Blake. It isn't for me. It's for Jed." "Oh! Why, of course. Here. Take mine and tell him he may keep it as long as he likes. Is he having trouble with some of the meanings in that new reader?" "No," said Ben. "I don't know exactly how he does it, but once Jed hears a word or figures one out, somehow he seems to know what it means. No, it's not the meaning. It's spelling. That's all he wants to do. Spell, spell, spell! This is the list I gave him last night. Found them in The Book of Mormon." 99 430 "We spell until I'm so sleepy I can hardly keep my eyes open. Then, when I go to sleep, he reads. I know some mornings he's hardly been to sleep at all." During the last week in March there was a ward social, but Jed did not appear. Nora moved near to hear Ben's answer when Mrs. Shepherd asked where Jed was. "Oh, he's home," said the boy, piling his plate high with sandwiches and cake, and balancing a cup of punch on one side of it. "Home with a book." 'He must have some new ones," said Mrs. Shepherd. ''Miss Blake says he has read about everything you have at school." "No, Ma'am," answered Ben. "Tt's not a new one. It's the same one. Jed is learning the dictionary." Ben's words brought a general round of laughter from those who were near enough to hear. Nora paid no particular attention to them until the night of the annual school spelling bee. Then she had cause to remember them, "Jed is learning the dictionary," and indeed, it seemed that he had. The schoolhouse had a special attraction for Nora at night. The new electric lights seemed to give the room to which she had grown so accustomed in the daytime, a certain night-time magic. As president of the _ board, Bishop Shepherd gave a welcoming speech to students and parents, and then called upon Mr. Pine to open the gathering with prayer, as was the custom at all public gatherings in the little community. And then the spelling began. It was boys against girls, ranged in a line across the front of the room and reaching down either side. Nora gave the words, beginning with fairly easy words for the benefit of the very small, and proceeding to more difficult material as the younger children were, one by one, eliminated. From the many spelling experiences during the school year, Nora could have predicted it would be between Ben Wade and Ellen Shepherd to settle the contest, and so it was. But between the two of them, even Nora could not have predicted which one would be victorious on any given occasion. She certainly did not expect Ellen to misspell "cemetery," substituting an ''a" in place of the final ''e,"" which gave Ben a chance to pick up the mistake quickly and be declared the winner. After the applause had _ subsided, Bishop Shepherd again rose to his feet. "We want all of you boys and girls to know how proud we are of you," he said, ''as parents, and also as members of the School Board. Now, Ben has won the match, and it is the right of anyone in the audience who would wish to, to challenge the winner." The room was silent for a moment, the adults busy with their thoughts, many of them, no doubt, thinking that the boys and girls had spelled many words that they would hesitate to attempt themselves. However, after a good deal of joking among neighbors and husbands and wives, deciding which one would tend the baby, and which one would spell, a rather sizeable group stood in the The Golden Chain places occupied by their children a short time before. Nora straightened the spelling books on the desk in front of her, taking a certain security from them in their keeping her from actually participating in the contest. Everyone expected a good showing from the schoolteacher, and who could ever tell what would happen in a spelling match. Why, she might be spelled down in front of all the parents and students, and on an easier word than cemetery. But her hope to stay out of it was short-lived. With Mrs. Shepherd in the group of spellers, and Ellen looking after Robbie and Mark, it left the bishop free to offer to give out the words. "Go ahead, Miss Blake," he said, reaching for her book. "If you'll just show me where to begin, it will give you a chance to take part." "A chance," thought Nora, "that I can do very well without," but she surrendered the speller to the bishop and took her place on the ladies' side. Only then did she notice that Jed had taken a place on the end of the men's row. Her heart jumped, knowing his sensitive nature, knowing that he was very likely to get beaten easily, embarrassed in front of his entire town, but things were out of her hands. There was nothing she could do at this point. The bishop opened the book. "Anticipate," he said, and the spelling match of the evening had begun. It was long past eleven before everyone else was spelled (Continued on page 460) 431 The Holy Family by Andrea del Sarto (1486-1531), Italian (Rome, Galleria Nazionale) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 2 "'Honesty, a Measure of Life." Floyd E. Breinholt, Associate Professor of Art,