Variations of the Tortilla Leanor J. Brown Member, General Board of Relief Society, Mexico City, Mexico There was a time when the tortilla held no special place in my cookbook. Now I wonder how I ever got along without it. It makes a base for a variety of palatable casseroles, and is the essential part of those delectable concoctions called tostadas and tacos. There was also a time when I thought the tortilla belonged to all Latin America. Actually it is a food product of Mexico and Central America. If you were to ask for a tortilla in South America, they would probably give you a Spanish omelette. A torta is a cake in South America—at least in Southern South America—and in Mexico it is a sandwich. By dropping the a and adding the illa, you get what Mexico uses as the staff of life, or the unleavened bread made from corn. Another food that usually goes along with the tortilla is hot chili. Hot chili dishes and sauces do not go much farther south than the Mexican border in the Americas. Each Latin country has its own particular method of preparing foods. The most southern countries, such as Argentina and Uruguay, are greatly influenced by European cuisine, since the people are mostly of European origin. And of all things! Chile doesn't know what chili is—at least the hot, edible kind—and in Spanish chili is spelled chile. Have you ever wondered why we in North America call Mexican food Spanish food? They are entirely different. Spanish food is paella (rice cooked with seafoods, and all things great and small), flavored with tomatoes, onions, bell peppers, and other seasonings. Mexican food is tortillas, beans, enchiladas, tamales, tacos, and the like, most of which you couldn't find in Spain if you searched from San Sebastian to Sevilla. Another interesting discovery I have made is that American - Mexican food, the kind you get in parts of the Southwestern United States, and the MexicoMexican food have very little in common. They neither look nor _ taste alike, although many dishes are called by the same names. Both are equally good, but very different. The latter is somewhat hotter! The following recipes have as a base the corn tortilla. You won't find them on the menu of any restaurant or in any cookbook, except a private one, because they are the result of attempting to please per- (Continued on page 462)