[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: A RINGING ADDDRSS. | Author: Unknown]

A RINGING ADDDRSS.

To the People of Salt Lake City:
	EVERY taxpayer is an investor, every
resident a shareholder in the government of
his city. All are directly interested in its
prosperity and advancement. Shortsighted
and selfish is he who makes any other in-
terest paramount to the public welfare;
desperate is the condition of any municipal-
ity where cliques or rings or incompetence
or partisanship control in official affairs,
and business methods become subordinate
to personal or political advancement. In-
dustry languishes, extravagance runs riot,
patriotism is repressed, the honest pride of
citizens dwindles and the people suffer.
	We hold it to be necessary to state, re-
gretfully yet plainly, certain facts with
reference to the condition of public affairs in
Salt Lake City. It is better to tell the truth
now, even at the cost of advertising our
misfortunes, than by concealment and in-
activity to rush swiftly to further sufferings.
	Heavy debts, increase of offices, large
salaries and consequent excessive taxation
have made the burdens upon the people un-
bearable. In 1890 the aggregate of taxa-
tion in Salt Lake City was eleven mills; in
1897 it is twenty seven and one half mills.
Even this enormous figure will not cover
current expenses at their present volume;
and when to this is added that the valua-
tion on which the assessment is made is in
many instances greater than the property
is worth, there will be hone to dispute that
Salt Lake City bears a burden heavier than
almost any city in the land. Depreciation
in values since 1890 has gone hand in hand
with increase in expenses; the ease with
which public money has been expended is
only to be compared with the difficulty the
people have had in supplying it. All things
considered, the statement is fairly suscepti-
ble of proof that taxes have increased more
than two hundred per cent during the seven
years, while the prevailing depression has
many times multiplied the difficulties of the
taxpayer. The load thus placed upon the
small wage-earner and home-owner has
been and is grievous to be borne; among
the poorer classes it has in many cases
amounted to virtual confiscation. Public
improvements which under a more conserv-
ative policy might have been prosecuted,
and thus furnished employment to many
people, have had to be postponed. Nor
have the poorer classes been the only suf-
ferers.  Investments have been discouraged

[Column 2]
because property, even where favorably-
situated, is able to return little more than 
the amount of the taxes; capital, naturally
timid, has not looked this way with favor;
and business men generally have felt to the
utmost extent the voracity of the tax mons-
ter which consumed so much of the profits
of their enterprise and toil.
	 For the present year the city’s income
has been partially anticipated and used—a
deficit exists, in the payment of which a
large portion of the current year’s taxes will
be needed that should properly go only for
next year’s necessary expenditures. In
addition to ordinary expenses, fifty thou-
sand dollars per year, commencing with
1898, must be raised as a sinking fund for
the payment of our municipal debt, which,
as a fitting climax to these financial woes,
may be announced as reaching the enorm-
ous sum of over $2,509,000. Besides all
other evils that come from this condition of
public affairs, the city is prevented from
doing necessary work in preserving and
adding to municipal improvements, the con-
sequence of which is that the city’s progress
is stopped.
	This is a gloomy yet a truthful picture.
Happily we believe a remedy and relief can
be had. The situation calls for the highest
patriotism; men of undoubted integrity and
business ability must be called to office, re-
gardless of politics and every other consider-
ation save the capacity for the duties re-
quired.
	We affirm it as a correct principle and
one that should prevail henceforth, that the
government Of this city should be taken per-
manently out of politics and put wholly on
a business basis. Party administration in
municipal affairs should be forever abolish-
ed. This is no experiment, no new doc-
trine. The best governed cities of the Old
World have made it triumphant, the larg-
est and most progressive American cities
are struggling successfully with the same
problem. The hand of the politician will
in the near future be shaken off in all muni-
cipal affairs, party polities in municipal
campaigns will have no place. Salt Lake
City should be in the front in this great re-
form. Its business should be managed by
business men of approved fitness and ex-
perience. Its servants and employees should
be selected for these qualifications and no
others, just as any private or corporate
business, of which the municipality is after
all but the larger counterpart. Every
shareholder has the right to demand this in
the one case as well as in the other; the
highest success and the best results can be
achieved in no other way.
	Therefore, we who have signed our
names to this address, affirm and hold to
these principles and declarations:
	That party politics have no necessary
connection with municipal management:
	That only such persons should be select-
ed for municipal office as are honest, effici-
ent and willing to devote the requisite time
to the public service, having no unneces-
sary deputies or assistants:
	Who will conduct public sffairs on econ-
omical and strictly business principles:
	Who will levy no higher taxes than are
absolutely needed for public expenses:
	Who will reduce salaries to figures con-
sonant with financial conditions, paying
only such compensation for public services
as would be paid in private business:
	Who will treat public trust as an honor
conferred, not an opportunity for privat gain.


We cordially invite the people of this
city of all parties, creeds and opinions to
join with us in this effort to establish an
efficient, economical, non-partisan munici-
pal government. In furtherance of this
effort we place in nomination the following
named persons to fill the various elective
municipal offices, to be voted for at the
coming election, pledging them our sup-
port and appealing to all patriotic citizens
to do likewise:
CITIZENS REFORM TICKET.
	Mayor—JOHN CLARK.
	Recorder—MISS JOAN SPRAGUE. 
	Treasurer—JOSEPH E. CAINE.
	Auditor—GEORGE SWAN.
	Attorney—PARLEY L. WILLIAMS.
	Police Justice—C. A. WOOLLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday, Oct. 2, 1897, President M. I. 
Horne presiding. Singing “Come, come
ye Saints.” Prayer by Sister Wright. Sing-
ing “Let those who would be Saints in-
deed.”
	President Horne was very sorry to see so
few here this afternoon but thought it was
owing to the near approach of conference.
Felt there were enough for a blessing and
said this was a trying time for the Saints,
that when we first came here to the valley
that was a trying time but the present time
was the more so. Now was the time to be
tested; now was the time to catechise our-
selves and look into our own hearts. Spoke
of the way we were being tried and perse-
cuted by extremely high taxes. She was
surprised that some of our people would
quarrel and wrangle over politics. We 
should ask our Heavenly Father which
course to take and trust to Him, and to go
to Him humbly and He would hear us.
Spoke in favor of the Non-Partisan ticket, 
said for years she had been in favor of hav-
ing a party that was non-partisan, and said
President D. H. Wells said that the women
were a power in the land. Made some ex-
cellent remarks on this subject. Felt if we
all who were here, though few, testified to
the goodness of God we would be blest.
	The minutes having arrived were read
and accepted.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder felt that President
Horne had dwelt on many precious subjects
especially that of praying for light on this
coming election. Spoke beautifully on
prayer, and said many times the feeling of
prayer would come over us and at the time
we might be busy, still she felt that the
thought ascended up to heaven and was
accepted. Spoke of the efficacy of prayer
in the case of President Woodruff’s daugh-
ter. Said many times our prayers were not
answered but when this was the case the
Lord would show us that it was better for
us not to have what we had prayed for.
Urged the sisters to fully trust Him, and
said nothing that comes to us would harm
us but would turn to blessings on our
heads. Referred to the vision that Joseph
and Hyrum Smith had when they saw their
mother home praying for them, at the time
when they had the cholera.
	Sister M. O. Brown spoke on prayer, said
she loved to pray and thought nothing
brought to her the comfort that prayer did.
Spoke on asking counselfrom those in
authority.

[Column 2]
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she had
enjoyed the prayer of Sister Wright which
was a sermon in itself, also the remarks of
our President. She had only just got
home from a trip in the country. Gave a
very interesting account of her trip in the
interest of the Relief Society work. Urged
the sisters to be humble and prayerful and
to be true to one another, thought it was
dreadful to have hard feelings towards any
one, but if such were the case it was our
duty to go to the person, or persons, and
make it right. Spoke of the duty of
mothers and urged the sisters to bear their
testimony.
	Sister Wright felt we should let nothing
come along to prevent us from coming to
these meetings. When she was a little
girl her father taught her to pray, and used
to tell her to never let the sun get down on
her anger for she might never see it again.
Spoke of a recent conversation she had
with a lady stranger, felt she had done
some little good in doing so. Rejoiced in
her Temple work and prayed she might
always remain faithful.
	Sister E. Webb felt Sister Wright had
given us very good advice about leaving
our household cares and attending our
meetings. Said many times she had left
dinner dishes as well as the wash tub to
attend her meeting because she felt it was
her duty. Felt sorry that there was so
much strife and division in politics as there
is, and spoke of the happy time we used to
enjoy when this was not the case. Spoke
on prayer and said there was nothing that
gave such comfort as going off by ourselves
and asking our Heavenly Father to help
us; also spoke of the anxiety that mothers
felt for their children and of the joy her
Temple work brought to her, said it help-
ed her to bear the burdens of life, for we all
had them. Urged the sisters to come here.
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt she had been
blest in coming here this afternoon, many
precious things had been spoken. Made
some very pleasing remarks.
	Sister Lizzie Decker said she felt she
must speak of the goodness of God to her,
and said she never could have lived if it
had not been that she could go to the Lord
and ask Him for help. Referred to her
Temple work and the benefit it had been to
her, also spoke of her anxiety for her child-
ren and asked the blessing of Heaven upon
us.
	Sister Frances Smith spoke of the faith
of her little grand-daughter who was very
much afflicted with scarlet fever, she said
she knew if they would send her name to
her Sunday school to be prayed for she
would be healed. This was done and she
was healed almost instantly.
	Testimonies were borne by Sisters Sarah
Phelps and Alice Woolley. President Horne
made some excellent closing remarks and
meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
	Singing ‘‘From all that dwell below.”
Benediction by Sister Lula G. Richards.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec’y.


