MADAME LYDIA VON F. MOUNTFORD Madame Lydia von F. Mountford. In connection with the rebuilding of Judea, our minds naturally go out to the great lecturer on Jerusalem, Mme. Mountford who died on the 22nd of March, 1917, in Lakeland, Florida, while engaged in giving her course of oriental lectures. Our readers will be interested, in hearing something about the woman who brought so much light and inspiration to us in these lectures, delivered twenty-five years ago, in this city. Madame Mountford came to Salt Lake City in February, 1897, and again in 1912, and gave a lecture in one of the Christian churches, which was heard by Dr. James E. Talmage, who was president of the Latter-day Saints University at the time. He was so impressed with the wonder and beauty of her work that arrangements were made for her 
 To deliver her series of lectures in the Tabernacle. His appeal was printed in the Deseret News and a committee came up from Provo to call upon Madame Mountford, and learn if she could be secured to repeat part, or all, of her lectures in the Brigham Young University. The committee found Madame Mountford in the Templeton hotel. As soon as she came in and met the ladies, she exclaimed: "This is the third time I have tried to come to Utah. Twice, I have been hindered by pressing calls eastward. Once, I got as far as Denver, and once, even, reached Colorado Springs. Now I am here, and I am so glad to see you." Questioned as to her especial reason for this remark, the Madame replied: "My father entertained the first 'Mormon' missionary who went to Jerusalem sometime in the early 40's. I was not then born, but I heard him speak many times about the young man who had told of a new American prophet and a golden Bible. He wanted to know more about it, and every time I hear your pedple mentioned, I recall my father's deep interest in that young prophet." The Madame remained three weeks in Salt Lake, giving her lectures in the Tabernacle, which was crowded every night, sometimes between nine and ten thousand people forming the audience. As a lecturer, she was unsurpassed; her voice was deeply resonant; her magnetism was dynamic, and her delivery was both simple and highly dramatic. Her lectures took up phases of the Savior's life, illustrating his parables and his life and death, by a group of people costumed in real Arabian and Jewish robes and turbans. These people were selected by her as she went from place to place, and immediately trained under the vitalizing influence of the Madam's unique personality. She thus illustrated the birth of the Jewish child; its first swaddling clothes; the anointing with oil; the circumcision; and the admittance at twelve years old into the priestly circle. The life of the child was typified from Abraham's day to the Savior's, as he sat in a circle with his companions, listening under the desert stars, or in the city synagogue, to the stories and traditions of his people. The parables were all acted out: the woman who had lost one of her wedding pieces of silver, and what it meant to her; the guests who were not provided with the wedding garment; the sower in the field with the mustard seed, and the awkward plow; the street calls, and the elaborate and varied salutations, of friends, neighbors, and relatives, as they pass on the street or meet around the water fountains in their unhurried journeys from place to place in the orient. Her costumes were perfect in detail, and when her assistants THE JERUSALEM OF TODAY. 
 MOUNTFORD IN HER RECITAL COSTUME BESIDE HER CABINET IN THE WASHINGTON MUSEUM. Were robed and decorated, they could scarcely be distinguished, as they were so changed by the oriental robes. The Madame was an artist to her finger-tips. One day the writer asked her why she used such long, unusual pins in arranging the costumes: "These, my dear, came from Jerusalem. It would be impossible for me to go on with my work unless every detail was in harmony and in place." There the real artist spoke. The Madame came to Provo, and delivered her lectures under the auspices of the Brigham Young University, to packed houses in the Provo tabernacle. Benjamin Cluff, who was then president of the University, arranged a series of lectures throughout the state, which were both financially and artistically successful. Crowds followed her everywhere. The simplicity of her manner added to the charm of her stately presence, and to her marvelous dramatic powers. 
 She was a great linguist. The German and French people to whom she talked marveled at her perfect control of their idiom and speech. Some doubting Thomas, brought to one of her lectures, a native Armenian, who spoke to her in the Arab tongue. He admitted to the friend who brought him, that her use of his own tongue was that of an aristrocrat, and far superior to the usage he had known as a peasant lad. The Madame took a great fancy to little Frank Gates, who was then three years old. She said he was born six weeks later than her only son who had died almost at birth, and with permission of the parents, she ieals the child with her, throughout her course of lectures. At their first dinner in the Knutsford hotel, she directed her secretary to look after the wants of the little boy. The secretary read the menu of the elaborate dinner, carefully to the child, and asked what he wanted. "Bread and milk," answered the child. When the Madame heard his reply, she laughed out loud. After the second course, however, she told the secretary to read over the various desserts on the card, and to allow the child to choose his own; "What will you have for dessert, Frankie," asked the young man. "Some more bread and milk, please,' and then everybody laughed at the surrounding tables. The child's bringing up was plainly apparent. He was country born and bred. The Madame's parents were of noble Russian birth. The father's name was Mamreov "from the plains of Mamre," as the Madame always interpreted the name. The father claimed descent by direct inheritance from Abraham. In his young days he joined with a group of eleven young men who called themselves, in secret, Ephraimites, and so successful was their preaching, after announcing themselves as twelve modern apostles of the Lord Jesus, that the Greek Catholic church took the matter up, and the young men nearly lost their lives. They were all banished from Russia. Mr. Mamreov remained in Germany a short time, as-he was related to the Von Finklestein family. His wife was of Russian nobility. Together, they went down finally to Jerusalem, as the young man felt there he could be at liberty to hold to his non-sectarian beliefs, and to be near the habitation of our Lord, Jesus Christ, when upon earth. Here then, five children were born to them, th oldest a son, B. A. Finklestein Mamreov who was born about 1840, and who was exceedingly brilliant and popular in Jerusalem, as a young man. He was employed in the American Embassy office when our United States Secretary of State, Seward, visited Jerusalem, in 1871. He and his youngest brother, Peter, who THE JERUSALEM OF TODAY. 75 was born about 1846, came over with Secretary Seward and the older son became the private secretary to Seward. A daughter was born in 1842, and died in 1896. Another daughter, Anna, who was born in 1844, died in March, 1920. Anna was the life companion of her mother and sister Lydia. Lydia, whom we call "Madame Mountford," was named, Lydia Mary Olive Von Finklestein Mamreov. She was born in Jerusalem on the first of May about the year 1848, In the year 1840, Mr. Mamreov got a charter for safe residence from the Jerusalem Turkish authorities and here he opened his home as a center where Christians, Jews, and Mohammedans might come and be friendly. The parents were exceedingly devout, and they lived out the Bible, day by day. Madame Mountford herself says that pilgrims, strangers, travelers, and merchants from every part of the world, were entertained in his household. Her father believed the English language would become the dominant language of the world, and for that reason, the children were trained in English as their home speech. They were all baptized in the English Episcopal church, but Lydia, from her childhood, played she was a preacher, and imitated the rector in his intoning of the rituals, yet the parents remained liberal in their spiritual attitude. The father often wished that Lydia was a boy, for he said that she had all the qualifications for a preacher of the gospel. He died about 1858 of Asiatic cholera. When eighteen years of age, Lydia decided that she wanted to be baptized in the River Jordan, though she had been sprinkled in infancy in the Episcopal church, at Jerusalem. When her oldest brother came to America, under the patronage of Mr. Seward, Lydia decided to follow him to the land of her dreams. Accordingly, she left Jerusalem, accompanied by her widowed mother and oldest sister, and joined her two brothers, B. A. And Peter, and the other sister, who had all three come over in 1870. A short time after her arrival in New York, one of the former United States consels invited her to speak in his church. Accordingly, she gave a lecture, which was listened to by Dr. Talmage and Reverend Henry Ward Beecher. Mr. Beecher, listened with his face all aglow, and led the audience in frequent bursts of applause. At the close of the lecture, he said to the young girl, "let this be your life work. You can do more to illuminate the Bible than preachers may do with their theology." She gave a series of lectures at Plymouth church, on the invitation of Mr. Beecher, and at once began her life work. In 1889, she returned to Jerusalem, and secured rich and original costumes and articles, with which to illustrate the text of her 
 Lectures. Costumes for thirty assistants were provided for, half for men and half for women. Eminently successful in the United States, she then went to England and created the same furore all over the British Isles, taken up by Dr. Joseph Parker, Dr. Spurgeon, and other great English preachers, she departed for Australia with a great farewell mass meeting held at Exeter Hall, at London, in her honor, at which Sir Charles Warren, head of the Palestine Exporation Society, presided. A beautiful Maltese Cross was presented to her on this occasion. She went to Australia under the management of R. S. Smyth, the renowned Impressio-manager. Lydia created the greatest sensation ever known in the colonies. Mr. Smyth, himself, made thousands of dollars out of this one course of lectures. Coming around by the way of India, she met an English government official, by the name of Mountford, to whom she was married. He soon lost his health, however, and for a long time was in a sanitarium in England. Madame Mountford, as she was now called, continued her work in Canada, United States, and all over the English provinces, and in the Chatauqua course she lectured for years. Until the year 1907, the Madame gave her lectures in costumes; after that she presented the costumes to the Washington Museum, where they rested for many years. Madame Mountford was baptized into our Church, when she was here, in 1897, but kept on with her regular lecture work, and finally died as has been stated in Florida, while delivering a series of lectures, at her summer home of that beautiful locality. Her sister, Anna, was a lovely character, a quiet, patient, noble woman, who ministered to her gifted sister, Lydia, in season and out of season and who gave up all the dreams and ambitions of her own life to center them upon her sister Lydia's work. All of the Mamreov family are dead. Anna, herself, died alone in a lodging house in Washington, two years after her sister's pathetic demise.. Intimately associated with Madame Mountford in her later years, was our Salt Lake photographer, C. E. Johnson, who accompanied the Madame on one of her trips to Jerusalem, taking many photographs, and sharing in many wonderful trips of interest in that delightful and historic country. It happened that Madame Mountford was in Jerusalem when President Anthon H. Lund, accompanied by Elder F. F. Hintze, went on a tour to the Holy Land. President Lund, on his return, told of the many courtesies extended by the Madame, and of THE JERUSALEM OF TODAY. 77 the love and fellowship in which she was held, in the ancient city of Jerusalem, as well as all over Palestine. The Madame has gone to her rest, and friends have not forgotten her wonderful earthly career, nor will she be forgotten in her heavenly abode. From the last letters written by Lydia's sister Anna Mamreov to Brother C. E. Johnson we herewith submit a few interesting paragraphs: "Last night's paper said that the English forces had taken Gaza, I have been praying that they may take all Palestine and Arabia. Then the people will be at rest. I believe that the English are the only nation who will not rob and exploit those longsuffering, unfortunate races. Syria will, of course, go to the French, when the Teutons and Turks shall be "broken in pieces like a potter's vessel. Do write to me; you can have no idea how it feels to be quite alone in the world without kith or kin as I am." "T know how glad you will be, so I am, that our loving and beloved Father has had mercy on Jerusalem and delivered it into the right hands through the British. We thank and praise him for his goodness." 'For a long time I have not cared to ever go again to Jerusalem, but now that the English will not, I know, try to make a mongrel, godless city of it, as all others would have done, I would like to see it again." Before her death Madame Mountford took all her Biblical collection out of the Washington Museum, and her sister Anna turned them over at Lydias's death to a Mrs. Nanette B. Paul, of Atlantic City, for a consideration. Mrs. Paul lectures in these costumes and may come west. The colonists of Melhamia have decided to plant Eucalyptus trees on the bank of the Jordan. The Jewish stone-hewers of Jerusalem, about 50 in number, are organized into a co-operative, to which the Zionist Commission had advanced a certain sum of money. The price of stone has risen during the year from twelve to sixteen piasters the metre, as a result of which the co-operative had earned a substantial profit. However, a great change in this trade is expected to take place, when a number of stone-breaking machines will be imported into the country by the "Haboneh." 
 "From Zion to Jerusalem."' Granddaughter of Orson Hyde. "Out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." Isaiah 2:3. As the people of Zion we are looking and following with great interest the actvities of the Zionists organization of America and Europe in the old and beloved Jerusalem. The work of this body, combined with the English governmental policies, is going to prepare the Holy Land for the return of that once flourishing race of God's chosen people, the Jews; that chosen people developed a civilization of patriarchal unity for four thousand years, but saw it decay, after the Crucifixion. Just how is Jerusalem to attain a place amongst modern civilizations which shall produce the highest, finest and best results? It will come first through internal economic, political, and social development. Water Rights—The American Zionists, at the present, are greatly concerned over the reported boundary settlement which might deprive Palestine of access to the waters of the Jordan, Yarmuk and Litany, and the water sheds of Mt. Hermon. Such a settlement, if it left Palestine out, would cripple the great project at the start. Dr. Wise, one of the prominent leaders of the American Zionist, says: "The whole economic future of Palestine depends upon access to the waters mentioned. They are for Palestine the living waters, and are not necessary to the Syrian country to the north, because that country is well watered and has better streams to utilize in Lebanon ranges, America is expected to THE JERUSALEM OF TODAY. 79 contribute a part of the means for Palestine's development, and we count upon Great Britain and France to meet the reasonable expectations and vital needs of a normal wholesome reclamation of Palestine." This statement of Dr. Wise shows the absolute necessity of first giving Jerusalem water privileges which will form the basis of her future development and to this effect the English government is pushing its plans in Jerusalem. Mr. Tokowsky, chairman of the Jaffa harbor committee, declares that the negotiations with a well-known European company of harbor-builders, for' the construction of the Jaffa harbor, were progressing satisfactorily that the company had sent its experts to examine the sites and modified the plans to suit the requirements of the public. According to the plan the harbor will be fair-sized with room enough for ten five-thousand ton vessels, and will be thirty feet deep. The harbor will be built by expert European workman, but an opportunity will be afforded for local Jewish and Arabian laborers to learn this trade, especially during a two-months' vacation, when European laborers will go to their homes. The actual construction will take three years. The plans have been drawn to allow of the extention and enlarging of the harbor when necessary without detriment to that which had been already constructed. Modern machinery and improvements will be introduced from the start. The government has also agreed to run a railroad from the port inland which will make the port of easy access. The railroad, already running from Jaffa to Ludd, has been widened. By this railroad Jaffa is now connected directly with Jerusalem and Haifa. Besides the general advantages, the new port and its connecting railroad will have an economic field, and it will also open up vast possibilities for the Jewish Exploration Society. We shall follow with close interest the excavations which will be made in the process of the harbor construction, Many relics must, in Mr. Tokowsky's opinion, be at the bottom of the sea, and are bound to come to light when digging is begun. In addition to the new proposed Jaffa harbor, construction on the Haifa harbor will be taken care of immediately. It is silting, and owing to the expense of dredging, an extension of the present jetty is being carried through temporarily to remedy matters pending the adoption of some scheme of proper harbor facilities. 7 Immigration of Jews to Palestine—The statistical record of the immigration department of the Zionist commission shows that economic improvement is being pushed by necessity and that development will result, even if not planned for. In the last ten months, six thousand five hundred Jews have &
 gone to Palestine, of whom ene thousand five hundred came by way of Constantinople, two hundred from Cyprus, six hundred frem Corsica, three thousand seven hundred by way of Trieste, six hundred by way of Kantara. Of this number two thousand five hundred were 'Haluzim,' of whom one thousand were employed in road construction. Three hundred skilled laborers have found employment in government departments. In all, fully eighty-five percent of the new-comers has found employment in the country, Natural immigration (immigrants who have come to join families who had preceded them) has commenced, and is a very hopeful sign of the assurance of permanency of residents. Housing Problems—With the great influx of immigrants Haifa has been overrun, consequently the housing problem is a serious one. However, the Jewish people are reported as being liberal and hospitable in taking into their homes the immigrants. Six large houses have recently been built adjoining the Technical College to help relieve the situation, likewise are the Arabs occupied in house construction. Now that the railroad to Haifa is in running order some enterprising citizens are making their homes in Acre and go to their business in Haifa. Quarantine Camp—In connection with housing improvements for the immigrants, a quarantine camp has been established in Haifa by the Public Health Department, which is so equipped that travelers will have accommodations during quarantine periods without paying the usual extortionate hotel rates. Telephones in Jerusalem—The installation of the telephone system, mainly for the business concerns, is making progress an assured possibility. With a well organized, efficient committee to look after each of these phases, in cooperation with the English government, the results should be none but the very best; especially since the assembly recognizes so clearly the importance of a well-founded. Stabilized, productive unit, which can be formed only by judicial distribution of the skilled and unskilled workmen into those coloujes which are in need of them. With an efficiency of organization and the firm determination that the Jews all over the world are exhibiting toward the development of their coveted plan of once more gaining a national home—there is no doubt that the prophecies of the old world, as well as those of our own dispensation, will find in this rebuilding ancient Jerusalem a living example of the truthfulness and power of God's ancient plans for his choicest people.