DIVERSIONS.
	A MOUNTAINOUS event—Andes election.
	A "BARBER-OUS custom"—Shaving off
the beard.
	SCOUTS OF THE PLAIN—Men who sneer
at homely women.
	A MODERN writer says one ounce of jus-
tice is worth a ton of theory.
	WHAT month puts on more airs and is
most aristocratic of any in the calendar—
March.
	A HORSE with more appetite than grace
ate up a Chinaman's pig tail in San Francis-
co a few days since.
	A NEW YORK paper speaks of a gentleman
who was quartered at a hotel but does not
tellus what became of the quarters.
	IF they would put the ladies on one side
and the gentlemen on the other side at a spell-
ing match, Quilp says one would know which
side to bet on.
	On asking a servant girl if the hired
man cleared the snow off with alacrity, she
replied:
	"No ma'am he used a shovel."
	THE power of love receives fresh illus-
tration in the case of a Montreal girl who
sold her new bonnet so that her lover might
buy a pair of skates.
	THE best defense of lying that we ever
read is the remark of Charles Lamb, related
by Leigh Hunt, that "truth is precious, and
not to be wasted on everybody."
	A MISSOURI woman who applied for a
situation as car driver, being asked if she
could manage mules, scornfully replied, "O
course I can, I’ve had two husdands."
	"JOHN, I am afraid you have been forget-
ing me," said a bright-eyed girl to her
sweetheart the other day. "Yes, Sue, I
have been for getting you these two years."
	A ROCHESTER flirt had an offer of mar-
riage the other evening and rushing to the
hall she called up stairs: Mother! am I en-
gaged to anybody now?"
	MISS Bancroft, the young lady who was
lately married to Count Tziecuzksi, has now
got a name which is the nearest approach
to the phonetic spelling of a sneeze that
has yet been made.
	"BIDDY," said a lady, "step over and see
how old Mrs. Jones is this morning." In a
few minutes Biddy returned with the infor-
mation that Mrs. Jones was seventy-two
years, seven months and two days old that
morning.
	"HALLOA, there, how do you sell your
wood?"
	"By the cord."
	"How long has it been cut?"
	"Four feet."
	"I mean how long has it been since you
cut it?"
	“No longer than it is now."
	A CELEBRATED writer gives the condi-
tions under which women of different na-
tionalities are fond of their husbands.
	A French woman if he is witty or chival-
rous. A German, for courtesy. A Dutch
woman, if he does not disturb her comfort
too much. A Spanish woman, if he wreak
vengeance on all who displease her. An
Italian, if he is dreamy and poetical. A Rus
sian, if he dispises all Westerners as barbar-
ians. An English woman, if he succeeds
in gaining favor with the court and nobility.
And an American woman is satisfied if he
has plenty of money.


[Column1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
	The EXPONENT is my favorite paper: I
realize how unfit I am to write, still as all
have been invited to do so, I trust I may
benefit myself, and I ask my kind readers
to be patient, and not think I write for no-
toriety; but because it is a duty and to me a
pleasure when my simple thoughts can do
any good even to one of the least. I take
great delight in reading our paper (if I may
be allowed to say our) and I really be-
lieve if the young ladies in Utah were to
read it more, and leave trash alone, fewer
would go to ruin. It makes my heart ache
when I realize how reckless and indiffer-
ent the girls are both in the cities and vil-
lages; I cannot see much difference between
the two places. They seem to think that
life is long, and there is plenty of time to
prepare for eternity. Though wherever
there has been Retrenchment Associations
organized it has caused them to reflect more
upon their duties as daughters of Zion.
Many girls every year marry those who
care not for God or man, and who cannot
save themselves, much less assist them in
the work of redemption. Do girls who
act thus realize for a moment what they are
doing? Some will say "I would rather
marry one of our faith, but then if I should
chance to love one opposed to it, I should
certainly be the wife of the one I loved
whether he were Gentile or Jew." "Relig-
ion" they say "should not interfere where
happiness and the heart are concerned," and
if one regards love as many do they might
be justified. Yet I am inclined to believe
that if such persons were to live prayer-
fully and humbly before our Heavenly
Father and keep the company of true saints
they would not be troubled with the fitful
passions formed for strangers. Love is pure
and holy and I cannot call this feeling love.
Love is an attribute of the Deity and is
rarely fromed instantly, and it can only be
founded on true merit, as I understand it.
Yet the name of this sacred feeling has
been substituted as an excuse for the most
unhallowed passion. Love would ever seek
to bless, not to ruin or bring disgrace.
Again some young ladies will say, "One
might as well marry a Gentile as an indiffer-
ent Mormon." I do not know that there is
any necessity of doing either. In the first
place, it is the duty of every woman to
be a saint herself, then if she is careful in
her choice, she may get a husband who feels
the same; and even should she be so un-
fortunate as to get one who is not worthy,
her motives were pure and she commits no
sin. When she acts in open rebellion against
the commands of her Creator how great is
her sin against herself, her children, and
the laws of God. The man to whom she
gives her life may be really an honorable
man, a good citizen possessing many good 
traits of character; still he is unworthy to
be the companion of a true-hearted daught-
er of Zion. Our friend "Beth" has advised
all, not to marry without love, and while I
readily endorse that advice, I would add,
be sure you know who you are loving and
what is the foundation of the sentiment.
Don't fancy you must marry one you have
no right to, because of this miscalled feel-
ing. Keep your heart free to recieve the
affection of the noble and just and remem-
ber that this sudden infatuation for a fascin-
ating appearance is not going to give you
future satisfaction and happiness. Then
dear girls, let us all try, (for I am with you
just as apt to go astray,) to be worthy our
profession, and no longer decieve ourselves
[Column 2]
by thinking there is plenty of time to re-
form. To-day is the time.
					MARY STUART.
	RICHMOND April 9, 1875.


