HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Clean Jewels.—Soap and water is the best
material for cleaning jewelry.
	To Improve whitewash.—A strong solution
of sulphate of magnesia gives a beautiful quality
to whitewash.
	To Clean Casks.—Rancid butter, pork, and lard


casks may be purified by burning straw or shav-
ings in them.
	Cork Cement.—Black cement for bottle corks
consists of pitch hardened by the addition of resin
and brickdust.
	To Clear Water.—A piece of alum as big as a
hickory nut will render clear a pail of muddy wa-
ter. Dissolve the alum, stir and allow the impu-
rities to settle.
	To Do Up Silk.—To make silk which has been
wrinkled appear like new, sponge on the surface
with a weak solution of gum arabic or white glue,
and iron it on the wrong side.
	To Polish Plate.—One ounce each of muriate of
soda, cream of tartar, and alum boiled in a gallon
of water, gives plate a beautiful whiteness.  Dip
the article in the mixture, remove, and rub dry.
	Good Glue.—A handful of quicklime, mixed in
four ounces of linseed oil and boiled to a good
thickness, makes, when spread on plates and hard-
ened, a glue which can be used in the ordinary
way, and will resist heat.
	To Stain Wood.—A good walnut stain for wood
is composed of water, one quart; washing soda,
one and a half ounces; Vandyke brown, two and a
half ounces; bichromate of potash, one fourth of an
ounce. Boil for ten minutes and apply with a brush,
either hot or cold.
	For Washing Calico.—To wash calico without
fading, infuse 3 gills of salt in 4 quarts of water.
Put in the calico while the infusion is hot, and
leave until the latter is cold.  It is said that in this
way the colors are rendered permanent and will
not fade by subsequent washing.
	For Washing Colored Cloth.—Before washing
almost any colored fabrics, soak them in water, to
each gallon of which a spoonful of oxgall has been
added. A teacupful of lye in a pail of water is
said to improve the color of black goods. A strong
tea of common hay will improve the color of French
linens. Vinegar in the rinsing water, for pink and
green, will brighten those colors, and soda answers
the same end for both purple and blue.
	Dried Apples.—Quite a number of "good things"
may be made from them.  For preserves, take
nice apples, soak them over night in rather more
than enough water to cover them; in the morning
boil them till soft, then add about as much sugar in
bulk as there was of the apples before soaking, and
cook until they look clear; season with lemon, or
add a few raisins when you do the sugar.
	For Pies.—Strain through a colander; sweeten,
season with lemon and bake with two crusts. One-
third dried sweet apples stewed with peaches are
an improvement to the peaches.  Dried apples
ought always to be soaked over night before be-
ing stewed.
	For Jelly.—Soak one quart of apples in four
quarts of water, over night, boil until the apples
are soft, strain the water off carefully and to one
quart of juice add a quart of sugar and boil it un-
til it jells.  If the apples are nice, you may sweet-
en them and they will do very well for sauce, es-
pecially if you have a little lemon to put in them;
but you can use apples for this that are not fit for
the table.  In looking over dried apples to stew,
throw all that are not first-class in a dish by them-
selves for jelly.


﻿THE first sweet flowers, that baby Susa's
hand had ever been permitted to command,
she pulled to pieces gently and with care,
she scattered them about, and here they
are! For tenderly the scented leaves we
took, and here secured them in a valued
book. And they are precious now and dear
to us, for Lina's little one arranged them
thus.  With her oft fingers, dimpled, white 
and small—She is the purest, sweetest flow-
er of all.	 						L.


