		FLORAL HINTS.

	ST GEORGE, UTAH, April 12th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT.
	As spring is likely now to put in a tardy
appearance, it is time the flower growers
were commencing work.  Now it is better
to have a small flower garden with a few
really nice flowers, than much garden and
few flowers.  So I will suggest, that each
take a small area of ground, have it well
prepared and plant with care. Water twice
a day or as often as the surface of the ground
becomes a little dry. Say take one square
rod of ground, make it properly level, get
the boys to bring on to this six wheelbarrow
loads or one wagon load of WELL ROTTED,
fine manure, and about the same quantity
of washed sand.  Spread evenly, then have
the ground spaded well and fine, thoroughly
incorporating sand, manure and soil together,
leaving no lumps. Now lay off the ground
and make shallow drills for the seeds, and
cover not more than a quarter of an inch
with dirt; then sprinkle along, about the
same depth of coarse sand—gently press
down, then with a watering pot keep the
ground moist to the top till the seeds are
up; you may need to give a little water two
or three times a day.  Pinks, sweetwil-
liams, antirrhimnus, canterberry bells and
most other perrennial plants do best to take
them up every spring, and plant them in
well fertilized and prepared ground, divid-
ing them when too large.  Pansies and vio-
lets require a half shaded position with
ground liberally moist.
	The smallest sized flower seeds will do
best sowed on the top of a pot of good earth,
and kept in the house until plants are well
up, and then transplanted.  Seeds of mig-
nonette and many other flowers will come
up much sooner if soaked in warm water
twenty-four hours, and better still when a
few drops of spirits of camphor are added
to the water.  Seeds of cypress should be
soaked in HOT water before planting. Nas-
turtian makes a lovely house plant. More
anon.					     FLORA.
	A DOUBLE flower is unnatural and will
take every chance to get back into its single
or natural state.  It is useless to try and
save seeds of double petunias, balsams, etc.,
for they will surely be single the next year.
—Exchange.
	STARTING DAHLIAS.—Among the many
things to be done as the season advances, is
the starting of dahlias. We start ours in
boxes by the kitchen fire, keeping very
moist; as soon as the danger from frost is
over, put them in open ground in a warm
situation; separate the tubers; do not have
more than one in a hill.  Have a good strong
stake to each plant and begin tying it when
quite young with woolen yarn or strips of
cloth. If your dahlia has more than one
shoot, select the strongest one; pinch off all
the rest; pinch all the side shoots up to two
feet from the ground; then allow one or
two branches to grow; mulch with fine
grass; have an old tub, save all the soap
suds and put it on daily and your flowers
will repay you for all your trouble.—Rural.
PERENNIAL PEAS.—Whatever else you
do in the garden this spring, do not forget
to plant a few seeds of Perennial Peas.
They do not flower the first season, but with
ordinary care in hoeing and manuring, the
plants increase in beauty each year.  They
are perfectly hardy, though a slight cover-
ing of coarse stable manure, put on in the
fall, gives them a good start in the spring.
	One variety in our garden is very pretty,
and its clusters of bright, rose-colored flow-

[Column 2]
ers are borne in great profusion in early
summer.  If no seed is allowed to mature,
you can be sure of finding some flowers for
bouquets throughout the season.
	The plants are easily trained in any de-
sired form, but a cheap and favorite mode of
ours is to surround them with hemlock
brush four feet high and set in the ground
so closely as to form a sort of circular hedge.
This can be trimmed evenly on the top, and
at first, is rather ornamental of itself; but
the leaves soon fall off, leaving a fine net-
work of branches to support the vines,
which are soon covered with a mass of rosy
bloom.—Ib.
	A STRAWBERRY grower states that to
two barrels of rain water he put one quarter
of a pound of ammonia, and one quarter of
a pound of common nitre, and with this so-
lution he sprinkled his strawberry beds
every night when blossoming. The result
was double the amount of large strawber-
ries to that just adjoining not so treated.
Try it.


For the EXPONENT.
			A LECTURE,
READ BEFORE THE YOUNG LADIES RE-
	TRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION, BEAVER, MAR.
	13th—75.
MY DEAR YOUNG FRIENDS:
	Permit one who has had a deep experi-
ence in the ways of life, to offer a few re-
marks on this interesting occasion. You
have assembled here to-day to celebrate
your organization into a band of faithful
laborers in the cause of truth and reform.
What greater step could you have taken in
the march of advancement and progression,
in the more perfect habits of life, and in-
terior powers of intellect and understand-
ing, than to form yourselves into a body poli-
tic, for the mutual regulation of your hab-
its, both social and domestic. Assimilation
in faith and practice creates union. This So-
ciety is denomiated "The Retrenchment
Association." The true definition of the
term signifies, co-operation of effort, to re-
strain any tendency to extravaganve, to re-
frain from what is impracticable in words
and deeds: inter-communion, harmonizing,
and agreeing to establish the most wise, pru-
dent, and refining intercourse with each
other.
	If as a Society you exist only in name,
where will be the influence of your excellen-
cy and beauty, which your friends have so
fondly anticipated? I could wish that your
habits of deportment might be so far supe-
rior to those who do not incline to unite with
you, that you could be individually recog-
nized. Let your dress be a medium be-
tween two extremes: always in good taste,
and of material accessible to all, never try-
ing to outvie each other in fashionable ap-
parel, but in affability and acts of kindness
let each one endeavor to be an example to
others.
	I know it would grieve the faithful sister
who presides over you, as well as others who
yearn over your best interests, were they
to see pride creeping in among you. I will
dare to believe that those whom I now ad-
dress have inherited a little sound common
sense from their mothers. That honesty,
integrity, humility, charity and love of
good order, are inborn principles in your or-
ganizations. Never be intolerant, and harsh
in judging. If some of your associates hap-
pen to fall under a different influence from
yourselves, and have ventured incautiously
on inadmissable ground, be not too ready to
condemn them, try by loving words to win


them to walk in safer paths. Perhaps their
parents and guardians have failed to exer-
cise a proper discipline over them. Never
try to appear affable in the presence of a 
profane man; were you to hear the name of
a kind earthly parent spoken of in a disre-
spectful manner, you would feel aggrieved,
should it not wound you more to hear the 
name of your kind Heavenly Father irrev-
erently repeated.  Shun infidelity as you
would the poison of asps.
	Lastly, cultivate the society of the good
and true, of both sexes. Remember this,
that prayer is as necessary to the soul, as
food is to the body, that you may grow in
grace and knowledge. 
