		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	COLDS.—Among all the preventives of
cold, we would recommend the thorough
morning ablution over the entire body, with
much friction.  It seems to prepare the skin
to resist changes of temperature.
	LEMON JUICE FOR DIPTHERIA.—Large
quantities of pure lemon juice as a gargle
for diptheria, is said to have been used
with success in the practice of M. Revillout
during a period of eighteen years.  It is
certainly very simple, and could not do
harm.

[Column 2]
	"WALKING.—A learned Dr. of Cambridge
used to tell his students to take good care
of the third milestone out of Cambridge—
to go around it every day to see that no one
carried it off.  While no man could expect
materially to alter his physical constitution,
it might be conserved and strengthened;
and chiefly by exercise, healthful food,
enough and not too much, and breathing
good air."
	BOILED WHEAT.—Take the finest wheat,
wash it in tepid water. Put it to boil with
five or six parts of water to one of wheat.
Cover close, and after it commences boiling
set it where it will barely simmer.  Cook it
four or five hours, or if hard it will require
still more time.  When done it should be
even full of water or juice, which thickens
and becomes gelatinous while cooking. It
can be eaten by itself or served with cream,
sirup, or milk.
	RULES FOR NERVOUS PEOPLE.—Avoid
working beyond your strength, responsibili-
ties or capacity, avoid all avoidable worries,
and unwholesome excitement or dissipa-
tion: seek the society of healthy, kindly,
sensible people.  Your occupation should
be useful, healthful and fairly remunerative.
Live as much as you can in the fresh air
without exhausting your strength.  Wear
light clothing, to allow the access of air to
the skin.  Take occasional Turkish baths.
Use vegetable food with your diet, and
while you partake of  food be surround-
ed by cheerful influences, and it will be
more likely to agree with you.
	EXERCISE FOR THE HEART.—An eminent
physician Dr. McCormac of Dublin directs
special attention to the danger of giving
too little exercise to the heart.  "To
those who labor under functional heart af-
fection, walking though not in excess, and
not too fast, or too far, over hilly unequal
surfaces; but swinging the arms unrestrained
by bond or stay in the open air is the best ex-
ercise of any.  This develops and strength-
ens the cardiac muscular fibers, and aer-
ates the blood; at the same time fat is spar-
ingly developed and coupled with cautious
and abstinent habits the heart's action be-
comes reliable, even, and equal to all life's
proper exigencies."
	EATING FRUIT.—Upon the quality of
fruit depends its value as food, both in its
ripening, and its being the product of
healthy parentage; we should not be satis-
fied with an interior second quality, when
the superior first class could be obtained.
Care should be taken also as to the method
of drying.  None but the product of a
healthy growth and matured development
can be sufficiently nutritious; such fruit will
be relished as no inferior kind could possi-
bly be.  The distasteful and comparatively
foodless should be rejected.  Cook it as we
may, experiment as we will, the results are
unsatisfactory. During the winter time,
the blood becomes more or less depraved by
the concentrated and highly carbonized
food, and fruit is needed as a counteractant,
to supply what the system demands for
health; sub-acid fruits relish best: and to the
natural appetite, "that which tastes best is
best."


