	ASSOCIATION OF THE 16th WARD—

	I am pleased to see so many present. We
have a mission to perform or we should not
be here. Are we trying to perform that
mission? We do not, any of us, know what
we can accomplish until we are tried, what
powers we possess until they are called in-
to requisition. I say to all my sisters, strive
to be great and mighty in doing the work
that God has given you. When I first en-
tered this church I made up my mind I
would never refuse to do any thing
that I should be called upon to do; and
at the organization of your society there
was one young woman who made the same
resolution. I asked her the other day if she
had kept her promise, and she answered
yes. Well, that young woman shall be blest
—the spirit of darkness shall not enter her
heart, she will be blest to do a good work in
the Kingdom of our God. Young sisters be
punctual in attending your meetings; moth-
ers help your daughters to come to meeting.
I know these meetings were organized by
the power of the Holy Ghost through Presi-
dent Young! The key will soon be turned,
and angels will again visit the earth. I
want to tell my young sisters a few things
that they can do in a united capacity; do
you know that you possess the power to in-
fluence the young men for evil or for good?
Do not depend upon your parents nor your
future husbands for salvation; there are few
young men now-a-days who will prove sav-
iors, you will have to go in groups, to the few
who are worthy. Joseph Smith said (and
he knew by revelation) that there were
more good women than men on earth; that
proves the wisdom of plurality. Girls, mar-
ry good, noble men. I don't care if they are


old men if they are men of God. It has
been said that our sons and daughters should
be prophets and prophetesses. Where is the
young lady or gentleman who dare to rise
up and prophesy in the name of God? I of-
ten think, as a people of God we are not
half so wide a-wake to our work as the spir-
its of darkness are to the work of opposing.
I am ashamed of the people of God in many
instances. It requires a firm will and a
strong determination to do right, to enter
the gate of Heaven.  Paul said the spirit
was made subject to vanity.  Do you realize
you have a work to do to help purify Zion,
and that it will take union to accomplish it,
and to roll on the Kingdom of God? Be
firm in your religious duties, seek after
truth, and don't mind making yourself look
conspicuous. The speaker then related a
vision seen by Bro. Solomon Angel of St.
George, given to him before President
Young started home from the south. She
continued, seek unto the Lord for wisdom;
there are prophets and prophetesses in our
midst, will the spirit not impart the same to
the young as to the old now as in the early rise
of the church? When I first joined this church
I could tell a sister or a brother when ever I
met one, but how is it now? I cannot tell
whether it is a brother, sister, Gentile, Jew,
or what ever. I should like to see the time
again when I could tell a sister when I see
her. Instead of our being a peculiar people,
we are drifting after the world. God's peo-
ple were a peculiar people.  I want to know
how many young ladies have stamina enough
to comply with the request I am going to
make. As Eve led out in the evil, why
should she not be the first in doing good"
President Young has forbidden his family
to indulge in round dances; now if you
make resolutions, adhere to them.  I think
you are trying to do right. I don't want
one person to vote unless she has stami-
na to keep sacred ther promise. These
round dances were originated by the adver-
sary to lead to evil. A vote was then called
for all who would not participate in those
dances to manifest it by the uplifted hand.
She then said God bless you who have voted!
And he will bless you. We have hundreds
of young ladies who have taken this vote.
We are living in the last dispensation, the
wheels of time are rolling on, the nations of
the earth are ready to break up.  Mothers
in Israel, I bless you. I bless my young
sisters. I say to you mothers throw an in-
fluence around your sons and daughters for
good.  It fills my heart with joy to meet
with you, and I would enjoin upon you to
meet together often—it is of the greatest 
importance. I am greatly interested in the
young people. The Bible says, seek first
the Kingdom of God—how many of us
have made it our first duty?  I will leave it
for each one to answer for herself.  Wake
up my sisters, myself as well, and let us be
Saints in very deed. God bless you, Amen.


