LITTLE FOLKS.

	A SCHOOLBOY has put on paper the fact
that he would 'rather be a little girl and
obey his mother than be a dog and obey
the moon."
	NOTHING will sooner tempt a bachelor to
abandon his resolution to marry than to
sleep in the adjoining room to a couple with
a colicky baby.
	THE reason a boy runs from his father, if
he can, when that relative is after him with
a strap, is that he would rather be chased
than chastened.
	"WHERE are you going?" asked a little
boy of another who had slipped and fallen
down on the icy pavement. "Going to get
up," was the blunt reply.
	A BAD little boy rubbed cayenne pepper
dust all over the back of his jacket. The
school ma'am thrashed him briskly, but dis-
missed school immediately to run to the
nearest drug store for eye-water.
	PA, has the world a tail?" asked an ur-
chin of his father. "No, Child. How could
it have one when it is round?" "Well,"
persisted the heir, "why do the papers say,
So wags the world,' if it has no tail to wag
about?"
	"DID any of you ever see an elephant's
skin?" inquired a teacher of an infant
class.
	"I have," exclaimed one.
	"Where?" asked the teacher.
	"On the elephant," said the boy, laugh-
ing.
	A VERY polite and impressive gentleman
said to a youth in the street.
	"Boy, may I inquire where Robinson's
drug store is?"
	"Certainly, sir," replied the boy, very re-
spectfully.
	"Well, sir," said the gentleman, after
waiting awhile, "where is it?"
	"I have not the least idea, yer honor,"
said the boy.


A CERTAIN New York boot-black has a
more lucrative income than some of the
leading business men, and it is said that the
cake and pie stand at the Postoffice is worth
more than any clerkship in that institution.
There is also said to be a news-stand in the
same neighborhood whose income is prefer-
able to many a distinguished city editor,
while the fellow who sells cakes and coffee
on another corner has realized sufficient to 
purchase a farm besides fifty or sixty thou-
sand dollars worth of real estate in Gotham.
Another man is growing rich by purchasing
pigs' feet at the slaughter-house for $1,25
per hundred and then turning them into
souse, for which he has a large and growing
custom.


