TAILORING ESABLISHMENT

	Realizing the importance of founding and
carrying out Home Industries, we (the ladies of
the Fourteenth Ward) have commenced a Co-
operative Tailoring Establishment in our Re-
lief Society Building. Our design is to be able
to fill orders for men and boys' clothing, on
short notice and at low prices. We also pur-
pose keeping on hand ready-made suits for
children. Those who are interested and de-
sirous of assisting in the great cause of Zion's
children becoming self-sustaining are respect-
fully invited to call or send their orders, as we
are confident our work will give satisfaction.
Mrs. S. Paxman, Superintendent, is an expe-
rienced and efficient tailoress.
	E. R. Snow,			S. H Wilkinson,
	M. I. Horne,			E. S. Taylor,
	W. East,				J. C. Richardson,
and the members of the 14th Ward Relief So-
ciety.


[Column 1]
			﻿HOME AFFAIRS.
	TWO SUICIDES have been committed in this
city recently, by a man named William Geehr
and a young girl named Jane Powell.
	HIGH WATER in the vicinity of Ogden, has
been threatening bridges and other near erec-
tions, with danger at least, if not destruction.
	THE OFFICE of WOMAN'S EXPONENT is re-
moved to the building known as Jos. A. Young's
office, corner of South Temple and First East
Streets, south of the Eagle gate.
	A LADY by the name of Jacobs, recently
died suddenly of heart disease, in this city.
She was a Jewess, and the funeral services
were conducted in accordance with the custom
of her people.
	TWO OF Salt Lake's prominent business men,
C. R. Barrett and W. C. Hendrie, who have
been enjoying for a short time the delightful
climate and exhilarating sea-breezes of the
Gold City of the West, lately returned
home.
	ON THE 14th inst, a free excursion to Lake
Point for the aged poor of the city is contem-
plated. The officers of the Utah Western Rail-
road have kindly proffered the use of cars for
the company free of charge, a band of music
will be in attendance and the committee will,
if possible, engage the steamer "City of Cor-
inne," that the party may have the luxury of a
short sail upon the Lake. Messrs C. R. Sav-
[Column 2]
age, Bishop Hunter and George Goddard form
the Committeee of arrangements.
	SOME OF our friends are deserving of thanks
for their thoughtfulness and promptitude in
already bringing and sending in subscriptions
for the fourth volume of the EXPONENT. We
would most respectfully remind others that one
issue after the present will complete the third
volume, and that subscriptions should be for-
warded as early as possible.
	IN CONSEQUENCE of the damage done by
high waters, no trains arrived from the East
for several days; hence, no mail matter was re-
ceived. On the evening of the 22nd, the first
mall since the 14th, was brought in. Trains of
empty cars have been sent east from Ogden to
bring mails and passengers which have ac-
cumulated on the line.
	SATURDAY EVENING, April 24th, a full and
appreciative audience composed the compli-
mentary benefit to Mr. John T. Caine. "The
Serious Family" was fairly rendered. Mr.
Caine acknowledged the compliment paid him
by a short and appropriate speech. The per-
formance contained a most humorous and in-
teresting variety, and reffects particular credit
upon the management. Laura Honey Steven-
son the talented vocalist is in town.
	THE ZETA GAMMA Society gave an enter-
tainment to a select company of friends on the
evening of the 23rd. of April. The members
of the society acquitted themselves creditably
in essays, select readings and declamations,
also in rendering a scene from "Henry the 
Fourth."  They presented Dr. Park with pho-
tographs of all the members, mounted on a
card, nicely finished and elegantly framed, as a
token of their appreciation of the interest he
had taken in their efforts for improvement.
The Dr. acknowledged the gift by a few choice
and appropriate remarks. Gov. Axtell and
Judge Sutherland, by request of the President,
each addressed the society, expressing their
sincere pleasure in witnessing such movements
as were calculated to be truly beneficial to the
minds and morals of the youth. The Governor
advanced some very excellent ideas upon hon-
esty, individuality and originality.
	MRS. MARGARET Mitchell in speaking before
the Annual Meeting of the Thirteenth Ward
Relief Society, April 22nd, expressed her grati-
tude to God in being permitted to meet with
her sisters again after her long separation from
them. She said she fully realized the power of
God which had sustained and protected her
during her absence, while journeying, in cross-
ing and re-crossing the ocean with so many
little children. She had often met with the
island sisters in the capacity of a Relief Socie-
ty; they were much more interested than the
sisters here who have all the advantages of
civilization, and of associating with those who
have the fulness of the priesthood. She would
like to see the sisters here manifest as much
zeal as those poor heathens, they enjoyed a full
flow of the Holy Spirit; yet they have no true
idea as yet of the object of their organization.
She felt while among them, how much she
might have accomplished if she had been gifted
with their language, then she would have truly
been what she desired, a missionary indeed.
The Hawaiian sisters walk for miles to these
meetings, to gather in groups and sit upon the
grass until all have arrived when they meet in
some house. They have also a general meet-
ing, and they enjoy themselves in talking about
Zion and how they would rejoice to come here.
She had often thought if they were here and
saw how slothful we were, they would hardly
realize they were in Zion. She had become
[Column 3]
much attached to them, for their kindness and
amiability, and for their integrity to the prin-
ciples of salvation.


