FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE aggregate appropriations for the next
year, as made by the retiring Congress, are
$175,504,205.  About $7,000,000 less than
for 1874-5.
	MR. and Mrs. Dearborn Prescott of Graf-
ton, aged 70, died on the 16th of February,
of pneumonia, on the same bed, and within
eight minutes of the same time.
	THE NEW YORK city debt after the deduc-
tion of all the temporary debt, the debt in-
curred on the assessment of betterments,
and of the sinking fund, is still $115,000,
000, or 10 per cent. of the valuation of the
city.
	DURING 1874, 59 centenarians and nona-
genarians died in New Hampshire.  Of this
number twenty-six were men and thirty-
three were women.  The oldest was 106
years, the youngest 90.  Four were upwards
of 100, and the average was 93.2 years.
	AN EAST Colebrook man has in his house
an old fashioned, straight-backed rocking-
chair, which has been in daily family use
for 104 years, without the basket seat ever
having been renewed, although it has had
one new pair of rockers put on.  Furniture
isn't made in that kind of style now-a-
days.
	PERHAPS the strangest valentine for the
year was that received by a young lady in
Troy, N. Y., who on opening a box which
came by express, found in it a cow's heart
pierced with a golden arrow of elegantman-
ufacture, set with jewels, and estimated to
be worth $75.
	John W. Currier, of Alton, is the possess-
er of a sleigh 103 years old.  It has a back
as high as an old fashioned one-story house,
and is roomy enough to have taken all the
human passengers in the ark for a sleigh-
ride.  It is in good repair, Mr. Currier hav-
ing just had it well painted.
	THE water in the flume of a grist mill at
Franklin froze in a solid block at one time
last winter.  The flume is six feet high,
eight feet wide and fifty feet long. An at-
tempt to thaw it out by burning wood was
unsuccessful.  The ice on the Merrimac
at that place was reported four feet thick.
	A TRAIN of cars on the Illinois Central
railroad encountered a flock of wild turkeys,
the other day, and they began to fly directly
in front of the engine.  The conductor sta-
tioned himself on the pilot, and, when the
train caught up with the flock, he seized a
22-pound gobbler by the leg.  The bird was
so strong that the conductor had the utmost
difficulty in retaining his hold of the en-
gine, but he finally conquered. Half a doz-
en other turkeys were knocked dead by the
smoke-stack.


At a recent wedding in Ohio, the minis-
ter was about to salute the bride, when she
stayed him with, "No Mister; I've give up
them vanities now."


For the EXPONENT.
