			PERSONAL.
	Attorney Gen. Williams tendered to the
President the resignation of his office Apr.
22d to take effect on the 15th of May;rumor
says Sec. Briston will be elected in his
place........John Harper Senior member of
Harper Bros. New York city died on the
evening of Apr. 22d, in his 79th year......
The report that the President requested
Sec. Delano to resign is said to be false......
Hugh Smith Carpenter, D. D. of San Fran-
cisco has been elected pastor of the Presby-
terian church at Washington D. C.......Au-
ditor Clinton of New Orleans has been sus-
pended from office during his trial......Mrs.
Rosetta E. Buckingham an able advocate
of woman's suffrage died March 23rd. aged
42, at South Glastonburg Conn.........Miss
Grace Anna Lewis of Penn. has been lect-
uring in Boston on Natural History......Rev.
Robert Colyer's popularity in Boston is
still increasing......Patrick O'Shea who mur-
dered his wife in March 1874 was hanged
in the jail-yard in St. Louis on the 9th. of
April.......E. S. Harney has tendered his
resignation as United States Marshal for
Washington Territory......Charles Tappan
the last surviving member of the anti-slav-
ery society died in Washington D. C. Apr.
9th, aged 70.....Vice President Wilson has
changed his mind with regard to going to
Europe.
			FOREIGN.
	Parliament in Italy has directed that capi-
tal punishments shall be inflicted within
prison walls......Single letter postage in
Mexico is 25cts.......Pius the Ninth, since
occupying the papal chair has created nine-
ty-nine cardinals—the total number at pres-
ent is fifty-seven......Cardinal Manning of
London is seriously ill with nervous pros-
tration......The British House of Commons
on the evening of the 19th. of Apr. dis-
cussed the Belgium question......The Rus-
sian Diet has passed the bill abrogating the
causes of the constitution which allow inter-
ference in affairs pertaining to religion....Mr.
Robert H. Elliot has published a pamphlet on
the condition of Hindostan as regards the 
British rule......John Jay U. S. Minister to
Austria has sailed for the United States......
Capt. Coyer, a gentleman and a distinguished
officer is said to be the greatest pianist in
Paris......The Emperor of Brazil proposes to
abdicate in favor of his eldest daughter the
Countess d'Eu.
			GENERAL.
	The Woman's Medical College of the
New York Infirmary held its commence-
ment exercises at Union League Hall the
first week in April.....A bill passed the
house at Springfield Ill. recently allowing
women to become notaries public........In
the Michigan University the report of the
whole number of students is 1,191. The
University Library contains 22,500 volumes
......The National Woman's Suffrage Asscia-
tion will hold their annual meeting in
Union League Hall New York May 11th,
1875.....At the centennial celebration of the
battle of  Lexington the churches in Boston,
Concord and Lexington were crowded.
Lanterns were hung out on the belfry by
the son of the old sexton who gave the
same signal to Paul Revere in 1775.....Mt.
Holyoke Female Seminary is going to have
a new building at a cost of $50,000......At
the California State University, there are
thirty-nine young women studying.........
The proceeds of the sale of Sumner's art
legacy is to be used for the purchase of
statues and bass-reliefs for Boston Art Muse-

[Column 2]
um......The Boston school-girls beat the stu-
dents of Harvard Universiny at a spelling
match in the Boston Music Hall......Of the
221,042 teachers in this country 127,731 are
women......At South Bend, Ind., a fire on
the 10th of Apr. burned a block of frame
buildings total loss $75,000, insurance 20,
000......In the New England and Middle
States, Apr. 13th, snow fell in some places
to the depth of nine inches......One thou-
sand emigrants went West on the 9th, on a
special train for California......Notice of ac-
tion has been given in the new six million
suit against Wm. M. Tweed......A new
stage line has been started between Walla
Walla and Wallula Oregon......Mrs. Mattie
Gaylord of Boston Mass. has recently been
lecturing in Oregon she is a lecturer of
some note both in England and the United
States.....The steamers to and from San
Francisco and Coos Bay will touch at Cres-
cent City hereafter until the first of Nov.


[Column 1]
