	CULTURE AND REFINEMENT.

	"The means that heaven yields must be embraced
	And not neglected; else, if heaven would,
	And we will not, heaven's offers we refuse

	What wonderful powers and capacities for
unlimited improvement our Creator has en-
dowed us with, and how little are they under-
stood or appreciated by the masses of mankind!
Children are born into the world, and develop
physically into men and women, receive per-
haps, an ordinary education, occupy a common
sphere in every day life, or society; and if they
so live as not to be guilty of any overt act
against the laws of men, and leave their name
upon the earth, fancy they have filled the mea-
sure of their creation. But is this the only
purpose for which we have been created in the
image of our Maker? Can we expect to receive
an exaltation with glorified beings, without
making any exertion for our own improvement?
We receive heavenly gifts and powers, as ele-
ments in our individual natures; they are sus-
ceptible of being cultivated indefinably. Were
they given us to be wasted or hidden away?
The Savior in his parable of the talents put to
usury, has clearly demonstrated this fact to all
intelligent beings; and yet many thousands
go on from day to day, in an idle search for
pleasure, or the gratification of material wants,
when above and around are the resources for
development in art, science and literature,
which require the agency of beings possessing
the highest and deepest cultivation.
	We profess to believe God has a definite pur-
pose to accomplish by calling us into existence;
but do our actions truly manifest a reverence
for the principles which we have espoused?
Can we go on wasting our energies, neglecting
our opportunities, and thoughtlessly trifling
with the advantages given us for strengthen-
ing, purifying and elevating our characters,

[Column 2]
and not be held accountable? We believe in
all things upon natural principles; then we
have a vast work before us to accomplish, and
we should be diligent and untiring in our ef-
forts to live purer, better and more exemplary
lives.
	It cannot be done without thoughtful care
and study, we cannot borrow it all from books,
or copy it from others. But we must ourselves,
train every faculty we possess more carefully,
and seek more watchfully to guard against evil
influences and tendencies, than we should
watch the growth and cultivation of the most
delicate and sensitive plant.
	The tastes, affections, sentiments, feelings and
passions, every gift and quality that is inherent
in our characters, are susceptible of an unlimit-
ed development and refinement; but it must
be a life-work; it can not be done in a day or
an hour, or by adopting any system or code of
etiquette, morals or manners. And yet, it is
by and through these means, the world is apt
to judge those enriching and ennobling charac-
teristics, which stamp perceptibly the carer of
one possessing the truest and widest enlarge-
ment of moral, mental and spiritual develop-
ment.
	If we but carefully try each time we do any-
thing to do our best, and pray for the guidance
of the Holy Spirit every day and hour, we shall
not fail in our attempts to acquit ourselves
honorably and creditably, in whatever position
we occupy. We are laying the foundation of a
future, which will be illimitable. And in view
of this, ought we not to awaken to an instant
and vivid consideration of the significance of
the object of our attainment?
	Shall we shrink from any responsibility im-
posed upon us, by the age and time in which
we live? Not by any one individual can the
purposes of God be accomplished; it is the
problem of humanity, and in our own hearts
is the temple where we must commence; call-
ing into exercise every faculty of our higher
natures; and if each one interested in the work
of progression, would by the interchange of
ideas, sentiments and sympathies unfold their
highest aspirations, open their deepest living
fountains, and strengthen each other in the
great, grand and mighty work, of refining and
perfecting, they would thereby secure the
greatest happiness, and erect for themselves
and those who shall follow in their footsteps,
the loftiest standards for emulation.
	An innate and true refinement of individual
character, will be essential in fitting us to
mingle and participate in the society of exalt-
ed beings; and those who anticipate being the
recipients of a glorious reward for their sacri-
fices here, and yet waste the time, means and
opportunities, at their free disposal, with no
fixed pupose in view, but to enjoy the luxu-
ries of living, to the fullest extent, will assur-
edly meet with disappointment; and in the
final judgment, the talents they have hidden
away, will be called for and given to those who
have been the most faithful in the cultivation
of the infinite attributes of the soul.
					E. B. Wells B. B.


