R. S. REPORTS.
		FARMINGTON, March 18th, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking in quite time that
some one of the sisters should write and let
the readers of our valued EXPONENT know
how we are getting along. We meet every
two weeks; although our business operations
are small, we try to encourage one another
in the good work in which we are engaged.
I feel as one of my sisters has said that we
need a great deal of charity one toward an-
other, we are all so differently constituted;
I feel that the strong must bear the infirmi-
ties of the weak, and try to encourage them
by mild and gentle words, and by perform-
ing little acts of kindness towards them.
Our Young Ladies' Association is getting
along well under the good management of
their president, Sister Lucy Clark. I feel
thankful that we have the privilege of be-
ing organized into Societies and Associa-
tions, for they are calculated to be a great
benefit to us if we enter into them with
the right spirit. I pray God our Heavenly
Father that His blessing may rest upon all
that are striving to do His will and keep
His commandments. I have been a con
stant reader of the EXPONENT from the
first, and am happy to say that I find it
steadily improving; I should be lost with-
out it. If you find this worthy of a place
in the EXPONENT please insert it.
					S. J. HOLMES,
			President Relief Society.
		EPHRAIM, SANPETE CO., April 4th.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Ephraim Branch of the Relief Socie-
ty held their Yearly Meeting on Thursday,
April 1st, 1875, being six years since our or-
ganization which was on the 1st of April,
1869, by Bishop Canute Petersen. Presi-
dent Mrs. S. A. Petersen, thanked the sis-
ters for their willingness to respond to the
calls made upon them. The yearly report
showed that the sisters had donated seven
hundred and ten dollars and fifty-three
cents. Three hundred of which, having
been donated in Sunday eggs, will be sent
to Denmark to assist the poor in emigrating
from the old country. The poor at home
have been assisted according to their needs.
[Column 2]
	The donations of the sisters are seldom in
money, that being a very scarce commodity
here, but in eggs, butter, pork and cheese,
which are sold to the best advantage, also
remnants and scraps either cotton or woolen,
which the sisters make up into Quilts;
some are sold, some loaned to the poor dur-
ing the winter, four were made for the
brethren who went to St. George, to work
on the Temple. The amount of cheese made
was 766lbs., 80lbs. of which were sent to the
Temple at St. George. The sisters are uni-
ted. We are blessed in having a good and
wise President, Sister S. A. Petersen. We
wish to express our indignation and thor-
ough contempt for the man (?) who commit-
ted such an outrage on our beloved Presi
dent. Probably he was not shrewd enough
to see it was only making President Young
doubly dear to us. It is but another bond
of union between Brother Brigham and the
Saints. A crown of glory for the gray hairs
of our Prophet. Whom may God bless
forever.
		With respect, your sister,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG,
							Secretary.
	GRANTSVILLE, TOOELE CO., April 13th.
DEAR EDITOR:
	By request of President M. A. Hunter, I
send a report of our Branch of the Relief
Society.
	Secretary's report for the year ending
April 1st, 1875:
	To St. George Temple,......$ 40 00
	To Emigration Fund,.........   91 18
	To the Poor,.......................   66 42
						  $197 60
	Balance in Treasury,.........    54 49
				Total,.........$252 09
	None have been neglected who have been
in need of the necessaries or comforts of
life.
	At our last meeting there were present
by invitation, Bishops Rowberry and W. G.
Young also Elder Wm. Leem our excellent
Sunday School Superintendent. Bro. Young
said he felt like attending R. S. meetings[-]
he did not believe that women were only to
be looked at. Said the sisters were doing
what President Young had failed to do, in
putting down round dancing. That the
Retrenchment Society was helping. He
felt the sisters would be a blessing in help-
ing the brethren to bring about a reforma-
tion in drunkenness. Spoke of the store
Sister Snow and others intended to estab-
lish in S. L. City for the sale of home manu-
factured straw and millinery goods.
	Bro. Lee commended the excellent order
in which our secretary, Mary Cook, kept her
books. Advised the reading of good books.
	Bishop Rowberry spoke very encourag-
ingly and gave the sisters excellent advice.
Said he always felt to sustain the Society,
was glad the young ladies were willing to
assist the brethren in putting down round
dances, to say the least the immense strain
on the system was very injurious to the
delicate structure of the female form, Ad-
vised us to do as little harm and all the good
we could.
	The members of the Society manifest an
excellent feeling.
					CORRESPONDENT.
	At the Semi-Monthly meeting of the Sen-
ior and the Junior Co-operative Retrenchment
Association, held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Apr. 17th, 1874, Counsel-
or Mrs. Zina D. Young presided; President
[Column 3]
Mrs. M. I Horne being absent on a visit in-
to the country.
	After the regular exercises and the read-
ing of the minutes by the different secreta-
ries from the various wards, Mrs. Zina D.
Young addressed the congregation upon
HOME INDUSTRIES, the course necessary to
be pursued in order to sustain them, encour-
aged all to be energetic in these matters.
Counselor Miss E. R. Snow followed, speak-
ing upon punctuality; the cultivation and
practice of it; gave a brief sketch of the adja-
cent settlements,the pleasure she felt in the
progress they were making,called the atten-
of those present to her bonnet, which
was made and presented to her by the la-
dies in Ogden, and of which she felt truly
proud: spoke in regard to sustaining do-
mestic productions, remarked that had it
not been for the increase of faith, union, hu-
mility, zeal and energy which had been the
result of these organizations it would have
been more difficult to lead out in the direc-
tion now indicated by President Young.
Counselor E. Howard bore a strong testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, especially
the order of CELESTIAL MARRIAGE.
	Counselors E. P. Snow and Zina D. Young,
and Mrs. E. S. Barney each spoke on the
measires now being taken to sustain the
HOME INDUSTRIES and showed some speci-
mens of flowers collars stockings etc. of
home work.
	After the close of the meeting, some la-
dies were introduced, who were strangers
here, travelers on their way home from
California; they manifested a warm interest
in the movements of the people here and
wished them success.


