[Vol4 | June 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. James H. Anderson. In Russia, under the new form of government; women and men are to have equal elective franchise privileges. 119 ships in American ports were taken over by the United States at the breaking' off of relations with Germany and Austria, in April. Aliens from either Germany, Austria, Bulgaria or Turkey, in the United States, have been required to surrender all war weapons until peace is declared. Congress passed a law for a seven-billion dollar bond issue, and the same week the U. S. Government loaned Great Britain two hundred million dollars to aid in the war. Austria, then Turkey, broke with the United States when the latter announced a state of war with Germany, though there was no real necessity therefor except to comply with German wishes. Special commissions of high dignitaries came from Great Britain, France and Italy to the United States, during April, to confer with the administration here relative to the conduct of the war. The first U-submarine sunk by an American boat was that to which one shot from the Mongolia, an armed freight ship, brought final disaster, while the submarine was maneuvering to torpedo the great liner. The U. S. agricultural department has issued a series of bulletins on "how to grow potatoes," while numbers of farmers have replied, asking the experts to demonstrate their theories by actual farm work. Bread prices in Salt Lake City in April reached fifteen cents per pound-and-a-quarter loaf, or twelve cents per pound; in London, England, it was lid. per four-pound loaf, or five and onehalf cents per pound  both loaves made from American flour. 
 Mexico might have been a good base for Germany to make <;n advance into the United States, if it were not the fact that the British fleet prevents the Germans from getting into Mexico with any considerable force. An incendiary fire and explosion at Eddystone, Pa., caused the destruction of a big munitions plant there, the loss of 112 lives and the injury of 121 other persons, in April, as the first 5-erious event in this country following the declaration of war with Germany. Norway fears to cease selling nickel to Germany lest the latter will make an attack on the basis of Norway's being unneutral. At the same time, the nickel is used in making torpedoes with which 420 Norwegian ships already have been sunk and 450 Norwegian sailors killed. Conscription of youths between 19 and 25, for the U. S. army, has been the great war question in Congress. The objection to the system is that it takes for army training mere youths, at a time when their moral character is more liable to injury from the associations there than at any other period in life. Equal suffrage for women with men in Great Britain, has been promised by the British premier. David Lloyd George. He assumes this attitude on the question by reason of the patriotic services of the women there during the great war, and not because of any suffragist agitation. The U-Boat policy of Germany has been a success in at least one respect  that of bringing a declaration of war from the V. S. on the morning of April 6, this being followed by similar action on the part of Brazil, Cuba, and other heretofore neutral nations. In Palestine the British forces have made notable advances west of Jerusalem; and the Mesopotamian expedition has advanced 100 miles beyond Bagdad. This makes it appear that the redemption of the Holy Land from Turkish rule may be an event of 1917. The European war has undergone considerable change on the western front, by British and French successes in great battles during April. But the Germans have an even stronger line than now, along the Meuse in France and Belgium, if they should be driven back to it; therefore these successes by no means indicate a near ending of the war.