State Welfare Workers Meet By Julia A. F. Lund.
The Utah State Conference of Social Workers, in conjunction with the American Red Cross Regional Chapter Conference, was held at the Newhouse Hotel, Salt Lake City, Thursday and Friday, October 1 and 2, 1925. It was most gratifying to observe, that at this, the first conference of the organization in the state, so many people with kindred enthusiasm. And the same purposeful spirit in the work, were assembled. Social workers employed by private agencies, schools, civic groups, the state, the Federal Government, and religious denominations, were represented. The Relief Society was justly proud of the large number of its workers present.
The opening session began with a short address of welcome by the conference president, E. J. Milne, who briefly discussed "The Conference Movement." Gov. George H. Dern followed with a very happy expression of hearty approval of the movement and of sincere desire to cooperate in the great social work so manifestly needed in Utah. He said that crime was the heaviest expense to the people, and he urged a campaign of education with prevention, rather than correction, its aim.
Rev. John E. Carver gave one of the most eloquent and inspiring addresses of the conference, on the subject, "The Spirit of Social Work." It was a most powerful plea for human fellowship. "The Goitre Survey in Utah," by Dr. James Wallace, completed the first meeting.
The joint luncheon with Red Cross on Thursday was a very profitable as well as enjoyable event. The outstanding feature of this was the very able discussion of "The American Red Cross in Time of Peace," by A. W. McMillen of the National Red Cross.
On Thursday afternoon the Red Cross Regional Chapter Conference met for its first session. "The National Red Cross as it Functions in Disasters," was treated by Miss Maria Johnsen, Field Representative for Utah and Nevada. "Duties and Place of Organization of Local Preparedness Committees" was discussed by Miss Kate Williams of the Salt Lake A. R. C. Mrs. J. G. Falek of Weber county A. R. C. closed the session with a comprehensive talk on "Organized Volunteer Service," and the utilization of this service in the peace-time program of the Red Cross.
The Thursday afternoon session of the Social Service Workers was particularly interesting. The subjects were vital and were treated by experts in their various lines. "Public Institutions and Agencies" was the main topic divided into "Juvenile Court in the Rural Community," presented by Judge Arthur Q. Nielson. "Woman's and Children's Labor Conditions in Utah," by Mrs. Irene M. Fowler, and "The Unemployment Problem," by Nephi L. Morris.
The evening meeting of the conference was given over to a discussion of "The American Indian," by Mr. John Collier, of California. Mr. Collier has given all his time to a study of the subject, and he presented many interesting and startling facts relative to the Indian. It is his hope to challenge the conscience of the American people to serious and proper consideration of the cause of the Indian.
Friday morning was a joint session with the Red Cross, and was one of the most interesting of the conference. The program itself suggests this: "Community Organization," by A. W. McMillen of the National R. C.