Tennyson, the Boy and the Match This incident from the pen of Annie Pike Greenwood, will prove of interest to our readers; it is the same class of material that has made the autobiography-of Edward Bok so interesting. Sagebrush grows almost up to the door of our high school building, and where there is no sagebrush, it is black sand. In this building every day I teach the Class in Perfect Enjoyment. On the daily program it is listed as "Literature," but my fifteen pupils and I know better. We read and discuss for an enchanted period, ignoring the fact that we are running over into the penmanship time, and when the instructor of that course appears suggestively in the doorway, the Class in Perfect Enjoyment unitedly and emphatically shooes him away with gestures of dismissal. In consequence of this, I fear that the class will become literary critics who will be forced to use the typewriter in order to make themselves decipherable. One day last week while we were studying Tennyson, Verna raised her hand, and announced, "There is a man in Rupert who has seen Tennyson." Her words made something of a stir in the class. We are prone to think of our super-men as dead beyond living remembrance TENNYSON, THE BOY, AND THE MATCH 663 Rupert is five miles from our schoolhouse. I saw the expression of incredulity on the faces before me. How could any citizen in the little, new, western, progressive town ever have touched such old-world greatness? If such man did exist, he must be doddering on the edge of the grave. Then I drew their attention to the date of Tennyson's death. And assured them that when I made a trip to Rupert I would seek the man in question. Today I called on the Reverend B. C. d'Easum, the man who saw Tennyson. He is the minister of the Episcopal church, at Rupert, a charming and cultured man, with a wife who is his counterpart. He smiled when I told him what I had come for. "It is true, but the incident is quite trivial. It was at the time that Tennyson was making his home on the Isle of Wight. My father was a curate there, and he had a collection of brass plates which they used to rub on the tombstones of the Crusaders to get impressions. Tennyson was interested in these plates. "One day the news was revealed to me that the great man was to dine with my father. I was just a little boy, and, of course, was not allowed at the table. But I was determined to catch a glimpse of the writer whom I admired so much. "After dinner, Tennyson and my father walked in the garden, and I went darting from one hiding place behind a shrub to another hiding place behind another shrub, my boyish eyes photographing the handsome figure in its broad hat with flowing hair and picturesque beard. "Suddenly I was galvanized by his voice unmistakably addressing me, hidden as I thought I was. 'Boy, come here!' "I went at once to him with trepidation and a sense of elevated expectancy. I would not have been surprised to have heard him begin some recitative from 'The Idylls of the King,' or 'Maud,' or at very least, 'Break, Break, Break.' "There was an instant of solemnity, followed by the words. 'Boy, go to the house and get me a match!' "T got the match and brought it back to him. That was all. So you see it doesn't amount to anything." Mr. d'Easum smiled, deprecatingly. "I disagree with you," I said, "it transforms Tennyson from a mythological hero to a human entity." "Tt does serve to link the present with the past,' he conceded. Next Monday I shall go to school, and with the aid of a boy and a match I shall be able to make an unforgettable picture of Tennyson for the Class of Perfect Enjoyment. We shall see him strolling through the curate's garden in his broad-brimmed hat, hair flowing, picturesque beard,?and, yes, I suppose there must be a little urchin darting from shrub to shrub and peering out admiring at the heroic figure. Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) THE RULERS OF ISRAEL THE MOSAIC DISPENSATION (continued.) A. The Judges. Israel, or the People of God, lived under three types of rulership. After the death of Moses, the prophet, the seer, the revelator and the lawgiver, Israel was led by Judges of which there were seventeen. The first Judge was Joshua, the leader; the last Samuel, the prophet. The government under the Judges covered a period of about 400 years. The division of the conquered country among the twelve tribes tended to lack a common interest, which made national! Strength something that was one of the hopes of Israel. In their march of conquest they had developed a thirst for power, sufficient, at least, to make them safe among nations who hated them, but feared "the God of Israel."" They were quick to forget that their source of safety was the Lord. Then some of the Judges showed the weakness of unwise indulgence of their own children and thereby invited iniquity. Eli, once a valiant leader. Failed to demand of his sons standards of life fit for official positions. See I Sam. 2:24-31. The last Judge of Israel tolerated in office sons whose conduct contributed to the decision of the people to call for a change in governmental affairs. (See I Sam. 8:1-8.) B. The Kings. During the Mosaic dispensation. The Covenant People had three kings who ruled over all Israel. Then came the separation of the tribes, about 950 B. C. One division, composed of ten full tribes and part of another tribe set up a kingdom known as the Kingdom of Israel, with the City of Shechem, in Samaria, as their capital. This kingdom was ruled by twenty-one kings, and it lasted two hundred and thirty years. It was broken up by the Assyrians who carried the ten tribes off as captives of war and scattered them, Jest they should re-unite and make trouble for the Assyrian government. It is said that 30,000 were thus disposed of. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 665 The other division known as the Kingdom of Judah, made up of the tribe of Judah and part of the tribe of Benjamin, held Jerusalem as their capitol. The Kingdom of Judah held place as a recognized government for about 365 years, during which time twenty-two kings ruled, when it was broken up by the Babylonians who plundered Jerusalem, destroyed the temple and the royal palace and carried the people into captivity. C. Various Governors. After the Babylonian captivity Judah never came into political prominence; its nationality was broken. The people were ruled by some foreign power or were under the protectorate of some strong nation. During this period, independence was unknown to the people of God. They had no real freedom of nationality. Their military career was one, first of conquest, and then of captivity. They were looking for a deliverer of the war type and not for the Prince of Peace. D. The Three Kings of all Israel. 1. Saul. (a) His calling. "Tsrael would have a King." Samuel complains about their ungratefulness, and the Lord advised and warned against it. See I Sam. 8:4-22. The people, by putting their wish against God's wisdom, broke the first of the ten. Commandments. The Lord chose them a king after their own heart. Saul was pointed out by the Lord; (See I Sam. 9:17.) He was annointed by Samuel; (See I Sam. 10:1), he was "given a new heart"; (See Sam. 10:5-9), he was accepted by the people. (I Sam. 19:25.) (b) His Reign. Saul was a man of orders rather than one of obedience. (See I Sam. 15:22-26.) (c) Lessons from his Life. From his life may be learned many lessons, prominent among which are: 1. That obedience is the most acceptable offering man can bring before God. (See I Sam. 15:22), 2. That the Spirit of the Lord brings to the front our best possibilities. With the Spirit of the Lord, Saul was a prophet; without it, he was a madman, a murderer at heart. 3. That good music is attractive to the Spirit of the Lord. (See I Sam. 16:23.) 2. David. (a) His Calling: The Lord had promised Samuel that he would select for a king a man after his own heart. Samuel anointed David King 666 THE of Israel under the direction of the Lord who sought a man after his own heart. (b) His Theological Contributions. 1. An unbounded loyalty to the Lord's annointed. (See I Sam. 24:4-6.) 2. An undying trust in God, "Thou will not leave my soul in hell." (See Ps. 16:10.) 3. His psalm?Sermons. "The fool hath said in his heart, there is no God." (See Ps. 14:1.) 3. Solomon. 1. Successful seeker for wisdom. 2. An unsuccessful seeker of happiness. (See Ecclesiastes.) This short book is an epitome of Solomon's life; it may be read with profit once a year. 3. A philosopher. The proverbs of Solomon are household words and the guide of statesmen. 4. A poet of lasting fame. (See the Songs of Solomon.) Questions and Problems 1. Name the three classes of rulers that followed Moses during the dispensation. 2. Give the number of judges and of kings that ruled during the dispensation. 3. What were the causes that led to the clamor for'a king? 4. Give in brief the Lord's warning concerning the Israelites having a king, 5. Tell of Saul's getting a new heart. 6. In the light of Sam. 16:22 discuss the salvation value of good music. 7. What is the most valuable lesson to be learned from the life of Saul? 8. What, from your point of view, were the characteristics of David when he was annointed king that made him a man after God's own heart? 9. Speak of David's loyalty to the Lord's annointed and his undying faith in the Lord. 10. Quote three theologically helpful memory gems from the Psalms of David. 11. Prove Solomon's success in his humble and prayerful search for wisdom. 12. According to the words of Solomon-as recorded in Ecclesiastes what are the two worth while things to do? 13. Quote three of what you consider to be the most helpful proverbs of Solomon. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 667 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in February) TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR FEBRUARY Home Talk on Washington and Lincoln "Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime; And departing, leave behind us, Footprints on the sands of time." ?Longfellow. 1. The traits of character which made these men great: Honesty. Courage (moral and physical.) Reliability. Sense of justice. Faith in God. Desire to serve mankind. Sympathy for oppressed, etc. 2. Suggested stories to tell to illustrate these traits of character. Gordy's American Leaders and Heroes contains many stories. Also any biography of Washington or Lincoln contains stories which illustrate the fine qualities of these men. The Perfect Tribute, gives an idea of Lincoln's character.. 5 3. Teacher select two stories to tell in homes she visits. (One about Washington, one about Lincoln.) 4. Suggest time for discussion of these men. (Dinner hour, bed time, home evening.) 5. The suggestion of the Church regarding these great men. That they were divinely called and inspired to do their work, OAROOAW > 668 THE