[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | December | Issue: 5 | Title: BE A MORMON.” | Author: Unknown]

		BE A MORMON.”

	(Written by special request and read at
Womens’ Clubs in New York.)
	“Pure religion as taught by Jesus Christ
is a life, a growth, a divine spirit within,
coming out in love and sympathy and
helpfulness to our fellow-men.”
	I realize that my subject is a most deli-
cate one to write upon, knowing as I do,
how “Mormonism,” so-called, is looked
upon by those who are unacquainted with
the people called “Mormons.” What-
ever I may say must be from my point of
view, and will assuredly be in accordance
with facts, largely of my own personal
knowledge, and wholly on the woman’s
side of the question, according to the title
given me.
	What the world terms “Mormonism,”
we call the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which
our Savior says is “the power of God un-
to salvation,” etc. We believe the ever-
lasting Gospel has been restored to the
earth in this last dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. Rev. 14: 6 reads, “And I
saw another angel fly in the midst of
heaven, having the eyerlasting Gospel to
preach unto them that dwell on the earth,
and to every nation, and kindred, and
tongue, and people.,’ It is the belief and
firm conviction of the Latter-day Saints
that the angel came, that the Gospel was
restored to the earth, that Joseph Smith
was commissioned from heaven to declare
unto the children of men the restoration
of all things that had been before time,
that he was ordained by Peter, James
and John to the same priesthood they
held, and that he ordained his followers
in like manner.
	Since that time, notwithstanding all the
drivings, mobbings and persecutions, the
Elders of the Church have gone forth,
preaching the Gospel and baptizing those
who became converted, until the sound
thereof has reached many lands and
climes, kindreds, tongues, and peoples.
	Our Articles of Faith are:
	1. We believe in God, the Eternal
Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and
in the Holy Ghost.
	2. We believe that men will be pun-

[Column 2]
ished for their own sins, and not for
Adam’s transgression.
	3. We believe that through the atone-
ment of Christ, all mankind may be saved
by obedience to the laws and ordinances
of the Gospel.
	4. We believe that the first principles
and ordinances of the Gospel are: (1)
Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; (2) Re-
pentance; (3) Baptism by immersion for
the remission of sins; (4) Laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.
	5. We believe that a man must be
called of God, by prophecy, and by the
laying on of hands, by those who are in
authority, to preach the Gospel and ad-
minister in the ordinances thereof.
	6. We believe in the same organization
that existed in the Primitive Church, viz;
apostles, prophets, teachers, evangelists,
etc.
	7. We believe in the gift of tongues
prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, in-
terpretation of tongues, etc.
	8. We believe the Bible to be the word
of God, as far as it is translated correctly;
we also believe the Book of Mormon to
be the word of God.
	9. We believe all that God has re-
vealed, all that He does now reveal, and
we believe that He will yet reveal many
great and important things pertaining to
the Kingdom of God.
	10. We believe in the literal gathering
of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten
Tribes; that Zion will be built upon this
(the American) continent; that Christ
will reign personally upon the earth;
and that the earth will be renewed and
receive its paradisiacal glory.
	11. We claim the privilege of worship-
ing Almighty God according to the dic-
tates of our conscience, and allow all men
the same privilege, let them worship how,
where, or what they may.
	12. We believe in being subject to
kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates,
in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the
law.
	13. We believe in being honest, true,
chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in do-
ing good to all men; indeed, we may say
that we follow the admonition of Paul,
We believe all things, we hope all things,
we have endured many things, and hope
to be able to endure all things. If there
is anything virtuous, lovely. or of good
report or praiseworthy, we seek after
these things.—Joseph Smith.
	We believe in the pre-existent state,
that we are created spiritually or existed
in the spirit world before coming here,
that we consented to come, that we
might have a body for our spirits to dwell
in. This pre-existent state is often spoken
of as primeval childhood, or first estate.
The Lord said to Abraham, “And they who
keep their first estate shall be added upon,
and they who keep not this first estate
shall not have glory in the same kingdom
with those who keep their first estate;
and they who keep their second estate
shall have glory added upon their heads
forever and ever.”
	Moses sang, “Remember the days of old
		when the Most High divided to
the nations their inheritance, when He
separated the sons of Adam. He set the
bounds of the people according to the
number of the children of Israel.” The
population of the earth is fixed according
to the number of spirits appointed to take


[Column 1]
tabernacles of flesh upon this earth. We
also read in Genesis of the creation of the
plants and herbs. “Every plant of the field
before it was in the earth, and every herb
of the field before it grew.” And further,
“And I the Lord God had created all the
children of men, and not yet a man to
till the ground, for in heaven created I
them, and there was not yet flesh upon
the earth, neither in the water, nor in
the air; but I the Lord God, spake and
there went a mist from the earth and
watered the whole face of the ground.
And I the Lord God, formed man from
the dust of the ground and breathed into
his nostrils the breath of life, and man
became a living soul, the first flesh upon
the earth, the first man also; neverthe-
less all things were before created but
spiritually were they created and made
according to my word.”
	We believe there are many spirits yet
(yes waiting) to come forth upon this
earth in this dispensation, before the
Millennium, and that they have a right to
be well-born and also to have a body for
their spirits to dwell in, free from disease
and evil, if possible.
	We believe in redemption from the
curse placed upon woman. If you ask
why, we tell you it is a part of our re-
ligion, and we are working to bring it to
pass. In the last days, all things are to
be restored as they were in the beginning.
Eve was created equal with Adam, though
Adam was first. Genesis 1: 27, “So God
created man in His own image, in the
mage of God created He him, male and
female created He them.” In verse 28,
God said, “Be fruitful and multiply and
replenish the earth, and subdue it, and
have dominion,” etc. Woman then was
also given dominion. After the fall, in
chapter 3, verse 16, God said to woman,
“In sorrow shalt thou bring forth chil-
 dren, and thy desire shall he to thy hus-
band, and he shall rule over thee,” plain-
ly showing it had not been so in the be-
ginning.
	Woman will be redeemed from that
curse, as sure as the sun shines or the
Lord lives. And the man and the woman
will be equal, except there must neces-
sarily always be a first, and the man is
first.
	In the Church termed “Mormon,” wo-
men have always voted in all Church as-
semblies, on all questions relating to
temporal or spiritual matters, just as free-
ly as men, therefore it was not strange
that equal suffrage should be accorded to
our women at an early period. In fact,
woman suffrage is in keeping with the in-
stitutions of Mormonism and in harmony
therewith. Brigham Young was one of
the most progressive men of the age, and
the moment woman suffrage was talked
of, he favored it. The legislature then
in session in the winter of 1869 and 1870,
passed a bill giving women equal suffrage,
and the Hon. Abraham O. Smoot (father
of Senator Reed Smoot whose seat in the
Senate of the United States, is now be-

[Column 2]
ing contested) was the man who intro-
duced the bill, which passed, as you
doubtless know, and was signed by the
Secretary of State, the Hon. S. A. Mann,
then Acting Governor in the absence of
the Governor.
	As woman took the lead in the great
drama in the Garden of Eden and the
curse followed, and she suffered the con-
sequences; the daughters of Eve will, we
think, be instrumental in a great measure
through the Gospel in effecting the re-
demption of woman from the curse.
Christianity, so-called, wherever it exists
ameliorates the condition of woman, but
no vital power has yet redeemed her from
the curse. Woman in all countries
wields directly or indirectly the moving
influence for good or ill. History shows
that so long as woman maintained honor,
virtue and purity, grace and dignity as a
wife and mother, that nation had perma-
nency and influence.
	Here let me say the curse was not per-
petual, and that Eve was a willing instru-
ment in effecting a grand purpose for the
ultimate good of the human family, God
had so ordained.
	In the meridian of time the Savior
came, and introduced the Gospel, “which
before was preached unto Abraham,” and
after many centuries when men had
changed its ordinances and broken the
everlasting covenant, the Savion came
through a woman who had to suffer be-
cause of the manner of His birth, though
one cannot help feeling she had spiritual
recompense and consciousness of knowl-
edge others knew not of, yet it was a
woman who brought it about (or through
a woman) this atonement for Adam’s sin;
certainly we know God foreordained this
atonement, the Bible gives abundant
proof, nevertheless, woman took again
this prominent part, and again afterwards,
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were
the first to go and tell the disciples that
Jesus had risen. In Matthew, chapter
xxviii, verse 9, “And as they went to tell
His disciples, behold Jesus met them, say-
ing, “All hail,” and they came and held
Him by the feet and worshiped Him. 10.
Then said Jesus unto them, “Be not
afraid; go tell my brethren, that they go
into Galilee and there they shall see me.”
	In view of all these things and many
more, how can one help thinking woman
will have some vital part in the great
work of redeeming her own sex, the
daughters of Eve, when she has played
so conspicuous a part, first in the Garden
of Eden; and as in the great drama of
the world woman is and has been a
vital, active force, so it will be at the
close of the most sublime drama ever in-
troduced upon any stage, woman in her
purity and magnanimity will rise victori-
ous, having finished the part assigned her
and made restitution. Redeemed from
the curse, her triumph, her song of vic-
tory will be greater and loftier far than
Miriam’s or Deborah’s of old.
	Shakespeare said, “All the world’s a

[Column 3]
stage, and all the men and women mere-
ly players; they have their exits and their
entrances, and one man in his time plays
many parts, his acts being seven ages.”
We most of us believe in Shakespeare,
except those who think Bacon wrote
Shakespeare, and I am not one who does,
and even if it were so, I prefer the truth,
if it is one, the other side takes away
all the dreams of one’s lifetime and ut-
terly destroys the beautiful past. To
pull down Shakespeare and put up Ba-
con is a cruel mockery.
	One can scarcely enter in a philosophi-
cal sense upon why a woman should de-
sire to be a “Mormon” without going
back into the history of the past. I am
aware that in this progressive age that
looking backward is out of fashion, yet
I must in order to explain matters sat-
isfactorily go back to the early days of
the Church, the world calls “Mormon.”
In the opening of this paper, I spoke of
the Gospel, its introduction and of Joseph
Smith receiving the priesthood. Now I
am going to tell you of something which
transpired previous to the Gospel’s being
brought to Kirtland, Ohio, the first gath-
ering place and where the first temple
was built.
	It was a vision and I shall give it in the
words of the woman who had the mani-
festation, and I have heard it many times
from her own lips.
	“My husband, Newel K. Whitney, and
myself, were Campbellites. We had been
baptized for the remission of sins, and
believed in the laying on of hands and
the gift of the spirit. But there was no
one with authority to confer the Holy
Ghost upon us. We were seeking to
know how to obtain the spirit and the
gifts bestowed upon the ancient Saints.
One night, it was midnight, as my hus-
band and I in our house in Kirtland were
praying to the Father to be shown the
way, the spirit rested upon us and a cloud
overshadowed the house. It was as
though we were out of doors. The house
passed away from our vision. We were
not conscious of anything but the pres-
ence of the spirit and the cloud that was
over us. We saw the cloud, and felt the
Spirit of the Lord. Then we heard a
voice out of the cloud saying: ‘Prepare to
receive the word of the Lord for it is
coming!’ At this we marveled greatly,
but from that moment we knew that the
word of the Lord was coming to Kirt-
land.”
	This kind of vision is spoken of by the
ancient Hebrews or Israelites the sacred
people who inherited the covenant as
“Daughter of the Voice.” This is said
to be the tradition of the sons and daugh-
ters of Judah. However this may be,
soon after this remarkable event, the Gos-
pel came to Kirtland.
