[WomansExponent | Vol36 | 1907 | December | Issue: 5 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. | Author: MARY M. SWINDLE,]

	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		SEVIER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Se-
vier Stake convened in Richfield Relief
Society Hall at ten a. m. June 22, 1907.
Stake President Christina W. Sorensen
presiding.
	Sisters Julina L. Smith and Julia P. M.

[Column 2]
Farnsworth, from the General Board, who
were visiting our stake, were present.
	After opening exercises President C.
Sorensen welcomed the visiting sisters
and all present.
	President Mary E. Magleby read an ad-
dress from President B. W. Smith, to
officers of the Relief Society after which
President C. Sorensen said, she was
pleased to meet in this new Relief So-
ciety Hall, it is a beautiful building. Re-
ported the labors of the Stake Board,
said we are united, we feel our weakness,
but with the blessings of the Lord we try
to do our duty. We visit each ward once
a year, have twenty branches in the
stake, find the sisters united and energet-
ic, and ready to comply with instructions
given. She spoke of the stake business
meetings, where we get reports, we have
no helps, but expect presidents and coun-
selors of the different branches to be our
helps. Also of Missionary Sisters visiting
each others Society and bringing in re-
ports of improvement to all, those who
are visiting and those who are visited.
We feel highly honored, to have Sisters
Julina L. Smith and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth from the General Board with us
today.
	President Minnie Nebeker of the first
ward Richfield spoke of the new building
we are permitted to meet in today, it is
not quite finished so we cannot dedicate
it today as anticipated. About a year ago
we had some over $700 from selling build-
ing of former Relief Society. On last
Thanksgiving Day each sister donated $1.
We met with the Bishopric, counseled
with them, we asked the brethren in the
ward how much they loved their wives
and in this way we raised between $500
and $600. Bishop Heber Christensen and
William Ogden and many others assisted
materially. We have made our hall large
as we found the need of a house to
meet in socially and have parties, and en-
courage the young people to meet with
us and enjoy the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister Nebeker also gave a Lecture,
“Sphere of Woman”, made many beauti-
ful remarks, a good woman ever being
dispenser of love and joy in every home,
and using a good influence where ever
she may be.
	Vocal Solo by Sister Anna Orrock and
company.
	President Henrietta Wright, Richfield,
2nd ward, spoke of holding meeting each
Monday at 3 p. m. Sisters feel blessed
in visits of teachers, also spoke of the Re-
lief Society house, and congratulated Sis-
ters of the 1st ward, to have such a nice
place to meet in, and enjoy young peo-
ple socially.
	Sister Julina L. Smith felt more than
pleased to meet with the sisters, said “I
can feel the Spirit, that you are united,
it is the nicest Relief Society Building I
have seen. Every one has donated free-
ly. This Society is not only for older
sisters, but young mothers should be cal-
led to visit with the sisters who are older.
Said President B. W. Smith sent her love
to all. Gave some of her experiences in
taking care of old ladies; she loved to
visit with the sisters, almost every sister
can bear her testimony.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth spoke of
the new hall, and of the other two halls
in Richfield, also of the lecture given by
President Minnie Nebeker, she said our
husbands are the best husbands in the


[Column 1]
world. Our mission is to look after the
poor and the sick, encourage those who
are downhearted, we should not be gos-
sipers; encouraged wives and mothers to
live worthy lives. I feel we have a warm
welcome here, I feel you are united.
	Stake President Wm. Seegmiller. “I
enjoy very much in meeting with you, in
this new building, feel the Spirit of God
is in our midst, great credit is due, to
those who had the matter in hand. Be
wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
It is a grand thing to meet people, who
have the same object in view; spoke in
praise of the labors and efforts of the sis-
ters, hope you will be interested, and
every labor you do may stimulate to still
greater labors. What a wonderful mis-
sion is ours; may God bless us in all our
labors.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. after
singing and prayer.
	Conference continued at 2 p. m. Pre-
sident C. Sorensen presiding.
	After singing, prayer and other exer-
cises General and Stake Officers of the
Relief Society were unanimously sustain-
ed.
	President C. Ogelvie, Richfield, 3rd ward,
reported and then Sister Farnsworth
spoke of the good spirit in our midst, and
the building fund, for “Womans Building”
to be erected in near future, the brethren
had agreed to take the care of the build-
ing upon themselves. Encouraged the
stake to send more sisters to learn the
nurse course. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp to be
teacher this year. Many more nurses are
needed in our outlying stakes, spoke of
Sister Empy’s labors in this line, also of
saving grain. The Relief Society gave
20 tons of flour, to famine stricken Chinese
this summer, first car load of clothing,
etc., sent to San Francisco after earth-
quake and fire, was sent from the four
stakes of Salt Lake City. Encourage our
sons, to get acquainted with the Relief
Society meetings, it will be of great be-
nefit to them, when in the mission field.
We should be a light to the world, teach
our children to live moral lives.
	Sister Julina L. Smith said, almost
every point has been touched. We should
send our girls to Latter-day Saints’ homes,
when sending them to Salt Lake City to
work, gave some of her experiences with
girls; said my children always let me
know, when they come home at night.
We cannot fill a better mission than to
look after our children, and not send
them away or turn them out in the street,
begin when they are little, raise our girls
to make good mothers. Let our children
attend meetings, stay at home ourselves
if need be. The Relief Society is at the
head of Mutual and Primary Associations.
We feel the influence of Latter-day Saints
in our midst. We can give a good report
of your stake.
	Instrumental Music by Sister Josie
Christensen.
	Brother William Ogden said, he had
been acquainted with the labors of the
Society in building this hall, he had the
privilege of writing out the checks.
	President Minnie Nebeker and associ-
ates need praise for accomplishing this
task.
	Counselor Ellen Theuson, with feelings
of joy, we are trying to do our duty, felt
blessed to be a member of the Relief So-
ciety. Don’t let us neglect our duties,

[Column 2]
teach our children to pay tithing, in time
of trouble they will remember the teach-
ings of their mothers, let us be humble
and prayerful, we will all be tried.
	Sister Caroline Bohman, Treasurer,
also paid tribute to the labor of the sis-
ters, said, the blessings, of the Lord are
with us, in our efforts to do our duty. We
are fed by the Spirit of the Lord in our
meetings.
	President C. Sorensen always enjoyed
Relief Society meetings, rejoiced in the
work; was thankful to those who enter-
tained us, also to the singers. Let us
continue in good works. God bless the
sisters visiting with us that they may re-
turn in safety.
	An officers meeting will be held after
this meeting.
	Sister Julina Smith also thanked the
singers.
	After the benediction Conference ad-
journed for three months.
			MARY M. SWINDLE,
						Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
