LITERATURE Third Week in April. POETRY FOR CHILDREN Most of the poetry we have for children has been written during very recent times. Before about fifty years ago, indeed, authors paid little attention to child life. In Shakespeare's plays, for example, there are almost no child characters. But within the last half century much poetry has been written for children. It should be our effort to study this literature and make choice selections from it for reading in our homes. In saying that children's poetry i? of very recent origin, we must not overlook our Mother Goose melodies, which are really about as old as the race. No one knows exactly when such nonsense jingles as "This little pig went to market," "Hey diddle diddle," "Sing a song of sixpence," "Rockabye baby up in the tree top," and the other nursery rhymes were first sung to amuse the little folk. These harmless nonsense songs have been heard by babes of every generation for hundreds of years, and they will probably continue to be sung as long as there are babies to play with and rock to sleep. These are the child's first poetry. Some of the Mother Goose rhymes, such as "King William was King James's son," "London's bridge is falling down," and the old counting out rhymes used in "hide-and-seek," were created for plays and games. In earlier times, young and old would romp together over the village green, making up their own music for their folk games and dances. 
 The nursery jingles were followed years afterward by rhymes written to teach morals and manner's. These seem to have sprung chilly from Puritan source-. Parents and preacher then were rightly very anxious to "train up the child in the way he should 'They therefore gave him little lessons of life in rhymes, which made them easy to get and hard to forget. For illustration: "Let dogs delight to hark and bite, For 'tis their nature to; But, children, you should never let Your angry passions rise, Your little hand were never made To tear each other's eyes." "Little drops of water. Little grains of sand. Make the mighty ocean And the pleasant land. "Little deeds of kindness. Little words of love, Make the earth an Eden Like the heaven above." Such wholesome rhymes serve a very good purpose. Strictly speaking, however, they are hardly child rhymes; he can see the child does not naturally moralize. He simply enjoys life. Nevertheless, these little life lessons, done up in easy-to-carry packages, are good for him to take with his Mother Goose melodies. When the poets of later days, chiefly of our own time, began to pay attention to children, they wrote of them from an adult viewpoint. Their poems were about children, not for them. Whittier's "Barefoot Boy," pictures the poet remembering the joys of his own boyhood. It is an old man patting a boy on the head  a beautiful picture, but not so much for boys as grownups. Longfellow'- "Children's Hour." and Lowell's "First Snowfall" are likewise poems for older folk. Such poems may bring some enjoyment to children: but truly speaking, they arc not child poetry. Among the earliest poets who really made an effort to write from the child's viewpoint are Alice and Phoebe Cary. These sisters produced a good many little poems that are wholesome and childlike. Among them are "The Leak in the Dike." "An' Order for a Picture." "Three Little Bugs in a Basket." and "Suppose." The last named begins as follows: "Suppose, my little lady. Your doll should break its head, Could you make it well by crying Till your eyes and nose were red?" The poems by the 'Cary sisters, always teach a moral. Charles and Mary Lamb also wrote a few little poems for little folk. They were very prim little English rhymes, intended to help children to act very properly. From this type of poetry, there has been a gradual development into the real child rhymes of today. Among the first of the poems that really reflect the child spirit was MARY AND HER LITTLE LAMB. "Mary had a little lamb, Its fleece was white as snow, And everywhere that Mary went. The lamb was sure to go. "It followed her to school one day, Which was against the rule. It made the children laugh and play To see a lamb in school. "And then the teacher turned it out. But still it lingered near. And waited patiently about Till Mary did appear. " 'What makes the lamb love Mary so?' The eager children cry, 'Why, Mary loves the lamb, you know,' The teacher did reply." There has been some doubt as to the authorship of this poem; but recent investigations have practically proved that it was written by a Mr. Coulson, and that the incident on which the poem is based is true. It happened one day when this gentleman was visiting a country school. On returning home, he wrote the poem. "Mary and Her Lamb" is a true type of child's poetry. It reflects child-life from the child's viewpoint. A sweet little lesson is suggested in the last stanza; but there is no moralizing nor preaching about it. "Twinkle. Twinkle, Little Star" is another beautiful poem, produced in earlier days for children. 
 From these beginnings toward the right kind of verse for little folk, we have developed rather rapidly until now we have a good many beautiful poems for children. Among those who have helped to produce such literature is Mary Mapes Dodge, for many years editor of the St. Nicholas Magazine. She deserves first mention, not because she wrote much children's literature herself  though she did write some very good stories and poems  but because she inspired a host of others to write; and she gave them opportunity to publish their writings in her magazine. Mary Mapes Dodge may be called the mother of writers for children. Other special names that should be remembered here are Lucy Larcom, Jane Taylor, Celia Thaxter, Eliza Follen, Edward Lear, Frank D. Sherman, Christina Rosetti, and Emilie Paulson. These all have given us bright and beautiful verse for children. As an illustration, take this first stanza of Sir Robin, a delightful bird lyric, from the pen of Lucy Larcom: "Rollicking robin is here again, What does he care for the April rain? Care for it! Glad of it! Doesn't he know That the April rain carries off the snow And coaxes out leaves to shelter his nest. And washes his pretty red Easter vest, And makes the juice of the cherry sweet, For the hungry little robins to eat! 'Ha, ha, ha,' hear the jolly bird laugh, That isn't the best of the story, by half." Among all our children's poets, however, these three names stand out: Robert Louis Stevenson, Eugene Field, and James Whitcomb Riley. Stevenson has given us a charming little volume called A Child's Garden of Verses, filled with poems that reflect the heart of the children. This great writer never forgot his childhood days in bonnie Scotland. "The Shadow," "Foreign Children," "Windy Nights," "The Swing," all of his child poems show clearly that he was a child at heart. Eugene Field, likewise, kept the rollicking spirit of youth. His Love Songs of Childhood and With Trumpet and Drum are two little volumes full of choice lyrics of child life. Of James W. Riley a volume might be written. On his seventieth birthday the children of his birthtown strewed his way with roses as he rode along its streets in an automobile with the "happy little cripple boy," whom he has immortalized in one of his poems. Riley's verse is written artistically in child dialect. It is full of sweet humor and pathos, and always reflects truly the spirit of the little folk. Space forbids our giving further illustrations; but the following books containing these and other child verse can be readily obtained. We commend them to our mothers for the home library: Nursing Rhymes, Welsh, D. C. Heath & Co. Rhymes and Stories, Lansing, Ginn & Co. Pinafore Palace, Wiggin, McClure Co. The Posy Ring, Wiggin, McClure Co. Child's Calendar Beautiful, Beeson, Scribner's. Little Folk Lyrics, Sherman, Houghton Mifflin Co. Child's Garden of Verses, Stevenson, Rand McNally. The Eugene Field Book, Field, Scriptures. Child Rhymes, Riley, Bobbs-Merrill. The Ritey Reader, Riley, Bobbs-Merrill. Mothers may also find in the readers used in school much beautiful poetry for children. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. During what time has most of the poetry we have for children been created? 2. , What kind of verse for little folks has come from very early times? 3. For what purpose mainly were the Mother Goose melodies created? Illustrate. 4. Let each class member be ready to give a little "moral rhyme" intended to teach a lesson to children.  5. What characterizes the poetry that Longfellow, Whittier and other poets of their time wrote concerning children. Illustrate by reading "The Village Blacksmith," or some other poem. 6. Find some child poem written by Alice or Phoebe Cary, or by the other children's poets named herein and read it to class. 7. What qualities does the true child's poem possess? 8. What three children's poets have gained greatest prominence? Let poems from each of these be read. 9. Find in The Juvenile Instructor, The Children's Friend, and other Church magazines; or in our song book, some poem that you feel is true to the spirit of child life. 
 LESSON IV. Home