[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | August | Issue: 4 | Title: THE WORLD OF THE HEART. | Author: Unknown]

THE WORLD OF THE HEART.

"What is the world to thy heart, O, boy
	With the glowing, earnest eyes?"
"'Tis a broad fair field my strength to prove
	Where fame shall be my prize,
Where I shall battle unstained with wrong;
	Shall strengthen the cause that's pure,
'Till my deeds shall live in the poet's song
While men and books endure."

	And then I asked of the aged man:
		"O what is this world to thee?"
He said: "My world is not very large,
	The past has faded from me;
But my heart leans out to where, far away
	My sons and my daughters be,
With their flocks and herds on the mountain
		sides,
	Their homes in the vale below,
My heart would rest in their happy midst—
	It is there that I long to go.
I walk alone in the city's streets,
	O, what is the world to me!
When silence reigns in the empty home—
	My own, are the world to me."

And then I asked of a mother pale:
	"How wide is the world to thee?"

[Column 2]

She said: "One child lies buried where
	The oaks of Old England grow,
And an ancient castle threw its spell
	Where oft we have walked below;
And one lies rocked by ocean waves,
	Far down in its waters deep,
And one sleeps where, by desert road
	No stone doth a record keep;
Aud I am here, and those three graves
	That lie in the land and sea,
Have measured by their dear links, the length
	Of my heart's sad world, to me."

And then I asked of a lady bright
	With youth and with heart full free;
"O, tell me what thy world is like
	And what it doth hold for thee?"
"O, my world is very wide and fair,
	For my Captain lover goes
With his three good ships, where'er he choose
	And all the world he knows;
And I am with him in heart and song
	Wherever he guides his sails,
'Mid the balmy isles of the Orient
	Or the far North's chilling gales.
And the world of my heart is where he is,
	It is bright where the spices blow;
And oh! 'tis brave where he guides his ships
	Through the seas of ice and snow."

And then I asked one happier still:
	"How large is thy world to thee?"
"Not very large, but it holds enough
	That others might smile for me;
It holds not wealth or honors high
	But no happier hearts can beat,
We are king and queen in our own cot
	With our babe so fair and sweet;
'Tis a fair, bright world all peace and joy,
	With its blessings for us three,
And the future holds no thought of fear
	In my heart's world for me."

And last I asked of the sorrowing:
	"Like what is the world to thee?"
For thine arms are empty, thine eyes are sad,
	Come share thy sorrow with me."
She said: "As the heart, so is the world,
	In youth, or when it is old.
God, who gave the whole earth, gave to each
	A world of its own to mold.
Where the toiler heeded the still; small voice,
	For him the path was clear;
Where the pilgrim heeded his own heart's calls
	It hath led where the way was drear.
And ever ascending to the skies
	The cry of the creature pleads;
"Look Thou and help us, behold our work
	Our weakness and all our needs!"
And he sees the spirit amid the wreck
	Of human idols brought unto dust,
Ashes of roses' where the heart
	Had in the mortal placed its trust.
For my empty arms, my heart is full,
	Mine eyes through sadness see
One, only, who can my sorrows bear
	And walks unseen with me.
Some see but joy and know but half,
	Like flowers that bloom and die;
But souls that are made for usefulness
	Must stand where the storms go by.
To gain and yield, to endure, not mourn,
	No idol twixt God and thee—
To hope and wait for bliss, where? Beyond!
	This, friend, is the world to me.
			AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


