[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: THE BEST CHRISTMAS. | Author: Unknown]

		﻿THE BEST CHRISTMAS.

"Mamma and Papa, oh, do wake us!" they cried,
	And let us go with you, do, please!"
And the dear dew-bright eyes, with eagerness wide,
	Gave emphasis double to "Please."
And the cunning wee diplomats offered a bribe
	Of kisses and hugs from their store,
Enveloped in promises, duly inscribed
	And sealed, to be good evermore.

These infant detectives had fairly surprised
	A wondrous intrigue in the house
Their elders were thinking they had not surmised;
	Which was of this pleading the cause.
The darling old grandparents over the way,
	So loving, and patient and sweet,
Had given with blessings on each Christmas Day
	Their troop of grandchildren a treat.

The annual note to these parents in hand
	Invited by name every one,
And mentioned the lady, so new in the band
	That even a name she had none,
As "the lovely young baby who lately has come''
	“Will be pleased" and so forth—here a smile—
To meet cousins uncles and aunts at our home”
	The shouts of the children grew wild.

They chattered of turkey, plum pudding and pie,
	Dear Grandma presiding in state,
Of aunties and uncles, and cousins "so high,
	And just can peep over the plate.”
Of Grandpapa’s blessing which "was rather long,"
	Though Grandpapa meant well enough,
Of uncle Will's "monica," aunt Rena's song,
	And jolly old Blind Man's Buff.

But papa and mamma had but little to say—
	At least when the children were by—
But talked in a low ridiculous way,
	And ceased when the children drew nigh.
The urchins resented such underhand work,
	Resolving the secret to win;
And win it they did by cunning and quirk,
And this was the cause of their din.

"Papa and Mamma, do waken us, please!
	We’ll be just as quiet as mice!
Oh let us go with you to Grandma's, oh please!
	For nothing was ever so nice—	
No, not Santa Claus with his reindeer and sleigh,
	Nor dollies, fire crackers and toys;
If you'll let us go with you, we'll be every day,
	Your very best girls and boys.

Now who could resist coaxing sweetened with kiss?
	Especially, be it well known,
That from the beginning the parents meant this:
To leave not one urchin at home.
But who in the market their wares give away
	Which readily sell for a price?
So the children succeeded in having their way
	By promising everything nice.
[Column 2]
Now comes Christmas Eve with sweet stories of Christ,
	The ever new records of love
Which fill every chid-heart with purest delight,
	And light to long after-years prove.
And then the goodnights and the eager behest—
	“And dear mamma, please don't forget
To call us so early we'll be ready dressed”—
	Mamma said "I will not, my pet."

		Cold and clear
		The morn is here,
	The gates of the east aflame
		Herald the car
		From depths afar
	Of day;  and with glad acclaim
		We greet the dawn
		Which thus comes on
	To bring to the waiting earth
		Remembrance sweet
		Of angel feet
	And love's divinest birth.

		Rejoice! Be glad!
		Let none be sad
	On this happy Christmas morn,
		For far away
		This blessed day,
	Our Holy One was born.
		Our kindred ties
		He glorifies;
	We honor them more and more,
		And thus we throng,
		With love and song,
	Around our parent's door.

Uncle Will's sweet harmonica quavered and trilled
	Like twittering birds in the spring,
While children and parents the frosty air filled
	With melody sweet as they sing.
They open and enter, with blessings, the door,
	And hasten to Grandmamma's room;
The candles they carry their radiance pour,
	To banish the lingering gloom.

"Dear Father, dear Mother, Merry Christmas!” they cry
	And smother with kisses each face,
Lift up to the pillows each wee girl and boy
	To lisp the sweet greeting with grace.
Then lift two huge stockings, two cubits in length,
	Upon the white dimity spread,
Near bursting with fulness, requiring some strength,
	To lift them as high as the bed.

"Oh thus Santa Claus laid command on your sons,
	Your daughters and little ones here,
To give in his name these small hose to the ones
	Who’ve honored him many a year.
Beloved of  Santa, arise and explore
	The depths of these stockings we bring;
To quicken your fingers a pulse or two more,
	Your children around you will sing:

		Blessings!
	Blessings softly rest
	On the dear ones we love best,
	Grateful thanks to heaven we give
	That our parents dear still live.
		Blessings, blessings!
	Choicest blessings ever fall
	Pray your children one and all.

		Blessings!
	Blessings for the care
	Lavished on our childhood fair;
	Blessings for the toil and pain 
	We can ne'er requite again.
		Blessings, blessings!
	Blessed be your latter days,
	Filled with comfort, peace and praise.
		Blessings!
	Blessings on the day
[Column 2]
	When our Savior oped the way
	For renewal of delight
	In the land all pure and bright.
		Blessings, blessings!
	Ties of kindred never rend,
	Love and gladness without end."

"God bless you dear children, "they murmered, while tears
	Of tenderness brightened their eyes,
"How time has rolled backward the scroll of the years
	To give us this happy surprise!"
And while the fair circle of joy—beaming eyes—
	Those nearest the floor most within—
Keep eager lookout as each parcel unties,
	The voices make musical din.

“Oh, Grandpa," cries Frankie, I'm one Santa Claus,
	I put in that splendid new drum;”	
"I gave you that candy, those nuts, and those toys," 
	Cried each little "Hop o' my Thumb."
And Grandma had dollies and vases, and mugs,
	And sweetmeats, and ribbons, and lace;
Her little ones spiced them with kisses and hugs 
	'Til tears ran like rain down her face.

She said "O my darlings these beautiful things
	Are dear to my heart as can be;
But grandma must never be stingy, so come.
	And taste all these goodies with me.
And Grandpa said "Frankie, my brave little man,
	I’ve forgotten, you see, how to drum;
So take my two drumsticks quick's ever you can
	And play me a good Christmas tune."

And Fanny was asked to "Please hold my new doll,"
	And Katie “my necklace" to wear 
Just while it is Christmas," till each one and all
	Were busy with "helping" the pair.
The search in the stockings again they pursued,
	And still drew out heaps of fine things—
A new shawl for Grandma, a tippet and hood,
	A lovely gold brooch and earrings.

For Grandpa warm gloves and a charming fur cap,
	A muffler, a coat and a cane,
For both a large Bible to close with a snap,
	And an Album of verses and names.
The daughters and sons who stood lovingly by,
	All beaming with pride and delight,
The old folks said, wiping a tear from each eye,
	Themselves were the joy of their sight.

At last all withdrew to the kitchen and hall,
	And busily ran here and there,
To spread a long table, sufficient for all,
	And breakfast in order prepare.
Then Father and Mother, (now dressed with nice care,)
	Were brought to the table in state,
Where all in sweet reverence knelt down in prayer,
	Each one just before his own plate.

The breakfast was simple (the feast was to come,)
	Toast and butter, oatmeal and rich milk,
In fact just enough to be plenty, and none
	To make the dear little ones sick.
When the house was in order from garret to shed,
	The sleighs were brought round to the door,
To take some on visits with dainties and bread
	As gifts to the sick and the poor.

The children grew solemn at some things they saw,
	And sympathy sprang in each heart;
And gladly for those who had need would they draw
	The baskets and leave them a part.
No preaching nor teaching but this little gem—
	“Whatsoever ye do," sayeth He,
"To the least of my little ones, doing to them,
	Ye also have done it to Me."

Less noisily glad but more happy, they come
	To Grandpa’s dear threshold again,
Where stories and pictures kept busy their tongues,
	Till dinner was ready; and then


Came the grand Christmas feast with roast turkey and—
		there!
	I dare not attempt to portray,
For the carping young critics would surely declare
	'Twas better than all I could say.	

Then games, riddles, music and sweet Christmas song,
	Made pleasant the rest of the day;	
Then, loaded with kisses and blessings, the throng
	To other homes hie them away,
When they helped those wonderful stockings to fill,
	And carry them over the way,
Was the very best Christmas, the children will tell
	And stoutly maintain to this day.
