[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: MARY Y. CORBY. | Author: A. W. C]

						MARY Y. CORBY.


EMMA.
A THANKSGIVING STORY.
	The snow had been falling all through the
night and the morning light found everything
in the little town of L. sleeping beneath a soft,
white coverlet which the sun’s bright beams
turned into a mass of sparkling gems. Over-
looking the pretty town on the brow of the
hill stands a great white temple, which with its
snowcovered towers and turrets seems even
whiter now, and watching the fleecy clouds just
separating, leaving one large clear, blue space
above its snowy roof, one fancies that glorious
monument the dwelling place of angels
only just now dropped from heaven to cast a
divine light over the broad, beautiful valley
beyond.
	'Twas the last Thursday in November. A
fair, cold, silent day, a day when one prefers to
remain indoors and enjoy the warm fire, the
sumptuous dinner and the games and stories
which this holiday usually calls forth; but a
few found a sweet pleasure in ascending the
hill to the temple and enjoying a few hours
within its sacred walls mingling their voices in
praise and thanksgiving to the Father. I stood
without, listening to the sounds of music and
looking at the distant landscape where the
river winds among the blue far stretching hill,
enrapt in a strange aud sombre mood, when the
great outer door was opened and the worship-

[Column 2]
pers came forth, their step so light, their faces
all aglow as though some serene influence
guided every thought. Among the throng I
marked one whose step was just as light but
slower, whose face was as serene but still a
little sad, and he wandered from the crowd in a
lonely untrodden way; him I resolved to fol-
low. He led not to a bright cheery home or a
noisy street, but to the silent, lonely burying 
ground, and winding among the tombs and
mounds finally halted before a simple stone on
which was cut the name Emma.
	As he read the inscription his eyes filled with
tears and right in the snow he knelt and offered
up a prayer. I passed on but waited near the
gate hoping to learn from him as he returned
from his lonely visit, the story of her, whose
memory he held so dear, for story I was sure
there must be, a romantic one at that, but I 
scarcely had imagined anything so strange and
sad as the tale I afterwards learned.
	The stone marked the resting place of a wo-
man, possessed of such grace and beauty as any
of England’s fair daughters could boast, and
endowed with wonderful gifts and accomplish-
ments.
	In her father’s simple English home she
had ever been the brightest flower, cheering
and comforting her parents, caring for and
amusing her younger brothers and sisters, and
delighting and entertaining them all, and their
guests as well, with her piquant manner and
charming voice. One evening a stranger from
London was brought to the little home and in-
troduced to Mr. B's—family by a friend, and
as was customary the father, always proud of
his daughter’s beautiful voice, requested her to
sing for their entertainment. The gentleman
instantly perceived that the quality of her
voice was far beyond the ordinary, and him-
self a musician and director of an orchestra,
(though this fact was unknown to his host and
family,) saw an opportunity to make some gain
as well as pleasure through cultivating these
new acquaintences. He praised Emma’s voice
and insisted on her singing a number of songs,
but never admitting his own profession or
knowledge of music. He appeared to be
simply enjoying the melodies, while all the time
he was trying to note the compass,the strength,
the power, the pathos of this gentle girl’s most
wonderful voice. That evening was but the
beginning of a series of calls, and the gentle-
man came at different hours trying to gain an
opportunity to meet Emma alone and then
make her an offer, which he feared her parents
on account of their religious prejudice might
reject, but believed that he might persuade her
to accept. The opportunity finally came. One
evening some strangers from America were
holding a meeting in a large hall not far
distant from Mr. B’s. They professed to be
elders, teaching as Christ and His Disciples
taught, and some excitement had been worked
up through their coming, and Mr. B. had per-
suaded his wife to go with him to hear them.
Emma was left at home in charge of the
children and had just finished helping them off
to bed and returned to the little parlor to enjoy
a few moments practice when the door bell
rang. She felt sure it was her new friend. To
a girl like Emma, simply reared, but sensitive
and refined to a degree beyond her surround-
ings, the attentions of a cultivated and intelli-
gent man are very flattering, and when they
become so marked as Mr. Reading’s were,could
not help but touch her heart, such was indeed
the case. She knew the sound of his step,
and her heart throbbed if he touched her hand,
the blood rushed through her veins and tinged
her face, as his eyes rested upon her with such
looks of admiration and affection as he often
bestowed upon her. She scarcely dared to be-
lieve he loved her and was loth to acknowledge
that she loved him, but she knew that when
he was absent she was wretched, and that his
presence alone chased every unpleasant, discon


[Column 1]
tented thought from her mind. That evening
he revealed to her his profession and offered to
train her voice, telling her that he knew it to
possess such power, that with proper cultivation
she could claim the homage of princes, and
great wealth and renown would be hers. He
was not deceiving her now, but he did not also
care to tell the struggles and trials of a public
career. He made an offer to give her lessons
and bring her before the public, insisting that
the surprise to her parents, if she kept her
lessons secret would give so much more
pleasure, that she consented. The lessons in
music went on and lessons in love as well, and
one evening Emma presented her parents with
two opera tickets, telling them she bought
them with her own allowance and begging
them to go, for it would be something they
would greatly enjoy and ought not to miss;
Mr. B. was himself something of a singer and
consented as he usually did to Emma's en-
treaties. The dear girl was flushed with ex-
citement, her dark eyes shone like stars and
her countenance was a perfect glow; she
danced around the house, completed her little
every day tasks and begged to go to see a
friend for a little while. She went to a neigh-
bor's who was in her secret and there dressed
in her costume for the opera, covering herself
with a large cloak she proceeded to the theatre
in company with her friend. Mr. Reading
met her at the door and he felt, by her ex-
uberant spirits and bright face that he need
have no fear of her success.
	The curtain rose and the old-fashioned couple
sitting in the best seats in the building turned
their attention to the stage, they had been gaz-
ing at their surroundings, and the audience had
been gazing at them, it looked so odd to see
these simply dressed working people among
the most fashionable part of the audience. But
after the music began Mr. B. had no eyes or
ears for the be-jeweled people around him but
was at once lost in the sweet strains from the
violins. All voices now were hushed, and the
music vibrated throughout the building, the
faces of the audience were all expectant, for a
new prima donna with an Italian name if not
descent, was about to appear; every sound was
hushed as proudly and gracefully she came for-
ward, her sweet voice, with just the slightest
tremble, pealed forth its pretty song, when she
had finished for a moment the silence remained,
then a loud deafening applause began which
ended only by her reappearance and a repitition
of her song. The old folks were at first stricken
almost dumb with surprise, and neither offered
to move until the song ended, then the father
spoke aloud, "Why that's our Emma!" As in-
deed it was, and this was but the beginning of
a long stage career.
	The kind but stern father remonstrated and
the mother entreated her to give it up, though
she did seem so wrapped up in her chosen pro-
fession, for they apprehended with a parents'
anxiety that failure, poverty and despair, as
well as fame and success might be the fate of
a public life.
	Not only was their daughter in love with
her profession, but she was deeper in love with
her instructor, and she readily saw by accept-
ing an offer of marriage from him not only her
ambition satisfied, for he wished her to pursue
the stage, but her happiness complete. The
father mistrusted him almost from the first, and
besides he and his wife had become imbued
with the new doctrines that "the Americans"
had brought to them and naturally wished
their children to accept them as well. Mr.
Reading on the contrary had refused these
teachings and was a bitter opponent to them,
but his influence with Emma prevailed, he be-
lieved her voice would be certain fortune to
him, and if his love was not as great as his
avarice he at least held sufficient affection for
her at that time to make her his wife. 
[Column 2]
	The Elders, as they called themselves, often
visited at Mr. B’s. and taught his family the
gospel, but Emma was seldom present always
going to rehearsals and operas, and her lover
took great pains to prejudice her against this
new religion. He finally decided to return to
London, and therefore hastened their marriage,
that he might bring his beautiful, young wife
before an audience in that great metropolis.
	The wedding was quietly celebrated at home,
Mr. B. consenting. After a thorough investiga-
tion of Mr. R’s. character, he found him to be
fairly well liked among his London acquaint-
ances most of whom were musicians, and though
nothing very commendatory was revealed still
neither was there anything to justify him in a
positive refusal to the marriage, when he
realized how much his daughter's happiness
depended on it.
	The parting from home was far sadder than
Emma imagined; she was so attached to every
little thing in the home of her girlhood, and
the precious little sisters and brothers, and the
patient and tender mother and her great-souled,
dear, dear father, oh, how she clung to them
all and wept, and even faltered, and would fain
have remained in the quiet, homely little nest,
even though she believed the world was waiting
to greet her and do her homage, but the hus-
band hurried her off and with tender words of
his own; and wonderful stories of her approach-
ing fame, soon led her thoughts into other
channels, and on they sped to the great city,
where a human being is noted, no more than a
single bee in a huge swarm.
	The home of Mr. B. was very lonely without
their dear girl, but the family were much en-
grossed with their new faith and their house
had almost become a home for the Elders as
they paid their usual visits to the locality.
There were many of them now, coming and go-
ing all the time, making new converts and
working and teaching among them. Emma
wrote from time to time, but her letters became
less frequent and less gay, and the father feared
that her life was not all she had anticipated,
though she wrote that she had been very suc-
cessful in her profession, still they failed to hear
other reports of her success, such as they had
believed would come, for in their own blind
love they had been vain enough to think her
fame would be wide spread. Alas, how many
take a public step with the same belief and
soon are quite content with only a local reputa-
tion.
	Emigration to America was the next move
in Mr. B's. family, and as their preparations
were being made they all thought of and longed
for Emma. The father felt he could not
leave her in England in such an uncertain
career; and the mother's heart yearned day and
night for her lovely daughter; the children
asked is Emma coming, we want her to cross
the big ocean with us too?
	They wrote again and again but received no
reply, and at last the day for departure came
and no word from Emma. The little family
parted with country and friends and would
not have grieved much, so full of bright an-
ticipations of the new home in the West were
they, and they might have been quite content,
had it not been that their most beloved
child was somewhere in this land, they knew
not how situated, whether ill or well, miserable
or happy, as it was they looked back many times
and sighed for country, home and daughter.
	In the new land they soon made a happy
comfortable home and the children grew up
'mid pure and religious principles to be honest,
trusted and beloved among their friends. The
father never failing to respond to any duty
placed before him became revered and honored,
but ever in that little home was there a long-
ing and a desire for something not yet theirs.
At last their prayers were answered and ti-
dings came of the daughter, whom last they saw
[Column 3]
a weeping, smiling, hopeful bride. She was
alone in an English hospital, her husband after
compelling her to work on the stage under all
circumstances even when he saw her health
was undermined, till her voice completely
failed her and she could not get engagements,
deserted and left her to grope her way alone
in the world in sickness and poverty. The
letters her father sent her she had never re-
ceived, for her husband did not wish her to
know of their emigrating for fear she would
wish to come. His treatment had even then
assumed some degree of cruelty.
	With what little means she could gather after
selling her few treasures which she had managed
to keep from her husband, she gained admit-
tance to a hospital and while there confided to
her nurse, who seemed a kindly disposed wo-
man, the story of her father and the new faith
he had espoused. It happened that the nurse
had heard of this new Gospel and was in cor-
respondence with an Elder-at that time,and so
she worked with Emma to help her to find her
father. The nurse wrote to the Elder to come to
the hospital, and after hearing Emma's story he
wrote for her to the Presiding Elder in Eng-
land to find out when and where her family
had emigrated. Word was sent to her father
and he soon sent means for his daughter to
come to him. The thought of seeing her dear
ones and the hope that another warmer cli-
mate might possibly cure her cough, for it
was consumption, which exposure and over-
work had brought upon her, raised her spirits
to an unusual degree, and she seemed to revive
as though by magic. She stood the ocean
voyage and long journey to the West re-
markably well, but when at last the journey
was over and in her father's comfortable home
she was reinstalled as their own bright star,
her strength again failed, and she faded and
died in her mother's arms.
	And this Thanksgiving day the father had,
had ceremonies performed in the Lord's Temple
for that dear daughter, who could not live to
do them for herself, and he strolled to the grave
to offer there a prayer of thanksgiving for the
return of his loved one to him, to his people,
and to her Lord.
	This was the unwritten story beneath that
little stone marked Emma.
							A. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


