[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: FROM SISTER LU. | Author: PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,]

		FROM SISTER LU.

As the golden days of October,
	Merged into November gray,
Far backward I wander'd in fancy,
	Thro' long misty years away.
Kind memory drew back the curtain
	From many a fairy scene,
Gilding all with luminous glory,
	Fresh as the blossoms of spring.

There I greeted a new-born infant,
	As from the heavenly fold,
Assured that it must have come earth-ward
	Fom out the city of gold.
Oh, what joy a little child brought us!
	Wonderful love and delight,
I live it all o'er in the gloaming,
	On this chill November night;

The glad smiling welcomes and greetings,
	As gleams from Paradise shed,
Shine brightly in memory's keeping,
	From out the years that have fled.
The sweet infant smiles, soft caresses
	The touch of a tiny hand,
The old and the young in their places,
	Complete the dear household band.

Safe 'mong leaves of November
	Are pictures sombre and bright,
Leng stored in memory's chamber,
	Where frosts of time cannot blight,
By love's clear magical lantern,
	Shining down the muffled years,
Thro' life 'till its golden autumn,
	Come fresh views of smiles and tears.

To-night on this anniversary
	A day made famous of old
We send thee greetings most tender,
	With love that never grows cold.
We ask that long life be given,
	If God in wisdom sees best,
And choicest blessings of heaven,
	To make it supremely blest.

Retrospection on thy pathway
	Beam with a halo sublime,
Kind hands strew flowers about thee
	To solace days of decline;
In firm faith rejoicing ever,
	'Til life's wintry days are gone,
Then, in the bright land of summer,
	Awake in glory of dawn.
Atchison, Nov. 5th, 1889.

*Gun powder Plot in London, Eng.


A Volume of Poems by Bishop O. F. Whitney
is being published at the Office of the Juvenile
Instructor.  It is expected it will be ready for 
sale at Christmas time.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
ne copy one year, $1.00, one copy six months, 50 cts. No
eduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by mail,
xtra for postage one year, 25 cts.	
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street,second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
Second Class Matter.
SALT LAKE CITY,  -  - DECEMBER 15, 1889.


