IN MEMORIAM.

Editor Woman's Eponent:
	ON the 17th, of Dec. 1894, in Snowflake,
Apache Co. Arizona, there passed from this earth
a noble spirit, Sister Josephine S. Hulet, she was
the beloved daughter of President Jesse N. and
Emma West Smith, and wife of John R. Hulet.
	Although for years in delicate health yet her
smiling, happy countenance caused her friends to
suppose that many more years would be added to
her life. As a child she was gentle and obedient,
and as she grew to years of maturity, these same
loving qualifications increased; her whole life was
one of purity and uprightness, she followed the
promptings of a great nature and worked for the
love of truth; she possessed great charity
especially toward the erring and carried a
heavenly influence with her. It has been said by
those who cared little for a good name and who
were inclined to be rebellious, that she was the
first one who ever created a desire in their hearts
to lofty aspirations.
	At the organization of our Relief Society she
was chosen secretary, also recording secretary, for
several years she filled these positions, but be-
cause of failing health she was excused from
these duties, later on she was chosen as a teacher
in the Relief Society, which office she held at the
time of her death and which she faithfully per-
formed whenever her health would permit.
	She was born in Parowan, Iron Co. Jan. 23, 18 55
She was the mother of five sons, although only
one of her children survive her.
	Her funeral was largly attended, her body was
tenderly carried to the cemetry by loving brothers,
followed on foot by her husband’s father, her son
and her sister’s little son. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies, and many brethren; the proces-
sion reached almost a block then followed the
vehicles, at the grave their ranks were not broken.
After the interment they marched back to the
family residence where the sisters were tenderly
thanked and blessed by her mother, who is the
President of the Relief Society of this stake.
								M. J. W.


Visit the Folks.
	FOR the Holiday season the Union
Pacific will sell tickets from points on the
system on December 24th, 25th and 31st,
1894, and January 1st, 1895, at greatly re-
duced rates. For full information call on
nearest Union Pacific Agent.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S.	WEST TEMPLE STREET
			Opp. Grant Bro Stable

