		SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.
	MINUTES of the W. S. A. held in the
14th Ward, December 18th 1894. President 
E. B. Ferguson in the chair. Sang “Hark
the sound of myriad voices.” Prayer by
E. J. MacFarlane, Sang, “Our Country.”
Minutes read and approved. Roll called.
President Ferguson gave an opportunity
for those present to give their names, re-
ferred to the motion made at last meeting,
a letter had been sent to Mrs. Youngblood.
Decided we would not hold two weeks
meetings till after the holidays. The Presi-
dent gave an excellent address on “Woman
Suffrage in relation to social reform.” Mrs.
Tibbles President of the W. C. T. U. read
a short paper in regard to the work in
which she is engaged, 50,000 petitions had
been sent in, but it did not seem to have

[Column 2]
accomplished much, there are only sixty
ladies actively interested in the temperance
movement in Utah and no member of the
Latter-day Saints church. The lady want-
ed assistance from all.
	E. J. MacFarlane stated that the prin-
ciples taught by the Latter-day Saints em-
brace the temperance movement. Miss
Burton, President of the Rescue Mission,
thought if we had a vote it would help us
in our work, she then made a very touch-
ing appeal on behalf of the many young
girls who are being led astray, announced
a meeting to be held in the M. E. Church,
to help raise means. Referred to the need
of a matron in the city jail. Dr. Fergu-
son thanked the ladies for their attendance.
Ruth M. Fox endorsed all that had been
said, this was a day when we needed to be
self-reliant, women, had always thought
men should be just as good as women.
Maria Holt was chosen as assistant Secre-
tary. Dr. Ferguson appointed as a com-
mittee in regard to visiting those who
could appoint a police matron.
	It was then announced that at our next
meeting a paper, women as wage-earners,
would be read by Louise Badger. Ad-
journed till January. Benediction by M.
E. Irvine.		MARY E. IRVINE, Sec.
	MINUTES of the W. S. A. held January
15th 1895 in the 14th Ward Hall, Presi-
dent Dr. Ferguson in the chair. Sang
‘Why do we seek” Prayer Ruth M. Fox,
Sang “Oh ye fair ones” Roll call. Min-
utes for December read and approved.
President Dr. Ferguson then read a letter
from Mrs. Youngblood, thanking the ladies
for notice of her letter. Business was then
attended to carried that we meet twice a
month. Louise Badger then read a paper
on, “Women as wage earners,” President
Hannah Lapish of American Fork ad-
dressed the audience, in her usual pleasant 
and able manner. President Dr. Ferguson
then referred to a petition that is being,
circulated in Weber and David Counties,
decided that we have a similar petition for
Salt Lake Co. Adjourned till Tuesday
January 22nd. Dismissed by E. J. Mac-
Farlane. M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


