	MISS FLORENCE HUBERWALD, of New
Orleans, was introduced and spoke for the
cause. She has a strong voice and knows
how to use it. She said the women of New
Orleans are now studying public opinion
and they had won some notable moral
victories there, among them the banish-
ment of the lottery. There was other
work for them to do, she cried, with a great
deal of force, as the money power of the
land was tyranizing the people and driving
them to desperation. ‘In the name of
Liberty I speak,” she exclaimed, “and not
in the name of men and women. The
military spirit is gaining ground, the
children of the Sunday school are being
trained into military bands and everything
is tending to the military to tyranize the
people, and we are working for the equal
rights that women are entitled to and that
they should receive.
	Miss Yates, of Maine, made a short
speech abounding in cutting remarks
against mankind in general, which called
forth long continued applause.
	During the past century, she said, wo-
man’s sphere was said to be her home and
man’s sphere was all out of doors.
	“Gentlemen,” she continued, “haven’t-
you had the lions’ share of the business and
the lamb’s too?”
	She spoke of how much a woman was in-
terested in matters outside her own home
as her children spent two-thirds of their
time in the schools or in the streets. She
asked who was more interested in good
roads than those who wheeled the baby car-
riage?
	She laughed at the idea of women being
unable to understand the laws.
	“You never say,” she continued, “that a
woman who comes over from Europe with
a bustle made of diamonds and laces knows
nothing of the tariff laws.
	The custom officers never say, ‘poor
creatures, they don’t understand the busi-
ness and we’ll just let them pass.” Then
did you ever hear of a woman fool enough
to smuggle anything that was on the free
list?”
	The women had a weapon in this move-
ment, a weapon that was going to damage
some of the old-time politicians unless they
got out of the way.
	“The Quakers, you know,” said Miss
Yates, “are a very peaceable people and
they do not like to take life. The story is
told that one of them waked up one night, 
and found a burglar under the bed. He
reached out and got the pistol from the
place where it had been put by his wife, and
pointing it toward the place where the
burglar was lying, said to him in his mild
manner. “Friend, dost thee see this pistol?
I am going to shoot this pistol, and if thee
stayeth where thou art thee will get hurt.’
We are today saying to the politicians,
‘Friends, dost thee see this great movement?
We are going to shoot and if thee dost not
get out of the way thee will get hurt.”
	Mrs. Caroline Chapman Catt reported for
the committee on plan of work, as consid-
ered for the whole United States. In refer-
ring to the work in the south, she said the
head officers had always hesitated about put-
ting workers in the field as the south was
regarded as too conservative. Recently
numerous speakers had come into the south
and from the reports made by them it was
learned that the south was not conserva-
tive but ignorant and as soon as the people

[Column 2]
became informed they would rise up as one
man and give the ballot to woman.
	The committee recommended the organiz-
ing of clubs and the keeping of them alive,
and urged that the workers be put in the
field and kept there. It recommended that
a fund of $5,000 be raised, and urge that
special attention be given to South Carolina,
Utah and Tennessee, where constitutional
conventions were probable, and to Idaho
and Michigan, where it was likely that
amendments allowing women to vote should
be submitted to the voters. A course of
study, to be published weekly, like the
Sunday-school lessons, is recommended, the 
same embracing political science, to be
studied by members of clubs. Any one
taking such a course shall be entitled to a
diploma from the National Association, up-
on passing a satisfactory examination.
Each county club is urged to send repre-
sentatives to every county convention, and
each state association is urged to send
representatives to every state convention to
ask for the recognition of women as voters.
	The report, after some discussion, was
adopted.
	A collection was taken up to raise the
necessary $5,000 to carry out the plan.


