BROTHERS AND SISTERS.

		“There’s no belief in man,
		Not even in a brother;
		So girls, if you must love,
		Love one another.”
	The above sentiment is said to have been
found in a lady’s scrap book at a hotel. I
do not like it. It is too deprecatory of one
of the ablest and most devoted supports we
ever find—a brother.
	If brothers are not all that they should
be, the influence of good-natured, sweet-
tempered, pure-minded sisters will do much
to aid in their reform. Few boys, or men,
are naturally so very bad that the gentle,

[Column 2]
persuasive voice, and affectionate ways of
a true woman will have no weight with
them. Yet, sometimes, brothers are mean,
cross, and seemingly altogether worthless;
and it is not in the power of mothers or
sisters to reclaim them. And even such
ones, sometimes, get wives with tender
hearts to break.
	Perhaps the writer of the lines I have
quoted was one who had suffered from
being afflicted with such an irreclaimable
brother or husband. I pity the woman,
who ever she was, whose experience could
have led her to the expression of such a
bitter feeling.
	A piece of advice, frequently offered by
elderly women to young ones, is, “never
marry a man who is not kind and thought-
ful of the welfare and comfort of his mother
and sister.” This is excellent counsel, to
which sensible girls mostly give heed. Yet,
even men who have seemed somewhat
careless and inconsiderate of the rights and
feelings of mothers and sisters, are some-
times won over to better things, by the
prudent cheerful words and ways of af-
fectionate wives. A man should also be
careful in selecting a wife, not to get one
who is ungrateful, or regardless of the
happiness or discomfort of her father or
brothers.
	If a man has been brought up with a
mother and sisters who are unreasonable
and extravagant in their demands for at-
tention, he will, most likely, have acquired
the habit of making refusals, and of look-
ing to be found fault with for doing so. It
is as unfair for sisters and wives to want to
be petted and indulged all the time, to keep
them in good humor, as it is for brothers
and husbands to be ungracious and arbitrary
towards those who depend so much upon
them.
	Brothers and sisters, who are early taught
to be cheerfully, and lovingly helpful, and
considerate towards each other, will find in
life, great stores of pleasure and happiness
which those who are not so taught will
never know.
	Young people must have young associ-
ates, in order to glean from youthful days
and years all the richness and sweetness
which they are calculated to contain.
Where brothers and sisters are all to each
other that they may be, and should be,
there can be no proper estimate placed upon
the true value of the love which exists be-
tween them. It is too pure and too exalted
to admit of calculation.
	It often happens that brothers and sisters
confide to each other matters which they
cannot explain even to their parents. They
are about the same age; their sentiments,
their desires, their aims and anticipations
are all the same, and for the time being
they are more to each other than all the
world beside.
	I thank God that I was reared in a
large family of tender, devoted, appreciative
brothers and sisters.
