LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall Jan. 26th
1895. President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting opened by singing, “O, say what
is truth, etc.” Prayer by Counselor E.
Stevenson. Continued singing, "O, ye
mountains high.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved, also minutes
of the 15th ward Primary Association.
	President Horne felt sorry no more of
the Primaries sent in minutes to be read.
It gives me much pleasure to listen to the
reports of the Young Ladies’ and Primary
Associations, am sorry there is such a
falling off in sending minutes to these
meetings. I hope the good spirit and in-
fluence present at our last meeting, will be


[Column 2]
manifested to day. If each will only say a
few words. We can have a time of rejoic-
ing. I feel to support the sisters, chosen
to represent us at the Congress. They can
carry reports where our Elders cannot go.
We love to have our enemies think well of
us. At the same time, we don’t want to
be too intimate with those not of our faith.
If you are of the world the world will love
you. But we have been called out from
Babylon, Paul said keep yourselves un-
spotted from the world. If we gurad well
ourselves we will be sustained under all
trials and temptations through which we
may be called to pass. I wish we were more
united. If we were the Lord would bless
us more abundantly. Politics have divided
us more than any thing else that ever
happened. Let us live our religion, putting
our trust in the Lord. The Saints can
understand the signs of the times. The
American nation is on the move. All
nations are in a state of unrest. We know
that only through our faithfulness can we
be saved. We want to be prepared as were
the wise virgins. Our mission is to feed
the hungry, and perform other good
works. May the Lord bless us abundantly
with his holy Spirit.
	Sister E. L. Taylor arose with peculiar
feelings. I desire your faith and prayers,
that I may say something interesting and
beneficial. How good our enemies are
getting. I think we are in a perilous con-
dition. When our enemies are too good to
us. As has been said, "if we are of the
world the world will love us.” There is a
great evil growing in our midst. It’s fault
finding. With our leaders and those hold-
ing offices in the Church. We should not
judge. Not knowing the motive. I hear
some say, I don’t believe this or that is re-
quired of us, we are not united, have not
that faith and confidence we should have or
this conditions of things would not exist.
I hope to see the day when all will fill their
positions as they should, stand up for right,
never allowing a word spoken against our
labors. A short time ago I heard a sister
speak in defense of a brother. She said I
am a Latter-day Saint, so is he, I will not
hear him spoken of thus, without raising
my voice against it. I trust all my sisters
will manifest the same spirit under the
same circumstances. Brother Young once
said if the Saints will sustain me it will be
all right with them. If I fail to perform
my duty God will remove me. If we are
determined to do wrong, God will allow it.
It is the duty of every Saint, to sustain the
authorities. I promise you in the name of
the Lord, those who do wrong will be
removed. Let us be careful we are not in
the wrong. Live as we may be led by the
still small voice. Attend faithfully to our
duties, putting our trust in the Lord. He
will bring us through every trial victorious.
In regard to my trip I am about to take, I
feel it will be impossible to do my duty
without the aid of you my sisters. We
need your faith and prayers. We did good
work on the last trip, I hope we will not be
left one moment without the spirit of God.
We mingle with the best society. I hope
the Lord will tell us when to stop or when
to go on. I have no desire to go only to
perform my duty. I trust I may do noth-
ing to disgrace the cause I go to represent
am pleased to have an opportunity to tel
the world of our good and intelligent girls,
and of the good works being done. Sister
Zina Young is feeble, still she is willing to
come forth and perform her duty. Sisters


[Column 1]
perform your duties, sustain your presi-
dents, stand close by her, obey her counsel,
and I promise you, your associations will
be successful, go forward not backward.
	I have been associated with Sister Horne
for thirty years, I know she is a woman of
God, let us prove our love for her by obey-
ing her counsels. I thank you for your
kind attention. Don’t criticise me too much,
but pray for me. May the Lord bless us
continually with His holy spirit, is my
prayer.
	Sister Morris said I feel impressed by
the spirit to say, my sisters will go in peace
and return in safety.
	Sister Zina Young felt to say Amen to all
that had been said. I wish the words
spoken could be written on work with our
own pen There is little more to be said.
When I think of not being able to go into
our beautiful temple it makes me feel bad,
but my duty is foremost, if we are living
as Saints. We have the Holy Ghost to
guide us. We must work out our own
salvation with faith and trembling. It
stands us in hand to be faithful. The power
of the Lord is with his people. We are
greatly blessed. We have the word of God
right in this book, (Doctrine and Covenants)
Its right to praise God with our voices,
There is great power in fasting and prayer,
many mothers are left with the whole
charge of their children, Don’t stop pray-
ing, if you seek the Lord He will be near
you. We should bless each other, rather
than find fault. The Prophet Joseph used
to say, we didn’t bless each other half
enough. Don’t be over anxious but enjoy
the blessings given, and not find fault. If
we are faithful the world will be astonished
at our works, and the Lord will not forget
us when he gathers up his jewels. I want
to hear my sister, may the Lord bless us
with his choicest blessings.
	A Sister said how beautiful are words
spoken by the spirit of God. I have great
love for my Sisters who are placed over us
to counsel and instruct. I have been
strengthened and encouraged by attending
these meetings, have passed through many
trials but have reserved strength to bear
them through the blessings of God. My
greatest desire is to continue faithful in all
things.
	Another Sister said I feel full of the
spirit of God. I love Sister Zina and
Taylor, felt to say God bless them I am
pleased to say our society is in a good con-
ditions, I hear no fault finding. Con-
gregation sang “The spirit of God like a
fire is burning.’’
	A sister said my heart is full I can hardly
control my feelings, I pray the Lord to
bless the Sisters going away, and return
them in safety. Have no hard feelings to-
ward any one, want to sustain those in
authority. Sister Wilcox said my heart is
full of blessings for my sisters, I know the
power of God is in the earth. May he bless
us, and bear us off victorious. Sister
Brown also felt to bless her sisters. We
should not neglect our prayers, for the
prayers of the righteous availeth much if
we are faithful to our duty, the reward is
sure, made other remarks. Sister Morris
was thankful to be numbered with the
Saints, this people is my people, their God
is my God. I pray the Lord to bless our
Sisters, I know they will be blessed, and
accomplish much good. Sister Taylor then
explained the object of their mission, said
the number of young ladies’ enrolled in the
Improvement Associations thirteen thous-

[Column 2]
and five hundred. I am proud of this.
Sister Francis said this is the first meeting
I have attended, have greatly enjoyed the
remarks of the Sisters. Thought Lady
managers of sent to the world could ac-
complish a great amount of good, had
spoken to Brother Brigham Young upon
the subject while in England. Was pleased
to learn these Sisters were going forth, I
am sure they will accomplish much good
made other remarks. Other Sisters spoke
All testified of the good spirit present. The
subject of fault finding, evil speaking etc.,
was touched upon by many of the speakers,
all felt to condemn the paoctune, and to
live above it.
	President Horne made closing remarks,
hoped the Sisters would pray for the dele-
gates, they have great opportunities of
doing good. May the Lord be with them
on all occasions, and may the peace of God
accompany them on their journey. Sister
Morris again spoke under the influence of
the spirit, saying the mode of travel shall
be guarded for your sakes my Sisters. Meet-
ing adjourned for two weeks, sang “The
time is far spent.” Benediction, Sister
Julia Howe.
