REV. ANNA SHAW’S INVOCATION
	“Almighty God, our heavenly Father, and
Mother, we thank Thee for the providence that
has preserved the life and health of our honored
president and brought so many of us together in
this sunny southland. We thank Thee for put-
ting such a grand thought into the minds of our
noble women and for the assurance of Thy
blessed word that the mission of Jesus Christ was
to accomplish the freedom of all mankind. May
our deliberations be of such a character as to
hasten on the time when all shall recognize one
God and acknowledge themselves to be His
children. These petitions we ask in the name of
Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.”
	First in order was business, reports,
minutes of previous convention and ap-
pointment of Committees. While this was
going on pages were distributing to the
state delegations and members, badges of
yellow ribbon, representing the coat of
arms of Georgia, frightfully mutilated.
The Constitution instead of resting upon
these pillars of Wisdom, Justice and Mod-
eration, symbolizing the three branches of
government, only two were visible. Wisdom,
having disappeared, the others broken and
decayed; the military guard removed show-
ing woman has no protection under the laws
of the state; the real coat of arms is also
printed on the ribbon in striking contrast.
It is a unique affair and displays wit and
ingenuity in the one who devised it.
	The President appointed a committee on
“Plan of work,” for the ensuing year
(really the most important committee) con-
sisting of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, New
York, Chairman, Miss Mary G. Hay,
Indiana, Miss Laura Clay, Kentucky, Mrs.
Annie S. Deggs, Kansas, and Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Utah. Our Territory was represent-
ed on the Executive Committee by Mrs.
Marilla Daniels, Provo; and Mrs. Aurelia
S. Rogers on the Committee on Resolutions;
so you will see Utah had its proportion on
Committee work. Some five minutes re-
ports from States consumed the remainder
of the time of the morning session.
	Afternoon session opened at 2-30 with a
crowded house, after prayer, reports of
standing Committees were presented and
short speeches from state presidents.
The evening session 8 p. m. opened with

[Column 3]
music by a fine, well trained band and
prayer was offered by Rabbi Reich; followed
by Mr. B. J. Conyers of Atlanta with an
eloquent Welcome on behalf of the South,
it was indeed a royal greeting.

