BREAD MAKING.

	ONE of the most interesting and instruc-
tive lectures delivered by Mrs. Ewing,
during her recent visit to our city, was up-
on the subject of making bread.
	Mrs. Ewing prefers the compressed
yeast, as it not only saves much labor but
has been pronounced by prominent chemists 
superior to brewer’s yeast.
	When preparing for bread, break up the
yeast cake and cover with cold water. Use
a pint of wetting, half of sweet milk and 
half of hot water; the temperature of the
mixture should be about seventy-five de-
grees; add a teaspoonful of salt, and into
this mixture of milk, water and salt stir the
sifted flour; stir with a wooden spoon un-
til the dough is stiff enough to take on the
board and work with the palm of the hand.
When the dough will work without stick-
ing to the board or the hands you may
know you have enough flour and that is
sufficiently worked. Place the dough in a
greased bowl to rise; let it stand in a place
not warmer than seventy-five degrees for
there hours; it is then ready to put in the
pans. Divide the dough into as many parts
as you want loaves and work alternately; it
should stand about one hour after it has
been placed in the pans, but the tempera-
ture of the place where the pans stand
should not be warmer than that where the
dough was first put to rise. Each time it is


set to rise the dough should be brushed over
with a little melted butter to prevent the
formation of a crust. The temperature in
the oven for baking should be from three
hundred and seventy to three hundred and
seventy-five degrees.
	Graham bread is made in the same way as
the white, except that two tablespoonfulls
of sugar should be added.
	Boston brown bread: two cups of white
cornmeal, two cups of graham flour, two
teaspoonfuls of salt, and three of soda, mix
together; add one cup of molasses, three
cups of sour milk; (less soda if the milk is
very sour,) beat to a batter and pour it into
moulds or buckets, leaving space for it to
swell; steam four hours. This bread will
keep for several days, and when wanted it
should be steamed for one hour.


