ST. JOSEPH.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the St. Joseph Stake met in the
Academy building at Thatcher, Friday
Dec. 7th, 1894 at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m.
President Wilmirth East presiding. There
were on the stand William Johnson and
Henry Merrill of the Stake presidency, al-
so Patriarch P. C. Merrill besides other of
the brethren.
	After the usual exercises of singing, and
prayer by President Willian Johnson,


minutes of the previous conference were
read and approved. Verbal reports of the
several branches in the Stake were listened
to by the assemblage with great interest as
they showed an increased desire on the part
of all to perform their every obligation.
	President East was sorry that all the
Stake was not represented. Expressed her
willingness to labor as long as her Heavenly
Father desired her to, and on the other
hand was ready to go whenever He saw fit.
	Counselor Mary L. Ransom read a circu-
lar letter from President Zina D. H. Young
and Secretary E. B. Wells, on the necessity
of making their annual payments promptly
and regularly. The speaker then followed
with a few words of explanation regarding
the letter; also cautioned the mothers to
look after their children, keep them in at
night, know where they are and what they
are doing.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. by
singing, prayer by President Henry Merrill.
	In the afternoon the first speaker was
Counselor Serena Merrill who was over-
joyed to be with the sisters once more as it
had been some time since she had been
permitted to meet with them in conference
capacity owing to ill health. Felt that she
was blessed of the Lord and that He will
bless all who strive to serve him.
	Stake Treasurer Mary Taylor gave in
her report. Bore testimony to the divinity
of the work, felt to perform her duty, was
proud to own her God etc.
	Names of the officers of the Central
Board in connection with the Stake were
presented to the conference and unanimous-
ly sustained as were also three aids to the
Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
respectfully Elizabeth Layton, Maria
McRea and Mary E. Cluff.
	President East testified that these sisters
were chosen by inspiration, spoke on and
encouraged home industry in its various
branches.
	President W. Johnson and Elder George
Skinner thought the sisters as well quali-
fied to instruct and carry on their business
as were the brethren. Could see a gradual
improvement. Said the race is not to the
swift or the battle to the strong, but to the
steady and faithful.
	Counselor Ransom cautioned the officers
of the Relief Society to be very particular,
to whom they loan their wheat and that
they have good security, and that it be
returned with interest. The speakers
seemed to be endowed with the power of
God, and a good spirit prevailed through-
out the conference.
			SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


[Column 1]
