MISS ANTHONY PRESENTED.
	Miss H. Augusta Howard, of the Georgia state
association, in a graceful little speech, next pre-
sented Miss Anthony to the audience as a woman
whose home was in Rochester, but who dwelt in
the hearts of millions who loved her.
	"No mortal ever received a heartier welcome
than you have given me tonight,” said Miss
Anthony; “and n behalf of the Woman’s Suffrage


Association, not only those who are here, but
those who are scattered among the hills and val-
leys of the continent, I return my profound ap-
predation.”
	Referring to the subject that was nearest to her
heart she said that when the suffrage movement
began, a married woman enjoyed no greater free-
dom in Massachusetts than a slave of the old
south. The suffrage movement, however, had
not only resulted in a reformation of the marriage
laws of Massachusetts, but the law of nearly
every state in the union had been modified. In
addition to this, two states had unconditionally
declared in favor of woman suffrage. In closing
her brief little speech, which created no small de-
gree of enthusiasm, Miss Anthony presented Miss
Lillie Devereaux Blake, the president of the
New York city league, who was given a hearty
reception.
	Lillie Deve[-]ea[-]x Bla[-]e is one of the
brightest and wittiest women of the country,
as well as a vigorous speaker and campaign
worker; and her speech was sprightly and
brilliant with gems of thought. Mrs. Dora
Phelps Buell of Colorado was next on the
program but was not present and Mrs. Lyde
Merriwether came forward and made quite a
hit by telling the story of Dr. Holmes who
being called to fiill a a place made vacant by
an absentee who was twice his size said he
could’nt fill a place but would rattle
around it as well as he could. Atlanta
papers said Mrs. Merriwether’s eloquent
speech was perhaps the best of the evening,
at any rate it was a pathetic appeal for the
mothers of the land.
	Miss Anthony introduced Mrs. Chapman
Taylor of Denver Colo., but formerly of
Alabama as the only voter present with
spicy comments. Mrs. Taylor merely ac-
knowledged the compliment of the intro-
duction and made a graceful but brief
speech. Miss Elizabeth U. Yates, of
Maine, was the last speaker of the evening.
She won the hearts of the Southern people
by paying a glowing tribute to Henry W.
Grody, and saying she had fallen in love
with the South. Her speech was—“Signs
of the Times,” and in the choice of
language and beauty of expression it was a
charming finish to a delightful day.
	It would be utterly impossible for one to
“tell it all” unless in a daily paper with an
extra edition, but we hope to publish from
time to time some of the best speeches
made by the ablest speakers. It was a
notable gathering of brilliant, cultured
brainy women. We shall publish as soon
as possible the Plan of Work and the Reso-
lutions as adapted by the Convention, also
the report from Utah, which pertains
specially to home matters. The Atlanta
evening Journal in its Saturday night
issue had this to say, which was commenda-
tory of the remarks made of the work in
Utah.
	When Mrs. Wells had concluded, President
Anthony came forward and putting her arm
around her gave her endorsement to the speaker.
As she told of the work being done in Utah she
kept her arms around the delegate and the audi-
ence was visibly affected at this exhibition of
affection.
	Of the many interesting things we have
seen and heard and the proceedings of the
Convention especially of evening sessions,
we can only promise more in the future
pages of our dear little paper of which we
could distribute thousands of copies in this
trip if we had them. In the meantime the
dear friends at home may be assured that at
present a[--] is well with the Utah delegation,
only we are anxious to see those who ex-
pected to attend the National Council of
Women in Washington D. C.


