CONVENTION IN ATLANTA.

	WE left S. L. City via U. P. R. R.
Saturday Jan. 26 ult. at 5-20 p m. and ar-
rived in Atlanta, Georgia, Wednesday
January 30th, at 11-40 a. m., in company
with Mrs. Marilla Daniels, Provo, and Mrs.
Aurelia S. Rogers, Farmington.
	We were met at the station by a delega-
tion of the Atlanta W. S. A., a gentleman
and two ladies wearing the yellow ribbon
badge, and went direct to the Aragon, a
fine hotel, the headquarters of the National-
American W. S. A. We found some
prominent suffrage women had already ar-
rived and soon after Susan B. Anthony
came and Mrs. Chapman-Catt, these ladies
had been speaking in several places in the
south and were delighted at the seeming
success of their labors.
	There is no need of describing Miss
Anthony to our readers or to newspapers
generally, she is so famous now throughout
the country, that she can stand alone and
independently as the central figure for equal
suffrage and is so popular that every wo-
man however ambitious accords to her the
honor due her noble work and individually,
and if she is not a queen of a kingdom she
is certainly a queen of hearts.
	Thursday evening the ladies were
notified there would be an informal meeting
in one of the hotel rooms reserved for Com-
mittees, and a half-past seven p. m. the
many representatives who had arrived were
assembled. The roll of states was called
and about thirty were represented, a few
words being spoken by each of the states of
suffrage work where there was an Associa-
tion at all. Miss Anthony as usual com-
menting in her original fashion and making
every one feel at home with her at least;
and she manifested a deep interest in Utah
and expressed the ardent hope that it would
be the next state to come into the union
with equal rights for all.
	Thursday 9 a. m. Jan. 31st, an Executive
session was held at which considerable
business was planned and at ten o’clock the
Convention opened in DeGive’s Opera
House. The suffrage flags were draped
over the platform and the seats were marked
off for the several states with yellow flags
and the name of each respective state
stamped on, so there was not the least
trouble in seating the delegations.
	Miss Anthony came forward amid
vociferous cheers from all parts of the house,
which was well filled, and about as many
men as women, and called the Convention
to orders, holding in her hands the historic
gavel that rapped to order the Legislature

[Column 2]
of Wyoming signalizing the first victory
for woman suffrage and stated the fact amid
the hearty applause of the audience and
asked politely that the foot-lights be
turned off explaining in a humorous way
her objections.

