				L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN,
UTAH W. S. A.
	MRS. PRESIDENT, officers and members
of the National American Woman Suffrage
Association.
	Since we made the report from Utah to
the Convention held in Washington in
February, 1894, public affairs in the terri-
tory have very materially changed. Where-
as heretofore Congress has opposed the ad-
mission of Utah to statehood, this last year
there was little or no opposition. An
enabling act having passed the Congress of
the United States, providing for a Constitu-
tion to be framed suited to the conditions
of the country, and in harmony with the
laws of the Republic, we look forward with
great hope to the Constitutional Conven-
tion which will convene in the coming
March, believing that the men of our
Territory will stand for equal suffrage, and
that the word male will be excluded from
the statutes of the new state, giving all
persons born in America, or naturalized,
the same rights to citizenship. The divi-
sion of the voters on strictly party lines did
much towards bringing Utah into favorable
recognition by the government; the ques-
tions that once agitated the people are
obliterated, and in this respect as regards
women, much was accomplished through
the work done for the Columbian Exposi-
tion, when all women combined their efforts
to make the Utah exhibit a complete success
in every line, or department of woman’s
work. This has also given suffrage senti-
ment a more wide-spread recognition from
the fact that women who had once been
enfranchised, and who had practically
realized the privileges of the ballot; through
mingling with those who were new to the
Territory, and indifferent on the subject, 
(some of them even opposed) by their as-
sociating, became unawares as it were,
partially if not wholly converted to woman
suffrage.
	Previous to the election of delegates to
the Constitutional Convention which was
held in November last, considerable cam-
paign work was done by both the popular
parties, Republicans and Democrats, and
suffrage women in the several counties used
their utmost influence and best powers

[Column 2]
of persuasion to diffuse the ideas of equal
rights. Here and there women were in-
vited to speak in political meetings, and
they usually responded. All the political
parties in Utah adopted resolutions in their
platforms, practically pledging themselves
(in a way) to work for women suffrage in
the State convention.
	The W. S. A. in the territory has been
 very conservative, and has not as an as-
sociation affiliated, or allied itself to any
party, but maintained its allegiance to the
woman suffrage question proper, awaiting
developments and holding itself in readi-
ness to work with a purpose when the
opportune time should arrive, as come it
will, and must.
	Meantime, the members have not been
idle, or off their guard, but have sought
diligently in season and out of season to
spread the good word. Debates have been
frequent and numerous on this question, and
have been held on public platforms, and in
social and literary clubs by the young peo-
people, and even children. Only the very
day I left home to come to the convention,
a boy not more than twelve years old came
to me for literature and information, telling
me he was to debate on woman suffrage
with one of his schoolmates, and adding,
“I am on the affirmative and I’m going to
win.” “Of course, you will,” I replied,
“it’s the winning side."
	There are nineteen counties organized
now in Utah, three during this last year,
and although money is very scarce in the
West, we are determined to keep up our
membership to the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, because we
feel that in union there is strength, and
believe that the women of all states and
territories in the United States, should
unite on this great question which means
so much for womenkind, and for the better-
ment of all the world. We are determined,
as an association in Utah, not to be aggres-
sive, but to maintain our integrity to the
cause of equal suffrage which we have so
much at heart, and hold ourselves as a
reserve force, feeling sure that the time is
near at hand when the womanly and moral
element will be needed in the nation to
co-operate with men in the solution of the
grave questions which agitate the country,
the great wrongs to be righted, in which
women are as deeply interested as men,
mortgage indebtedness, bonding, excessive
taxation, and other serious matters which
call for reform, and to materially assist in
these matters, women must have equal
political privileges and advantages with the
men of the nation.
	The Utah suffragists have very strong
backing in the young men born in the vales
of the Wasatch, with an inheritance of the
love of freedom (a characteristic peculiar to
mountainous countries,) and nurtured by 
the mothers and fathers who prized liberty 
dearer than life. A number of the dele-
gates to the coming Constitutional Conven-
tion are young men who cherish these
principles, therefore we consider the out-
look most hopeful and encouraging. A
delegation of women will doubtless be care-


[Column 1]
fully selected to go before the convention
and listen, watching carefully any and every
measure calculated to infringe upon the full
freedom and liberty of women, and to
present petitions, if needful, should emer-
gencies unlooked for arise.
	Our conditions are very favorable as re-
gards the press; the State papers (almost
without exception) will publish a reason-
able amount of suffrage matter and the
country papers are equally helpful in this
respect. Home magazines devote space to
these subjects, and we have a competent
State Press Committee.
	We have had since June first 1872, the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT which has always
advocated equal suffrage ever since it was
established, and though it is comparatively
local in its circulation, yet it is ever loyal
to the rights of women and to the National
Association, and it is circulated in many
states and territories, also in foreign coun-
tries, and upon the islands of the sea. This
little paper has certainly been an important
factor in educating the women of our
mountain vales in the suffrage cause. To
be sure, some parts of our territory are
more active in organized work than others,
and have more local clubs, but generally
speaking, the tendency is to solidity, and in
the right direction.
	In my opinion, there are two good reasons
why the women of Utah should have the
ballot, apart from the general reasons why
all women should have it. First: because
the franchise was given to them by the Ter-
ritorial Legislature and they exercised it
seventeen years, never abusing the
privileges, nor was any cause assigned for
taking the ballot away from them, except
as a political measure.
	Second: There are undoubtedly more wo-
men in Utah who own their own homes
and pay taxes (if in a small way) than in 
any other state with the same number of
inhabitants, and Congress has, by its enact-
ments in the past, virtually made many of
these women heads of families.
	And in conclusion, let me say the con-
ditions of equality in all our educational in-
stitutions is and has always been the same
for girls as for boys. It was the sentiment
of the founders of the territory, and has no
doubt had a broadening influence upon the
whole body politic of that grand and
promising rising star in the West which is
now about to emerge from the obscurity in
which it has been hidden into the bright
galaxy of states, and take its place with the 
stars of equal magnitude in the Western
domain of the Republic.
			E. B. WELLS, President.
		
