ASSOCIATION.

	THE semi-annual meeting of the Utah
Woman’s Silk Association was held in the
old court room in the Wasatch block, Wed-
nesday afternoon, Jan. 22nd—Mrs. Margaret
B. Salisbury presided and Mrs. C. E. Al-
len occupied the secretary’s chair.
	Others on the stand were Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M.
A. Caine, Mrs, Amelia F. Young, Mrs. E.
B.Wells and Mrs. Lucy Clark of Farming-
ton.
	Mrs. Salisbury called the meeting to or-
der and in a few well-chosen words, ex-
plained the object of the association, which 
is primarily to promote the interests of seri-
culture in Utah, as the climate has proved
to be unusually well adapted to the cultiva-
tion of the mulberry trees and the growth 
of the silk worms.
REPORT OF OFFICERS. 
	The secretary read the reports of the
treasurer and secretary, the former showing 
the association to be in excellent financial
condition while the secretary's report was a
brief resume of the work accomplished,
meetings held and the successful exhibits of
Utah silk.
	Mrs. Allen also spoke in her report of the 
bill introduced in Congress for the establish- 
ment of five silk experiment stations, and
stated that a petition had been sent the 
House Of Representatives to secure one of
these stations for Utah. Hon. J. L. Raw-
lins had also been written to and in his re-
ply he had freely offered to do all in her
power toward securing one of the stations.
	Mrs. Salisbury then introduced Mrs. C.
W. Bennett, who read an able paper on this
history of silk in France.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young was the next
speaker and she chose as her topic the most
appropriate one of “History of Silk Cul-
ture in Utah." She went back to the days
of 1849, and her remarks were mostly
reminiscent, aud for this reason, doubly in-
teresting. Mrs. Young had been called the
mother of the silk industry in Utah and the
appelation is very appropriate, as she has al


ways been deeply interested in the subject.
	The next paper was by Mrs.
Salisbury, and her remarks were
directed to the exhibit of silk at the World's
Fair and how the matter received its first
promotion. She spoke of many words of
highest praise which she had heard for the
silk portieres of home-weaved silk which
formed such a striking feature of the Utah
exhibit.
	Mrs. Caine’s subject was “The Working
Exhibit at the World’s, Midwinter and Utah
Fairs.” She was in charge of the exhibit
at each exposition, and could tell better
than any one the effect produced on the
outside world.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells gave a short address
on “The Future of the Industry,” and said
that President Brigham Young had said
that is was destined to become a great in-
dustry, and she felt that his remark was
about to be fulfilled and the time would
come when silk will be manufactured here
in great quantities.
	Mrs. Stringham and Mrs. Clark, made
short addresses on the proper care of the
eggs and worms.


