Comfort Ye MY People? Isaiah 40:1 WORLD War II has ended. With the reported cessation of hostilities in Japan and the Far East, once more the healing wings of peace are enfolding the world. And, although many of the fighting forces still remain far from their native hearthstones, the comforting assurance has come to their loved ones that no longer are they called upon to face the horrors and destruction of a total war. The year A. D. 1945 will ever mark the close of an old era?one of sorrow and grief for the mothers of men?and the beginning of a new era. The unleashing of a new force in the final phase of the war, whose future power either for good or evil seems to be incalculable, foreshadows the new world era. If the inhabitants of the earth turn to righteousness, and this power is harnessed and developed for the good of man, its future use may prove a blessing to humanity In the hands of wicked and ungodly men, however, the development of this new force, as evidenced in the action of the atomic bomb, may result in the utter destruction of the human race. Such a supposition recalls to the minds of Latter-day Saints the words of the Lord: For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to scourge them for their Page 602 wickedness. And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work, which shall be cut short in righteousness (Doc. And Gov. 84:96-97). May the prayers of the righteous ascend upward in ceaseless supplication that a spirit of righteousness may abide in the hearts of mankind. The assurance of peace at this time brings a spirit of joy and thanksgiving to Relief Society members throughout the world. Faithfully and well through these past years have they carried on the work of the Society. With their own hearts torn and their sensibilities at times harrowed up almost beyond endurance, they have continued to meet together, oftimes under difficult conditions, to relieve the distress of the less fortunate and to mingle their fears, doubts, hopes, and even tears, in a closeness of spirit. They have added to their ability to carry on from the truths of the gospel they have been taught and from increasing the strength of their testimonies. Those women whose wounds will never entirely heal, who have been called upon to bear the supreme loss of a loved father, husband, or son, unselfishly rejoice in the happiness of their sisters and the blessings still remaining to them. With the removal, of the terrible anxiety which has oppressed the EDITORIAL 603 spirits of the women of the Church, and with restrictions on meetings lifted, there must come to Relief Society a great upwelling and resurgence of power. The future lies ahead unknown, but all the calls that may come to the Society will be met if members answer every call made upon them as individuals. Each day the Church Welfare Plan broadens and deepens. The part of Relief Society women in this Plan is great. The responsibility of the Society in saving souls by teaching and living the gospel, is also great. Only by a rededication by the women of the Church?the young ones as well as the older ones?to the work of Relief Society will it be able to fulfill its destiny in the years ahead. Endowed with the grace of humble hearts and contrite spirits, the women of the Church everywhere will work together?for only through their magnificent, united accomplishments will the unbounded potentialities of Relief Society be realized. And the righteousness of the daughters of Zion will be pleasing unto the Lord. M. C. S. THE fall time, the waning of the year, to some people foreshadows a season of dryness and decay, to be followed by the blanketing numbness of winter. So it appeared to the poet Bryant who lamented: The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year; Of wailing winds and naked woods, and meadows brown and sere. To such people the fall seems a dread season, a time of regret and heartache, of farewell to happy, carefree days, and a time to shoulder the burdens which are waiting. The word "fall" itself connotes a time of decline, an ebbing away of the fulness, a gradual withdrawing of pulsating life which leaves behind but a hardened shell, an empty husk, and a baren waste. To others, the third quarter of the year is best described by the term new ?John Banister Tabb "autumn," an uncertain time, typifying the unpredictable, the colorful, whirling, restless season of the year when activities which have been slumbering in the hot, languorous days of summer are revived; when the blood quickens in tempo with the biting winds without, and energy and spirit are renewed. The keen expectancy of a new school year with friendships and pleasures still untested, seems to pervade the very air. The snatching of unlearned books, the rushing out to meet playmates, the boisterous chatter of children, gaily attired in plaids and brilliant sweaters to match the kaleidoscopic colors of the foliage, punctuates the stillness of the morning. The noontide quiet is shattered by the calls of the released boys and girls who run home, sniffing and exclaiming over the sharpness of pepper-red chili sauce, the acrid tang of pickles or the cloying sweetness of preserves, and the unforgettable odor of freshly baked bread. The dancing leaves outside the kitchen door cast a living applique of shadow over the luncheon scene. Tempting samples from bottles whose contents are to be more fully enjoyed in the long months ahead, make these occasions ones to be cherished and recalled in future years. Such sunny, bright days may be interrupted by days of winds and rain, when the family gathers in close companionship around a crackling grate fire, and gratitude wells up in the hearts of the surrounding half circle for the plenty and security found within the beloved home. And after such days of blustery rains and squalls comes a ring of days, each one a jewel reflecting russet, saffron, taffeta tans or tawny orange, with here and there the glowing red of the sumac on the hill, all set in a gleaming band of maple gold. The season of all seasons?Indian summer. Then, as the days grow short and night shadows lengthen, the blaze of color painted by the Master Artist is swept away by the mighty brush of winds, and the mind comes to accept the changelessness of changes?of the season, moods, and circumstances. Over the glory of the beauty that was autumn imperceptibly but surely steals the gaunt, stark beauty of the winter. One is. Led to acknowledge the hand of the Lord over all in the inevitableness and lightness of the changes that enter into the lives of his children, as in the seasons, and to accept, with thankfulness, the sorrows, as well as the joys, of mortality. M. C. S.