AN UNWEEDED GARDEN Caroline Eyring Miner How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable, Seems to me all the uses of this world! Fie on't! Oh fie, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature Possess it merely. That it should come to this! Were these lines written in 1945, before the end of the war? No, but they might have been as far as their application is concerned, and yet they were penned by the hand of Shakespeare in the sixteenth century. Unbelievable, do I hear you say, that our mechanized and scientific world should have come from that unweeded garden of the sixteenth century? And yet it did. On the same foundation, may we not hope that four hundred years from now it will seem unbelievable to our descendants that out of the economic and social chaos of 1945, the idealistic order of that day could have come? Nevertheless, I believe it will be said. NOTES TO THE FIELD Relief Society Singing Activities Encouraged IT is gratifying to know that, despite these strenuous times, so many of the Relief Society singing groups have remained intact and have been able to keep their membership and often have increased it. We realize that due to the restrictive conditions that have been brought about because of the war this has not been possible in some areas.
The General Board appreciates the fine leadership and effort that have been put into the organizations of the Singing Mothers and that have made them distinctive and valuable.
Those who participate in these singing groups receive many cultural benefits as well as rendering worthy service to the Relief Society and
to the Church in general. This was definitely emphasized by our beloved President Grant in the following lines:
The singing of our sacred hymns written by the servants of God has a powerful effect in converting people to the principles of the gospel and in promoting peace and spiritual growth. Singing is a prayer to the Lord, as He has said: "For any soul delighteth in the song of the heart: yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads."
We therefore hope that every Relief Society member who is able to sing will affiliate herself with these singing groups and receive the blessings and inspiration of such endeavor.