Contest Announcements 1945 THE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. Since the contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of the contests in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest 334 THE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. Since the contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of the contests in no way precludes winning in the other.
Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest
THE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss.)
The prize Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1945. Three prizes will be awarded as follows:
First prize .........$20 Second prize ........$15 Third prize .........$10
Prize poems will be published in the January 1946 issue of ThePrize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.
Rules for the Contest:
1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board, and employees of the Relief Society General Board.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by one contestant.
3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible, where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of
4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks.
5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem.
6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used.
7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying:
a. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work.
b. That it has never been published.
c. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other persons with a view to publication.
d. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.
8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision.
10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1945.
11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 E. South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah.
CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS  1945 335 Relief Society Short Story contest THE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1945 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1945. Three prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize $35 Second prize $25 Third prize $15 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of Thefor 1946. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the Contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board  who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss.) 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the stoiy submitted certifying: a. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) b. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two successive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all stories selected for place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1945. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah.