We'll Live Those Days Again Centennial Commission Gus P. Backman, Executive Secretary Written at the Request of the Church Beautification Committee WHILE the uncertainties of war have entered into every phase of every life, be it the life of the individual, the family, the community or the state, one thing is certain, the one-hundredth anniversary of Utah, its Centennial year, will be celebrated in 1947.
Even under wartime conditions, if the war should persist until 1947, there will be an appropriate celebration of the anniversary. The Utah Centennial Commission, under the chairmanship of President David O. McKay, has assured that, and the setting aside of a possible $200,000 for the 1945-46-47 biennium by the 26th Utah Legislature has implemented that assurance.
Due to wartime conditions, plans for the Centennial celebration necessarily must be fluid. They must be made with such care that they can be changed quickly to meet the stupendous and instantaneous changes in conditions induced by the developments in warfare. They must also endeavor to carry to the nation and the world the heroic tale, the saga of the Utah pioneers that little band of Latter-day Saints who fought the elements, the Indians, and every adverse condition to find in Utah their haven for freedom of religious worship.
With conditions most uncertain, with the possibility that travel to Utah by outsiders in 1947 may be almost non-existent, and with the chance for a national or international exposition in the State absolutely impossible because of building restrictions and shortages, the Centennial Commission, appointed by the Governor of Utah, has turned to other means of telling the world of the historic tale of Utah.
The Commission, therefore, has developed a new plan of observance of the celebration. It embodies: (1) a national publicity program calling the attention of the nation to the observance of Utah's Centennial; and (2) the development in all sections of the State of a program which will acquaint the people of the State with a proper background of its historical significance.
The program, originally projected under wartime conditions, is aimed at that two-fold purpose. To call the attention of the nation to the Utah Centennial, State assistance will be given in an effort to bring every national event, every publicity-wise happening to the State during 1947. Included are:
National PGA golf championships, national Clay Court championships, national slalom ski championships, national ski cross-country championships; national ski jumping championships, national rodeo championships in four major events, nationally famous football, basketball, track and field events, and other nationally famous events such as livestock championships, music festivals, minor sports events of national importance and others. Page 336 WE'LL LIVE THOSE DAYS AGAIN 337 "WE'LL LIVE THOSE DAYS AGAIN" Locally, the Commission envisions the promotion of such events as are typical of Utah, including the Tabernacle Choir, the Zion Park passion play, the Timpanogos hike, the development of the Great Salt Lake area, the story of the Mormon pioneers, and the promotion of Utah's scenic, recreational, and vacational assets. Thus, if traveling restrictions are lifted by 1947 for the general public, many may be attracted to the State. If they are still in force, through national events, nation-wide publicity may be obtained and, at the same time, the story of the development of Utah industrially, culturally, religiously, and in business may be impressed upon the people of the State. THERE are many facets to the celebration which are not yet developed. Actually under the State appropriations, the funds are not available until July 1, 1945. But, if var conditions permit, there are many events which are exceedingly interesting. For instance, if ODT regulations make it possible, and funds are available, there is a project to re-live the trek of the original pioneers across the plains. True to history, these modern pioneers will leave St. Joseph, Missouri, and follow the historic Mormon trail, hour by hour and day by day, re-living the life of the pioneers, making every one of the night stops, and holding services or camp-fire meetings just (Concluded on page 372)