Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, June 1, and June 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations" Essential Freedom: Essential freedom is the right to differ in opinion, and that right must be sacredly respected; nor must the privilege of dissent be conceded with disdain and coldness, but with cordiality and good will. No loss of rank, abatement of character, or ostracism from society must darken the pathway of the humblest of the seekers after truth, the right of free thought, free inquiry and free speech as clear as the noonday. Without a full and cheerful recognition of this right America is only a name, her glory a dream, her institution a mockery.... S. A. Fullmer. Orangeville, Emery Co., May 10, 1885 Editorial: Some Affairs in England Gladstone's resignation of the position next to the Queen herself must have been a surprise to the English people, who look with such pride and admiration upon all places of honor near the throne, and especially upon any one who is in confidence of her Royal Highness. This movement will be likely to bring about serious consequences, although, perhaps the Marquis of Salisbury, whom the Queen immediately summoned to her assistance to aid in arranging matters with a view to creating a new cabinet, may manage the present crisis of affairs so diplomatically that the people will scarcely realize the radical change that is being brought about, for England has an adaptation in matters of State, whereby very grave questions are adjusted with such nicety and precision that the great world scarcely heeds it more than a ripple on a Summer era. In October, 1876, President Young called upon the sisters through the Woman's Exponent to lay up grain against a day of famine, and on the 11th of November following Mrs. E. B. Wells was chosen President of the Grain Association. At the same meeting measures were taken to publish a book called "The Women of Mormondom." The Relief Society in the branches throughout the Stakes of Zion have been engaged from year to year ever since in the storing of wheat, and many of them have built store-houses of their own, in which to preserve it. Thousands of bushels have, since that time, been stored away by the sisters, and they look upon it as one of the important missions given them to perform.... R. C. Atwood. RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS Whitechapel Branch, London On the above date (March 25th) was celebrated the eleventh anniversary of the Relief Society of the above branch by the usual concert or entertainment. The programme had received a wise and judicious censorship, and so nothing occurred or passed that could have offended the most cultured taste, or infringed in the least degree upon the rules of propriety. As Saints of God we desire to set a good example in all things, even in our amusements. In this limited space all that can be done is to make a passing reference to a few, who, by their talents, seem to demand some notice. All, however, tried to do their best. I will here remark that the concert was graced with the presence of Elder C. W. Penrose, the talented Editor of the Deseret News. The song composed by him, entitled "The Loved Ones At Home," was sung by Sister Angie Cross in her usual able style... Alexander R. Clark, Branch Sec. Page 344