[Vol2 | February 1915 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Give Us This Day Our Daily Bread Alice Merrill Home]
Give Us this Day Our Daily Bread. By Alice Merrill Home. The bread a family eats, indicates not its wealth nor social standing, but rather, the house-mother's power of discrimination, skill and training. Who shall say that the common people are not the best fed? The best loaf comes from the hands of the best cook, other things being equal, but even the best of cooks must fail, having poor flour. President Brigham Young set the women to the task of storing grain that we might supply bread in time of famine or pestilence. We are no longer preaching the storing of wheat only for the quantity obtained, but emphasize also the quality of that wheat. Our Government is assisting us, through education, to understand our larger duty in this regard. The Government has endowed agricultural schools and experiment stations, published bulletins, provided public lectures and demonstrations, to inform us on vital questions which have a bearing upon our life, health, and especially our home-grown products. OUR LARGER DUTY THE BEST LOAF. We, who are actively engaged in storing Relief Society grain should embrace these opportunities to post ourselves on every phase of the wheat and bread question, so that we may not only know how to raise the best grain to produce the best flour, to make the best loaf of bread, but to devote our influence intelligently toward standardization of wheat for the Intermountain States. CULTURE. Good bread-making is not merely a matter of education, for the good bread-maker must not only know how, but must take pride in making the best bread. She should have enough experience to discriminate between success and failure, and she should gain technical knowledge in handling her material. This is culture, and culture is gained in more ways than one. Unlike polish, which may be rubbed on as a sort of veneer, culture unfolds from within. The training in understanding the nature of growing things adds largely to the richness of one's aesthetic nature. In fact, every power of discrimination between the good and bad, the fit and unfit, is culture. When a truth is seized by the individual, that is education; but when it is put into use by the individual, and that operation is repeated enough times to form a habit, it becomes that person's second nature. So that habit lies 
 at the root of culture quite as much as does education. Through education, we learn the enormous destructive power of filth. But after all, cleanliness — comes not so much from the knowledge of the microbe as from personal effort to banish it from our homes. Intelligent application of our knowledge is the main spring of the great labor that keeps things around us sweet and clean. There is one other great subject on which the question of bread bears, and that is health. Flour consists of five properties — gluten, starch, sugar, fat, and mineral matter. The gluten or protein is the valuable food constituent. It is really the meat in the flour; gluten makes the dough elastic, and the stronger and more elastic the gluten, the better is the flour for bread. The gluten, too, holds the dough together, when gas forms through the action of yeast. The larger the amount of gluten, the more delicious and nutritious is the bread. A MATTER OF HEALTH. Good bread will go much further toward body-building than any other kind of food. One pound of bread — costing about 5 cents — will go as far as two pounds of meat — costing from 30 to 40 cents. This is not true of the poor loaf which comes from the soft wheats which carry a low percentage and poor quality of gluten. "Highest in price, but worth the money," is printed on every sack of the best eastern Turkey-red flour; and the legend From painting by Edwin Evans, belonging to Mr. and Mrs. Heber J. Grant HARVEST FIELD. GIVE US THIS DAY OUR DAILY BREAD. 61 is true, — we are all willing to pay more to get the best bread. To satisfy this growing demand for the best bread, Utah alone imports four hundred carloads of eastern flour annually, there being upwards of 35,000 lbs. to a car. Our Utah millers have become alarmed over this tremendous loss, and are making a great effort to get support from some of the great institutions such as hospitals, hotels, and bakeries, in favor of Utah flour; and in the past two years, by securing the dry-farm Turkey-red wheat for milling, they have succeeded in breaking down the barriers against Utah-Idaho wheat to the extent that they now supply 25% of that good flour. The flour, "highest in price, but worth the money," and this includes our own Turkey-red flour, feels like dry cracker dust. From actual home experience, we have demonstrated that our Turkey-red flour is as good as this best eastern product. Our soft-wheat flour is sold in the South for pastry and cakes, and in other states, such wheat sells for chicken feed. When we know that Utah, Idaho and Arizona can raise the best wheat in the world, we should determine not to halt that possibility. It can only be done by standardizing the winter dry-farm Turkey-red wheat, the only kind our millers recommend for bread. One variety of wheat, though it may not be the best, is superior to a mixture of varieties; for one portion of dough may be light and ready for baking, while the other portions would still be heavy. THE RELIEF SOCIETY A FACTOR IN COMMUNITY ADVANCEMENT. Our scientists, millers, and bakers agree, that the standard wheat must be dry-farm Turkey-red wheat. Our initial step in this movement must be in replacing our stored wheat with this home raised Turkey-red. We will not be content with any short of the best of that product. In selecting wheat for storage, keep in mind that the best Turkey wheat is produced with the least possible moisture. The scientists say that wheat grown without any rain, makes the best flour. For the best results, the grain should be harvested in the driest weather. Many parts of Idaho are adapted to Turkey-red, and it is from Idaho that Utah millers get most of their hard wheat. Why are Idaho farmers more progressive than Utahns? Utah raises the most foolish crop of wheat — dozens of varieties — while without any extra trouble, or cost, they could unite with Arizona and Idaho, and have the best wheat flour in the world. If we could buy seed direct from the Dakotas, where Turkey is the one standard wheat, it could help to rapidly establish our bread on a firm basis. Buyers grade their wheat as hard, semi-hard, and macaroni, according to the percentage of gluten, but the Turkey-red brings 5 cents more per bushel than any other. A
