[Vol2 | February 1915 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: A Fragment Sarah E. H. Pearson The Mission of Saving Grain]
A FRAGMENT. By Sarah E. Hawley Pearson. In tears and yet in trust we stumble on; One step ahead to know is all we ask; Light for the one day's duties to be done, Strength for the one day's superhuman task. Rest for the weary at its stormy close; Hope for the morrow; peace beyond the strife; With eyes to see beneath the snow the rose; God and each other at the end of life. MRS. ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY MISS ELIZA R. SNOW MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS, STANDING THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. FEBRUARY, 1915. No. 2. 
The Mission of Saving Grain. From Remarks by President Emmeline B. Wells, at the Relief Society Conference, 50 Oct., 1914. At this present time in the history of the world and in the history of our people, it seems necessary to talk about temporal wants, including the saving of grain; and I have been asked before this conference commenced, to speak of the mission given to me in this work. First of all, I want to say that when I was quite a young woman, I was at one time very ill, and Sister Eliza R. Snow came to me. With me was Mother Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who, in connection with another sister, helped to prepare the first woman in the Relief Society for burial, and who was counselor to Emma Smith in the presidency of the Society; she helped to lay out for burial the first sister that died after the Society was organized,— a sister recently from England, whose daughter was one of the wives of President Brigham Young. Sister Eliza was secretary of the first society; and when she administered to me, she gave me a blessing which I wrote down at the time, and she^ said: "You will live to do a work that has never been done by any woman, since the Creation." These were her words. Well, one day toward the end of September, 1876, President Young sent for me to come over to his office. Brother George Reynolds, his private secretary, brought the message. The Exponent office at that time was on the corner where the Alta Club is now, so that I had only a little way to go. When I went over, the president said: "I want to give you a mission; and it is to save grain. The brethren tell me, that the sisters want them to sell the grain to buy bonnets and other finery." In those days we did not wear so many hats, you know, nor silk dresses, silk ribbons, and the like. President Young continued: "I want the sisters to save the grain, and I want to give you a mission. I want you to begin by writing the strongest editorial that you can possibly write upon this subject."
