[Vol2 | February 1915 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Genealogy - Lesson III The Mission and Spirit of Elijah]

Genealogy. Lesson III ? The Mission and Spirit of Elijah. 1. The promise made in the 4th chapter of Malachi has certainly been fulfilled in these latter days. 2. The world has been industriously carrying forward the work of searching out genealogical records and printing them. 3. Many individuals are thus engaged. The President of the Genealogical Congress to be held in San Francisco, July 26, 1915, reports over 2,000 genealogists and genealogical societies already in touch with this Congress. 4. The parent genealogical society is the New England Historic and Genealogical Society, at No. 9 Ashburton Place, Boston, Mass. This was organized in March, 1844, just after the Prophet revealed the principle of salvation for the dead to the world. Many other such societies have sprung up since that day. 5. We have a Genealogical Society of Utah organized on the 13th of November, 1894, with Apostle Franklin D. Richards, as President. This Society is now presided over by President Anthon H. Lund and President Chas. W. Penrose, as President and Vice-President, and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., as Secretary and Treasurer. A circular will be furnished, on application to this Society, Historian's Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. QUESTIONS. 1. What was the promise made by the Lord as recorded in Malachi, and how does it relate to modern conditions? (Read Chap. 4, Malachi.) 2. Why should the world partake of this spirit of Elias? 3. How many people in your ward are engaged in carrying out this prophecy? 4. What can you say of the New England Historic and Genealogical Society? (See Lesson Book.) 5. What is the value of our Utah Genealogical Society to you as an individual? to your ward? to your stake? and to the Church? 6. How many in your ward have taken out a membership in this great Society? Home Ethics and Art.
ETHICS. Lesson IV ? The Law of Obedience. (a) Obedience to authority is one of the fundamental principles of the Universe. A home filled with unruly children and a disrespectful wife would be one of the most unhappy places in the world. (b) Plants and animals follow with unerring instinct the law of their being. It is given alone to man to obey or to disobey the laws of nature and God. That constitutes his agency. (c) Disobedience to the laws of health entails sickness. Disobedience to the laws of electrical forces may cause instant death. Disobedience to moral requirements result in strife and confusion in the home. (d) Children who abide by the laws and requirements of good homes make orderly and trustworthy citizens. There must be leaders in every community. See that they are chosen for their fitness. (e) Obedience to law is sometimes difficult because it crosses our desires but the consciousness of duty well done should be ample compensation even when there is no further reward.