[Still by Christie Lund Coles]

still couldn't reach Papa's hand. "Gee," said Richard, "I guess you'll have to leave me here." We gathered around and looked down at him. Martha Jane began to cry. "Hush," said Papa. "We certain-. Ly won't leave him here after all the money we've spent on him."
Papa handed Richard the string, but it was only to steady him; it could never hold him. "You'll have to stay here with Richard," said Papa to Randy and me and Martha Jane. "I'll have to go out and hunt for a pole or something." 'Then he made us promise not to move one inch one way or another until he came back. "Anything might cave in under you at any time," he said. We were impressed. We sat perfectly still, though our legs ached, and we began to feel cold from the damp. "You can show people my skeleton," called Richard, "and charge." "Be quiet," said Randy.
Everybody felt gloomy, except Richard. He seemed very cheerful. Martha Jane cried herself to sleep on Randy. Our feet were wet and muddy, and when we had just decided to abandon Richard and try to find out what Papa might have fallen into, he came back. He was dragging two long limbs from trees. Branches, partially cut off, stuck out on the sides.
Papa had a bandage around one of his hands. "Just a slight scratch," said Papa. "I thought it would never stop bleeding," he added. We were too cold to be very sympathetic.  ICHARD climbed out, after much slipping back and caving in of dirt. His hair was matted with mud. "Your mother will never know you," said Papa to Richard and then to us. He tied us together with string and took Martha Jane on his back. We went very slowly. "T'm hungry," Randy announced. "T don't want to hear about it," replied Papa. "Hungry," said Martha Jane, beginning to cry again.
Papa sang to her. "Oh, little Redwing, don't you cry. Oh, little Redwing." We didn't laugh. We were too tired. The sun made us squint when we got outside.
Papa blocked the cave aS a sign of warning and said he'd hike back with a sign since we didn't have any paper. "Today?" we asked with interest. "Not today," he said, looking away, "tomorrow." We slipped and slid and crawled down, down.
Randy and I moaned.
Richard galloped ahead, clutching trees and hallooing wildly.
Papa came down backwards, sometimes on his knees, holding Martha Jane tightly. We got back much faster than we went up, but it still took a long time. "Your mother will be very wortied," said Papa; "it's long after Junch.": We beat Papa and Martha Jane in by a mile, and Richard beat us.
Mama had lunch waiting and the camp all fixed neatly. We felt much better, though Mama was horrified at how we looked. "Did you all stand on your heads in mud?" she asked. We explained while we packed water to heat so THE JUMPHER FAMILY CAMPS we could get clean, which Mama said was going to be a job.
Papa got to the camp at last. He gasped and lay down on the ground. Martha Jane ran to Mama, and then she saw the swing. "Swing," she squealed. She ran in circles, toedanced to the swing. She seemed very happy and not tired at all.
Mama got out the first-aid kit and bandaged Papa's hand. She put merthiolate on his scratches while he groaned. "I'm dead," he kept saying. He revived to eat and wash and then lay down again on a blanket. He slept all afternoon while we explored.
That night he told us stories, and we roasted marshmallows around the campfire.
Mama took us for a short hike the next morning while Papa fixed the car. He had to flag someone and go to the city for parts. It took him all day. He hired a man to drive him back.
Then the next afternoon Papa wrote a sign about a very dangerous mine and cave-in and set off to post it.
Mama sent Richard with him to show him the way, though she whispered that part to Richard. Also, on no condition, were they to go into the mine. "Don't worry," said Papa. We hated to leave the canyon.
Papa was packing the car again, and we were helping. "Kate," he said, looking over a pile of bedding, "T never imagined in a thousand 519 years kids were so much work, that things pertaining to a family could be so exhausting." He looked at Mama with great admiration and shook his head. We all felt very conceited as if Papa had praised us. "T don't want to go," wailed Martha Jane, and Papa had to chase her. At last we were ready. "Oh, my pine cones,' Randy yelled, and leaped from the car and ran across the camp area. "I can't find them," she called. She disappeared from sight. 'There was a kind of squeak and shout.
Papa jumped out of the car.
Randy came up from the creek.
Rivulets of water dripped from her jeans.
Mama ran with a blanket. "I slipped,' Randy explained. "One more shock—" said Papa. We were off, finally, winding down the canyon. It seemed a long time since we had first come to stay, since we had been home. "It's too bad, Hugh, you didn't get to fish at all," sympathized Mama, holding Martin so he could see outside. "T don't mind," said Papa. "This was the best trip," declared Richard, "that we ever had." "Let's do it every summer," suggested Randy. "Promise!" we all shouted at Papa.
Papa promised. "We had a wonderful time camping," Randy said. We really had. My Thorn Maude O. Cook You say that your rose has a thorn? Why do you not try to transpose, And say without sorrow or scorn, "My thorn has a beautiful rose?"
Organizing the Relief Society ITlagazine Campaign N. Florence Hanny Former Magazine Representative, Firth Ward and Shelley Stake, Idaho 1.
Consider the calling which you have accepted seriously. Putting The Relief Society Magazine into the homes of the people in your ward is your work. 2.
Before beginning in any way, kneel in humble prayer before the Lord and tell him that you have been called to this work and that you have told those presiding over you that you would try to do it, and ask in faith for the Lord's help to guide you. 3.
Prepare a list of names of all women in your district, whether or not these women belong to the Relief Society organization.
Consult your ward Relief Society secretary for all names of Church members in your district which she has listed in the