[Notes From the Field: Bazaars, Socials, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering]

Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES. Photograph submitted by Jessie Reese SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), SMITHFIELD FOURTH WARD BAZAAR November 1949
Standing, left to right: First Counselor Rachel Hillyard; President Vera Roskelly; Second Counselor Fern Heaps; Secretary-Treasurer Vera Noble; work meeting leader Afton G. Smith. Describing the activities which preceded the bazaar, this enthusiastic society reports: "Last fall we had one of the most successful bazaars ever held in our ward. We commenced in February 1949 by calling for all available used and unused materials which could be made into rugs or whatever else the materials might be suited for. 'The response was overwhelming and enough material was brought or sent in to keep the members very busy until the bazaar in November. The average summer attendance was between forty and fifty women and the increased activity brought the members closer together and the entire project resulted in a great deal of good accomplishment, both spiritually and financially." Alta C. Allen is president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society.  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 547
Photograph submitted by Lucille H. Spencer NEBO STAKE (UTAH), SPRING LAKE WARD, FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT A VALENTINE'S PARTY, February 14, 1950
Front row, seated, left to right: La Vona Thomas; Annie Menlove; Hortense Butler., Back row, standing, left to mght: Rhea Menlove, present president; Cecil Peery; Lucille Spencer. All Relief Society members over sixty-five years of age were especially honored at this social. Lucille H. Spencer is president of Nebo Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mima Hainsworth PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON), COLONIAL HEIGHTS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAYS BEAUTIFULLY DESIGNED QUILTS AT THE BAZAAR, November 4, 1949
Laura Ross, assistant work meeting leader and Josephine N. Olsen, work meeting leader, are shown in front of the quilts. Also displayed were fifty aprons, a large number of towels, luncheon cloths, embroidered pillow cases, and a beautiful assortment of baby jackets, dresses, layettes, dolls, and dozens of other articles. Officers of the Colonial Heights Ward Relief Society are: President Alice B. Kraft; First Counselor Vera Remington; Second Counselor Nell B, Smart; Secretary-Treasurer Ethel Hurlburt. Mima Hainsworth is president of Portland Stake Relief Society. 
548 
Photograph submitted by LaVon Jacobson LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), HOLLYWOOD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS ASSEMBLED AT ANNIVERSARY DAY LUNCHEON, March 14, 1950
Left to right: President LaVon Jacobson; former presidents: Agnes Sloanie Nibley; Ella Perkins; Geneva Cooper; Isabelle Smith; Elizabeth Denhalter; Mary Watkins. Inset: Velma Richardson. Former presidents not in the photograph are: Kate Nielson; Irene McCullough; Frances Conover; Ida E. Nelson; Ethel Peterson (deceased). Dorothy Koer is president of Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Edna J. Kindred SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO), SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, May 14, 1950
Eileen Weaver, the accompanist, is seated at the left on the first row; Edna Kindred, Stake Relief Society President, is standing second from the left in the front row; Uarda Whiting, Second Counselor, is tenth from the left, first row. Blonda Knight, the chorister, stands at the right on the second row. Vera Hart, First Counselor, stands fourth from the left in the third row..
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 549
Edna J. Kindred, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports the closing of a season of successful activities: "Tuesday, May 23rd, we held our stake Relief Society closing social, with about 200 women in attendance. We had a lovely program, followed by a display of handwork which included most of our 1950
Welfare sewing assignment, along with many other lovely things. We made a little souvenir booklet which we presented to each sister as she came in. We also have a stake Singing Mothers group, consisting of sixty-one members, who sang at stake conference (May 14th) and at our closing social." Photograph by Keith Studio, Bellingham, Washington Submitted by Birdie S. Bean SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON), BELLINGHAM WARD PAGKANT "MOTHERS OF MEN," March 17, 1950
Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth Bradbury as Rebekah; Ruby Smith as a pioneer mother. Second row, seated, left to fight: Emily Newberry as Eve; Etta Pratt as Sariah, Elma Hansen as a Pilgrim mother; Jule McEntire as a mother of today; First Counselor Ranghild Safsten as Lucy Mack Smith; Iola Kent as Nancy Hanks. Seated, center, rear: Mary Rowe, as Mary, the mother of Jesus. Back row, standing, left to right: Thelma Umphenour, accompanist; Elizabeth Salmon, director; President Rae Linde; Second Counselor Ella M. Petrie. Birdie S. Bean is president of Seattle Stake Relief Society. 
550 
Photographs submitted by Amelia H. Robertson BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), VISITING TEACHERS OF LOVELL WARD, LOVELL WEST WARD, AND COWLEY WARD ACHIEVE A RECORD OF 100 PER CENT. Top photograph—Lovell Ward Visiting Teachers. Officers of the Ward Relief Society are seated in the front row, beginning with the second from the left, left to right: visiting teacher supervisor Aurelia Beddes; Counselor Thelma Corbridge; President Ida Shumway; Counselor Martha Gorbutt; Secretary Lorainne Fillerup. Middle photograph—Lovell West Ward Visiting Teachers. Officers of the Ward Relief Society, seated in the first row, beginning with the second from the left: Secretary Marcella Allred; Counselor Lulu Dillon; President Verda Asay. Seated in the second row, beginning with the second from the left: visiting teacher supervisors Edith Marshall and Kate Moncur. Bottom photograph—Cowley Ward Visiting Teachers. Ward Relief Society officers, seated in the second row, beginning with the second from the left: Counselor Iva Lewis; Counselor Pauline Stevens; President Geneva Stevens; visiting teacher supervisor Charlotte Mayer; Secretary Lamar Jensen. Amelia H. Robertson is president of Big Hom Stake Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 551
Photograph submitted by Vivian R. McConkie CALIFORNIA MISSION, WASCO BRANCH DISPLAYS FURNISHINGS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY ROOM. Front row, seated, left to right: Secretary-Treasurer Rae Hager; Second Counselor Rilla Honor; President Belva Edwards; First Counselor Flossie Hallmark; Louise Whedon.. Second row, standing, left to right: Chorister Barbara Baker; Zella MacDonald; Iris Dverksen; June Hawkins; Ruth Eaton. Third row, left to right: Ora Eta Gubler; Josephine Spilsbury; Florence Hallmark; Thora Landrum; Loretta Rose Stuart; Gertrude MacArthur. The photograph shows the Relief Society members and some of the furnishings of their Relief Society room. The lamps and rugs displayed in the picture were made by the women, and numerous other articles were made for bazaars and welfare work. Vivian R. McConkie is president of the California Mission Relief Society. POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), POCATELLO FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: President Isabell L. Curl; First Counselor Verla A. Marley; Second Counselor Ethel Aldous; Secretary Emma Puckett, who has been a member of the Ward Relief Society presidency for twelve consecutive years and in that time has missed cnly one meeting, this occasion being at the time of the death of her sister. Helen Pugmire is president of Pocatello Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Erma Croxall 52 SC 
Photograph submitted by Pearl Halverson GLENDALE STAKE (CALIFORNIA), WEST GLENDALE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS ASSEMBLED AT THE NEW GLENDALE WEST WARD CHAPEL AT THE CLOSE OF THE SEASON'S WORK May 1950
Officers of the society are seated in the front row, left to right: President Pearl Halverson; Second Counselor Blanche Alvard; First Counselor Barbara James; SecretaryTreasurer Edith Cooper. Mary E. Cutler is president of Glendale Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Verna L. Dewsnup ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH), HONORS ELDERLY RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, April 28, 1950
Front row, left to right: Cora S. Hagan; Jane Moss; Emma Riddle; Effie Dunham; Avery Jones; Julia Andrus. Back row, left to right: Mary Woodbury; Mary Reber; Ella Seegmiller; Emma S. Little; Anna M. Cox; Julia Graff; Ann Rinslasbaugher. The combined ages of these women, most of whom are still active visiting teachers, is 933 years, and the combined period of time spent as visiting teachers is 572 years. Verna L. Dewsnup is president of St. George Stake Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD | 553
Photograph submitted by Faymetta S. Prows MILLARD STAKE (UTAH), FLOWELL WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, left to nght, former Relief Society presidents: Martha F. Bushnell; Rozilpha C. Allen; Adeline A. Brinkerhoof. Inserts: (left) Rosanna Tucker; (right) Ethel B. Johnson (deceased). Back row, left to right, former Relief Society presidents: Nona C. Tomkinson; Faun W. Utley; Virgie W. Ivy; Fauntella D. Robison, present president. Faymetta S. Prows is president of Millard Stake Relief Society. Parting Christie Lund Coles Say it was something born of the night, Fragile as the shadow-lace of trees Lying on water, shimmering and bright, Say it was stars—Venus, the Pleiades, Say it was only, only these. Say it was night sounds, delicate, Whispered in the tall, dew-speckled grass; Say it was wind, sudden and intimate, Say it was skies, luminous as glass. Say it was these and let it pass. LESSON Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 26—"The Trial and Condemnation" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, chapter 34.) For Tuesday, November 7, 1950
Objective: To demonstrate the matchless love of Christ by recounting what he suffered to save mankind. The Jewish Trial After his betrayal Jesus was taken first to the Jewish rulers.
Early in the night he was taken to the high priest, Caiaphas. The latter was little more than a tool to do the bidding of Annas, a deposed high priest to whom Jesus was first taken.
Evidently a meeting of the Sanhedrin had been called at the palace of Caiaphas. The chief priests and scribes awaited eagerly the coming of Jesus at that place. No serious student of Jewish or other law has ever attempted to justify the mockery of the proceedings that fatal night. No hearing or judicial trial involving capital punishment could be conducted except in the regular official courtroom of the Sanhedrin. The accused had a right to be confronted by the accusing witnesses and hear their testimony before a court could define the charges. Instead, the high priest began immediately to question Jesus concerning his doctrines -in an effort to make him testify against himself. The Lord made  a perfectly good objection to the procedure when he replied: I spake openly to the world; I ever taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither the Jews always resort; and in secret have I said nothing. Why askest thou me? Ask them which hear me, what I] have said unto them: behold, they know what I said (John 18:20-21).
Instead of receiving the reply, as would have been the case in any fair court, one of the officers struck Jesus a blow with the palm of his hand, saying: "Answerest thou the high priest so?" Again Jesus made an appeal for justice: "If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil: but if well, why smitest thou me?" 'Though he spoke in gentleness, yet he leveled against them a keen legal weapon. If he had done wrong, where were his accusers which the law required? If he had spoken well, why was he treated thus by the officers whose sworn duty was to protect a prisoner? No, it was not to be so. "Now the chief priests, and elders, and all the LESSON DEPARTMENT _ council, sought false witness against Jesus, to put him to death." The time, the place and, in fact, the entire procedure was in direct violation of Jewish law. The Sanhedrin was a judicial body to hear only testimony. As in our own law, Cvery accused person was presumed innocent until proved guilty. In this so-called trial, the judges even sought false witness.
These dis.
Agreed among themselves until even the judge hesitated to condemn.
There was no coherent story, much less corroboration of a witness. The law required that two witnesses must testify against the accused or the case must be dismissed. The judges, however, had already decided that Jesus must be convicted and put to death.
Something must be done quickly as they wanted to take the prisoner before the Roman officials early on the morrow. "At the last came two false witnesses, And said, This fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days."
Other witnesses told a dif.
Ferent story: "We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands."
There was a vast dif.
Ference between saying, "I am able to" and "I will." In fact, a study of the text shows that Jesus was speaking of the "temple of his body."
They were seeking evidence against him and if he had threatened to do violence to their sacred temple, that was a serious thing.
Until that moment there was noth. Ing for Jesus to answer and he kept still.
This angered Caiaphas and, against all required procedure, he 555 angrily demanded: "I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God."
There had been no foundation laid for this question. It is plain that the high priest was going to abandon the sedition charge and change to the charge of blasphemy.
Jesus could have consistently disregarded the question as he had been brought before the court on an entirely different charge. However, he made an avowal that, in effect said: "I am what thou hast said."
This was enough. "Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He hath spoken blasphemy; what further need have we of witnesses? - behold, now ye have heard his blasphemy.
What think ye? 'They answered and said, He is guilty of death." (Read Matt. 26:60-66. ) This judgment was rendered by an unlawfully convened court on evidence consisting of a volunta statement made by Jesus. The Jewish law provided expressly that one accused of a capital offense could not be convicted on his own testimony unless it was amply supported by two competent witnesses. The decision of the high priest was rendered orally and no record is given of how the others voted, except by saying he was deserving of death.
Even the unanimous verdict in such cases was unlawful, because that indicated that the accused had no friend at the bar of justice. In this case, "...
They all condemned him to be guilty of death" (Mark 14: 64).
Luke tells us that early the next morning the chief priests and scribes came together and led Jesus "into their council."
This may 556 have been an attempt to correct the grievous errors of the night before. No student of jurisprudence will say that it did correct the mistakes of the night trial, even though they went through the form of a second trial—here again the only statements made were affirmations by the prisoner, given voluntarily, with no witnesses to corroborate.
Their first question, "Art thou the Christ?
Tell us," was illegal. The Lord, however, made dignified re ply: "If I tell you, ye will not believe: And if I also ask you, ye will not answer me, nor let me go.
Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of the power of God."
Then followed the vital question: "Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am. And they said, What need we any further witness? For we ourselves have heard of his own mouth" (Luke 22:66-71).
They put an entirely different meaning to his words because it suited their purpose.
Perhaps nothing further need be said against the trial which was but solemn mockery. The arrest of Jesus was illegal; his preliminary examination was illegal; his indictment was illegal; his trial and conviction were illegal.
Jehovah has been vindicated by every unbiased mind who has studied the case.
Once rejected by his own, Now their king he shall be known. Peter's Denial of His Lord It willl be recalled that at the time of his arrest, Jesus had indicated to the eleven apostles that they should go and not follow him farther that night. However, Peter  and "at least one other disciple" followed the Master. 'They persuaded the armed guard to let them enter the palace of the high priest and Peter "went in and sat with the servants to see the end." He was recognized by the attendant at the door, who was a young woman. As he sat among the servants, she said unto him: "Thou also wast with Jesus of Galilee." This Peter denied and said he did not know Jesus. No doubt, Peter's conscience began to trouble him and he went out on the porch to get away from further detection; but another maid, as soon as she saw him, cried out: "This fellow was also with Jesus of Nazareth." Again Peter denied knowing the Lord. The third denial came after Peter had left the palace and gone out to sit with others around a fire which had been built in the court.
There some of the men sitting with him accused him of being a disciple of Jesus. Indeed, a kinsman of the man whose ear had been cut with the sword asked him point blank: "Did not I see thee in the garden with him?"
Peter seems to have completely lost his temper and declared: "I know not this man of whom ye speak." "And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord " Immediately thereafter, a cock crowed. "And Peter went out, and wept bitterly" (Matt. 26:69-72, and Luke 22:55-62).
Whatever may have caused the denial by Peter, we know that he soon truly repented. His life of devotion and service amply prove that his repentance was sincere and genuine.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Christ's First Appearance Before Pilate It has already been stated that no Jewish court had the right to inflict the death penalty. Pontius Pilate was at the time of Christ's crucifixion the Roman emperor's deputy over Judea. He had come from his official residence on the shores of the Mediterranean to attend the great Jewish festival in Jerusalem. As soon as their own mock trial was finished, the members of the Sanhedrin led Jesus to the judgment hall of Pilate. Note their inconsistency. 'They would not enter the Roman's palace for fear they might be near leavened bread which, during the feast, would make them "ceremonially unclean." 'They were at the same time eager to shed the blood of their Creator and lawful King. Pilate came out of the palace and inCopyright by Eugene A. Perry 557 quired as to the accusations against Jesus. Even that must have surprised the Jewish rulers as they expected a confirmation of their verdict. Noting their hesitancy, he was about to turn the Savior back for them to try him according to the Jewish code. They reminded Pilate that it was not "lawful" for them to put any man to death. John implies that these rulers not only wanted Roman sanction but also wanted the Romans to do the executing. Jesus had foretold that he would be crucified (John 18:28-32; 12:32). That was the Roman method, while the Jews stoned to death prisoners who were guilty of blasphemy. It will be noted that the Jewish rulers did not accuse Jesus of blasphemy before Pilate. That would have been useless to their purpose. There was no such crime in the From a Painting by Munkacsy CHRIST BEFORE PILATE 558
Roman code.
They changed again and accused him of high treason which was a capital offense under the Roman law.
They told Pilate that Jesus claimed to be a king and that would be dangerous to Rome. Of course, he had not been tried for treason before the Sanhedrin. The Lord had spoken no word to Pilate and did not do so until they entered the judgment hall.
Once within the hall, Pilate, without prejudice, asked: "Art thou the King of the Jews?
Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me?
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew?
Thine own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what hast thou done?" The answer was so eloquent and beautiful that we suggest that John 18:36-37 be read from the Bible in the class.
Pilate was so impressed with the Lord that he announced a verdict of acquittal: "I find in him no fault at all." | The chief priests and others in authority would not accept the verdict.
They fiercely cried: "... He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place" (Luke 23:5). Christ Before Herod The word "Galilee" suggested to Pilate a plan of escape from a decision he did not want to make. Herod, the vassal ruler of that province, was in Jerusalem and Pilate sent the Lord to him. But the Christ would not even speak to the vile creature who had caused the death of John the Baptist.
Herod could  find nothing to condemn in the Lord and only as a further insult had him arrayed in gorgeous apparel and sent him back to Pilate. Christ Again Before Pilate When Pilate found that Jesus was before him again, he called together the chief priests and rulers and the people and told them that he had already examined the prisoner and the charges of sedition and treason were without foundation. The Roman governor wanted to be fair and just. He knew that the hatred of the Jewish rulers was because of envy and malice.
There was in prison at that time a notorious man by the name of Barabbas. He had been tried regularly and found guilty of sedition and murder.
Pilate knew that it was the custom among the Jews to release at the passover celebration one prisoner whom the people might name. He, therefore, suggested that inasmuch as he had found Jesus innocent that he be released and that Barabbas be put to death. But when the plan was put before the Jewish rulers it was rejected and they urged that the multitude cry out against Pilate's decision. In answer to the question, 'What shall I do then with Jesus? 'They cried, crucify him."
Seeing that they were de termined, Pilate washed his hands before the multitude, "saying, | am innocent of the blood of this just person: see ye to it." But he did release Barabbas and turned Jesus over to the soldiers. "Then rose the awful self-condemnatory cry of the covenant people. His blood be on LESSON DEPARTMENT us, and on our children." How terrible has been the fulfillment of their request! Judas Iscariot When Judas Iscariot saw how terribly effective had been the outcome of his treachery, he became wildly remorseful.
Rushing into the presence of the high priests and elders, he implored them to take back the thirty pieces of silver, saying, "I have sinned in that I have betrayed innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us?... And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, and departed, and went and hanged himself." 559
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Discuss the trial of Jesus. Tell why it was so flagrantly illegal. 2. Relate the incident of Peter's denial of the Lord. 3. What was Pilate's first verdict concerning Jesus? 4. What induced him to reverse his decision? References in the Gospels Matt. 14:1; 26:57-75; 27:1, 2, 8, 11, 15-31; 37:3-10. Mark 6:14; 6-20. Luke 9:7, 9; 13:31, 32; 18:32; 22:54-71; 23:2, 3, 4> 5°25. John 1:35, 40; 2:18-22; 11:49-50; 13:23; 18:8, 9, 13, 14, 15-24, 28-32, 39, 40; 19:1-16, 26; 20:2; 21:7, 20, 24. 14:30, 53-72; 15:1, 2, 7. Visiting Seacher ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 10—Take Ye Heed, Watch and Pray" (Mark 13:33). Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, November 7, 1950
Objective: prayer. N these few simple words, "Take ve heed, watch and pray," (Mark 13:33) the Savior admonished four of his chosen apostles. As in those days, so today, we must watch and pray. A consideration of the subject of prayer is appropriate to the Thanksgiving season.
Believing in Christ, we must believe in prayer, for (in his miracles especially) he demonstrated over and over the efficacy of this form of spiritual activity. To bring out the vital power of prayer, and the need for habitual The Master did not tell us to pray occasionally, but enjoined us to "pray always" (Luke 21:36). He set the example in so doing. If our Redeemer, in his perfection, needed the help of constant prayer, how much more do we in our imperfection need it!
Before taking the important step of choosing his twelve apostles, "He went out into a mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer to God" (Luke 6:12).
When im- 560 portant decisions face us, we might well say with his disciples, "Lord, teach us to pray" (Luke 11:1).
After feeding the five thousand, the Savior sent his disciples before him in a ship. "And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was come, he was there alone" (Matt. 14:23). In times of weariness or discouragement, prayer can give us increased physical buoyancy, as we withdraw, for a time, from the pressure of the everyday affairs of life and regain our spiritual balance. "When thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is im secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly" (Matt. 6:6). Dr. Alexis Carrel, famed the world over for thirty-three years of scientific research in the famous Rockefeller Institute, understood fully the power of prayer. He declared: Prayer is not only worship, but it is the most powerful form of energy that one can generate. The influence of prayer on the human mind and body is as  demonstrable as that of secreting glands....
Prayer is a force as real as terrestrial gravity. As a physician, I have seen men, after all other therapy had failed, lifted out of disease and melancholy by the serene effort of prayer.
Many individuals, more to be pitied than censured, have no conception of the power of prayer.
They have not experienced the uplift, the solace, and the soul growth that comes to the eternal part of our natures through communion with our Heavenly Father. Elder Richard L.
Evans says: He who has ceased to pray has lost a great friendship, and he who has never prayed has never known the greatest companionship that can come to mortal man—the companionship of man with his Maker (Evans, Richard L., Unto the Hills, page 130). One writer terms prayer "the greatest unused resource in the world today," and another states that if there is to be hope for a better world, "prayer, the basic exercise of the spirit, must be actively practiced in the lives of common men and women." "Take ye heed, watch and pray."
More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of.
Wherefore let thy voice Rise like a fountain for me night and day. (Alfred, Lord Tennyson) LESSON DEPARTMENT 561
Work ITleeting—The Art of Homemaking (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at