[Version by Kathryn Jane Collins]

versions has been made among the Mexicans who, when properly approached, listen Photograph by Willard Luce CLEMENT YOUNGEAGLE, PUEBLO INDIAN 511 freely and make excellent members of the Church. At present we have two missions among the Mexicans, the Spanish-American mission in the United States and the Mexican 512
Mission in Mexico and Central America.
There are two other Spanish-speaking missions and one where Portuguese is spoken, but they do not deal directly with indigenous peoples.
Most of the work which has been done with the Mexican people has been during my own lifetime. You will see by this that it is not very old.
Work among other native races has been very spasmodic. At different times and in different sections of the country Indians have been made members of the Church, usually not in large numbers. I have been told, but have never verified the statement, that in early days in St. George, where I was born, as many as two hundred Indians were baptized, but I cannot remember ever seeing an Indian in one of our sacrament meetings up to the time I left St.
George in 1896. 'They seem to have been baptized and left pretty much to their own devices.
Within the last few years this work in the stakes and missions has been stimulated. It is only a short time ago that the Navajo-Zuni Mission was organized. It has now grown into the Southwest Indian Mission and is operating under its second mission president. The results have been even better than was originally expected.
When it is remembered that the missionaries do not learn the languages of the Indians and have to work through interpreters, the results seem all the more remarkable. It is a thrilling thing to observe the effects of the gospel in the lives of these people when they accept it. _ Because they have been an underprivileged people for so many years,  the transition is more apparent than among other people whose living plane has been higher. It is interesting to note the enthusiasm of the men and women who are called to labor among them.
Although it is a difficult assignment, both the young men and young women enter into it with great devotion and become sincerely attached to the people they work with. WHEN one considers the little, that has been accomplished and the fact that south of the United States there must be more than one hundred millions of these people, to say nothing of the numbers in the United States and Canada, the problem becomes almost appalling.
Great promises have been made to these people in the Book of Mormon and, when realized, they will be the result of great changes in their manner of life.
These changes should come through the observance of the principles of the gospel which must be taken to them by the Priesthood bearers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Let us not fail them in their extremity. I said our greatest success was had among the Mexican people, but we have baptized far more people among the Islanders of the Pacific. My feeling, however, is that while they most likely are of the house of Lehi, they are more likely to be of the faithful branch than of the other. One writer whom I have read, who seems to have made a very extensive study of those peoples (Miles Poindexter in his book The Ayar-Incas), says that the people who ruled in New Zealand were Photograph by Ray Loomis
NAVAJO FAMILY 514 [Photograph by Willard Luce  NAVAJO BABIES originally a large white race.
Tradition tells us of an earlier native race, far inferior to the whites, who inhabited New Zealand.
Poindexter thinks that the present dark skin of the Polynesians may have come from intermarriage with these smaller, darker people.
That may possibly account for the color problem. It seems to be a pretty well established fact that both Samoa and Hawaii were settled from New Zealand.
From these and other rather limited studies which I have made, I am _ inclined, especially when I note the avidity with which these people absorb the gospel, to the belief that they should be called Nephites.
Their size, and their faith indicate that they are Hebraic, and their traditions would indicate that they left the Americas before the great final battle and even before the advent of Christ among the Nephites. We have come far more nearly complying with our obligation towards them than towards the indigenous mainland groups. > ~~ Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will come unto me ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive; and blessed are those who come unto me (3
Nephi, 9:14).