[Complacent by Beulah Huish Sadleir]

Complacent Beulah Huish Sadleir I have a handkerchief pinned to my dress— For fear I shall lose it, Like all of the rest. I have a memory pinned to my heart— No cause to worry— The pin is a dart. Beauty Gs in &verything Gene Romolo Beauty is in everything Molded by the hand of God, From mankind, his masterpiece, To the emerald-bladed sod, But only faith-filled cyes can see Its imprint of divinity, American Pottery and Porcelain Part I Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson OR a good many years Americans showed little interest in their native pottery makers.
From the day that Mary Chilton Winslow and Priscilla Mullins Alden set out their sturdy English pewter to receive the first meal cooked in their new homes, and, for almost a hundred years thereafter, hardly a mention is made of the men or establishments which supplied the earthen pots in which these good wives must have cooked their beans, the vessels which they used for carrying water, or the crocks for storing butter, pickles, or oysters. Yet, the Virginia Colony is supposed to have had commercial potteries by 1650, and lists of Dutch settlers in New York contain names of "Pot-Bakers" as early as 1657.
Perhaps the Pilgrim father accepted "pot-baking" as his responsibility during the cold and confining New England winters or, perhaps, a neighboring farmer turned out crocks to barter for other household necessities. At any rate, the task was not considered worthy of historical mention. In 1684, Daniel Coxe of Burlington, New Jersey, set up a pottery which, tradition states, turned out "white stoneware," probably of the salt-glazed type, which was being produced by contemporary Staffordshire potters. No known examples of his handiwork have come down to us. Page 232 A hundred years later a famous English potter, William Cookworthy, informs us that American potters were doing a high quality of work. He wrote to a friend in 1745, that the potters of Virginia were producing "china ware...." equal to the Asiatic from "petuntse and kaolin" to be found "in the back of Virginia." The Cherokee natives called the clay "unaker," and several English firms—Bow, Worcester, Bristol, and Wedgwood— seem to have been importing it for use in their china making. A number of Staffordshire potters immigrated to North Carolina and set up a pottery, and even the eminently successful Josiah Wedgwood was fearful lest they might eventually capture his large American market. He could not foresee that American housewives were to continue their prejudice in favor of English wares and against American for many generations to come. Josiah Wedgwood need not have worried! A hundred and fifty years later, the descendants of those Staffordshire immigrants were still practicing their family trade in the mountains of North Carolina, with their mountaineer neighbors as their only customers. One old potter, ironically enough, was named Josiah Wedgwood Sheffield! He pronounced it "Shuffle."
Potters from Staffordshire had settled in New York, Pennsylvania, AMERICAN POTTERY AND PORCELAIN and New Jersey, also, and the socalled "Pennsylvania Dutch" ware, with its interesting tulip and bird designs, was inspired, probably, as much by the slip ware of Staffordshire as the faience of Germany and Holland. It was made in the same manner as its European forerunner, with yellow slip trailed onto red earthenware or, occasionally, a light background, decorated with a darker design.
Pieces marked "Mary's Dish," "Baby's Dish," "Mince Pie," "Shoofly," or merely dates and initials, indicate that much of this slip ware was made for gifts. HE Revolution started a "Buy American" movement and, for a time, it looked as though the American ceramic industry was to have its chance at last. A pottery established at Bennington, Vermont, in 1793, was one of the most successful. At first, ordinary red earthenware was made, but after the discovery of a kaolin bed at Monkton, Vermont, in 1810, better things were produced, among them, yellowware, made of clay which burned.
Buff color instead of red, Rockingham, which was_ yellowware with a dark brown mottled glaze, and Parian ware, the product which made the Bennington factory famous.
Parian is an unglazed white, soft porcelain or bone china, and had been a popular product of the eighteenth century French factories and, later, the Spode factory of England.
Lovely vases, pitchers, and small figures were produced at Bennington, many of them ornately modeled, and sometimes tinted to resemble Wedgwood's jasper ware. In 1825, the Jersey Porcelain and Earthenware Company began mak- 533 ing the first true porcelain to be produced in the United States.
Other factories in New Jersey and around Philadelphia had hopeful beginnings, also, only to be spurned by the housewife for the floods of English cream-colored ware shipped over by Wedgwood and his fellow business men.
They catered to the patriotism of the new nation with portraits of Revolutionary heroes and battle scenes, even depicting their own generals in humiliated defeat, in their determination to retain the American market.
Then came the spacious days of the clipper ships, when American china cupboards were stocked with oriental porcelains which sea-faring BENNINGTON VASE Nineteenth Century American
534 PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH PLATE husbands brought home from their long voyages. "Buy American" was forgotten, and even the Bennington factory had to turn out its fine products unmarked, for fear that the ladies might turn aside unless they could be led to believe that it was made in England. White House china purchases reflected the attitude of the times. Martha Washington used gold and white Sevres for best and blue and white Nanking ware for everyday. Dolly Madison also favored French wares. During John Quincy Adam's administration, Congress passed a law requiring that White House furnishings be Americanmade when possible. In spite of this, no domestic china was considered suitable for formal State dinners throughout many administrations to come. The best that could be done in that regard, from Lincoln's to Garfield's era, was to use the French products of the American Mr. Haviland. At last, when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950
President and Mrs.
Wilson needed a new State dinner service, a true American product, Lenox china, was found to equal the finest wares of any nation, and, since that time, the White House has been proud ) to "Buy American." URING the years when the frontier was pushing westward, ¥ American ceramic efforts dwindled to the production of kitchen dishes, purchased from the peddler, who became the chief outlet for the potteries of the New Jersey, Ohio, and West Virginia districts.
Many of these kilns had been set up by immigrant potters from England, who saw no reason why the good clays of America could not be utilized with as much financial success as those of the Old Country.
They soon found that the transfer-printed wares of Staffordshire came first in the hearts of our pioneer grandmothers, even in the backwoods of Ohio and Illinois, so they confined their efforts to providing a serviceable white kitchenware which they variously called white granite, stone china, or ironstone.
Some of it was decorated with underglaze printing, but the great mass was of an ugly blue-white, without decoration of any sort. The idea that even common kitchen utensils could be beautiful had not yet taken hold. An ever-increasing population needed dishes, however, so the OhioWest Virginia potteries prospered. Today, this area contains around a hundred and twenty-five ceramic plants, turning out many varieties of wares, chiefly of the moderate to inexpensive type.
Hotel china, a hard and completely vitrified prod- AMERICAN POTTERY AND PORCELAIN 535 uct, is made by many companies. Limoges Company are paying inFor home use, such firms as Homer creased attention to beautiful shape Laughlin, Steubenville, Salem Chiand graceful decoration, for even na Company, and the American their most inexpensive products. ANNA MAE BRANCH, PRICE, UTAH, MAKES HER COLLECTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES AVAILABLE TO CARBON STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS Anna Mae Branch has a hobby which is both interesting and useful. She makes her large collection of Relief Society Magazines available to anyone requesting references for lesson work, programs, histories, sermons, and addresses.
Whenever one of the Relief Society Magazines is listed as a reference, Sister Branch has it and is very generous in letting anyone have access to this valuable "Magazine library," which includes many bound volumes, and is complete for the past thirty-five years. Sister Branch, who has been an active Relief Society worker for fifty years, has found the Magazine ''a treasure house" in her activities. She writes: "The first volume of the Relief Society outlines or lesson work was called The Relief Society Bulletin and was published during the year 1914. 'The following year, _1915, the publication was called The Relief Society Magazine, and Susa Young Gates was the editor. In that year President Joseph F.
Smith sent the Magazine this greeting: 'Accept my sincere congratulations and heartiest greetings in honor of the birth of The Relief Society Magazine. May it enter upon its noble mission so firmly entrenched about by bulwarks of capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious.' " Dark in the Chrysalis Alice Morrey Bailey CuaPTER 8 (COoNcLUusION) DITH returned to the house alone after the funeral.
Cory had stayed at the cemetery to oversee the completion of his mother's burial.
Edith had overheard Mrs.
Hartley her home for dinner and thought that would be good for him, rather than to come back to this house, so deadly quiet after the great activities of the past three months.
Amanda came out from the kitchen when she heard Edith come in. "Would you like me to fix you something, Mrs. Ashe?" she asked. "No, thank you, Amanda," Edith said. She was more than just weary. She was wrung out. She sat at the telephone and called Kit. "T am ready to come home, Kit," she told him. "Of course you understand it is only until I find some other work." "Now, Mother," Kit said. "Don't feel that way. You know you are welcome here as long as you live. I don't like to think of you off working." "We'll talk about it when I get there. How soon can you come?" "Whenever you say, Mother.
Right away if you like." "Tl be ready in half an hour," Edith told him. "You're not leaving?" said Amanda when she hung up. "Yes, right away," Edith replied. "You see my job is finished. With Mrs.
Lewis dead and Linnie gone, there is nothing left for me to do." "Why, that's right," agreed Page 536 invite him to - Amanda wonderingly. "Somehow I just never thought of your leaving. You got so close to them it seemed like you was one of the family. It just seemed like Mr.
Lewis might—" "Might what, Amanda?"
Edith couldn't resist asking. "Well, I dunno.
Might keep you on, I guess. Laws, it's going to be lonesome and funny with you gone, too." "Yes, it is, isn't it?"
Edith agreed absently. She was thinking of herself and the days ahead. She was ready when Kit drove up. She had been careful to remember everything, in order not to have to return for anything. In a few days, when Cory had time to think, she would telephone him and find out when he would want her to take her furniture. She looked at it now, as she came around the curve in the stair. The late afternoon sun drifted through the Venetian blinds, slanted on the carpet, etching the graceful bannister with light and casting the lovely shadows of flowers on the walls.
Never before, and never again would she see her beloved furniture in such a setting.
Love of this house had grown on her until it was like leaving her own home, but it was more than the furniture that tugged at her now.
These walls were haunted with Linnie's slender grace, her fluted song and the gallantly eager lift of her head. And Grammy!
Almost any minute, now, it seemed, Grammy DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS would come wheeling out of the dining room, her black eyes snapping, her tongue ready with its wit.
Such profound things as marriage and death did something to a house. THEY had no more profound effect, however, than a house could have on its occupants.
Austere and chill and unbeautiful, it could stilt and frustrate the spirit.
Made into a home it could be a liberating agent, as this one had been iridescent wings for the hidden beauties of the soul. It was more than a matter of upholstery, fabric, wood, and the money to buy them. It was a matter of love and pride, of self-respect and artisanship, a satisfying of the hungers, human and divine, that were inherent in every person. It was a stage and a setting for drama. On this stair Cory's hand had touched hers; his voice speaking her name, had poised her here, suddenly still. It was best to go now, quickly, leaving this profound thing, which could not even be called her love for Cory, abortive and unfulfilled within these walls.
Beside them Annette's house was flat and utilitarian, and had less appeal than ever to Edith.
Annette hovered over her anxiously at dinner, straining to make her feel at home. "Why, Mother! How you have changed! I had no idea you were so pretty. I love the way you do your hair, and your new clothes are stunning. I didn't know you had such marvelous taste." Her words should have touched the joy of victory in Edith's heart, because it was obvious that Annette remembered her own indictment of her mother-in-law only a few months 537 previous. 'The words that had stung Edith so bitterly then stirred no feeling in her now. She had thought and felt so much since then, had had so much fulfillment that the little scene seemed long ago and far away. It held significance only in the fact that it had catapulted her into one of the richest experiences in her life. "Eat more of your dinner, Mother," Kit was. Saying. "Annie's fixed your favorite recipes." "Thank you, Annette," smiled Edith. "I'm afraid I am more weary than hungry tonight." "And.
Already talking about another job," Kit exploded. "Well, you can just forget that idea." "No, I think not, Kit. I found it quite exciting to earn my Own money, to be an individual rather than a parasite.
There are some things I must see to—get my furniture back home—" Annette looked stricken. "That room—" she said. "I've fixed it up for—" "No matter," said Edith. "I can store the furniture down town until I find something to do with it— take an unfurnished apartment, maybe. It all depends upon what I find to do." "Mother," Kit said, '"Annette's fixed the room for a nursery." "Kit! Annette!" said Edith, stirred from her lethargy of mind to real elation. "That's wonderful!" "I—we hoped that you would be here, well to see Annette through—" "Why, of course I will," said Edith. "That's what mothers are for."' "Then you can forget about go ing to work again.
This once was all right—a lark, but no more of it." "Nonsense," said Edith. "I have 538 no intention of sitting down here with you young folks any more. It will be months before Annette needs me, and the n only for a few weeks of time." HE excused herself as soon as possible and went upstairs. A warm bath and to bed, she thought.
Sleep would relieve her mind from the terrible apathy that had descended upon it again after the excitement of hearing about Kit's baby. In spite of her brave words and her resolutions, life stretched bleakly into an uninteresting future, without beauty, without richness, with nothing real ahead, except old age. ~The bath did not bring sleep, and Edith lay, refusing to think, wanting not to feel, for either would bring the two things.
That she just now could not bear—homesickness for Cory's house, loneliness for Cory. "Mother," said Annette, knocking softly. "Yes?" said Edith. "Mr.
Lewis is on the telephone." "Mr. Lewis?" asked Edith, leaping up, excitement exploding within her.
Whatever this thing was in her veins it had to be stopped, wiped out, killed. "Probably calling about the furniture, or my last check," she said. "Tell him I've gone to bed— that I'll call him tomorrow." "T did, but he said it was urgent." "Oh, all right," said Edith, getting into robe and slippers.
After all it was only nine o'clock. _ "Thave to see you. Tonight," Cory said when she answered the telephone. "If it's the furniture—" began Edith. "Tt isn't the furniture," said Cory. "Or your check. How long will it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1950 | take you to dress?" "Not long. Fifteen. Minutes," said E: dith wonderingly. "Tl call for you," said Cory and hung up. | Fdith's fingers shook while she dressed and she was unable to control the slow pounding that began in her heart.
Cory was there in ten minutes, conversing with Kit and | Annette, his hat in his hand, when she came down. He looked perfectly normal with the exception of his weariness. He barely glanced at Edith, but got up, opened the door for her as he finished his conversation with Kit, and bade them good night, and followed her out. He put her in the car without a word and went around to the driver's side. | "Lean back. Relax," he commanded her, starting the car. It was good to do just that while Cory drove, letting the little fire of curiosity die down. 'The breeze that lifted her hair was pleasant.
Cory nosed the car to higher ground above the city until it lay below them like a lap of jewels.
Still he drove, entering a nearby canyon, turning and twisting on the road, silhouettes of pines and the steep sides of hills racing past them.
Finally he achieved a small plateau, turned off the road, and stopped. "This is a favorite place of mine," he said then, and went on talking dispassionately, tracing the canyons and watercourses from their point of vantage. HE just couldn't bear staying in the house, Edith decided. In all that emptiness.
This ride had no significance, no better reason. Of course it was urgent.
Losing his DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS mother, much as it might have been expected, by her age, was a cataclysm, one she well knew, but she had thought him adequately taken care of for the evening.
What had happened to dinner, and to Mrs. Hartley? "Look at the moon," she said, wondering how many millions of people had made that same observation. "In town the lights outdo it, make it look like a cheap prop, but out here it comes into its own." It looked close enough to touch and its white light bathed the world. "I hope it shines like that on Linnie and Paul, wherever they are. It's a real honeymoon." "My guess is the Canadian woods. Otherwise, some of my telegrams would have reached them. In a way, I'm glad they didn't. It will hurt Linnie not to have been here, but on the other hand, she will remember mother like she saw her last— happy and excited, and peppery as they come. Then, too, their honeymoon should not be marred."
Then that wasn't what was on Cory's mind, thought Edith, still casting frantically for clues to tonight's meeting. If it was that he just wanted to ease his mind and talk of June and the moon and nature, then she would humor him, she decided, but her next words betrayed her, as usual. "Cory, I know it's your mother. Iam so sorry. I feel that I neglected her to help Linnie. She might still be with you if I hadn't." "Don't say such a thing! Don't even think it," said Cory vehemently. "It was her time to go.
Mother was eighty-five, you know." "But if only she could have 539 stayed a month more, until Linnie and Paul were back to bear it with you.
Having them both leave the same day was too hard for you." "No one consults us about those things," Cory said. "My mother died happy, and she did so because of you. You know yourself that she was bitter, confined to the loneli-.
Ness of her room, longing for death when you came. "Look what you did!
Gave her an interest in life—got her out of that dark room, let her participate in the preparations for Linnie's wedding. She loved it, I tell you. She was happy right up to the last minute. She went to sleep happy, and she didn't wake up. I wouldn't have it different." "Then— what is it—troubling your" Edith asked, a_ horrible thought overcoming her. If he asks me to help with his wedding I just— "It's you, Edith." "Me?" asked Edith ungrammatically, her heart stopping dead still. "T've looked at this thing from every angle, argued myself black in the face, tried to put myself in Linnie's place. It isn't that I didn't love her mother. It all comes out to the same thing. It's as real as the back of my hand," Cory said, holding up his hand to look at it in the moonlight. "I love you, Edith. I want to marry you and live with you the rest of my life." DITH looked at him and could not speak for the waves of joy that shook her from head to foot. "Does that surprise you so much, Edith? I told Linnie right in front (Continued on page 574) "Just a Housewife!"' Winifred N. Jones FELT I would explode. If I heard just one more woman on just one more radio program say just one more time, "I'm just a housewife!" She did! Why must women insist on being apologetic about being a housewife— or, if you prefer, homemaker?
Practically every woman spends most of her first twenty-five years trying to become a wife and housekeeper and then immediately starts feeling sorry for herself because she has what she wanted! Any woman who is a good homemaker has nothing on earth for which to apologize. She must furnish hard work, intelligence, ingenuity, and an unlimited amount of patience for the job.
Successful homemaking can and will give a woman enormous satisfaction if she will bring to it the same time, attention, and interest a job outside of her home would demand of her.
This belittling attitude so many women adopt toward homemaking breeds the very things that make it unattractive for them, carelessness and inefficiency and monotony and drudgery to household tasks. In contrast, the woman who keeps her home in shipshape order has time for activities that will keep her mentally alert and stimulated. She doesn't always have left-over jobs to do! The woman who opens a can of soup or puts together a tasteless sandwich at lunchtime for herself and children can't help feeling that cooking is a bore. But the lady of Page 540 the house who prides herself on always setting an attractive and appetizing meal on the table enjoys doing it.
Women are not honest with themselves about this thing.
They spend time daydreaming about being a big cog in an exciting office, when, in truth, they would probably be very small wheels in very monotonous jobs. A woman who wears houseslippers most of the day in her home frets about how ting her housework is. How long does she think those tenderized feet would last holding her up behind a counter all day! Has the woman who moans about the trial of having to wash dishes three times a day ever worked in a bindery where they handle thousands of identical sheets of paper over and over and over? Doesn't the woman who complains about her husband's desire to stay home evening after evening ever recall that the reason she married him was "'so we can be alone together'? It's up to her to make that time together as interesting now as it was then! She can— if she will insist on bringing attractiveness into: her home. HEAR women saying it can't be done on limited budgets. Nonsense. Of course having plentv to do with helps, but a little imagination and hard work pay higher home dividends. Let her forget what. Her neighbor has or has not in her house.
After all, she and her family must live in theirs! Adjust JUST A HOUSEWIFE the home necessities to the desires of the family. That's the strongest long-range standard. It is usually the woman who complains about a lack of clothes who remarks in the next breath, "IT never sew. It bores me." She is also the woman who doesn't realize that the most expensive clothes anil those selected by "best-dressed" women are those that are individually tailored, not those turned out by the hundreds in factories.
This same attitude is reflected in her relationship with her children. Picnics, parties, family reading hours, and established Christmas traditions are absent from the home of the woman who whines, "The children nearly wear me out!" 541
Women will argue that society doesn't expect every man to be a doctor, lawyer, or ditch-digger, but expects every woman to be a good homemaker. Very well, but society also expects every man to give his time, energy, and devotion to his job. Should less be expected of a woman? She chose to be a housewife! The woman who fails at being a homemaker and dreams of an exciting and successful career as a business woman fails to recognize that routine, application to detail, and performing an unpleasant job are also essential to a business career. She also forgets that she is working © for, and with the man whom she selected to be her companion in the building of an eternal home. Jo Carol On the Death of Her Mother Margaret B. Shomaker If words could pierce sorrow's brittle pain And touch the weeping heart, to ease its grie f, My trembling lips would sing a sweet refrain In hope the tone would bring you sure relief. Then I would take a splinter from the moon And lead you from this sorrow, dark as night, To where the lips and heart caress a tune And tired eyes tum with courage to the light. But from my lips only a muted cry; Held in my heart the tone of silent song, Caught like a bird in prison from the sky. Please let me hold your hand in silence strong, For unsaid words will vibrate sorrow's air And you will understand my wordless prayer. The Washstand—1950
Versiant Kathryn Jane Collins IXTY years or so ago, when there was no hot water rushing from the tap at the turn of a handle, a small washstand with a pitcher and bowl standing on top was a prominent feature of almost every bedroom. At the washstand you scrubbed and polished yourself! Today, these very same wash- 'stands, when refinished in a simple and inexpensive way, add charm and beauty to our homes.
These small, low chests of drawers are very versatile and can be used in many ways. Usually, they have one long drawer across the top and the lower part of the washstand is divided into two sections, one side with a door and the other side with two smaller drawers. The wood is usually solid. The ones I have seen have been made of walnut, oak, maple, or cherry.
Since these washstands were so common, probably way back in your basement or hidden in your attic under all those things that such places usually collect.
Maybe you have an aunt or a cousin who has one. If these sources fail, perhaps the secondhand store might have one.
With a mirror hung.
Above the washstand to give you a glimpse of yourself or to give your guests a chance to straighten their ties and fix that wayw washstand makes a hall inviting. You can use one in the dining room as a useful server and store silver in the drawers and tall vases Page 542 you have one. Ard lock, the You will need rags and an old paint brush, which can be thrown away in the cabinet section. An excellent bedside table can be made from one, or an extra chest of drawers for all those things that seem to collect. For the lady who sews, it is just the place for all her sewing supplies. We use ours for a radio cabinet.
After removing the old varnish, I found the top to be a lovely piece of burl-grained maple. I removed the door panel and replaced it with a piece of ordinary wire lathe, the kind used in plastering. First, I gilded it, and the result is an attractive grilled door. The radio speaker will be hidden behind this grill, which will have a piece of tapestry tacked to the back. We plan to cut off the front panel from the upper small drawer and hinge it to pull down and expose the dials. The bottom drawer will hold the radio chassis and tubes. To refinish one of these pieces is very simple.
First remove any hardware and examine it carefully before discarding it. A little paint remover used on the hardware may reveal beautiful old brass handles and knobs. If not, you can purchase very nice copies of antique hardware at the store.
Before beginning the refinishing, protect your hands with gloves and protect the floor with newspapers.
After the work is completed.
Begin by removing the drawers and placing the washstand on its THE WASHSTAND—1950 VERSION back so that the front is horizontal with the floor.
Spread paint remover on generously with the brush and let it stand until the surface begins to crack. Then, working with the grain, use a putty knife or some similar object to remove the old paint or varnish. Get into the corners and flutings.
Then do the top, and the sides. 'Try to have each section in a horizontal position when applying the paint remover so that. It will not run off.
After all the old — finish is off, apply another coat and wipe off thoroughly with rags.
Then wipe all the surfaces with alcohol to remove any wax left by the paint remover.
Sand any surfaces with the grain of the wood. You may find that the whole - piece needs staining. If you wish to stain it be sure to try 'dipped in benzine. Rough - 543 samples of your stain in an inconspicuous corner before applying it all over.
After some searching, I found a mahogany stain in the lovely dark purple tones one finds in good furniture.
Stain the piece and let it dry thoroughly. Now you are ready for the final step. 'There are several ways to finish off the washstand. You can varnish the surface, then rub down with pumice and oil. To remove excess pumice, wipe with a cloth Then polish with a chamois. Or the waxed finish may appeal to you. Wax thoroughly; rub with steel wool and then with a chamois. Let this stand for a week; then wax and rub down again.
Continue until the piece has a lovely patina. I myself prefer the oil finish.
This finish takes much wear, will not scratch as varnish does, and brings out the grain of the wood. For it I mix two parts of linseed oil with one part of turpentine and bring to a boil. 'Then cool and, with a soft cloth, apply to a small section, rubbing it in well for five to twenty minutes on each section.
When you finish, the wood should be dry and unable to absorb more. 'Do not let the oil remain on top in a sticky film. Rub always with the grain of the wood.
Then wait a week and apply more. In another week, apply still more.
Four or five applications should give the finish you want. By now, the washstand, with glowing handles and a beautiful, mellow patina, is ready for a new and useful life. You will be greatly repaid for the small amount of time you have spent. She (Best Sime of Your Life | Ezra J. Poulsen 4 you were asked the question, "What was the best time of your life?" you should be able to answer, especially if you are past fifty, "Right now."
Your accumulation of experience, with its attendant wit and wisdom, gives you every advantage over those of less mature years. The old philosophy that life follows the ascending scale up to forty, then slowly declines to the end, is about as useful as ox-team transportation, typhoid fever, and superstition. Today, we ate capable of seeing brighter vistas. We might think of ourselves as travelers in a country of endless beauty and challenge, with the brightest prospects and most intriguing situations just ahead. To do this is to keep young and eager in spirit. Wouldn't it have been a tragic joke on the children of Israel if Moses, at the age of sixty or seventy, had folded up his tent and decided it was too late to engage in any important undertakings? Of course, we would never have heard of him; his real life's work hadn't begun at that age.
Like the palm tree, which produces its finest dates after it reaches the first hundred years, we should grow richer in production and maturity with the passing of time. The roster of fame is filled with the deeds of those in the upper barckets of years, who have gone jauntily on with their work and their dreams, too busy to stop and think. Of their infirmities. Benjamin West (1738-1820), the great painter, completed two of his most important productions, "Death on the Pale Horse," and "Christ Healing the Sick," when he might be considered to have been an old man. At the age of eighty, he was still - president of the Royal Academy. — William Wordsworth did not attain the office of poet laureate of England until 1843, when he was seventy-three. And Edmund Burke, the great English statesman, born in 1729, was nearly sixty when he delivered his masterful speech against Warren Hastings. Perhaps, we would not be very well acquainted with the name of Alfred Tennyson today if he had belonged to the "cult of youth," for he accomplished his greatest works, such as "Enoch Arden' (1864) and "The Holy Grail' (1869) when he was past fifty and in his sixties. "Crossing the Bar' did not see the light of day until 1889, when the poet was beyond eighty. 'hough the vears may require a reasonable slowing down of one's physical activity, they impair but little, if any, the mental and spiritual robustness of those who enjoy growth and service.
Even on the physical side, we are inclined to coddle ourselves too much. We do too much tapering off, and pinching out. General Winfield Scott was past sixty at the time he won his great victories in the Mexican war, and, in 1852 at sixty-six, he became a candidate for the presidency of the United States. Likewise, Zachary Taylor, the hero of Monterey, became President in 1849, at the age of sixty-four. Page 544 ® THE BEST TIME OF YOUR LIFE. 545
Many great mental achievements have flowered in ripened minds. Maria Edgeworth's novel Helen, comprising three volumes, was published (1834) when she was sixty-eight years old, and it is considered one of her best works. The time to be of good cheer, to enjoy one's friends, and to accomplish interesting and worthy achievements is always now, even if you are ninety years young. <_< Wrllowware Plate Irene Storey My eyes wander over A willowware plate And rest on Koong Shee, Who, the legends relate, Parted with Chang In the dim long ago, Still waiting the summons, For all that I know. Still stands the blue tower Beside the blue gate, At which Koong Shee Seems forever to wait. Undimmed and unchanged, Nor days seem to matter, As they drift into years On my blue willow platter. Se" ea "LEARN TO LABOR AND TO WAIT" Caroline Eyring Miner OVER and over goes the little tune (and the name tune is questionable). Helen, our eight-year-old, is practicing her piano lesson. She stretches her fingers and she halts in her tempo and withal she labors most diligently. 'The rest of the family? We grit our teeth and we wait—wait for the time when she will either give up or will be able to play at least two tunes in a fairly facile manner, but wait we must. But we are all learning an important lesson. If one is eventually to reap, one must sow, and that well in advance of the harvest. Success does not come easily. We have to labor, and with it we have to be patient until the harvest comes. The Curies in their search for radium worked and waited during the long years for their labors to bear fruit. They had sufficient vision and belief in what they were doing to keep them laboring and waiting. And such is the story of every great scientist, inventor, and artist.
A little foresight and thought and ambition and desire, and we may launch upon a project of large or small dimensions. We may keep working and waiting until the projected dream becomes a reality. The Helens will continue to practice their scales upon the piano, the Jimmies will puff their cheeks until they fairly burst, learning to play the trombone, and we shall all await the day of the fulfillment of their dreams, and labor and wait also for the fruition of our own.

From The Field
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer
All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123.
RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES
Photograph submitted by Jessie Reese
SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), SMITHFIELD FOURTH WARD BAZAAR
November 1949
Standing, left to right: First Counselor Rachel Hillyard; President Vera Roskelly;
Second Counselor Fern Heaps; Secretary-Treasurer Vera Noble; work meeting leader
Afton G. Smith.
Describing the activities which preceded the bazaar, this enthusiastic society reports:
"Last fall we had one of the most successful bazaars ever held in our ward. We commenced in February 1949 by calling for all available used and unused materials which could be made into rugs or whatever else the materials might be suited for. The response was overwhelming and enough material was brought or sent in to keep the members very busy until the bazaar in November. The average summer attendance was between forty and fifty women and the increased activity brought the members closer together and the entire project resulted in a great deal of good accomplishment, both spiritually and financially."
Alta C. Allen is president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society.
Page 546

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
547
Photograph submitted by Lucille H. Spencer
NEBO STAKE (UTAH), SPRING LAKE WARD, FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY
PRESIDENTS HONORED AT A VALENTINE'S PARTY, February 14, 1950
Front row, seated, left to right: La Vona Thomas; Annie Menlove; Hortense
Butler.
Back row, standing, left to right: Rhea Menlove, present president; Cecil Peery;
Lucille Spencer.
All Relief Society members over sixty-five years of age were especially honored at this social.
Lucille H. Spencer is president of Nebo Stake Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Mima Hainsworth
PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON), COLONIAL HEIGHTS WARD RELIEF
SOCIETY DISPLAYS BEAUTIFULLY DESIGNED QUILTS
AT THE BAZAAR, November 4, 1949
Laura Ross, assistant work meeting leader and Josephine N. Olsen, work meeting leader, are shown in front of the quilts.
Also displayed were fifty aprons, a large number of towels, luncheon cloths, embroidered pillow cases, and a beautiful assortment of baby jackets, dresses, layettes, dolls, and dozens of other articles. Officers of the Colonial Heights Ward Relief Society are: President Alice B. Kraft; First Counselor Vera Remington; Second Counselor Nell
B, Smart; Secretary -Treasurer Ethel Hurlburt.
Mima Hainsworth is president of Portland Stake Relief Society.

548
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— AUGUST 1950
Photograph submitted by LaVon Jacobson
LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), HOLLYWOOD WARD RELIEF
SOCIETY PRESIDENTS ASSEMBLED AT ANNIVERSARY DAY
LUNCHEON, March 14, 1950
Left to right: President La Von Jacobson; former presidents: Agnes Sloanie Nibley;
Ella Perkins; Geneva Cooper; Isabelle Smith; Elizabeth Denhalter; Mary Watkins.
Inset: Velma Richardson.
Former presidents not in the photograph are: Kate Nielson; Irene McCullough;
Frances Conover; Ida E. Nelson; Ethel Peterson (deceased).
Dorothy Koer is president of Los Angeles Stake Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Edna J. Kindred
SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO), SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH
MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, May 14, 1950
Eileen Weaver, the accompanist, is seated at the left on the first row; Edna Kindred, Stake Rehef Society President, is standing second from the left in the front row;
Uarda Wliiting, Second Counselor, is tenth from the left, first row.
Blonda Knight, the chorister, stands at the right on the second row.
Vera Hart, First Counselor, stands fouith from the left in the third row,

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
549
Edna J. Kindred, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports the closing of a season of successful activities: "Tuesday, May 23rd, we held our stake
Relief Society closing social, with about 200 women in attendance. We had a lovely program, followed by a display of handwork which included most of our 1950 Welfare sewing assignment, along with many other lovely things. We made a little souvenir booklet which we presented to each sister as she came in. We also have a stake Singing
Mothers group, consisting of sixty-one members, who sang at stake conference (May
14th) and at our closing social."
Photograph by Keith Studio, Bellingham, Washington
Submitted by Birdie S. Bean
SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON), BELLINGHAM WARD PAGEANT
"MOTHERS OF MEN," March 17, 1950
Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth Bradbury as Rebekah; Ruby Smith as a pioneer mother.
Second row, seated, left to fight: Emily Newberry as Eve; Etta Pratt as Sariah;
Elma Hansen as a Pilgrim mother; Jule McEntire as a mother of today; First Counselor
Ranghild Safsten as Lucy Mack Smith; lola Kent as Nancy Hanks.
Seated, center, rear: Mary Rowe, as Mary, the mother of Jesus.
Back row, standing, left to right: Thelma Umphcnour, accompanist; Elizabeth
Salmon, director; President Rae Linde; Second Counselor Ella M. Petric.
Birdie S. Bean is president of Seattle Stake Relief Society.

550
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— AUGUST 1950
Photographs submitted by Amelia H. Robertson
BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), VISITING TEACHERS OF LOVELL WARD,
LOVELL WEST WARD, AND COWLEY WARD ACHIEVE
A RECORD OF loo PER CENT
Top photograph— Lovell Ward Visiting Teachers. Officers of the Ward Relief
Society are seated in the front row, beginning with the second from the left, left to right: visiting teacher supervisor Aurelia Beddes; Counselor Thelma Corbridgc; President Ida Shumway; Counselor Martha Gorbutt; Secretary Lorainne Fillcrup.
Middle photograph— Lovell West Ward Visiting Teachers. Officers of the Ward
Relief Society, seated in the first row, beginning with the second from the left: Secretary Marcclla Allred; Counselor Lulu Dillon; President Verda Asay. Seated in the second row, beginning with the second from tRe left: visiting teacher supervisors
Edith Marshall and Kate Moncur.
Bottom photograph — Cowley Ward Visiting Teachers. Ward Relief Society officers, seated in the second row, beginning with the second from the left: Counselor
Iva Lewis; Counselor Pauline Stevens; President Geneva Stevens; visiting teacher supervisor Charlotte Mayer; Secretary Lamar Jensen.
Amelia H. Robertson is president of Big Horn Stake Relief Society.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Photograph submitted by Vivian R. McConkie
CALIFORNIA MISSION, WASCO BRANCH DISPLAYS FURNISHINGS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY ROOM
Front row, seated, left to right: Secretary-Treasurer Rae Hager; Second Counselor
Rilla Honor; President Belva Edwards; First Counselor Flossie Hallmark; Louise Whedon.
Second row, standing, left to right: Chorister Barbara Baker; Zella MacDonald;
Iris Dverksen; June Hawkins; Ruth Eaton.
Third row, left to right: Ora Eta Gubler; Josephine Spilsbury; Florence Hallmark;
Thora Landrum; Loretta Rose Stuart; Gertrude MacArthur.
The photograph shows the Relief Society members and some of the furnishings of their Relief Society room. The lamps and rugs displayed in the picture were made by the women, and numerous other articles were made for bazaars and welfare work.
Vivian R. McConkie is president of the California Mission Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Erma Croxall
POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO),
POCATELLO FOURTH WARD
RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS
Left to right: President Isabell L. Curl;
First Counselor Verla A. Marley; Second
Counselor Ethel Aldous; Secretary Emma
Puckett, who has been a member of the Ward Relief Society presidency for twelve consecutive years and in that time has missed only one meeting, this occasion being at the time of the death of her sister.
Helen Pugmire is president of Pocatello Stake Relief Society.

552
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— AUGUST 1950
Photograph submitted by Pearl Halverson
GLENDALE STAKE (CALIFORNIA), WEST GLENDALE WARD RELIEF
SOCIETY MEMBERS ASSEMBLED AT THE NEW GLENDALE WEST
WARD CHAPEL AT THE CLOSE OF THE SEASON'S WORK
May 1950
Officers of the society are seated in the front row, left to right: President Pearl
Halverson; Second Counselor Blanche Alvard; First Counselor Barbara James; Secretary-
Treasurer Edith Cooper.
Mary E. Cutler is president of Glendale Stake Relief Society.
Photograph submitted by Verna L. Dewsnup
ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH), HONORS ELDERLY RELIEF SOCIETY
WOMEN AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, April 28, 1950
Front row, left to right: Cora S. Hagan; Jane Moss; Emma Riddle; Effie Dunham;
Avery Jones; Julia Andrus.
Back row, left to right: Mary Woodbury; Mary Reber; Ella Seegmiller; Emma S.
Little; Anna M. Cox; Julia Graff; Ann Rinslasbaugher.
The combined ages of these women, most of whom are still active visiting teachers, is 933 years, and the combined period of time spent as visiting teachers is 572 years.
Verna L. Dewsnup is president of St. George Stake Relief Society.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD
553
Photograph submitted by Faymetta S. Prows
MILLARD STAKE (UTAH), FLO WELL WARD
RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS

Front row, left to right, former Relief Society presidents: Martha F. Bushnell; Rozilpha C. Allen; Adeline A. Brinkerhoof.
Inserts: (left) Rosanna Tucker; (right) Ethel B. Johnson (deceased).
Back row, left to right, former Relief Society presidents: Nona C. Tomkinson; Faun W. Utley; Virgie W. Ivy; Fauntella D. Robison, present president.
Faymetta S. Prows is president of Millard Stake Relief Society.

Parting

Christie Lund Coles

Say it was something born of the night,
Fragile as the shadow-face of trees
Lying on water, shimmering and bright,
Say it was stars—Venus, the Pleiades,
Say it was only, only these.

Say it was night sounds, delicate,
Whispered in the tall, dew-speckled grass;
Say it was wind, sudden and intimate,
Say it was skies, luminous as glass.
Say it was these and let it pass.