[Work Meeting: Color in the Home by Christine H. Robinson]

Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Color in the Home Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, November 14, 1950 (Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot, chapter 34). OLOR is of vital importance in every phase of home decorating.
From windows, walls, and floors to furniture and accessories, the color in your home speaks boldly of your judgment and taste. No other decorating element so surely reflects your individuality and so definitely influences the charm, beauty, and comfort of your home. The use of color is one of the most challenging of all home decorating problems. It is challenging because, with no variation in the amount of money spent, a home may be dull, monotonous, and uninviting, or it can be a place of beauty, restfulness, and hospitality. It all depends upon individual good judgment and good taste.
While the study of color is a science, still the art of producing beautiful color harmonies in a room is not difficult if a few simple guides are followed. One of the chief reasons for the misuse of color is that many people are afraid of it. In your home do not be afraid of color.
Take full advantage of its magic to express your individuality and preferences. One of the first guides in the use of color is suitability.
Suitability means that color combinations should be selected in accordance with your own tastes and preferences and the needs of your home. The color scheme you decide on should be pleasing, restful, and relaxing to you and to your family, and yet, give you the necessary stimulation and spiritual uplift.
Color should not be used indiscriminately. 'Too many colors in a room produce an effect of confusion, while too few may produce a monotonous and usually dull effect. In your decorating, confine yourself to the use of three, never more than four main colors, and employ these in balanced proportions. An easy guide to remember is to choose one dominant color and use this in approximately fifty per cent of your room, such as on your walls, woodwork, and carpet. A secondary color should have about a thirty per cent proportion.
This could be used in varying light and dark tones on your furniture and draperies.
Then let the remaining twenty per cent be used as accent colors, perhaps on one chair, on lamps, and with accessories. An interesting color scheme is obtained only through the use of light, medium, and dark tones in a room.
Colors should carry from brilliant to soft grayed tones. The grayed tones are best for the larger areas, such as your rugs, walls, and ceilings.
Medium light tones can be used on draperies, slip covers, and 562 upholstery.
Save the brilliant colors for accessories and accents in your room.
Another color guide which will help you achieve a pleasing color combination is to balance properly warm and cool colors in your room. Use small amounts, of warm colors to balance large amounts of cool colors.
Warm colors are those with red or yellow predominating.
Cool colors are those where blue predominates, such as greens and violets.
Colors directly opposite one another on the color wheel are known as complementary colors. Red and _ green are complements, and when used together in their various tones make a pleasing scheme. The same is true of blue and orange which are difficult to use in their pure shade, but which can be used together effectively as coral and turquoise. The third or accent color you choose will depend on whether a warm or cool scheme is wanted. The neutrals, gray or beige, can be used effectively with the other two colors to produce the right color scheme for your home.