[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W.
Cannon ticularly uplifting and inspirational in tone. INNER of the Frank W. Darling Memorial Prize ($50) for a single sonnet, sponsored by the Poetry Society of Virginia, is our own Eva Willes Wangsgaard of Ogden, with her offering "No Barren Bough." | BiLLEN ROMNEY SCHOFIELD, eighty-six, recently died in Los Angeles.
Daughter of Vilate Ellen Romney and Bishop George Romney, Sister Schofield was active in Church work, particularly Relief Society, until her death, and left behind her a host of friends. HE general board has been happy to learn that the Female Samaritan Association, with aims very much like those of the Relief Society, has celebrated its one hundred and twenty-second birthday, having been organized in Portland, Maine, March 4, 1828. It is still active in spiritual and physical charities. So far as is known the Latter-day Saint Relief Society, organized in 1842, is the oldest women's organization of national and _international scope that has persisted. If anyone knows anything to the contrary, the general board would be glad to be given this information.  Q-> EDITORIAL ory 
VOL. 
Work is a Blessing "Blessed is he who has found his work; let him ask no other blessedness."' HERE is a dangerous wave of thinking in our world today which regards work as punishment, as an evil to be avoided. The present tendency seems to be the desire to avoid work, to seek continually for shorter hours, fewer work days, easier tasks, less responsibility—all of these so-called "benefits" to be accompanied by higher compensation. The substance of the matter seems to be a philosophy of giving less and receiving more—of gaining something for nothing. This is a law of 'diminishing returns, a negative and a destructive philosophy. It is the philosophy of the destroyer—not the faith of the builder. Many rich rewards are promised by people who seem to think that wealth and happiness can _ be achieved without effort. We are told that in the perfect society very little work will be necessary. "The necessity of toil is a superstition,' some social planners would have us believe. "That man is expected to work for a living is an absurdity in this age. We must abandon the superstition of the morality of toil and the nonsense of trying to earn a living." Latter-day Saints, as well as other people all over the world, are being subjected to this type of philosophy, and some of them are giving crePage 528 —Thomas Carlyle dence to beliefs that are entirely alien to the teachings of the gospel. According to our doctrine, no earthly kingdom and no heavenly kingdom, can be built without sustained and noble effort. No individual can achieve earthly development or salvation in heaven without work. Rather than seeking to avoid labor, we should seek out the tasks which are commensurate with our strength and our ability, and we should seek even that work which is beyond our present capabilities that we may grow and become "rich in good works." From the very beginning of the Church we have been instructed in the gospel of work. Our communities were built and our valleys made fruitful by the labor of the hands of our forefathers and we shall ourselves become strong and happy only by our own efforts. Brigham Young explained this fundamental belief in simple words of great power: This people are increasing in the wis: dom which cometh from God, and their power to organize the crude elements... Into the necessities of life is in ratio to their increase of intelligence and application of labor.... I do not look for power from the heavens that will produce for us wool, cloth, iron, food, or anything we need, without being made with hands. We should understand what is required of us to sustain ourselves (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 262).