[Vol41 | June 1954 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Poem | Title: Rain | Author: Mackay]
~~~ Ra in Song Verda Mackay Laughing rain in silver tatters Streaks the windowpane and patters Out a harmonizing, merrymaking tune. It would seem that nothing matters To a rain that spanks and spatters All the puddles it creates one afternoon. Page 391] Hal Rumel TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE C. WILLIAMS BAL Different Rind of Bridal Shower Helen S. Williams bride-to-be, a party, the fun of giving a present (different yet useful!) — why any one of the above subjects is excuse enough for a party, but what would be nicer than a kitchen shower for a sweet bride-to-be? There have been all kinds of kitchen showers, but Florence Wilhams decided this one was going to be different. I*irst she found a branch of a scrub oak and sprayed it with bright yellow paint. It was planted securely in a solid foundation of plaster of Paris. Instead of flowers, her yellow oak tree blossomed with copper "Chore Girls," dozens of them. Page 392 A DIFFERENT KIND OF BRIDAL SHOWER 393 The tree was placed in a copper jardiniere which had been filled with moss and greens. Scattered here and there on the table were chore girls, as if a little breeze had blown them down to rest on the pretty yellow cloth with its white embroidery imserts. Sentinels made of wooden-handled stirrers marked the places for each invited guest. Their bow ties were made of stiff white paper, and perky little chef hats made of crepe paper and banded with stiff white paper reposed jauntily above the smiling faces. The eyes, nose, and mouth on each had been done with poster paint. The guests spent the afternoon embroidering dish towels and hemming dust cloths. Each had been asked to bring along with her kitchen shower gift for the bride, a favorite condiment with a recipe in which to use it. 'These were all placed in a clothes basket, which was the gift from the hostess, and presented to the guest of honor after lunch. This kitchen shower was unique and all of the guests had a delightful time.