[Vol41 | June 1954 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Poem | Title: Navajo | Author: Bailey]
[Navajo Cradle Song Alice Morrey Bailey]
FIRST  LADIES  OF  OUR  LAND 
379 
who  were  not  reliable.  His  was  a 
difficult  administration,  with  recon- 
struction and  internal  problems  too 
great  for  adequate  solution.  Presi- 
dent Harding's  wife  stood  helpfully 
by  him  on  all  occasions. 
Social  life  in  the  White  House, 
which  had  been  abandoned  because 
of  the  illness  of  President  Wilson, 
was  resumed.  At  a  May  Day  recep- 
tion Mrs.  Harding  shook  hands 
with  seven  thousand  persons,  which 
left  her  own  hand  so  swollen  her 
glove  had  to  be  cut  from  it.  She 
was  interested  in  welfare  work,  in 
the  schools,  and  in  Girl  Scout  activi- 
ties. 
In  the  midst  of  all  of  Warren 
Harding's  difficulties,  his  devoted 
wife  was  always  beside  him,  even  to 
the  last  scene  "when  death  touched 
him  while  she  was  reading  aloud  to 
him"  (August  2,  1923). 
FLORENCE  KLING  HARDING 
I  Lava  JO   L^radie  Song 
Alice  Money  Bailey 
Go  to  sleep,  little  one,  don't  you  know  it  is  night? 
All  around  you  is  slumber,  yet  your  blaek  eyes  are  bright. 
Dawn  Boy  has  carried  the  sun  to  the  West; 
In  the  Turquoise  One's  house  he  is  now  at  his  rest. 
Long  shadows  have  thickened; 
Outside  is  the  dark, 
And  distant  and  weird 
Is  the  coyote's  thin  bark. 
All  they  of  the  winds,  and  the  deer-folk  are  still. 
And  the  soft-footed  tribe  stalks  its  prey  on  the  hill. 
And  now  the  eyes  of  the  Sky  People  peeping 
At  you  through  the  smoke-hole,  their  watch  of  you  keeping. 
Your  father  is  nodding, 
His  fire  has  burned  low, 
And  his  silver-work  gleams 
In  the  red-embered  glow. 
Your  mother  is  weary,  now  quiet  her  loom. 
Its  bright  pattern  dimmed  in  the  hogan's  soft  gloom. 
Your  sister  is  dreaming,  sleep-flung  on  her  pelt; 
In  the  blue  of  the  firelight  her  small  features  melt. 
Your  brothers  have  watered 
And  bedded  their  sheep, 
And  your  black  eyes  are  drowsy. 
So  sleep,  papoose,  sleep.

Sixtyi    LJears  nyigo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  June  i,  and  June  15,  1894 
*'FoR  THE  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
BRIGIIAM  YOUNG'S  ANNIVERSARY:  This  the  first  day  of  June  is  quite  a 
red-letter  day  among  our  people,  on  account  of  it  being  the  anniversary  of  Brigham 
Young,  who  presided  over  the  Church  so  many  years  and  was  also  truly  a  Moses  unto 
this  people,  a  pioneer  and  leader  into  these  mountain  vales,  where  he  founded  towns 
and  cities,  and  established  order  and  maintained  peace.  .  .  .  Let  his  birthday  be  kept 
ever  fresh  and  green  by  our  children  and  children's  children.  .  .  . 
— EditorfaJ 
TO  THE  SISTERS:  My  thoughts  are  oft  with  my  sisters  and  I  desire  to  commune 
with  them.  .  .  .  Our  dear  little  Exponent  is  our  friend,  and  it  is  a  welcome  visitor 
to  all  our  organizations,  and  through  this  medium  of  communication  I  hope  more  often 
to  correspond  with  the  sisters.  .  .  .  Inasmuch  as  our  long  standing  organizations  have 
been  blessed  to  do  so  much  good  in  relieving  the  needy  in  the  past,  and  there  are  now 
new  duties  requiring  special  attention  .  .  .  and  praying  that  we  nor  any  other  people 
may  ever  lack  bread  or  the  necessities  of  life,  I  feel  it  will  require  us  as  a  people  to 
have  courage  and  firmness  to  meet  distressing  times  .  .  .  utilizing  all  that  we  can  and 
that  we  have,  and  not  going  into  debt.  We  can  teach  our  children  frugality  and  restrain 
them  from  wasting  even  a  piece  of  bread.  .  .  .  My  heart  is  in  the  latter-day  work,  and 
my  prayer  is  that  Zion  may  prosper,  .  .  . 
— Zina  D.  H.  Young,  President,  Relief  Society 
KEEP  THE  LIGHT 
So  keep  the  light  about  you;  death  is  light. 
And  life,  and  power  to  pure  and  chastened  love. 
And  death  is  only  dark  to  doubt,  and  sight 
That  has  no  visions  from  the  world  above. 
— Alice  Robbins 
A  BIRTHDAY  PARTY:  Thursday,  May  3rd  was  the  anniversary  of  the  birthday 
of  two  of  our  dear  sisters,  Susan  H.  Wells  and  Bathsheba  W.  Smith,  and  as  they  are 
intimate  friends,  a  party  was  given  in  their  honor  that  day  at  the  residence  of  Sisters 
L.  A.  and  S.  H.  Wells,  which  was  a  very  pleasant  affair.  .  .  .  Miss  Kate  Wells  and 
her  sisters  Miss  May  Wells  and  Mrs.  Anette  Culmer  did  the  honors  in  a  very  grace- 
ful way,  and  the  delicacies  served  were  highly  appreciated.  .  .  .  The  friends  whom 
one  has  known  to  be  ever  true  in  adversity  as  well  as  prosperity,  should  hold  sweet 
converse  now  and  then  from  the  busy  world  apart. — Editorial  Notes. 
UINTAH  STAKE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE:  Convened  in  the  Stake 
House  March  4,  1894,  Sister  Sarah  Pope  presiding.  Counselor  A.  Bartlett  said  the 
Relief  Societv  was  organized  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  for  a  wise  purpose,  and  also  spoke 
at  some  length  on  the  subject  of  virtue.  Counselor  Mary  Hall  bore  her  testimony. 
Advised  the  sisters  to  read  and  study  good  books  that  they  might  store  up  knowledge 
and  have  something  to  talk  about,  besides  talking  about  their  neighbors,  and  asked  the 
Lord  to  bless  us  in  our  work.  .  .  .  Sister  Robison  spoke  a  few  words  to  the  young  sisters. 
Said  they  must  be  very  kind  to  the  aged,  remember  they  were  the  ones  that  eared  for 
us  when  we  were  small,  be  kind  to  them  and  take  their  counsel  and  the  counsel  of 
parents,  for  remember  we  will  all  be  old  some  day  ourselves.  .  .  .  President  Pope  said  .  .  . 
it  is  but  a  few  short  years  from  the  cradle  to  the  grave,  and  let  us  do  all  the  good  we 
can,  , .  — Addie  Longfellow,  Sec. 
Page  380

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
gELLE  S.  SPAFFORD,  General 
President  of  Relief  Society,  has 
gone  to  Helsinki,  Finland,  as  a  vice- 
president  of  the  National  Council 
of  Women,  to  attend  the  triennial 
meeting  of  the  International  Coun- 
cil of  Women  to  be  held  June 
8-1 8th,  1954.  ^^^^-  Spafford  is  as- 
signed to  the  sessions  on  moral  wel- 
fare. 
jyrARBA  C.  JOSEPHSON,  As- 
sociate Editor  of  The  Improve- 
ment Era,  and  general  board  mem- 
ber of  the  YAV.M.I.A.  will  attend 
the  triennial  meeting  of  the  Inter- 
national Council  of  Women  in  Hel- 
sinki as  an  alternate  delegate  repre- 
senting the  Y.W.M.LA. 
CIXTEEN  prominent  Latter-day 
Saint  women  have  been  memo- 
rialized by  having  the  new  student 
apartments  for  women  at  Brigham 
Young  University  named  for  them. 
The  honored  women  are:  Lucy 
Mack  Smith,  Eliza  R.  Snow,  Em- 
meline  B.  Wells,  Mary  Fielding 
Smith,  Aurelia  S.  Rogers,  Anna 
Meith  Maesar,  Louie  B.  Felt,  Ro- 
mania B.  Penrose,  Alice  R.  Rich- 
ards, Ahce  Merrill  Home,  Ellis  R. 
Shipp,  Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen, 
Louise  Y.  Robison;  and  three  living 
women:  Mima  M.  Broadbent,  Ruth 
May  Fox,  and  Estella  S.  Harris. 
^HE  Lady  of  Arhngton,  a  new 
biography  by  Harnett  Kane, 
based  on  the  life  of  Mary  Custis 
Lee,  is  considered  an  ''authentic" 
narrative,  using  as  its  primary  source 
material  a  large  number  of  letters. 
Mrs.  Lee  was  the  only  child  and 
heiress  of  George  Washington  Parke 
Custis,  the  adopted  son  of  George 
Washington.  Mary  Custis  spent 
most  of  her  girlhood  at  Arlington, 
the  showplace  her  father  built  on 
the  banks  of  the  Potomac.  As  wife 
of  General  Robert  E.  Lee,  during 
the  tragic  days  of  the  Civil  War,  she 
suffered  much  hardship.  She  died 
at  Lexington  in  1873,  three  years 
after  the  death  of  her  husband. 
OIRTHDAY  congratulations  are 
extended  to  Mrs.  Cynthia  L. 
Bailey,  Salt  Lake  City,  ninety-eight; 
Mrs.  Elizabeth  Ann  Nelson  Glover, 
Candon,  South  Carolina,  ninety- 
seven;  Mrs.  Sarah  Ann  Prince  But- 
ler, Eagar,  Arizona,  ninety-six;  Mrs. 
Dorothy  Williams,  Beaver,  Utah, 
ninety-three;  Mrs.  Hannah  Stubbs 
Jones,  Salt  Lake  City,  ninety;  Mrs. 
Celesta  M.  Clark,  Teton  City, 
Idaho,  ninety. 
Page  381