[Vol41 | June 1954 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: — Inspiration, Plus Maryhale Woolsey 360 Writing Is Work Claire W. Noall 364 First Ladies of Our Land — Wives of the Presidents — Part IV •. Elsie C. Carroll 374 When Viewed From a Distance Nora Yaros 412 FICTION The Falling Shackles — Chapter 1 Margery S. Stewart 369 Something Blue Sylvia Probst Young 386 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 380 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 381 Editorial: The 124th Annual Church Conference Marianne C. Sharp 382 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings 384 Music for Special Program, Sunday, November 7, 1954 384 Brigham Young University Leadership Week 384 Tribute to the Singing Mothers _ _ David O. McKay 385 Errata: "Magazine Honor Roll: 393 Safe Method of Freezing Corn 393 Notes from the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 395 From Near and Far 415 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Hulda Peterson, Homemaker and Musician 391 A Different Kind of Bridal Shower Helen S. Williams 392 Housecleaning Nostalgia Vernessa M. Nagle 394 The Scratching Post Elizabeth Williamson 414 LESSON DEPARTMENT — TEACHING AIDS AND PREVIEWS FOR 1954-55 Teaching Aids for the 1954-55 Lessons Edith S. Elliott 400 Theology — Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Leland H. Monson 403 Visiting Teacher Messages — Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Leone O. Jacobs 405 Work Meeting — S-election, Care, and Use of Household Equipment Rhea H. Gardner 406 Literature — The Literature of England Briant S. Jacobs 408 Social Science — The Constitution of the United States Albert R. Bowen 410 POETRY First Love — Frontispiece Lael W. Hill 347 "We Thank Thee O God," | Author: Marjorie Foote 351 My Faith by Jean D. Wright 356 Summer Sorcery by Ouida Johns Pedersen 359 No Barriers by Lavina M. Wood 359 To a Yellow Rose by Gene Romolo, 359 Her Wish Fulfilled, by Elsie McKinnon Strachan,]
in  theme  writing,  public  speaking, 
and  singing. 
Sister  Morris  attained  prominence 
as  the  winner  of  the  vocal  prize  at 
the  National  Eistoddfod  held  in  the 
Salt  Lake  Tabernacle.  The  adjudica- 
tor was  the  famous  Dr.  Parry  who 
came  from  Wales  for  the  occasion. 
This  was  probably  the  beginning  of 
her  musical  career.  Successful  in  her 
studies  in  Berlin,  Germany,  under 
renowned  teachers  like  Madame 
Klara  Klatte  and  Blanche  Corelli, 
she  went  to  Paris,  France,  where  she 
studied  for  several  years  with  Josef 
Archinband.  Her  achievements 
brought  her  to  the  front  in  the 
musical  circles  of  Europe  and 
America.  President  Theodore  Roose- 
velt named  her  ''Utah's  Nightin- 
gale." 
Elder  and  Sister  Morris  are  the 
parents  of  three  daughters:  Miss 
Marion  Morris,  Mrs.  Edward  A. 
Woods,  Jr.,  of  New  York,  and  Mrs. 
R.  T.  Stewart  of  Los  Angeles.  The 
family  has  always  lived  close  to  the 
Church,  giving  freely  of  time  and 
talent  for  the  promotion  of  God's 
work  at  home  and  abroad.

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill  Appointed 
Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve 
Elder  David  L.  McKay 
First  Assistant  Superintendent,  Deseret  Sunday  School   Union   Board 
ON  
April  8,  1954,  ^"  *^^^  ^^^* 
Lake  Teniplc,  Elder  Sterling 
W.  Sill  was  set  apart  as  an 
Assistant  to  the  Quorum  of  Twelve. 
When  he  was  called  to  address  the 
conference  in  the  Tabernacle  after 
having  been  sustained  in  his  new 
position,  he  expressed  a  philosophy 
which  has  guided  much  of  his  life: 
'The  creation  of  man  is  still  going 
on,  and  in  a  sense,  each  of  us  is  a 
creator." 
In  his  busy  life,  Elder  Sill  has  di- 
rected his  energies  to  this  creation 
—the  influencing  of  others  to  good. 
He  was  bishop  of  the  Garden  Park 
Ward,"  Bonneville  Stake,  for  ten 
years.  Under  his  direction  one  of 
the  most  beautiful  chapels  in  Salt 
Lake  City  was  dedicated  within  one 
year  from  the  laying  of  the  corner- 
stone. Though  a  comparative  new- 
comer in  the  ward,  he  was  its  first 
bishop,  and  exercised  a  remarkable 
influence.  Members  who  had  been 
inactive  for  years  became  enthus- 
iastic workers,  and  the  ward  organ- 
izations began  setting  stake  and 
Church  records. 
Elder  Sill  was  on  two  high  coun- 
cils—one in  North  Davis  Stake  and 
the  other  in  Bonneville  Stake.  As 
chairman  of  the  High  Council 
Aaronic  Priesthood  Committee,  he 
directed  the  activity  of  those  Priest- 
hood   quorums,   helping   them    be- 
Page  354 
ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 
come  more  and  more  active  as  he 
combined  his  salesmanship  tech- 
niques with  his  love  of  boys.  Under 
his  direction  his  stake  reached  the 
top  ten  stakes  in  the  Church  in 
Aaronic  Priesthood  work. 
In  October  of  1952,  Elder  Sill  was 
named  a  member  of  the  Sunday 
School  General  Board.  One  of  his 
assignments  in  the  board  was  chair- 
man of  the  committee  to  revise  the 
Sunday  School  Handbook.     He  at-

ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 
355 
tacked  the  problems  with  his  usual 
vivacity.  He  distributed  chapters  to 
chairmen  of  committees  in  charge 
of  particular  subjects,  and  then  de- 
voted weeks  to  assembling  and  or- 
ganizing their  suggestions.  He  then 
mimeographed  the  revision  at  his 
own  expense,  distributed  the  copies 
to  the  general  board,  collected  them, 
and  noted  the  board  members'  criti- 
cisms on  his  master  copy,  working 
from  that  point  with  his  committee 
toward  the  finished  product. 
His  suggestions  to  the  administra- 
tion leadership  committee  of  the 
general  board  have  been  welcome 
and  worthwhile.  The  board  will 
miss  his  cheerful  and  helpful  as- 
sociation. 
POLDER  Sill  is  a  fluent  speaker,  as 
is  evidenced  by  his  recent  series 
of  talks  on  the  Sunday  Evening 
Hour  over  KSL  Radio  Station.  At 
one  time  he  concluded  that  if  every 
person  prepared  a  talk  for  each  sac- 
rament meeting  as  if  he  were  to  be 
the  speaker,  he  would  be  benefited 
as  much  as  the  speaker.  With  Ster- 
ling Sill,  conclusion  is  action.  So 
for  the  next  year  he  prepared  a  talk 
for  each  Sunday  night,  whether  or 
not  he  was  asked  to  deliver  it.  Then 
he  mimeographed  the  collection 
and  gave  it  to  his  appreciative 
friends. 
It  is  not  onlv  in  the  religious  field 
that  Elder  Sill  pledged  himself  to 
the  service  of  others.  His  influence 
as  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Re- 
gents of  the  University  of  Utah 
from  1940  to  1951  will  be  remem- 
bered for  a  long  time.  He  was 
chairman  of  this  board  for  the  last 
four  years.  While  chairman  he  de- 
plored the  lack  of  housing  facilities 
for    the    domestic    science    depart- 
ment. Here  was  need  for  action,  so 
Sterling  Sill  acted.  His  term  ended 
before  sufficient  funds  were  raised 
for  the  new  center,  so  he  devoted 
hours,  days,  and  weeks  in  personal 
contact,  getting  subscriptions  from 
his  friends  and  acquaintances.  As 
a  result,  the  Sterling  W.  Sill  Family 
Life  Center  was  recently  dedicated, 
so  named  by  grateful  board  mem- 
bers, faculty,  and  students.  It  is  a 
beautiful  home  for  girls  studying 
homemaking  and  a  lasting  memorial 
to  Elder  Sill's  energetic  devotion  to 
helping  others. 
In  the  business  field  Elder  Sill 
has  been  Salt  Lake  City  manager 
for  the  New  York  Life  Insurance 
Company  for  the  past  twenty-seven 
years,  and  inspector  of  companies' 
agencies  in  nine  western  states  since 
1941.  He  was  the  first  Utahn  to 
address  the  National  Association  of 
Life  Underwriters  and  the  first 
Utahn  to  receive  the  degree  of 
Certified  Life  Underwriter.  The  fol- 
lowing year  he  became  president  of 
the  Utah  State  Association  of  Life 
Underwriters. 
Sterling  is  the  son  of  Joseph  A. 
and  Marcella  Welling  Sill  of  Lay- 
ton,  Utah.  He  was  fifty-one  years  old 
last  March  31.  On  September  4, 
1929,  Sterling  Sill  and  Doris  May 
Thornley  were  married.  They  have 
three  children— John  Michael,  nine- 
teen, David  Sterling,  fifteen,  and 
Mary  Carolyn,  nine.  His  wife 
is  an  accomplished  musician.  She 
has  been  effective  in  working  for  the 
Utah  Symphony.  She  is  a  member 
of  the  ward  choir  and  is  active  in 
Relief  Society.  Her  loyal  support  at 
all  times  at  her  husband's  side  has 
been  a  great  force  in  his  achieve- 
ments. 
Sterling's  friends  know  that  he,

356 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1954 
too,  is  loyal  to  a  supreme  degree- 
loyal  to  them  particularly  when  he 
is  needed.  He  will  do  all  he  can 
for  a  cause  he  believes  to  be  just. 
A  leader  has  been  chosen  to  join 
a  group  of  leaders.  He  will  be  a 
great  influence  in  creating  charac- 
ter. 
ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL  AND  FAMILY 
In  front,  left  to  right:   Mary  Carolyn;  Elder  Sill;  Doris  Thornlcy  Sill. 
at  the  back,  left  to  right:  David  Sterling;  John  Michael. 
Standing, 
///|/  QJaith 
Jean  D.  Wright 
Sometimes  my  faith  is  a  shining  thing, 
Gleaming  and  bright  as  the  noonday  snn. 
And  sometimes  my  faith  is  soft  and  warm 
Like  the  darkness  when  day  is  done. 
Bnt  always  my  faith  is  a  crutch  to  me — 
A  broad  shoulder  to  lean  upon, 
A  fire  by  night  and  a  cloud  by  day. 
To  guide  me  as  I  go  on.

Contest  Announcements — 1954 
THE  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest  and  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story 
Contest  are  conducted  annually  by  the  general  board  of  Relief  So- 
ciety to  stimulate  creative  writing  among  Latter-day  Saint  women 
and  to  encourage  high  standards  of  work.     Latter-day  Saint  women  who 
qualify  under  the  rules  of  the  respective  contests  are  invited  to  enter  their 
work  in  either  or  both  contests. 
The  general  board  would  be  pleased  to  receive  entries  from  the  out- 
lying stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church  as  well  as  from  those  in  and  near 
Utah.  Since  the  two  contests  are  entirely  separate,  requiring  different  writ- 
ing skills,  the  winning  of  an  award  in  one  of  them  in  no  way  precludes 
winning  in  the  other.  It  is  suggested  that  authors  who  plan  to  enter  the 
contests  study  carefully  the  articles  on  creative  writing  which  appear  in  this 
Magazine,  and  also  similar  articles  in  the  June  issues  for  1947,  ^94^'  ^949? 
1950,  1951,  1952,  and  1953. 
ibliza  LK.  Snow  [Poem   (contest 
npHE  Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest 
opens  with  this  announcement 
and    closes    September    15,    1954- 
Prizes  will  be  awarded  as  follows: 
First  prize   $25 
Second  prize  
 $20 
Third  prize   $15 
Prize  poems  will  be  published  in 
the  January  1955  issue  of  The  Ke- 
liei  Society  Magazine  (the  birth 
month  of  Eliza  R.  Snow). 
Prize-winning  poems  become  the 
property  of  the  Relief  Society  gen- 
eral board  and  may  not  be  pub- 
lished by  others  except  upon  writ- 
ten permission  from  the  general 
board.  The  general  board  reserves 
the  right  to  publish  any  of  the  other 
poems  submitted,  paying  for  them 
at  the  time  of  publication  at  the 
regular  Magazine  rates. 
Rules  for  the  contest: 
1.  This  contest  is  open  to  all  Latter-day 
Saint  women,  exclusive  of  members  of  the 
Relief  Society  general  board,  and  em- 
ployees of  the  Relief  Society  general  board. 
2.  Only  one  poem  may  be  submitted  by 
each  contestant. 
3.  The  poem  must  not  exceed  fifty 
lines  and  should  be  typewritten,  if  pos- 
sible; where  this  cannot  be  done,  it 
should  be  legibly  written.  Only  one  side 
of  the  paper  is  to  be  used.  (A  duplicate 
copy  of  the  poem  should  be  retained  by 
contestant  to  insure  against  loss.) 
4.  The  sheet  on  which  the  poem  is 
written  is  to  be  without  signature  or  other 
identifying  marks. 
5.  No  explanatory  material  or  picture 
is  to  accompany  the  poem. 
6.  Each  poem  is  to  be  accompanied  by 
a  stamped  envelope  on  which  is  written 
the  contestant's  name  and  address.  Nom 
de  plumes  are  not  to  be  used. 
7.  A  signed  statement  is  to  accompany 
the  poem  submitted,  certifying: 
a.  That  the  author  is  a  member  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 
b.  That  the  poem  (state  the  title)  is 
the  contestant's  original  work. 
c.  That  it  has  never  been  published. 
d.  That  it  is  not  in  the  hands  of  an 
editor  or  other  person  with  a  view 
to  pubhcation. 
e.  That  it  will  not  be  published   nor 
Page  357