[Vol41 | June 1954 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Contest]
Contest Announcements—1954 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The general board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the articles on creative writing which appear in this Magazine, and also similar articles in the June issues for 1947, 1948, 1949, 1950, 1951, 1952, and 1953. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1954. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize - -.-2------$25 Second prize ----------$20 Third prize 2 222.- $15 Prize poems will be published in the January 1955 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. 'The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board, and employees of the Relief Society general board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. O