[Vol41 | June 1954 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Equation]
Equation for Better Poetry— Inspiration, Plus Maryhale Woolsey* 66 pT must be wonderful to be I able just to sit down and write a beautiful poem," someone says to me every so often, probably adding, "'you are fortunate, being gifted to receive such inspiration!" Remarks such as these are usually made at times and places wholly unsuited for replying with the truth. So I smile a thank you for the compliment intended, and let it pass. Actually, only once in thirty-odd years and unrecorded reams of writing, does a successful and effective poem result from "just letting it re- I main as it came to me." A poem can "come'' spontaneously in a satisfactory form, but rarely does. Personal experiences and emotions are not unique; they have universality, and are "worth writing about."" But these experiences must be perfected through patient work and long experimentation. However, the "test of time" without fairly regular effort would hardly be recommended as regular practice in poetry writing. For, through long storage, a work might lose any quality of timeliness it may originally have had; and in rewriting at a much later date, it might also lose the element of spontaneity. It is better to complete each poem to one's present satisfaction and go on to new projects, accepting today's dissatisfaction with last year's output as an indication of progress, of growth in ability. Students of poetry frequently ask, "Is this idea worth writing about?" The answer is usually in the affirmative—but with a proviso: If you can do it well. And this may be measured by how much you wish to write it—how strongly you feel it. This matter of feeling, of emotion, seems to be very important. In fact, emotion seems to be one parent of "inspiration," and the other may be intellect—the mysterious inner processes of one's mind, turning an idea around and over, studying it until it becomes an urge, until it is ready to be expressed. We can speed this process somewhat by conscious thinking and study; but when—and only when—the inner, subconscious absorption is complete, inspiration arrives. Incidentally, some poetry study groups use "assigned" subjects regularly as a workshop exercise. 'The delightful, and often astonishing variety of verses resulting, proves over and over that the idea is not the different, the original element, but that the development of the *Maryhale Woolsey, author of "Springtime in the Rockies," and many other lyrics and poems, as well as stories and articles, is well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine and is widely recognized as a gifted lyricist. Page 360 EQUATION FOR BETTER POETRY—INSPIRATION, PLUS 361 idea is. A really new idea is almost non-existent, except as related to new discoveries or inventions. The degree of simplicity of expression, ls not always agreed upon by poets. Many writers believe that every poem should make use of some uncommon words. Some poets pride themselves in their ability to be inexact and inexplicable in their use of words. However, if simplicity is interpreted to mean clarity, it is certain that most readers would demand simplicity. 'he oblique poem of certain "modern schools of poetry" wins a small following. After all, the purpose of language is to communicate thoughts and_ ideas, not to mask them. This is a matter, however, in which each poet must make his choice and stand confidently and contentedly by it. 'To attempt writing in styles not in accord with one's honest instincts and prefer-_ ences, is to invite unhappiness and frustration. We must recognize that there is a place and an audbence for nearly every kind of poetry. One pitfall for today's beginning writers, is a misconception regarding "free" (unrhymed) verse. Such poetry, if effective, is not easier to write than lines with rhyme and meter. A poet's measure of success may not be in his choice of poetic form, but in how well he communicates his thoughts; and wholesomeness and good taste may outlive and eventually outrank the so-called realism which depresses and troubles us. Beauty is as real as ugliness, light as real as darkness; and mankind's journey, viewed in perspective, is unmistakably upward. It is no error to "sing" in tune. But having chosen our direction, having captured our inspiration in first draft, we must accept the necessity for rewriting, revising. A poet who says, "But I felt I was inspired in this, and I wouldn't think of changing a word of it!'... Or perhaps, "but my friends like it this way," is closing the avenues of improvement for herself and deliberately narrowing her opportunities. "But how can I tell what to change?" the inexperienced poet queries. In other words, what can be added to inspiration to make a better poem? The answer is, study and work. In some cases it is almost as simple as it sounds; in others, it can become very complicated indeed. But by the time we reach this stage, the potentialities of words, of language, are likely to have us so fascinated that we shall love struggling with them. EGINNING writers everywhere seem to make certain similar errors. 'The same faults appear in practically all work of untrained poets. Some errors are so noticeable that they should be tabulated thoughtfully and eliminated by all who would achieve success in poetry writing. Since "how not to" helps us learn "how to," a brief discussion of some of these points may prove helpful to aspiring poets. By far the most common fault lies in the selection of overworked subjects. It is natural to wish to write about "mother" and "spring" and "pioneers" and "autumn glory," but we must seek out something new to say about them; new ap- 362 proaches and interpretations. Poems re-extolling in general the courage and hardiness and virtue of pioneers might be rejected by the contest judges, but, for example, one which was a "portrait" of one pioneer woman might receive an award. So might one which revealed a pioneer farmers moment of homesickness for an old home. 'This is what is meant by fresh and different technique. Frequently encountered are exces: sively long poems. 'loo often, these wander and wobble! A long poem must be very carefully worked out if it is to be good all the way through. 'The more lines, the greater peril of falling into triteness, repetition, careless rhymes—and of getting off the subject altogether! Next comes lack of clarity. Long, complicated sentences, with the subjects and their verbs separated by welters of modifying adjectives and adverbs and phrases, often awkwardly inverted, may end by telling nothing clearly. A word totally unsuited to the subject matter is often used for the obvious purpose of supplying a rhyme—and for no other reason. The use of poeticisms and contractions, sueh as "ne'er,' "over," "neath," and "ere," today, is simply not allowable, and so unnecessary! Most of these faults you can discover and correct for yourself. You can detect the "limping" meter (with experience, you will gain a feel for the permissible break in meter—which is not a break in thythm!). -You can determine whether the words you have chosen say what you really intended to say; and in the case of figures of speech (various comparisons), you can asRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 sure yourself that you are not falling into the mixed metaphor (inappropriate comparisons )—one of the saddest of poetic tragedies. A friend once asked for my appraisal of these lines: The bird of time is ebbing fast away; Crumpling in bitter fragments of the day. She was hurt when I pointed out some of the faults in the lines. It required referral to a dictionary to convince her that birds do not "ebb," that "crumpling" does not produce fragments, and that her bird, somehow, in the process of "crumpling," was changed from a bird to a day! But when we changed the lines to something like this: The bird of time is soaring fast away; I grasp at crumbling fragments of the day she admitted it did "'seem to make more sense." ORD examination is a must for every poet who takes any pride in her work. Have you ever tried going through a brief poem and taking evety word to the dictionary? You may be in for some surprises— even with words you thought were thoroughly familiar to you. Again, take the inportant words—nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs—to a good thesaurus, and be astonished at the ones you find which add color, interest, strength, and clearness far bevond the effectiveness of the words which "just come'"' to you. The mixed metaphor and the inexact word may be your greatest obstacles to successful writing—of EQUATION FOR BETTER POETRY—INSPIRATION, PLUS 363 poetry or of anything you write. They may elude you so easily—but they need not, for study will surely find them out, and work can eliminate them. And if you don't eliminate them from your poeins, your poems are going to be eliminated by those of other poets who have applied careful criticism and revision to their "inspirations." Never, please, never, think that this study and work may take the joy out of creative writing. 'That joy increases with knowing you have created better poetry, made better use of your tools—the words of our wonderful language. You will be happier, knowing that your readers will gain keener enjoyment from what you have written. Poetry has a practical application, for both poets and readers of poetry: developing appreciation. Appreciation of the beauty, the wonders im our world; appreciation of our language which makes it possible to D] bp) Press, 624 speak and to write of these. And appreciation is a highly desirable quality in a personality; like mercy, it "blesses him who gives and him who takes" (the poet who interprets and the reader who understands). With such a mission to fulfill, a poet's very best is worth striving for. Let us then be deeply grateful for inspiration, and add to it the best craftsmanship of which we are capable. "Inspiration, plus study and work" —this is our equation for writing better poetry. REFERENCES FOR WrRiITERS OF POETRY Caine, Mervitte: Making a Poem: An Inquiry Into the Creative Process, Harcourt, Brace & Co., New York, $2.95. CoOBLENTZ, eo m.: Ain Editor Looks at Poetry, The Wings Press, Mill Valley, California, $2. Wintyer, Roser: First Principles of Verse, 'The Writer, Inc., Boston, $2. MoNnNTGOMERY, VAIDA STEWART: Verse Technique - Simplified, The Kaleidograph North Vernon Avenue, Dallas 8, Texas, $1. Her Wish Si ulfilled Elsie McKinnon Strachan Each dawn she wakes to dress and go alone Past empty rooms and down the quiet stair, Till in that kitchen, silent as a stone, She slowly sets a single morning fare. Where once her stove knew kettles large and small, Where meals left cupboards bare of every dish, Where talk and laughter rolled from wall to wall, She sits in idleness; recalls the wish— The wish that followed her from room to room As needs for children followed her to bed, The wish for time to think, time to resume Those carefree hours where paths of youth had led. She tastes her breakfast now, the clock's slow pace Reminding her, time does not always race. Writing Is Work Claire W. Noall* HIE study of life, together with the insight an author brings to bear upon it, gives him an idea of what to write about. Fascinating pictures of people struggling to meet situations abound everywhere. Yet, though situations for stories are as plentiful as leaves on a tree, ideas for them are never cheap. No story will have so much as the form of a leaf until an author has toiled over it and poured something of himself into it. When an idea has gone through the creative process, taking shape within one, it may come out so different from what it was to begin with that the creator himself may hardly recognize it. For fiction is not fact. Stories emerge from the raw material of life only at the cost of heart's blood. Once you, as an aspiring writer, have pondered an idea, or if you have grasped one in a flash, and have recognized an arresting conflict, what are you going to do with it? How will you shape this conflict — which is essential to every story? All stories involve two forces in opposition to each other. Opposition exists everywhere and in everything. A bird can't fly without the rush of air against its wings. But flight comes to the bird after a comparatively brief practice period. Whiting stories may take years of apprenticeship before you can leave an impression upon your reader that will add to his enjoyment of life or his insight into it. And why do you write if not to show how imaginative power can function upon raw material to leave with your reader a vivid and desired effect? Why try to write if you do not wish to offer some purely individual consideration of life? In it the reflection may be immense though the facet is small. How can we shape so much in so little — a picture of deep, of courageous, of steadfast emotion, perhaps, in the small space of a few pages of writing? 'That is no small task. 'To accomplish it you must achieve your art form. How are you going to create anything of artistic worth? Face your job. If you intend to write, write. Write every day of your life. Though you may be busy with children and Church work, though you can use only one hour a day to begin with, write at the same time every day. 'The regular hour, the regular time to do your work is one of the first essentials in becoming skilled. 'The mind then prepares itself at that high point to function freely. 'Thoughts come, words flow, spontaneity may occasionally arise. The muse will not seek you. She may bless you; but usually she defies you. She simply opens a door to a silent room, a hard chair, and the dim light in which stories find Claire W'. Noall has wntten fiction and many articles, including features published in the Church magazines and in The Utah Magazine, Utah State Historical Quarterly, and The Western Hlumanities Review. Page 364 WRITING IS WORK their deepest being. It is up to you to bring your characters out of the dark into the light. Bring them out walking on their own two feet.

Let them face their conflicts, let them solve them. 'The author must never appear to be doing so. Nor can anyone tell you how to do this, neither muse nor adviser in the flesh. But if you have talent, and if you have the desire that gives you no rest until you develop your talent, you can learn to write stories. You can master your technique. Begin both by studying and writing. If you don't try to write you won't understand what books and people are trying to tell you about method and procedure. TTEND writers conferences, if you have the opportunity, listen to established writers of fiction, study books and articles on technique. Never cease to read good fiction. Read the recognized master- © pieces. But remember that only you can teach yourself to express your own individual talent. [f your talent is not individual it is not worth the effort of development. Therefore, write, write every day. In one story you should have but one idea which concerns but one central character in one central situation. 'The situation involves a struggle, or a problem. Either at the beginning of your effort on a story, or by the time you have finished it, you must be able to state your central idea in a single declarative sentence. The completed story should reveal the focal point of the struggle. This may be unsolvable, but if so, it should lead the reader to think and live for a while with the prob- 365 lem that the fictional character has been led to face. We should now see beyond the story into the avenues of life open to him or her. The solution does not necessarily have to be packaged and tied with a neat bow. Life is not like that. Still the story must be focused upon its inevitable conclusion. The reader should also be affected by this conclusion. This effect should be produced through the action and through the change in understanding achieved by the central character. The character himself must go through this process of change. He must be different at the end of the story from what he was at the beginning. And thus the reader should find himself in a different mood from the one in which he started to read. The main goal in writing the story is to create this change in the character. In order to do this you, as author, must know all the characters in the story. Without this knowledge you cannot produce the effect that you are trying to create. 'To accomplish the change teferred to, you must know how the characters think, speak, and react. You must listen to their heartbeats. In the story everything that you yourself think and feel on the subject should remain out of sight. It is the reactions of your characters to their situations that count. Yet without reader reaction the count is of no value. The reader, too, must know these people. Can he hear them speak? Can he feel their sense of touch? Can he breathe the bright blue atmosphere of the frozen north on a sunny day that you describe? Or can he feel enervated by the red drouth 366 of desert sand dunes when the heat rises in visible rings? Give us what you choose, but give us both place and action in terms of concrete detaal, Induce the feeling for what is to occur by including the kind of detail that pertains to the setting, the action, and the theme of your story. As far as possible, make every description, every event used support the theme and suggest the characteristic traits of the central figure. Make these dramatic details also suggest the type of action in which the main character is to be involved. Let them further the unseen elements of the piece, as well as the seen. Under the circumstances, it seems plain that if attention is called to the ringing of a bell, for example, that bell rings for some special purpose. SE the exact word, the exact gesture, the exact suggestion. You have no space for anything extraneous. You need all the room the story provides for its development. 'Though the form of the story is closely molded, the setting is essential. Begin with it. Tell us at once where the action takes place, and when. 'Take enough space to do this through rich and suggestive detail, not through plain statement of fact. Make the detail pertinent to what is to come. And make it serve to bring your surroundings alive. The character himself should help to do this. He should already be in action.. Let us see his face and figure. Let us feel his clothing — calico, silk, or homespun. Present the fabric in terms of what it is to mean. If your desired effect is an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 affirmation of life, let us sense this final effect at the beginning through the realities of the person, the place, and the time. As you lead up from the beginning to the single concluding effect of your story, remember that no sentence should ever say more than one thing. No paragraph should develop more than one idea. Bring each sentence to its own conclusion. Let the last sentence of the paragraph bring its group of sentences to their larger and more important conclusion, until at the end of a section or natural division of your story, you have attained a definite effect. But do not stop with that effect. These climactic sentences must also lead to the transition that you are about to make to a new development. As you establish one idea, you must progress to another. 'he _ last sentence of a paragraph or a division should lead to the next; or it should provide the opportunity for the opening sentence of the next paragraph to serve as that bridge. The action, or the forward movement, must at all times be sustained. At the end of a developed section, a double space may indicate a lapse of time. Dialogue should be broken into brief passages. Seldom, if ever, let one person speak more than three sentences at a time. Never let a speech come from the air. Ground your people. Register the effect of the dialogue on the person spoken to. Bring both speaker and listener to life through relevant gesture, expression, and reaction. Thus the reader will also see and hear both speaker and listener. Persuade the reader to lose himself in his sym- WRITING IS WORK pathy for the problem that the characters face. N deciding how to handle your material nothing is of more importance than your choice of viewpoint character. Who is to be your main character? Who is to be acted upon to end up as the changed character? Will his story be told in the third person or will he himself relate it? Only by weighing your material thoroughly can these questions be determined. The decision should be preceded by the assimilative process that goes on in the deeper realm of consciousness. This realm is where the creative process of composing a story from the raw materials of life does its part. How to make the creative process function is another matter for study and practice. Briefly, it can be said that the process runs through a course of interchanging impressions. I You have your idea for a story; but simply to record this discovery as such, no matter how dramatic or exciting, is not creating anything in the way of new insights into life. For, though you have taken your idea from life, in order to give it back as a story, you must transmute the substance. 'To accomplish this, yield your materials up to your subconscious mind. Bury them there that they may yield their essence up to you. Submit your will to theirs.