[Vol41 | June 1954 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Poem | Title: Inspiration | Author: Strach]
[— Inspiration, Plus Maryhale Woolsey 360 Writing Is Work Claire W. Noall 364 First Ladies of Our Land — Wives of the Presidents — Part IV •. Elsie C. Carroll 374 When Viewed From a Distance Nora Yaros 412 FICTION The Falling Shackles — Chapter 1 Margery S. Stewart 369 Something Blue Sylvia Probst Young 386 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 380 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 381 Editorial: The 124th Annual Church Conference Marianne C. Sharp 382 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings 384 Music for Special Program, Sunday, November 7, 1954 384 Brigham Young University Leadership Week 384 Tribute to the Singing Mothers _ _ David O. McKay 385 Errata: "Magazine Honor Roll: 393 Safe Method of Freezing Corn 393 Notes from the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 395 From Near and Far 415 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Hulda Peterson, Homemaker and Musician 391 A Different Kind of Bridal Shower Helen S. Williams 392 Housecleaning Nostalgia Vernessa M. Nagle 394 The Scratching Post Elizabeth Williamson 414 LESSON DEPARTMENT — TEACHING AIDS AND PREVIEWS FOR 1954-55 Teaching Aids for the 1954-55 Lessons Edith S. Elliott 400 Theology — Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Leland H. Monson 403 Visiting Teacher Messages — Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Leone O. Jacobs 405 Work Meeting — S-election, Care, and Use of Household Equipment Rhea H. Gardner 406 Literature — The Literature of England Briant S. Jacobs 408 Social Science — The Constitution of the United States Al
Equation  for  Better  Poetry — 
Inspiration,  Plus 
Maryhale  WooJscy* 
"I 
T  must  be  wonderful  to  be 
able  just  to  sit  down  and 
write  a  beautiful  poem," 
someone  says  to  me  every  so  often, 
probably  adding,  ''you  are  fortunate, 
being  gifted  to  receive  such  inspira- 
tion!" 
Remarks  such  as  these  are  usually 
made  at  times  and  places  wholly  un- 
suited  for  replying  with  the  truth. 
So  I  smile  a  thank  you  for  the 
compliment  intended,  and  let  it 
pass. 
Actually,  only  once  in  thirty-odd 
years  and  unrecorded  reams  of  writ- 
ing, does  a  successful  and  effective 
poem  result  from  ''just  letting  it  re- 
main as  it  came  to  me." 
A  poem  can  "come"  spontaneous- 
ly in  a  satisfactory  form,  but  rarely 
does.  Personal  experiences  and 
emotions  are  not  unique;  they  have 
universahty,  and  are  "worth  writing 
about."  But  these  experiences  must 
be  perfected  through  patient  work 
and  long  experimentation. 
However,  the  "test  of  time"  with- 
out fairly  regular  effort  would  hard- 
ly be  recommended  as  regular  prac- 
tice in  poetry  writing.  For,  through 
long  storage,  a  work  might  lose  any 
quality  of  timeliness  it  may  original- 
ly have  had;  and  in  rewriting  at  a 
much  later  date,  it  might  also  lose 
the  element  of  spontaneity.     It  is 
better  to  complete  each  poem  to 
one's  present  satisfaction  and  go  on 
to  new  projects,  accepting  today's 
dissatisfaction  with  last  year's  output 
as  an  indication  of  progress,  of 
growth  in  ability. 
Students  of  poetry  frequently  ask, 
"Is  this  idea  worth  writing  about?" 
I'he  answer  is  usually  in  the  affirm- 
ative—but with  a  proviso:  If  you 
can  do  it  well.  And  this  may  be 
measured  by  how  much  you  wish  to 
write  it— how  strongly  you  feel  it. 
This  matter  of  feeling,  of  emotion, 
seems  to  be  very  important.  In  fact, 
emotion  seems  to  be  one  parent  of 
"inspiration,"  and  the  other  may  be 
intellect- the  mysterious  inner  pro- 
cesses of  one's  mind,  turning  an  idea 
around  and  over,  studying  it  until 
it  becomes  an  urge,  until  it  is  ready 
to  be  expressed.  We  can  speed  this 
process  somewhat  by  conscious 
thinking  and  study;  but  when— and 
only  when— the  inner,  subconscious 
absorption  is  complete,  inspiration 
arrives. 
Incidentally,  some  poetry  study 
groups  use  "assigned"  subjects  reg- 
ularly as  a  workshop  exercise.  The 
delightful,  and  often  astonishing  va- 
riety of  verses  resulting,  proves  over 
and  over  that  the  idea  is  not  the 
different,  the  original  element, 
but   that   the   development  of  the 
*MaryhaJe  Woohey,  author  of  ''Springtime  in  the  Rockies,"  and  many  other  lyrics 
and  poems,  as  well  as  stories  and  articles,  is  well  known  to  readers  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  and  is  widely  recognized  as  a  gifted  lyricist. 
Page  360

EQUATION  FOR  BETTER  POETRY— INSPIRATION,  PLUS 
361 
idea  is.  A  really  new  idea  is  almost 
non-existent,  except  as  related  to 
new  discoveries  or  inventions. 
The  degree  of  simplicity  of  ex- 
pression, is  not  always  agreed  upon 
by  poets.  Many  writers  believe  that 
every  poem  should  make  use  of 
some  uncommon  words.  Some  poets 
pride  themselves  in  their  ability  to 
be  inexact  and  inexplicable  in  their 
use  of  words.  However,  if  simplicity 
is  interpreted  to  mean  clarity,  it  is 
certain  that  most  readers  would  de- 
mand simplicity.  The  oblique  poem 
of  certain  ''modern  schools  of  po- 
etry" wins  a  small  following.  After 
all,  the  purpose  of  language  is  to 
communicate  thoughts  and  ideas, 
not  to  mask  them. 
This  is  a  matter,  however,  in 
which  each  poet  must  make  his 
choice  and  stand  confidently  and 
contentedly  by  it.  To  attempt 
writing  in  styles  not  in  accord  with 
one's  honest  instincts  and  prefer- 
ences, is  to  invite  unhappiness  and 
frustration.  We  must  recognize 
that  there  is  a  place  and  an  audi- 
ence for  nearly  every  kind  of  poetry. 
One  pitfall  for  today's  beginning 
writers,  is  a  misconception  regard- 
ing ''free"  (unrhymed)  verse.  Such 
poetry,  if  effective,  is  not  easier  to 
write  than  lines  with  rhyme  and 
meter.  A  poet's  measure  of  success 
may  not  be  in  his  choice  of  poetic 
form,  but  in  how  well  he  communi- 
cates his  thoughts;  and  wholesome- 
ness  and  good  taste  may  outlive  and 
eventually  outrank  the  so-called 
realism  which  depresses  and  troubles 
us.  Beauty  is  as  real  as  ugliness, 
light  as  real  as  darkness;  and  man-
