[Vol10 | May 1923 | Sequence: 20a | Category: Article | Title: Mother]

Many persons know or have heard of Hull House in Chicago.
A greater number, perhaps, are acquainted with the moving genius
of this Settlement House, Miss Jane Addams.
At one time there was connected with the Board of the Institution
a wealthy man whose1 daughter, also wealthy, became
greatly interested in the babies brought into the Home.
At the time of her marriage she resolved that for every child that should come to bless her home, she would take into it another
child in need of home and parents.
Nine times she and her husband welcomed a little new-comer,
and just as often she looked about for a companion for her own
baby.
It is rather difficult to conceive of a better purpose to which
wealth might be put, suffice to say, that in that day when the
Lord shall demand a report of their stewardship, such as she and
her husband need have little fear.
This ,story, unique in its character, will doubtless recall the
homes of a good many people, many among the Latter-day Saints,
where children bereft of parents, in one way and another, are
nevertheless being cherished and cared for as if they were the
offspring of those who care for and cherish them.
We have in mind as we write four of the best homes in the
Church and in the Nation where fifteen children are receiving
the constant care and loving devotion of men and women worthy
of honor in the Church and in the State. A group of these children
lost their parents during the influenza epidemic, and others
have been deprived of their parents in other ways.
Fortunate are they who are caring for these children and
greatly blessed are the children who are receiving this care. Happy
the child who feels within his soul that divine thing called Mother's
Love, whether it come from her who bore him, or from, one
who, never having known that joy, still rears with tenderness the
child that is another's. Happy that woman who arouses within
the breast of the child that adoration and respect that good and
great children have felt for Mother throughout the ages. Such as
she hath eternal riches already.