[Vol10 | May 1923 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Backward and Forward Author]
Church History records the fact that when Harriet Young,
one of the three pioneer women, entering the valley on July 24,
1847, saw the prospects before them, and heard the declaration of
President Brigham Young that "this is the place," that^ she grew
heart-,sick and exclaimed, "Weak and weary as I am, I would
rather go a thousand miles farther than remain in such a forsaken
place; as this." Now, it is quite the usual thing for the stranger
who comes within our gates, to discourse on the beauty of Salt
Lake Valley and Salt Lake City.
Karl G. Maeser remarked when he saw the students and
faculty moving into the new building on the present site of the
Brigham Young University, "The old man taught in a cabin,
but they have built a palace for his boys to teach in."
These stories present an element of contrast that suggests
a resemblance between the humble surroundings of the first Editor
of the Woman's Exponent and the very comfortable surroundings
of the editorial staff of the Relief Society Magazine of today.
Yet humble surroundings do not deter great work. Brigham
Young and his associates laid the foundation upon which others
have builded ; Karl G. Maeser developed a spirit which those who
have followed have sought diligently to foster and perpetuate. We
who are privileged to take up the work of the Relief Society Magazine
after L. Lula Greene Richards, Emmeline B. Wells, whose service extended over so long a period, Susa Young Gates, and
members of the General Board of the Relief Society who have
assisted President Clarissa S. Williams since the editorial duties
passed to her, assume the responsibility1 with a feeling of gratitude
not unmingled with reverence.
To those who had the concept of a woman's periodical; to
those who fostered it when interest was low and sympathy negligible
; to those who worked for little or no remuneration, accepting
the work as a mission : to them in this hour we make grateful
acknowledgment.
The future of the Magazine will not be separated from its
past. It will be, first of all, the organ of the W/oman's Relief
Society ; secondly, a magazine that shall aim to foster the literary
talent of the women of this intermountain country ; thirdly, a
magazine that shall endeavor to place before its readers stories of
real achievement, particularly as they are reflected in the lives of
women. In this rapidly changing world of ours, every day brings
forth some new surprise, and these surprises, fortunately for the
world, are not confined to the realm of man's achievement.
Fourthly, the Magazine has an opportunity to serve nationally and
internationally because the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints has in some instances given birth, and in other instances
educated and developed, a group of men and women who are today
of both national and international import. The native state of
these persons, be it Utah, Idaho, Arizona, or any other spot where
the people of the Lord are located, will have something to say of
these people that can be said of them by no one else, unless others
come among us and rob us of our birthright, taking from us the
thing that was ours to give. Let us hope this may never be.
In conclusion, we wish to say, the aim of the Magazine shall
be td hold fast to all that is good in the past, to enlarge and expand
that good, and to add unto as we have vision; praying always
that that which is written may be dictated under the inspiration
of the Spirit of the great Author of Life and Light, in
whose path lies the only future of worth for the people of the
Lord.

