[Vol10 | May 1923 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Presidents' Day]
In view of the present interest in leadership, nothing
could be more appropriate than a Presidents' Day. The plan
as conceived by the General Board had a two-fold object;
first, that of honoring the leaders of the Relief Society, past
and present; and second, that of observing in fitting manner
the eighty-first anniversary of. the organization of the Association.
The committee, consisting of Annie Wells Cannon, Jeannette
A. Hyde, and Cora L. Bennion, is to be congratulated on
the very carefully planned program, and the manner in which
the details were carried out.
The entertainment was held Wednesday afternoon, March
21, in the Assembly Room of the Bishop's building. The special
guests of the occasion were all former members of the
General Board of the Relief Society, the General Board
of the Y. L. M. I. A., the General Board of the Primary, and the
Relief Society presidents of stake and ward associations in Salt
Lake county.
The program was introduced with a prologue, presented
by Rosannah C. Irvine. The addresses and musical numbers
were accompanied by stereopticon views.
A portrait of the Prophet Joseph Smith was thrown on
the screen, during which time the choir and congregation, led
by Lizzie Thomas Edward, sang, "Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah." The opening prayer was offered by
Zina Y. Card.
Sketches of the six General Presidents were then presented.
Ethel R. Smith presented the first sketch—Emma Hale
Smith. During her presentation, a photograph of Emma Smith,
the first president of the Relief Society, the Masonic Temple
at Nauvoo, where the first Relief Society was organized, the
names of the eighteen charter members of the organization,
and the city of Nauvoo, were thrown upon the screen.
The second address, having for its theme Eliza R. Snow,
was made by Amy W. Evans. During the time that the portrait
of Eliza R. Snow was upon the screen, Lizzie Thomas
Edward sang, "O my Father." .Other pictures viewed while
the sketch of Sister Snow was being read were, "Crossing the
Plains," "Buffalos on the Plains," and "Council Bluffs Ferry."
The sketch of the third president, Zina D. H. Young, was given by Julia A. Child. During the reading of her paper,
pioneer midwives, pioneer physicians, the old Deseret Hospital,
silk curtains exhibited at the St. Louis exposition in 1904,
and Zina D. H. Young, were the pictures featured.
Barbara H. Richards presented the fourth president, Bathsheba
W. Smith. The Bishop's building, the interior of the
General Board room of the Relief Society, the home and portrait
of Bathsheba W. Smith, were the views seen during the
reading of the paper.
Julia A. F. Lund had as her theme, Emmeline B. Wells,
the fifth president. The pictures seen during Mrs. Lund's address
were, the Relief Society gathering wheat, a Relief
Society wheat field, a copy of the last Exponent, a copy of
the first Relief Society Magazine, Mt. Timpanogos, Emmeline
B. Wells' old home, and Emmeline B. Wells' portrait.
During the time Mrs. Wells' photograph rested on the screen,
the congregation sang, "Our mountain home so dear."
A toast to Clarissa S. Williams, the present and sixth
president of the Relief Society, was given by Counselor Jennie
B. Knight. During the time of her greeting to President
Williams, a portrait of the five presidents and the Historian's
Office, which was the birthplace of Mrs. Williams, and Mrs.
Williams' photograph, were thrown upon the screen. Mrs. Williams
responded to Mrs. Knight's toast.
The program was characterized throughout by the uniform
excellence of its numbers. After the concluding musical number,
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation," the benediction
was offered by Louie B. Felt.