(Continued from page 593)
she majored in ancient languages, and was graduated with High Honors. In her senior year she was given a teaching fellowship in Latin and continued teaching Latin at the University and Stewart Training School after graduation.
Mrs. Sharp is a staunch, orthodox Latter-day Saint. She knows and understands the doctrines of the Church and is obedient to Church teachings. She has been active in Church auxiliary work, having taught in the Sunday School and Primary organizations, and for one year she served as chairman of the Queen's Branch, New York, Genealogical Committee. She is thoroughly familiar with all phases of Relief Society work. While living in New York for a period of eleven years, she served continuously in the Relief Society, first as literature and theology class leader and then as president of the Queen's Branch Society. Later, when New York Stake was created, she served on the Relief Society stake board and as counselor to President Lorena Fletcher. She also represented Relief Society on the National Woman's Radio Committee.
After returning to Utah from New York, she continued her Relief Society work as literature class leader in the Twentieth Ward of Ensign Stake until she was called to be a member of the General Board.
Mrs. Sharp has a fine intellect, discriminating judgment, and excellent literary taste. She is sensitive to the reading interests and needs of Latter-day Saint women, and meticulous in the preparation of Magazine material. She is willing to work long and hard to maintain high standards of excellence. Her husband and her young daughters, Luacine, Louise, and Annetta, are interested in her work and fully cooperate with her. Mrs. Sharp assumes her duties well-equipped to carry the responsible position of associate editor of The Relief Society Magazine.
Periodic Medical Examinations of Apparently Healthy Persons
(Continued from page 595)
Medical guidance of apparently well babies is an important factor in this result. Childhood, especially early childhood, is the time when most developmental defects appear: diseased tonsils, obstructing adenoids, tooth decay, ear trouble, defects of vision, speech abnormalities, damage to the heart valves, emotional difficulties, and many others. Surveys show that millions of American children suffer from one or more of these conditions. If discovered early, nearly all can be improved, and many of them can be entirely relieved before lifelong handicaps result; but not if medical contacts are withheld until compelling symptoms appear.
Early adult life is the period when tuberculosis and the venereal diseases take their heaviest toll. The chances for salvaging the individual and for almost every form of protection for others, center on finding the cases earlyi. e., discovery before they give symptoms. Intensive search for tuberculosis among groups of apparently well people usually reveals from five to ten times the number of cases previously known to exist. And the importance of examining the apparently well for the discovery of syphilis is attested by our recent premarital laws.
When we come to the period of middle and later life it is well to face squarely the fact that medical effort is often a compromise with more or less damaged goods. But there is all the more reason for early examination and guidance. Here the analogy of the yardstick is particularly helpful. The last inch is a poor time on which to concentrate the medical contacts. Some degenerative processes and malignant changes, even when recognized, are difficult to influence, yet there is ample evidence of the high value of early recognition in adding years of comfort and efficiency. Fifty per cent of groups made up of individuals with hypertension (high blood pressure) have shown an average reduction of 18 M. M. under medical guidance. This has meaning when we remember that according to the American Actuarial Society, a reduction of 10 M. M. of hypertension in the age group 40 to 49 decreases the chances of dying by more than one-third.
The practice of periodic medical examination is no panacea. But to say that it is highly desirable is a conservative understatement provided: One's physician is really interested and skillful in this type of work; And provided the person examined follows advice without becoming fussy or developing apprehensiveness.
 OCTOBER 1943