[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Work-and-Business Peace Habits]
Work and Business
New-Fashioned Thrift
Lesson 1 PEACE vs. WARTIME HABITS (For optional use on Tuesday, October 13, 1942)
OUR national emergency is creating many problems. Home life is being disrupted and families are moving from one part of the country to another. As every American household adjusts quickly and intelligently to new surroundings and circumstances, new habits of thrift and economy will take the place of waste and careless spending. An era of abundance is giving way to an era of scarcity. Limited supplies and transportation facilities will gradually force every one to live closer to the level of necessities and change materially his tastes and habits of living.
Materials vital to the war are used more or less in every home. Steel, aluminum, rubber, copper, and tin head the list. Homemakers will materially aid the defense effort by exercising care in the use of equipment made of these materials. Many pet theories will be discarded and simpler and more scientific methods of conservation will be adopted.
Saving by sharing, a virtue practiced long ago, may be a new experience to many in these days. Each person or family who shares his commodities makes less the immediate demand on industry for these commodities for civilian use and at the same time develops habits of friendliness and neighborliness which will no doubt endure beyond the war emergency.
Almost everyone will have to adjust to changes in their habits of transportation. The automobile has come to be a necessity rather than a luxury. It has been used for many purposes?for taking men and women to their work, housewives to the grocery store, children to school, and the family to the movies. Already its use is being greatly curtailed, and as a result buses and trains are becoming overcrowded. Facilities in urban communities will no doubt become more strained, and people from the farms will be obliged to make fewer trips to town. More walking will be in order, which means good exercise and better health.
Notwithstanding necessary restrictions in travel, leisure time activities and vacation habits need not be curtailed. As worries and confusion increase, it becomes increasingly necessary for people to have recreation. We have a wartime obligation to keep fit, efficient, and competent. Home entertaining can supply much of the needed recreation. Careful planning can provide relaxation that will refresh both body and mind. A picnic in the backyard, in a nearby grove, on the banks of a stream, or even in the kitchen, to which neighbors and friends have been invited, can be a memorable occasion. Refreshments need not be expensive to be satisfying and attractive. Bringing the family together where they can help cook a meal, sing songs around an open fire, or splash in an old swimming pool can be a wholesome and happy event.
Eating habits are also due for changes, but family meals must not suffer. The national nutrition program now underway should result in balanced diets and a better fed people. Due to the war, there are fewer supplies of some canned foods. Less tin cans with fewer sizes will be available. The old soup kettle and bean pot will return to help in the new thrift program. With sugar rationing now in effect and rationing of other foods likely, more fresh and dried fruits and vegetables and more dairy products will be used. The health and well-being of the family depends in large measure upon the choice of food. It is hoped and expected that those who can, will produce enough of the protective foods, such as fruits, vegetables, eggs, and milk, to care for the needs of all. In places where weeds thrived, victory gardens are now growing.
The market basket should evidence changed buying practices. What in peacetime was casual pastime, now becomes a serious responsibility. One trip to market should take the place of several. A complete list of everything needed should be made before making the shopping trip, and enough provisions should be purchased for the week, if possible, instead of for three or four days. Purchasers should ask to have delivered, on the regular schedule, only those things that cannot be carried. Markets should be better known and purchasers should not trust too much to shopping via telephone. They should know how to buy by grade or label rather than by the ten cents worth.
Clothing should be bought according to the kind of wardrobe best suited to the needs of the family, with consideration being given to that which will wear a reasonable length of time and will still be attractive. Instead of throwing away clothes when they are a bit worn, or silk or nylon stockings when the first thread breaks, carefully mend these; remodel clothing if necessary; freshen by sponging and pressing, and then enjoy wearing it for months to come.
Checking over the list of things one intends to buy for himself to see how many items he can do without is good practice. Everyone needs to save, to share, to sacrifice, to make adjustments. To do this and still be cheerful is one of the biggest contributions one can make toward the high ideals of life we have long struggled to maintain.
Questions for Discussion
1. How has your family curtailed the use of the automobile?
2. Have you changed any of your shopping habits?
3. In what other ways can you visualize that we may have to change our habits to fit in with the war program?
