[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: Announcements of Contests]
560  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1942 
look  out  for    them,  she    started    a  But  the  rain  had  come,  and  it  had 
search  for  the  Rigbys.    As  she  went  seeped  through  the  frail,  bark  roof 
through  the  camps  she  was  recalling  and  onto  the  pallet.     Kind  sisters 
Margaret's  words  the  last  time  they  stood  holding  pans  and  pails  to  catch 
had  been  together:  ''I  want  my  baby  the  water.    Hope  wondered  why,  for 
to  be  born  in  a  house,"  Margaret  where  Margaret's  soul  had  gone  there 
had  said.    "I  want  it  to  be  sheltered  was  no  need  of  help.    The  sheeted 
and  safe.    Oh  Hope,  do  you  suppose  form  on  the  pallet  was  past  all  that, 
we'll  ever  settle    down    and    have  Hope  sat  stiffly  on  a  wooden  box 
homes  of  our  own?"  holding  Margaret's  new-born  child 
Hope  had  given  Margaret  one  of  in  her  arms.     In  her  thoughts  she 
her  wry  smiles.    ''Well,  I  love  Ron  could  still  hear  the  dying  woman's 
so  much,  I  suppose  I'll  follow  him  last  words  and  see  the  patient  smile 
to  the  ends  of  the  earth,"  she  said,  on  her  face  as  she  said:    'I'm    so 
"and  end  up  by  living  in  an  igloo."  thankful  my  baby  was  born    in    a 
"Oh  Hope,  you  must  have  a  home  house." 
for  Dolma  and  Junior,"  Margaret  in-  Bitterness  and  resentment  filled 
sisted.    "Children  are  entitled  to  be  Hope's  mind.    This  then,  was  what 
born  and  reared  in  a  home."  happened  to  women  who  followed 
Hope  thought  of  this  now  as,  hav-  their  men  faithfully  to  the  end.  She 
ing  at  last  found  the  Rigbys,  she  saw  looked  at  Sam  Rigby,  his  shoulders 
the  shelter  in  which  Margaret  lay,  hunched  forward,  hands  clenched, 
fighting  the  writhing  torment  of  birth  his  eyes  burning.  She  wondered 
pangs.  Sam  Rigby  had  slung  to-  what  thoughts  were  seething  through 
gether  a  makeshift  hut.  The  sides  his  mind.  Quiet,  unassuming  men 
were  formed  of  blankets  fastened  to  often  had  great  depth  of  feeling, 
poles  stuck  in  the  ground.  There  Was  Sam  bitter  now  that  this  trag- 
was  a  roof  of  bark  which  kept  out  the  edy  had  come  to  him?  Hope  tried 
sun,  but  not  the  rain.  Margaret  lay  to  imagine  what  Ron  would  do  if 
on  a  pallet  on  the  dirt  floor,  sur-  this  sort  of  thing  should  happen  to 
rounded  by  an  odd  assortment  of  her.  A  chill  feeling  of  foreboding 
boxes  and  camp  litter.  A  tallow  dip  gripped  her  body.  She  held  the  in- 
shed  the  only  light.  fant  close  to  her  breast  and  felt  its 
Without  spoken  words  both  wom-  heart  fluttering,  and  knew  it  was  dy- 
en  knew  the  crisis  had  come  now  ing.       When  the  tiny  form  grew 
for  Margaret.    Sensing  the  question  rigid,  she  still  sat  without  power  of 
in  her  pathetic,  brown  eyes,  Hope  will  or  motion.    Her  own  fears  kept 
knelt  and  took  the  sick    woman's  her  silent.    For  with  the  passing  of 
hands  in  her  own.     "If  what  you  Margaret's  baby,  a  movement  close 
fear  happens,  I'll  take  the  baby  and  to  her  heart,  confirmed  what  she  had 
care  for  it  as  if  it  were  my  own,"  she  believed  for  some  time.     She  was 
promised.  soon  to  have  another  child.  .  .  . 
Hours  later  the  rain  began.  Mar-  Stumbling  back  through  the  dawn, 
garet's  ordeal  was  over,  though  Hope  she  was  unaware  of  the  tang  of  rain- 
was  never  quite  clear  as  to  all  that  soaked  earth  or  the  flush  of  rose  in 
had  happened,  so  many  emotions  the  sky.  As  she  reached  her  wagon, 
had  run  rampant  through  her  being,  relieved  that  Dolma  and  Juney  were

WHITHER  THOU  GOEST 
561 
sleeping  soundly,  she  heard  uncer- 
tain, shuffling  footsteps,  and  turned 
to  see  Sam  Rigby  following.  'I'm 
goin'  back,"  he  told  her,  ''back  to 
Missouri.  Our  folks  are  there,  her's 
and  mine.'-' 
''Would  . . .  would  Margaret  want 
you  to?"  Hope  asked,  too  weary  to 
feel  surprise  or  to  offer  sympathy. 
"If  the  baby  had  lived,  things 
mighta  worked  out.  But  now  I've 
got  nothin'  to  live  for.  I'm  not 
aimin'  to  follow  the  Saints  any 
longer.  Maybe  it's  true,  the  Gospel, 
I  dunno.  I  don't  care  any  more. 
Tomorrow,  as  soon  as  the  buryin's 
over,  I'm  leavin'.  I  thought  you 
ought  to  know.  Good-by,  an'  I'm 
obliged  to  you,  Hope." 
He  shuffled  away,  and  the  dark- 
ness seemed  to  blot  him  out  com- 
pletely. Her  tears  came  then,  and 
forebodings  and  doubts.  She  crept 
into  bed  beside  the  sleeping  children 
and  lay  there  taut  as  a  wire  that  has 
been  stretched  to  the  breaking  point. 
Why  was  she  always  alone?  Where 
was  Ron?  It  seemed  to  her  that  he 
liked  staying  away. '  What  would  he 
say  when  she  told  him  she  was  to 
have  another  child?  She  couldn't  go 
through  with  it.  Bitterly  she  ques- 
tioned her  right  to  bring  offspring 
into  the  world  to  suffer,  to  die,  as 
the  Rigby  baby  had  died. 
Then  a  thought  came  to  her.  She 
sat  up  in  the  wagon  bed  as  though 
propelled  on  a  string.  Sam's  words 
echoed  in  her  ears.  "I'm  not  aimin' 
to  follow  any  longer!" 
The  despair  of  his  loss  had  over- 
whelmed him.  He  was  adrift  with 
a  sorrow  too  deep  to  be  borne  with- 
out help.  And  she  had  let  him  go 
without  holding  out  the  hope,  the 
faith,  and  assurance  of  eternal  life. 
She  had  failed    to    carry    out    the 
Prophet's  words: 
"And  vou  shall  be  counselors  and 
aids  to  the  Priesthood.  Queens  of 
the  home!  Guides  to  youth.  I  now 
turn  the  key  ...  I" 
Slowly  dawn  crept  over  the  sleep- 
ing world  and  with  it  the  dawn  of 
an  awakening  in  Hope's  heart.  This 
glorious  promise  was  bigger  than 
they  were.  It  would  fill  the  whole 
world  with  its  message! 
A  few  days  later  a  scout  stopped 
by  the  encampment  and  brought  her 
a  letter.    It  was  from  Ronald. 
He  had  felt  her  need  of  him.  Was 
everything  all  right?  He  had  built  her 
a  cabin,  not  much  of  a  home  to  be 
sure,  but  dry  and  warm,  and  he  would 
be  riding  toward  the  camp  in  a  few 
days  to  meet  her  and  bring  her  back. 
And  how  were  Dolma  and  Juney? 
Were  they  all  right? 
Oh,  they  were!  They  were!  Every- 
thing was  all  right  now  that  Ron  had 
said  he  had  a  place  for  her  and  was 
coming  soon  to  meet  her.  Hope 
knew  now  that  she  would  follow 
Ron  forever  and  ever.  She  would 
follow  him  to  the  ends  of  the  earth, 
and  back.  .  .  . 
^^OOW  far  is  it  to  where  Father 
^^  is,  Mother?" 
"Hush,  Dolma!  I  don't  know. 
I'm  tired,  Dol.  I  can't  be  your 
mother  all  the  time  you  know.  Some 
of  the  time  I  like  to  be  me." 
That  was  a  fine  way  to  speak  to 
one's  child.  But  she  and  Dol  were 
friends,  and  Dol  understood  her. 
"What  will  Father  say  about  the 
cow?  I  mean  about  us  losing  her?" 
Dolma  asked,  presently. 
"He'll  say  that  we  didn't  tie  her

562  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1942 
securely.      Cows  like  to  run  away  will  say,  'Hah!    Here  is  the  house!' 
sometimes  just  as  children  do."  Then  he'll  grab  Juney  and  toss  him 
''Mother,  tell  us  about  our  house,  up,  up,  clear  to  the  ceiling/' 
the  one  we're  going  to  have,  just  like  ''What  ceiling.  Mother?" 
you  did  before,  only  different.  Start  "The    ceiling    of    our    beautiful 
with  Papa."  house." 
"Well,"  Hope  began,  "in  about  a  "Will  it  have  windows  in  it?  And 
week  from  now,  you'll    be    asking  a  trundle  bed  for  me,  and  one  for 
questions  just  as  you  are  doing  now.  Juney?" 
And  Juney  will  be  scraping  his  mush  "Not  at  first  I'm  afraid,  but  later, 
bowl  and  saying,  'More,  more,'  just  Yes,  I'm  sure  we'll  have  those.  And 
as  he  was  doing  at  breakfast  this  we'll  have  a  stove,  and  real  chairs 
morning.  And  then  I'll  look  up,  and  and  a  table." 
way  in  the  distance  yonder.  ..."  "Go  on.  Mother." 
She  pointed  in  line  with  the  rutted  "And  the  blue  china  dishes  that 
road,  "I'll  see   "  Aunt  Anne  left.  ..." 
"Yes,  yes.  Mother,  go  on!"  "Will  our  house  have  love  in  it, 
"I'll  see  a  handsome  stranger  rid-  Mother?" 
ing  toward  us  on  a  black  horse."  "Yes  .  .  .  love  most  of  all,  darling. 
Dolma    giggled    delightedly   and  And  we'll  plant  flowers— zinnias  and 
held  her  hand  to  her  mouth.  Junior  larkspur  and  hollyhocks." 
kicked  his  feet.  Dolma  laughed   delightedly,    her 
"And  when  he  sees  us,  he  will  say,  fingers  clutching  her  mother's  cal- 
'Hello,  hello!    I'm  looking  for  a  wife  loused,  brown  hand.    Juney,  flat  on 
and  two  beautiful  children.'     And  his  back,  waved  his  chubby  legs  and 
Dolma  will  say,  'That's  us.  Father,  grinned  happily, 
that's  us!'  And  we'll  all  follow  along;  The  oxen  plodded  on  over  the  jolt- 
and  then,  before  we  know  it,  Father  ing  ruts,  on  and  on  and  on.