[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: In Retrospect Chapter Lyman]
In  Retrospect 
President  Amy  Biown  Lyman 
CHAPTER  VIII 
Homesteader,  Traveler,  Legislator,  Counselor 
Homesteading 
BEING  the  daughter  of  a  pio- 
neer, it  was  quite  appropriate 
for  me  to  have  the  pioneering 
experience  which  came  to  me  in  the 
summer  of  1911  when  I  helped  to 
homestead  a  farm  in  the  desert  (vir- 
gin soil)  in  eastern  Millard  County 
near  what  is  now  Delta,  Utah.  My 
father-in-law,  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
president  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  who  had  never  used  his 
homestead  right,  also  participated  in 
this  project.  He  was  enthusiastic 
about  it,  for  his  home  for  many 
years  had  been  in  Millard  County. 
Both  of  these  homesteads  were  lo- 
cated near  the  high  and  practically 
vertical  banks  of  the  Sevier  River- 
President  Lyman's  on  one  side  of 
the  river  and  ours  on  the  other. 
My  husband  pictured  the  pro- 
posed undertaking  as  a  rare  oppor- 
tunity for  us  to  acquire  a  farm  un- 
der the  reservoir  which  he,  as  chief 
engineer,  had  helped  to  construct. 
And  besides,  he  thought  it  would  be 
a  most  interesting  experience,  espe- 
cially for  me  and  the  children,  get- 
ting us  out  of  the  city  and  into  the 
open  country  for  a  period.  He  re- 
gretted, of  course,  that  his  teaching 
at  the  University  of  Utah  and  his 
private  engineering  work  would  keep 
him  in  the  city  most  of  the  time,  but 
he  assured  us  he  would  do  his  best 
to  be  with  us  each  week  end. 
Knowing  my  fear  of  being  alone 
at  night,  even  in  our  own  home,  and 
my  fear  of  mice  and  snakes,  especial- 
ly of  rattle  snakes  (one  of  which  was 
Page  538 
killed  near  our  tent),  he  promised 
to  take  along  with  us  our  young 
nephew-carpenter  to  protect  me  and 
the  children  and  to  construct  our 
tent-house  which  would  be  made 
proof  against  flies,  bugs,  mice,  and 
snakes.  He  said  we  would  also  be 
provided  with  good,  comfortable 
beds,  a  coal-oil  stove,  and  other  ne- 
cessities, and  whatever  conveniences 
could  be  provided  in  a  tent.  He  ex- 
plained that  of  course  culinary  wa- 
ter could  not  be  provided  on  the 
place,  but  arrangement  would  be 
made  to  have  it  brought  to  us  once 
each  week  in  clean  containers,  and 
poured  into  a  large  barrel  which,  in 
order  to  keep  the  water  cool,  would 
be  set  part  way  into  the  ground. 
Our  family,  which  consisted  of 
my  husband,  myself,  two  children, 
and  our  nephew,  were  on  the  ground 
with  our  horses  and  wagon  and  plow, 
ready  to  procure  (seize)  a  tract  of 
land  at  the  very  moment  settlement 
on  the  reservation  would  be  permit- 
ted. Promptly  at  twelve  o'clock  mid- 
night, or  the  morning  of  the  open- 
ing, the  scramble  began. 
After  plowing  around  the  tract  of 
land  (120  acres)  which  we  had 
chosen,  we  began  immediately  to 
build  our  tent-house  which  had  a 
tongue-and-grooved  floor  with  lum- 
ber walls  up  to  a  height  of  about 
four  feet.  Above  the  boards  was 
carefully  fitted  wire  screen,  and  on 
top  of  all  was  placed  the  tent  which 
was  supported  by  a  framework  of 
timber. 
The  canvas  walls  of  the  tent  could 
be  opened  or  closed,  being  cut  at  the

IN  RETROSPECT 
539 
HOMESTEAD  TENT-HOUSE  OF  LYMAN  FAMILY, 
MILLARD  COUNTY,  UTAH 
Left  to  right:  Wendell  B.  Lyman  (in  cart),  Margaret  Lyman  (Schreiner), 
the  dog,  Amy  B.  Lyman,  Jean  R.  Driggs 
corners  up  to  the  square.  When 
closed,  they  were  securely  fastened 
to  the  wooden  wall;  and  when  open, 
these  flaps,  which  were  attached  to 
horizontal  poles,  could  be  either 
rolled  up  or  stretched  out  to  form 
awnings.  A  second  large  canvas  cov- 
ering, six  to  eight  inches  above  the 
tent  proper,  made  the  tent  cool  and 
was  additional  protection  from  rain. 
The  tent-house  we  felt  was  quite 
adequate  and  satisfactory,  but  we 
soon  found  that  it  would  not  protect 
us  from  the  simoons  or  sandstorms 
which  blew  up  often  in  this  treeless 
and,  except  for  the  sagebrush,  prac- 
tically verdureless  plain.  After  each 
of  these  storms,  it  was  necessary  to 
clean  house— to  shake  all  the  bed- 
ding and  clothing  and  wash  all  the 
dishes— and  even  then  it  seemed  im- 
possible to  get  rid  qf  the  sand.  Aside 
from  these  special  windstorms,  there 
was  nearly  always  enough  breeze  to 
put  out  the  fire  in  the  stove,  making 
the  stove  almost  useless  for  cooking. 
It  was  therefore  necessary  for  me  to 
dig  a  small  trench  outside  the  house, 
place  a  flat  sheet  iron  over  it,  build 
a  fire  under  this— not  an  easy  task— 
and  attempt  to  do  my  cooking  there. 
The  wind  interfered  even  with  this 
contraption,  and  after  trying  one 
whole  day  to  cook  a  rabbit  which 
had  been  given  to  us  by  a  fellow 
homesteader,  I  decided  to  provide 
and  to  prepare  food  which  required 
little  or  no  cooking. 
We  had  to  go  to  the  country  store, 
three  or  four  miles  away,  for  grocer- 
ies and  bread.  All  four  of  us  would 
make  the  trip,  because  each  was 
afraid  to  stay  without  the  others  in 
the  tent-house  on  the  homestead. 
We  usually  walked,  which  was  no 
doubt  good  for  us,  because  our  little

540  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1942 
single-horse  cart  would  not  hold  us  fine  record,  and  a  constant,  habitual 
all.  reader,  she  was  well  informed.  She 
We  did  not  relish  the  drinking  always  made  time  for  serious  study 
water  very  much,  which  was  never  and  for  keeping  up  with  current 
very  cool  or  appetizing;  especially  thought  through  books  and  maga- 
was  this  the  case  with  me  after  I  zines.  A  visit  with  her  in  our  tent- 
found  my  little  Margaret  one  Mon-  house  in  the  desert  was  as  interest- 
day  morning,  dipping  into  the  barrel  ing  and  informative  as  many  I  have 
our  sick  dog  s  dish  (an  old  sardine  had  with  women  in  important  posi- 
can)  for  a  fresh  drink  for  the  dog.  I  tions  and  in  more  pretentious  places, 
immediately  dipped  off  the  top  of  What  a  debt  of  gratitude  we  all  owe 
the  water,  but  it  was  necessary  to  use  to  our  Church  which  emphasizes  the 
the  rest,  since  the  new  supply  did  teaching  that  the  glory  of  God  is  in- 
not  come  until  the  end  of  the  week,  telligence  and  gives  such  rich  oppor- 
Boiling  the  water,  of  course,  made  us  tunities  for  intellectual  and  spiritual 
feel  much  better  about  drinking  it.  development. 
The  dog  was  a  homeless,  half-blind  After  two  months,  since  nobody 
stray  dog  which  had  wandered  into  contested  our  right  to  the  land,  we 
our  camp.    We  couldn't  drive  him  were  permitted  under  a  desert  entry 
away  because  there  was  no  place  for  to  purchase  the  120  acres  at  $1.25 
him  to  go,  so  we  allowed  him  to  live  per  acre,  and  to  return  home, 
with  us  and  tried  to  help  him  regain 
his  health.  ^''P  ^^  California 
Our  nearest  neighbor,  Grandfa-  In  February,  1919,  a  rare  treat 
ther  Lyman,  came  every  few  days  to  came  to  my  husband  and  me  when 
see  how  we  were  getting  on.  An-  President  and  Sister  Grant  invited 
other  very  interesting  and  welcome  us  to  accompany  them  to  Los  Ange- 
visitor  who  called  on  two  occasions  les  for  a  three-weeks'  midwinter  holi- 
was  a  Relief  Society  worker,  Mary  day  at  Deseret,  the  lovely,  hospitable 
M.  Lyman,  a  resident  of  Delta,  ap-  home  which  had  for  a  number  of 
pointed  the  next  year  (1912)  to  years  served  as  a  vacation  home  for 
serve  as  Relief  Society  stake  presi-  the  President  of  the  Church.  Presi- 
dent in  the  newly-organized  Deseret  dent  and  Sister  Anthony  W.  Ivins, 
Stake.  She  was  a  typical  pioneer  always  genial  and  interesting  com- 
wife  and  mother,  used  to  hardships  panions,  were  also  members  of  the 
and  sacrifices,  but  blessed  with  seven  house  party.  Other  dear  and  close 
fine  children.  She  was  also  a  typical  friends  to  all  of  us,  also  visiting  in 
product  of  the  Church,  and  a  de-  Los  Angeles  at  that  same  time,  were 
voted  Church  worker,  true  to  her  Bishop  and  Sister  Charles  W.  Nib- 
religious  ideals  and  to  the  Gospel,  ley  and  Brother  and  Sister  Franklin 
and  experienced  in  unselfish  Church  S.  Richards,  who  joined  us  frequent- 
and   community  service.    Although  ly  at  Deseret. 
deprived  of  many  of  the  opportuni-  The    visit    was    very    pleasurable 
ties  and  advantages  of  city  living,  her  from  first  to  last.  It  is  an  inspiration 
life  was  nevertheless  rich  and  sue-  as  well  as  a  pleasure  to  be  in  the 
cessful.  A  graduate  of  the  old  Uni-  home  of  President  and  Sister  Grant, 
versity  of  Deseret,  where  she  made  a  for  theirs  has  always  been  a  home  of

IN  RETROSPECT 
541 
■jL  IMi.  >"*ww»hiW<iiw^<iff;CC»'**'-^'»»MA 
■MI)V)V'MV*M»iWtyjV'^^OiW)t«M^ 
.    ^.'  .\  ,^  ,"\ 
ELDER  AND  MRS.  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  AND  PRESIDENT  AND 
MRS.  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  AS  THEY  LEFT  HAWAII 
refinement  and  a  household  of  faith 
and  devotion  to  the  Gospel.  And 
there  could  be  no  lovelier  host  and 
hostess.  For  guests  in  their  home 
there  is  perfect  freedom  and  ease,  as 
the  many  can  testify  who  have  been 
entertained  by  them  at,  their  cot- 
tage in  Brighton.  For  hospitality, 
generosity,  and  friendliness,  they 
cannot  be  surpassed.  Their  hearts 
and  homes  have  always  been  open 
to  their  friends.  It  has  been  the 
practice  of  their  whole  lives  to  share 
their  pleasures  with  others.  One 
cannot  imagine  President  Grant 
seeking  pleasure  off  by  himself  or 
for  himself  alone.  His  box  in  the  old 
Salt  Lake  Theatre  was  always  filled 
with  friends,  as  was  also  his  nine- 
passenger  automobile,  when  a  ride 
in  an  auto  was  a  rare  experience. 
This  auto  was  one  of  the  first  to  be 
owned  in  the  State  of  Utah. 
President  Grant's  days  had  been 
such  busy  and  crowded  ones  since 
his  succession  to  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church  the  previous  November 
(1918),  that  he  was  much  in  need 
of  a  rest.  A  vacation  for  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  however,  is  al- 
most impossible.  During  this  "vaca- 
tion" in  California,  President  Grant 
was  almost  constantly  holding  in- 
terviews with  business  men  and 
Church  officials,  but  still  he  found 
a  few  free  hours  each  dav  for  relax- 
ation,  and  he  entered  into  his  partial 
holiday  with  the  same  spirit,  energy, 
and  interest  which  was  characterized 
all  of  the  undertakings  of  his  life. 
The  gentlemen  of  the  party  played 
golf  each   morning  on   week   days