[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Information for Representatives]
542  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1942 
while  the  ladies  watched  from  the  chairman  of  the  public  utilities  com- 
sidelines.  In  the  afternoons  we  went  mission  of  the  Territory  and  now 
for  long  rides  about  the  country,  and  president  of  the  Oahu  Stake,  showed 
in  the  evenings  we  were  occupied  us  every  attention  and  saw  to  it  that 
with  callers  in  the  home  when  there  we  did  not  miss  anything  of  inter- 
were  no  conferences  or  meetings  to  est  and  importance.  His  wife,  Ro- 
attend.  One  pleasant  day  followed  mania  Hyde  WooUey,  daughter  of 
another  in  quick  succession,  and  this  my  precious  friend  and  co-worker, 
extremely  happy  visit  ended  all  too  Jeannette  A.  Hyde,  was  on  the  main- 
soon,  land  at  that  time,  but  we  had  a  hap- 
py visit  to  her  lovely  home  upon  in- 
Hawaiian  Trip  vitation  of  her  husband,  President 
When  President  and  Mrs.  An-  Woolley. 
thony  W.  Ivins  visited  the  Hawaiian  President  Ivins  and  Doctor  Ly- 
Mission  in  the  summer  of  1924,  my  man  were  soon  extremely  busy  with 
husband  and  I  were  invited  to  ac-  Church  business,  and  we  were  all 
company  them.  The  other  members  busy  attending  mission  and  Relief 
of  the  party  were  their  daughter  Society  conferences  and  other  meet- 
Fulvia,  now  Mrs.  Lawrence  Sloan,  ings,  but  with  it  we  all  found  time  to 
and  her  schoolmate  friend.  Miss  enjoy  the  many  interesting  sights 
Bae  Williams,  daughter  of  President  and  the  unique  social  features  pro- 
Clarissa  S.  Williams.  It  was  the  vided  for  us  by  the  Hawaiian  people, 
month  of  June  and  an  ideal  time  for  who  are  so  genial,  gracious,  unselfish, 
a  trip  on  the  great  Pacific  Ocean,  and  hospitable.  We  spent  three 
which,  after  the  first  two  days,  was  weeks  on  the  Islands— one  week  at 
calm  and  peaceful.  My  diary  speaks  Honolulu,  one  at  Laic  in  the  old 
of  the  interest  and  enthusiasm  of  mission  home  near  the  Temple,  and 
this  party  of  six,  ''none  of  whom  had  one  on  an  inter-island  trip.  We 
previously  visited  the  Islands,  none  found  the  missionaries  on  the  Tem- 
of  whom  had  ever  had  a  sea  voyage,  pie  grounds  busy  with  tourists,  as 
and  all  of  whom  were  thrilled  with  sight-seeing  buses  and  touring  cars 
the  prospects  of  a  visit  to  this  Tara-  all  stopped  here  to  view  this  beauti- 
dise  of  the  Pacific' "  ful   spot   on   the   trip   around   the 
The  usual  six  days  were  required  island  of  Oahu. 
for  the  voyage,  at  the  end  of  which  Although  we  had  read  about  Ha- 
the   party  was   received  with   that  waii  and  her  people  and  had  heard 
welcome,  hearty  and  unique,  such  much  from  our  returned  missionar- 
as  only  Hawaii  can  extend.  ies,  there  were  many  surprises  for 
Elder  Eugene  Neff  was  at  that  us.  We  had  known  that  the  mission 
time  president  of  the  mission,  Elder  was  opened  by  George  Q.  Cannon 
William    Waddoups,    president    of  in  1850— seventy-four  years  before— 
the  Temple,  and  Elder  Antoine  R.  but  had  not  realized  all  that  the 
Ivins,  manager  of  the  great  sugar  Gospel  has  meant  to  the  country  as 
plantation  which  was  then  owned  by  a  whole,  as  well  as  to  the  Hawaiian 
the  Church.    These  brethren,  with  people,    one-third    of    whom    were 
their  charming  and  hospitable  wives,  members  of  the  Church.  We  found 
and    Elder    Ralph    Woolley,    then  to  our  surprise  that  Hawaiians  and

IN  RETROSPECT 
543 
GROUP  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  ON  ROADSIDE,  KONA,  HAWAII 
Left  to  right,  standing:  Elder  Henry  J.  Dehaun,  President  Eugene  J.  Neff,  Elder 
Walter  N.  Steffens,  Elder  William  W.  McCune,  Elizabeth  S.  Ivins,  President 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Fulvia  Ivins,  Bae  Williams,  Dr.  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Vilate 
Ivins,  Amy  B.  Lyman.   Kneeling  in  front  is  a  group  of  Hawaiian  children. 
part  Hawaiians  together  formed  less 
than  one-sixth  of  the  population  of 
the  Islands  at  that  time.  Today,  the 
proportion  is  even  less,  with  14,000 
pure  Hawaiians  and  52,000  part  Ha- 
waiians composing  about  one-sev- 
enth of  the  present  total  population 
of  nearly  half  a  million.  Making  up 
the  rest  of  the  population  are  160,- 
000  Japanese,  150,000  whites,  52,000 
Filipinos,  30,000  Chinese,  and  small- 
er numbers  of  several  other  groups. 
The  Latter-day  Saint  plantation 
school  which  was  in  operation  at  the 
time  of  our  visit,  but  which  has  since 
been  absorbed  into  the  public  school 
system,  was  a  typical  example  of  the 
variety  of  races  in  a  given  group.  The 
school  was  taught  by  our  women 
missionaries.  "There  were  170  pu- 
pils in  attendance,  made  up  of  the 
following  races:  Hawaiian,  Japanese, 
Samoan,  Puerto  Rican,  Chinese, 
Filipino,  American,  Tongan,  Span- 
ish, Filipino  -  Spanish,  Hawaiian- 
Irish,  Hawaiian-American,  Hawaiian- 
Chinese,  Hawaiian-Japanese,  Ha- 
waiian -  Samoan,  Hawaiian  -  Indian, 
English  -  Hawaiian  -  Chinese  -  Span- 
ish, Chinese-Hawaiian-Norwegian. 
There  were  also  some  Negro-Ha- 
waiian-Irish, Portuguese,  and  Korean 
children  in  the  neighborhood  near 
the  plantation,  who  did  not  attend 
day  school,  but  who  came  occasion- 
ally to  Sunday  School.'' 
Since  the  recent  tragedy  at  Pearl 
Harbor,  the  attention  of  the  whole 
world  has  been  focused  on  this  group 
of  twelve  islands  and  their  impor- 
tance to  the  United  States  proper, 
for  they  form  the  junction  of  most 
of  the  steamer  routes  across  the  Pa- 
cific, and  are  in  reality  the  "key  to

544  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1942 
the  Pacific''  and  the  "gateway  to  to  the  convention  the  next  day.    I 
the  Orient."  consulted  my  husband  and  a  few 
Our  anticipations  with  respect  to  friends,  who  saw  no  reason  for  my 
such   a    trip    with    such    dcHghtful  refusing,  so  I  comphed  with  the  re- 
travehng     companions     had     been  quest.    After  receiving  the  nomina- 
great,  but  the  reaHzation  was  even  tion,  I  found  that  there  were  certain 
greater.  It  was  a  pleasure  and  a  real  responsibilities    I    must   assume    at 
privilege  to  be  so  closely  associated  once.    First,  there  was  a  campaign 
with    President    and    Sister    Ivins  contribution  to  make.    Next,  I  was 
whose    lives    and    experiences    had  expected  to  help  with  the  campaign 
been  so  rich.  A  great  reader  and  an  itself  by  going  wherever  I  was  sent, 
expert    and    charming    story-teller,  both  early  and  late  in  the  day,  to 
President     Ivins     entertained     and  speak  before  political  meetings.    To 
thrilled  us   during  those  long  and  me  this  was  a  very  difficult  task.    I 
pleasant   days   on   the   ocean,   and  found  that  I  was  expected  to  point 
everywhere  his  love  of  nature,  in-  out  the  virtues  of  one  party  and  the 
eluding  human  nature,  was  evident  weaknesses  of  the  other,  and  to  an- 
during  our  stay  in  the  Islands.    He  swer  questions  and  arguments  of  all 
was  invited  by  the  captain  of  the  sorts. 
ship  to  speak  at  the  Sunday  services  When  I  heard  the  chairman  of 
both  going  and  coming,  and  his  ad-  the  women's  division  of  the  Nation- 
dresses  were  listened  to  with  rapt  at-  al  Democratic  Party  at  the  Wom- 
tention  by  his  fellow  passengers.  en's  Centennial  held  in  New  York 
.     o         T      •  7  i"  194O7  assert  that  one  reason  why 
Experience  m  State  Legislature  ^^^^^    ^lawe    not    been    advanced 
Being  elected  to  and  serving  in  more  rapidly  politically  is  because 
the  state  legislature  is  an  interesting  ''they  have  not  been  willing  to  take 
experience.     Early  one  morning  in  the  rough  and  tumble  of  a  political 
the  fall  of  1922,  I  was  called  on  the  campaign,"  I  readily  agreed  with  her. 
telephone    by    my    close    personal  it  was  soon  evident  to  me  that  I 
friend,  Mrs.  Jeannette  A.  Hyde,  na-  was  not  very  well  informed  with  re- 
tional  Republican  committeewoman  spect  to  politics  and  political  pro- 
from  Utah,  who  asked  if  I  would  be  cedures,  and  not  sufficiently  familiar 
willing  for  my  name  to  come  before  with  the  issues  of  the  campaign  to 
the    Republican     convention     that  speak  very  intelligently  upon  them, 
afternoon   as   a   candidate   for   the  so  I  decided  to  talk  mostly  about 
House  of  Representatives.  This  was  women.     I  called  attention  to  the 
a  great  surprise  to  me,  for  while  I  fact  that  since  leadership  is  always 
had  always  been  interested  in  public  scarce  and  since  the  supply  had  been 
affairs  and  had  rarely  missed  an  op-  increased   by   the   emancipation   of 
portunity  to  vote,  I  had  taken  no  women,  we  should  look  among  wom- 
active  part  in  politics.  She  told  how  en's  groups  for  new  leaders,  especial-