[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: INFORMATION FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES]
INFORMATION FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES (Continued from page 556)
Magazine content for the current year, 1942, is similar to that for 1941 with two main exceptions: first, special emphasis is being given during this centennial year to cover pictures, and articles related to Relief Society's inspiring and dramatic history; and, second, the postponement of the general Relief Society conferences because of the war has released space ordinarily used for conference proceedings for a variety of other material.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE CAMPAIGNS
EARL H. CROCKETT, Granite Stake Magazine representative, submitted the following report:
"The Lion House Social Center was the scene of a picturesque luncheon given for the ward Magazine representatives, ward presidents and ward membership coordinators by the Granite Stake Relief Society, on September 16, 1941. Because Magazine and membership are so closely related to each other and the success of each affects the other, we felt the need for bringing the Magazine representatives and coordinators together. A bowl of varicolored flowers centered the table, and at each plate there was a scroll of paper, held in place by a flower and ribbon.
"The purpose of the fourth 'annual get-together luncheon' was to inject each one present with a dose of 'pep,' making them immune to discouragement, disappointment, and doubt, preparatory to the opening of our Magazine drive which was to take place during the month of October.
"Our special guest for the day was General President Amy Brown Lyman, who willingly gave us of her fund of knowledge and experience pertaining to the Magazine. We were privileged to give our ward workers the benefit of her inspiration.
"During the course of the afternoon, the twenty scrolls marking the places were untied, and each guest found typewritten thereon a pertinent fact, gathered by Counselor Vauna S. Jacobsen, pertaining to the Magazine, several of which are here quoted:
1. The Relief Society Magazine is printed with clear, legible type on paper that must be ordered one year in advance. This is of special benefit to older women.
2. There is a minimum of advertising in the Magazine, and none running through the contents. All advertising is either at the front or the back. In each issue there are 74 pages of good reading material.
3. The Relief Society Magazine is an excellent outlet for the literary talent of our Latter-day Saint women. It attracts many of our best creative writers in the fields of prose, poetry, and fiction.
4. Timely articles on current problems are a special feature of the Magazine.
5. The Relief Society Magazine is distributed throughout the United States, including the territories of Alaska and Hawaii, and in Canada, Australia, Africa, South America, Mexico, Canal Zone, most European countries (prior to the war), India, China, the islands of the sea, and Syria.
