[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Article | Title: Bend in the River Iris Schow]
Bend  in  the  River 
Ins  Schow 
WITH  mathematical  precision,  tern  of  your  existence.    It's  as  if  the 
Natalie    Gibson    eased  her  river  of  your  life  had  to  make  a  great 
smart  navy  and  red  hat  to  a  bend  and  strike  a  new  course  through 
perky  angle,  bestowing  on  her  reflec-  strange  woods  and  thickets.      You 
tion  a  fleeting  yet  critical  inspection,  feel  unable  to  realize  where  you  are 
'1  really  must  dash,  Mom,"  she  going.    But,  of  course,  I  had  you  six 
asserted.     "No  time  to  talk  about  children  to  bring  up  and  the  farm  to 
whether  or  not  it's  for  my  'best  good'  keep  running.    There  wasn't  much 
to  join  your  Relief  Society."  time  to  grieve,  with  a  dozen  tasks 
Snatching  her  purse  and  gloves,  always  staring  me  in  the  face." 
she  terminated  Mrs.  Reed's  protest  ''Sometimes  I  almost  wish  Natalie 
with  a  quick  kiss  and  almost  ran  out  had  to  work  to  support  herself  and 
to  her  roadster.  Ruth,"  said  Bessie  anxiously.  ''With 
Bessie  Reed  moved  to  the  window,  her  knowledge  of  home  economics, 
struggling  to  shape  into  a  smile  the  she  could  fill  a  position  with  the 
lines  of  disappointment  on  her  face  Farm  Bureau  extension  service,  but 
as  she  watched  her  graceful  blond  Joel's  interest  in  the  Gibson  Woolen 
daughter  drive  away.    It  hurt,  being  Mills  gives  her  an  ample  income.    I 
put  off,  left  in  the  middle  of  what  had  thought  that  if  I  could  only  get 
she  wanted  to  say.  She  knew  that  she,  her  to  come  with  me  to  Relief  So- 
in  turn,  was  being  watched  by  her  ciety,  she  might  feel  that  she  could 
own  aged,  almost  helpless  mother,  make    a    real    contribution  to  our 
who  sat  in  a  comfortable  chair  near  studies,  especially  in  nutrition.  That 
the  window.  would  give  her  a  more  wholesome 
"Another   party!"   said   Grandma  social  interest.    But  you've  seen  the 
Fuller.  "Natalie  goes   to  so  many,  response  I  get.  ..." 
you'd  think  she  couldn't  help  but  ''She  isn't  unkind  about  it,  just 
tire  of  them."  indifferent,"  pointed  out  Grandma 
"She  isn't  really  the  frivolous  type.  Fuller. 
Mother,"  said  Bessie  mildly.      She  "But  indifference  is  so    hard    to 
sat  down  and  picked  up  her  hand-  overcome,"    Bessie    stated    wearily, 
work  mechanically.     "It's  just  that  "And  now  there's  the  Relief  Society 
Natalie  doesn't  know  what  to  do  festival— a  big  event  to  honor  the 
with  herself  since  Joel  died.     This  beginning  of  the    Society's    second 
continual  gadding  is  her  way  of  find-  hundred  years  of  service.       We've 
ing  something  to  occupy  her  mind,  worked  and  planned    for    this    for 
She  doesn't  get  any  real  satisfaction  weeks.    All  the  sisters  are  to  bring 
from  it."  their  daughters.    When  I  think  of 
"I  know.    Haven't  I  been  through  sitting  up  there  as  secretary,  without 
the  same  thing  myself?"  Grandma  Natalie  along,  sometimes  I  feel  that 
Fuller  leaned  forward  a  little,  speak-  I  just  can't  go  through  it.  .  .  .  "  Bes- 
ing  earnestly.    "Why,  when  your  fa-  sie's  voice  broke.    She  rose  hastily, 
ther  died,  I  felt  lost,  Bessie.    Losing  clinching  her  jaws  together  in  a  fran- 
your  husband  changes  the  whole  pat-  tic  effort  to  keep  back    the    tears. 
Page  533

534  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1942 
''Well/'  she  stated,  attempting  non-  longed  to  her  as  well  as  to  Bessie, 
chalance,  "Fll  have  to  scat  for  the  She  would  do  her  best  to  help  Na- 
kitchen,  or  there'll  be  no  dinner."  talie  understand. 
Left  alone,  Grandma   Fuller   sat 
very  still,  her  wrinkled  chin  droop-  IVrEXT  morning  while  Natalie  ti- 
ing  toward  her  chest.     She  under-  ^    died  the  living  room,  Grandma 
stood  what  her  daughter  had  left  un-  Fuller  related  memories  of  the  past, 
said;  pride  kept  Bessie  from  urging  *1  wasn't  born  till  '56,  two  months 
Natalie  to  come  to  the  Relief  Society  after  Pa  and  Ma  reached  the  Valley," 
party  ''for  the  sake  of  mother."    She  she  said,  "but  my  sister  Minnie  was 
respected  that  pride.  quite  a  big  girl  when  they  crossed  the 
If  only  Natalie  could  understand  plains.    She  used  to  tell  me  how  one 
what  membership  in  the  Relief  So-  night  when  she  was  left  alone  in  the 
ciety  has  meant  to  the  women  of  wagon  with  Joey  and  Rube— Pa  and 
our    family    since    pioneer    days.  Ma  were  both  tending  the  sick— she 
thought  Grandma  Fuller.    If  I  could  woke  up  to  find  Ma  peeling  off  the 
help  her  see  how  that  glorious  sister-  wagon  cover  in  a  regular  downpour 
hood  has  sustained  us  in  our  sorrows  of  rain.    Ma  needed  it  to  shelter  a 
and  prompted  us  to  develop  our  best  sister  who  was  having  a  baby— their 
qualities  in  order  to  help  others.  .  .  .  covered  wagon   was   leaking  badly. 
Once  she  realized  these  things,  she  Well,  with  what  help  Minnie  could 
would  want  to  join.  give  her.  Ma  took  that  cover  down. 
Grandma   Fuller's   intent  brown  in  her  condition,  mind  you.     The 
eyes  did  not  see  the  pleasant  resi-  children    huddled    together,    while 
dential  street  outside  the   window;  Minnie  carried  out  Ma's  directions 
she  was  looking  back,  down  the  ave-  to  protect  them  as  best  she  could 
nues  qf  memory.     She  thought  of  with  quilts  and  coats    spread    over 
her  mother,  pregnant,  jolting  across  boxes  and  the  wagon  seat.    The  sis- 
the  prairies  toward  Zion,  forgetful  ters  saved  the  mother  and  babe  that 
of  personal  discomfort  in  her  efforts  night,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  and 
to  aid  her  "sisters  in  the  Gospel."  Ma's  children  were  none  the  worse 
She   remembered   her   own   young  for  their  exposure    to    the    storm, 
womanhood,  her  discouraging  life  on  That's  what  Relief   Society   meant 
the  farm.     Surely  she  would  have  then." 
given  up  to  her  longing  for  town  "Life  must  have  been  very  hard 
life,  but  for  the  heartening  example  in  those  days,"  murmured  Natalie, 
of  the  handful  of  Relief  Society  the  tenderness  which  had  once  char- 
members  out  there.  And  Bessie,  acterized  her  expression  crossing  her 
what  would  have  sustained  her  back  face  for  an  instant, 
in  1917,  when  her  sons  had  gone  to  Inwardly  welcoming  this  good 
war,  if  she  had  not  shared  in  the  faith  sign,  Grandma  Fuller  continued  tell- 
and  work  of  the  sisterhood?  Even  ing  incidents  which  illustrated  her 
now,  it  was  largely  because  of  the  own  and  Bessie's  reasons  for  their 
Relief  Society  activities  that  Bessie  devotion  to  the  Relief  Society.  "And 
was  so  remarkably  well-informed.  so  for  three  generations,"  she  con- 
Grandma  Fuller's  chin  rose  pur-  eluded,  "the  women  of  our  family 
posefully.     The   responsibility   be-  have  done  whatever  the  Relief  So-

BEND  IN  THE  RIVER  535 
ciety  has  requested.    We  have  never  Grandma     Fuller     asked     eagerly. 
overlooked    an    hour's    service    or  'Then  you  could  see  a  sample  of 
missed    giving    a    bushel  of  wheat  each  lesson  department,  and  you'd 
that's  been  asked  of  us.    And  we've  know  how  the    Relief    Society  has 
been  well  repaid,  too,  in  increased  kept  up  with  the  times.    Why,  Eva 
usefulness  and  information  and  hap-  Brent  Laine  teaches  the  literary  les- 
piness.   That's  why  I  hope  you  won't  sons  now  she's  married,  and  she's  a 
pass  up  the  Relief  Society,  Natalie,  well-educated  member  of  your  gen- 
I  feel  sure  it  can  mean  as  much  to  eration,  dear." 
you  as  it  has  to  any  of  us."  ''Oh,  Eva  Brent,"    said    Natalie, 
''Sweet  old  Grandma,"  said  Nata-  "literary  lessons  and  dramatizations 
lie,  giving  her  grandmother's  shoul-  are  her  idea  of  fun,  but  I'm  afraid 
ders  an  affectionate  little  hug,  I'd  find  them  a  little  stuffy."  Then, 
"sooner  or  later  I'll  join  your  Relief  noticing  Grandma  Fuller's  look  of 
Society,  of  course.  But  there's  no  disappointment,  she  added  appeas- 
special  rush.  I  have  plenty  of  friends  ingly,  "But  I'll  see.  Maybe  if  I'm 
to  keep  my  time  occupied,  and  no-  not  too  rushed  by  Tuesday.  ..." 
body  here  in  the  ward  really  needs  She  hurried  away, 
my  help.  It  isn't  as  if  we  were  cross- 
ing the  plains  or  settling  the  state.  QRANDMA  FULLER  sensed  that 
If  real  want  and  hardship  should  this  was  not  a  promise.  By 
come,  you  know  I'd  do  whatever  I  Tuesday  morning  she  could  see  that 
could  to  help.  So  don't  trouble  your  •  Natalie  had  forgotten  the  con  versa- 
pretty  head  about  me."  tion.    She  had  related  memories  of 
Natalie's  blue  eyes  sparkled  as  she  some  of  her  best  experiences  and 
gave  Grandma  Fuller   a    twinkling  spoken  of  her  most  sacred  ideals,  but 
smile  that  was  disarmingly  affection-  she  had  failed  to  make  Natalie  sec. 
ate.  Why?  It  was  not  as  if  Natalie  were 
Grandma  Fuller  had  not  given  up.  opposed  to  religion.  She  would  have 
"But,  Natalie,  on  Tuesday  there's  protested  vehemently  if  her  fourteen- 
the  festival  in  honor  of  the  beginning  year-old  daughter  Ruth  had  not  been 
of  Relief  Society's  second  one  hun-  in  regular  attendance  at  Sunday 
dred  years.  They're  going  to  act  out  school.  Why  had  she  not  responded? 
an  original  play.  The  first  act  is  to  Grandma  Fuller  leaned  back  in  her 
show  how  the  Society  was  organized  chair,  apparently  relaxed,  but  her 
back  in  Nauvoo  in  1842.  The  other  mind  was  very  busy, 
acts  will  show  how  the  various  lesson  Suddenly  she  remembered  the  ex- 
departments  are  conducted.  There's  cuse  Natalie  had  given.  "Nobody 
to  be  an  act  about  literature,  and  here  in  the  ward  really  needs  my 
one  about  the  work-and-business  de-  help,"  she  had  said.  She  thought 
partment— they  study  about  nutri-  that  she  was  not  needed.  That  was 
tion  in  this  department  and.  ..."  why  she  put  off  real  duties  in  favor 
"Yes,  Grandma,  Mom  was  telling  of  trivial  pleasures.      But  someone 
us  about  it  at  the  table  the  other  did  need  Natalie  at  the  celebration, 
day."       Natalie's  manner  was  still  Grandma  Fuller  thought  of  Bessie's 
playfully  affectionate.  hurt  look  when  she  had  spoken  of 
"Why  don't  you  go  to  it,  Natalie?"  going  as  an  officer  to  help  entertain