[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: 'How Shall We Preserve the Mental Health of Our Children in Wartime'? Mark K. Allen]
PRESERVING  MENTAL  HEALTH  IN  WARTIME 
529 
breakdown.  Fortunately,  there  is 
little  foundation  for  this  fear.  In 
England,  children  have  lived 
through  ruthless  bombings  with  sur- 
prisingly few  cases  of  actual  war  neu- 
roses. In  a  broadcast  from  England 
last  January,  the  following  state- 
ment was  made:  ''Our  experience 
ought  to  encourage  them.  The 
school  medical  officer  of  the  county 
of  London  reported  last  week  that 
there  was  no  evidence  among  Lon- 
don children  of  nervous  disorder  or 
shock  caused  by  air  raids.  They  stood 
it  as  well  as  adults,  maybe  better. 
Nor  did  living  in  air-raid  shelters  do 
them  any  harm.  We  had  no  epidem- 
ic of  disease. 
'The  bad  effects  seemed  to  be 
first  on  their  education.  When  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  the  children 
were  evacuated  to  the  country,  there 
was  a  shortage  of  school  buildings. 
The  schools  were  taken  over  for 
civilian  defense,  and  a  good  many 
children  got  little  or  no  education. 
When  the  problem  was  fully  under- 
stood it  was  put  right,  and  by  last 
June  nearly  98  per  cent  of  British 
children  were  once  more  getting 
full-time  schooling. 
"The  second  bad  effect  was  an  in- 
crease in  what  is  called  juvenile  de- 
linquency, but  what  the  ordinary 
parent  calls  'naughtiness.'  A  lot 
more  children  got  into  trouble  with 
the  police  in  the  first  year  of  the  war 
than  in  the  last.  .  .  .  The  causes  were 
chiefly  the  breaking  up  of  the  home 
life  and  home  discipline.  Fathers 
were  in  the  army  and  mothers  were 
doing  war  work.  Children  had  too 
much  time  on  their  hands.  Not  be- 
ing able  to  go  to  school,  the  ease  of 
stealing  from  bombed  buildings  and 
the  excitement  of  the  war  in  general 
helped     them     to     misbehave/' 
(Quoted  from  an  excellent  bulletin 
of  U.  S.  Children's  Bureau,  "To 
Parents  in  Wartime,"  page  18.) 
One  of  the  most  serious  effects  on 
the  English  children  grew  out  of 
their  mass  evacuation  without  ade- 
quate social  placement  services. 
Sometimes  their  own  homes  were 
destroyed  or  threatened  and  large 
numbers  of  children  were  moved  in 
great  haste  to  centers  where  a  moth- 
er's intimate  contact  was  lost.  This 
uprooting  of  the  noinial  aficctional 
bonds  between  members  of  the 
family  is  the  most  serious  mental 
hazard  of  war. 
I7VERY  child  requires  three  fun- 
damental kinds  of  experience  to 
maintain  mental  health:  First,  is 
the  feeUng  of  emotional  security— 
the  feeling  of  being  wanted,  of  be- 
longing to  someone  who  cares.  Sec- 
ond, is  the  feeling  that  one  has  "a 
place  in  the  sun,"  through  his 
achievement— a  feeling  of  the  im- 
portance of  his  status  in  society. 
Even  small  children  do  "cute  tricks" 
of  the  "watch  me"  variety  to  give 
them  a  feeling  that  they  are  some- 
body. Adolescents  strive  earnestly, 
often  ridiculously,  to  assume  grown- 
up ways.  A  strong  desire  to  appear 
to  have  arrived  at  adult  status 
drives  many  youths  to  use  tobacco, 
drive  automobiles  recklessly,  and  to 
hide  all  childish  emotions,  however 
strongly  they  may  feel  them.  Third, 
children  require  experiences  that 
lead  to  a  feeling  of  mastery  over  ob- 
stacles. The  desire  for  mastery  may 
be  effectively  utilized  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  our  young  people  for  future 
democratic  living. 
Mental  health  in  childhood  can 
be  promoted  through  the  satisfac- 
tion of  the  above  three  needs.  Con-

530  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1942 
sider  first  the  need  ioi  affectional  and  he  can  make  some  concrete  con- 
bonds.  When  homes  are  broken  by  tributions  to  the  war  effort,  thereby 
fathers  or  brothers  leaving  with  the  dispeUing  his  fears, 
armed  forces,  substitutes  should  be  The  following  excerpt  from  a  re- 
made whenever  possible.  Other  port  on  last  year's  war  work  of  chil- 
adult  males— uncles,  cousins,  grand-  dren  in  Toronto,  Canada,  indicates