[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Salvage for Victory]
campaigns,  relief  fund  drives,  salvage  dangers  more  than  he  should.  What 
campaigns,  sewing  and  knitting  pro-  the  parent  should  do  is  to  fit  the 
jects,  farm  labor  replacements  (beet  news  to  the  child's  perspective.  Re- 
thinning,  fruit  gathering,  weeding,  ports  of  new  invasions  in  Europe 
and  heavier  farm  work  for  the  older  often  meant  to  the  child  that  the 
boys),  fruit  canning,  fruit  conserva-  enemy  was  now  on  the  next  street 
tion,  and  fuel  gathering.  The  impor-  about  ready  to  invade  his  own  play- 
tance  of  this  work  will  increase  as  the  ground  and  bedroom.  In  such  cases, 
man-power  problem  increases.  maps  and   careful   explanations   of 
distances  and  time  of  travel  involved 
TN  addition  to  provision  for  the  sat-  should  be  given. 
isfaction  of  the  child's  needs  for  On  the  other  hand,  should  actual 
a    feeling    of    emotional    security  danger  approach,  children  should  be 
through  affection,  a  sense  of  status  realistically  prepared  for  the  worst, 
through  appropriate  assignments  in  Children  can  bear  a  great  deal  if 
war  work,  and  a  sense  of  achieve-  they  are  v^sely  prepared  for  it.  They 
ment  through  acquiring  useful  skills  should  be  as  well  prepared  as  pos- 
and  through  other  worth-while  ac-  sible  to  help  themselves  and  others 
complishments,  a  parent  should  con-  should  emergencies  arise.  This  teach- 
sider  also  the  question  of  how  to  dis-  ing  should  not  be  done  v^th  alarm 
cuss  the  war  with  children.     Some  nor  in  an  atmosphere  of  panic  and 
mothers  would  say,  ''Oh,  it  is  too  desperation,  but  in  the  cool,  sensible 
horrible.  Why  worry  the  child  with  manner  in  which  one  would  prepare 
something    he     can     do     nothing  for  any  difficult  undertaking.  Then, 
about?"  These  mothers  may  not  per-  it  is  even  likely  to  be  fun  for  the 
mit  the  child  to  hear  radio  reports  children. 
nor  to  read  nor  discuss  the  war  news.  '  Children  respond  more  to  their 
Plausible  as  this  practice  may  seem,  parents'  attitudes  than  they  do  to 
child-guidance  experts  are  fairly  well  the  dangers  themselves.  A  mother's 
agreed  that  children  should  be  frank-  anxiety  untempered  with  reason  will 
ly  told  the  realities  of  the  war.    To  engender  more  fear  in  children  than