[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Literature The]

Yet it held within its confines the highest civilization of the Old World.
The Influence of the Natural Background Upon the Character of the Hebrew People
In a study of any great literature in which human beings are revealed in their relationships to each other and to their physical world, the natural background of the story or drama is important. The influence of geography upon the destiny of the Chosen People is particularly striking. The smallness of the land and its isolation developed characteristics among the Hebrew people important to their contribution to the world. Had Palestine taken on ordinary cosmopolitanism, had it been subject to closer contact with influences that would have made it narrow, stubborn, and inhospitable, the story of the Chosen People would have been vastly different.
In Chapter III of The English Bible as Literature, Mr. Dinsmore discusses most interestingly the influences of the surroundings upon the literature of the Chosen People. He shows how the strength of the hills, the tang of the upland air, the broad horizons energized the wills, stimulated the imaginations, shaped the character of the Hebrew people; how religious beliefs and expressions were natural under the circumstances; how inbreeding and the discipline of earlier years of nomadic life developed a virile people able to perform the task God had given them.
The isolation of the Latter-day Saints, God's chosen people of modern times, there in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains, presents a significant analogy. Could the Latter-day Saints have worked out their unique destiny had they not in those important, formative years of the early existence of the Church been separated from the rest of the world? Does this thought perhaps throw a new light upon the persecutions which drove them into isolation?
Dr. Philo Buck in The Golden Thread says: "The early Hebrew prided himself upon his desert origin and mode of life. He was a Bedouin who could not forget the aristocracy of the desert nomad.... By a fortunate series of circumstances he was later forced against the great trade route between Babylonia and Egypt and thus brought into contact with old and settled cultures of the world.... It was a fortunate site these Children of Israel chose, but one of deadly danger; for they must be strong to hold their position; and as wars between Egypt and Babylonia were not infrequent, the Hebrews learned the misery of a small buffer state between two powerful rivals. Palestine was the Belgium of the Near East."
Doctor Buck continues with an interesting account of the climb to national greatness of the Hebrews, their short but brilliant period of national superiority. He shows how the political and economic changes through which they passed became the motive for much of their best literature. But he also emphasizes the fact that through their entire history the Hebrews never forgot the isolation of their desert origin and the simplicity of their life then, during which time they developed their great personal loyalty to the Hebrew God, Yahweh. "Kings and a landed aristocracy and the luxury of the settled life and the new impact of the surrounding Paganism were ever felt to be a stain on the original purity of the desert manners. Luxury was always synonymous with sin." They considered themselves a people "set apart."
In like manner are we urged to consider ourselves, if we are to perform the work the Lord has given us the privilege of doing. We, as they, must not forget our heritage which has made us "a peculiar people," a people "set apart" from the rest of mankind for a very special mission.
The Bible reveals the unfoldment of the people and shows the influence of geography upon that unfolding "way of life." Doctor Buck says: "Their finest poetry is always inspired, not by the ways of men, but by the majesty of nature and its mystery." Following is one of the many examples which might be quoted:
"The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, And night unto night sheweth knowledge. There is no speech nor language, Where voice is not heard. Their line is gone out through all the earth, And their words to the end of the world." ?(19th Psalm)
We see the influence of environment upon the poetic imagination when the singer turns from the burning heat to the comfort of the oasis and the running brook:
"The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: He leadeth me beside the still waters, He restoreth my soul." ?(23rd Psalm)
This brief discussion has attempted two things: to give some idea of the physical features of the Holy Land, and to indicate that the geography of a country influences the life of the people and the literature they produce.
Lesson Helps
1. Display maps of the Holy Land and point out geographic features prominent in Biblical literature.
2. If possible make a collection of pictures showing the people and typical activities of early life in Palestine. Perhaps someone who has visited the Holy Land can be presented to discuss the country and the customs typical of Hebrew life.
3. Discuss the influence of environment upon the character and personality of different peoples. Illustrate with examples from the Hebrews and the Latter-day Saints.
4. Read excerpts from Bible poetry to show the influence of natural surroundings upon literature.
References
Dinsmore, C. A., The English Bible As Literature, Chapter III. Alder, Lydia D., The Holy Land. Fulleylove and Kelman, The Holy Land, Painted and Described (Beautifully Illustrated). Carpenter, Frank George, The Holy Land and Syria. Armstrong, George H., How to Know the Bible. James, Baike, Living Stories of the Bible. (This has lovely colored pictures revealing the physical background and the people in action.)