[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Theology and Testimony]

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
"Articles of Faith", by James E. Talmage
Lesson 10 Authority in the Ministry (Tuesday, November 3, 1942)
Condensation of Chapter 10 of Articles of Faith, by Talmage
(This condensation is placed in the Magazine in the hope that it will result in more class members familiarizing themselves with the lesson.)
Scriptural Examples
All who minister in the ordinances of the Gospel should be called and commissioned by the authority of our Heavenly Father. The scriptures sustain this view. Familiar examples are those of Noah (Genesis 6:8), Abraham (Genesis 12-25; Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham), Samuel (I Samuel 3:4-14), Isaiah (Isaiah 1:1; 2:1; 6:8-9), Twelve Apostles chosen by Christ (Matthew 4:18-20; 18:19-20; Mark 16:15; John 6:70; 15:16), and others.
Ordination of Men to the Ministry
Ordination, as sanctioned by scriptural precedent and established by direct revelation of God's will, is to be effected through the gift of prophecy and by the laying on of hands by those who are in authority. Paul admonished Timothy as follows: "Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery,..." (I Timothy 4:14) And again, "... Stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands." (II Timothy 1:6)
Unauthorized Ministrations
In His dealings with mankind, God has ever recognized and honored the Priesthood established by His direction; and has never accepted any unauthorized assumption of authority. Examples from scripture of punishment for usurpation of authority are: Korah (Numbers 16), and Miriam the sister of Moses (Numbers 12).
Teachers True and False
Only those who are duly authorized to teach can be regarded as true expounders of the word of God. Authority to act in the name of the Lord is given to those only who are chosen of God. It can not be had for the mere asking. It can not be bought with money. The apostles of old knew of men who sought to arrogate unto themselves the right to officiate in things divine, thus becoming servants of Satan. (Acts 20:28-30)
Divine Authority in the Present Dispensation
Because the authority of the Holy Priesthood was taken from the earth as the apostles of old were slain, a restoration became necessary in the latter days. In 1829, John the Baptist ordained Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery to the lesser or Aaronic Priesthood. Shortly after, Peter, James, and John appeared to Joseph and Oliver and ordained the two to the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood. Thus, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, no man receives the Priesthood except under the hand of one who holds that Priesthood himself, and who in turn can trace his authority as having come in direct line from heavenly messengers through the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Foreordination
The natures, dispositions, and tendencies of men are known to the Father of their spirits, even before these beings are born in mortality. He need not wait for them to develop and prove their capacities before He appoints them to special labors in the fulfillment of the Divine purposes. There is abundant evidence that Christ was chosen and ordained to be the Redeemer of the world. (I Peter 1:20)
Foreordination Does Not Imply Compulsion
God's knowledge and understanding of spiritual and human nature enables Him to conclude with certainty as to the actions of any of His children under given conditions; yet such knowledge has no determining influence upon the person. There are those whose integrity and faithfulness have been proved in the premortal state. So, the Lord knows how unreservedly they may be trusted. Many of them are called to special and exalted labors as chosen servants. Each of us is assured our free agency in the way we conduct our lives.
Pre-existence of Spirits
That spirits existed as organized intelligences and exercised their free agency during the primeval stage is clear from the declaration of the Lord to Abraham:
And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon, and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who kept their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever. (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 3:26)
Christ explained and referred to, on many occasions, His pre-existence, examples of which are numerous in the New Testament.

LESSON PLAN
Article 5?"We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof."
Lesson Aim: To teach that the true church operates under men ministering in the ordinances of the Gospel who have been called and commissioned for their sacred duties by Divine authority.
Suggested Material Outline
I. Authority Needed in an Orderly Society When a group of individuals band together for any cause, authority must be delegated and responsibility placed. (See Sunday Night Talks, by James E. Talmage.)
II. Authority to Administer in the Ordinances of the Gospel a. What it means to be called of God. (See Sunday Night Talks, by James E. Talmage, p. 220.) b. Men called of God in former days c. How ordination of men is effected
III. Restoration of Authority in Present Dispensation a. Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood restored b. Foreordination and pre-existence
Suggested Method Outline
It is suggested that the teacher assign the topic "Men Called of God in Former Days" and also "The Restoration of Authority in the Present Dispensation." More time will probably be allotted to the latter subject because of its importance to Church members. Questions which may be asked during the presentation of the lesson might be:
1. How can you prove the existence of the Priesthood in the Church today?
2. Name the principal holders of the Priesthood from Adam to Moses.
3. In what manner is the Priesthood conferred?
4. What attitude does God take toward a person who attempts to use his authority in an unrighteous manner? (Doctrine and Covenants 121:34-40)
5. In what sense, if at all, can a human institution based on Christian principles be classed as God's Church.
Class leaders should be aware of the opportunity to enlist the attention and aid of the women of the Church in supporting those holding the Priesthood, for "It is in this vast body of authority that the strength of the organization (the Church) lies." The testimonies of the class members might center about the thought of what it means to the mothers in the home to have men in the Church with the authority to administer the ordinances of the Gospel.
References
Talmage, James E., Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 99-103. Talmage, James E., Sunday Night Thoughts, p. 220.