[Vol29 | August 1942 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Cover Garfield Beach D]
FROM  THE  FIELD 
Vera  White  Pohlman,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
Regulations  governing  the  submittal  of  material  for  "Notes  from  the  Field"  appear 
in  the  Magazine  for  June  1942,  page  420. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE  CAMPAIGNS 
Granite  Stake 
(Salt  Lake  City,  Utah) 
pEARL  H.  CROCKETi;  Granite 
Stake  Magazine  representative, 
submitted  the  following  report: 
'The  Lion  House  Social  Center  was 
the  scene  of  a  picturesque  luncheon 
given  for  the  ward  Magazine  repre- 
sentatives, ward  presidents  and  ward 
membership  coordinators  by  the 
Granite  Stake  Relief  Society,  on  Sep- 
tember 16,  1941.  Because  Magazine 
and  membership  are  so  closely  re- 
lated to  each  other  and  the  success 
of  each  affects  the  other,  we  felt  the 
need  for  bringing  the  Magazine  rep- 
resentatives and  coordinators  to- 
gether. A  bowl  of  varicolored  flow- 
ers centered  the  table,  and  at  each 
plate  there  was  a  scroll  of  paper,  held 
in  place  by  a  flower  and  ribbon. 
''The  purpose  of  the  fourth  'an- 
nual get-together  luncheon'  was  to 
inject  each  one  present  with  a  dose 
of  'pep,'  making  them  immune  to 
discouragement,  disappointment, 
and  doubt,  preparatory  to  the  open- 
ing of  our  Magazine  drive  which  was 
to  take  place  during  the  month  of 
October. 
"Our  special  guest  for  the  day  was 
General  President  Amy  Bro^fh  Ly- 
man, who  willingly  gave  us  of  her 
fund  of  knowledge  and  experience 
pertaining    to    the    Magazine.    We 
were  privileged  to  give  our  ward 
workers  the  benefit  of  her  inspira- 
tion. 
"During  the  course  of  the  after- 
noon, the  twenty  scrolls  marking 
the  places  were  untied,  and  each 
guest  found  typewritten  thereon  a 
pertinent  fact,  gathered  by  Coun- 
selor Vauna  S.  Jacobsen,  pertaining 
to  the  Magazine,  several  of  which 
are  here  quoted: 
1 .  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  is  printed 
with  clear,  legible  type  on  paper  that  must 
be  ordered  one  year  in  advance.  This  is  of 
special  benefit  to  older  women, 
2.  There  is  a  minimum  of  advertising 
in  the  Magazine,  and  none  running  through 
the  contents.  All  advertising  is  either  at 
the  front  or  the  back.  In  each  issue  there 
are  74  pages  of  good  reading  material. 
3.  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  is  an 
excellent  outlet  for  the  literary  talent  of 
our  Latter-day  Saint  women.  It  attracts 
many  of  our  best  creative  writers  in  the 
fields  of  prose,  poetry,  and  fiction. 
4.  Timely  articles  on  current  problems 
are  a  special  feature  of  the  Magazine, 
5.  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  is  dis- 
tributed throughout  the  United  States,  in- 
cluding the  territories  of  Alaska  and  Ha- 
waii, and  in  Canada,  Australia,  Africa, 
South  America,  Mexico,  Canal  Zone,  most 
European  countries  (prior  to  the  war), 
India,  China,  the  islands  of  the  sea,  and 
Syria, 
6.  The  Magazine  is  preserved  in  the  Li- 
brary of  Congress,  and  many  other  leading 
libraries  of  the  nation, 
7.  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  was  pre- 
ceded throughout  the  year   1914  by  the 
Page  563

564 
RELIEF  SOCjETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1942 
Relief  Society  Bulletin,  a  modest  monthly 
periodical  of  16  pages,  the  major  portion 
of  which  was  devoted  to  lesson  material. 
8.  In  January  1915,  the  Bulletin  was 
enlarged  to  contain  articles,  stories,  and 
poems  of  general  interest  and  was  issued 
under'  the  new  title.  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine. 
9.  The  Magazine  is  of  convenient  size, 
easy  to  carry  and  to  hold. 
10.  The  circulation  of  The  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine  is  over  55,000  and  it  is  in- 
creasing each  month. 
11.  The  pubhshing  of  the  Magazine  is 
a  non-profit  enterprise.  The  selling  price 
of  $1.00  is  used  to  benefit  the  subscriber, 
and  has  been  maintained  since  establish- 
ment of  the  Magazine  despite  greatly  in- 
creased paper  and  labor  charges. 
"All  of  the  facts  read  that  day 
were  afterwards  furnished  in  com- 
piled form  to  each  of  the  wards,  and 
helped  to  equip  them  to  go  forward 
in  their  respective  wards  to  accom- 
plish their  goal  of  obtaining  subscrip- 
tions to  equal  the  enrollment." 
Much  credit  for  the  consistent  suc- 
cess of  the  Magazine  campaign  year 
after  year  in  this  stake  is  due  the  stake 
and  ward  officers,  headed  by  Agnes 
M.  Bolto,  stake  president,  who  fully 
support  and  cooperate  with  their 
faithful  and  energetic  Magazine  rep- 
resentatives. 
South  Los  Angeles  Stake 
(Huntington  Park,  California) 
DOSINE  BAUER,  Magazine  rep- 
resentative of  the  South  Los  An- 
geles Stake,  reports  that  the  annual 
Magazine  promotion  campaign  was 
held  in  this  stake  during  the  month 
of  June.  Preparations  for  this  cam- 
paign were  made  at  a  preliminary 
meeting  and  luncheon  in  May,  at-