PRIMARY PARTY.

	A pic-nic party was given to the Primary
Association, of Santaquin, May 10th, 1879;
according to the arrangement of the com-
mittee, the children all assembled at the
schoolhouse at 12 o'clock m., where they
partook of a pic-nic dinner, provided by the
parents of the children; Bishop Halladay
asked the blessing on the food. Ten boys
and ten girls recited the Ten Command-
ments, in concert, in a manner which re-
flected great credit on the Association, as
well as on themselves. Bishop Halladay,
Bro. Eli Openshaw, Bro. Wilsonholm and
Sister Mascham treated the children to re-
freshments, lemonade, candy and nuts, and
a card of merit was given to each child be-
fore they were dismissed. I believe that
the children will long remember that after-


noon's enjoyment, if I am a jndge of chil-
dren's happy faces.
	I take pleasure in saying we are progress-
ing well; we were kindly assisted in our
preparations by Bro. J. C. Stickney, Bro.
Marion Ewell and Bro. Nishonger, the
whole being presided over by President
Fanny Ewell, with her Counselors, Mrs.
Annie Swinson and Mrs. E. Carter, with
Superintendent Mrs. E. J. Stickney. Wish-
ing you success in your very valuable paper,
we beg to remain yours in the New and
Everlasting Covenant.
		FANNY EWELL, President.
		SYRENA HALLADAY, Secretary.
		E. CARTER, Ass't. Secretary.


THE JUNE uumber of the NATIONAL
CITIZEN and BALLOT BOX, contains a con-
densed yet perfect report of the Convention
at St. Louis May the 7th, 8th and 9th.
Copies can be obtained, five cents each by
sending to Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, Edi-
tor, Syracuse, New York. This paper is the
organ of the Woman's Suffrage Association,
and advocates the cause of all women of
whatever color or creed. Each number is
freighted over with good words and good
news for women who are working for the
suffrage.
	We publish in this number Mrs. Stan-
ton's letter from the, June number of the
N. C. &B & B. It contains many good arti-
cles finely written, aud gives its readers a
correct idea of what women are doing to
elevate the sex in all parts of the world.


