	EXCURSION FOR THE OLD FOLKS.

	For several years it has been the custom to get
up an excursion annually for the old people of
this city and vicinity. Brother C. R. Savage was
the first man to inaugurate this movement,
sanctioned by Bishop Edward Hunter and El-
der George Goddard, and so it has come to be a
settled affair that the old folks have an “out”
every summer. This year, Bishop Edward
Hunter, Brothers George Goddard, C. R. Sav-
age, Wm. Eddington, Wm. Naylor, Wm. Bind-
er and John Kirkman were the untiring and
indefatigable committee of arrangements.
Everything seemed to be managed so system-
atically that there was no confusion compara-
tively in loading the eleven cars and caboose
almost exclusively with elderly people. The
morning was a delightful one—Tuesday, June
24th, and all the pleasure seekers, old and mid-
dle-aged, seemed in gala spirits.
	The cars left the depot at half-past 7, and as
the train sped along, the country looked posi-
tively charming, in the glory and beauty of the
regal robe of summer. The sunshine fell in a
beautiful shower of golden light on mountain,
valley and streams of water, and there was not
even a cloud to mar the beauty of the azure
sky. The company were greeted at the differ-
ent stations by the way, and Bishop Hunter
was presented, at one place, with a beautiful
bouquet, by a party of little girls.
	Arriving at American Fork, Bishop Harring-
ton, with about a hundred teams, was at the
station to convey the people to Bennie Brown's
grove, which had been prepared for the “old
folks' party.” The American Fork brass band,
led by Bro. William Grant, saluted the party
with the tune, “I'm Ninety-five, I'm Ninety-
five.” The stars and stripes were streaming
from the citizens' dwellings and ornamented
marshals of the day and the horses.
	An arch, formed of evergreens, was erected
on the road leading to the grove, over which a
banner was gracefully thrown, painted with
the inscription, “We welcome You,” the
Sunday School children in line on each side of
the road near it, greeting the party with songs
and shouts of welcome.
	The grove was a very large one, [-]nd had been
nicely prepared by the young gentlemen and
ladies of the Mutual Improvement Association
under the supervision of Bishop Wm. Paxman.
A platform had been made something like a
square bower, covered with boughs and deco-
rated with flowers and branches of evergr[-]en,
with a flag across the front. Here was a rustic
stand, table and benches for the convenience
of the committee, speakers, reporters and so on.
The first hours after arrival were devoted to
rest and refreshments; long rows of tables and
seats were arranged for picnic, and plenty of
cooking-stoves were on the ground, so that te[-]
and coffee could be served. Seventy gallons of

[Column 2]
milk were furnished for the occasion. The ex-
ercises commenced with music by the band,
then a prayer was offered by Bishop E. D.
Woolley, and a song composed expressly for
the occasion was sung by the Glee Club, music
by the string band. Elder C. W. Stayner com-
posed the words, Elder John Lewis the music.
Bishop Harrington then made a short address
of welcome, in a pleasing style.
	Bishop Hunter commenced by saying the ex-
cursion was far beyond what he had anticipat-
ed, referred to Brother Savage's efforts in a
very appreciative way, said that noble Savage
with a noble soul, he will yet be a God, noth-
ing short of it; he had been the first to suggest
those excursions, said that pleasure parties
were formed for all kinds except for the old
folks. Brother George Goddard had been un-
tiring and indefatigable in getting up these
parties and making them a success. After
some other remarks in regard to the good peo-
ple of american Fork and their energy in build-
ing up the place, he spoke of himself and his
early reminiscences, and said he remembered
the death of George Washington when a little
boy, and that it cast a gloom over the whole
country, even the children felt it. He mourn-
ed that the religious liberty his forefathers
fought for, and which many noble-minded and
liberal-hearted men had struggled to maintain,
had been denied to this people. He had
rejoiced in times past over the free-
dom and union of the United States, that Con-
stitution in which the glorious principle of
worshipping God according to the dictates of
one’s conscience was incorporated. Under this
Constitution God had raised up a people,
but he had lived to see these rights denied to
them; he had always maintained in his life
these principles of freedom. He spoke of the
future when the Saints would be able to obtain
this freedom, and extend the same to all de-
nominations. He spoke of his friends behind
the vail, in the most affectionate manner, and
exhorted the Saints to live their religion, and
blessed all present.
	Bishop George Halliday, of Santaquin, came
forward and said:
	Brothers, Sisters and Friends - I am highly
delighted to be with you to-day, and partici-
pate in your enjoyments. Although I am not
seventy years old yet, I have long since left the
scences of my boyhood and am gently descend-
ing the steep hill of life, I do not intend to oc-
cupy much of your time to-day, but feel to say
may God bless the aged and all those that in
any manner administer to their comfort or hap-
piness. I have a favor to ask from you all. It
is that no person will take exceptions or be
offended at the liberty that I may seem to take
for the few words that I have to offer. I wish
to direct them exclusively to the founder of the
feast, our Presiding Bishop, Brother Edward
Hunter.
	Bishop Hunter—Dear Brother: It is with
the highest admiration we witness your con-
tinued and unceasing efforts to do good to your
fellow men. The scene we behold here to-day
is one more that may be added to a long list of
others, wherein you have from your youth up,
both your means and your influence, en-
deavored to bless mankind by assisting with
your means those who were in distress, and
administering to the wants and comfort of the
poor and afflicted, and now endeavoring to
brighten and happify the declining days of the
aged. Be assured Brother Hunter, that while
you are endeavoring by works of faith and
labors of love, to make others happy, there are
thousands of your friends in the Territory and
elsewhere, that would be pleased to make you
feel happy also. And as a proof that my words

[Column 2]
are true, permit me, in the name of the good
Saints of Santaquin, Utah County, to offer you
this small present as a gift for your eighty-
sixth birthday, with your name age and office
engraved thereon, and beg you will accept the
same, not for its cost or material value, but as a
token of our high regard for you as a man, our
love for you as a brother and our respect and
veneration for you as the Presiding Bishop of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and may the blessings of Almighty God
be showered down upon you to strengthen
your aged body  and comfort and happify your
heart, and although your body may decline
with age, may your mind and memory con-
tinue bright, vivid and youthful, is the wish
of your many friends. Amen.
	The cane was purchased at Joslyn & Park's
in this city, and was elegantly engraved. "Pre-
sented to Presiding Bishop E. Hunter, on his 
36th birthday, June 22d, 1879, by the Saints of
Santaquin."
	Bro. Goddard said: "All who feel like wish
ing Bishop Hunter many happy returns of the
day, say Amen. Brass band music. Song by
thirty little girls, dressed in white, “Greeting
Glee.” Smith's string band accompanied Fos-
ter's Glee Club in singing, “Oh, how brightly
breaks the morning.” The children then pre-
sented bouquets to Bishop Hunter, President D.
H. Wells, Sister E. R. Snow,and several of the
oldest ladies and gentlemen present. Brother
C. W. Stayner received a bouquet for compos-
ing the song for the old folks.
	President Wells made some remarks, in which
he exhorted the people not to lose their faith
and let the devil cheat them out of their salva-
tion, after a life of toil. God blesses all who are
true and faithful to their covenants. May God
bless you, one and all, Bishop Hunter, Bishop
Harrington and President Smoot. It is said,
let us have old men for counsel and young men
for war, but let us seek to have the principles
of freedom inculcated in our lives. Said his
grandfather had been a soldier in the Revolu-
tion, but he lived long enough to see American
citizens denied the liberty of worshipping God
according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences. He predicted that the time would
come when it would be an honor to be a “Mor-
mon.”
	Brother Goddard then called for the oldest
people present to come forward. The following
persons responded Wm. Wilding and Vienna
Jacques of this city, aged respectively 96 and
92, Ann Lee, of Provo, 90; Sarah Simons, 80;
Abagail Leonard, 84; Berrill Covington, Ogden,
75: John Manwill, Payson, 88; Rufus Abbott,
Payson, 95. Mary Shelley, 83 years old, had
worked in the mines of Scotland 40 years, and
crossed the plains with a handcart, received as
a gift a portrait of President John Taylor. The
oldest lady and oldest gentleman were present-
ed with an order for a handsome arm-chair.
Other prizes were given to James Shields, Patsy
Ann De Berry, Thomas Morris, Elizabeth Wil-
liams, John Manwill, the last named sang a
song. The Y. M. M. I. A. received as a prize,
“The Life of Brigham Young,” and the Young
Ladies of Y. L. M. I. A framed portraits of
President Taylor and Bishop Edward Hunter.
A variety of games were indulged in by
several of the old people, who manifested
considerable enthusiasm, and the win
ners received prizes. All who partici-
pated seemed delighted and a very merry
crowd watched the proceedings. The Italian
band amused the people with songs in the
language of “sweet Italia,” and discoursed mu-
sic soft and full of melody, with the guitar.
	There were quite a number of persons from
other settlements, and altogether it is thought


there were two thousand people on the grounds.
Many met with old friends whom they had not
seen for years, and probably there are many of
them who will never see each other again in
this life.
	The party left American Fork on the train
"all aboard" half-past five o'clock p. m. This
pleasant recreation for the old folks is a great
satisfaction to them, and will certainly call
down the blessing of heaven upon those who
contribute so much to the happiness of their
fellow creatures in their declining years.
	During the trip homeward, songs were sung
in each car by the Glee Club, and lemonade
and refreshments were being passed from one
car to another constantly, and everybody
enjoyed the affair to the utmost, by trying to
amuse, entertain and interest everybody else.


