IN HONOR OF BISHOP HUNTER.

	Sunday, June the 22nd, was the 86th
annniversary of the birthday of Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter. The officers of the Relief
Society of this City, wishing to express
their respect for him, and their apprecia-
tion of his magnanimous labors in the in-
terest of the poor and unfortunate, in which
capacity they also labor, in connection with
the Bishops, arranged to give him a sur-
prise party, rather in the character of a lit-
erary entertainment, on Monday, June 23rd.
	Learning afterwards that it was the 80th
anniversary of the birth-day of Dr. J. M.
Bernhisel, it was decided it should be a sur-
prise to both. The party convened in the
Seventeenth Ward assembly rooms at 2
o’clock p. m. Monday the 23rd. There
were present, besides officers of the Relief
Society, Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter
and Mrs. Suzanne Hunter, President John
Taylor and Mrs. Sophia Taylor, Elder Joseph
F. Smith and Mrs. Sarah E. Richards
Smith, Elder F. D. Richards and Mrs. Jane
S. Richards, Counselor D. H. Wells and
Mrs. Susan H. Wells, Pres. Angus M. Can-
non and Mrs. Amanda Cannon, Bishop L.
W. Hardy and Mrs. Sophia Hardy, Bishop
R. T. Burton and Mrs. Maria Burton, Elder
George Goddard and Mrs. Mary S. Goddard,
Mrs. E. A. Whitney, Mrs. Maria Carrington,
Mrs. Sarah D. Rich and Mrs. Phebe Wood-
ruff.
	The entertaiument opened by singing, "O
ye mountains high.” Prayer by Elder
Joseph F. Smith, then the choir sang "Auld
Lang Syne" which re-awakened in the
hearts of those present, recollections al-
most buried in the past. Miss E. R. Snow
then read a poem written for the occasion,
and addressed to the Bishop, which we pub-
lish on the first page.
	Elder Joseph F. Smith then made a short
speech, in which he gave expression to his
feelings in regard to the arduous labors of
the Bishop. Mrs. M. I. Horne gave an im-
promptu address and alluded to the days of
the Prophet Joseph and the priesthood and
blessings conferred upon women at that
time. Mrs. S. M. Kimball then read the
following address, composed in honor of the
veteran Bishop.
	Reverend Father:
	This assembly necessarily consists of only
a few of the many friends who appreciate
your long and useful life, which has been
devoted to God and humanity.
	Like Adam, you have been a granger, a
tiller of the soil, earning your bread by the
sweat of your brow.
	Like Abraham, you have tended the
flocks of the field; like him you have
taught righteousness and are an honored
leader among the children of promise.
	You have your probation in the dispen-
sation of the fullness of times, when God
will gather His obedient children into one
grand harmonious family, where each, un-
derstanding correct principles, will be self-
governing, and peace will reign in all the
borders. The members of this family may
enter the divine presence of the Father
and Mother God with the scales of their
mortal eyes unclasped and their percep-
tions revivified.
	Then worthy father, you will in fullness,
reap the just reward of yonr husbandry,
gather your flocks into fat pastures on your
everlasting inheritance, and give dominion
and power to the righteous of your own
house, subordinate to the eternal scepter
which through faithfulness you have re-

[Column 2]
ceived by promises as sacred as those made
to Abraham.
	Before the final adjustment of rights and
ceremonies is fully consummated, a Grand
Assembly will convene, which will be pre-
sided over by Father Adam, the Ancient
of Days.
	Among the honorable members of this
convention will be Noah, Abraham and
Joseph, the Prophet of the last days, with
many others, including Edward Hunter,
whom on this occasion we delight to honor.
	We understand that the Grand Assembly
referred to, shall be preparatory to, and fol-
lowed by the long predicted, and long an-
ticipated Marriage Supper of the Lamb.
	It is our fervent desire that all present
on this memorable occasion, may be counted
worthy to participate with you, our illus-
trious father, in the glory and happiness of
that “feast” of “feasts,” until which time,
to our much honored, Presiding Bishop in
Zion, we mutually say “The Lord be with
thee.”
	Bishop Hunter then responded to those
manifestations of respect to him; alluded
briefly to his association with the Prophet
Josoph, his pleasant intercourse with Pres.
Brigham Young and subsequently with
Pres. John Taylor. He said, what can a
man do more than to face death for his
friend, this Pres. Taylor has done. He
then referred briefly to the organization of
the Relief Society, and the great amount
of good which had resulted from these So-
cieties; and the positive and apparent re-
sults which had been known.
	Bishop L. W. Hardy, counselor to Bishop
Hunter, made a speech, in which he said
he had been intimately associated with
Bishop Hunter as his counselor for more
than tweuty years, and there had never
been an ill-feeling or an unpleasant word
between them.
	Mrs. H. T. King then read a poem writ-
ten expressly for the party, published on
the third page.
	Col. R. T. Burton then made a short but
thrilling speech, referring graphically to
the perilous days of Nauvoo. Mrs. E B. Wells
then read a poem addressed to the Bishsp,
which will be published July 15th.
	Elder George Goddard then gave this
brief sketch of Bishop Hunter’s life:
	A brief narration of facts in the history
of Edward Hunter, Presiding Bishop of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day
Saints, suggested by the 86th anniversary
of his birthday, on Sunday, June 22d, 1879.
	Edward Hunter was born in Newtown
Township, Delaware Co., Pa., on the 22d of
June, 1793, where he remained 35 years,
and then moved to Chester Co., Pa., in 1828;
after remaining there a number of years,
and though not a member of any religious
society, he entertained the highest respect
towards all professors of religion, being
taught liberal and enlightened princi-
ple when a boy by his father; he was a
farmer and stock raiser, and having leased
a piece of land for a Meeting House for 99
years, for the use and benefit of all denomina-
tional preachers, no matter what their creed;
in the course of time the Mormon Elders
came along, traveling without purse or
scrip, and as true to nature as also to his
creed, he opened his house and made them
welcome with food, clothing and money;
also the privilege of preaching in the
School House, though much opposed by the
trustees; but knowing the broad and liberal
principles upon which the lease was based—
for religious purposes—he was determined
to maintain them at all hazards.
	In November, 1840, he was baptized as a
member in the Church of Jesus Christ of

[Column 3]
Latter-Day Saints, by Elder Orson Hyde,
and the following year, 1841, he visited
Nauvoo to transact business with the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith, having formed a slight
acquaintance with him a short time before.
While there he purchased considerable
property, and in September he was or-
dained an Elder, by revelation, under the
hands of the Patriarch of the Church,
Hyrum Smith. About this time he was
commissioned by Governor Carlin as Herald
and Armor Bearer to General Joseph Smith,
which office he held to the day of Joseph’s
martyrdom. He returned to his home in
Chester Co., and in 1842 moved with his
family to Nauvoo. In 1843 he was elected
a member of the city council, which office
he held until the death of the Prophet,
June 27th, 1844. In the fall of 1844 he
was ordained a High Priest, and shortly af-
terwards a Bishop over the 5th Ward.
Here he remained until the summer of
1846, when he left and traveled to Winter
Quarters, now called Florence, near Omaha,
on the Iowa side of the Missouri River, re-
maining there through the winter until
spring. He was the first man whom Presi-
dent Brigham Young made mention of to
take charge of one of the first companies of
100 wagons, and start for the Rocky Moun-
tains and settle in this western region of
country; several companies of the same size
started on the plains that spring, from Win-
ter Quarters, and Elders P. P. Pratt and
John Taylor presided over the entire emi-
gration of that season. Bishop Hunter’s
company reached Salt Lake City, Sept. 30th,
1847, and he was appointed in October,
1849, to return to Nauvoo, having with him
between $5,000 and $6,000, being raised on
purpose to emigrate the poor from that place.
In this undertaking he was greatly blest
and prospered, not only in the purchase of
cattle, etc., for the general outfit, but
throughout the entire enterprise, giving
great satisfaction to those who had called
upon him to undertake it. His company
left the Missouri River in July, and reached
this City in October, 1850. Newel K.
Whitney, who had been Presiding Bishop
of the Church for many years, died on the
23d of Sept., 1850, and at the following
April Conference, 1851, Edward Hunter
was appointed, by unanimous vote, as his
successor, and one year from that date, at
the April Conference, he was ordained and
set apart as the Presiding Bishop of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
by Elders H. C. Kimball aud Willard Rich-
ards, which office he still holds, making a
period of twenty-eight years last April;
and during that time he has been present
at and presided over 379 meetings of the
Bishopric in this city.
	He still retains much mental and physical
vigor, enjoying excellent health, takes great
comfort in the use of the pen, and writes a
great deal; his writing is known through-
out the Territory, and is very difficult to
imitate. He possesses many eccentricities,
yet there is no man in the whole communi-
ty of Latter-day Saints who stands higher
in their confidence and esteem than Bishop
Edward Hunter, and there is but one uni-
versal feeling and wish entertained towards
him on this the 86th year of his age, viz.:
May he live as long as he can be useful to
others and happy in himself.

	Sister Mercy R. Thompson then made a
few remarks and related some incidents of
the days of Nauvoo and her first acquaint-
ance with Bishop Hunter. Elder F. D.
Richards spoke quite pathetically of the
friends behind the vail, and said it would
not be long ere the Saints would have Jo-


[Column 1]
seph, Hyrum, Willard, Brigham, Heber and
others among them again.
	The choir then sang the anthem "Jerusa-
lem."
	Sister E. R. Snow said she regretted that
there had been a misunderstanding about
its being a mutual surprise to both Bishop
Hunter and Dr. Bernhisel; said it was ow-
ing to this that the honors had not been
equally divided.
	Pres. A. M. Cannon made some interest-
ing remarks upon Bishop Hunter's life;
spoke of his adapting himself to the people,
mingling with the poor and thus better un-
derstanding their wants and needs, and
knowing how to approach them; said when
quite young he had the opportunity of
speaking in the Bishop's native town, and
heard his old neighbors and friends speak
of his sacrifices (as they pleased to call
them) in leaving there to come west among
the "Mormons."
	Pres. Wells said this people were a great
deal more thought of and had more to be proud
of than if they had not been "Mormons;"
said Bishop Hunter was ten times the man he
would have been if he had not joined the
Church, and if he had not lived in the days
of Joseph; the Saints should be glad they
have the opportunity of proving their in-
tegrity before high heaven; when a man
has done good deeds he'll be rewarded for
it. It is the fate of the Latter-day Saints to
make some warm friends and a great many
bitter-enemies, but he that endures faithful
to the end will obtain the everlasting in-
heritance and crown of glory; said we came
into this existence to pass the ordeals and
prove whether we will be true to our integ-
rity; until we have proved ourselves the
Lord cannot bestow upon his people the
kingdoms of this world. Jesus had to pass
the ordeals, and prove himself worthy, be-
fore he could have the promise he should
be made ruler. He inquired what is a man
good for who betrays his trust?
	Pres. Taylor expressed his pleasure in
meeting with the sisters to commemorate
the birthday of Bishop Hunter and of Dr.
Bernhisel; he said we expect to live togeth-
er in time and in eternity, and all will be
well with the faithful, and as for the ene-
mies of the Saints, why should we care for
them? We intend to go on doing good, and
in the name of Israel's God will triumph:
the brethren in their place, and the sisters
in their places, and we shall have the bless-
ing of the Lord upon us. Amen.
	Bishop Hunter said the sisters would
have him exalted on the top of the topmost
throne, but he was not worthy half what
had been said of him; the sisters had done
a great deal of good through the Relief So-
ciety, and he appreciated their labors, espe-
cially among the poor and distressed, but
he was not half as good as they represented
him. 
	The choir sang "Joy to the world, the
Lord will come."
	Benediction by President Taylor.
	The party then repaired to the lower hall,
where tables were spread with a delicious
cold dinner, which was furnished by the
ladies of the party. The people were seat-
ed and Pres. Taylor pronounced the bless-
ing. During dinner the children of the
Primary Association, under the direction of
Sister Mary Jane Thompson, sang very
sweetly, with their clear, fresh young voi-
ces, which added greatly to the enjoyment.
Sister Thompson brought two very little or-
phan children forward to the head of the
table, where President Taylor and Bishop
Hunter were seated, and they sang very
nicely, "Jesus loves me." After the dinner

[Column 2]
was over Bishop Hunter was presented
with an Autograph Album, with his name
upon it in gold letters, and inside inscribed,
"Bishop Edward Hunter, Presiding Bishop
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. This Album was presented on the
Eighty-sixth Anniversary of his Birthday,
at a Surprise Party given in his honor, in
the Seventeenth Ward Assembly Rooms, by
the Officers of the Relief Society of Salt
Lake City." This closed the programme.
	The whole affair was kept a profound
secret from Bishop Hunter, until the guests
had assembled to do him honor, then two
of the committee went to his house and in-
vited him to come; he refused, they per-
sisted, urged, coaxed, entreated, the Bishop
was annoyed, vexed, perplexed, obstinate,
making all manner of excuses, but at last
was persuaded, much against his will, to go
with them, he not knowing what was in
store for him.
	The party was a complete success, and
the sisters deserve great credit for the nice
manner in which all the arrangements were
conducted. Pres. E. R. Snow presided.
Sister Mercy R. Thompson was the first
mover in the affair, bnt she met with the
most enthusiastic co-operation from the
sisters, one and all. In conclusion we say, God
bless the Bishop of Bishops, the Friend of
the Faithful, the Father of the Poor; and
may his remaining days on earth be spent
in the same noble and useful manner as his
past life has been, giving wise counsel, ad-
monishing, instructing, blessing, cheering
and administering to all who need his care
and admonition, and when he shall pass
away, may it be "like one who wraps the
drapery of his couch about him and lies
down to pleasant dreams," and enter into
the world of Paradise, there to be reunited
with his beloved Ann, the wife of his youth,
the companion of his travels, and meet and
clasp hands with Joseph, Hyrum, Bishop
Whitney, and all the grand and illustrious
men and women with whom he associated
here.


