THE GIRLS OF TO-DAY.

	The girls to whom these words are ad-
dressed, belong distinctly to this period in
the world's progress - girls who believe
that, as consumers of the results of toil, it
is their duty to contribute, by their works,
to the general fund; and who further be-
lieve that the amount of goods which they
are entitled to appropriate to themselves, is
only dependent upon their ability to hon-
estly procure such goods.
 A generation ago, girls like these had
only an existence as individuals.--' Scat-
tered here and there over the world there
have been girls' who shook themselves free
from the shackles of custom and precedent,
and have set boldly out to think their own
thoughts, and live their own lives, making
possible the way for less hardy followers;
but in social economy no allowance was
made for their existence. They were not
recognized  a class, nor looked upon with
favor as individuals. They gained much,
but they paid high rates for it.
 It was not thought indelicate or unfemi-
nine for her to marry a man who was per-
sonally repulsive to her, if he could support
her; or she might live in beggarly depen-
dence upon friends who could little afford
such expense; but a profession, was not to
be thought of a by a modest, properly in-
clined girl. A cultivated idiocy was held
to- be very sweet and Interesting; but it
was a hazardous thing for her to lay herself
llablo to the charge of "strong-mindedness."
	The scene is changed. The girl of to-day
looks out Upon a far-different field. Al-
ready the barriers of tough old ignorance
and conservatism have given way where
they seemed almost impervious; and the
time is close at hand when she may go
where she will, entering the lists “without
fear and without favor."
	In our country the advance of woman's
interests, has been marvellously rapid in
the last few years. During the civil war
the work that woman did, with head and
hands, won her a new place in the esteem
of the nation. Later, in the years of com-
mereial disaster and distress that followed
close upon the era of inflation and folly and
extravagance, she has developed a fortitude
and skill, a fulness of resource and strength
of character that have gained to her sex,
riches that shall never pass away.  It is
doubtful if, under other conditions, the wo-
man’s cause could have made such progress.
It was when those sad reverses came that
caused so many women to step out from
homes of luxury and refinement and look
about in the world—-the world they never
fairly saw before - for the means of earn-
ing sustenance for themselves, that the wo-
men of our land became known unto each
other, that the strong tendrils of love and
sympathy and fellowship were thrown out
that gathered up and knit together in
closer kinship that band of women that
stand to-day in the front ranks of arts and
sciences and industries of our country. It
is pretty safe to conclude that there never
will be such a collapse in the civilization of
the world as will relegate woman back into
the helpless dependency of the past. On
the contrary, it is more and more apparent
that idleness is not going to be considered
any more interesting or respectable in a wo-
man than in a man. A woman "without
visible means of support,” will be looked
upon askance by-and-by. So the girls wll
haye to keep their wits about them, or they
will be left in the lurch. Youth is the best
time for learning, and moreover, she who
waits for middle-life before taking up its re-
sponsibilities and possibilities, will have so
much to unlearn that her young rivals will
outstrip her.
	Having chosen & trade or profession, you
should leave far behind you all those petty
and foolish artificialities which prevent
men and women from having a fair, whole-
some business acquaintance with each
other. Never let considerations of sex en-
ter into your business relations with a man;
the only account he will make of it will be
to impose upon you it he can—a good man
will not consider it at all. If you meet
him with finesse, he will repay you with
gallantry, and drive a sharp bargain with
you after all. First inform yourself in the
promises, and then remember that common
sense and, honesty will yield the main
chance. Circumvention will be both un-
dignified and unprofitable. It was some
grim wit that perpetrated that venerable
humbug about feminine tact. For good,
substantial, opaque manoeuvering, there is
nothing like masculine acumen.
	Again, don't set out with any thought of
martyrdom. What the world now wants is
successful women - not martyrs. If you
can make for yourself a good business, and
take care of yourself, and do it well, you
will, by your example, contribute a good
gift to the common cause.
