	HOME AFFAIRS.  

	RETURNED HOME—Mr. Don Carlos and Mr.
Feramorz L. Young, sons of the late President
Brigham Young, arrived home on Monday
evening, June 24, and Mr. W. G. Sharp, son of
Bishop John Sharp, arrived Thursday evening,
June 26, all in excellent health and spirits.
These young men graduated a few weeks since
at the Van Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, at
Troy, New York. We welcome them back,
and trust, with the education they have re-
ceived, and the fine natural abilities they pos-
sess, they may make life a complete success.
	ON SATURDAY and Sunday, June 14 and 15,
we attended the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Tooele Stake, held at Grants-
vllle. Mrs. M. A. Hunter, President of the
R.S. of Tooele County, presiding. Sisters and
brethren too from the various settlements were
present. President F. M. Lyman, Bishop Tut-
tle of Tooele, and others from the different
precincts favored the sisters with their pres-
ence. Saturday afternoon the children of
Grantsville were organized into a Primary
Association. The instructions given at this
Conference by President Lyman, were very
encouraging to the sisters in that vicinity.
Miss E. R. Snow was also eloquent and earnest
in addressing the meetings, Mrs B. W. Smith
and other sisters contributed towards making
the conference an interesting one.
	WE ARE happy to announce the marriage of
our young relative, Mr. Junius F. Wells (Presi-
dent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement
Associations,) to Miss Lena Fobes, of this city.
The marriage ceremony was performed by Pre-
sident D. H. Wells, father of the bridegroom,
in the Endowment House, Monday, June 16th,
at 5 o’clock p.m. A reception was given in the
evening at his father’s residence in the 12th
Ward, at which time were assembled all his
"aunt's, sisters and cousins," with a host of
other friends, who offered their fervent congra-
tulations. The happy pair were the recipients
alao of many useful and elegant presents.
	ON MONDAY, June 23d, another very brilliant
wedding was celebrated in this city. The
bride was Miss Jane Jennings, daughter of
Hon. Wm. Jennings, the bridegroom Mr. Jas.
A. Eldredge, son of Hon. Horace S. Eldredge.
President Taylor performed the ceremony, at
4 o’clock p.m., in the Endowment House. The
reception in honor of Miss Janie’s marriage, at
Devereux House, in the evening, was really
the most magnific[-]nt affair of the kind ever
celebrated in this city. To attempt a descrip-
tion of the elegance or enjoyment in one para-
graph is simply impossible. We offer our most
sincere and fervent congratulations to these
now voyagers on the matrimonial sea of life,

