	DEAR FRIEND:

	I reached the St. Louis Convention at the
last moment, and was sorry to find that you
and Olympia Brown had just gone. How-
ever I was in time to make a short speech,
preside for two hours, and witness one of
the most touching incidents that ever oc-
curred on our platform.
	The ladies of the convention, delegates
from many different states, presented our
dear friend, Susan B. Anthony two beauti-
ful baskets of flowers, in the presence of
the immense audience which had gathered
through all the long sessions for three days.
	Mrs. May W. Thompson of Indianapolis,
in presenting the flowers, referred in the
most happy way, to Miss Anthony's unsel-
fish and untiring devotion to all the unpop-
ular reforms, through long years of pitiless
persecution and ridicule, and thanked her
in behalf of the young womanhood of the
nation, that their path had been made
smoother by her brave life. Our Susan
was so overcome with the delicate compli-
ments offered her, and the fragrant flowers
at her feet, that for a moment she could find
no words to to express her appreciation of
the unexpected acknowledgement of what
all American women do, indeed, owe her.
	As she stood before that hushed audience,
her silence was more eloquent than words,
for her emotion was shared by all. With
an effort she at last said: "Friends, I have
no words to express my gratitude for this
marked attention. I have so long been the
target for the criticism and ridicule of our
cause, I am so unused to praise and com-
pliment, that I stand before you surprised
and disarmed. If any one had come on
this platform and abused all womankind,
called me hard names, ridiculed onr argu-
ments or denied the justice of our de-
mands, I should with readiness and confi-
dence have rushed to the defense; but my
Quaker education unfits me to make any
appropriate reply for this offering of elo-
quent words and flowers, and I shall not
attempt it."
	Being advertised as the speaker of the

[Column 2]
evening, she at once began her address, and
as that grand woman stood there and
made an argument worthy a Senator of the
United States, I recalled the infinite pa-
tience with which, for upwards of thirty
years, she had labored for educational re-
forms, temperance, anti-slavery and woman
suffrage, ridiculed by the press, arrested,
tried and fined for exercising an Ameri-
can citizen's right to vote; misrepresented
and ignored by women themselves, whose
rights she has struggled to secure, with an
earnestness and faithfulness worthy the
martyrs in the early days of the Christian
Church, I said to myself, verily the world
now as ever crucifies its saviors!
	Thanks to the untiring industry of Mrs.
Minor and Miss Couzins the convention was
in every way a success, morally, financially,
in crowded audiences, and in the fair, re-
spectful and complimentary tone of the
press. Looking over the proceedings and
resolutions, the thought struck me that the
National Suffrage Association is the only or-
ganization that has steadily maintained the
doctrine of Federal power, against state
rights.
	The great truths set forth in the 14th and
and 15th amendments, of the United States
supremacy, so clearly seen by us, seem to
be vague and dim to our leading statesmen
and judges, if we may judge by their
speeches and decisions. Your superb speech
on state rights, should be published in tract
form and scattered over this entire nation.
How can we ever have a homogeneous gov-
ernment solong as great universal principles
are bounded by state lines. I am home-
ward bound at last, after eight months of
continual speaking, having filled one hun-
dred and fifty engagements. The first of
June will find me once more on the blue
hills of Jersey. The prairies are beautiful
in their fresh spring grass and flowers, but
the valleys of the Mohawk and Hudson are
more to my taste. Perhaps it is well for
"the young man to go west," and grow up
with the country, but for women on the
shady side of sixty, whose eyes have al-
ways dwelt on rocks, trees, mountains hills
and rivers, the East must ever be more con-
genial.			As ever yours,
