[COLUMN 3]
	THE RELIEF Society quarterly conference of
this stake of Zion, was held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly rooms, J[-]ne the 20th and 21st.,
beginning at 10 o’clock a. m. June 20th Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding. The first part of the
morning was occupied with reports from the
various branches of the Belief Society in this
county.  These reports represented each of
these organizations in good condition. Mrs.
Horne made a few brief remarks and Miss. E.
R. Snow then addressed the conference. 
	Afternoon session. The presidents of the
different societies in wards and settlements
each made a verbal report, all, of which were
very satisfactory. When they had finished
Miss E. R. Snow made a few appropriate re-
marks and the conference adjourned until next
Saturday. Mrs. Horne announced that the
next morning would be occupied by the Young
Ladies Association. 
	Saturday morning. The Young Ladies Con-
ference. Mrs. Louie Felt presiding in, absence
of the President Mrs. Mary Freeze. The re-
ports of the several Y. L. M. I. A. of the coun-
ty were read, and then each president made a
verbal report. Mrs. Louie Felt occupied a lit-
tle time also. Miss E. R. Snow, and then El-
der W. W. Taylor, by invitation, made a few
remarks. He explained the order of filling out
the forms for reports, and showed the impor-
tance of practicing habits of order in financial 
matters, which would, if necessary, enable the
sisters to assist their husbands in keeping their
accounts, for there was no one in whom he
would have more confidence in such matters
than his wifə; and if habits of order were
taught the young, by example as well as pre-
cept, a foundation would be laid in them for
true greatness. He showed the great import
ance of striving to benefit those surrounding
us with the blessings enjoyed by the faithful,
thus creating an influence in behalf of righte-
ousness in the midst of the Saints, that the
children of the Saints might not be led astray.
	Saturday afternoon. Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding, was devoted principally to reports from
Primary Associations.  Miss. Maggie Freeze
read the written reports, after which Presidents
of Primaries in several wards reported verbally.
Mrs. M. T. Horne made some remarks upon the
discipline and management of children, the
necessity of teaching them faith and a knowl-
edge of principle. Mrs. Zina D. Young, M[-]s.
S. M. Kimball, Miss E; R. Snow all spoke
upon the necessity of training the children in
the nurture and admonition of the Lord,
and expressed their pleasure in these organiza-
tions of the little children, and their belief
that through this spiritual training all would
come to a knowledge of the Lord from the
least unto the greatest. Pres. E. R. Snow
said that perhaps at the general meeting two
weeks from that day, they might organize the
P[--]mary Association in a stake capacity, and
wanted a full attendance of the sisters on that
occasion. Conference adjourned until Sept.
next 26th and 27th.


THE BOSTON "Woman’s Journal" May 31,
contains another of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe's
attractive letters written from abroad. It
is dated Paris, May 10. Mrs. Howe's let-
ters are charming, and would make a valu-
able book. There are many books of travel
that are wanting in that peculiar quality
that would make them really useful and
inspiring. Such books are dry and unen-
tertaining, because of the style in which
they are written. Mrs. Howe's letters from
abroad would, we believe, find ready sale,
not only on account of their real merit, but
her intelligent and happy manner of de-
scription of places and people, also her ad-
mirable power of expressing what she sees
and feels.


