[COLUMN 2]
and trust the breezes may be favorable, and
should storms arise that the winds and waves
may at least be propitious.
	ON FRIDAY morning a party of ladies and
gentlemen left this city to be present at the
closing exercises of the B. Y. Academy at
Provo. Bishop O. F. Whitney, Professors J.
Toronto and J. Kingsbury of the Deseret Uni-
versity, James Dwyer, Esq., Miss Ada Dwyer,
Miss Keetle Heywood, and Miss Annie Wells,
were of the party. We regret we have not
space to give some account of the manner in
which the academy is conducted, under the
superior management of Prof. Carl G. Maeser,
with some gentlemen and ladies as assistants
in different departments. This school is very
highly recommended by all who have attended
and by all who have taken pains to examine
into the peculiar methods of teaching adopted
in the institution. 
	On Saturday morning a party of about fifty
of the teachers and students, including the
visitors from Salt Lake, started up Provo
Cañon, well supplied with pic-nic. From one
or two who participated in the trip we learn
that it was really most delightful, scenery
grand, beautiful flowers and shrubbery, clear
streams of water sparkling and rippling through
the valleys, and the waterfall exceeded in its
beauty the idea they had formed. They had a
feast of good things to eat, and a literary en-
tertainment of songs, speeches, recitations,
jokes and brilliant conversation. The visitors
from this city were extremely well pleased
with their visit to Provo and the people who
so agreeably entertained them.
	SINCE JUNE 15th number of the EXPONENT
was issued, our esteemed friend and Brother
Elder George Reynolds, has been committed
to prison in Lincoln, Nebraska. We had not
believed he would be imprisoned on account of
his being a test case brought forward purposely 
to decide a vexed question. Elder Reynolds,
implicitly believing as most of the Latter-day
Saints did, that the religious liberty granted
by the Constitution of the United States would
be his safeguard. We have no words to express
our feelings on this subject, having been im-
bued with the idea from childhood that in
America there was freedom and religious liber-
ty for all, of whatever color creed. We know
the Apostles and Elders were imprisoned for
their religion in Christ’s day, but that was not
under a free government. They rejoiced that
they were worthy to suffer. And so does our
good brother. He writes that his greatest dis-
appointment is in not being allowed pencil
and paper to scribble down his thoughts. 
	He says in a letter to his family, "my health
is good, I feel quite happy. * * *
God bless and comfort you all, be assured there
are many worse places than in prison for con-
science sake. It cannot take away the peace
which reigns in my heart. Repin[-] not, but
pray continually for yourselves and for me. Bro.
Reynolds speaks highly of the kindness of the of-
fficers who attended him East, and sends greet-
ing to all his old friends: those who desire.to
write to him: address Georgo Reynolds, Box C,
Lincoln, Nebraska. We hope we shall shortly
have some better news to publish on this sub-
ject, at any rate, we hope for his return to
Utah. We have heard that the Anti-Polygamy
ladies of this city have asked President Hayes
not to grant the pardon asked for Brother 
Reynold’s, but let him serve in the
penitenriary and that be not remanded to
the Utah penitentiary. We had understood
that the ladies of this Society had no wish to
have past offences punished, but to prevent any
action of this kind in the future. God forgive
them, they know not what they do, for what
they sow that also they must reap.

