RESOLUTION OF RESPECT.

	To the Officers of the Relief Society,
Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City.
	The resignation of Sisters Priscilla Staines,
President of the Ladies' Relief Society of
the Twelfth Ward, Salt Lake City; Amanda
Smith and Emily P. Young, her Counselors;
Harriet Hardy, Secretary; and Sophia
Hardy, Treasurer, Officers of said Society,
having been tendered to Bishop Alexander
C. Pyper and his Counselors, John Druce
and Leonard G. Hardy, and accepted by
them, on account of ill health and infirm-
aties;
	Acting for a number of years past, with
an eye single to the special interest of the
poor and afflicted of the Ward, devoting
much of their time and means, as well as
the offerings of the Saints, in visiting and
administering to their necessities and re-
lieving their wants in their greatest times
of destitution; and becoming ANGELS OF
MERCY in assisting and consoling those
who lay sick and bowed down with sorrow
and affliction; and feeling no sacrifice too
great in holding out their generous hands
and exercising a godlike faith for these
benevolent objects,
	Therefore, the following action was taken
by a congregation of the Saints, assembled
in the Twelfth Ward School House, on Sun-
day Evening, the 15th day of June, 1879;
and,
	It was motioned by Bishop A. C. Pyper,
seconded by Counselor John Druce, and


unanimously carried by the assembled con-
gregation of the Ward:—That we tender
our thanks to our esteemed Sisters, the
President, her Counselors, the Secretary
and Treasurer; officers of the Ladies' Relief
Society of the Twelfth Ward; for their very
efficient, prompt and satisfactory services
rendered, in the performance of their ar-
duous duties and the sacred trusts com-
mitted unto them; and while regretting
their resignation and being deprived of
their valuable aid, to which a considerable
portion of their lives have been devoted,
we trust that they will at all times feel in
their future career, that their untiring labors
in the past, in relieving the necessities of
the poor and destitute of the Ward, will
live in the memories of those who are the
subjects of the munificence of the Saints, as
well as of themselves, to call down the bless-
ings of their Heavenly Father upon them.
Also, that a copy of this motion be furnished
to each of the retiring officers of the Ladies'
Relief Society, as a testimonial of these our
sentiments.
	Given under my hand this 17th day of
June, A. D. 1879.
		ROBERT CAMPBELL, Secretary,
On behalf of the 12th Ward, Salt Lake City.


