THE FAIR.

	As we have hitherto briefly announced,
it is the intention of the Directors of the
D. A. & M. Society to hold another Fair
about next October in this city. The last
Fair was a decided success. It is intended
to make the coming one even more attrac-
tive. This can only be done by increased
exertion on the part of all those directly or
indirectly interested in the growth and de-
velopment of our thriving and promising
Utah. Among the list of premiums, which
will be duly published, is a long one desig-
nated "Ladies' work." This department
at the last Fair was a very interesting one,
and elicited great praise from the visitors.
In the coming exhibition the ladies of Utah,
without regard to creed or color, are ear-
nestly entreated to lend their ever ready
aid to make it attractive. The premiums
are so arranged that exhibitors will obtain
awards without being obliged to become
members of the Society, which has hitherto
cost $2.00. The awards will be numerous,
and as high as hitherto, and a small per
cent. only will be charged to successful
competitors. The Directors earnestly in-
vite the co-operation of the Relief Societies
and Young Ladies' Associations. They
promise more room and better general con-
ditions to the ladies' department than at
the last exposition. We will suggest tnat
it is not too early to commence preparations
for this labor, which we hope will be taken
hold of by the ladies with a vim and relish
inspired by the importance of the pleasing
task. Don't delay the commencement. In
due time the EXPONENT will have the list
for publication.
						A. M. MUSSER.
	Salt Lake City, June, 1879.


MRS. HILL, sister of W. W. Corcoran,
Esq., founder of the famous Gallery of Art in
Washington, died a few days ago. Mr.
Corcoran is widely known as a man of
great benevolence. When we were in Wash-
ington last winter we visited the Louise
Home, an institution founded by him for
educated and refined widows and ladies re-
duced to poverty in their declining years.
It was founded by request of his daughter
and bears her name.


