[Vol55 | May | Magazine Page 338 | PDF Page 355]

--- PAGE 338 (PDF page 355) ---
EDITORIAL

Volume 55    May 1968    Number 5

■ Belle S. Spafford, President
■ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
■ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
■ Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer

The Future of Relief Society

■ The annual report for Relief Society published in the April issue of the Magazine reveals, through impressive figures, the present strength of the Society—its great size, its wide geographic scope, its vast humanitarian services, the extent of its educational activities, the volume of its leadership.

As we ponder the growth, the influence, and the power of Relief Society today, we may marvel at what has been achieved in a period of a little more than one and one quarter centuries. It is but natural that we should ask, "What will it be in another hundred years? Can its rate of growth be maintained? Can it extend itself into ever-widening areas of service? Can it continue to function on an ever-enlarging scale in harmony with its original purposes and procedures?" It is but natural for us to ask, "Can the women of the Church keep pace with the growth and expansion of the Society and maintain the same high standards of performance? What is the future of Relief Society? What will it be tomorrow?"

It is true, generally speaking, that women's organizations do not persist over long periods of time. They are founded in the interest of some specific cause or have some special purpose. When the goals for which they were created are realized, they then slowly disintegrate, die out, or are dissolved, since the need for them no longer exists.

This will not be so with Relief Society. Time will not erase the need for it, nor will the purposes for which it was established cease to exist. Its goals are of an eternal nature; its founding and its mission are according to God's will.

Relief Society is the great women's organization of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—a companion organization to the priesthood. Where there is an organized ward or branch of the Church with a readiness for a Relief Society, there we find a priesthood-organized Society. This has been so since the day when, through revelation from the Lord, the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the sisters, calling their society "The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." Relief

338