[Vol55 | June | Magazine Page 4 | PDF Page 25]

--- PAGE 4 (PDF page 25) ---
The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the winners in the 1967 Relief Society Short Story Contest.

The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Emma Lou Warner Thayne, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "A Partridge in a Pear Tree." Second place winner is Mickey Goodwin, Vandenburg Air Force Base, California, for her story entitled "Eddie." Her prize is sixty dollars. Third prize of fifty dollars went to Sara Brown Neilson, Pasadena, California, for her story "More Than a Game."

The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial Observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit.

The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine in 1968, along with photographs and highlights of the lives of the contestants.

None of the winners has ever placed in a story contest previously, nor have they been represented in the Magazine.

award winners | ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY SHORT STORY CONTEST

The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing.

Seventy-nine stories were entered in the 1967 contest, making it the largest number ever submitted. They came from several countries outside the United States, and from many States of the Union.

Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except by the written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any story submitted to the contest, paying upon publication according to the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received first prize two years consecutively must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

Gratitude is extended to members of the General Board and to the judges who evaluated the stories and selected the winning entries.

The General Board congratulates the prize-winners on their fine stories.

24