[Vol55 | July | Magazine Page 6 | PDF Page 31]

--- PAGE 6 (PDF page 31) ---
January 1968

for my tree." She handed it to the man. He took it gently and fingered its fragile props.

"Look at that bird," he said after a minute's scrutiny. "The glue on its feet is still wet. He must have placed it on the bell and put the top on sometime since school, maybe even since I saw him in the yard. So what did he do with the pigeon in the meantime?"

"Why don't we go back to your street and look," Jenny proposed, unconscious of a poised ease that had never been hers around men before.

Miss Riley walked back to her desk and plumped into a chair. "You two go hunting and I'll get on the phone. If he's not home, someone will have seen him."

Despite windows twinkling with Christmas tree lights, the neighborhood was cold and deserted as the early dusk turned the gray slush on the walks into crackling mounds and valleys. Jenny even found herself clutching Mr. Reynolds's arm as her three-inch heels wobbled for footing.

"There's where he climbed the fence." He pointed, outwardly unmindful of her hand under his arm, but liking both hands and arm close in an unsteady welcome. "Come through the gate and look. Sorry I didn't have time to shovel again this morning."

The snowy yard showed several sets of footprints, and theirs joined the pocked path to the bird pen in the far corner of the yard. Almost before Jenny could see the birds in the dim twilight, Mr. Reynolds gasped, "Hey!"

and ran toward the cage. "Look, she's here! Blossom's in here. How in the world?" He began examining the catch on the pen and motioned Jenny to join him. "That kid's put it back!"

"What a relief! That Widdy— trust him to do the unexpected," smiled Jenny. "I knew if he'd taken it, it wasn't for anything mean. Which one was it anyhow?"

"That one there, the one with the brown blaze on its head. See, the one with . . . Hey, wait a minute. There's something on her leg."

He opened the door and reached for the pigeon. She snuggled with familiar ease into his open palms. He detached a piece of paper that had been fastened to its right leg with a wire from a plastic bread wrapper. Releasing the pigeon, he unfolded sticky layers of a note and squinted to make out its hieroglyphics. "Dere Mister Renalds," it began.

"Here," said an amused Jenny, "this is my department. I've been translating for years." She took the wrinkled paper and read with little hesitation, even in the near-dark:

DERE MISTER RENALDS,

I BARROWED YORE PIGEN CAUSE I NEEDED IT FOR A EXPERMENT I HAD TO SEE IF IT COULD BALENCE ON A BALL THANKYOU
                                    YOURS TURLY,
                                    WIDDY TURNER
P.S. IT COULD
PSS MERRY CHISMAS

Jenny looked up from the note and into the nice eyes that still looked bewildered. She was glad of the half-light that might dis-

30