[Vol55 | February | Magazine Page 7 | PDF Page 12]

--- PAGE 7 (PDF page 12) ---
they ought to be; but if they provide for you and they are kind to you and otherwise treat you right, stay with them. I think it has been taught by some that as we lay down our bodies they will so rise in the resurrection with all the imperfections and imperfections that they have here; and that if a wife does not love her husband in this estate, she cannot love him in the next. This is not so. Those who attain to the blessings of the first or celestial resurrection will be pure and perfect, perfect in body. Every man and woman that reaches to this unspeakable attainment will be as beautiful as the angels that surround the throne of God. (Journal of Discourses, Volume 10, page 24.)

Now, you sisters, polish your husbands as best you can while you have them here, and then hope that the Lord will continue the process beyond the veil.

PROVOKING HUSBANDS TO HONOR THEIR PRIESTHOOD

Another role of the mother is to provoke her husband to honor his Priesthood. Now, that is one partial quote from the Prophet Joseph's statement, you remember, to the early Relief Society. Your husband has the key to the effectual door to a celestial home in the eternities for you and your children, and unless you honor and magnify the Priesthood you and the family will suffer thereby, even to being deprived of that celestial home you want family without him. Have your family prayers, even when you must take the lead. See that your husband takes the lead in that if you can. See that he attends his Priesthood meeting, see that he responds to the call to do home teaching, and then you do everything you can, lovingly and patiently to help him to perform so that one day you, with

him and the children, can go through the temple.

ENLIST THE AID OF THE PRIESTHOOD

Next, I would say, enlist the aid of the Priesthood in meeting what to you may be insurmountable problems. There is a tendency to bypass the bishop—they say he is too close to us or he is too young and inexperienced, they fear he will not keep their confidence—which may be just an escape. I had a call from Meridian, Idaho, I guess I shouldn't have said that, but it is out, early in the morning, and the telephone operator said it was a collect call. I am always suspicious of a collect call and, in fact, I don't always have the money to pay it if that were done, but the operator said "She says she belongs to your Church and she is in need of help." And all I said was "Well tell her to look across the street and her bishop may be there, look around the corner and a stake president may be there, that is a fully organized stake, and there is nothing that can be done from this distance that couldn't be done by the officers and leaders right there at her elbow."

The bishop has at his command all the forces of the Priesthood, as well as the auxiliaries, to set in motion and, if we were to attempt to legislate, we would have to get in touch with the bishop through the stake president. So, we are just wasting time to come to the General Authorities and leap-frog over the bishop and the stake president.

I had a letter from a sweet girl whose marriage I performed

11