[Vol55 | April | Magazine Page 4 | PDF Page 17]

--- PAGE 4 (PDF page 17) ---
Hulda P. Young
Resigns as
General Secretary-
Treasurer

Counselor Marianne C. Sharp

[PHOTOGRAPH]

■ The nearly eleven years of devoted service which Hulda Parker Young has given to the office of General Secretary-Treasurer terminated on November 15, 1967. Many life experiences have come to Sister Young in these busy and fruitful years. She married Elder S. Dilworth Young in 1965, and is now resigning from the General Board in order to devote her time to her husband and home duties. She served from January 2, 1957.

Sister Young has given full devotion to her calling. She has always been eager to undertake any activity or attend any meetings which would better qualify her for her position. She felt the same desire for the secretaries who have worked with her and was always ready to advise and train them and to give them opportunity for advancement and progress.

The trust reposed in Sister Young regarding the General Board minutes and Relief Society Annual General Conference minutes has been fulfilled, and she leaves the office with all matters for which she has been responsible up-to-date. She has always been enthusiastic in her work with a perception of what should be included in the report of proceedings. Her secretary-treasurer departments at the Relief Society Annual General Conferences have been of great help to the stake and mission secretary-treasurers.

Sister Young has also fulfilled every assignment given to her as a General Board member, accepting assignments throughout the world where stakes are organized. She has evidenced a high regard and loyalty to the General Presidency, and has always been ready to carry out their wishes.

She has had a clear insight into her position and anticipated needed changes, keeping abreast in her records with the phenomenal growth of the Church.

Sister Young will be greatly missed by her associates of the General Board. Her cheery temperament, her friendly interest in people, her desire to do good, and her strong testimony of the gospel have all endeared her to those with whom she has worked.

Relief Society workers throughout the world will wish happiness and satisfaction to Hulda Parker Young as she relinquishes her special calling in Relief Society.

16