[Vol55 | March | Magazine Page 82 | PDF Page 91]

--- PAGE 82 (PDF page 91) ---
February 1968

labor has changed since then, the true relationship of husband and wife has not changed. Even when circumstances justify a wife's working away from home to support her family, she should be laboring "with," not on her own nor in conflict with her husband.

Latter-day Saint women, members of Relief Society particularly, might well ponder the significance of, and develop within themselves the great character trait revealed in the statement "and Eve . . . his wife, did labor with him." In Latter-day Saint families the husband and the wife must be one. As Paul has said, and which was quoted by Brother Simpson,

. . . neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. (1 Cor. 11:11.)

Now, after reciting that "she did labor with him," the record makes it plain that she did not shirk the responsibility of motherhood. It says:

And Adam knew his wife, and she bare him sons and daughters, and they began to multiply and to replenish the earth. (Moses 5:2.)

Later we are told that she bore Cain and Abel. (Moses 5:16-17.) Presumably, she bore Seth and many other children, for the record says that Adam lived after he begat Seth, "eight hundred years and begat . . . sons and daughters." (Moses 6:10-11.)

The charge to bear children, which the Lord gave to Eve, and to women, generally, is, by many, flouted today. The sordidness of our society, which on the one hand tolerates, encourages, and

even condones such abominations as unchastity and other types of licentious debauchery, and, on the other hand, legalizes abortions, encourages, and in some cases attempts to enforce birth control, is a prostitution of the functions of life. If these practices are not checked and reversed, they will bring us to the degradation of Sodom and Gomorrah, with like tragic consequences.

Over and over again, the Lord has inveighed against such abominations. He condemned them in the Ten Commandments; in the Sermon on the Mount, as he gave it in Palestine, and as he later gave it to the Nephites. He condemned them at the beginning of this last dispensation.

In the 59th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, after saying "Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill," he added this significant phrase, "nor do anything like unto it." I have not found in the scriptures a definitive statement of transgression which the Lord would liken unto adultery and killing; however, in view of the context in which this phrase appears, it is not unlikely that voluntary abortion would be included in such a list. Latter-day Saint women must continue to be earth's noblest bulwark against these wicked and abominable practices.

Most Relief Society women are under a divine charge to "multiply and replenish the earth," just as was Mother Eve. By seeking to emulate her compliance with this divine com-

86