[Vol55 | August | Magazine Page 600 | PDF Page 629]

--- PAGE 600 (PDF page 629) ---
Rolls For Many Occasions

Mildred Lewis, Mesa, Arizona

ONE-HOUR ROLLS (Basic Recipe)

1 c. hot water                    2 yeast cakes (dry or fresh)
1 tsp. salt                      1 egg, well beaten
6 tbsp. shortening               ¼ c. sugar
2 tbsp. lukewarm water           3½ c. flour, or more, as needed

Combine hot water, salt, shortening, and sugar. Cool until lukewarm. Add yeast, softened in lukewarm water. Add egg. Add half the flour to first mixture. Beat well. Add enough flour to make dough easy to handle. Knead on flour board. Roll into balls, place in greased muffin tins, brush with melted butter. Cover and allow rolls to rise in warm place (80°) until they double in size. Bake in hot oven (425°) for about twelve minutes. Remove and brush with fat. If rolls are wanted for later use, store dough in refrigerator in greased bowl. Brush with fat, cover. Makes 18 rolls.

SEVEN-MINUTE ROLLS (Using Basic Recipe)

You can have rolls more often without going to the trouble of mixing up a fresh batch every day. The trick is to "half bake" several batches when you have time. Then brown quickly just before you serve them. You can store these rolls in the refrigerator for two weeks. Instead of baking the rolls in a hot oven, bake them in a slow oven (275°) 20 to 40 minutes, which is a bit longer than usual. Be sure that the temperature is just 275° because that is the secret of success. When you take the rolls from the oven, they will be "platinum blond," but completely baked on the inside. When you want to serve them, remove from the refrigerator, and pop them into a 450° oven. In seven minutes they will be golden brown, and beautifully light and fresh.

TWICE-BAKED ROLLS

Soften 2 pkgs. dry or compressed yeast in one c. lukewarm water.
Add one tsp. sugar.
Put in bowl 3 tsp. salt and ¼ c. sugar.
Pour in 2 c. scalded milk. Stir to dissolve sugar and salt.
Cool to lukewarm, then add yeast mixture.
Mix in 6 c. sifted all-purpose flour, then add ½ c. cooled melted shortening.
Add about 4 c. more flour.

Turn out on lightly-floured board and knead until smooth and satiny. Put dough in greased bowl, grease top, and cover with a clean, damp towel; redampen occasionally. Allow dough to double in bulk in a warm place (85°). Punch down, knead again on a floured board, divide into four parts. Cover with a damp towel; let stand 20 minutes. Shape 4 loaves or 4 to 6 dozen rolls. Let rise in a warm place until ¾ as high as regular rolls or loaf. Otherwise, they fall when baked. Bake rolls in a slow oven (275°) for 40 minutes. Bake bread 1 hour and 15 minutes. Let stand in pans 20 minutes, then turn out to cool at room temperature. Wrap in waxed paper and store in refrigerator as long as two weeks, or wrap in freezer paper and freeze for as long as 3 months. Before serving, place rolls or bread on ungreased cookie sheet and brown for 7 minutes in 450° oven.

600