[Vol55 | December | Magazine Page 5 | PDF Page 50]

--- PAGE 5 (PDF page 50) ---
with our girls on Wednesdays after school. So why don't I take your children home with me and bring them back afterwards, and you can rest."

"Don't you want me to come to Primary?"

"Take it easy today," Charles laughed. "Next week you can be president! And let's see," he began counting on his fingers, "with Francine playing our piano for Sunday School, we can also use a chorister. And with more children, we will need a new Sunday School teacher so we can split the membership into age groups. Then we have made it a practice to hold our Family Home Evening on Sunday afternoon to discourage the children from wanting to go to the beach with their friends. And after they're in bed Sunday evenings, Francine and I usually read the lessons in The Relief Society Magazine and discuss them. Anyway, rest today. You'll have lots to do from now on."

"Sounds marvelous!" Nancy said. "For the last month, I have felt totally inactive."

As Grant stood at the window and watched the Mortensens drive away with Skip and Amy, Nancy opened her suitcase and began to look around for places to put things.

"I do dat!" Soledad said, grabbing a pile of clothes.

"But I don't really know where I want to put them yet," Nancy said.

"I show you."

And away she went down the hall to the bedroom.

Grant turned around smiling. "I guess she told you."

Nancy shrugged her shoulders and continued sorting through the suitcases, while Soledad came back for more.

"I saw a box of soap powder on the washer," Nancy said. "Would you mind washing these few soiled clothes we brought with us, Soledad?"

"You buy soap in yellow box!"

"What's the matter with the soap in the blue box?" Nancy asked.

"Yellow box get clothes clean! American magazine say so!"

Grant turned his head and tried to keep a straight face, while Nancy walked out to the kitchen to wash the clothes. Then Soledad began singing "I Wanna Hold Your Hand," at the top of her voice, as she dragged the heaviest suitcase toward the bedroom and then returned.

Nancy lifted a root-bound Philodendron, resting in a foil-covered jar, down from the top of the refrigerator.

"This thing needs water," she said, holding it under the faucet.

But as the water spilled up over her hand, so did something else. And as two black, beady eyes stared up at her from the back of her hand, Nancy screamed, dropped the bottle, and shook all over.

"Nancy!" Grant said. "It's only a harmless little gecko!"

"It was a lizard!"

"You scare him!" Soledad accused. "You scare him! Gecko good luck. And you scare him!"

Nancy looked at the two of them, shrugged her shoulders in defeat and walked toward the

49