[Vol55 | July | Magazine Page 5 | PDF Page 30]

--- PAGE 5 (PDF page 30) ---
"A Partridge In A Pear Tree"

"Well, let me tell you about it then, since you're so sure. No thanks, I don't want to sit," he said to Miss Riley's sudden attempt to play hostess. He half sat on her desk and looked directly at Jenny, appraising her tailored good grooming, though his eyes never left her face. She shifted her weight, suddenly aware of a stray hair and of ankles never quite slim enough.

"This afternoon I came home early," he started. "I'm gonna on a new shift tomorrow. Nobody is ever home at my place in the daytime since my wife died, so I was surprised to see someone moving around in the yard. I was in the bedroom and it took a minute to get to the back door. By the time I did, he was gone."

"And it was Widdy you saw?" asked Miss Riley. "Are you sure?"

"Sure I am. I know all the kids on the street. Sometimes I play football or baseball on the lawn with them. Keeps me in shape. Most of them are pretty good kids. Wish we'd had some. But, anyway, this Turner boy seems sort of strange—never really part of the gang. He'll play for a while and then wander off without saying anything, not even 'so long.' But I know him."

"Oh, you know him, Mr. Reynolds?" injected Jenny. "From just watching him? From never having talked to him? Nobody knows Widdy that way."

He glanced at her but went on, "Well, anyway, a couple of minutes later I went out to feed the birds, and Blossom was missing. She couldn't have got out of the pen by herself." I knew that. So I walked out front to talk to

the kids. They were standing around that big elm tree as they always do after school, even when it's almost freezing like today. There were tracks in the snow and I could see where someone had jumped the fence. I asked the kids, 'Have you seen anybody with my pigeon?' They all nodded and one of them said, 'Yeah, Widdy Turner just went down the street with it.' So, as I told you, I went to his house. Nobody there. I didn't know what to do, but I figured you would. So here I am." He shrugged as if his case were closed.

Jenny's mind whirred. How could Widdy have been in that yard and taken a pigeon and still have been here at school handing her a present, all at about the same time? School had been out—what—an hour and twenty minutes? He had been a busy boy. But what did he want with a pigeon—someone else's? And where was he now?

Miss Riley filled the blank. "The only thing to do is find Widdy. Do you have any idea where he might be, Miss Harrow? Did he say anything at school?"

"As a matter of fact, he was here, not ten minutes ago. He came back to bring me a gift. Come to think of it, I'd like you to see it." She found herself saying it much more to Mr. Reynolds than to the principal. "It would help you to know Widdy." She opened her large bag and drew out the crumpled box.

Carefully she removed the lid and held up the curious cage. "He made this and gave it to me

29