[Vol55 | December | Magazine Page 3 | PDF Page 48]

--- PAGE 3 (PDF page 48) ---
Throw Down the Gauntlet

"Sashimi's all right if you like the smell of raw fish," Charles Mortensen said, "be-cause that is exactly what it tastes like."

"I'll take you shopping to-morrow," Francine said. "The Ladies' Welcoming Committee left enough food in the quonset for you until then. So you can just take it easy today."

"Listen," Charles said, turn-ing a bit in the car seat to glance back at Nancy and Grant, "about the quonset. I hope you won't mind it. But since school has already started, the houses are all full."

"We're quite used to quonset living now," Nancy laughed. "Besides—people need things to look forward to. And we can dream about teachers termin-ating and leaving empty houses next summer!"

"Now, that's the right attitude to have," Francine said. "I can tell right now, you two are going to get along here just great!"

Amy and Skipper watched wide-eyed out of the windows as the car sped along Beach Road.

"It's much more jungly here than it is on Truk," Nancy said.

"Oh, that's just our boonies," Francine laughed. "Tangen-tangen, actually. But back in Nauru days, I guess someone started calling it the 'boondocks,' and now even the Saipanese call it the boomes. There really is other growth back in there. Tangen-tangen is not native to Saipan at all. But the entire island was so devastated and burned off by flame-throwers in the war, that the Government seeded this stuff by air to keep the soil from eroding. Now it's twenty feet high, and so dense one can't walk through it except with a machete. But it does provide the Saipanese with lots of good fire-wood for their outdoor cooking. And privacy? Well, you'd never know there was a house on the island!"

"Look, Mama!" Amy said. "Chickens!"

"Yes," Charles said. "Our one and only chicken farm on the whole island, where eggs are large, fresh, and only one dollar a dozen."

"Oh, not here, too," Nancy said. "That's one thing I am still wondering about. Our food budget has exactly doubled."

"There's one way to beat that," Charles said, "get used to local foods, and forget those canned and frozen imports. Now Francine puts together a salad of fresh pineapple, papaya, and avocado that will make you forget what lettuce even was!"

"I also know 199 ways to prepare rice," Francine teased. "And that reminds me, Nancy, better put rice and soya on your shopping list. Your house girl will eat it every day for lunch." Then she laughed to herself. "You know? Before we came out here I had one tiny bottle of soy sauce that lasted four years, and it was still only one-third gone. Now we go through one quart a month! Honestly, some-times I think Olympia drinks it! But then, I shouldn't say anything. I use a lot more of it now, myself."

"Excuse me," Grant said, "but did you say our house girl?"

"Oh, yes. I hope you don't mind. I went ahead and lined up

47