[Vol55 | February | Magazine Page 125 | PDF Page 130]

--- PAGE 125 (PDF page 130) ---
Aunt Minerva's Inspiration Dough
Minerva P. Everett

2 c. scalded milk                    1 c. warm water
6 tbsp. butter or margarine         1 tsp. salt
2 packages dry or fresh yeast       3 eggs beaten
1 tsp. sugar                        8 c. white flour

Scald the milk and add shortening while the milk is still hot. Dissolve yeast and sugar in warm water and add to the milk mixture when it is lukewarm. Add salt and eggs and mix well. Place in mixing bowl and add four cups of flour, mixing well. Allow to rise about two hours. Knead in the other 4 cups of flour. Let rise until double in bulk. Roll the dough and cut into biscuits. Dip each biscuit in melted shortening and fold over as in making Parker House rolls. Let rise until very light (about one hour). Bake at 350° for about twenty to twenty-five minutes, depending upon the size of the biscuits.

Cinnamon rolls may be made from this recipe by rolling out part or all of the dough as desired. Spread the dough with shortening and sprinkle with cinnamon in desired amounts. Then add seedless raisins which have been boiled for five minutes then drained. Roll the dough like a jelly roll and cut off the circles one or two inches thick. Dip in melted shortening in pan and turn over. Allow to rise until very light. Bake at 350° until brown (twenty to twenty-five minutes).

_____________

PIONEER RECIPES
Ruth Smith

Are you becoming tired of the same old treats for parties or family nights? Try these old, old recipes for something new and delicious.

Pioneer Wheat

Place a cup of clean, dry wheat in a pre-heated (medium heat) heavy pan, containing just enough vegetable oil to cover the bottom.
Stir about 5-10 minutes, until kernels are popped (they will pop without stirring, but scorch easily and taste burnt).
Sprinkle with popcorn salt, stir, and spread out on a paper towel to cool.
Keep small children's hands away until it does cool, as it can blister an over-eager hand.

Golden Parched Corn

Dried kernels of sweet corn can be cooked the same way. They may take a trifle longer to pop, however.

Note. For those interested in trying these recipes, wheat and corn can usually be purchased from farmers, food stores, flour and feed mills, or health food stores.

125