[WomansExponent | Vol2 | 1873 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: DIVERSIONS. | Author: Unknown]

DIVERSIONS.
	SKY-LIGHTS.—Sun, moon and stars.
	WHAT, word is always pronounced wrong?
Wrong. 
	HOTEL-KEEPERS are people we have to
put up with. 
	WHAT has a cat that nothing else has?
Kittens. 
WHEN is a dog like a fixed doctrine?—
When it is a dog-ma. 
	A DOG well-dressed wears a collar and
pants in the summer.
	IT has been asked, When rain falls, does
it ever get up?  Of course it does;—in dew
time.
	STRANGE to say, no matter how well paid
a dentist may be, he will always look down
in the mouth.
	"I HAVE lost flesh,” said a toper to his
companion.  “No great loss,” replied, the
other, “since you have made it up in spir-
its."
	“When a fellow is too lazy to work in
this section,” writes a correspondent from a
village in Canada East, “he paints his name
over his door, and calls it a tavern, and makes
all his neighbors as lazy as himself.”
	IRISH TELESCOPE—An Irishman was one
day observing to a friend that he had a most
excellent telescope.  “Do you see yon
church,” said he, “about half a mile off?
It’s scarcely discernible; but when I look at
it through my telescope, it brings it so close
that I can hear the organ playing.”	
	﻿Irascible old man—“Conductor, why didn’t
you wake me as I asked you? Here I am,
miles beyond my station.”—Conductor—“I
did try,sir, but all I could get out of you was,
'All right, Maria; get the children their
breakfast, and I’ll be down in a minute. ”
	A TROY paper thus states a Trojan joke:
“A dentist of this city became emotionally
insane while repairing a front tooth for a
pretty woman, and kissed her. She imme-
diately went home and told her husband,
who went around that way the same eve-
ning, and borrowed $500 of the dentist on
long time and without interest.” 
	A GUARDIAN of the peace in New York
made his first essay as a ‘mounted police-
man,’ one day last week, by grasping the
horse’s tail and attempting to climb up that
way. The surgeon subsequently remarked,
that no horse ever had a finer opportunity,
or took advantage of it with such infinite
scorn of the consequences.
	A MARKET girl sold a gentleman a fine fat
goose, warranting it to be young.  It turned
out, when roasted, to be unmanageably
tough.  The next day the gentleman said
to the market girl, “That goose which you
sold me for a young one was very old.”—
“Certainly not,” said the girl “don’t you
call me young?”—“Yes.”—“Well I am but
nineteen, and I heard mother say often, that
that goose was six weeks younger than me.”
	A MAN was brought up by a farmer, and
accused of stealing some ducks. The farmer
said he should know them anywhere, and
went on to describe their peculiarity.
“Why,” said the magistrate, “they can’t be
such a very rare breed! I have some like
them in my yard.”  “That’s very likely,
your honor,” said the farmer; “these are
not the only ducks of the same sort I have
had stolen lately!”
	“DEAR old Aunt Mary,” said a school
girl, “don’t see very well, and last Sunday
she was buzzing around getting ready for
church, looking for umbrella, specs, over-
shoes, and last but not least her prayer book.
The latter she thought she secured by grab-
bing something off her bureau at the last
moment, but when she got to church it
proved to be my music box, and the old
lady, in trying to find her place in this un-
common book of prayer, touched the spring
and it went off in fine style to the tune of
“O Jim Along, Jim Along Josey.”
	THE following is the verdict of a negro
jury: “We, de undersigned, bein' a Koro-
ner’s jury to sit on de body of de nigger,
Sambo, now done dead and gone afore us,
hab been sittin’ on de said nigger aforesaid,
and find dat de same did on de night of de
fourteenth of November come to def by
fallin’ from de bridge ober de riber in de said
riber and brokin his neck, where we'find he
'was subsequently drowned and afterwards
washed to do riber side, whar we suppose
he was froze to def.”
	ONE night a judge, a military officer, and
a priest, all applied for lodging at an inn
where there was but one spare bed, and the
landlord was called upon to decide which
had the best claim of the three.  “I have
lain fifteen years in the garrison at B.,”
said the officer.  “I have sat as judge twenty
years in R.,” said the judge.  “With your
leave, gentlemen, I have stood in the min-
istry twenty-five years at N.,” said the
priest. “That settles the dispute,” said the
landlord. “You, Mr. Captain, have lain fif-
teen years you, Mr. Judge, have sat twenty
years but the aged pastor has stood fivc-
and-twenty years, so he has the best right
to the bed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
			S. L. City, April 9th, 1874.
DEAR SISTER L. GREENE RICHARDS:—
	Permit me to offer a few of my reflections
through the EXPONENT. My mind has
been much exercised in regard to the youth
of this our people. I had supposed that our
children would naturally grow up in the
faith of the Gospel, and believe it as firmly
as do their parents. Perhaps some do. But
many that I meet with, evince a spirit quite
the reverse. It gives me pain to see this in
children of good, kind, heavenly-minded
parents, who have, many of them, left their
homes, friends, native land, everything on
earth that was dear to them, and come to
this far off desert country, braved the storms
of persecution, poverty and privation, some
almost starvation, for the sake of this Gos-
pel—which is the power of God unto salva-
tion to every one who believes and is exer-
cised thereby—that they might raise up a
posterity who would keep the command-
ments of God. When we find so many go-
ing far astray, and even joining themselves
to unbelievers and persecuters, thus cutting
themselves off from all the privileges and
blessings of the Gospel, it is enough to
grieve the heart and cause many bitter re-
flections. Some months ago, I dreamed I
stood by a stream of water. It looked bright
and beautiful on the surface, but had a deep,
dark, and strong undercurrent. Many
young and beautiful maidens, were sporting
beside this stream, and a serpent lay watch-
ing their movements with apparent pleas-
ure Some of the young girls, regardless of
the cries and entreaties of their friends,
would jump into the water, which, assum-
ing a serpentine course and a swift current,
dashed them from side to side, and hurried
them on to sudden destruction. Others
more wise listened to the admonitions of
their friends, and were saved from the aw-
ful consequences. Of late, I am much
pleased with the efforts that are being made
for the benefit of the rising generation.
Already we can see great good resulting
from them, and let us be encouraged.
Mothers, sisters, let us unite our efforts in
this good work, that we may yet rejoice in
seeing our children growing up in the fear
of the Lord, becoming useful ornaments in
society.				R. C. A.
		SPRINGVILLE, April 8th, 1874.
	My feelings of gratitude and love to God,
for the Gospel made known through the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith, are truly a source of
continual pleasure. I am satisfied; for my
eyes have seen and my ears heard, and I
know the Gospel harmonizes with the Scrip-
tures, fulfills many of the prophecies and
gives us just conceptions of our Father in
Heaven. It contains the most glorious prin-
ciples for a future state of existence, it ele-
vates our ideas, it plainly shows us the du-
ties of a Saint, and though many of our
friends may reject the truth, the time will
come when their eyes will be opened to a
sense of their folly. If the ways of truth
were ever evil spoken of, now is the time.
The language of the apostle is very compre-
hensive; we have truce-breakers, false ac-
cusers of the Saints and the revelations
which God has given for our guidance.
What are they working at in Congress? Is
there no one to attend to the people's cause
and administer righteous laws? Yes, one
of the anointed of the Lord is there, and
some that the Lord is working through, but
they cannot see it. May the great Jehovah
inspire our hearts with wisdom sufficient to
lead the young and tender branches, the
[Column 2]
gems that He has given us to watch over,
with love and kindness; teaching them to
respect those that have been appointed to
lead them in the ways of truth. May we,
my sisters, as mothers, be moved by influ-
ences pleasant as the dew of Heaven, gentle
as angels' ministerings, to extend the guid-
ing hand of love to those who may seek our
aid. Those who would be happy, had best
not inquire too curiously into the doings of
their neighbors, but ever find some useful
business for themselves.
				HANNAH HARRISON.
		SMITHFIELD, April 22nd. 1874.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	At one of our Fast Meetings, not long since,
when there was a good, large gathering and
all seemed to feel well, I had some reflec-
tions of which I thought I would like to
pen a few for your consideration. The time
was entirely occupied with the testimonies
borne concerning the truth of the Everlast-
ing Gospel in these Latter-days. Many
brethren testified that they knew that Jos-
eph Smith was a Prophet of God—as great
a Prophet as had ever lived since the days of
the Savior. And that Brigham Young was
his lawful successor, appointed by God,
through divine revelation to lead the Church
in these the last days, As my heart burned
within me, almost to the consuming of my
flesh, with grateful responses to the truth of
those sentiments, I was led to reflect thus.
This is a great testimony we have to give.
How many of us realize its importance?
We believe in all sincerity, that our leaders
are inspired men, that they speak to us by
the testimony of Jesus, which is the spirit
of prophecy; and we believe their teach-
ings to be the word of God unto us, yet—
how many of us live by it? Jesus said, man
should not live by bread alone, but by every
word that proceeded out of the mouth of
God. Do our works and our words corres-
pond? In many instances I fear not. How
about the little things, the Word of Wis-
dom for instance, which is adapted to the
"weakest of those who are worthy to be
called Saints?" Did not President Young
a few years ago, in warning the people, say
that this was to be no longer trifled with?
That he could say to no one, that this law
might be broken unless they were willing
to lose the blessings promised to the faith-
ful? How many of us fail even in these
simple things? And how and when shall
we be prepared for the great things which
the Lord has in store for His faithful Saints
—which He is waiting and willing to pour
out upon us, were we but willing and able to
receive them? My beloved sisters let us
strive to live by every word of God, and
have faith in Jesus; so shall we receive
great blessings, and wisdom through which
we may become heirs of Salvation. May
union increase in Israel, and may all who
seek to work righteousness, have power to
stand, that they be not overcome. And for
you, dear Editor, may the Spirit of God
actuate you continually, and assist you in
all your wise efforts.
						S. K. G.


THE Ailanthus, or more properly the Ai-
lantus tree is declared to be poisonous by
Mr. S. Melvin of Oswego, N. Y. About ten
years ago, in the month of August, he cut
down and trimmed an Ailantus tree when
in full bloom and in consequence of its pois-
onous effects he suffered from head to foot,
his face being so badly swollen as to close
his eyes.


