The Discontinued Custom
By Annie Pike Greenwood
Grandmother Snowden awoke with a feeling of pleasurable anticipation. She was one of those rarest of old people who take delight in the living present. She had always taken delight in life, and age had not altered her. She kept up all old family customs, but dearer than all others to her were the Christmas festivities, when her boys and girls, and in-laws, and all their children, took dinner with her, and spent the evening in mad merriment in the spacious, beautiful old mansion. Fun they knew how to have, for they had inherited Grandmother's abundant humor, modified and hampered, unfortunately by Grandfather Snowden's irascible temper. Grandmother was the only person who knew, perfectly, how to manage Grandfather Snowden, just as she was generally managing one or another of their quick tempered progenitors. Grandfather Snowden had been dead five years, and the Christmas planning was on her mind alone.
With the help of her maid Amanda, who had been with her for twenty years, she dressed herself, and set out in her coupe for the market. An ordinary dinner she would trust to Mrs. Berswick, the housekeeper, but the Christmas dinner must be her own selection in every detail.
Meredith's the high-class shop which had everything one might desire in edibles, was where her trading was always done. To the younger clerks she was known by her account, but the older ones remembered that she appeared annually to do her own buying, and they turned over to younger clerks such customers as they might be waiting upon, and gave their time exclusively to Mrs. James W. Snowden as long as she might desire it.
"Mr. Hampton," she addressed the elderly man who had hurried eagerly toward her upon her entrance, having instructed Sammy Brown to take the rest of young Mrs. Pierpont's order. "Mr. Hampton, have you a large turkey for me?"
Hampton beamed and rubbed his hands on his white apron delightedly. "I sure have, Mrs. Snowden. I saved one especial for you. When this shipment of turkeys came, there was one fellow that out-beat all the rest, and I says to the boys right then, "There's Mrs. Snowden's turkey!' and I set it aside, as you'll see, with name on it. I s'pose you want to take it with you as you always do?"
Grandmother Snowden smiled at him, with a pretty flush in her cheeks, "Certainly, Mr. Hampton; I want to take the whole 
dinner back with me. Did you remember another turkey for the servants?"
"Yes, ma'am, Mrs. Snowden. I saved another. But this bird I saved for your family—Well, you'll see—" He left her, and was back in a moment with two turkeys, placing one of them on the scales, and proudly drawing her attention to it. "See that, Mrs. Snowden? Tips the scales at thirty pounds! Don't see many birds like that!"
One thing after another she ordered until the dinner was complete, and when she rode home it was with the triumphant consciousness of a happy deed accomplished. While the chef was busy with her directions concerning desserts, she thought she would telephone her girls of the approaching event, and enjoy the anticipatory pleasure of discussing it. Of course, there was no question in her mind about their coming, because a custom established in the Snowden family was never discontinued.
"Hello, Edith, is that you?—I have the finest turkey I ever had for our Christmas dinner, and—Who is to be here?—Why, what a funny question! All of you, of course:—What's that?—You won't come if Helen does?—Edith Singleton, are you crazy?—you won't come if your own sister comes?—She didn't come to help you with that dinner you were giving, when she had promised? Well, perhaps—You say you know she was just joy-riding with that Mrs. Eggers?—But, Edith—well, I am provoked with you! Goodbye!"
Grandmother Snowden hung up the receiver with a snap, and a sparkle of indignation was in her eyes. Then she took it from the hook and asked for another number.
"I want Helen—Oh, Helen! Of course, you are coming to eat Christmas dinner with me!—Why not Edith?—Oh!—What about Fred?—He didn't let Grant in on that deal when he made all that money and he could just as well have done it?—Oh, what shall I do with such a family!—You say the Fletchers, Hancocks, Demmings, and Glaziers won't come if the Yates, Moores, Valentines, Wilkins and Keisers do?—Very well! Then none of you shall come! I won't have a broken-up squabbling family sitting at my table " Grandmother Snowden's heart was high. A red spot burned is either cheek. "Amanda," she directed that faithful servitor, "Have Jerry take the big turkey to the Salvation Army, with all that goes with it. I shall be dining alone on Christmas day." Amanda did not question Grandmother's decision, and she knew better than to offer any consolatory words. But her heart boiled with indignation at the persons or circumstances which had interrupted this dearest of all customs to Grandmother Snowden's heart. On Christmas day Grandmother Snowden went about the 618 on cards, and when she reached the hotel in her handsome modern gown, she placed these cards herself on the dining-table in the Japanese room, every other one face downward. Ed Proctor she told to have her guests in the blue room notified first. When they seated themselves according to her direction, it was with some surprise that they noted the vacant chair by each place. What could it mean? None of them dared investigate the cards which lay face downward beside the unclaimed plates. The blue room guests were ushered into the dining-room. They entered the room in a body, and stood staring in shocked surprise. Claire Keiser, who had inherited most abundantly her grandmother's sense of humor, was the first to regain her self-possession, bursting into rippling laughter, and swooping down upon her grandmother, "Oh, you darling! What a perfectly delightful scheme! Now, don't a single one of you scrapping old fogies spoil Grandmother's Christmas by sulking! You sit right down where she wants you. Is my name by you, Grandmother? It is! How lovely! I hoped you'd want me as much as I wanted you!" Embarrassed, but smiling, the entire family was seated. Every member was glad of the stroke of genius that had brought them together. Like combative people in general, they welcomed the chance of reconciliation that would not compromise their pride. During the chattering and laughter which followed, Edith leaned across the table to Helen and said, "Of course, we are all going to Mother's after dinner, aren't we?' "Of course,' answered Helen, "we couldn't discontinue an old custom!" A flicker of tolerant humor came into Grandmother Snow-. Den's old eyes as she overheard them.