Guide Lessons for February LESSON I (First Week in February) Theology and Testimony THE PARABLES OF OUR SAVIOR (Concluded) The Royal Marriage Feast. Matt. 22:1-14. "And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said, "The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son, "And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding: and they would not come. "Again he sent forth other servants. Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage. "But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandize: "And the remnant took his servants, and entreated them spitefully, and slew them. "But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth: and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. "Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy. "Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. "So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all, as many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests. "And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there. A man which had not on a wedding garment: "And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither, not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. "Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness: there shall _ be weeping and gnashing of teeth." Comments?In many respects this illustrative story is like the 'one recorded in Luke 14:16-24, and some writers have taken each to be of a different version of the other. The differences, however 648 are too great to admit of a conclusion that the two parables were identical. One was spoken in the temple; the other was uttered at the Sabbath feast, given at the home of a prominent Pharisee. These two parables are different in their nature in that one is milder than the other. In one the offence of the guests is limited to declining the invitation with excuses; in the other the invitations are treated with contempt, insult, and the murder of the messengers, In one, the penalty was an edict against admitting anyone who had not accepted the invitation; in the other case the insolent and criminal conduct was punished by the destruction of their city and the forfeiture of life; One was spoken at a time when open rebellion against Christ's mission had not been declared; the other at a time when hostility was at its height, and his death had been determined by an official council of the scribes and Pharisees. In one parable the giver of the feast is a prominent citizen; in the other, the host is a king. In one case the invitations were the cordial solicitations of a nobleman; in the other, the bidding was the call of an official leader. In one case the banquet had one object; the enjoyment of the guest; in the other it had a double purpose: the pleasure of the guests and the commemoration of the wedding of the king's son?The day in which the love, confidence, protection, and presence shall exist between Christ and his Church that exists between groom and bride. This parable, like the one of "The Great Supper," was both historic and prophetic. In it there seems to be a crystalized statement of the mission of John the Baptist and the apostles, and the rejection of their messages. Then it carries over into the future and indicates the persecution and killing of the messengers, just as was the case after the death of Jesus then the penalties which are now matters of history are predicted. Then, the filling of the guest chamber from the "highways," is history being made, and finally the discovery and ejectment of the unfit from the feast is yet to come. "The king of the parable is God;" we read on page 538, in Jesus the Christ, "the son whose marriage was the occasion of the feast, is Jesus, the Son of God; the guests who were bidden early, yet who refused to come when the feast was ready, are the covenant people who rejected their Lord, the Christ; the later guests, who were brought in from the streets and the roads, are the Gentile nations, to whom the gospel has been carried since its rejection by the Jews; the marriage feast is symbolical of the glorious consummation of the Messiah's mission.' In this parable the man without a wedding garment becomes a center of interest. Those to whom Jesus was speaking would GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 649 know of the custom of supplying wearing costumes suited to the occasion. On this occasion it would seem that provision had been made for every one to be supplied with the necessary festive attire. This fact may account for the speechlessness of the intruder, he could make no excuse for he knew that the king knew that wedding garments had been given to all who came in at the door. Therefore, he merited the treatment of a "thief and a robber." Then arises the question as to what was meant by the wedding garment without which no one could legally enter, or be permitted to remain in the kingdom. Was it not the robe spoken of in Gal. 3:27? One biblical authority says: "The wedding garment is righteousness, in its largest sense: the whole adornment of the new and spiritual man, including faith, without which it is impossible to please God, and the holiness, without which no man shall see him?or like this guest, shall only see him to perish at his presence." The outer darkness is a state of weeping through disappointment, and gnashing of teeth through hatred. Of the lessons taught by this the last parable, spoken by Jesus to a mixed assembly, the following seem most prominent: 1. The Lord desires the happiness of all. 2. The Lord is not dependent on any special class of per-. Sons for the carrying out of his purposes. 3. The Lord has a way of scrutinizing every individual no matter how great the group. 4. Blessings can be obtained only through obedience to law. Parable of the Entrusted Talents?Matt. 25:14-30. "For the kingdom of heaven is as a man traveling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. "And unto one he gave five talents, to astettien. Two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. "Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents. "And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two. "But he that had received one, went and digged in the earth, and hid his Lord's money. "After a long time the Lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. "And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. 650 "His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them. "His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou has been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. "Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed: "And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine. "His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed: "Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. "Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents. "For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." Comment?This parable has something in common with the parable of the Pounds recorded in Luke 19:11-27. They both aim at the encouragement of faithfulness in the use of ability and opportunity. Each teaches the necessity of implicit confidence in the Lord as paymaster. In both instances the proprietors were going on journeys. In both parables loyalty and effort were rewarded, while disloyalty and negligence were met with merited punishment ?the outer darkness which always follows iniquity. Both parables are illustrative of the truth couched in the statement, Care for and keep; neglect and lose. These parables differ in that in one, the amounts entrusted were equal; in the other the distribution of capital was according to the capacity of the servant?"every man according to his several ability." The parables of the Pounds was spoken on the way from Jericho to Jerusalem to a mixed multitude. The parable of the Entrusted Talents, the last of his parables, was spoken to His disciples after his final visit to the temple. Among the lessons of life to be learned from the parable of the Entrusted Talents stands out in bold relief the importance of doing our best with what is entrusted to our care. Had the 652 12. To whom was the last parable spoken, and what great Latter- 13. Discuss the problem: Our good works follow us as lifting evers. LESSON II (Second Week in February) | Work and Business Teachers' Topic for February Curfew Law A siren or bell should not be necessary to establish the observance of this law. A sentiment in favor of its value ought to be encouraged - in every home. The Lord has told us the value of retiring early, in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88. Sleep is as conducive to health as food. LESSON III (Third Week in February) Literature SIDNEY LANIER 59 Sidney Lanier was a notable example of a man of versatile talent. He seemed for many years of his life as much the musician as the poet. Only as he matured did it become apparent that he had more creative ability as a poet than he had as a musician. Yet the fact that he was a musician made of him one of those rare singers, the music of whose verse thrills with a satisfaction unknown, where the feeling for music is lacking. Such a poet was John Milton among the English, and such a poet was Sidney Lanier among Americans. We have already noted the music of Edgar Allen Poe's verse, who, like Lanier, was of Southern birth. Critics are pretty generally agreed that no one but a man day Saint lesson is taught by it? A GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY | 653 of Southern birth could have written what Sidney Lanier wrote; consequently he becomes an intepreter of the section that gave him birth. His life was a severe struggle with untoward circumstances. War, poverty, and serious ill health, growing out of the hardships of both poverty and war, were his portion. One cannot resist wondering what his contribution might have been had he been nurtured in an environment such as Longfellow and Lowell knew. He was born in Macon, Georgia, February 3, 1842. He attended school until the age of fourteen, when he entered Oglethrope college.: His musical gift was inherited, for as a boy he could play any instrument he tried. His favorite instrument was the violin, which proved to be so wearing on his sensitive nature that, yielding to his fathers request, he gave it up and devoted himself to the flute. He mastered the flute without instruction, and later "attained great distinction as first flutist in the Peabody Orchestra, of Baltimore," say his biographers. After being graduated he served as a tutor for nearly a year, resigning to enlist in the Confederate army, in April, 1861. He went through the war as a private, declining several offers of promotion, because he was. Unwilling to be separated from his brother Clifford to whom he was devoted, in an extraordinary degree. However, close to a year before the war was over the two were separated by being detailed as signal officers on board a blockade runner. While in this service, Sidney was captured, and imprisoned for five months. During the war he began to develop symptoms of tuberculosis. Imprisonment in the wretched prison at Point Lookout, North Carolina, provided just the development of the disease; consequently Sidney Lanier may be regarded as one of the victims of the Civil War, as his death was undoubtedly the result of living the life of a soldier. On his release from prison on February, 1865, he walked home to Georgia, where he went through a severe illness of six weeks. Just as he recovered his mother died. - Poverty had engulfed the Lanier family as it had thousands of other southern families, so that this gifted son of the South took the first occupation that presented itself, which chanced to be a clerkship in an Alabama hotel, at Montgomery. In May, 1867, Lanier went to New York to arrange for the publication of his war novel Tiger Lilies. In September of the same year he became principal of a school in Prattsville, Alabama. Three months after, he married Miss Mary Day of his own home town, Macon, Georgia. The union proved to be ideally happy, and might almost be classed with such a marriage as Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning. From his devotion to his wife GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY ~? And loves for all that God and man In art and nature make or plan, And lady-loves for spidery lace And broideries and supple grace And diamonds and the whole sweet round Of littles that large life compound, And loves for God and God's bare truth, And loves for Magdalen and Ruth. Dear eyes, dear eyes and rare complete? Being heavenly-sweet and earthly-sweet, I marvel that God made you mine, For when He frowns 'tis then ye shine! A month after marriage Lanier went back to Macon, Georgia, in poor health. For some reason, not plain, he went into the study of law with his father, a venture that covered four years. His health became the urgent necessity of his life, so that he first took a trip to New York for treatment, and later to Texas for climate. In December, 1873, he began work with the Baltimore orchestra, publishing fourteen months later the poem that marked him as a man of genius. This poem called forth by a Georgia Jandscape in summer he called Corn. It begins: Today the woods are trembling through and through With shimmering forms, that flash before my view, Then melt in green as dawn-stars melt in blue. From the date of the publication of Corn, Bayard Taylor, the distinguished writer, and Sidney Lanier became fast friends. He procured the appointment for Lanier to write a cantata for the Philadelphia Centennial of 1876. Lanier has paid Taylor more than one tribute in verse. The years remaining to Lanier were spent in a vain attempt to find a climate in which he might live without suffering so severely. He tried the mountains near North Carolina "and Tampa, Florida. Lanier's musical talent contributed much to his musical success. To the type of poetry where sound and movement combine to produce both meaning and music, he made a most valuable contribution. Much as he loved music, and greatly as it added to his poetry, for he sometimes set his poetry to music, he desired more to be an expert in the field of literature. This desire was granted all too late, we are tempted to say, for the embers of life were burning low with him when he accepted a chair in Johns Hopkins University. We are told that his students often wondered if his breath would last through the recitation. After two years' service, from 1879-1881, at Johns Hopkins University, he wrote the Commemoration Ode, delivered on the 656 University's fourth anniversary which contains the beautiful lines: "Bring faith that sees with understanding eyes, The world has bloomed again, at Baltimore." He passed to his reward at Asherville, North Carolina, where he died in September. Mrs. Lanier's description of the event is a classic, so we include it: "We are left alone with one another. On the last night of the summer comes the change. His love and immortal will hold off the destroyer of our summer one more week, until the forenoon of September 7th, and then falls the frost, and that unfaltering will renders its supreme submission to the adored will of God." A character poem of Lanier's is The Symphony. In the poem he personifies each instrument in the orchestra and makes them discuss various deep social questions of the time. Like most artists, Lanier makes a plea for more heart in