THE SEX.

	QUEEN Victoria is said to be writing a
book, the scene being laid in Germany.
	THE Baroness Lionel de Rothschild is said
to be the author of “From January to De-
cember.”
	IT is said of the mother of Chang and
Eng, the Siamese Twins, she was so large
that when she died the sides of the doorway
had to be cut away to enable the coffin to
pass out.
	AT the thirty-fourth Annual Commence-
ment of the Baltimore College of Dental
Surgery, Miss Louise Jacobi, of Berlin, Prus-
sia, graduated with high honor, being
among the first in anatomy and chemistry.
	THE names of the four Swedish girls who
are attracting so much attention in Paris
by their quartet singing of Scandinavian
melodies, are Hilda Wideburg, Marie Peter-
sen, Amy Aberg and Wildelmina Soeder-
lund.
	THE will of Miss Bettie Bates was pro-
bated at Indianapolis. It disposes of a
quarter of a million of property; $150,000
she bequeaths to her relatives and friends,
and she provides a fund of $100,000 for the
benefit of the poor of the city.
	MRS. Dr. Helen W. Webster of New Bed-
ford, has accepted the position of Professor
of Physiology and Hygiene and Resident
Physician at Vassar College. Mrs. Webster
has been very successful as a physician at
New Bedford, and is represented to be well
qualified for her new position.
	MISS Landseer has presented £100 to the
English Lifeboat Institution as a memorial
of the regard her brother, Sir Edwin
Landseer, had often expressed for the Insti-
tution as the means of a great and noble
work on the coast of the British Isles.
	THE Princess Pierre Bonaparte has arrived
in Paris. Having been reduced almost to
poverty by the fall of the empire, she deter-
mined to try and gain her own living, and
so set up a dressmaker’s establishment in
Bond St., London, which is now in a thriv-
ing state. She went to Paris to make pur-
chases.
	A MARYLAND lady, Mrs. B. H. Conway,
of Frederick County, who has established a
reputation as a contractor for “fills” and
“cuts,” has filled several contracts in Penn-
sylvania, been awarded a $100,000 job on
the Western Maryland Railroad, and now
takes the work of excavating a tract in Bal-
timore for building sites.
	QUEEN Victoria is gradually recovering
from the grief of her widowhood. For a
long time after the death of the Prince Con-
sort she could not bear to touch a piano, nor
did she even allow one to be opened in her
presence. Now she has resumed her old
accomplishment, and plays duets with her
last remaining daughter, the Princess Bea-
trice; and Gounod has arranged some of the
music of “Jeanne d’Arc” as a duet for the
Queen and her daughter.
	THE education of native girls in India is
progressing satisfactorily, in spite of the so-
cial prejudices against it. In a recent ex-
amination of the Free Church Orphanage,
six girls out of ten obtained sufficient marks
to have put them in the first division of the
University list, and some of the examiners
were Hindoos. Similar results have been
obtained in Madras, where the girls pass the
government examination for certificated
school mistresses.


