TIGHT DRESSES.

	“Oh, I should die; why, I am so weak I
can’t hold myself up when I loosen or take
off my corsets,” said a young married
woman to us. So you think you could im-
prove upon God’s plan of constructing the
trunk of the body? He curiously adjusted
and balanced the machinery of life inside of
a framework of bones—some of them firm
others flexible—all clothed with flesh con-
taining veins, arteries and nerves. Even
the covering we call the skin is more deli-
cate and beautiful in its structure than satin
or silk. But God’s wisdom is nothing to
you! Oh, no! you know best, of course! and
therefore attempt to improve upon His
plan by putting ribs of bone and steel on the
outside of this delicate network of pulsing
veins, throbbing arteries and flashing
nerves,
	Do you not remember how the Chinese
woman swathes, and wraps, and binds up
the feet of her daughter until she is com-
paratively crippled, and in our eyes, pain-
fully deformed?
	Systematic compression of the foot or arm
will not destroy life, but cripples the arm or
foot. The vital functions of life are carried
on in the trunk of the body. The lungs,
liver, heart and stomach are vital organs.
When their vigor is impaired we are sick
or ailing; when the functions of one or more
of these organs cease we die. Compression
of these is destructive of life, just in the
ratio that it impairs the vigor of these vital
organs.
	You do not breathe naturally in a corset
or tight waist. In natural respiration the
diaphragm contracts at every inspiration,
and forces the liver, stomach and bowels
downward and outward—this outward mo-
tion, and the vigor and tone it gives to
outside muscles, you have, in a large de-
gree, for years prevented; hence, when re-
leased from steel ribs, your stomach feels
weak. At each expiration, or outward
breath, the diaphragm relaxes, and the ab-
dominal muscles contract, forcing these or-
gans back to their former position; thus
keeping these vital organs in constant and
perpetual motion. This, dear, little,
thoughtless woman, is the reason you are
weak. This is the way and why you have
torpid liver and sallow skin. This is the
reason you are debilitated, and don’t know
what to do with yourself.
	Motion and room to breathe in are neces-
sary to good digestion. You have gradu-
ally compressed the size of your waist, and
pressed these vital organs back, until they
are weak and flaccid—torpid. You are only
a burlesque on a healthy woman, who runs
over with energy, and cheerfulness, and
health.
	Repent—prove yourself by your works-
burn up your corsets. Of firm drilling
make short, loose fitting waists, high in the
neck, short on the shoulder, with long
sleeves. Place a large button every three
inches around the bottom of the waist, and
hang every skirt and pair of drawers to this
waist. Do not allow anything to be tight
enough to make a crease, or print in the
flesh. You will very soon regain vigor and
bloom.—“Journal of Health."


[Column 1]
	NOTHING is so tiresome to the busy as the
visits of the idle.

[Column 2]
MRS. H. K. PAINTER, M. D.
			ELECTRIC PHYSICIAN.
		Electricity administered when casos requre.
Office, East side of Second East Street, one and a hal
blocks south of Theatre, Salt Lake City.

