LABOR IN LITERATURE.

	Verses to which a journalist will cheerfully al-
low space in his daily local paper, may be dashed off
by many of the “small harpers with their glees,”
as a pleasant way of killing an idle hour. But
Tennyson was ten years writing “In Memoriam.”
Thomas Grey was, in his day, one of the finest
scholars in Great Britain, and perhaps unsurpassed
in Europe. Very brief is the poem to which he
mainly owes his celebrity, and which will keep his
memory green and fragrant as long as the English
language lasts. It may be read through in five
minutes, but Grey was seven years in elaborating
it. Upon his death bed Daniel Webster called for
this poem. The gallant Wolfe, when, under cover
of night, transporting his brave men to the mem-
orable heights of Abraham, broke the solemn silence
which pervaded the boats, by repeating stanzas of
the “Elegy in a Country Churchyard,” and finished
with the exclamation, “Gentlemen, I would prefer
being the author of that poem, to the glory of beat-
ing the French to-morrow.” Perhaps these words
were prompted to the devoted soldier by the invol-
untary reflection which Rufus Choate expressed,
when he said, “The only immortality is in a book.”
But Grey’s is no solitary case of scrupulousness in
literary work. At the town of Ferrara is still
treasured the ancient scrap of paper upon which
Ariosto wrote one of his stanzas—the description
of a tempest—in sixteen different ways before be-
coming satisfied with it. That stanza is one of the
most celebrated among Ariosto’s remains.
	Petrarch surpassed this. One of his verses or
stanzas he re-wrote six-and-forty times; and Tas-
so’s manuscripts so abound in alterations, that they
are illegible to other people’s eyes. Montesquieu
once remarked to a friend, concerning a particular
part of his writings: “You will read it in a few
hours, but I assure you that it has cost me so much
labor that it has whitened my hair.” Newton,
despite his great intellect and huge stores of learn-
ing, found within himself patience to write his
“Chronology” sixteen times over. Gibbon wrote
out his “Autobiography” nine times, and gave
twenty years’ toil to his “Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire,” When the late Dr. Buckland
was preparing his “Bridgewater Treatise upon Ge-
ology and Mineralogy,” he made such numerous and
frequent changes in the composition, that his wife
copied part of it for him nineteen times, and pen-
ned four separate copies of the whole work. It
was a favorite theory with Goethe, and on this point
the meditative Coleridge agreed with the many-sid-
ed German, that power to conjure up lively senti-
ments is in no measure lost as men grow in years;
whereas ability to utter them forcibly is vastly in-
creased by practice. In harmony with this opinion
was his course in regard to Faust, which he took in
hand at the age of twenty, and completed in the
full maturity of three score years and ten.—“Mary
Granger in the Old Curiosity Shop.”


﻿Queen Victoria Witty.—An amusing but
amiable witticism is attributed to the Queen,
which, in its way, is almost good enough to
have been uttered by one of those recog-
nized humorists who have occasionally adorn-
ed thrones. Some one at court had spoken
disparagingly (of course) of the hostile criti-
cisms pronounced by Sir Charles Dilke on
the civil list. “It is strange,” Queen Vic-
toria is said to have replied, “for I remem-
ber having him as a boy on my knee and
stroking his hair. * * * * * * * I
suppose," added her Majesty, after a mo-
ment’s pause, “I must have stroked it the
wrong way.”


The Toronto Globe claims that Canada,
with a population about equal to New Eng-
land, has in its domain 864,635 children an-
nually, while New England has but 17,561.


[Column 1]
			DIVERSIONS.
	THE man question.—What is he worth?
	WHY is a new-born baby like a gale of
wind? Because it begins with a squall.
	WHAT is that which goes from New York
to Albany every day and yet never stirs?—
The turnpike.
	WHAT is the difference between a jewel-
ler and a jailer? One sells watches and the
other watches cells.
	A LITTLE boy asked a lady who made her
teeth."My Creator," she replied. "Well,"
said the youngster, "Dr. —— made my ma's,
and they beat your'n clean out o' sight."
	A LADY having brought a suit to recover
a chignon from a hair-dresser with whom
she had left it for repair, her little boy
wanted to know "if that chignon was what
is called 'hair-at-law?'"
	MARYLAND girls wont marry in the full of
the moon, believing they would have ill-
luck through life, but a Massachusetts girl
wouldn't let forty full moons stop her ten
seconds.
	A YOUNG dandy, who sported an enor-
mous mustache, asked a lady what she
thought of his looks? "Why," said she
"you look as if you had swallowed a pony,
and left the tail sticking out of your
mouth."
	AT a collection recently made at a charity
fair, a lady passed the plate to a very wealthy
man who was well known for his stinginess.
"I have nothing," was his curt reply. "Then
take something, sir," she answered, "You
know I am begging for the poor."
	"Do you enjoy going to church now?,,
asked a lady of Mrs. Partington. "La, me,
I do," replied Mrs. P. Nothing does me so
much good as to get up early on Sunday
morning and go to church, and hear a popu-
lous minister dispense with the gospel."
	"I DON'T like these shoes," said a lady
customer, "because the soles are too thick."
"Is that the only objection?" blandly asked
the salesman. "Yes," was the reply.
"Then, madam, if you take the shoes, I can
assure you that the objection will gradually
wear away."
	THE first Marquis of Huntley, on his first
arrival at court, forgot the usual tribute of
obeisance, and was asked why he did not
bow? He begged his Majesty's pardon, and
excused his want of respect, by saying, he
was just come from a place where everybody
bowed to him.
	"A MEMBER of our Legislature," says an
Ohio paper, "who was on a dead-head excur-
sion out on the plains, lost his pass, and had
to walk seventy miles before he could find a
man who had sufficient confidence in his ap-
pearance to lend him money to telegraph
home to his wife to sell the cooking-stove
and remit him the proceeds at once."
	A SUBURBAN minister applied to a ticket
agent on one of the railroads for a "clergy-
man's ticket," and on the official expressing
a doubt  to his clerical character, exclaim-
ed, "If you don't believe I'm a clergyman,
I'll read you one of my sermons!" The
agent gave him a ticket without insisting
upon the proof.
	SMART reply.—A humorous fellow being
subpoenaed as a witness on a trial for an as-
sault, one of the counsel, who had been no-
torious for brow-beating witnesses, asked
him what distance he was from the parties
when the assault happened; he answered,
"Just four feet five inches and a half."—
[Column 2]
"How came you to be so very exact, fellow?"
said the counsel. "Because I expected some
fool or other would ask me," said he, "so I
measured it."
	A WASHINGTON paper tells this good
story about Hon. S. S. Cox, the irrepressible
Congressman from New York City. The
other day Cox was unusually active, spurty
and irrepressible in the House. He was
continually at the front, "catching on the
fly," and rampaging round generally. Fi-
nally, when the House came to an agreement
to proceed with the debate on the salary bill
in twenty minute speeches, Cox despatched
a page with the following note:
	"Dear Mr. Speaker.—Put me down for
twenty minutes.				S. S. C.
	To which the Speaker replied;
	"Dear Cox.—I would be delighted if I
could keep you down half that time.
J. G, B,"


