PEN AND SCISSORS.
	There is no difficulty where the princi-
ples of action are known to be those of exact
justice, and diffusive benevolence.
	In New York City, single rosebuds cost
twenty-five cents, and carnations twenty
cents. Smilax is sold at one dollar a yard,
and violets by the dozen at twelve cents.
One spray of lilies of the valley costs twen-
ty-five cents.
	If you wanted to teach a person to read,
you would not go to work by depriving
him of all access to books. Be kind, gen-
tle, forbearing as you please, but make every
woman responsible for the performance of
duty, and commence, O men, by doing your
own.
	The late physician to the Emperor of
Russia made a careful study of the effect of
light as a curative agent in the hospital of
St. Petersburg. He discovered that the
number of patients who were cured in rooms
properly lighted was four times as large as
it was when they were confined in dark
rooms.
	“As a man thinketh, so is he.” We see
people nearly every day who consider them-
selves the most unhappy, ill-fated, badly
used people in the world. And certainly
they may be classed among the most miser-
able of the human race, for their wretched
dispositions alone, make them so. Again,
we meet with others who believe that they
are—almost without exception—the most
favored of all God’s creatures. They realize
the peculiar blessings which He bestows up-
on them, and often forget that He may be
doing as great good to their neighbors,
though perhaps in some other way. So, no
matter what their circumstances in life may
be, they still inhabit dwellings among the
most blest of mankind—gratitude and good-
nature place them there.
	The question is asked, how are men to do
business if they must share their receipts
with a wife? But there is no need that they
should share receipts with a wife in that
way. They should appropriate a certain
stated sum to family expenses, which it is
the wife's business to use to the best advan-
tage for the comfort and happiness of the
household. Beyond that it is the man’s
business, as it should be his pleasure, to so
employ his energies as to develop the world’s
resources, increase its wealth, and set the
example of a wise and true use of it, ac-
knowledging always the right of his wife
to a share in the accumulations of his indus-
try, and her prudence in devoting them first
to the enlargment of the comfort and happi-
ness of the family.


