		 WOMAN'S VOICE.

			S. L. CITY, March 20th, 1874.
MRS. RICHARDS:—
	Often when reading the spirited, intelli-
gent letters of our sisters, in your paper, I
have been led to ask, 'why do I not say
something in behalf of the kingdom of God
and its principles, through our worthy EX-
PONENT?' For indeed it is worthy the sup-
port of every good woman, and, I believe,
will shortly be earnestly sustained by a large
portion of the brethren. My husband pro-
nounces it one of the best papers he reads,
and I consider him a good judge; and doubt
not that many of my sisters will concede
that I am right in thus thinking. I feel it
my duty to do all in my power to sustain
this enterprise, and am not afraid to say
that it will flourish, as will every other
good work, supported by the people of God.
This has the most noble of women at its
head,—those who are making bright marks
in our midst, not by carrying out the abomi-
able fashions and customs of the ungodly,
but the true and humble ones in the cause
of right. Sisters, let us all try to be USEFUL
ORANMENTS in the Kingdom of God; and
let the world, and those who choose it and
its practices take the downward course, if
they refuse the precious Gospel and its bless-
ings which are offered without money and
wtihout price, to every one. What joy and
happiness we feel when we know we are
doing right! What purer joy exists on
earth, than that which the little girl feels
when she can look in her mother's face and
meet a tender, loving smile, knowing that
she has done all that was required of her
during the day? She can fall asleep at
night and dream beautiful dreams,and awake
in the morning to begin her joyfull task
again: but, should she forget and trifle with
her mother's counsel, as many children do,
[Column 2]
what is the result? At night, there is no
sweet smile from Mother—and the thought-
ful child goes to bed with a sad heart, not
to be blest with cheering dreams, or to rise
in the morning full of joy to meet the par-
ent whom she has offended. Who among
our young sisters then, would not take the
advice of experience, and love and obey
their dear fathers and mothers who, while
in life, bless and protect them from the
snares of this wicked world? And
when death separates loving hearts, is
it not worth worlds, to know that the dear
ones have gone to plead for their children,
and prepare a home for them in the man-
sions of the blest, while their teachings of
obedience to the principles of the kingdom
of our Father in heaven, are left as the rich-
est of inheritances, for those that love the
Lord! Then, let us each one say, 'However
others may do, as for me, I will seek to do
right, and serve God.' Knowing that when
we do this, we feel contented and have a
sweet influence that whispers peace and
comfort in the midst of earthly trials. And
when the sleep of death comes, what a glo-
rious thought to awaken in the realms of
the sanctified, and enjoy the society of the
noble, just and truo that have gone before 
