WHICH?

	The following beautiful poem is intended for the fam-
ily circle. It is founded upon an incident where a rich
neighbor offered to make a poor family comfortable, and
provide for the child, if one of seven were given to him.
Some one who has doubtless felt the pangs of poverty,
and yet been a parent, with all the accompanying deep
and holy feelings, has clothed it in poetical attire, and
breathed into it a spirit of love, devotion and faith that
will find a holy response in the breast of every father
and mother.

		"Which shall it be; Which shall it be?"
		I looked at John—John looked at me:
		(Dear patient John, who loves me yet,
		As well as though my locks were jet.)
		And when I found that I must speak,
		My voice seemed strangely low and weak;
		"Tell me again what Robert said!"
		And then I listening bent my head.
		"This is his letter:
							"I will give
		A house and land while you shall live.
		If, in return, from out of your seven,
		One child to me for aye is given."
		I looked at John's old garments worn,
		I thought of all that John had borne;
		Of poverty, and work, and care,
		Which I, though willing, could not share;
		I thought of seven mouths to feed,
		Of seven little children's need,
		And then of this.
						"Come, John," said I,
		"We'll choose among them as they lie
		Asleep;" so walking hand in hand,
		Dear John and I surveyed our band.
		First to the cradle lightly stepped,
		Where Lillian the baby slept;
		Her bright locks lay in pallid light,
		A glory 'gainst the pillow white;
		Softly the father stooped to lay
		His rough hand down in loving way,
		When dream or whisper made her stir,
		And huskily he said, "Not her!"
		We stooped beside the trundle-bed,
		And one long ray of lamplight shed
		Athwart the boyish faces there,
		In sleep so pitiful and fair;
		I saw on Jamie's rough, red cheek,
		A tear undried. Ere John could speak,
		"He's but a baby too," said I,
		And kissed him as we hurried by.
		Pale, patient Robbie's angel face,
		Still in his sleep bore suffering's trace,
		"Not for a thousand crowns, not him,"
		He whispered, while our eyes were dim.
		Poor Dick! bad Dick! our wayward son,
		Turbulent, restless, idle one—
		Could he be spared? "Nay, he who gave,
		Bade us befriend him to the grave;
		Only a mother's heart could be
		Patient enough for such as he,
		And so," said John, "I would not dare
		To send him from her bed-side prayer."
		Then stole we softly up above,
		And knelt by Mary, child of love.
		"Perhaps for her 'twould better be,"
		I said to John. Quite silently
		He lifted up a curl that lay
		Across her cheek in willful way,
		And shook his head. "Nay love, not thee."
		The while my heart beat audibly.
		Then Bess, our second daughter bright,
		Whose dimpled fingers, small and white,
		Whose sylph like form and seraph grace,
		But matched the beauty of her face;
		And these th'external counter-part
		of her gay, guileless, generous heart;
		Coquettish, even in her plays—
		So born, with winsome, coaxing ways:
		"It would not do for her," John said,
		"Temptations wily path to tread."
		Only one more, our eldest lad,
		Trusty and truthful, good and glad—
		So like his father. "No, John, no—
		I cannot, will not let him go!"
		And so we wrote in courteous way,
		WE COULD NOT drive one child away.
		And afterward toil lighter seemed,
		Thinking of that of which we dreamed;
		Happy in truth that not one face
		We missed from its accustomed place;
		Thankful to work for all the seven,
		Trusting the rest to One in Heaven!


The sufferings from the famine in India
continue to increase. The Government will
be obliged to maintain 3,000,000 persons
for three months. The expenditure for the
sufferers amount, so far, to $7,500,000.


The following circular has been handed
to us for publication:
