	       HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	The Home of Taste.—How easy it is to 
be neat—to be clean! How easy to arrange
the rooms with the most graceful propriety!
How easy it is to invest our houses with the
truest elegance! Elegance resides not with
the upholsterer or the draper; it exists in 
the spirit presiding over the apartments of
the dwelling. Contentment must always
be most grateful; it sheds serenity over the
scene of its abode; it transforms a waste in-
to a garden. The home lighted by those 
imitations of a nobler and brighter life may
be wanting in much which the discontented
desire, but to its inhabitants it will be a pal-
ace, far outvying the Oriental in brilliancy
and beauty.
	In these days of canned fruits, sauces are
always ready. Fill empty cans toward
spring with sweet apples. They are nice
with a few raisins or spiced lemons.
	Apple Short-cakes.—Make a rich cake of
sour cream, saleratus and enough flour to
roll out; bake, split open and spread on
stewed apples, sugar, butter, and nutmeg.
	Bridgeport Cake.—One cup of butter, two
of sugar, three and one half of flour, two of
currants, one of sour milk, four eggs, one
teaspoonful of soda, juice and grated rind of
one lemon.
	Mucilage of Gum-arabic—According to
R: Rother, the following formula affords a
mucilage which will keep in the hottest
weather:—Gum-arabic, 12 troy ounces; gly-
cerine, 8 fluid ounces; water 16 fluid ounces.
	We sometimes find our store of pickles
growing too small towards spring, and it is
rather a poor time to replenish them; but
apple pickles are about as good as any, judg-
ing from the way people eat them. Pare
and halve the apples, removing the cores
carefully to keep them in good shape,
Steam them and remove to a jar. Heat
spiced vinegar and pour over them.
	Lemon Pie.—Three eggs, three lemons,
three tablespoonfuls of corn starch, three cups
of sugar, one quart of boiling water, and a
little salt. Wet the starch first in cold wa-
ter, then add slowly the hot water; roll the
lemons, cut them open and squeeze out the
juice, peel out the pulp and cut fine. Do
not use the rind. Add the juice and pulp
to the sugar and starch. Beat the eggs and
add them last. This will make five pies
with two crusts each.
	Antidote for Poison.—If a person swallows
any poison whatever, or has fallen into con-
vulsions from having overloaded the stom-
[Column 2]
ach, an instantaneous remedy, more efficient
and applicable in a large number of cases
than any half a dozen medicines we can now
think of,is a heaping teaspoon full of common
salt, and as much ground mustard, stirred
rapidly in a cup of water, warm or cold, and
swallowed instantly. It is scarcely down
before it begins to come up, bringing with
it the remaining contents of the stomach,
and lest there be any remnant of a poison,
however small, let the white of an egg, or a 
teacup of strong coffee, be swallowed as soon
as the stomach is quiet: because these very
common articles nullify a larger number of
virulent poisons than any medicines in the
shops.
	Buckwheat Cakes.—Take 4 tablespoonfuls
of hop yeast, 4 cups of tepid water, nearly
4 cups of buckwheat flour, sifted, and a little
salt. Measure the flour after sifting, or they
will be too thick. Mix in a stone jar, and if
desired for breakfast, let them stand over
night in a warm place to rise, and when
light fry as other griddle cakes. Leave
about a teacupful of batter in the jar, and
add water, salt and flour as before, omitting
the yeast. The second and third mess will
be better than the first. Use no saleratus
in these cakes. If they should become sour
cleanse the jar thoroughly and start again
with yeast. Be sure to keep the jar in a cool
place after the batter begins to rise, or it
will become sour. These cakes are delicious
with nice butter and honey. Very nice
apple griddle cakes are made as above,
only substituting good wheat flour for buck-
wheat, and when ready to fry, stirring gen-
tly among them a quantity of sliced, mel-
low apples (not too acid.)


[Column 1]
