		  ﻿FLORAL HINTS.

	Our friends who are interested in the de-
lightful pursuit of raising flowers, will find
pleasurable, and doubtless, profitable read-
ing in the selections we propose to offer
from time to time, under the above head.
We also respectfully solicit contributions
from home writers who are capable of giv-
ing information on this subject, suitable to
the practice of floriculture in Utah.
	Sweet-peas should be put into the ground
early, as they will bear the wind and weath-
er, Make a circle round a pole, or some ob-
ject to which they may cling as they rise;
put the peas into the earth an inch deep,
having previously soaked them well. Add
an outer circle every month, so that a con-
tinual bloom may appear. The circle first
sown will ripen and pod for seed in the cen-
tre, while the outer vines will continue

[Column 2]
flowering until late in autumn. When you
have gathered a sufficient number of ripe
pods, cut away all the pods which may
afterward form.
"Every Lady her own Flower Gardener."
	House plants ought to be gently stimulta-
ted once or twice a week. Rain water, so re-
freshing to summer flowers, always contains
ammonia, which also a bounds in all liquid
manures. Take an ounce of pulverized
ammonia, dissolved in one gallon of wa-
ter; it will make spring water even
more stimulating to young plants than rain
water. Keep the soil in the flower pots
loose.––"Field and Factory.
	If our readers knew how easily the White
Water Lily (Nymphia Odorate) could be
cultivated, we believe that very many of
them would be quite as proud of their lily
gardens as of any other portion of their
premises. The roots having been pro-
cured in the fall were kept damp during the
ensuing winter, in flower pots. In the
spring a tub was made by sawing a substan-
tial barrel into, and this, duly painted green,
was set on brick, put in the garden, and one-
third filled with mixture of garden soil,
sand and well rotted manure, The roots
were set in this mixture, water was added
in small quantities, and at intervals of a day
or two, and so gently as not to disturb the
earth, until the tub was filled. Very soon
the handsome round leaves, four or five
inches in diameter, made their appearance
and filled the tub. The loss of water by
evaporation was made good from time to
time, and ere long the blossoms appeared
and delighted every one with their beauty.
	When cold weather came the water was
allowed to dry off almost entirely, and when
it was thus nearly gone, the tub with its
contents, was placed in the cellar and water-
ed at long intervals through the winter. In
the spring the roots were separated, and
about half the increase returned to the same
tub, in a fresh mixture of earth, and they
are now brought out earlier than before,
about April 1st and blossom yet more pro-
fusely. The pure white flowers were as
perfect as the camelia, and delightfully fra-
grant, closing in the night and re-opening
in the morning as is the wont of Water
Lilies. The blossoms were about two inches
in diameter, not quite so large as some of
the specimens in the pond whence these
roots were first taken, but not less beautiful
nor less fragrant.—“Flower Garden.”


[Column 1]
		FACTS AND FIGURES.
	It is estimated that the population of New
Orleans is 239,985.
	Miss Hannah Drury has bought a 2220 acre
plantation in North Carolina.
	A 299-year old newspaper of Stockholm,
Sweden, circulates 15,000 copies daily.
	Many negroes who left Georgia for Missis-
sippi are returning to their old homes.
	"John Smith" of Chicago has sent $600
to the United States Treasurer's Conscience
Fund.
	According to an Ohio mathematician, one
man dies from the use of alcohol every sev-
en minutes.
[Column 2]
	A club of farmers in Chesterfield, Ill., takes
$100 worth of magazines and newspapers
annually.
	A New Jersey man claims a clear profit
on seventy chickens and nineteen ducks,
last year, of $77.
	Five districts in Chester County, Pennsyl-
vania, have elected women to the office of
school directors.
	A tract of land in Missouri containing 40,
000 acres has been bought for a party of
French emigrants.
	There is trouble in the Kansas Agricul-
tural College. Three professors have been
retired by the Board of Regents. The stu-
dents are indignant.
	Minnesota is losing the Scandinavian em-
migration, which is drifting to Kansas, Ne-
braska and Colorado.
	President Grant recommends liberal ap-
propriations by congress of the Philadelphia
Centennial Exposition.
	Upward of 2,500 men have deserted from
the army while stationed in the Pacific States
and Territories since 1871.
	A Mississippi legislator introduced a bill
prohibiting the sale of liquor within five
miles of the State University.
	Mr. Ruskin advocates the purchase by the
National Gallery of a splendid Madonna by
Raphael. The cost will be £40,000.
	Mrs. Sarah E. Beard, Fayetteville, N. Y.,
has given $5000 to Hamilton College as a
fund for the aid of needy students.
	The proudest man in the United States is
in Montgomery, Pa. He carried off 42 pre-
miums at the Doylston Poultry Show.
	Yale College is to have a new chapel, a
plain, but substantial stone structure, seat-
ing 1,200 persons, and costing $120,000.
	A movement to celebrate the Centennial
by a grand exposition in Washington, to be
confined to the United States, is talked of.
	Mr. Gerrett Smith has given, free of con-
ditions, the sum of $10,000 for the benefit of
Hamilton College, of which he is a graduate.
	The Queen, at the recommendation of
Gladstone, has granted a pension of $1,000
per annum to the children of Dr. Living-
stone.
	The statue of Mr. Seward will be shipped
to New York in the spring of 1875. It will
cost $25,000 nearly all of which has been
subscribed.
	Some of the New Hampshire Patrons of
Husbandry are buying flour at $8.25 per bbl.
by the car-load, whereas they had to pay $11
per bbl. for the same article at retail.
	Robert W. Scott of Kentucky states that
he has sold the wool of Angora goats through
the agency of several New York commission
merchants at from 60c. to $1.25 per pound.
	At a recent exhibition in Zanesville, Ohio,
a wedding-dress worn in 1788 was exhibited.
The waist was about two inches long, but
what astonished the ladies most was that
the dress contained only two and a half
yards of silk.


