SPLINTERS.

	The idea is gaining grounds that the fre-
quent use of fish as diet is promotive of
brain power......Gilt and silver buttons for
collars and cuffs, fastening with a spring, are
becoming popular......Two of the gentlemen
composing a Committee of the Common
Council of Boston, to nominate candidates
for Overseers of the Poor, recommend the
appointment of women to such offices......
Disraeli and Sir S. Northcote have been re-
elected to Parliament without opposition.....
Wire netting is being introduced as a sub-
stitute for lath. It is considered better than
lath as it requires less labor is more con-
tinuous and is fire-proof......Dr. Decaisne of
Paris protests against the drinking of blood
as a cure for invalids, pronouncing it equally
absurd and disgusting. We should think 
so......Immigrant wagons from Iowa were
crossing the Missouri river on the ice as late
as March 14th......Considerable excitement
has been occasioned from cinnabar being
discovered near Carson Nevada......Report
says, every white man who marries a squaw,
in the Indian Territory is given 100 acres of 
land......Church property is taxed in Texas
.....Nilsson, Capoul and many others were to
sing at a concert given in March, by a com-
mittee of young ladies, in aid of the build-
ing fund of the Young Ladies' Christian
Association of New York......Oliver Ames
has been elected president, and E. H. Rol-
lins Secretary of the U. P. R. R. Co.......The 
largest rose-bush in America is at Santa
Rosa, Cal.......There are thirty-four cotton
mills in Georgia......Mrs. B. H. Conway of
Fredrick County, Md., is a prominent railroad
contractor......In Southern Indiana the wal-
nut timber is nearly exhausted......Barnett,
Vt., is proud of a young resident named
Nelson, who has spelled down three school
districts four times........On Dunn's Lake,
Florida, Jamaica ginger is extensively cul-
tivated......Santa Anna is seventy-six years
old, and he is going to Mexico, the land of
his birth and early glories, to spend his re-
maining days......Florida gets most of her
butter from Ohio.....Methodism in India,
as elsewhere, it is said, is becoming noted
for its singing......It is estimated that over
14,500,000 children are of school age in this
country......A daughter of the Earl of Gains-
borough, married her music teacher, came
to this country and now resides in Virginia,
where she is known as Mrs. Blanche Mur-
phy.........In Amador County, Cal., a pure
quality of Alum is found in large quantities
in the form of incrustations on the rocks.....
The Legislature of Georgia has repealed all
acts authorizing the granting or loaning of
the State's credit to railroad companies.......
In Troy. N. Y., saloon keepers issue invita-
tions and provide free lunches for the tem-
perance ladies......A new life-boat, called
"The Petrel," has been invented by Mr.
Chapman, an English gentleman........The
remains of Dr. Livingstone, it is reported,
will be transported from Africa to England
at public expense......During a late storm,
the steamship "Sedra" was lost on the way
from Newcastle to Port Said, and thirty per-
sons were drowned.


