			NEW CLUB RATES.
	Determined that nothing shall be wanting on the
pat of the Publishers, to increase the circulation of
the EXPONENT and aid in promoting the objects con-
templated in its publication, by making it truly an
exponent of the views of the women of Utah, sus-
tained by them, read by them, and its columns
enriched with a widely circulated expression of their
thoughts, we offer the following terms to clubs, so as
to prepare for increasing the value and importance of
the paper with the beginning of the next volume,
which a larger subscription list will enable us to do
19 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
	up of the club 		-	-	-	-	$18 00
15 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club		-	-	-	-	26 00
20 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club and a framed steel engrav-
ing, 12x16 inches, of President Brigham 
Young, selling price, $2 50	-	-	34 00	
30 copies. 1 year, with a copy to the getter
up of the club, and a superior first proof,
steel engraving of President Brigham
Young, handsomely framed, selling
price $4		-	-	-	-			48 00
	Clubs can be commenced at any time; and addi-
tions can be made after the first list of names has
been sent.
Money can be remitted by registered letter at the
risk of the publishers.
	We hope ladies throughout the Territory, especial-
ly the Presidents and Secretaries of Relief Societies
will endeavor to get up clubs, and that they will con-
stitute themselves agents for the extension of the
circulation of the EXPONENT.


SUCCESS in Life.—The men who com-
mence their career under the most favorable
auspices, and the most flattering prospects
of success, do not always obtain the emi-
nence they seek. The race is not always to
the swift, nor the battle to the strong. There
is a certain ordeal which all men must un-
dergo in their passage through life; and it
is very questionable whether he succeeds
the best who commences under the most ap-
parently advantageous circumstances. There
is such a thing as a man depending too much
upon his means, and too little upon himself
—small certainties, it has been observed, are
often the ruin of man.—Jameson.


Woman's Exponent
