us!					E. F. THOMAS.

		SMITHFIELD, March 14th, 1874.
MRS. L. GREENE RICHARDS:—
	This is a beautiful morning, warm and
bright and pleasant, but your correspondent
not feeling first-rate either in body or mind,
concluded, by way of “courting sunshine”
to sit down and address a line to you. Doubt-
less you are aware that when the heart is
a little o’er burdened with care, the mind
restive and anxious, one of the best meth-
ods for producing quiescence, is to pick up a
pen and begin writing. Not hastily, so that
you merely give vent to your unpleasant
feelings by putting them down on paper— 
thus aggravating instead of correcting them;
but writing thoughtfully, carefully, in a
manner that one could feel conscientiously
self-justified in adopting, even in the pres-
ence of angels.
	We have had a long, heavy winter here, 
and I begin to feel almost impatient for the
snow and frost to quit the earth, and let the
sun warm and prepare it for the labors of
the husbandman and the reception of seeds
and plants. You know I must have my
little flower-garden if there is the laest 
chance for such a thing, wherever I am.
	I feel thankful now, to be where I can go
to meeting and have the society of Saints. 
And wherever my lot may be cast, I desire
one thing, and that is to live my Religion 
day-by-day. I am glad to see your paper
improving, and sincerely hope it will continue
to shed forth light both at home and abroad;
and that it may help prove to the ignorant
and benighted, that those who speak evil of
Zion, are bringing themselves under con-
demnation before the Almighty Judge.
	God bless you always and keep you in His
gracious care. Affectionately,
                                                       S. K. G.


MARIE Verdin, a girl 18 years of age, is
attracting the attention of the medical fac-
ulty of Paris. She is afflicted with a strange
infirmity known as "nyctalope," that is, los-
ing the faculty of sight when the sun is
above the horizon, and regaining it in the
night-time. During the day Mlle. Verdin
is obliged to keep her eyes closed and to
wear a thick veil. But in utter darkness
she can see so as to read and write with per-
fect ease.


