MEMORIAL TO CONGRESS.

	The following extract from the “Congres-
sional Record,” of Feb. 17th, will be inter-
esting to those who have not read it before.
	“Mr. Cannon, of Utah. I present a me-
morial of the Legislative Assembly of Utah
Territory, asking for a commission of inves-
tigation to be sent to Utah to inquire into
all alleged abuses in affairs there. I ask
that the memorial be read.
	The memorial was read as follows:
	We, your Memorialists, the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, respect-
fully represent that, whereas a large majori-
ty of the people of this Territory are accus-
ed of disloyalty, insubordination, and other
violations of the Constitution, and laws of
the United States; and, whereas these ac-
cusations are absolutely untrue, and are
made with malicious intent to procure pro-
scriptive legislation by Congress.
	Therefore, being anxious that legislation,
if upon thorough investigation any should
be deemed necessary, should be such as will
conduce to the greatest good of all, we re-
spectfully and earnestly solicit your honor-
able body to send to Utah a commission of
investigation, with instructions to inquire
into all the alleged abuses in our Territorial
affairs, and with authority to send for per-
sons and papers needed in the prosecution
of their inquiries.
	And we further respectfully ask your
honorable body, for the protection of what
we deem the best interests of the whole
people of the Territory, to suspend all ac-
tion, so far as special legislation for Utah is
concerned, until such time as said commis-
sion shall have had opportunity to investi-
gate and report. And for a course so con-
ducive to wise, and consequently beneficial,
legislation action we, your memorialists,
will ever pray.
	Mr. Cannon, of Utah.—I move that the
memorial be referred to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
	Mr. Merriam.—I think it ought to go to
the Committee on the Territories.
	The Speaker.—The Chair thinks the
points presented in the memorial are judi-
cial in their character.
	Mr. Cannon, of Utah.—I desire that it
shall go to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and have made that motion.
	Mr. Merriam.—I would like a vote on
that.  I think it is very important that this
should go to the Committee on the Territo-
ries and I move to amend the motion of
the gentleman from Utah by substituting
the Committee on the Territories.
	The question being put on Mr. Merriam’s
amendment, there were—ayes 42, noes not
counted.
	So the amendment was not agreed to.
	The memorial was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and ordered to be
printed.
	Mr. Sargent of California, presented the
same memorial in the Senate, on Feb. 18th,
and it was referred to the Judiciary Com-
mittee.


EVERY-DAY Exaggerations.—“I am tired
to death.” So you have said often, and are
alive still, and in good health too. “I had
not a wink of sleep all night.” And yet
your bed-fellow heard you snore several
times. “I would not do it for the world.”
And yet you have done many things equally
bad for a penny. “We were up to our
knees in mud.” You know very well the
dirt was not over your shoes.


[Column 1]
				﻿[For the Exponent
GOVERNMENT, PEOPLE AND
		PRIVILEGES.
	A government, we understand to be a
Regulation, an Executive power; and some
form of executive power must exist among
the children of men for their well being, as
almost any regulation is better than confu-
sion. But it seems that God, Himself fa-
vors some systems over others, for we read
in Holy Writ that He wished His chosen
Israel to be guided by Judges or courts of
equity; but it appears that they could not
bear to be set so far in advance of their age
and murmured until God, in His anger, gave
them a king. They could not realize the
grandeur and vastness of the plan from
which they thus turned away, and which
was left to be developed by later generations.
The very fact that God offered it to His cho-
sen people proves it, without the testimony
of experience, better than Monarchy,
	There should be little need to advocate
Republican institutions before the people of
this country, but I should like to ask what
is a republic? Is it a government BY THE
PEOPLE? Then who are the Rulers? Judg-
ing only by the definition given of a Repub-
lic, one would say the people rule; but in
common speech, the men called, chosen and
sent by the people to manipulate the machi-
nery of government, and paid in dollars and
cents, from the people’s money, are called
“Rulers.” But according to this precedent,
the hired workman in a manufactory is the
head of the firm and the hired cook or house-
keeper, the head of the house.
	However, some maintain that the people
rule, because they have power to appoint
the way—I believe they call it “platform”
on which their paid agents shall walk; and
I am disposed to think these are right or at
least, they should be.
	Then, the next question which presents
itself is Who are the People? That is a
stupid question, for any child can tell you
that the men, women and children who live
permanently in any country, are the people
of that country.
	MEN, WOMEN and CHILDREN! each and
all three indispensible to the existence and
interests of a people! Man, the right hand,
woman, the left, and child the dear object
for which they both toil. Or, man the founda-
tion, woman the wall and child the roof of
the social superstructure, crowning both, but
resting more immediately on the wall,
woman; though neither could stand without
the support of the sturdy foundation, man.
	I am aware that this figure of speech
places the child above both parents, and that
is my intention; because the world yearly
grows riper and rises in the scale of intelli-
gence, and even as we inherit the garnered
wisdom of the past, so will the children be
richer for every step we can take in the
grand march of improvement; and just so
far as they have better land marks in life,
will they be above us. My smile also marks
the welfare and interests of the human
trinity, one and inseparable; for if roof, wall
or foundation be wanting, of what possible
value can the others be?
	He is not the greatest statesman who in-
augurates the most imposing ceremonies,
displays the most glittering pageantry or
lifts himself to the most giddy height; but
he who looks farthest beyond his own brief
day to the time when his children and his
children’s children shall engage in life’s
busy warfare; he who lays the deepest
foundation under, and rears the most un-
yielding walls around knowledge, sobriety
and progress; thus leaving behind him the

[Column 2]
brightest example of pure, unselfish patriot-
ism and liberal views.
	And the very first step in that direction
must be to live to the letter and the spirit
of our fundamental principle of “Equal
rights for all.” Let each individual find
his proper station in life by his innate ten-
dencies and powers; not by any accident of
birth or station. Keep not millions of Af-
ricans in bondage because they are not
white, nor millions of sisters in equal sub-
serviency because they are not brothers.
	The world seems to gather impetus in its
course, and reforms tread faster upon each
other than formerly. The nation has scarcely
ceased panting from the exertion of freeing
its black children from their shackles, when
lo! its daughters hold up their manacled
hands and plead to have their fetters, also,
broken. The sons cry out in direst amaze-
ment, “THESE are NOT fetters, but the costly
bracelets which we gave them, to make
them more beautiful in our eyes! They in
bondage! They are our idols, gems who
rule over us by the power of their beauty,
their grace and all their little clinging, ca-
ressing, timid ways!”
	Is this so, gentlemen? Even if it is, you
ignore such as have no beauty, are not tim-
id and clinging nor skilled to flatter; but
even passing by this grave omission and
considering only those mentioned who do
possess these qualifications, let us see, with-
out desiring to question the purity of your
convictions or the kindness of your inten-
tions, how far facts will bear out your state-
ment. Let us examine the quality of the
allegiance you pay your pretty sovereigns.
	The lady must live in this world some
fifteen or twenty years before she comes in-
to full possession of those royal prerogatives
by which she is to maintain her despotism.
And how does she fare, meanwhile? Not
just as her future subject does. He is dress-
ed in a way that does not impede his move-
ments nor occupy his attention. He is al-
lowed to live much in the open air, run,
shout, whistle, wrestle, stand on head or
heels at his own sweet will. Thus he builds
up for himself those strong muscles and
nerves, that vigor of body and mind which
in after years are his boast and the grounds
of his self-asserted SUPERIORITY.
	SHE must be dressed so that she will look
pretty, whether she is comfortable or not.
She must live mostly indoors for fear of em-
browning that fair face which is her strong-
est claim to future sovereignty.(?) She
must not take boisterous exercise nor make
a loud noise, because these are not ladylike;
but if her lungs are weak, her muscles feeble
or her information concerning the common
objects of nature and art very limited, so
much gained, because all these ARE lady-
like.
	What exercise she does take, must be in
picking up things after her brother, making
his bed, darning his stockings or cooking his
dinner, besides doing all these things for
herself; and although he is too young to ap-
preciate and reciprocate her little services,
trust me, he is not too young to revel in his
freedom and secretly, if not openly despise
her—as all free creatures do confined ones—
for her imprisonment. And be sure this is
a lesson much more easily learned, than un-
learned.
	When they begin to study, he is encour-
aged, urged, almost compelled to delve
deeply into all solid sciences; not only math-
ematics and astronomy, natural history and
chemistry, but financial and political econo-
my, the laws of his country and the history,
policy and destiny of nations.
	She is expected to learn style in dress and


[Column 1]
manners, singing, dancing and a smattering
of some foreign tongue, besides the lesson
of “sweet dependence;” and so far from be-
ing urged to persue those deep and satis-
factory studies, she is ridiculed, blamed and
even persecuted if she attempts it. Then
her pampered brothers, ignoring all this,
taunt her all her days with her "intellectu-
al inferiority."
	By the time they get only started on the
stair of intellectual cultivation, she is ex-
pected, while he continues climbing, to
abandon it forever, to don those jeweled
handcuffs, bracelets, those shining badges of
slavery, ear-rings, together with the whole
bewildering array of pretty(?) things,and re-
port herself in the matrimonial MARKET. 
	The very word implies a degradation, but,
thanks to her careful education, she does
not know it; she is docile and does what is
expected of her gracefully. For the sake
of that "fellow feeling which makes us
wonderous kind," I decline to mention the
numberless tricks and arts which she is
taught and often uses to attract attention;
and look upon her again when she is "settled
in life," a wife, a mother, the idol and sov-
ereign of some poor, subjugated man's heart
and life.
	In the first place, did we not see her, we
should not recognize her as the same; be-
cause—perhaps to evince her supremacy—
she renounced her own name, at marriage,
and now wears her husband’s. However,
rather than have confusion in children’s
names, I am disposed to consent to that
sacrifice, even though, because of it, her
father gave her less of his property than he
did her brothers. He wishing to aggran-
dize his name among his fellow men.
	The portion she did inherit, by virtue of
her marriage, became her husband’s, and he
is now sole master of it—not joint owrner,
but sole owner. Now if this, were recip-
rocal—if that same ceremony placed her in
possession of his property, it might be en-
durable; but even then I fail to see any
beauty in it.
	But that is not the case. He is owner of
all during his life, and at his death, he may
give, by will, to others two thirds of all his
possessions, leaving her only one third.
And even without a will, if he die childless
his relatives may, according to law, claim
two thirds of his property even if all were
hers before marriage, or earned by her after
marraige.
	And this is another rule which works only
one way. If she die first she may not be-
queath even her one third. Some States
however, have very lately passed laws to
the effect that a wife may bequeath her
third, provided—she first obtains her HUS-
BAND'S WRITTEN CONSENT; which amounts
to simply this: The law mildly recommends
the husband to give away certain property,
just to please a departing wife.
	Then again, her body, this very conve-
nient framework of flesh, blood and bones
which she inherited at her birth by the di-
vine right of her humanity, is no longer
hers. She may not use it as she pleases,
but as he pleases; and rebellion against his
supreme will in this matter is so severely
condemned by law, that many divorces
have been granted to husbands on this com-
plaint alone. Think of it, dear sisters, your
persons are not yours but your husband’s
and so far from having exchanged your own
for theirs, they own both themselves and
you.
	But that is not the worst yet, for she is
a mother. That beloved child whose fragile
life she nourished with her own through
months of pain and suffering, and which,
possibly without one ray of sympathy, one

[Column 2]
gentle word, one expression of tender solici-
tude for her welfare, she brought into the
world—this sweet bud of promise is not her
own. 						L. L. D.
