		904 WALNUT STREET.

Appeal of the Executive Committee of the Woman's
  Auxiliary Centennial Commission to the Women of
			the United States.
		PHILADELPHIA, July 4th, 1873.
	The International Exhibition of 1876 is
designed to commemorate our National In-
dependence.
	While it seems natural that the spot where
the nation drew its first breath, should be
the point selected by Congress for the proper
celebration of the One Hundredth Anniver-
sary of its existence, it seems also fitting
that Philadelphia should take the initiative
in organizing a systematic plan of work.
	Having this plan in view, the Citizens'
Centennial Finance Committee appointed in
February last, an Executive Committee of
thirteen women—with power to add to their
number if necessary. Their appointment
was confirmed by the Executive Committee
of the Centennial Commission, and their
work approved by the Commission itself,
during its session in this city in May last,
when the formation of similar organizations
throughout the Union was recommended.
	The Woman's Executive Committee
selected a woman in each ward in Philadel-
phia, to act as Chairman of a Committee of
not more than thirty-six women, whose
duty it is to arouse the interest of all in the
success of the Exhibition. The shares are
Ten Dollars each, payable in easy instal-
ments.
	We, members of the Woman's Executive
Committee whose names are hereto append-
ed, now seek the co-operation of the Women
of America, that similar organizations may
be begun, improved upon, and carried to
perfection, in every Village, Township, City
and County in all the States and Territories
of the Union. And in asking this aid and
this interest, we appeal to our sisters
throughout the United States, first on the
ground of patriotism.
	Every good woman desires that her Coun-
try should hold a prominent place in the
family of Nations. Although it may be
that in many respects we are faulty as a
Nation, it is only by contact with others
that we can hope to have our faults correct-
ed. This Exhibition will bring to our
shores, men and women, from all countries,
who, while they may point to our defects,
will carry away with them a proper regard
for what is great and good among us, and
thus promote a feeling of respect for us in
lands where Americans are now, too often
regarded as semi-barbarians.
	Conscious as we may be, that American
women enjoy greater privileges than are ac-
corded to women in any other land, let us
enter on our work, carrying with us the
thought of our blessings. Let us feel as if
it is the birthday of our mother that we are
about to celebrate—a mother with whom
some of us cannot hope to live long. Or,
our land is yet so young, we may almost
imagine that our son will reach his majority
in 1876, and we must help to light the bon-
fires in his honor.
	We would also urge upon the serious con-
sideration of our women, the great advan-
tages to be derived for our sex through this
Exhibition. Through it, women will be
found to possess business qualifications
which may be usefully called forth; the
value of their labour will be raised, and
many who are now struggling for their daily
bread, may be enabled to obtain for them-
selves remunerative positions, by which
they may earn a comfortable livelihood.
[Column 2]
	Every subscription that is gathered will be
but another stone added to the building of
the pedestal on which the American Woman
is destined, through her work, to stand; and
in helping ourselves, we shall help the
women in other lands, where now it is not
uncommon to see a woman and a cow har-
nessed together to a plough and a man
driving them.
	Actuated, then, by our love for our land,
and our ambition for our sex, we go forth
doubly armed to make the exhibition of '76
a grand success. Some may say that the
exhibition will merely affect the interests of
Philadelphia, but this is not so. Just as the
Declaration of Independence brought free-
dom to all the States, so will this Exhibition
bring high consideration for each State in
the Union. Each signer of that precious
document did not insist upon returning to
his own State, there to affix his signature.
It was given here for the welfare of all; and
here shall the products of each State be
brought gladly by her children; while here
for the honour of all shall these commem-
orative ceremonies be held.
	It is true we all have a certain sort of State
pride, which is natural and commendable.
Massachusetts is deaf to the noise of her
shuttles and looms, or finds sweet music in
them. Pennsylvania thinks the soot of her
mines becoming to the complexion of her
people. South Carolina is proud of her
many cotton fields, and Louisiana finds noth-
ing so sweet as her sugar-cane. The West
rejoices, first, in her prairies, and then in the
iron belts which girdle them. But what
citizen from any State is insensible to a feel-
ing of pride on beholding the Capitol at
Washington? And yet the immediate ad-
vantages derived from that Capitol belong
only to those who live in the District of Col-
umbia.
	Which of us can see the harbor of New
York and not feel glad that it is ours, while
the proud pleasure of actually possessing it
belongs only to the citizens of New York.
	Whatever motives actuate us, let us work
together with a will. To you, Chairmen of
State Committees, who will fan our spark
into a flame, we look for help. To you and
to your aids will belong the honour of what-
ever is done. We are ready to aid you in
this, our National Work. When you are
organizing your Committees, if any word of
ours will help or cheer, we stand ready to
go to you at your call. We are one with
you. It may not fall to the lot of all of us
to see that one hundredth anniversary of our
National Independence, but let us pray God
not only for a blessing on our work, but that
those of us who remain on that day, may
have the joy of feeling that throughout these
years all has gone pleasantly in our inter-
course with each other, and that in '76 we
shall have earned the reward which comes
from the faithful performance of any duty,
while at the same time we will have proved
ourselves able coadjutors in this great and
important mission.
	Mrs. E. D. Gillespie, President, 250 S.
21st Street; Mrs. John Sanders, Vice-Presi-
dent, 410 South 15th St.; Mrs. J. Edgar
Thompson, Treasurer, 18th & Spruce Sts.;
Mrs. Aubrey H. Smith, Secretary, 1516 Pine
Street; Miss McHenry, 1902 Chestnut St.;
Mrs. Charles J. Stille, 1505 Walnut Street;
Miss Elizabeth Gratz, 1409 Locust Street;
Mrs, John W. Forney, 618 S. Washington
Square; Mrs. Emily R. Buckman, 567 North
16th. Street; Mrs. Richard P. White, 2113
Pine Street; Mrs. Henry Cohen, 1828 S.
Rittenhouse Square; Mrs. Matthew Simp-
son, 1807 Mount Vernon St.; Mrs. A. H.
Franciscus, 1529 Arch Street.


