HOME AFFAIRS.

	OGDEN COMMEMORATED St. Patrick's day by a
grand ball at the Junction Hotel.
	A PLANK side walk has been put down in
front of the Post Office; an improvement wor-
thy of notice in these times of slush and mud.
	ST. PATRICK’S day, March. 17th, passed with-
out any public celebration in this city. The
cause has been assigned to the unusually severe
snow storm.
	THE FREIGHTING of ore over the Wasatch
and Jordan Valley railroad has been increasing
lately. This line has a fair prospect for doing a
large business during the coming summer.
	THE HORTICULTURAL Society, a short time
since discussed the question as to which kinds of
trees are the most suited for shade trees in this
climate. They decided that the best sorts for
general cultivation here, are the honey locust,
mulberry, box elder and black walnut.
	OWNERS OF city lots should take advantage
of the present time to clean out or make water
ditches in front of their property, thus prepar-
ing for the abundance of water likely to result
from the melting snows, and also contributing
to the neat appearance of our city.
	THE OGDEN Junction strongly advocates the
necessity and benefit of a public library and
reading room for that city; also the erecting of
a good lecture-hall. An Ogden City Library
Association has been organized and formed
the nucleus for a library but it needs general
encouragement and support to become a success.


[Column 1]	
	THE PEOPLE of Logan, have been energetic
during the past winter season notwithstanding
its severity, in preparing to push forward the
work on their new Tabernacle when the fine
weather opens. Several thousand tons of rock
and a large quantity of sand have been hauled,
about enough, it is believed, for the foundation
and walls.
	THE FALL of snow since our last issue has
been without doubt—one of the deepest that
has occured in this city since it has been settled
being nearly if not quite two feet deep. The
storm, with brief respites, continued for several
days. The last few days of fine weather have
caused the snow, in the valley, to rapidly 
disappear.
	The Z. C. M. I. Retail boot and shoe depart-
ment is being moved from the “Big Boot,” on
Main street, to the Wholesale Dept., just west
of the Eagle Emporium on First South St.
The Retail business is to be carried on in the
front part, and the Wholesale in the south
or rear part of the building. Both departments
will be under the charge of Mr. Rowe.
	A YOUNG Men’s Institute has been organized
in the 19th ward of this city, The following 
brethren were elected as officers—George Neb-
eker, President; James Watson and Geo. D.
Nebeker, Vice-Presidents; A. W. Carlson, Sec-
retary; Wm. Ridd, Treasurer; Millando Pratt,
J. M. Watson, Christopher Alston, Elihu Bar-
rel, Joseph Mathews and Alfred Solomon,
Directors. We hope its members will be as
successful in their efforts for mutual entertain-
ment and improvement as the members of
other kindred societies have been.
	THE LAST two or three weeks has been mark-
ed by heavy storms extending over a wide
range of country, and the snow has been unusu-
ally deep in many localities throughout these
mountains. The Central Pacific railroad was
blockaded twice in the Sierras, when the snow
was reported to be at one time, from twenty-five
to thirty feet deep. The heavy drifting snow
has also impeded travel, over the Utah North-
ren R. R., sleighs having been used to convey
passengers and mails over the blockaded por-
tion of the road. Reports from different coun-
ties show that stock have suffered for the want
of feed; especially where they have been turned
out to subsist on what they could find in the
mountains and on the “ranges,” many have
died through cold and starvation.
	FROM THE “Ogden Junction” we learn that
on the 13th ult., a grand Sabbath School Jubi-
lee was held at Brigham City, Box Elder Co.,
in the Court House hall which was elegantly
decorated for the occasion. The morning hours
were devoted to recitations, songs, and other
exercises by the scholars, and addresses by
prominent citizens. The afternoon and eve-
ning were given to dancing. Superintendents
J.C. Wixom, A. Madsen, C. Kelley and Sec’y
T. H. Wild, with others, doing all in their
power to promote the well being and pleasure
of the participants. Also on Saturday the 14th,
and Sunday the l5th, a Conference for that
Stake was held at the same place. President
Lorenzo Snow, of the Twelve Apostles, presid-
ed over the meetings which were densely
crowded, notwithstanding the inclement
weather. The choir conducted by Prof, Fis-
burn, with their sweet music contributed to
make the occasion a very interesting one. The
different branches of the Church and de-
partments of the Co-operative Institution, in
that county, were represented. Much excel-
lent and practical instruction was imparted by
the various speakers, and the general authori-
ties of the Church, and of the Box Elder Stake

[Column 2]
of Zion were unanimously sustained by vote.
We also note that “A number of young men
were called and sustained by the Conference to
labor in the several departments of the Co-op-
erative Institution,” which, in that locality,
has become one of the most successful and
self-sustaining in the country; and though
money is not very plentiful, the people are
prosperous and comfortable.


