[Vol8 | June 1921 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The Gospel in Armenia]

And unto the Master Artist, y allegiance J Tenew, The Gospel in Armenia Just at this time, when we are 'so interested in the starving children of the Near-East, it is interesting to learn that we have an excellent Relief Society in Aintab. Just recently the General Board received a letter from this Society asking for the prayers of the sisters of the Relief Society, in behalf of our desperately poor and persecuted Saints, in that far-away land. We may be sure the Church authorities will take steps to relieve a portion, at least, of this suffering. Meanwhile, it will be interesting to know something about the translation of the Book of Mormon into the Arabian language; for, as the years go on, there will be more and more association between the Latter-day Saints, and those who are engaged 'in rebuilding Jerusalem. The following sketch has been prepared for us by. F. F. Hintze: When I returned from my second mission to Turkey, I felt able to make a pretty fair translation of the Book of Mormon into Turkish, using the Armenian characters. Our work had been confined to the Armenian people almost exclusively. The Greeks were mostly very indifferent. They called themselves orthodox. They said they had a lineally descended priesthood and authority from the Apostle Paul, even as the Romans claimed they had from St. Peter, and they claimed a better and clearer descending line of Apostolic Authority than the Romans. So what use would they have for any new revelation or church when they had it all? Also they said they were the children of the foremost nation in arts and sciences of long ago. All others were only imitators so they had no use for us, only to laugh at us and mock. The Turks, on the other hand, claimed to be the only true and faithful nation whom Allah loved. They had all truth as embodied in the Law of Moses, the Psalms, the Prophets and the gospel. So they would hear nothing of us. The Turks were in power so they forbade us preaching to them or the followers of Mohammed under their jurisdiction. But they were willing we should convert any Christian Armenians to work among them hoping thereby to sow dissension among the Armenians. They felt that such work would break up Armenian unity and thus make it easier to govern them. So it came about that we did most of our work among the Armenians. Many thousands had joined the American Protestant Mission church, with its variety of creeds, so we simply fell into line and introduced the true gospel among them. We succeeded in baptiz-. Ing several hundred. About one hundred of these are here in 
 Utah, doing very well and associating with the Saints fairly well. All or nearly all are members of the Church, and many are very faithful in attending to their duties. Having succeeded so well in obtaining permission to publish pamphlets on my second mission, I published about 28,000. I laid the matter of the publishing of the Book of Mormon before President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors. In due time they approved of the movement, and I was permitted to translate the Book. About that time a man by the name of Lowe, whom I had baptized in the heart of Asia Minor, came here and he was engaged as my scribe. I first translated and wrote the first copy myself. After that he took my copy and copied it with such corrections in idioms as he felt were needed—of course, with mutual consent, and comparing the translation with the English text. He was a good penman so he prepared the printer's copy, besides taking a press copy for the Historian's Office. Here we began to notice the difference in the style of the various writers of the Book of Mormon. We found that some of these different writer's books were very much harder to translate than others. For instance there are Nephi's writings, and the others that follow him, Jacob, Jarom, etc., in Nephi lst and 2nd, who were very much the hardest to handle. Nephi's style of writing was more difficult because the grammatical construction was not like our own; he expressed himself in phrases without their being properly connected. All of which was a great difficulty for us, as the Turkish language is very regular and does not permit of the use of loose phrases without being properly connected. In kindred languages such as English, Danish, and German these difficulties were unnoticed. But in Turkish such sentences and their dependents would often have to be hunted up and rearranged in order to place them in their proper relationship. Sometimes the sentence had to be broken up and the subject reintroduced as a new sentence. Whereas, when we came to Mormon's work and also Moroni's, which were abridgements of other men's writings we found our work much easier. This was apparent to both of us and was cause of much comment. It gave us the philological proof that instead of the Book of Mormon being the human product of the Prophet Joseph Smith we had evidence that it was the work of many writers just as the Bible is written by many. Each prophet has his own method of expressing the word and will of God which as a whole code of theology is a perfect unity, but when told by many prophets in their own way and by the gift of their own personality, language and environment, it is as diversified as-aré the prophet-writers. Just so we found the Book of Mormon. We knew the Prophet Joseph was too young and too unlearned to be able to change the manner of speech of these different characters THE GOSPEL IN ARMENIA 369 of the Book as some fiction writers can do who are learned and gifted that way. Lowe accepted this as a new witness and strong evidence of the divinity of the Book of Mormon. But it did not rest at that. When I went back to Boston to publish the Book of Mormon I succeeded in getting the services of the Rev. Bool, a learned Armenian, a very able and honest man to help me to reread, and connect up the manuscript before we went to press with it. This we did by his reading the Armenian manuscript while I read the Book of Mormon in English, carefully comparing the work, verse by verse. In this way he obtained, of course, a thorough insight into the style of writing found in the Book of Mormon. He himself called my attention to the difference in the manner of speech and writing of some of these great prophet-authors. This is the more remarkable because it was discovered by one who was not a member of the Church, and not in sympathy with our work. I related the circumstances to Pres. John G. McQuarrie of the Eastern States mission, while in Boston upon an official visit. He thought it so remarkable and such a strong and plain evidence of the honesty of the Book of Mormon translator that he wanted to have it on record. It is not to be understood that the Rev. Bool intended to bear testimony to the divinity to the Book of Mormon, but in the honesty of his soul he confessed that the Book was not the work of One writer but the work of different authors. This was a confession that the work was on its face not the product of Joseph Smith. This in itself is a great testimony. Mr. Bool was very anxious that the Book should not bias him towards it nor spoil him for his ministerial duties, but his personal contact with me and my work did not fail to leave its impression, and will, with many such similar experiences, bring its fruits in due time. He will surely get a blessing for his honest effort in putting the Book in as good a style and as presentable and creditable a condition as was possible with the means and ability at our disposal.