Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart Chapter 7 (conclusion) TM Lance came home from Sunday School and gave Jennie a slip of paper. "You give it," he said hotly. Jennie picked up the paper, "a 214 minute talk. 'What are the rewards of righteousness? ' " She put the paper down and listened to Lance's angry feet storm up the stairs. She catalogued the sounds overhead. When she reasoned that he had changed into the relaxing jeans and knit shirt, 524 she mounted the stairs after him and knocked at his door. He opened it grudgingly. His face was closed against her. "I can't do that subject," he said. Jennie came into his room and straightened the bed. ''Why not?" He looked at her in surprise. '"'What rewards?" he asked. ''Just tell me that one thing, what rewards do good people get?" She studied him in pride and regret. He was growing up much too fast, mentally and physically. He's going to be like Rex, she thought, a thinker, a demander of reasons. "What rewards do the bad ones get?" she asked. He shook his head. "You're going to tell me jails all right. There are jails and jails!" He stuffed change into his pocket. "What difference between a cell in a prison for a robber, and the cell Mrs. Marchang lives in, with that sickness she has that won't let her off her bed?" Jennie was silent. The boy was demanding of her explanations that had harassed the minds of philosophers and sages since the world began. '"'She's been good all her life," he prodded. "'What's the difference between being in jail and being in that horrible. Nursing home you took me to, where old Mr. Penrose gropes around?" "But it's different." "How different?" He glared at her. "I've finally figured it out," he said, his freckles shining above the intensity of his face, "nobody gets any rewards but nobody. Just look around you." Jennie sank down on his bed. She thought, I haven't done anything to deserve the rewards of this family of mine, this new and lovely house, yet here I am, surrounded by beauty. She said slowly, "I think the reason we can't see the difference between one kind of jail and another, is because we can't see inside the person. Now, when I visit Mrs. Marchang, I feel as if I had been in another climate, or like the time we went to Hawaii. It was like another world, wasn't it?" "Yes," said Lance, reluctantly. "With Mrs. Marchang, I feel as though I had been in a garden place, filled with birds and other singing things." He stopped still. "You do? Honest?"' "Ves," Jennie said, "I honestly do. I come away inspired, filled with ideas to think about, determined to be braver and better." She stroked his hair. "We're so dimensional, Lance. We're doors, to ourselves, and the doors open to such different countries.'' She paused, "Once, I went to read to someone in the County Hospital.... It was dreadful to be with that person. It was as if I looked in a pit with snakes writhing about." Lance sat down beside her. "Once I went over to Mrs. Marchang's, with some stuff you sent over. She told me about the stars. She really knows where they are. On summer nights, her husband wheels her out, and she studies them through that old telescope of hers...."' He considered, '"'Yeah, we can cross her off our list, she's got more horizons than astronauts, I bet." Jennie sighed. She hoped they were making headway. But she felt beyond her depth. "What about Mr. Penrose?" WHEAT FOR THE WISE "What about him?" asked. "Well, think about a man who has been so great, I mean really great, a Governor and all. He told me once he didn't have anything bad happen to him, until he lost his son... And then he had to be put in the home all his money was gone and his children were gone, too. All his life good things and then, powie nothing but zero." Jennie WENNIE said slowly. "We all have sticky places to cross some of them come early... Some come now and then, some come all at once, when we're old and least able to cope with them. But we can't see what is beyond the hill for Mr. Penrose, can we?" "Like what?" he asked suspiciously. "Like heaven... Like reunion with his wife and son... Like the putting away of the heavy coat of his years and putting on the shining stuff of spirit. We can't see that. We grope... Like someone watching icebergs and seeing only edges above the water."' "All right," said Lance, "T'll do the speech." He hesitated. "Will Dad come?" "Sure, he'll come. He couldn't stay away from an occasion like mat. Lance went out whistling. Jennie went back to the kitchen. She looked in the mirror to see if the conversation had aged her as much as she felt it had, but the mirror gave her back only the brightness of her freshly done hair and the pinkness of the new lipstick, "Iceberg!" she hissed. She told Rex about the conversation. He sat on the high stool and sharpened the kitchen knives. The June day flooded the kitchen with light and heat. To Jennie's surprise, Rex was definite on the subject of rewards. "Lance is confusing rewards with the natural suffering to which man is heir, or the natural successes. Of course, one gets rewards if he does what is right. The student who sweats it out, gets better marks than the student who plays and _ procrastinates; the diligent business man fares better than the sloven. But, catastrophes happen to the alert student as well as to the lazy one, accidents befall the canny business man; tragedy overtakes the virtuous. These are the hazards of life. We cannot avoid tragedy by being good, nor danger by being wise." Jennie looked at him with awe. "Tell Lance that," she urged. But Rex did not move. "Some day not yet. And anyway, it is not in words but by power."' Jennie looked at him, startled. "What on earth?" "I'm quoting," he said, "'something that keeps sticking in my mind like a tall flagpole. When I go to see what is flying on it the whole thing disappears." The doorbell rang, Rex went to answer it. He came back to tell her, "I think they have a new job for you." "Is it the bishop?" "Tt is indeed," said Rex. The new job was the designing of a float for the Twenty-fourth of July parade. Jennie could not believe her ears. "A float! Good heavens! I can't even design a dress. I'm completely untalented in that 526 line."' The bishop looked at her questioningly. "I have faith in you. You had the faith to make a wonderful thing of the Trekker class. You were blessed to create a fine road show, one that gave pleasure to many. What makes you think you will be left alone on this?" "But a float..." Jennie. The bishop stood up. "'All you have to do is design one. We'll do the rest. You draw the picture. The theme ' he fished for the paper, "the theme for our float is the sego lily." quavered Hr went away. Jennie stood watching him drive down the street. She looked at the paper he had left in her hand. How on earth had she ever had the courage to assent? Rex came over to stand by her. "Scared?" "You are so right, I'm scared." "You mean you flinch at such a little thing as designing a float to be seen by... Let's say fifty thousand people?" '".. And a prize," said Jennie shortly. ''Don't forget the prize." Rex hugged her. "'T'll help you, if you would like me to, and [ll keep you supplied with aspirins." Jennie did not find the idea for the float easily. She was driven to prayer and then to fasting. She woke up at three one morning and punched Rex awake. "Tt's absolutely stunning," she assured him. He looked owlishly at her. "May I ask what is?" "The float. I just saw it." He gave her a withering look and went back to sleep. Jennie laughed at her own absurdity, but she could not sleep for visualizing the float. It had, in her mind, one large, beautifully made sego lily. In the calyx stood Ronda, the prettiest girl in the ward. Ronda wore white satin and long gloves and carried a sheaf of the blossoms. Around and down from the great flower was a manmade hill, green and covered with sage. At the foot of the hill, knelt the older women in_ pioneer clothes, depicting the digging of the sego-lily roots in the time of famine. Jennie hugged herself in the darkness. Then, frustrated beyond endurance at having to keep it to herself, she rose and went into Sabra's room and woke her. Sasra was enchanted, "I can just see it. Oh, Mother, it's going to be the very, very best." She paused, "Would there be room on the float for a dancer?" Jennie considered. Why not? What more lovely than a girl dancing on the hill. So it was decided. Her part of the creation of the float was mostly done. It was not hard to draw the design. Rex helped with that. They chose the colors together, the white, maroon, and gold of the flower, the sage green of the hill, and the maroon of the pioneers. Sabra was to wear yellow. The bringing into actuality of her idea was one of the most exciting things Jennie had ever experienced. Rex and his friends brought into being the paper mache flower. It was painted a silky white with the soft yellow and maroon heart in lovely contrast. The hillside was made of WHEAT FOR THE WISE green tissue paper, by the hands of the Relief Society, and the Boy Scouts brought down the sagebrush from a hike organized for that express purpose. On the Twenty-fourth of July, Jennie awoke at four-thirty. She lay still in the faint dawn, trying to reason the unease that crept through her. It was a foreboding she could not dissolve. I suppose we're not going to be the winner, she thought. She brushed the thought aside. Negative thinking! She rose and went downstairs. She could not rid herself of the dark misgivings. She bathed and read the paper and _ prepared breakfast and woke her family early. One look at Sabra made her lips tighten. "Fever!" She reached for Sabra's forehead. "I can see it." Sabra wrenched away. "I feel wonderful. I had a real hot bath this morning." "Get me the thermometer," Jennie commanded. But then something happened. Johnny cried, and Lora fell down the stairs. The thermometer was forgotten. The morning rushed by. Friends were coming back with them, after the parade, for a buffet lunch. There was a children's party, at five, for Lora. The moments slipped by and then it was time to help Sabra into her costume and hurry to the float. Sabra insisted on dressing herself. "T can do it alone."' So Jennie hurried along to get herself and Johnny and. Lora ready and, at last, to hurry the family to the car. Rex was already there, honking impatiently. "We're late!"' he said, "'there's no one to take Sabra's place. What are they going to do?" ''We'll get there!" Jennie said, "don't panic.' She looked at her daughter. "Remember, you're to do only the slow turns, and the arm movements, nothing else." Sabra smiled: "Of course, I'll remember." The float looked even more im- - posing in the bright morning light. The pioneer mothers were bustling about tying their bonnets and making last-minute alterations on their aprons. The bishop was settling an untied sagebrush. The beautiful Ronda was worrying about getting sunburned. Rex was enthusiastic. "It's just too spectacular! If it doesn't win, I'll eat my hat." "Remember the Road Show?" Jennie demanded. "Yes," said Rex, "but this is different. I've already seen some of the floats. In fact, look around you." | _ It was time. Ronda climbed to her place. Someone handed her the cascade of sego lilies she was to carry; the pioneer mothers found their places. Sabra climbed the manmade hill and_ stood poised, her arms in ballet position. | It was then Jennie realized she had forgotten the thermometer. It was too late. The invisible driver had taken his place under the fluttering paper mountain, someone hastily secured a sagebrush to the hillside, and the float moved majestically off to take its place in the parade. Jennie and Rex hurried Lance and Lora and Johnnie off to Rex's office where they could watch the parade from the comfort of the office windows. Whenever Jenny thought about the parade afterwards, she tried to remember the splendor of it as it inched below their view. Before the float, marched a band of Highlanders. Their fast whirling made Jennie's blood sing with delight. The advancing music made the float seem even more impressive. The beautiful Ronda smiled and waved her white-gloved hand from the backdrop of the sego lily. Sabra, like a winged nymph, danced on the narrow circle of the manmade hill. La eS ge Jennie's heart stood still. Sabra had gone into the inner world of herself and was no longer aware of watchers or surroundings. Jennie, knowing Sabra's powers of projection, had no doubt that to her child, the flimsy mound she stood upon, had become a hill, and the lovely Ronda, no doubt, a princess. "Rex?"' He looked at her in gentle 'amusement. ''Now, honey, she's perfectly all right. The float is practically standing still. She's enjoying herself to the hilt. Stop fussing." = The float passed before them and was lost in the sea of marchers and coming floats. Jennie sighed and settled back to evaluate her own float against the field of them. The telephone rang. Rex an- swered it. Jennie half turned. But when he said, "What hospital?" through lips gone white, Jennie knew. She went to stand beside him. Lance came to her at once and took her hand. "Now, Mom it's all right." She patted his shoulder. ''Go down and find a cab, Lance. You can walk a_ few blocks through the crowd. We'll call you." Rex put down the telephone. "If we go down through the alley we can get to a cab quicker ourselves. No use trying to move the car." Jennie could never remember getting down to the alley, nor through it. She recalled afterwards that the cab driver had had one cauliflower ear, but he had driven without regard to traffic or lights. "I'll get you there, folks. Don't worry. I'll get you there in plenty of time." They went up an elevator. They went down an interminable hall, the floors of which gleamed like glass. They came to a place named "Emergency," and there Rex put her into a chair. "ll go to the desk," he said. He came back, after a long time, with Doctor Lawson walking beside him. "She fell,' Rex explained. 'She danced too far out and she fell." "She was ill before that," said the Doctor, with a stern look at Jennie. "The child had a temperature of 103 to start with." He said thoughtfully, "She must have blacked out." Jennie said nothing. She could not speak. She looked wordlessly at Rex. In her mind words tumbled like the clothes in a dryer, WHEAT FOR THE WISE the words were all the same, rewards. She felt her faith flowing out of her like her breath. Her strength was a wisp that would not hold her together. She cried and could not wipe the tears away. Rex leaned over her. ''What is the bishop's number?" Jennie looked at him dazedly. "Why?" "To call him up here. He has the power to make her well." The strength flowed back into her, and the faith. She felt like a farmer who had sowed his wheat and was not astonished to find the golden grains ready for the miller. She gave him the number and waited and prayed. But she prayed mostly for Rex, and mostly in thanksgiving, for she had no doubt about Sabra's recovery. THE uncertain hours seemed endless. The bishop came and told her that their float had won the first prize. The papers came and there was the float on the front page. Then the doctor came with Rex and helped her to her feet, and said, ""You can come in now." So. Jennie followed them into the narrow room and there was her beloved, the strange and beautiful child she did not understand. Jennie bent over Sabra. "I'm sorry I didn't remember about the thermometer."' "T wanted you to forget,' Sabra whispered. "Don't be sorry." Rex stood beside Jennie and held her hand. "It's all right. Sabra will dance on a thousand floats before she's. Done with dancing." But Sabra pressed her advantage. "When can I get baptized?" Rex grinned at her. "'With the rest of us, when you are better." When they were driving home Jennie could contain herself no longer. "But when and how?" Rex said testily, ""Can't a man have any secrets?" "No. Tell me." "The flagpole I was telling you about, the one that ran up a pennant every once in awhile with words on it... Like not in word but in power." "You mean Sabra... And the administering?" "No. Long, long ago. I just didn't have the will to break down the last crumbling wall. It happened when I saw what was happening to you and to Lance and to Sabra... The mysterious force of good that circled you and helped you overcome your obstacles and brought you through. " He looked at her with longing, "You were never so beautiful as when you sat flushed and disheveled trying to teach Billy to read, or slaving over your Trekker lessons... Or trying to tie the world together for your son." "But I don't understand," said Jennie. "I could never think of the words to tell you what our religion is all about... How simple it is as simple as Jesus in the manger." Rex smiled at her. "Or as complex as life itself." He caressed her hair. ""You were too busy and too full of faith to notice that you were moving mountains." He laughed. "It takes someone like me, who lives in the world to see what is really happening." Jennie sat still, struggling to understand her husband. "Not in word, but in power. There has to be power in his Church. Power, helping people to keep his commandments, power that builds faith and nourishes it, power that protects and guides and increases. It's a tremendous thing." She looked at him uncertainly. "But how do you know this?" she demanded. He shook his head. "Isn't that just like a woman. She'll plug in her vacuum and clean her whole house with it.. And never know how it works..." he said slowly, "but a man like me... Has to know what makes it work, before he dares to use it." "The rewards of righteousness..' said Jennie, "remind me to remind Lance about his speech." "T'll remind him myself," said Rex. "After all, that's my job 39 now.