VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants ED a ee eee Alice Colton Smith Message 73—''But | Have Commanded You to Bring Up Your Children in Light and Truth" (D&C 93:40) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: Objective: To provide an atmosphere in the home for R In the woods, alone, on a beau- _tiful, clear, spring day, Joseph Smith prayed for truth. It was his first attempt at vocal prayer. At fourteen, confused by conflicting religious claims, he turned to the scriptures for guidance as his _ devout parents had taught him to do. In these scriptures he found the words that were to bring light and truth to his life and to all mankind. With rare and simple faith, he heeded the counsel of the apostle James to ask God, "that giveth to all men liberally" (James 1:5). Embarking on one of the greatest quests of man, the search for truth, he used one of the best tools of learning, prayer. Spiritual learning experiences. He prayed with faith, humility, and a receptive mind. As is so often the case when we search, we find not the simple answer we seek but an almost unbelievable, exciting new dimension of knowledge. So to him the answer came. The darkness which had enveloped him after addressing what was seemingly a simple question was dispelled, and the answer came in a light, brighter than the sun. He had asked a simple question. God answered him with the key to eternity— that he and we might return to God's presence. Joseph Smith was a good student. With the never-ending en- couragement of his parents he had from infancy steadily pursued the steps of learning. As we seek to help our children follow his example, we might ask, '""How did he acquire knowledge?"' Learning is a process, a long process of development. It did not begin for Joseph on that clear day in 1820. Years before, by gentle but firm teaching, his parents had brought him to love the scriptures and to search out the meaning of the words of God. The first step in attaining knowledge is a love for learning —the cultivation of the burning desire to know—with which children begin. The second step is to acquire the tools of learning, some of which are reading, writing, and prayer. The third is to learn to study—to seek out for oneself. All this takes years. All this takes patience, forbearance, gentleness, love and, sometimes,, failure, but always with the will — to go on. When one is facing conflicting — opinions, as Joseph did, what does one do? He should turn to the source of light, to God in prayer. In a shaft of light God answered Joseph. For us it is more commonly through an urging of the mind and spirit, a burning within, the imperceptible opening of new doors in the mind, or the conviction that comes to one through the still, small voice. Let us make the consistent, patient, long-suffering effort to teach our children from birth to seek, to search, to ask, to pray, and to study. We must help them to know the best books such as the one from which the Prophet Joseph Smith drew his inspiration. Then, as God commanded us, we will bring up our children in light and truth.