[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 515 | Home | The Neighbor Plate Betty | G. Spencer]
Betty  G.  Spencer 
■  The  well-worn,  deep  metal  pie  plate  didn't  look  like  anything  valuable  as 
it  lay  neglected  in  a  kitchen  drawer.  An  outsider  would  have  quickly  discarded 
it  as  something  of  little  value,  but  to  our  family,  gathered  to  prepare  the  house 
for  new  occupants,  it  represented  a  cherished  characteristic  of  a  friendly,  viva- 
cious grandmother. 
The  pie  plate  was  what  we  called  Grandmother's  Neighbor  Plate,  and  it 
was  one  of  her  most  often  used  kitchen  utensils. 
Grandmother  always  seemed  to  make  a  little  extra  whenever  she  prepared 
a  special  treat  for  her  family.  Somehow,  the  extra  was  placed  in  the  pie  plate 
and  carried  to  an  appreciative  friend  or  neighbor.  When  sickness,  trouble,  or 
death  visited  a  neighborhood  home,  the  pie  plate  inevitably  was  carried  to  the 
kitchen  door,  and  the  sorrowing  family  members  were  cheered  by  the  delectable 
contents. 
Grandmother,  an  excellent  cook,  was  locally  famous  for  her  flaky  pie 
crusts,  mouth-watering  fruitcakes,  and  feathery  light  hot  rolls. 
The  Neighbor  Plate  helped  Grandmother  get  acquainted  with  a  new- 
comer, too.  Moving  day  was  sure  to  find  her  running  over  with  a  "little  some- 
thing" to  help  out  with  the  first  meal  in  the  new  home.  We  soon  noticed  that 
the  Neighbor  Plate  was  an  important  link  in  the  close,  warm  friendships  that 
grew  along  her  street. 
Frequently,  the  plate  was  returned  heaped  with  apples,  berries,  pieces  of 
newly  baked  cake,  or  other  special  treats  from  a  grateful  heart.  Gratitude  de- 
lighted Grandmother,  but  those  few  neighbors  who  felt  duty-bound  to  return 
the  favor  were  a  genuine  disappointment.  Grandmother  felt  that  her  offering 
should  be  savored,  enjoyed — even  appreciated — but  not  necessarily  paid  back. 
Grandmother  is  gone,  now,  but  the  philosophical  values  she  implanted  in 
our  hearts  are  with  us  still. 
Her  daughters  have  remained  in  the  same  friendly  mountain  valley  where 
they  grew  to  womanhood,  but  the  grandchildren  have  settled  across  the  country 
from  Florida  to  California.  Our  homes  are  as  varied  as  we  are,  but  each  of  us 
has  an  important  piece  of  kitchen  equipment.  We  would  never  think  of  keep- 
ing house  without  a  Neighbor  Plate! 
Our  Grandmother's  philosophy  of  giving  is  as  appropriate  today  as  it  was 
fifty  years  ago.  What  we  give  is  not  really  too  important.  It  may  be  lemon 
meringue  pie  in  Florida,  or  Hungarian  goulash  in  California.  Whatever  else 
we  may  add,  love  and  friendliness  are  the  most  important  ingredients  that 
are  ever  offered  on  a  Neighbor  Plate! 
515
