[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 514 | Special Feature | Snatches of Happiness Elsie | C. Carroll]
[Snatches of Happiness Elsie C. Carroll]

An outsider would have quickly discarded it as something of little value, but to our family, gathered to prepare the house for new occupants, it represented a cherished characteristic of a friendly, vivacious grandmother. The pie plate was what we called Grandmother's Neighbor Plate, and it was one of her most often used kitchen utensils. Grandmother always seemed to make a little extra whenever she prepared a special treat for her family. Somehow, the extra was placed in the pie plate and carried to an appreciative friend or neighbor. When sickness, trouble, or death visited a neighborhood home, the pie plate inevitably was carried to the kitchen door, and the sorrowing family members were cheered by the delectable contents. Grandmother, an excellent cook, was locally famous for her flaky pie crusts, mouth-watering fruitcakes, and feathery light hot rolls. The Neighbor Plate helped Grandmother get acquainted with a newcomer, too. Moving day was sure to find her running over with a "little something" to help out with the first meal in the new home. We soon noticed that the Neighbor Plate was an important link in the close, warm friendships that grew along her street. Frequently, the plate was returned heaped with apples, berries, pieces of newly baked cake, or other special treats from a grateful heart. Gratitude delighted Grandmother, but those few neighbors who felt duty-bound to return the favor were a genuine disappointment. Grandmother felt that her offering should be savored, enjoyed—even appreciated—but not necessarily paid back. Grandmother is gone, now, but the philosophical values she implanted in our hearts are with us still. Her daughters have remained in the same friendly mountain valley where they grew to womanhood, but the grandchildren have settled across the country from Florida to California. Our homes are as varied as we are, but each of us _ has an important piece of kitchen equipment.