[Vol52 | July 1965 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Lesson | Title: 541 Visiting Teacher Message for October — "And I Give Unto You a Commandment. . . ." Christine H. Robinson]
visiting families, brought the attendance up to 200 per cent. The spirit there was wonderful, and we all saw that the teaching and the procedures were the same familiar ones we knew in our home ward. The next step, after planning where to stop over, from Saturday afternoon to Monday morning, is to find out the types of campgrounds available near the ward or branch. Perhaps your budget allows for a motel now and then. If so, this simplifies planning and probably puts you nearer the local chapel or hall where the ward or branch meets. The directory information your bishop gave you has given you names to contact Saturday afternoon, when you arrive in the town where you plan to attend church on Sunday. A phone call to the local bishop or branch president will not only tell you time schedules, but will also introduce you to a fine member of the Church who will undoubtedly be looking for your family and be ready to greet them and show them which classes to attend. Saturday is also the time to buy ahead all you will need to prepare Sunday's meals and Monday's breakfast. If you have camped before, you know this can be done. You'll have your favorite recipes, perhaps cottage-fried potatoes, no-bake cookies, and so forth. You'll know certain items can be stored, others must be used up. Applesauce cake, for instance, in a tight container, is still nice and moist for Sunday's dessert treat. On Saturdays, we also like to have some Church magazines or books to read on Sundays. Mother and daughters may have to wait in the car while the boys and their father attend Priesthood meeting, and the time goes rapidly if something special has been saved and is a surprise for this time. Clothing may also be planned by mother. She knows which dresses and trousers are least likely to look crumpled. Of course, all Sunday clothing will be on hangers by Saturday night and look surprisingly well pressed after hanging overnight. Shoes (stored in plastic bags) can be slipped on the last thing. A time well loved and