[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 541 | Home | Visiting Teacher Message for October — "And I Give Unto You a Commandment. . . ." Christine | H. Robinson]
Ee l VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 65 — "And I Give Unto You a Commandment That You Shall Teach One Another the Doctrine of the Kingdom" (D&C 88:77). For First Meeting, October 1965 Objective: To emphasize the fact that we have a solemn responsibility to ® The divine instruction to teach one another lies at the foundation of The Church of Jesus Christ. When Jesus was upon the earth, he spent his life in teaching others. After they had been taught, he instructed his followers to go forth and teach one another. Yet, after the Savior's crucifixion, his disciples apparently forgot the instructions he had given them and some of them returned to their former occupation as fishermen. Following his resurrection, to reemphasize their teaching responsibilities, the Savior called his disciples around him and reinstructed them. In one of the dramatic events recorded in the scriptures, Jesus asked Peter if he loved him, and when Peter responded in the affirmative, Jesus told him three times to feed his lambs and sheep. (See John 21:15-17.) Then, before departing from his disciples, the Savior gave them his final inteach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Struction which was to go forth and teach all nations, "Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world" (Matt. 28:20). Not only must we teach one another the "doctrine of the kingdom" through the Church organizations but, also, we have a sacred obligation to teach each other in the home. We must make sure that our children have an understanding of the _ gospel truths. On this subject the Lord has been very specific, telling us as parents that if we fail to teach our children in the home "the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D&C 68:25). Moreover, we must teach our children 


 "to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (D&C 68:28). Among the basic concepts of the gospel are the divine truths, "The glory of God is intelligence" (D&C 93:36). And, "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" (D&C 131:6). The Church teaches us that not only are knowledge, intelligence, and religious training basic to happiness and success in this life, but, also, they are necessary to gaining the highest exaltation in the world to come. Without doubt the best way to gain knowledge and make it part of our lives is to study, learn and apply, and then teach this knowIledge to someone else. The apostle Paul said, 'Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself?' (Rom. 2:21). President Brigham Young emphasized the same basic truth when he said: A man who wishes to receive light and knowledge, to increase in the faith of the Holy Gospel, and to grow in the knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus Christ, will find that when he imparts knowledge to others he will also grow and increase... Get knowledge and understanding by freely imparting it to others (Journal of Discourses 2: 267). The basic purpose of all religious teaching is to gain a better knowledge of God's commandments so that we can put these truths into practice in our lives and thereby gain the blessings that come from living the gospel. Knowledge in and of itself is valueless unless it leads to constructive and worthwhile action. One has not really taught a gospel truth unless the learner's life through action has been improved. Milton expressed this thought beautifully when he said, "The end of all learning is to know God, and out of that knowledge to love and imitate him." Suggested cross references for mothers in the home to the Family Home Evening Manual: Lesson 11 - "Our Heavenly Father Made a Plan For Us," page 80; Lesson 24 - "Jesus Taught Us the Word of God," page 193; Lesson 42-''We Should Learn the Principles of Revelation," page 346.