[Vol52 | July 1965 | Page 484 | Special Feature | Pioneer Standards Dorothy | Clapp Robinson]
Jesus tells of a king who, before he went to war, sat down and counted the cost. Our pioneer grandparents also did that before taking up their journey. Behind, they were leaving the familiar, the known. Ahead lay the unfamiliar, the unknown, the challenges of which they might be poorly prepared to meet. Individually the pioneer made his choice, and the choice once made, he used all his resources in an attempt to meet the responsibilities that went with it. He put faith in his God, trust in his leaders, and he developed muscle and judgment. He quickly learned that his welfare depended on the welfare of the company. The pioneers, as a whole, gave their 484 thy Chan Robins best to the cause. It was a journey for stout hearts and strong bodies; it was a journey that produced great men; it was a journey that brought forth a growing spiritual nation of the Lord. The pioneer could do this because he could say with sure conviction: "I am a man; I came into the world possessing certain attributes and powers, and God has given me the strength to develop them for my welfare and that of others." History has proved he did have that strength. Again today we face a future that is uncharted. Many minds are riddled by doubts and fears. Strange new values are being advanced as necessary to survival. Living has become so complex that many of the ablest minds are ready to throw aside all the old values. There seems to be a nebulous line between right and wrong in the minds of many. There seems to be a strong tendency, especially among some young people, and even some fathers and mothers, to show no reverence toward God or their bodies. The mothers of today are faced with a frightening challenge. How can they rear men and women of honor and integrity when, from all sides, posters, TV, radio, and magazines flaunt the glorification of selfishness, immorality, violence, self-love and self-gratification? The task is not easy. It has not been easy in any generation. The way of ease is not the way of growth. Our children came into this life with the same _ potentials of strength as have the children of other generations. They must be taught to count the cost before succumbing to many present-day theories and practices. They must be schooled in the graces and sacrifices that produce character. They should know the meaning of the words of Alma, "'For every man receiveth wages of him whom he listeth to obey." "But, Grandma, times have changed." How often we hear this excuse! ""We don't do things that way these days." True, times have changed, but human urges and wants have not. It is hard for children to realize that their parents went through the same emotional adjustments that they face.

David, the young son of Jesse, met and conquered Goliath; an PIONEER STANDARDS eight-year-old pioneer boy crept alone through the darkness of night over trackless hills to summon help for his people who were trapped by Indians; today a young lad faced his gang bent on deviltry and said, "Count me out." Those were the times, and these are the times when the same brand of courage is needed; and the results will be the same. David won the battle for his king; the pioneer boy saved his people. The boy who said, "Count me out," gave strength to weaker boys who were waiting for his decision. Today we live in a climate of "sive me." The pioneer would have been insulted if offered something for nothing. Taking care of himself and his family was the test of his manhood. How do we help our children to grow strong and self-reliant? The way any skill is acquired— by patience and _ practice—the same way a pianist perfects his playing, or a basketball player develops quickness of sight and muscular agility. Fine in theory, but how do you control practice? There seems to be no one sure answer. It would be a wise parent, indeed, who could foresee every contingency. Wherever the way lies, our Heavenly Father is not going to puta finished script in our hands. " for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant.... For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves..." (D&C 58:26, 28). Parents must keep alert and teachable and develop their own powers by "faith and by study." 


 There is no lack of signposts. Our Church magazines and other magazines carry articles by recognized authorities. President McKay has said, "To be trusted is more to be desired than to be loved."" Trust implies self-discipline, honor, and promptness. The climate of the home seems to be basic to all training of children. Much training is caught rather than taught. It might be helpful to observe the methods used by parents who seem to be making a success of rearing their families. One mother of a family of husky, rowdy boys doesn't make a big production out of their training. Their behavior is taken as a matter of course. They laugh and sing and work and play together. They fill their Church assignments; they are active in school and civic projects; they have a togetherness won by prayer and appreciation. Where there is appreciation there is thankfulness. Gratitude does not breed discontent. Perhaps success with families comes as a by-product as does happiness. A man who is determined to make a_ success of rearing his family might be contrasted with a man who helps his children reach their full potentials. No difference between the two except attitude, and attitude predetermines method. A fourth grade boy announced to his class at school that his birthday was tomorrow after school. He assured the teacher his mother had said he might invite the entire class. Next morning, with his mother standing by, he confessed to his classmates it was not his birthday and there would 486 be no party. Perhaps there might be one on his birthday but not before. Harsh? Did his mother make a big thing out of a small lie? A little girl who thought money was made to spend earned some by helping a neighbor clean her yard. The rake handle rubbed a blister on the palm of the girl's hand. She priced everything in the dime store that she thought was worth her blister. She came home with all her money still clutched in her hand. The great men and women who have risen from poverty give proof that gratification of every wish and whim is not necessary for development. In searching the lives of great men who came from wealthy homes, we find they were strictly disciplined in their youth. A distinction should be made between truly great men and men of great reputation. THe pioneer child provided his own amusements to a large extent. Two pioneer boys built a small adobe mill and hammered together some small molds. Small adobes made wonderful playhouses for small girls. Through their play the boys learned the fundamentals of brickmaking. On the market today are innumerable toys that can develop a child's or teenager's skills far beyond a pioneer parent's wildest dream. A visit to a grade or high school science fair is a revelation to the uninitiated. Again nature is the same but the settings and tools are different. Buying amusements just for amusement's sake can end in a search for thrills. The outstanding men of today are those who have risen from the f / + / A; di I 4 @ Alma gathered her books and purse from the car and walked up to the house. It's good to be home, she thought, as she walked in the door, and it's Friday— that's always good news. "That you, Mom?" Larry ambled into the living room and planted a kiss on Alma's cheek. "How was school?" "Pretty wild today, dear. How was yours?" "Okay. But those men aren't through with the bathroom yet.