Margery S. Stewart The mist has purple in it, Inside the chill, the sea blows. I should be used to summer P Severing the day's hours On these flowing hills. But this is not the folding Away of a year but the ripping Of remembrance. I should name this sea edge home, Fall feathers over the dove cote P In the tender hollows. Why soar the cliffs? Climbings? Wind gilded mountains of my Birth land? They invade me. I feel snow only a storm away I hear rains falling on dust-leafed Alders. I feel poplars probing The weathers. They cry me home. But I cannot. I have seen birds in the sunny Springtime here, scolding The rich lawns, drooping on the Wires, waiting for the release. When it came, uncurling cramped Wing to leap iceward on the Airy rivers. Let it not be Too long for me. The Cover: Castle in Austria: Transparency by Alpha Photo Associates: Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Laguna Beach, California, by Josef Muench Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes My husband and I both enjoy the Magazine. It serves as a comforter to us. We especially enjoy all the words of wisdom and we. Liked the story 'Valentine's Day,'' by Helen H. Trutton, in the February issue. Before we came here, we were in the Southern States Mission, and it was like a wonderful visit home to see the Singing Mothers of the South Georgia District recently in our Magazine—all those familiar faces smiling at us over 11,000 miles away! E. Deanie Teuscher Guam, Marianna Islands The Magazine is interesting, educational, and objective. By means of it I have had the privilege of knowing more of our North American sisters, and many of our Church leaders. It is a pleasure to see the pictures of the bazaars and the beautiful ideas for handicrafts. Rhina P. De Viacava Valparaiso, Pert I have read from the pen of Blanche Kendall McKey many beautiful and inspirational poems and stories. ''Never Land and Home," in the April Magazine is no exception. In a 1926 college yearbook, I treasure this bit of advice, as I left for the mission field: ''Speak up real bravely and organize."' This gentle, sweet wisdom from a patient, lovely speech teacher—Blanche Kendall McKey. LaVina Norman Holman Pocatello, Idaho The way to build a testimony is to improve in knowledge of the gospel by reading good literature. Before I became a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine I was like a cabbage— I just grew. But since I have this wonderful book I have learned many things to improve myself and my family. There is something for everyone in this Magazine. Willehmina McAlister Rockhampton Branch Australian Mission 482! Am so completely impressed by this year's new literature text ''Out of the Best Books'' that I feel prompted to express myself to you. I love teaching from the text. It is truly a masterpiece of criticism and selection. 1! Am so very grateful for the literature program in Relief Society. My group loves the lessons. I truly believe the greatest minds we can learn to know have been those in the past who have written. Again, I am grateful for Dr. Clark and Dr. Thomas who did such an outstanding service in compiling the book. Mrs. Lloyd C. Miller Provo, Utah I have really enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. We were living in an area where we had to travel about twentyfive miles to church, and if the weather was bad, as it was most of the winter, we couldn't make it at all. There were so few women in the ward who could get to Relief Society that most of the time there wasn't any. So the Magazine was a special comfort and blessing. I look forward to receiving it each and every month, even though we now live where 1 can attend meetings regularly. Helen Anderson Sacramento, California I think the story ''A State of Mind," by Lael J. Littke, in the April Magazine is one of the best published in quite some time. The theme has universality, the characters are real, and the author shows understanding of all ages; no rough places, no overwriting. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is an inspiration and a great help to us in our home, and to me personally in the work in the Chilean Mission. I work as First Counselor in the Relief Society of the mission, and often refer to old numbers of the Magazine, as well as to current numbers for help in my work. Gloria Schaffer Melendez Santiago, Chile. Relief Society 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned' unless return. Postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.