[Column 2]
address in which she expressed her appre-
ciation of the tributes paid her on her re-
cent birthday anniversary, for which she ten-
dered heartfelt thanks. She prayed that
the Lord would give her a sense of grati-
tude and charity that she might give out all
that is best in her to the sisters of this great
organization.
	Mrs. Hannah M. Crosby, president of
Panguitch stake, gave a favorable report of
the Relief Society in that stake. Spoke of
the fine attendance at their regular meetings
and the great interest manifested in the
work.
	Mrs. Susa Y. Gates of the General
Board delivered an address on “Life,” deal-
ing with the subject from the standpoint
of a Latter-day Saint. Our life before we
came here is forgotten but it was as tangi-
ble as it is today. We understood and
longed for more light and when it was
given us we came here as little children and
had forgotten everything. “My heart
swells with gratitude that I was permitted
to come here under the covenant of the
Priesthood and that I value life as it should
be valued.” The Latter-day Saints have
been given light and truth. No one else
believes that we had an individual con-
sciousness before we came here. The Chris-
tian and heathen world believe that there
was a great spirit and that we are tiny
sparks from this spirit. We, each of us,
come here with individual life—we come, it
is true, in the darkness and gloom, we go
through childish sorrow, maturity and
motherhood, but life grows deeper and rich-
er with all these experiences. Life brings
great responsibility with it—responsibility,
pain, suffering and worry. Many people
and several sects believe that we should
steel ourselves against pain and worry; but
pain and worry are part of our lives and
through them we are developed and purified.
When we see women like our president who
have passed through sorrow and affliction
and have remained true and faithful to the
end we should feel that we are willing to
go through the same experiences if we can
reach the point they have reached.
	Brother Walter Wallace sang a solo,
“Come Holy Spirit,” after which reports
were given by Mary Ollerton of Parowan
stake and Jennie Potter of Carbon stake.
	Two musical numbers were then given on
the violin by Prof. Willard Weihe, accom-
panied by Prof. J. J. McClellan. Mr.
Weihe played “Russian Airs” and “The
Cradle Song,” which he also played before
President Taft at the White House during
the eastern tour of the tabernacle choir. A
rising vote of thanks was given the
musicians.
	Sister Marilla Daniels of Provo was
called upon to give reminiscences of the
Prophet Joseph Smith with whom she was
personally acquainted. She told of his
many fine qualities and of his wonderful
perseverance and faith. She related many
incidents in which the Prophet figured and
stated that she was one of those who saw
him at his home after his martyrdom. This
sad death was a thing she could not be
reconciled to for years. She heard Joseph
Smith prophesy that the Saints would be
driven to the Rocky Mountains and would
there build up a great commonwealth. Bore
a strong testimony to the divinity of the
mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	The congregation sang, “How Firm a

[Column 3]
Foundation,” and the session closed with
prayer by Sister Romania B. Penrose.
	AFTERNOON SESSION, 2 P. M.
	Congregation, “Come Let Us Anew.”
Prayer, Sister Alice M. Horne. Singing,
“Praise to the Man.”
	President Wells stated that recently the
Church had had the opportunity of prepar-
ing a brief history of the Church for the
Appleton Company’s Encyclopoedia, and
that the Relief Society was given the priv-
ilege of furnishing a sketch of 3,000 words
on the history of our organization during the
seventy years of its existence; also 500
words each on the biographies of the five
presidents of our organization. The sketch
and the biographies had been prepared un-
der the direction of President Wells, ap-
proved by the First Presidency and sent
on for publication.
	Sister Jennie A. Hyde, who has recently
been appointed a missionary on the General
Board, briefly addressed the assembly. She
felt delighted to be numbered with those
who were associated in a work of charity
and love; in fact, she felt that this was the
most joyful moment of her life and ex-
pressed her great desire to do all in her
power to assist in the work of the Relief
Society.
	A soprano solo, “O, Loving Father,” was
then given by Lizzie Thomas Edward.
The remainder of the time was turned over
for testimony bearing and the following
sisters bore testimonies: Sister Emily S.
Richards, Sister Head from Preston, Sister
Ellsworth, Sister Brown of Salt Lake, Sis-
ter Chas. D. Evans, Sister Romania B. Pen-
rose and others.
	A trio, “God Be Merciful,” was sung by
Lizzie Thomas Edward, Evan Arthur and
Ralph Siddoway.
	Elder James E. Talmage spoke of the
wonderful work accomplished by the Relief
Society. No organization in the Church
receives more admiration from the world
than this. The name is very suggestive
and well fitted for a society which so un-
selfishly gives aid and relief to all who apply
for it. He felt that the Lord smiles on this
work and urged the sisters to continue to
be diligent workers.
	After singing by a mixed quartet, “Prov-
idence is Over All,” meeting adjourned until
October, 1912.
	Benediction was pronounced by Sister
Rebecca N. Nibley.
		AMY BROWN LYMAN,
				Assistant Secretary.


