THE TITANIC. 
	Of all the disasters of the sea of which 
we have record, none is so appalling as the 
one that occurred on the night of April 14, 
when the great ocean liner “Titanic” struck
a huge iceberg off the banks of Newfound-
land and in less than three hours had been 
swallowed up by the ocean with a vast cargo 
of human freight, more than fifteen hundred 
souls going down into the icy waters with 
the mighty ship. The details of this terrible 
disaster, one of the worst in the world’s
history, are too terrible even to contem-
plate—one stands aghast at its awfulness. 
Calamities like these impress one anew with 
the utter insignificance of man and man’s
power in any measuring of strength with 
the angry forces of nature. 
	A great vessel, supposed to be unsink-
able, equipped with all the latest and most
modern appliances, every luxury and con-
venience that human skill could devise, and 
yet on its very first voyage doomed 
to the depths of the sea! In such a 
tragedy one truly realizes that God 
is no respecter of persons and in His 
sight all men are equal. The gallant chiv-
alry and dignity of the men and the heroism 
of the women on board that ill-fated vessel 
will long be told in story and in song.
How the former parted with their loved ones 
and then stepped back, loading other women 
and children into the life boats and then 
calmly awaited their destiny—to be hurled 
into the sea, perchance if God so willed to 
reach a piece of wreckage and be saved by 
a passing vessel, or to be buried in the 
waves to await that day when the sea will 
be called upon to give up its dead. The 
civilized world is shocked beyond words 
and the hearts of the people are filled with 
a desire to do some good for those who 
having been saved find themselves without 
means and bereft of loved ones. The Red 
Cross Society of America can surely now
find plenty of work relieving these un-
fortunates and the people have already 
shown how gladly they will help by their 
liberal donation of means. 
	So sudden was the impact of the 
ice and so complete the wreck that 
had it not been for that most mar-
vellous of all recent inventions, wireless
telegraphy, it is doubtful if a single soul
would be alive to tell the story. But by 
this means the ship’s distress was signalled


many miles and the nearest ship, the “Car-
pathia,” rescued those found on life boats 
and rafts in the early morning, though the 
great ship and most of her passengers had 
gone down into a watery grave long hours 
before. The rescued ones say just as the 
lights went out they heard the band playing
“Nearer, My God, to Thee”—a crowning
touch of pathetic resignation that can hardly 
be thought of without tears!


