[Column 1]
	OUR TEMPLE OF THE DRAMA.
	A notable event in the history of Salt
Lake City occurred March 7 when the old
historic playhouse, the Salt Lake Theater,
celebrated its fiftieth anniversary. The event
brought to mind a flood of recollections, not
only to those few who now remain who were
present at the dedication and the first per-
formance, but to many of the next genera-
tion who, from early childhood, had been
frequent attendants among the audiences,
and sometimes had swelled the number of
supernumeraries in the fire scene in “The
Streets of New York,” or the Witches’
chorus in “Macbeth.” Of the few remain-
ing who took part on the first night, there
were only Hiram B. Clawson, Phillip Mar-
getts, Margaret Romney nee Thomas, and
Prof. Charles J. Thomas. It was with keen
regret the audience marked the absence of
David McKenzie, probably Utah’s most
gifted actor, whose sudden illness prevented
his being there and whose death occurred
a few days later. 
	As I sat in the audience with my mother,
I was not so much interested in the opera,
“Robin Hood,” being presented in a most
charming manner by the Salt Lake Opera
company, as in the audience itself; and when
all those present who attended the first per-
formance were asked to rise, my eyes were
dimmed with tears noting the changed faces,
the whitened hair, the furrowed brow, the
halting step. From that hour the opera did
not interest me; I forgot it and with closed
eyes, I looked back into the old Theater
with its long cushioned seats, its heavy
green curtain and its row of coal oil lamps
for footlights. We went in family groups
in those days, and a large part of the east
side was reserved for President Young’s
family, while my father’s seat was on the
west side of the railing which ran down
the center, No. 69. I remember that Presi-
dent Kimball’s was just in front, No. 68, and
I used as a little child to wonder if all the
Kimball family were tall dark boys because I
noted many times the seat had only men
folks, while my father’s just behind was
nearly filled with girls. The most striking
figure in all the audience was, of course,
President Young, whose keen enjoyment of
the play seemed always to enhance the in-
terest for others. Then there was always
my own father, the greatest lover of the
theater I ever knew. Among the attaches
none was more faithful than Brother Toms,
the doorkeeper, and after the building had
been renovated and refurnished, it seemed
as though it was incomplete without that
faithful monitor to receive our tickets and
afterwards keep order among the unruly
children who found their way inside.
	As in Macbeth’s dream, long lines of
personages pass before my gaze: Paunce-
fort; George Waldron in “Nick of the

