[Column 2]
liam, Parley, Orson and Nelson; the last 
named never received the Gospel, so never
came to Utah. When my husband was on
his last mission, he visited him and he told
me in one of his letters of his pleasant visit
with him and his family, and that two of
his daughters were very sweet singers. I
find by referring to his letter that he stayed
with them about a week, and said they were
quite favorable to the Gospel. At the time
of his visit they were living in Ohio.
	I now wish to speak of his last mission.
Many have labored under the impression
that he was not called, but sought to go.
There never was a greater mistake. In the
spring of ’56 he had severe illness brought
on by over-doing mentally and physically,
and suffered more or less from the effects of
it through the summer. He came into my
house one day about the middle of August,
and said to me, “Agatha, I have bad news
for you.” I was just recovering from my
confinement, our youngest child, now Mrs.
F. C. Woods, having been born on the 8th
day of August. His words and manner sent
a strange thrill through me. I said, “What is
it?” He replied, “I am called to go on a
mission.” I said, “Why do you call it bad
news? You have been on missions be-
fore.” He said, “Because I feel as if I shall
never come back.” I said, “Why do you feel
like that; you’ve been delivered from mob
violence and from prison and been pre-
served till now—what do you think can
happen to you?” He replied, “I do not
know; perhaps the Indians may kill me or
some accident may happen.” He said, “I
asked President Young what I was to do
and why he sent me as there were already
three of the Twelve in the States.” Elder
John Taylor was publishing “The Mormon”
in New York, Erastus Snow “The Lumi-
ary” in St. Louis, and Brother George A.
Smith was visiting the different branches
of the Church in the East. He said, “Bro-
ther Parley, you need a rest, and a change;
you can assist Brothers Taylor and Snow
and visit the Saints and instruct them by
their firesides, and do much good in many
ways.”
	He went busily to work preparing for his
mission. In a few days he came in and said,
“I have been to the President’s office and
been set apart for my mission. The Presi-
dency were Brigham Young, Heber C. Kim-
ball, and Jedediah Grant, and they placed
their hands upon my head, President Young
being mouth. He confirmed all former
blessings and ordinations heretofore given,
and promised many blessings for the future.
After he was through President Grant said,
‘Brother Parley, I would give a good deal
for one clause in your blessing?’ ‘What
was that, Brother Grant?’ He said, ‘Your
children shall be preserved unto you.’” He
seemed to realize it in its fullest sense.
	He felt more cheerful after he had re-
ceived his blessing, and went on with his
preparations for his journey. He attended
fast meeting the first Thursday in Septem-
ber, confirmed several of his children
whom he had baptized; named and blessed
the youngest and bore a faithful testimony.
	He started for his mission about the
14th, and arrived in the States in No-
vember. He wrote home to us frequent-
ly, and told us of his labors. In one of
his letters he spoke of the great darkness
and utter indifference in the minds of the
people regarding the Gospel, and made the

[Column 3]
remark that if it were not for the sake of
the Gospel and his family, he could change
worlds, with joy inexpressible.
	When the news of his death reached Salt
Lake City, the Presidency were spending
the holiday, July 24th, in Big Cottonwood
Canyon. As soon as they reached home,
they came to see us, and mingle their grief
and sorrow with ours.
	President Young said, referring to his
death: “Nothing has happened so hard to
reconcile my mind to, since the death of
Joseph; Brother Parley has done more good
on his short mission than many Elders will
do in their whole lives.”
	Mr. Pratt was one of the busiest and
hardest working men I ever knew. When
we were crossing the Plains, he drove the
largest wagon we had, with three yoke of
cattle; he would walk along side of them,
and the first thing you knew you would see
him three or four rods ahead. The slow
walk of the team could not keep pace with
his active mind. Often he would recollect,
turn back to his team, see that all was all
right, hurry them up, and do the same thing
again. When it came near camping time,
he would go ahead and look up a good place
for camping. His mind was ever on the
alert for the benefit of the company. When
we arrived here on the 28th of September,
we were tired and worn out, for the last
part of the journey was very hard on all.
	With little or no rest, he went to work
hunting up the resources of the country,
making roads to the canyons; getting out
logs for building houses; getting fire wood
and so on.
	He built several good comfortable log
rooms, a stable, put in a number of acres
of wheat; in fact, kept busy all the time.
He built four adobe houses, two of them
a story and a half, besides outbuildings;
made a road through Parley’s canyon; at-
tended faithfully to every ecclesiastical duty.
He went on two missions to California, in-
cluding Chile, South America, wrote and
published “The Key to Theology,” wrote
and compiled his Autobiography, besides
many other effusions in prose and verse.
	After the foregoing had been read to one
of my daughters, she said, “Why, mother,
you have not mentioned yourself.” I re-
plied, “No, I did not think of myself. I
was writing about your father.” She said,
“I think you ought to tell about being in
the canyon with father.”
	Well, he commenced his work on the
road in the summer of ’49. There were
a great many men in the east that had the
gold fever so bad that they left no stone
unturned to procure an outfit to get to the
gold mines of California, which had been
discovered by the Mormon Battalion boys.
	Many of them arrived in Salt Lake, utter-
ly worn out, and teams and wagons in bad
condition. They were obliged to stay a
while to get lighter wagons, exchange their
worn out horses (some were quite valuable)
for fresh ones. Some of them stayed over
to make a little means wherewith to prose-
cute their journey. Later on, these were
the men my husband hired to help make the
road through Parley’s Canyon. I went with
him to cook for them. Each man had his
own tin plate, cup, knife, fork, and spoon.
The food consisted mostly of bread baked
in bake kettle, meat, coffee and a little but-
ter. We had a small tent and a wagon to
sleep in. The men had a large tent to bunk


in and a long rough table to eat on. These
were at a distance from our quarters. I
would cook the food, and Mr. Pratt and
Parley, his son, would take it to them. We
would make camp in a shady place near the
creek. We would stay there till about two
miles of road was made, then move camp
and make another mile or two, and so on
through Parley’s Park to the Weber River,
where the road was completed, which was
some time in November. When we reached
the head of the canyon coming home, I said,
“Now let me get out and walk over the bad
places.” He said, “No, I want to be able
to say that a woman and baby came down
in safety.” (I forgot to say I had a babe
a year and a half old.) “I promise you no
harm shall happen to either of you.” I did
as he wished, and he drove the two yoke
of cattle with large wagons attached, to
the mouth of the canyon and home in per-
fect safety.
	I saw no wild beasts while there, but
often heard the wolves howl at night, and
would see their tracks. One day when
the men were busy chopping down trees
about a mile above the camp, a large griz-
zly bear came down the side of the canyon
towards the choppers. Each man grabbed
his axe, and climbed the nearest tree in a
lively manner. Mr. Bruin sniffed leisurely
around, looked at the men, then walked up
the other side over the top, and was seen
no more.


