tourists sought admission just to see this
wonderful little woman and show her their
esteem. To all she extended a cordial wel-
come, and delighted her visitors by relating
some of her experiences and showing to
some of the more favored ones her numer-
ous medals and decorations.
	Clarissa Harlowe Barton was born near
Oxford, Mass., on Christmas day, 1821.
For several years she taught school in her
native village, and later helped organize the
public school system in New Jersey by open-
ing a free school, beginning with six pupils
in a dilapidated old house and having at the
year’s end 600 pupils in a fine brick building
erected for her. She accepted a position in
the Patent office at Washington in 1853,
where her efficiency was most marked. Her
real life work, however, found its beginning
when the war broke out between the North
and the South. It was then that her atten-
tion was called to the lack of provision for
taking care of wounded soldiers on the bat-
tlefield and for bringing to the men comfort
and delicacies from home and friends. The
history of this part of her career forcibly
shows her skill in leadership and organiza-
tion as well as her courage, generosity and
tenderness. At the close of the war she
was appointed by President Lincoln to head
a commission to trace missing soldiers. After 
this sad and laborious task Miss Barton was
much broken down in health and she took
a vacation to Europe. While on this vaca-
tion and during her sojourn in Geneva she 
was invited to attend the meeting of public
utilities which, as those familiar with Red
Cross work already know, had established
an international relief work through the ef-
forts of Henri Dunant, whose feelings over
the lack of care of wounded soldiers at the
battle of Solferino had been so wrought upon 
that he had determined to bring about a
neutral condition for the distressed in times
of war. This resulted in the formation of
the Red Cross Society at Geneva in 1864;
but at that time only ten governments had
joined the society. In 1869 Miss Barton at-
tended the meeting of this society in Berne
and quickly realized the broadness and scope
of the work. While still in Europe the
Franco-Prussian war broke out, and at the
request of Dr. Appia and others of the Red
Cross committee she went to the front and
served as she had done during the Civil
War, only this time under more system and
organization. After the war and during the
terrible Commune at Paris which followed,
Clara Barton distributed relief to the people
of Paris, some of her best work being per-
formed during the seige of that city.
	After this all Europe sang her praises.
The Grand Duchess of Baden made Miss

[Column 3]
Barton chief assistant in the preparation of
the military hospitals. The Emperor of Ger-
many presented her with the Cross of Merit.
The Grand Duke of Baden gave her a
Red Cross brooch, the Gold Cross of Re-
membrance and the colors of Baden. When
Clara Barton returned to her own country
her first move was to try to persuade the
United States to sign the treaty of Geneva.
This treaty guaranteed protection and ex-
emption from capture to those who go on the
battlefield to care for the sick and wounded.
It made neutral all sick or disabled soldiers,
all persons as nurses or attendants, all sup-
plies of medicine or food for their use; all
field and military hospitals with their equip-
ments, all gifts from neutral nations for the
use of the sick and wounded of any army.
She waited nine weary years for this, gen-
erally conceded to be the most liberal of all
nations, to accept this treaty: but finally,
largely through the efforts of Secretary
James G. Blaine, success came—President
Garfield favored it but had not signed the
treaty at the time of his assassination, and
shortly after it was signed by President
Arthur.
	In the meantime, however, a few men and
women had formed an American National
Committee of the Red Cross which was re-
organized under President Garfield, he ap-
pointing Miss Barton president; and at her
suggestion the work of the society was
broadened to include in addition to work
on the battlefield, the relief of suffering in
times of all national calamities. Her work
now grew rapidly. The American society
was founded in 1881 and the same year the
great forest fires broke out in Michigan;
then followed in succession the Mississippi
floods and cyclone, the famine of Texas, the
Charleston earthquake, the Illinois cyclone
in 1888, the epidemic of yellow fever in
Florida, the awful Jownstown disaster in
1889, the Russian famine, the cyclone in
Iowa, the tidal wave that swept the South
Carolina Islands. She carried relief to strick-
en Armenia, and later was found waiting on
and helping the Cuban reconcentrados. Even
at her advanced age when the Spanish
American war broke out it was Clara Bar-
ton who headed the Red Cross nurses on
the Cuban battlefields and afterwards was
seen among the distressed in ocean-swept
Galveston. She resigned from active work
in the Red Cross in 1904 but the soldiers
and the people of this country will always
associate her with that great work and hold
her name in the greatest reverence.
	In 1905 she organized The National
First Aid Association; this is intended to
reach all accidents incident to daily life.
	Miss Barton was always an active suffra-
gist and an intimate friend of Miss An-
thony and her associates. It is rather inter-
esting to note the comments made on her
life in this regard by some of the leading
newspapers. For instance, the Detroit
Journal asks: “Will the life of any future
woman, with all the franchises and liberties
which the future grants, accomplish a work
like that done by this woman of the past


generations?” And the St. Louis Globe
Democrat says: “The fact that she did so
much in ninety years without the ballot can
be used either for or against woman suf-
frage;” but the New York Evening Post is
sure that “Those who object to giving wom-
en the ballot will find Miss Barton and Miss
Nightingale hard to explain away.”
	While her name is linked with that of
Florence Nightingale, the heroine of the
Crimea, it must be conceded that her work
was even greater and more far-reaching.
She was not only a ministering angel to the
sick and distressed but she carried her work
to the “firing line” and was in the front
of the battle. The press generally concedes
that she is our greatest national heroine and
the equal of any soldier or statesman of the
Civil war, “because she was the most per-
fect incarnation of mercy the modern world
has known.”
	While the nation has lost a heroine, the
women have lost a friend. Clara Barton for
many years has been a striking figure at the
assemblies of the National Councils of Wom-
en and suffrage conventions, and was well
known by many of our leading Utah women.
She has been an intimate correspondent and
particular friend of Mrs. Wells, President
of the Relief Society, who was recipient of
both her books, “The Story of the Red
Cross” and “Clara Barton’s Childhood” as
well as her portrait with autograph presen-
tation and sentiment. Their work has been
so similiar and all their activities so general-
ly in sympathy with each other that it is
not strange that these two should have been
drawn together. The women of their gene-
ration are the pioneers in the advanced work
of the women of today. To them all honor
and all praise.
