[Column 2]
the best results from their study; the duty
of mothers; the influence our organizations
should have, not only at home for good,
but abroad as well; temple work and the
necessity of teaching our sons and daugh-
ters that it is best to begin life aright by
being married in the temple, etc. Presi-
dent Elizabeth W. Layton presided at this
meeting. A number of the brethren were
present and gave valuable assistance. Jo-
sephine Kimball gave a short talk, also
Sister Mary Ransome of the Union Stake.
	After benediction by Bishop Tyler, meet-
ing adjourned till 2 p. m.
	The time of the afternoon meeting was
given over to the Relief Society, after the
administration of the Sacrament by the
ward authorities. The presidency of the
stake, and many prominent men were pres-
ent. First Counselor Selena Phillips pre-
sided. The Academy band, led by Prof.
Claydon, discoursed several beautiful selec-
tions. Prof. E. M. W. Jones assisted with
the singing, and Mrs. Fred. Jacobson ren-
dered a sacred solo. In her opening re-
marks, President E. W. Layton welcomed
all the sisters, urged that we be faithful in
our duties and to the Priesthood of God.
Touched upon the subject of tithing, child-
culture, keeping holy the Sabbath day, and
exhorted all to faithfulness and diligence.
A lesson talk on disease germs and the pre-
vention of diseases was given in an inter-
esting manner by Sister Henrietta Nash.
Sister Ransome bore a faithful testimony,
and gave words of love and encourage-
ment. Sister Alice K. Beebe, president of
the Layton Ward Relief Society, who is
soon to make her home in a different stake,
said how much the sisters had become en-
deared to her heart; that she loved to work
with them for they were a noble band, and
no matter where her lot was cast, she would
always look back with pleasure on her work
in the Relief Society in this part of the
Lord’s vineyard. She bore her testimony.
Second Counselor Frances W. Kimball gave
an eulogistic talk on the life of our beloved
“Aunt Em,” which was followed by one
of her beautiful poems, read with much
feeling by Sister Ella Birdno. President
Nash quoted, “Be ye perfect, even as our
Father is heaven is perfect,” and made a
splendid and encouraging talk relative to
the duties of the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety. He also emphasized what had been
said in regard to sanitation, showing in
many instances where knowledge of the
causes of disease was to have power over
them. Invoked heaven’s blessings upon the
Relief Society organizations.
	Conference was adjourned for six
months. The benediction was pronounced
by President Charles M. Layton.
		JOSEPHINE C. KIMBALL,
						Secretary.


