[Column 2]
Woods;” George Teasdale as Hecate in
“Macbeth;” Julia Dean, Nellie Colebrook,
Asenath Adams, Susie Spencer, the bright
soubrette, “Toddy” Clive, the danseuse,
John C. Graham, Henry Maiben, and so on,
many familiar figures portraying before our
eyes tragedy, drama and comedy, and what
an education it was! People scarcely read
Shakespeare now, and yet in those old
theater days the stock companies regaled us
with the plays of Sheridan and Shakespeare
and other immortals until we children knew
them ourselves by heart. Perhaps one of the
most popular plays to the childish mind
was the “Octoroon” and certainly no one
who witnessed that play will ever forget
the splendid McCloskey of David McKen-
zie;” the Indian of oJhn T. Caine; the
Salem Scudder of John S. Lindsay, or the
post boy of Dellie Clawson.
	How the scenes shift, and now on the
stage appear Couldock and his frail daugh-
ter, who came here at last to die and found
a resting place on the eastern hillside.
Then the beautiful Annie Lockhart as
Parthenia, in “Ingomar,” and “Lady’s
Audley’s Secret,” and when she also died
while filling an engagement here it seemed
to me that one of the brightest stars had left
us. Later when “Jimmy” Harris was man-
ager, and we had a painted curtain and
the city boasted a gas plant, there came en-
tertainment in lighter vein and the little
girl’s eyes were dazzled and her brain be-
wildered by the transformation scenes of
“The Nymph of the Lurleiburg” and the
wondrous colors of the “Fairy Fountain”—
even in this day with all the wonderful
color effects produced by electricity the
colors of that fountain seem to me incom-
parably beautiful.
	But, goodness, the opera is over, the as-
bestos curtain has fallen and the dispers-
ing audience calls me back from my dreams.
As I rise in my seat I see the familiar form
of Hiram Clawson just passing out of his
seat a short distance before me, the last time
I ever looked upon him, for before a month
had passed he, too, had gone to join the
innumerable hosts on the other side.
