[Column 1]
teachers and extend their influence to
others. The Relief Society workers should
be prudent, they should look after the essen-
tial part of the work. The purpose of or-
ganization was not to enrich any one; it is
not a money-getting institution for means
to be spent in pleasure. The means is used
for the legitimate purposes for which it is
gathered. It is not for the well, the strong,
the able; it is for the poor and helpless; but
it is better to help those who do not deserve
than to under-help the needy ones. All
who are in need should be helped even if
they are not Latter-day Saints. It is our
duty to help them, to minister to them and to
teach them the principles of the Gospel.
Nobody in need should be neglected.
	President Smith asked the Lord to bless
the sisters in their homes and in their work
abroad. The mothers in Israel should be
as good as they expect their husbands to be,
and the husbands should be as good as they
expect their wives to be.
	Contralto solo, “The Earth is the Lord’s,”
by Dot McMillan Bolto.
	President E. B. Wells felt highly honored
that President Smith took time to favor us
with this splendid address, and she was sure
we would always remember and appreciate
this courtesy shown to us.
	The following presidents of stakes spoke
briefly on the general work of the organiza-
tion and gave reports of conditions in their
respective stakes:
	Sisters Rebecca Standring of Alpine
stake; Minerva Knowlton of Davis; Sarah
Stohl of Boxelder, and Leonora T. Har-
rington of Granite.
	Duet, “God Be With You Till We Meet
Again,” by Lizzie Thomas Edward and Dot
McMillan Bolto.
	Benediction was pronounced by Sister
Priscilla P. Jennings.
		SECOND DAY.
	MORNING SESSION, 10 A. M.
	April 4, 1912. After singing, “Re-
deemer of Israel,” opening prayer was of-
fered by Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
Piano duet, from Hayden’s second sym-
phony, given by Miss Edna Coray and Mrs.
Orpha R. Walker.
	Congregation sang, “Softly Beams the
Sacred Dawning.”
	President Emmeline B. Wells gave a brief

