[Column 1]
	“Woman,” says St. Thomas Aquinas,
“Woman is a rapidly growing weed, an im-
perfect being! Her body attains maturity
more rapidly than man’s only because it is
of less value, and Nature is engaged less in
her making. Women are born to be eter-
nally maintained under the yoke of their
lords and masters, who are endowed by Na-
ture with superiority in every respect, and
therefore destined to rule.”
	“Woman,” thunders Tertullian, “Woman!
you ought to go about clad in mourning and
in rags, your eyes filled with tears of re-
morse, to make us forget that you have been
mankind’s destruction! Woman, you are
the Gate of Hell!”
	What I wish to do for a few minutes is
gravely to consider how we can improve this
so-called Gate of Hell. * *
	I would educate her—educate her high-
ly, educate her deeply, educate her broad- 
ly. I would let up on accomplishments.
Less embroidery, more physics, chem-
istry and biology; less bridge, more
mathematics, history and philosophy; less
Sordello, more economics and sociology;
fewer chafing-dish recipes, and more do-
mestic science; fewer pseudo-graces, and
more knowledge and love of humanity; less
talk about great names, and more familiar-
ity with what made them great; far less of
the purely feminine, and far more of the
highly human.
	As a man thinketh so he is. As a woman
thinketh so she is. The mind becomes that
which it contemplates. Regard the wide
universe, not with a vacant and idle stare,
but ponderingly; sooner or later you will be-
come universal. Look always upon a sphere
small in diameter, small in circumference,
and your mind will hold that sphere and no
more. It may have its beauty, that asteroid,
its hothouse flowers and its Chinese trees,
but you will miss the stars at midnight, the
salt of the sea, and the winds that blow
from afar.
	The intuitive power of woman is very
great. When to this is added intellectual
power, when the vine of the mind, which in
woman has been made for countless gen-
erations to lie prone, to run idly, to waste all
its strength and sweetness—when the vine
of her mind is raised, trained upon the trellis
of knowledge, watered, warmed, enriched,
tended, kept in the sunshine of companion-
ship, of broad thinking, of great social and
human ideals, then, indeed, will we build
her up with nobility and with power!
Train her mind, teach it broad and altruistic
thinking, open to it the doors of human ex-
perience, change it from a bit of carbon in
a forgotten room to a noble, flashing jewel,
from a small, stagnating pool to a crystal
spring giving life and joy to all the fields
around, and, strange and strange to say, in
the measure that you mete to woman, in
that measure will enlightenment be meted to
the human race. Give to her the breadth
which comes from communion, not with one
or two, but with many minds, give her free-
dom of thought, give her the larger touch,
the vital warmth, the electric spark, give her
largeness of horizon, give her light—and in
just that degree and measure will you give
to the human species breadth and sweep and
vital warmth and growth and light! 
	Sometimes, even under the heavy beams
and rafters with which the ages have closed
her in; under the roof, so pretty sometimes
with gables and bright tiles and flower-pots
and tinkling bells like a pagoda, and some-

