[Column 1]
REMINISCENCES OF MRS. A. AGATHA
			PRATT.
	I do not think it necessary to speak at
this time of the public life of my husband,
the late Apostle Parley P. Pratt, as that is a
matter of history known to his descendants
and the readers of his life and his works.
	As an orator, author, poet, statesman, and
able expounder of the Gospel and its prin-
ciples, which he so dearly loved, he will ever
live in the memory of those who have heard
him, and will become more precious as the
years roll on.
	For the sake of his descendants and in
justice to his beloved and venerated mem-
ory, I wish to speak of his private life; as a
husband, father, and friend. He was a
gentleman, born so. He had an innate reve-
rence and respect for woman as the mother
of the souls of men. He loved his wives,
not only as the beloved of his bosom, but
as the mothers of his children, whom he
loved very dearly. I heard a lady ask him,
“Brother Pratt, when did you first fall in
love?” He replied, “When I was a babe
in my mother’s arms, and looked up into
her tender loving eyes, I fell in love, and
have been in love ever since.” 
	Amid all our poverty, toil and care and
the difficulties and perplexities and inex-
periences, he would sometimes have occa-
sion to reprove or admonish; he would do
it in a manner to touch the heart—make a
lasting impression, but never leave a hu-
miliating sting.
	His wives always knew that he respected
them and cared for their feelings. As a
father, he was kind and gentle and hailed
each new-comer with as much pleasure and
delight as if it were the only one. One of
the greatest pleasures of his life was to
gather them round his knees, holding as
many as he could, and have them sing their
sweet childish songs, often trying to join
in with them, as he dearly loved music and
singing, and always, when possible, he
would have his family gather together for
family worship; we would always sing a
suitable hymn, then kneel down and dedi-
cate his family, himself and all he had, to
the Lord.
	As a friend, he was true, sincere and very
hospitable. In times of famine and scarci-
ty when sometimes we would not know
where the next meal was coming from, he
would say, “If any one comes in hungry,
ask them to sit up and eat.”
	His confidence in God was unbounded,
and he would go to Him and ask Him for
what he needed, as a child would go to its
father, with the same childlike simplicity.
I have seen his prayers answered almost
before he had finished his supplication. He
was very sociable, in those early days we
used to visit a good deal, we seemed to have
more time then than we have now. Two 
or three of us would go with him to some
friend’s house, where, in the course of con-
versation, he would be led to speak upon
some interesting subject that would instruct
and entertain all, and make the time pass
very profitably and pleasantly, and it still
remains as a happy memory to the few of
those dear old friends who still survive.
	Mr. Pratt was the father of thirty chil-
dren, fifteen sons and fifteen daughters,
twenty-three of whom survived him.
	I do not know how many descendants
there are; I have myself over a hundred.
	There were five brothers:—Anson, Wil-

