[Column 2]
	The Ladies' quartet sang, "Christ is
Risen From the Dead."
	Elder Joseph F. Smith, Jr., then addressed
the assembly on the subject of "Genealogy"
and "The Salvation of the Dead." He
urged the necessity of the members of the
Relief Society becoming interested, and of
actually engaging themselves in this great
work of collecting records and of officiating
for the dead. In order to accomplish the
great plan of redemption it is necessary that
those who died without hearing the Gospel
shall have salvation. It is a great privilege
given the Latter-day Saints to attend to this
work. The Lord has even declared that it
is an obligation we owe to our dead kindred.
According to the plan of salvation we are all
kindred, with Father Adam at the head,
who will rule over us as a united whole.
How can we be linked together if we fail
to go to the Temple and perform the neces-
sary ordinances for our fathers and mothers
who did not receive the privilege? If we
fail the links cannot be joined and the chain
cannot be completed.
	Elder Smith spoke of the great work be-
ing done by the genealogical societies in the
Eastern States as well as in England and of
the benefits we may receive from their com-
pilations. The Genealogical Society of
Utah is putting forth every effort to raise
funds to secure the general records of these
organizations. The work of salvation for
the dead was compared with our missionary
work. It was stated that we are spending
hundreds of thousands of dollars for the
preaching of the Gospel which is, of course,
very necessary; but what are we spending
in behalf of the dead?
	The quartet sang, "Who Are These Ar-
rayed in White?"
	Counselor Julina L. Smith was the next
speaker. She continued along the line of
Temple work and reported that a commit-
tee on Temple clothing, of which she was
chairman, had prepared Temple suits for the
use of those who desire to work in the Tem-
ple, and also suits for burial purposes.
	Violin solo, Romania Hyde.
	Closing hymn, "God Moves in a Mys-
terious Way."
	Benediction, Mrs. Rebecca Standring,
President Alpine Stake.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Congregation sang, "Our Mountain
Home So Dear."
	Prayer, Alvira Cox of South Sanpete
Stake.
	Singing, "Come, Come Ye Saints."
	Mrs. Susan Grant of the General Board
bore her testimony to the truthfulness of
the Gospel and the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith.
	She was followed by Margaret Manning
of Bear River Stake, who reported her stake
in good condition. She stated that on
March 17, 1912, all the wards in the Bear
River Stake had uniform programs which
were printed and given to the members as
souvenirs.
	Soprano solo, "Teach Me to Pray," was
given by Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, after
which Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert addressed
the assembly. She felt it a great privilege
to work in the Relief Society organization
and bore testimony to the great good done
by this organization. Urged the members

[Column 3]
to be diligent in training their children and
to set the children a good example.
	President Joseph F. Smith then addressed
the congregation on the importance of Relief
Society work, and the duties and responsi-
bilities of its members. He stated that he
has always maintained that the Relief So-
ciety organization is one of the most im-
portant organizations in the Church. It in-
augurated a movement in favor of women
that had never been known before. Its ob-
jects and purposes are among the greatest
that affect the well-being, happiness and
prosperity of the human family. It is a
pleasure to know that the organizations in
both stakes and wards are actively engaged
in the work at hand. This work is like all
the rest of the labors and responsibilities of
women. It has no specific period of begin-
ning and we don't know when it will end.
"Man's work is from sun to sun, but wom-
an's work is never done." The labor, duty,
and responsibility involved in the work are
of the nature that appeals and applies to
the character of womankind. The members
never know when they will be appealed to
for aid or counsel. Their services are al-
ways in demand. Their duties are mul-
titudinous and will continue as long as we
are mortal and are possessed of human
weaknesses and necessities. The sisters are
important help in the work of the Lord.
The Kingdom of God could not prosper and
flourish but for the mothers and daugh-
ters. "Man is not without the woman and
woman is not without the man in the Lord."
It is as necessary for mothers in Zion as
for fathers—certainly there would be no
fathers without mothers. We cannot do
without each other, mother and father,
brother and sister, are equally essential in
building up Zion.
	President Smith referred very feelingly
to his own mother who was a faithful
woman and Latter-day Saint. She was
patient, forbearing and long-suffering, and
she taught her children to love the Gospel
and to be true to the Church; and every one
has been true according to his knowledge.
Mothers should realize the great responsi-
bility resting upon them as mothers. The
influence of the mother during the youth of
her children is greater than that of any one
else. The child grows up into her like-
ness, thoughts, religion, sympathy and de-
sires and a very great deal depends on the
training the mother gives, before the child
is responsible for its own acts. Some par-
ents are fortunate in the training of their
children, and some are unfortunate not-
withstanding the fact that they have done
their best. When parents have done their
duty, taught their children the truth, taught
them to pray and to have faith in God, and
have brought them to manhood and woman-
hood, their responsibility ends; and if the
children (after all this training and example,
by those who have loved them more than
their own lives) should go astray the re-
sponsibility falls on their own shoulders and
the parents will not be blamed for it. It
is only when parents have been derelict in
their duty that the responsibility falls back
on them. What a blessed condition when
the children have kept the faith and have
been obedient to their parents! One of the
duties of the members of this organization
is to help others in the rearing of their
children. All members should be diligent


