PHYLLIS MORTON'S BIRTHDAY GIFT 531
Jack Morton walked briskly toward his home. He had left the office a little early, that he might take Phyllis out for a drive into the country, as it was her birthday; and she had complained that it was lonesome, driving alone out away from the city, but he knew she loved the trips, out away from the crowded city streets, into the shady lanes, and through sandy stretches, enjoying the sights of nature, unmolested by the hand of man. He must go with her oftener. As he remembered her this morning, it seemed that she was a trifle pale. His home was first on the corner of the block, and as he turned the corner he saw a little boy, a mere baby, crossing the street, coming toward his home. The child seemed to have his eyes set on something, on this side of the street, and came joyously seeking it, heeding not the harm that might come to him on the busy street. A big car came down the street toward him. Another came up the street and turned up the side avenue. The man in the big car turned his attention to the car that passed, not noticing the mite of a child until it was too late to stop in time, for the child was not more than ten feet away. As he threw on the brakes, his heart sank, and a sickening fear came over him. Just as he threw on the brake, a voice shouted stop! And a man sprang, with the dexterity of an athlete, just in time, yes, thank heaven! Just in time to save the little child unhurt. "A pretty close call," Jack said, trembling with excitement, as he stepped back to the walk with the frightened child clinging to him. "Yes it was a bad scare. Not a pleasant thing to run into a little fellow like that. He's a fine little chap. I am much obliged to you Mr.," the man in the car said gratefully. "Some fine leap you made, just in the nick of time, too, I tell you. Sorry I scared you so, sonny. It scared me, too. You must stay with your mother, laddie, then you won't get hurt." "Yes, sonny, where's your mother? What are you doing out here? Where do you live?" Jack asked the child. "She's over there in the house; I live just over there. I want to see that dog. I want to play with doggie. I was over by our gate, and heard him barking. He wants me to play with him." "What dog? You must go back to mother, she will think you are lost. I'll take you back across the street, so any more cars won't hurt you." And as he turned toward the child's home, little Bobby cried desperately, "I want to see the doggie, pretty, little, white doggie." Jack Morton thought of the little dog he had given Phyllis that morning, and as he looked toward the house, he saw the little, white, fluffy thing, chained securely to a shade tree, jumping up and down, and whining pitifully.


"Pretty doggie, I want to play with him,' Bobby continued as he patted Jack's cheek coaxingly, with his fat chubby hand. Jack could not resist the childish entreaties, and carried him into the yard and untied the dog, Bobby clapping his hands in delight, as the dog jumped upon him and began to play. As Jack watched the happy child he thought of a little dog his father had brought home to him when he was a little fellow, how it had delighted him. "Of course, little dogs are for children, not for women like Phyllis." "Do you like the little dog, sonny?" Jack asked kindly. "Yes, I like it. Is this your little boy's dog, where is your little boy? I want to play with him, too." "Where is my boy? Why?why, I have no little boy." "Oh, do little girls like dogs? Where's she?" "I haven't a little girl, either." "No little boy or girl? Then who plays with the little dog?" "He's my?why he's my little dog," Jack said, abashed. Why should he feel so foolish, to confess that it was his, hadn't he bought it for his wife's birthday gift? "Come, Bobby; is that your name? I'll tell my wife where I am going, then I must take you home, or they will worry about you." Jack went from room to room, looking all about the house for Phyllis. As he moved about, even his foot-falls seemed to echo and resound through the house, all was so silent. Never before had it seemed so still, although many times he had found Phyllis away. Thinking his wife to be out at some club, or perhaps shopping, he felt disappointed that he could not spend the afternoon with her. Then, remembering the child, he hurriedly left the house. For a moment he stood on the step, watching the happy child and the dog at play. What a beautiful picture! Bobby's golden hair, shining in the sun, and large blue eyes, sparkling with happiness, as the dog, rejoicing at his freedom, bounded and danced about, with little sharp barks of delight. Bobby's two ruddy lips parted in exclamations of childish glee, then ripples of laughter, brought two merry dimples, dancing like whirlpools on round, rosy cheeks. Jack gazed fascinated at the sight, and though he knew he should go, yet he stood and watched, as he did so, he thought how near a father's dreams, and hopes and plans, for this lovely little son, had come to being ended, had he not saved him. As he thought of dreams and plans of his neighbor, he stopped to ponder on his own, and he realized how narrow and selfish his had been. Plans for just two; plans for all that makes for easy living, ever shirking the hard or that which brought responsibility and care. Dreams and hopes, had he any? As his mind turned to the future, he saw Phyllis and himself, old and lonely, no one to love them; no one to care. Then perhaps, we will be weary of
PHYLLIS MORTON'S BIRTHDAY GIFT 533
our shallow, aimless life; possibly all our frail bubbles shall have burst, and our hearts may grow hungry for someone to cheer us, but the world is too busy to care. Jack was stirred from his reverie, by hearing voices calling Bobby from the opposite side of the street. He hastily went to the child; lifting him to one arm and the dog to the other he hurried toward the little boy's home. The little fat arm of the child went around Jack's shoulder trustingly, and strange little thrills went through him, that he had never felt before. He realized a little then of what he had been missing.
* 
o 
Hal and Ruth came in from the yard, where the children had been playing. Bobby not being with them, Mrs. Mason asked, "where's Bobby, children?" and at the answer, "We thought he came in the house," Beth and Phyllis started to find him. As Phyllis reached the front porch with baby Betty in her arms, she saw Jack coming up the walk with Bobby. The sight of Jack with a child, with its arms about his neck, was a lovely sight to Phyllis. "Where did you find him? Where has he been?' The two women asked in chorus, as Beth at that moment came around the house. "He came over to play with the doggie, didn't you, Bobby?" Jack said smiling at the child. "Oh! Across the street and I didn't even miss you. Bobby, darling, it is a wonder you're alive." Bobby forgetting everything but the fluffy dog, forgot to tell of the big car that almost ran over him, and Jack thinking it just as well that Beth did not know, never mentioned the narrow escape her little son had had. "But how did you happen to be home? I thought you were at the office,' Phyllis said. "I came home early, as it is your birthday. I thought you might like to take a ride into the country." "I shall enjoy it ever so much," Phyllis answered sweetly. Jack smiled, as he saw what a lovely picture she made, with the beautiful babe in her arms. "Let's give the dog to Bobby, Jack, it is his birthday, too. He seems to love it so." "Yes, a good idea. I think perhaps Bobby will like it even better than you do, eh, Phyllis?" Jack asked with a mischievous twinkle in his eyes. Phyllis smiled back at him, then, as she and Jack left and walked back to their home, there was more of comradeship, more of mutual feelings, than there had ever been in those ten years they had been married.


Just one year had passed, since little Bobby Mason had stirred Jack Morton's soul, and awoke him to a new life. Today he did not go out searching for something to give his wife, to make her happy and satisfied with life. Phyllis lay pale, but smiling into Jack's dark eyes, as he sat by her bed and held her little white hand. In a dainty bassinette, beside them, lay their little son. Proudly Jack gazed at the tiny bundle, then looking at the lovely little woman beside him, he held her hand more closely. "How could I have been so blind? Dear one, how can you forgive me? We might have had this happiness ten years ago, but I have tried to crush the natural longings of your woman's soul, and fill your life with the paltry pleasures, and showy gifts of man. Phyllis, I have cheated you." Tears of joy glistened in the little mother's eyes, as she spoke tenderly, "Don't Jack, now I have waited and longed for it so long, I perhaps shall love it more, and now we have the gift; this Precious birthday gift from God; a human soul, to love and train and nurture. May we be worthy of the gift."
AN APPROPRIATE GIFT for CHRISTMAS, MOTHER'S DAY, BIRTHDAY or any occasion Is a Year's Subscription to THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Send the names and addresses of those to whom you wish the Magazine sent as a gift, and the management will send cards bearing the following description:

 BISHOP'S BUILDING SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Announces with pleasure that Mrs. John Jones has subscribed for the Magazine for the coming year as a gift to Mrs. June White
A really valuable gift for $1.00.