[Vol6 | April 1919 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Home | Title: LESSON IV Home Courses ADOLESCENCE]

LESSON IV. Home Courses. ADOLESCENCE
======================================================================

LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in May. ADOLESCENCE. The actual duration of the period of adolescence extends up to the twentieth year, during which certain substances, secreted by various glands, circulate in the blood and stimulate remarkable developments. Adolescence may be defined as the process of growing up from childhood to manhood and womanhood. It generally extends in the life of a boy from about 11 to 24 or 25 years, and that of a girl from about 12 to 21 or 22 years of age, but there are considerable individual variations. Too often the term of adolescence is confined to the period of puberty, which is but one stage in the process of adolescent growth. Each phase must be lived through, if maturity is to be complete; should normal processes be arrested, warped or overstimulated, development is unbalanced and maturity is consequently incomplete. The actual incidence of puberty is much influenced by race, climate, nutrition and type of environment; for instance, this period is hastened by overstimulating diet, heat, and abnormal excitement associated with life in a city or town. There is no closely defined age law for this stage of development; in fact, it may vary with individuals all the way from the age of 12 up to that of 17 or 18, and yet be normal at these different age periods. For example, a boy or girl may be immature at 17, while another will reach puberty at the age of 13. Thus individuals, though externally similar, are actually widely different in capacity for self control, concentration, endurance and exertion; qualities much strengthened after this stage has been attained. Dr. Ward Crampton's Tables show that, at the same chronological age, the mature boy is more than 33 percent heavier, 10 percent taller, and 33 percent stronger than the immature; that is, than his companions who have not yet arrived at puberty. Adolescence may be divided into three periods, described by their distinguishing characteristics as follows: (1) Consolidation, (I) Consolidation, or the age of adjustment, extending from about the 10th to the 14th year. This period is marked by a steady growth, increased muscular coordination, good health and a receptive memory, which makes the child peculiarly adaptable to the formation of habits that will prove of lifelong benefit. Good building stones in the platform of Adolescence are similar to those for earlier childhood, namely: (1) Regular schooling, (2) Muscular exercise, (3) Varied surroundings, (4) Good food, (5) Abundant sleep. (II) Crisis, or puberty, is the second period in adolescence, and covers the interim between fourteen and eighteen, in which growth is extremely rapid; there is a considerable amount of mental perturbation combined with a tendency to certain physiological disturbances. The process of transition from girlhood to puberty is of greater complexity than in the case of boys, therefore, while it is beneficial for the latter to be abundantly active and constantly occupied, girls need more leisure and repose, sufficient but supervised exercise, and precautions against competitive exertion, mental or physical. Full as it is of contradiction and exaggerations, with inevitable instability, this phase has been nevertheless described as a physiological second birth. It is the golden age of life in healthy natures. Feelings are intense, though usually short lived; a craving for sympathy is accompanied by corresponding reserve; lines of development take new directions and changes are very sudden both in body and mind. Some of these normal changes may be briefly enumerated: (1) Physical developments at Puberty. (a) Greater blood pressure consequent on rapid growth in size of the heart, (b) Slight rise in body temperature; (c) Increase of red blood corpuscles; (d) Bust development and rapid growth of hip bones in girls; (e) Change of features, etc. There is often perversity in respect of judicious care of health in both sexes at this age and fanciful fads in appetite. Weak points, such as eye strain, lung delicacy, etc., may manifest themselves, often the deferred results of early mismanagement, hitherto unperceived, or tendencies inherited from ancestors. (2) Mental developments of Puberty. (a) All the senses become more acute. It is (b) the Period of hero worship and ideals; of (c) Resentment against authority, of (d) Intense but short lived selfishness; of (e) Sudden growth in sense of responsibility; of (f) Religious emotion, of (g) Love of solitude, of (h) Self consciousness; which phases alternate and continue for varying periods, often causing great perplexity and tension to parents, teachers or employers. (III) Construction is the third period, one as little popularly recognized as the first, but of immense importance. This period extends until physical growth is complete, and should be distinguished by steady development of the controlling capacity of the brain. Between the years of 18 and 23 or 24, there should be a marked development of self control in every relation. This quality must be stimulated and regulated along right lines, to diffuse high moral standards and a universal sense of civic duty. Selfishness is anti-social and barbaric. The brain faculty of most life long importance is control of self; this calls for special training in these years or the results are serious to men and women, who become mature in respect of animal passions, but remain at childhood's level in regard to self control. The tendency to release young people prematurely from all physical control must be checked. Implicit obedience of course can no longer be imposed, but should be superseded by sympathetic suggestion; and unrecognized but nevertheless constant supervision. The undesirable is sometimes attractive because of narrow experience. More experienced elders must divert attention to the desirable, through well considered substitutions of the safe for the questionably safe. A patient study of adolescence actions often reveals them to be the logical outcome of limited knowledge. The natural craving for companionship should be guided to its satisfaction rather in out door sports and hobbies than in a preponderance of social functions. Late hours and associated excitements stimulate along lines better unemphasized at this period of life. Opportunities for wider and more responsible duties must be gradually introduced, always with the aim in view of producing the efficient adult, rather than the proficient adolescent. The hygiene of sex must be properly taught, and the instinct to perpetuate life carefully trained. This power is the greatest gift to mankind; curiosity as to its use should be satisfied truthfully and gradually as it arises; and physical passion should be associated with the higher emotions of love, honor, chivalry, and self respect. A sense of responsibility for parenthood should be aroused and provision made for the necessary training of both boys and girls, for the duty of rearing healthy families devolves equally on father and mother, and skilled cooperation of effort is necessary to safeguard child life in the homes of the nation. REFERENCES. Hygiene of the School Child, Terman. Chapts. 16-20-21. Individual in the Making, Kirkpatrick, Chapts. 8-9. Houghton, Mifflin Co., Chicago, Ill. Child Life ? Its Development and Care, A. Ravenhill, page 72, etc., Utah Agricultural College, Logan Utah. QUESTIONS. 1. Into what periods may adolescence be divided and how are these distinguished? 2. What are the special physical requirements of young people during this process of development? 3. How does the period of puberty effect the national problem of Child Labor? 4. What is necessary to the development of self control in maturity? 5. Give an outline of the course of training for parenthood which you consider appropriate. ERRATA. The picture of Mrs. Vilate Kimball in the March number, in "The History of the Organization of the Relief Society," was named as Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney. While there are no meetings The Clean Store is a good time to read S. S. Dickinson Company "Love and Light" QUALITY FIRST By O. F. Whitney Meats and Groceries $1.25 at the SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION Hyland 60, 61 and 62 680 East 2nd South Street BOOK STORE The Book Store of Salt Lake City "R-E-A-L S-E-R-V-I-C-E" 44 East on South Temple Street Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS KEISTER Our Ladies' Tailoring College Simplified System, of Cutting, Fitting, DRESSMAKING AND TAILORING Will give you an occupation or fit you for home duties in that line. Information Free. Visitors Welcome 291 Center Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH LANE ELECTRIC VACUUM CLEANER LET EARDLEY BROS. DO IT 37 East First South - - Salt Lake City, Utah Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDSEN 249 MAIN STREET Better Work Because Better Equipment Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalogue furnished on request 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah "Say It With Flowers" Order from our ever fresh supply. Prompt delivery. Courtesy our motto. Funeral Designs our specialty. CHILD FLORAL CO. With DRUEL DRUG CO. 2nd South and Main. Busy Corner. Phone W. 700 "Best Meals in the City Popular Prices Quick, Clean Service Courteous Treatment STATE CAFETERIA WE SERVE THE BEST ON THE MARKET 121 South Main Street, N. J. Buller, Prop. Wasatch 2444 Salt Lake City, Utah The Big Spring Quarter at the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Opens Monday, March 24th An excellent opportunity is offered to begin or continue your education. Make a Success in Life as One of the Following: YOUNG WOMEN YOUNG MEN Homemaker Practical Farmer Salesman Home Economics Expert Practical Stock Raiser Auto Mechanic Dietitian Agricultural Expert Gas Engine Expert Teacher Tractor Expert Soils Expert Draftsman Institutional Manager Crops Expert Surveyor Cafeteria Manager Dairy Expert Teacher Social Worker Butter and Cheese Maker Chemist Nurse Animal Husbandman Physicist Electrician Dress Maker Poultry Husbandman Milliner Agricultural Engineer Public Health Expert Musician Expert Machinist Expert Accountant Bookkeeper Iron Worker Bookkeeper Stenographer Foundry Man Business Administrator Cabinet Worker Stenographer Typewriter Accountant Office Manager Banker Typewriter Office Manager Full information regarding the work of the Institution will be furnished upon application to the President, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. Relief Society Magazine Mothers in Israel: ? The Relief Society Magazine greets you: not so much for what you have done as for what you are. Not only for your motherhood, great and glorious as that has been, but also for your wifehood and womanhood. Continue in your simple way of being and doing, for in that way lies the path to the kingdom of heaven. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints No. 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year? Single Copy 10c L. D. S. GARMENTS APPROVED CORRECT PATTERN Prepaid Parcel Post to any part of United States. 15c extra on each garment to Canada or Mexico. THESE approved temple garments are knitted and made right here in our own UTAH FACTORY, to your special order and measurements. Lowest prices on market. Mail your order to us now and say you saw it in the "Relief Society Magazine." Lot No. Price 11 ? Light weight cotton $1.50 20 ? Light weight cotton, bleached 1.70 60 ? Medium weight cotton 1.85 22 ? Medium weight cotton, bleached 2.00 90 ? Heavy weight cotton 2.35 24 ? Heavy weight cotton, bleached 2.60 50 ? Extra white double, bleached Mores 3.00 10 ? Medium weight wool mixture 3.00 16 ? Heavy weight wool 3.50 18 ? Extra heavy wool 5.00 Sizes from 32 to 44 bust, and 52 to 64 length, as desired. Longer than 64 in. or over 44 in. bust, each size 20c extra. Garments with double backs 25c extra per suit, we make any size desired. Measure bust around body under arms, length, from center on top of shoulder down to inside of ankle INFANT SHIRTS ? Silkaline and Lamb's Wool, $1.00 each. State baby's age. MODEL KNITTING WORKS Franklyn Christiansen, Manager 657 IVERSON STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Phone Hy. 616 This beautiful Instrument will be sent to Your Home to charm Your Family evenings and entertain Your Friends when they drop in-IF YOU SAY THE WORD. $100. $12 Down and $8 a Month Including 24 Selections SALT LAKE "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH" It's a Treat ? to eat delicious, appetizing, body - building, healthful bread and butter. There is no better food. The loaf of supreme quality is ROYAL BREAD The bread that made mother stop baking Every loaf is perfectly baked to a tempting nut-brown, and comes to grocers ? in every western town ? fresh every day. Royal Baking Co. SALT LAKE THRIFT IS POWER BUY W.S.S. SAVE AND SUCCEED. A thrifty nation is a Gibraltar against the surf of anarchy and revolution and all the destructive forces that follow in the wake of extravagance, thoughtless,  blind living. SAVE AND BUY W.S.S. Victory Liberty Bond stands the Treasury of the United States ? the untold wealth of a vast and powerful nation. That makes it safe! Bach, of every Victory Liberty Bond is the clarion call of duty. That makes it patriotic! Bach of every Victory Liberty Bond is Government interest. That makes it good investment! Buy to your limit ? today