[Vol7 | May 1920 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Flowers of Earth and Heaven]

FLOWERS OF EARTH AND HEAVEN. John M. Chamberlain. I know a garden fair to see, Where sweetest flowers grow;  Red roses bloom with sweet perfume, And He’s white as snow. The pansies, too, they smile on you. With modest violets;  The columbine our hearts entwine, With fragrant mignonette. Then come, oh, come, the flowers call. With voices so sweet, in our hearts they meet, They call for one, and all. Go where you will, by land or sea. No place can compare with flowers so fair They call, "Oh, come to me." In heaven there's a garden fair, Where flowers immortal grow. Angelic love that blooms above, • Pure as the driven snow. And faith, and hope, sweet charity, They are the blessed three That bind our hearts no more to part, Through all eternity. Then come, oh, come, the angels call, With mercy and love in heaven above They call for one and all. The call by land, the call by sea, To joys that we meet, to hearts that we greet, They call, "Oh, come to me." Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. (Continued.) Sunlight at last came back to the heavens. At first, just a tinge as of ashen gray light appeared along the horizon following the sun along its course. The light grew clearer day by day (each revolution of the earth is called a day) until at last we had broad daylight all the time. Then, in March, the sun appeared above the horizon in the south, skimmed along the hills, slowly rising into the sky as it made its daily round. There was great rejoicing on the day when the sun first appeared. Meetings were held in the open air, in spaces cleared of snow. There were speeches, and songs in which the whole multitude took part. The long winter had past, and soon the land would be clothed with green. The warm sun would shine in their sky for nearly six months, and everybody was happy. I also partook of the spirit of the occasion. I was glad to see the sun again. With the coming of the sun, came a wonderful awakening all over the land. During the winter the life had been more hidden, but now it burst forth to be seen and heard. In an incredibly short space of time the snow melted, and the grass began to grow. Then the fields and gardens were filled with men, plowing, digging, sowing, planting. There was hardly time to eat and sleep. Factories were closed, workshops were nearly deserted, and the higher departments in the schools were dismissed until the next winter season. Amid all this activity, I was not neglected. I soon learned that I had been the object of constant attention since the time of my arrival. The rulers of the land and many of the chief men had kept in constant communication with Joseph. It had been suggested that I should be entertained at some of the chief residences, but as I had appeared to be contented in Joseph's home, they thought it best to let me remain there. I was certainly a precious "find," and as such I was to be treated with the utmost care. They were eager to know from Joseph what progress I was making in the language, and there had been great rejoicing when it was learned that I would shortly be able to communicate many things to them. I must say that my importance did not at first appear 
 to me, but later, when I learned more, and had time to think about my position, I could plainly see the possibilities which I presented to the people of this land. I now began, also, to understand what I had missed in not being more studious. I feared that my stock of information of the great world from which I had come would soon be exhausted when the learned men of the land began drawing it from me. I had read some history, both at home and at school, but I was weak in the sciences. Had 1 known something about mechanics, and something of electricity, what a field was here for usefulness! With plenty of iron and other metals, and coal, electric light would be easy. But I knew practically nothing about such things and I don't know whether or not the suggestions I might be able to give would be of any assistance to the learned men here. I have already been experimenting with gas making, and I believe in time, we can displace oil lamps, if not with electricity, with gas. As yet, I have not visited all parts of the land, but from the knowledge I have of this country and its resources, I see no reason why many of the modern improvements known to the world cannot be introduced. Oh, if I only knew more! My heart fails me, when I think of my ignorance, and yet how much depends upon me. I who was as a castaway, a good-for-nothing, who had not found welcome room even in the heart of a simple girl, and now the attraction of a nation, and the care of its most powerful minds. Well, I only hope that I can prove of some service. I feel at home among the people. 1 don't know that I would return to the world had I the chance, not at present, at any rate. One day Father Joseph came into my room, while I was resting from a recently finished journey. I was reading my Bible when he entered, but I laid it down and talked to him. It was in my mind to ask him regarding their religion, and 1 did so. I shall not try to write the exact words that were spoken by us, as they were quite disconnected in places. However, the substance of our conversation was about as follows: "Father Joseph, I wish to know something of your religion. You worship, you sing, and you pray about as the Christians do in the world from which I come. Are you Christians?" I had to explain what I meant by Christian. "Our religion is the gospel of Jesus Christ," he said. "But how did you get that religion?" "From the Lord himself. About 2,000 years ago he appeared to this people, and taught them the gospel. We now have apostles and prophets, and the church is organized