[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 465 | General Feature | Springtime Is for the Birds Claire Noall | Lesson Department]
464 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 12—Garden Convenience and Safety Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1969 Southern Hemisphere: February 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show how carefully planned gardens and grounds and careful use and storage of tools can contribute to the convenience and safety of outdoor INTRODUCTION Just as we do not want to be slaves inside our homes with constant sweeping, dusting, and doing dishes, just so we do not want to burden ourselves outside with excessive lawn mowing, weeding and watering. To avoid making ourselves slaves to either, wise and careful planning is necessary. In the grounds as in the house we are concerned with modifying or controlling the environment so that it is convenient to our needs and easy to maintain and so that it provides safe and _ peaceful shelter to our families. One garden enthusiast has said that the best life and the best gardens are made up of a wise combination of beauty and utility, convenience and safety. All of these considerations augliving. Ment each other, and when the garden is planned with them in mind, the results are pleasing and satisfying. HOW MAY WE ACHIEVE A CONVENIENT GARDEN ENVIRONMENT FOR' OUR HOMES? The following suggestions may help us in planning our surroundings for convenience. 1. The front yard should provide a pleasant setting that relates the building to the grounds and furnishes easy access to both. Facilities and space should be _ provided for comfortable outdoor living. The habit of eating out of doors in the cool of the summer mornings and evenings is one which is being widely practiced and which should be highly encouraged. A. When possible, the garden living areas should be placed so as to take advantage of the greatest number of hours for garden living.

[Springtime Is for the Birds Claire Noall Lesson Department]

To 

465 June 1969

 D. B. If possible, the garden living area should be furnished with places to sit, read, play, or dine. There should be space provided for outdoor recreation with emphasis on children's activities. This will draw family members closer together, away from the television set, the public movie, or questionable sources of entertainment. The service area could be designed to fit the habits and needs of the family and organized and located so as to occupy a minimum of space. When space permits, flowers, fruits and vegetables are welcome additions to the garden. Tomato plants, fruit vines and even espaliered fruit-bearing trees can be trained to the propertyline fences and walls. HOW CAN WE PROMOTE SAFETY IN OUR GARDEN SURROUNDINGS? 1. We should be alert ourselves to all possible hazards on our property and remove them. We should keep the premises clear of rubbish and trash, dry grass and weeds and any other useless material. We should keep firefighting equipment handy and be sure the garden hose has a suitable connection to both inside and outside faucets. Any buildings within fifty feet of a fireplace area should be built or surfaced with fireproof materials. Fires should never be left unattended but should be completely extinguished when left. A circle of about sixteen inches should be cut around the base of trees in the lawn area to insure protection from the blades of lawn mowers and for convenience in the mowing operation. 7. For safety in the garden as well as in the house we should have a firstaid kit well supplied and available. 8. Garden tools and equipment can be safe or dangerous depending on how they are operated and stored. Children should not be permitted to operate or handle high-powered lawn mowers, hedge clippers, or sharpedged tools. 9. Fences, gates, and equipment should be kept in good repair. 10. When electrical cords are used in the garden they should be kept away from water or dampness. All electrical equipment should be grounded and used with caution. 11. Movable ladders should be strong, in good repair and stored in a dry place. 12. Outside stairways, raised _ terraces, ditches, and other hazardous places should be equipped with guard rails. 13. Insecticides, weed killers, chemical sprays and any other harmful or poisonous preparation as well as the equipment used should be stored out of reach of children. CONCLUSION By careful planning of our gardens and grounds, we can provide an environment so comfortable and livable and safe that it invites the participation of family and friends for relaxation, for pleasant dining, and for recreation r THE LILT OF A LARK A meadowlark was part of morning; Breathless, when a child I heard Its lilting lyric, spring on spring, And I adored the bird. A meadowlark is part of twilight; I hear it now in a grassy park. Its lilt has power to lift my sight To meet descending dark. —Pearle M. Olsen of body and spirit.