[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 428 | Special Feature | In Memoriam— Evon | Waspe Peterson]
[In Memoriam— Evon Waspe Peterson]

Only half of the Republic is arable, or agriculture would be more extensive. Sheep are the most important domesticated animals and wool is exported. Ostrich farming is éxtensive and profitable. We saw great ostrich farms near Outshoorn, with as many as 8,000 birds to a farm. Raisers are able to sell and use everything pertaining to the birds, but the squack, we were told. The mineral resources are rich, varied, and extensive. The Transvaal region is generally regarded as the most highly mineralized portion of the earth's crust. South Africa produces more gold and diamonds than any other country in the world. South Africa—Land of Gold and Green GOVERNMENT AND HISTORY There are about nineteen million people in the Republic of South Africa. The two official languages are Afrikaans (a new language based on Dutch) and English. The earliest people were the Bushmen and Hottentots who mingled with the Bantu people to form the colored people of which there are well over a million. Only about one-fourth of the people are white and most of them are Dutch-German (Afrikaaners) or British. There are about a half million Indians from nearby India. Two thirds of the white population speak both English and Afrikaans. The rest of the people are the Bantu tribes. Two capitals are maintained to satisfy both the Dutch and the English elements in the nation. The legislative capital is Cape Town and the administrative capital ls Pretoria. South African law is based on Roman-Dutch law brought to the Cape in 1652. Western civilization came _ to southern Africa in 1652 when the Dutch East India Company established a provision station at Table Bay to provide fresh food for the fleet on the voyages between Holland and the East Indies, and later the French Huguenots came in 1688. The British settled in Port Elizabeth in 1820, and the German immigrants in 1859. The Indians came ito the area in 1860 settling in Natal. There are many prosperous professional people among this group today in Natal. The Bantu crossed the northern frontiers of what is today South Africa about the same time as the early pioneers were moving northward. 'There were many frontier wars between these groups in the 18th and 19th centuries, but each group retained the area where it had settled. Toward the end of the 15th cen- 

429 June 1969

 tury, Vasco da Gama opened up a sea route to India by sailing around the Cape of Good Hope, but for two centuries no attempt was made to occupy any territory. From 1652 to 1806 the colony, begun in 1652, thrived under the Dutch rule. In 1806, during the Napoleonic Wars, the British seized the area. In time this led to trouble, and the Boers (Dutch), rather than submit to the British, "trekked" in large numbers and formed the new republics of the Orange River and the Transvaal. The Orange River Province became The Orange Free State, but in 1900 it was declared a possession of the British Crown. The discovery of diamonds in 1867 brought many British into the Transvaal area and war resulted between the two groups, but the Boers were defeated and the Transvaal was annexed to the Union in 1910. NATURAL RESOURCES South Africa is not heavily forested, but acacia, wild olive, yellowwoods, blackwood, and black stinkwood are the principal trees growing there and they are used for furniture and carving of ornaments. The animal life of South Africa is noteworthy. All kinds of antelope, including the springbok, the national animal, are the most abundant. Lions, elephants, leopards, and cheetahs, hippopotami, wild or Cape buffaloes, giraffes, and zebras are protected and are at present in most parts of the Republic. There are many wild animal reserves in the country, the most famous of which is Kruger National Park. There are good hotels and motels in different areas of this extensive park that make one think of Yellowstone Park and its facilities. 430 TOURING THROUGH THE COUNTRY AND CITIES Many parts of South Africa remind me of the Salt Lake Valley. Both have great rugged mountainous areas with beautiful valleys in between. Both have a long history of pioneer hardship and both revere their pioneers and have erected monuments to them. It was something like a trip to Temple Square to go to Pretoria, the administrative capital of South Africa, and visit the Voortrekker Monument and its nearby museum. In the monument's rotunda are granite murals depicting the courageous pioneers of South Africa. In the museum across the street one finds also these same scenes worked in needlepoint in magnificent colors. Both are monuments to the devotion of the present citizens of South Africa, as well. In the city of Pretoria, itself, one views the Kruger Home where there are many mementos of early pioneer days. It was like a visit to the Lion House to visit there and view the household and _ working effects of Paul Kruger. In the city we also saw the magnificent zoo where wild animals of every description are housed. 'The House of Parliament is a magnificent structure, and the entire city is very clean and beautiful. Johannesburg was the city where our plane first landed in the Republic of South Africa and I remember most of all the many golden hills or mine dumps spread throughout the populous city of four million people. Johannesburg is the industrial, commercial, and mining center of South Africa. After several days' stay in Johannesburg viewing the sights, we took a fast train to Kimberley, the diamond center of the world. Here we saw all the activities involved in processing the diamond from the blue clay mining to the many-faceted jewel. We also visited the training farm where dogs are taught to protect the diamond fields. The Big Hole right in the city, fast filing with water, was a famous stop. We left Kimberley for Cape Town on the world-famous Blue Train, arriving in the early morning. The mountain scenery, green fields, and attractive farmsteads in the outskirts of this three-hundred-yearold city were very pleasing. This is called the Mother City of South Africa as well as the legislative capital, and we found the people unusually friendly and hospitable. I, particularly, shall never forget — the trip up Table Mountain to the north of the city. The wind was blowing a gale so most of the members of our tour stayed close to the lodge. I wanted to catch a view of the Indian Ocean, as well as the Atlantic, so I started out across the mountainous terrain, which was in reality solid rock gouged by wind and weather until it was very irregular. I did see the Indian Ocean and saw many beautiful flowers as well, so the hike was a great success for me. I did get left on the mountain, however, and caused the party to be delayed. For this I was sorry, but the views from that vantage point. Will be treasured all my life. We also enjoyed the flora and fauna indigenous to this area, including the protea, national flower of South Africa, which grows in countless varieties. From Cape Town we followed the Garden Route for three days through Paarl, Outshoorn, Port Elizabeth, and East London. Near Outshoorn we saw the huge ostrich farms and tried our luck at riding on the ostriches and learning of their strange culture. My father had owned a male ostrich and two females when I was a child, and I South Africa—Land of Gold and Green had known much about these big birds from that experience. The Transkei Territory, for natives only, mostly of the "redblanket" Xhosa tribe, was fascinating. These people build their mud and thatch huts high on the hills to catch the rays of the sun through the one door that must be to the east. This location is necessary even though the natives may have to carry the water from springs miles away down in the valleys. Here the scarlet aloes bloom for fences and for beauty as well. The last big stop in South Africa was in Durban, after we had viewed the Zulu dancers in Drummond. Durban is located on the beautiful eastern coast and is the resort city of South Africa. This harbor is one of the best of the relatively small number of port cities in all of Africa. Here is transplanted part of India since it is on the Indian Ocean, and these people have found many business opportunities here. One attraction for tourists here besides the beach is the riksha men who come right up to the good hotels to solicit business for their colorful vehicles. A tour of the harbor was enjoyable. This harbor handles more business than all the other ports in South Africa put together. CHURCH ACTIVITIES The story of the Church in South Africa is a long one, for it began with missionary activities in 1853. In 1864, the work was discontinued because of persecution, however, in 1903 the mission was reopened and has been active ever since. In 1921 the number of missionaries to be admitted to South Africa was set at twenty-five. It was ruled that applications for admission be submitted through the 

431 June 1969

 British Consular Authorities in America, and they were authorized to visa the necessary passports. The names of the persons selected were to be furnished to the High Commissioner for the Union in London. An undated memorandum states that the steamship fare over the Union-Castle Line from Southhampton to Cape Town second class was about fifty pounds, third class about twenty-five pounds. An elder upon arrival in South Africa was required to have thirty-five pounds landing money. It was suggested that an elder send ahead of him to Liverpool about sixty pounds. This amount would be deposited with the Union-Castle Line in London, with an order to draw the same on arrival at Cape Town. In April 1936 the quota of ' missionaries in South Africa was increased to thirty, and in March 1939, the quota was further increased to forty missionaries. At the present time the quota is sixty. The missionaries travel by air, usually, because of the value of time and the reasonableness of the fares. First president of the South African Mission was Warren H. Lyon, who served from 1903 to 1906. He was followed by Ralph A. Badger in 1906, and Brother Badger by Henry S. Steed in 1908. Eighteen presidents have been listed by the Church Missionary Committee as serving in South Africa, with Howard Carl Badger being the present president. He took office on March 22, 1967. Many prominent members of the Church have served as mission presidents in South Africa. A magnificent work has been and is being done and the saints there are very progressive. There are six districts in South Africa, with twenty-three branches, twenty having their own chapels. Although the membership is 432 small in some branches, that makes little difference to the earnestness and devotion of the Relief Society sisters or to their desire to carry out the full program of Relief Society. I was privileged to go to the Bulawayo Branch in Rhodesia and see the wonderful facilities of that beautiful new building. The branch members were working overtime to try to get the building paid for so that they could have it dedicated. We had spotted the building as we entered Bulawayo and nonmembers called it to our attention and commented on its beauty. In Johannesburg, the mission home is a beautiful and spacious mansion called '"Cumorah," on Fifth Avenue, Houghton, Johannesburg, South Africa. The yards surrounding this brick mansion are large and beautiful and it ls located in a good neighborhood. After going through the mission home we were taken to a baptismal meeting at which ten new members were brought into the Church, and it was a thrill to hear their testimonies. At the Church services the following day, we heard young people give excellent talks they had won awards on in the MIA Speech Festival. The talks were as good as any I have ever heard. How wonderful the gospel is! Four branches of the Church within the South African Mission are organized in four cities of Rhodesia: Bulawayo, Copperbelt, Midlands, and _ Salisbury. We visited in Bulawayo and Salisbury. In Rhodesia we went to see the remarkable sight of Victoria Falls, perhaps the most magnificent falls in the world. These are formed where the Zambezi River drops off a great fault. In a small plane we saw this remarkable sight from a dozen angles. The future of the Church in South Africa is promising. Victoria Falls on the Zambezi River, Rhodesia Flower-bordered Road Near Bulawayo, Rhodesia 0 "r as oa.