[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 450 | General Feature | "The Girl in White" by | Julian Alden Weir Floyd E. Brienholt]
wee "THE GIRL IN WHITE" by Julian Alden Weir (1852-1919) American Brigham Young University Collection, Provo, Utah For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 2—The Role of Education Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969—Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Commentary on opposite page. 448 Transparency by J M. Heslop "THE GIRL IN WHITE"' By Julian Alden Weir (1852-1919) American Brigham Young University Collection, Provo, Utah Painting on opposite page Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Chairman, Department of Art Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 2—The Role of Education Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 "Whom do we need more, or who should be more profoundly honored, than a man of complete integrity?" This is the first sentence of the foreword of the Life and Letters of J. Alden Weir, compiled by Dorothy W. Young. Every sincere painting by an accomplished artist is essentially a selfportrait, a portrait of his complete personality. Just as we seem to be drawn to some people more than to others, so are we drawn to some works of art. While reading about the life of this man and studying his paintings, one becomes acutely aware of the truism that his art and personality are compounded and inseparable. "And by their works you shall know them." (D&C 18:38.) If the above statement is true, then a description of the artist would resemble a description of his work. Study "The Girl in White" and see if you can see how the artist identified himself with his work as you read the following statements about the man taken from the comments of Duncan Phillips, a friend who knew him well: 1. He has the capacity to make us feel that ordinary human experiences are desirable and delightful, that the world is full of places and people worth knowing. He was a man of charm, nobility, and taste. He sought to tell the truth of the matter. There was no sham nor pretense. "He could see distinction in an apparently ordinary model, and make us see what he had seemed to like and admire." A close study of "The Girl in White," then, provides a rewarding educational experience in that one learns about the personality and tastes of the artist. To the more casual observer, however, the picture represents an educational experience on another level—the experience of a lovely child involved in the beauty and wonders of nature. J. Alden Weir enjoyed the beautiful in life. It became an integral part of him. He also found a technique peculiar to him by which he could pass this on to us in the form of his paintings; a technique which harmonized with his personality and his special way of seeing. Such men of integrity and character play an important role in our education. As John Ruskin says, "The object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things but enjoy them." Se 449 "ADVICE TO A YOUNG ARTIST" By Honoré Daumier National Gallery of Art, Washington D. C. - Gift of Duncan Phillips Painting on page 447 Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Chairman, Department of Art, Brigham Young University For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3 - The Problem of Communication Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Honoré Daumier at the age of seven decided to be an artist. To gain background for his chosen field, he frequented the poorer quarters of Paris and haunted the corridors of the Louvre. He studied Rembrandt and Michelangelo, nature, and the manners and customs of his period. Although he is better known as a lithographer and political cartoonist, it has been said that he was one of the greatest painters of the 19th Century. Daumier expressed very deep feelings in a spirit of satire and ridicule. His caricatures are without hatred or spite, although they are biting. There is a direct simplicity in the expressions of what he saw and felt. All of his work has social significance. His art was and still is a very direct means of communication of ideas, a universal language. Artists today use art for propaganda purposes just as Daumier did in his time. The painting, "Advice to a Young Artist," is perhaps more mild than many of his works. This is not a portrait of any two particular people but more a generalization of a typical situation in the world of work. We all learn from others who go before us, especially if they are willing to share their knowledge with us. In this very commonplace idea, expressed in a simple, earthy manner, one senses a certain kinship between the artist and the common working man, a certain reality that makes the commonplace beautiful when stripped to the bare essentials. None of his works is pretty. All tinsel and glitter have been left out and only simple truth remains. Perhaps this is why many have placed Daumier in the school of realism. All of his works, full of compassion for the downtrodden, are attempts at communicating the unvarnished truth as he saw it. As in all great art, Daumier in his work gives us not merely a photographic likeness of his subject but an interpretation of it in which he communicates what he knows, thinks, and feels.