[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 583 | General Feature | Irene Cannon Lloyd Resigns From the | General Board]
[Irene Cannon Lloyd Resigns From the General Board]

General Board, as of June 4, 1969. She has served on the board since November 1, 1961 during which time she has rendered devoted and important service to Relief Society. While serving on the General Board, Sister Lloyd has rendered capable service on various committees including the Spiritual Living, General Conference, Homemaking, and Music Committees, along with many others. She has also fulfilled conference-speaking assignments both at home and abroad, and her sincere spirituality has enriched the lives of many sisters. Sister Lloyd came to the General Board after serving Relief Society in various executive positions, including that of a stake Relief Society president. In her home she has carried forth a heritage of deep devotion to the gospel, and her family carry this heritage proudly. The united love of the board goes with Sister Lloyd. Her devotion to Relief Society and her faithful service will remain as a tribute to her in all she does. On behalf of Relief Society sisters throughout the world, love and appreciation are extended to Sister Lloyd. May her health improve and may she find much happiness in her future endeavors. Relief Society will continue to be an enjoyment and a fulfilling part of her life. 582 'Notes to the Field The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 1 and 2, 1969. The general session will be held on Wednesday, October 1, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, October 1, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, October 2, is limited to stake board members and mission district officers. A reception to which th