The Relief Society Magazine AUGUST 1969 uh wre —— \ od 7 in ri A ge tt MUP eS aii The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: CLIMATE FOR LILIES There is a climate for lilies—in the tomorrows, In a plain, in the fertile loams of the future, In the gray bestowal of rain and intermittent sun, Lavish on the plain. There will be the pale burgundy of buds, The bloom with its trilogy of petals, Its triumvirate of gold. There is that next of summers, With trine of dreams and gold of hopes, And pale, pure satin Spilling gold from heart of gold. Though wind is a wall between, listen... A plea on the prairie strives Over wood fences weathered to pewter, Along the sea with its green, curling leaf of wave: After the winter of want There is a climate for lilies In tomorrow with its tool in hand And a long road leading there. —Dorothy J. Roberts Bernkastelkues on the Mosel River, Germany Transparency by Three Lions Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Sego Lily in the Desert Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 I have read the serial ''Welcome the Task'' by Michele Bartmess (concluded in the June Magazine) and enjoyed it very much. I have also enjoyed seeing the lovely poems by Pearle M. Olsen (see the Magazine for April and June 1969, and other issues). Sister Olsen's poetry gives me inspiration to keep writing myself. Wilma Morley Despain, Centerfield, Utah I would like to tell you how much I have enjoyed my year's subscription to the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. I have been a member of the Church abouf two years. I am happy that my husband has renewed my subscription to the Magazine, and I hope I don't miss any of the wonderful stories and articles in the future. I first became acquainted with the Magazine by receiving a copy from a Latter-day Saint woman, and now I am always waiting for the next issue to come. I have never enjoyed any Magazine as much as I have this one. Jean Smith, Le Roy, Illinois Welcome Relief Society Magazine! How I have missed you the past three months. Not your fault, I know, but what a joy it was to see you back in my mail box again and to know that once more my friend had arrived—this time three together. How wonderful our membership in Relief Society is. How blessed we are as wives and mothers to have the privilege of walking beside the priesthood of God. How good it is to be guided by the Magazine. I enjoyed the article on the new Giant System in genealogical research. Too often this work is left to a later date. To bring it to life out of the Magazine can help us to be mindful of our callings as missionaries for our dead. I find great joy in doing this work (see the Magazine for March 1969). Alvina Shore, Solihull, Warwickshire, England Thanks so much for The Relief Society Magazine. -I always enjoy it and the lessons it gives to us. I want to thank you especially for the story ''Mama and the Teddy Bear'' by Lael J. Littke, in the April issue. I am also very hard-headed about accepting help from others, and since reading this story I have been striving to overcome this fault. With the inspiration received from this story, and much help from my Heavenly Father, I feel that I am making progress. It has been a wonderful experience learning to receive, and I thank the Magazine and Sister Littke for helping me to develop this quality. Janie Cooks, Kansas City, Missouri The Relief Society Magazine has been a source of inspiration and aid to many of our young members. Many are attending Relief Society for the first time. We feel the greatest gift one could give a loved one away from home is a subscription to this gem of a Magazine. The articles are adaptable to all situations and needs. Margaret Perry, President, Junction City Branch Relief Society, Junction City, Kansas The reason I am writing is because I have in my hands a copy of The Relief Society Magazine for January 1968 which was given me by Elder Winston Palmer. As I thumbed through the Magazine I marveled at the rich reading material, the recipes for the kitchen, the stories and reports of activities provided for the sisters of Relief Society. Elder Arturo Arroyo, Los Ralos, Provincia de Tucuman, Argentina 562 

The Relief Society Magazine 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.