[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 582 | Special Feature | Literary Contest Announcements 1969 573 l-dentity— Who You Are L/7//an | Y. Bradshaw]
[Literary Contest Announcements 1969 573 l-dentity— Who You Are L/7//an Y. Bradshaw]

Yet Samuel Johnson said, ''All intellectual improvement arises from leisure.'' If this is true, or even partly true, depending on one's interpretation of what he meant, should not every woman seek to capture some leisure when she may pursue her own desires? And how Volume 56 August 1969 Number 8 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, Acting SecretaryTreasurer —— 580 should it be spent? In doing something which will bring her a release from tension, a feeling of fulfillment, the building of her own entity. She may wish to take a walk, to garden, do genealogical research, play or listen to music, study and admire reproductions of paintings, sculptures, study a foreign language, read for pleasure, do crewel work, knit, visit a sick friend, telephone a friend, bake a cake for a neighbor, or just sit still and dream. Others find release and rejuvenation in physical exercise, in tennis, golf, bowling, swimming, or hiking. Sometimes a trip to a lovely store is very satisfying. If one is not too weary, the time before one goes to sleep may be used for relaxing. Perhaps time can be found for reading the scriptures, and even with one's eyes shut, a happy or fond experience can be relived in memory. If no one else is disturbed it is pleasing to sing some songs or recite poetry or scriptures. It is a time to evaluate one's progress and review pleasant events so it will be a time of leisure and relaxation. It is not a proper time to lament one's shortcomings of the day, but rather do that when one is actively pursuing one's work. Sometimes a movie on television will be a source of relaxation. There is no rule that says what one should do with leisure time. It will vary with the individual's need, but every woman needs to enjoy some leisure time, and everyone will do well to rearrange her daily activities, if necessary, so that early or late she can devote some time to herself alone and to view her life as an individual for which life she is accountable. —M. C. S. Anne R. Gledhill GENERAL BOARD: Mary R. Young Verda F. Burton Anna B. Hart Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Myrtle R. Olson Edith S. Elliott Elsa T. Peterson Zola J. McGhie Alice C. Smith Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Oa J. Cannon Lucille P. Peterson Leone G. Layton Elizabeth B. Winters Lila B. Walch Elaine B. Curtis Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M.