[Vol56 | August 1969 | Page 570 | Special Feature | The Law of Tithing | LeGrand Richards]
Beauty is; And truth—her twin— Returns the gaze. Then love, in growing bolder, Mirrors joy— And fulfillment sanctifies Her days. What, then, a poet's fate? Respond, interpret—and create —Margaret B. Jorge oe, sae Tee S: - ee acne re ~~ ce Literary Contest Announcements 1969 The Relief Society Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board will be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. The Relief Society Poem Contest The Relief Society Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1969. Prizes will be awarded as follows: ist prize. ----------_=— $40 Second prize ------------ $30 Third prize -------------- $20 Prize poems will be published in the April 1970 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 570 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement ts to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. That it has'never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. S. £9 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, _ all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. Literary Contest Announcements 1969 In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax ao of 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1969. 11.

[The Law of Tithing LeGrand Richards]

All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. BS The Relief Society Short Story Contest The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1969 opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1969. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize-..----------- $75 Second prize ------------ $60 Third prize - ------------ $50 The three prize-winning stories will be published in the April 1970 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. Also, the General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board— who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement ts to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) 

571 August 1969

 c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1969. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest. 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.

m on the other side was reached in safety. And so it is with children. Some seem to be thus blessed as they enter in on this tightrope life—well slippered, testing each step, seemingly gifted with a balance all their own. And though they slip to one side or the other and we hold our breath, they always seem to know how to right themselves. It is with excited joy and anticipation we see them perform. And many are the hurrahs. I And then there are_ those children who enter as though wearing hiking boots, and act as the clown who performs clumsily—slipping, sliding, arms and * & y eS. Er. Ye legs askew. We are at times caused to laugh, yet when we see this young one lose his balance our hearts reach out and achingly we ask ourselves "Oh, what can I do?" "What can I say?" "How can I help, don't you know how important you are?" And then he falls into the net of life and walks about with each step sinking in that net to 573 Be Re PRY A Se. August 1969 the height it was before the step was taken—not knowing quite how to get out. And few are the hurrahs. Again, we are caused to ask searchingly of ourselves "What could I have done to prevent the fall?" And then I imagine myself having a rod to hold out for him and others to take hold of until they find firm ground again., While my older children were yet quite young, I taught many Mutual Improvement Association classes and became aware of the fact that those young people whose step seemed so sure seemed always to carry the balance rod with the words emblazoned on it: I know where I came from! I know who I am! I know where I'm going! And I marveled. Often these young people were either converts or children of recent converts to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day -Saints. And it often puzzled me and caused me to ponder "How, when my children are born under the covenant—how can [I instill in them this same strength?" And a prayer would be uttered in my heart. "Oh, Father in heaven, what can I say now while my children are yet pliable and young that will emblazon on their rods who they are and how important they are to themselves and that what they do really counts." They must learn from mistakes, I know, but what can I do now that will give them that innate sense of balance that will help them right themselves as 574 they slip and slide along the tightrope of life? I Many years have passed since that prayer was answered. Enough years that in looking back I can now see how it was answered—so subtly and _ yet with such wisdom that I am caused to marvel at the simplicity. It all began in sacrament meeting as the speaker—a young woman—told of her conversion to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and of the great joy she felt, while relating the loss of family, friends, and home—all that had been dear to her before. We felt tears sting our eyes and wondered if we really appreciated being born into the Church. How could we be so lucky? Lucky? Was it luck or had someone paid such a price for us once? We determined as a family to trace back all our genealogical lines and find the one in each line to whom the gospel had been preached first. What had it cost each one to accept the truth? Was it difficult? What an adventure! We divided into four teams—each team determined to trace one of their grandparent's lines. I had most of the histories put away—somewhere. Others we found through grandparents and relatives. I purchased a large Miultigeneration Pedigree Chart, and we began writing in all the progenitor names and the dates we could find. The sheet was large enough (25 x 20 inches) so that all names could be seen at once. Here we did something quite by chance but which made all the difference to the entire evening. We left the first line unnamed —Blair's name was on line 2 and mine on line 3. The evening of July 24th, the anniversary of our pioneers coming into the Valley was the date 'we set aside as a family to disclose what we had found. The interest was as high as if we had been working on a_ Sherlock Holmes mystery. I can remember the evening we gathered to disclose all we had found. We placed the pedigree chart in the middle of the floor and then as story after story was told a hush descended upon the room. With interest each watched the red check placed by that particular person's name on the chart. We found that most of the red checks appeared under the heading "second greatgrandparents" some four lines away from that first unnamed line. But whose name would be put on that first line they kept wondering? ' Many were the stories told of bravery before mobs, trials of faith of families who had had to part because of lack of money so some could travel to Zion and then had worked hard so those left behind could follow and all be together again. Stories of the youngster left alone when his parents died crossing the plains, stories of the mother keeping a family together as the husband went on his mission. And then it all became very real as they heard the story of Sarah Jane Richards—a young girl just about their age. The story told how she and her girl friend went to a Latter-day Saint Identity—Who You Are meeting in Carmarthen, South Wales, about 1848 with the intent of making fun. As _ they listened to the two missionaries, Sarah Jane believed what was said. After a few more meetings, she told her father she wanted to be baptized. He became very angry and tried many ways to get her to give up the new religion. But she could not—she knew it was true. Her friends threw rocks at her. With tears and heartbreak she was finally forced to leave home without money, clothes, or any other belongings except what she was wearing. She walked eighty miles to a coal mining town where two married sisters lived. When she got there her shoes were worn off of her feet and her feet were bleeding. One of the sisters took her in and she started to work in the coal mines, where girls were employed to shovel the coal. While working there, her hand was crushed in an accident. It was so seriously injured that the local doctor advised amputating it. She begged him to delay the operation and he granted one day. She had complete faith she could be healed if the elders could be found, and so prayed constantly for them to come. That night they came, telling her she literally prayed them there. They administered to her and their combined faith was so efficacious that when the doctor arrived expecting to operate, he marveled at the change and decided the operation was unnecessary. After working hard and saving every possible penny, she sailed alone for America. This was only the 

575 August 1969

 beginning. With joy she gave her testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel as she had been led to it. Now there came a feeling over the whole room. A soft, warm, penetrating feeling. Our belonging to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints one of luck? No! It had been hard earned by someone who was willing to be lonely, by many who had sacrificed all they had for the precious gift of the gospel. This then led to many more storles of great-grandparents, and grandparents, and their struggles to remain faithful—enduring heartache and disappointments. And then we as parents bore testimony of times of spirit when we had had to decide which path to take. Ever the stories brought the lifeline closer to that first empty line. 576 And now they knew that each one of them would place his own name at the head of the entire sheet. Each generation had remained faithful and now they were the link to keep it unbroken. "Now," we said, as we took our youngest daughter by the hand, "Sue, as you look at this sheet pretend that another sheet just like it is extending into the future on the other side to the left. Here you are as the one with lines spreading from you not only from the past but also to the future—you alone hold both lines. Someday you will be the mother with children and then the grandma. Will your children look back on just such a sheet and have pride and gratitude in their hearts as you have right now for them, because you made the right decisions? They, too, will bless you because you chose to marry in the temple so they could be born under the covenant. Now you know who you are. You know how important you are. You know that what you do now is important." One by one, we took each child through the same route, mentioning perhaps different areas in which they might have to make a major decision—always repeating at the end the same, "Now you know who you are." They stood alone and they felt responsibility weigh importantly heavy upon their own actions. No longer were they to go off and claim it didn't matter what they did. They held hands with the eternities—past and _ future—and became the link between where they had come from and where they were going. Now they knew, and we knew they knew who they are, and it gave purpose to them to seek out why they are here. Looking only to the past to the deeds accomplished by ancestors can bring a shallow, dangerous false pride. But when they see themselves as a definite part of the future, it brings to immediate focus their own responsibility now. Major decisions—such as the use of drugs or whether going on a mission is important, or what to do with free time in the service of our country, or whom to marry—do not come in one great decision. Such decisions are festered or cured with that cautious tested step forward one at at a time. It is the small slips to the right or the quick one to the Identity—Who You Are left—the decisions which would unbalance my tightrope walker— that I want to reinforce and reinforce again so as to keep that line taut as he carries his own balance rod. With a slack line there can be no sure footing. It has been only within recent years I have been made aware how that prayer was answered. For now my children are old enough that by its fruits it has been tested. Time and time again I have used it and have seen it work on young and old. A subtle way to help them strengthen their own decisions when temptation would seem so_ powerful as to make them sway. When, with small voice or crying out inside, they ask _ themselves, What does it matter? Who cares? It's my life! SS SARAH I had not much to give to her I loved Save love itself, And that was borne in trailing clouds of sand And dust that followed in our stormy way Behind the ceaseless, toiling caravan Wherein she bore her son in winter's years. Her face so fair that ever as we went Did stir the winds of envy, But she clung to me As vines enforce the walls they hold. When she left, the tears I could not bear To see her shed, Washed down the river Of an old man's heart.