[Vol5 | February 1918 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Ex-President Roosevelt Congratulates American Mothers]

Mothers in Israel. Here are additional items from our St. George heroine, Sister Burgess, too valuable to be lost from history: My father. Wm. Patterson Mclntire and my mother, Anna Patterson, were both born in Pennsylvania in the township of Wheatfield. Indiana county. Their parents were farmers, living three miles apart. The two families were very intimate and friendly, my father being named after my mother's father, Wm. Patterson. Her mother was Margaret Lynn Patterson; she had four brothers and two sisters, yet none of her family but herself embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ. She left them all and came to Nauvoo with her husband, my father. My grandfather was George Mclntire whose wife was Sarah Davis. My father had six brothers and three sisters. They were all born in Pennsylvania, yet none but him accepted the gospel. My grandfather Mclntire came to Nauvoo with my father, but didn't join the Church, yet he always thought everything of the Prophet Joseph Smith; he greatly admired his nobleness and truth although he himself was an unbeliever. He was a Presbyterian as to religion. Grandfather owned two large brick dwellings and a place called "The Brick Row." It was built to rent; there were eleven good sized rooms in the row. He was a moneyed man, and these brick buildings were mortgaged to him on borrowed money. My father's ancestors were Scotch on his father's side; he was the last male member and their names traced back to 1600. His name was Arthur Mclntire. He married a Miss Douglass of the famous Douglass family of Scotland. My grandfather George Mclntire was born in June, 1771. He had four brothers and three sisters. In the days of Nauvoo I remember President Brigham Young as a great and good man. He was on a mission in England. I remember his Nauvoo house as well as can be; it was a brick house and was on the northeast corner of the block above us, facing east. President Young was a great friend to my parents. valley in the early remember, fifties, not while a great while living we were after in wet he came Old to Fort. the President Young had a family party. He sent a sleigh down after my father and mother and it snowed all night, and they did not come home until morning. We children were snowed in, and every one else in the Fort was snowed in until they dug themselves out. We were glad when our parents came in the morning to dig" ns out; it was like going up out of a cellar. At that time I was 12 years old and my brother was 14 years old. The dear little twins I told you of died in Nauvoo. They were seven months old at the time I wrote about them when the Prophet had one of them. One died when it was eleven months old and the one the Prophet had was fifteen months old when it passed away of a disease called black canker, and diarrhoea, which came among the babies and proved fatal generally. My father and mother both died here in St. George. My mother died in the year 1880, 27th of June, and my father died in 1882, the 7th of January. They were both 68 years old. They were both pioneers of 1861, among the first in camp, as also myself and family. It was a very barren and desolate place at that time, but it does not take long for the followers of Jesus Christ to make the desert blossom as the rose. The dear old arm chair, which belonged to the Young family, I would love to keep a little longer as it is all the arm chair I have. Truly your friend and sister in the gospel, Margaret McIntire Burgess.