National Conference of Social Work Ora Whipple Chipman THE Relief Society sent two delegates to the National Conference of Social Work, held in Grand Rapids, Michigan, from May 24 to June 1 this year. At this Conference were assembled representative social workers and other leaders in social welfare from all parts of the United States and its possessions, from Canada and some other foreign countries. Medicine, psychiatry, research, psychology, statistics, law, the ministry sent distinguished representatives to participate. Industrial leaders and labor administrators contributed to the deliberations of the Conference. It was, indeed, a truly great meeting of people whose greatest interest centers in the welfare of human beings. The Conference is a "forum for the discussion of all points of view on social welfare... It is non-racial, non-sectarian and non-political. It adopts no platforms and takes no official stand on local, state, national or international affairs...." At this sixty-seventh annual Conference there were four hundred meetings and more than six hundred speakers. Official paid registration was 4,888 with attendance reaching approximately 8,000 people. With one general session daily, the Conference was divided into five major sections: social case work, social group work, community organization, social action, and public welfare administration. Affiliated with the Conference were nine special committees and fifty-five associate groups; such as, the Child Welfare League of America, the American Association of Psychiatric Social Workers, the American Association of Medical Social Workers, the National Probation Association, National Association of Goodwill Industries, Episcopal Social Work Conference, and the Committee on the National Health Program. Social problems of the individual and of the nation were analyzed at this conference in an attempt to understand the developments of the past and to chart the future course of America in raising the cultural and physical level of the nation, maintaining also an interest in international relationships and all peoples. The Conference was much concerned with the ill-fed, the ill-clothed, ill-housed, and the ill-educated. It was concerned with the imminent threat to our democratic institutions and way of life from without and from within. Miss Grace L. Coyle, president of the Conference, in her opening address said on this subject: "Whether our democratic institutions and the traditions from which they spring can survive the economic dislocations of the thirties is the major issue that confronts us. We are not at present threatened as other countries are by the imposition of despotism from without. The most serious fifth column which has penetrated within our gates is the malnutrition of our population, the frustration and despair of our unemployed, the racial inequalities and antagonisms heightened by economic tensions, and the inhuman cynicism of those among us who can realize these conditions without attempting to remedy them. European experience should teach us that the despair of the people is the opportunity of the dictator." Miss Coyle listed effects of the depression of the 1930's as follows: undermining of belief in opportunity for economic achievement; the disillusion and despair of much of our youth; a generation of old age without resource or security; uprooted farm families (as the Joads) who have become depression refugees; and the lack of physical necessities essential to health and decency. She and many other speakers held that these ills of our nation can be and must be overcome. Distinguished speakers asserted that there is no unavoidable cause for any poverty in any part of the United States; that we need leadership and knowledge in adjusting our affairs to produce plenty for all in work and in goods. Ways and means were studied for bringing to every American "the essential minimum for health and decency." NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SOCIAL WORK Large sections of the Conference were devoted to attempts to analyze the public relief programs of the country and to formulate principles of sound public welfare administration. Closely allied with these discussions were those regarding rehabilitation of large migratory populations, and regarding economic and governmental control of the consequences of changing production methods. The national health program and the placing of medical care within the reach of all were subjects in several sessions. Mr. Homer Folks, eminent social worker, considered health comparable in importance to education, although far less progress has been made in providing it for all. One speaker decried the vicious cycle of providing public medical care for children who would be well if properly housed or fed or clothed. The Wagner National Health Act and precepts advocated by the American Medical Association were pointed out as progressive steps in providing low-cost medical care for all, to improve the health of the nation. Child welfare held its usual prominent place in the Conference program. Miss Katherine Lenroot, Chief of the Children's Bureau, outlined a program for children based on recommendations of the 1940 White House Conference on Children in a Democracy. She indicated that between six and eight million United States children were, in 1939, in families dependent for food and shelter upon various forms of relief. This aid, in many cases, "is not enough to provide a good home." She pointed out, also, that nearly a million children of elementary school age are not in school and that four million youths between the ages of sixteen and twenty-five want work but are unemployed. Seeing the European conflict as a challenge to all the nations of the Western hemisphere, Miss Lenroot suggested means by which Americans and their children might be assured of qualities essential to preservation and advancement of democracy. They are: "mental and physical health; an environment which will indoctrinate children with the theory of freedom and democracy; support and expansion of all phases of economic, political and social life; and encouragement to live a life of self-discipline, self-control and cooperation with others." A specialized phase of child welfare considered in several meetings was that of placing children in foster and adoptive homes. In the light of the rather haphazard means of child placing practiced by many, even today, it is interesting to note the seriousness with which foster home and adoption placement is viewed by responsible and distinguished psychiatrists, psychologists, and child-welfare executives participating in the Conference. Dr. Orlo L. Crissey, director of The Flint Guidance Center (a child-guidance clinic) of Flint, Michigan, stated that foster or adoptive home placement must become an individualized process for each child. He said: "A foster home thus becomes useful to the extent that it has within it the possibilities of satisfying the cluster of needs of a particular child. This implies that a thorough clinical study of the child must be made. Each case demands an evaluation of the child's physical status, family background, present level of mental performance, and behavior and attitudes as interpreted against the background of the child's total life experience. The skill and insight of the case worker must be pooled with observations of the physician, the clinical psychologist or psychiatrist, and persons from whom the child has received care and training. No two children present the same living picture, and so the influence and importance of the various factors must be carefully weighed," finding the home suited to a particular child. "Surely this (work) calls for persons 

 

 with the highest professional qualifications, as they will be called upon to use every ounce of insight and maturity in effecting a complex process of human engineering!" Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor, addressed a joint meeting of the Episcopal Social Work Conference and the Church Conference of Social Work on "Children and the Moral Fiber of the Nation," in which she stressed the importance of early religious training. She considered religion to be vital in the lives of children if they are to attain fortitude in meeting the complexities of life. "Ethical principles alone do not hold people up in times of trouble, terror, or temptation," she said. Describing religion as a "building back of men to God," the speaker characterized the relationship of man to God as "the most primary, the most fundamental, and the most dramatic thing in the life of man." Parents and teachers of the present generation were considered by the speaker to be inadequate in introducing children to religion and ethics. "We have made much progress with children physically, but little progress as a nation with children in relation to God." Less than half of the nation's sixteen million young people have received any form of religious instruction outside of the home. Urging that some form of religious education should be open to every child in America, she proposed a "simple beginning" in the form of prayer in the public schools. "We offer a prayer before the President of the United States is inaugurated; we open Congress with a prayer; we open state legislatures with prayer. Some courts are opened with prayer," she said, "but when children sit down in school, no prayer may be said for them. Why, at least, can we not have the Lord's Prayer said?" Referring to recommendations made by the recent White House Conference, Miss Perkins indicated that the "great value of such a report lies in the fact that the recommendations dealing with family income, housing, social service, education, recreation, medical care and religion form an integrated whole. It reemphasizes the fact that the child's life cannot be divided into separate compartments...." "It has been recommended that whole-hearted recognition and appreciation of the fundamental place of religion in the development of culture should be given by all who deal with children," Secretary Perkins continued. "Religion should be treated as an important factor in personal and social behavior." In conclusion, she stated that "to the extent that we meet the needs of our children, we strengthen the moral fiber of the nation." The shadow of the war hung heavily over the Conference, which coincided with the surrender of the Belgian Army. Rabbi Abba Hillel Silver and other speakers asserted that the "time has come for a strengthening of our national defenses, both military and spiritual. Said Rabbi Silver: "We should not forget that a strong military defense in itself is not sufficient. A greater defense for a nation is the loyalty of its citizens and their essential spiritual unity." Summarizing the feeling of the general Conference that the American people must preserve the culture we have attained, President Grace Coyle said that the "firmest foundation for the ultimate preservation of our democratic heritage lies in a sound people well nourished in body, healthy in mind, fully developed, each according to his powers. Such a people are the best preparedness for the free cooperative endeavor for common goals not only of defense—essential as that may be for the time—but also for the permanent achievement of a great culture. For this achievement we need a profound insight and an unshaken courage." She urged that we recall the struggling and wavering advance of civilization as we know it. "The rise of science," she concluded, "the achievement of political democracy, the abolition of slavery, the extension of medical care, free education of the young, the development of the vast body of social services which we represent—these are but part of that struggle for civilized life. Our generation is called upon to hold this line and to press forward. This struggle is the great adventure of mankind, faltering, uncertain, but with it all—superb." "The essential characteristics of truth, beauty, and goodness are proportion, moderation and restraint."