It Didn't Matter Eva Willes Wangsgaard For a long time Judith Rawson had wanted to try an experiment. There was something she had to find out for herself, because, when she had asked Mother, Mother had jerked her head up quickly and snapped, "Don't be silly. You're too young to be worrying about your complexion." What did she mean "too young"? The time to make dark skin fairer was as soon as you found out how. Maybe that wasn't why Arnold, whose father ran the bakery, had begun bringing the squares of gingerbread to Irma instead of to Judith, but she thought it was. All through the second grade he had had a chunk of gingerbread every afternoon for Judith, and now all summer when he came to play he gave it to Irma. Even if that wasn't why Arnold didn't like her, dark skin just didn't belong with yellow hair in spite of the brownness of her eyes. Judith had asked Irma what made her skin so fair, and Irma had tossed her long candy-colored braids and said, "I wash my hands and face in buttermilk." But Mother needed the buttermilk for the pigs. There wasn't enough as it was, and Mother would never let Judith use food that way. Still, there was a churn half full on the table in the house and a small lard bucket in the cupboard. A child could take some. The pigs wouldn't miss what little she needed. She slipped into the house and looked around. Mother must be in the bedroom. There was one good thing about having a deaf mother: A child could go in and out lots of times without having to explain. Judith walked to the cupboard and stood silent. The house was a log cabin with a lean-to. The "big" room was really large and was living-room, dining-room, kitchen, and bedroom, all in one. The largest part was covered by a red, green, and yellow striped rag carpet with straw underneath. On the carpet stood the cherrywood bed in one corner with a heap of quilts beside it, because it was summer now and the family didn't use all that bedding. When Judith and Margie played at dolls, the pile of quilts was the upstairs, and they could be grand ladies with a two-story house. In another corner by a door was the lounge where Artie slept. The door led into the lean-to, and that was Mother's and Father's bedroom, which they had all to themselves. The kitchen part you could tell by the linoleum that ran along one side, with the range, the table, and the cupboard standing on it. Judith lifted the bucket, dipped it into the churn, looked cautiously around again, then ran outside, carrying the bucket carefully close to her chest. She ran down the path to the mulberry tree, and behind its wide trunk began her experiment. Now it was over, and nobody had interfered. One of the boys playing ball in the yard had yelled, "What's Judith washing her face behind that tree for?" But no one had answered, and he must have forgotten because of the game. IT DIDN'T MATTER She was disappointed. She peered into the broken piece of mirror which she took from her pocket. It hadn't worked. She was still brown as last year's hay, and her face felt dry and funny, and Mother's bucket was dirty. She'd have to wash both the pail and her face at the well. Everybody had "flowing wells" in her town, but the Rawson's well was almost dry. She'd have to go over to Cousin Cora's across the street, where the water flowed in a long stream that shot out from the pipe into a trough. She'd better see if the coast was clear. There was nobody in sight near the well. Judith dashed across the dusty street and held the bucket under the stream. "What are you washing that bucket for?" Judith looked toward the voice. There on the side porch almost hidden by the Virginia creeper sat her sister, Margie, and Cousin Cora. Judith's insides began to quiver. She wished that she was like Margie, who never wanted to find things out for herself but always did what the grown-ups liked. "Why can't you be like Margie?" had been a whip held over Judith by aunts and cousins and school teachers until she always felt guilty when Margie was near. Why wasn't she? Judith didn't know. She struggled and struggled against lots of things and then did something wrong after all, but Margie did the right thing almost every time without even having to try. "What are you washing that bucket for?" Judith's tongue answered Margie's voice before her thoughts were gathered up, "Because Lee-Lee dirtied it." She rinsed the bucket and slapped a handful of the cold water over her face, then bounded like a rabbit across the street to her home. At the door caution spoke again, but Mother was sewing and didn't even glance at her. Judith replaced the pail and slipped out-of-doors again. But she didn't feel right. She didn't want to play with the other kids. She wandered out to the haystack and sat down in the fat shadow the hay made on the side toward the east. Her thoughts stirred round and round. Now, why had she said that Lee-Lee dirtied it? Of course, it was just the kind of trick Lee-Lee would do, but he hadn't. Well, it didn't matter. No one would punish Lee-Lee. What if they asked him, and he denied it? None of the kids would believe him; no one ever did. But what if Cousin Cora believed and made a fuss? Oh, well, Lee-Lee would bawl loud as a calf, and she would say, "Don't cry, Lee-Lee, and you can have an egg to go to the store after candy." Then Lee-Lee would get the candy, and nobody would be punished, and it didn't matter. Everybody would forget even if they paid any attention to Lee-Lee's noise—or would they? Would Margie? Or would she get suspicious and tell Mother? If she did, Mother'd say, "Judith, what have you been up to?" Then she'd get it all out of her and send Artie down to the corner where the willows grew. He'd pick a tough one that would make Judith's legs tingle even through the heavy, coarse-ribbed stockings. Mother boiled up quick, because she was almost never well and had too much to do. Maybe Mother'd tell Father, and he wouldn't do anything; but he'd look like a judge, sad and bothered and ashamed, and that'd hurt worse than a switch. Why did she have to tell the fib, too? Wasn't the swiping of the buttermilk enough? If she had to make up a story, why couldn't she have thought of one that wouldn't blame anyone else, even Lee-Lee? But she had—but nobody knew, and Lee-Lee wouldn't get hurt, and it didn't matter. Maybe they wouldn't ever find out, but maybe they would. Maybe Margie just hadn't gone home yet, and so hadn't had a chance to tell Mother. Was that Mother calling now? No, that was Aunt Becky calling Hugh. It was the "oo" she'd heard. She wasn't caught. Judith's legs were cramped. She got up and peeked around the stack. The kids were so busy with their ball game that nobody noticed her. They didn't even miss her. She wandered away and crawled through the fence into Grandpa's lot. She strolled through the flower garden. One last moss rose was in bloom and smelled sweet in the sun. She touched it, and it fell, a mass of pink petals scattered over the "old man" leaves. She stepped forward, and her stogy little shoes crushed a sprig of the pungent herb. She'd have to get out of there. Grandma would scold if she saw the damage Judith had done. She sat under the willow tree and looked for four-leaf clovers. She couldn't find even one. She picked a dandelion, slipped the large end of the stem into her mouth, and curled her tongue around it. She pulled it out and in, out and in, and the end began to curl in two even little circles. She ran the curls clear up to the shining flower and picked another and began again. Finally, there were six little dandelions that ended in twin curls, but it wasn't much fun without Margie to compare curls with and to beat at numbers. Oh dear! The sun sank lower, and Judith knew she should go into the house, but her feet refused to point that way. She sat down in the shadow of the hay again, but now it was long, almost to Grandpa's fence. "Judith! Judith Rawson!" That call meant business. She'd better face the music. She ran toward the house. Her sharp, brown eyes searched her mother's face. It was cross and anxious. Judith held her breath. "What do you mean staying out as late as this? Your father will be home before I can get your hair combed and before you can put on a clean dress. You know your father likes to see you clean. Get in here." Mother's hands were too quick and careless with the wire brush. They were even worse with the comb. Judith's head hurt, but she didn't say anything. Mother was just cross because she was late getting cleaned up for Father. Mother always had the children in a shining row at night, and Judith had crowded her. Then the buggy came around the corner, and Father drove into the yard. He called for Artie and turned the rig over to him and came straight into the house. He caught Judith and Margie in his arms for a kiss, and when he set them down he put his arms around Mother. Mother went with him into the bedroom. Judith wondered if Mother did know and was going to tell him now. But the door opened, and they came out. Father had his evening clothes on and was as clean as the kids. It was Father she'd hate worst of all to have know. Why? She wondered. Well, maybe it was because Father knew so much. Like that time she took the tantrum. She had done it lots of times, and Mother had been worried and let her do what she had wanted to do in the first place, but this time Father had been home. Judith got angry and lay down on the floor and rolled over and over until her head was on the linoleum. She wanted it there because the linoleum was hard and made more noise. Mother couldn't hear the noise, but she could feel it, and that worried her. Mother ran to pick her up, and then Father had stepped over and had caught Mother in his arms. He had laughed while Mother struggled. Mother had shouted, "Dave, she'll hurt herself." Then Father had spoken loud enough for Mother to hear. "Nonsense, Emily. That kid's smart. Leave her alone, she'll stop when she finds out it doesn't pay." Mother grew quiet in his arms, and that had ended those tantrums. Father knew everything. Judith watched his face now. No, she decided, he hadn't been told; so Mother didn't know either. Father got three chairs and placed their backs together. Everybody knelt down, and Father began to pray. He prayed a long time, and then he said, "Keep us kind and truthful." Judith peeped between her fingers, but Father wasn't looking at her. Pretty soon he said, "Amen." They got up, and Father and Artie put the chairs up to the table while Mother dished up the supper. Artie said the blessing. It was almost a Sunday dinner. There were new potatoes and green peas, salt side-meat, and tapioca pudding for dessert. There were round, red radishes and lettuce cut up fine with vinegar and sugar over the top. But it didn't taste as good as on Sunday, and Judith couldn't eat as much. Mother said, "Clean up your plate, Judith," but when she couldn't, Mother added, "You'd better leave those green apples alone." When supper was over, and Sarah and Margie did the dishes. They were older than Judith and did more of the things to help Mother. Sarah was almost grown up. Errands were about all they asked of Judith, except to pick gooseberries and outdoor things. Artie and Judith sat on the edge of the bed, and Mother got the book. It was a new one called Uncle Tom's Cabin. They had finished Ishmael, or In the Depths, a long time ago, and then Up From the Depths. Now Mother sat in the big wicker rocker with its gingham cushions and began to read. Margie and Sarah could hear the story if they were quiet with the dishes. Mother's soft voice ran on and on, and Father pulled out his handkerchief. It didn't go back into his pocket; he needed it too often for his eyes. Finally, Father began to nod, and Mother closed the book sharply. The dishes were done, the reading hour over, and Mother lighted the other lamp and took it into the bedroom for Father to undress by. She made up the lounge and pulled the curtain around it. Artie went behind the curtain. The girls undressed, and Sarah blew out the light after Margie and Judith got under the covers. Then Sarah crawled in on the outside. Margie slept against the wall. Judith lay in the middle. The middle was always hers, and Sarah talked cross and sometimes slapped her for wriggling, but tonight she didn't wriggle once. She lay still and thought and thought. When Judith thought, she did it from the toes up, tense as a button on a twirling string. When she and Margie had said their prayers just before they climbed into bed, she had thought about asking God, but she hadn't. The little girls always said their prayers in a whisper, and if she asked God, Sarah and Margie might hear the question. Then they might tell Mother or maybe keep it to make Judith give them her new ribbon or something. If she didn't whisper her prayers but just thought them, then they'd tell Mother she hadn't said them. So Judith had said her usual prayer, the one that Margie and Sarah might safely hear. She guessed God knew anyway. Didn't He know everything? Shucks, He probably even knew why she had done it, and why she had blamed Lee-Lee. Why had she anyway? But what was the use? It didn't matter. It's a queer thing about being wicked. You can keep things from Margie and Sarah, you can keep things from Mother, you can even keep some things from Father, but... Judith wished she could sleep. She thought about asking forgiveness, but whom could she ask? Nobody else knew, and nobody had been hurt. And repentance? She thought a long time about repentance. She guessed that if you repent

 

 ed you didn't ever do it again, but you couldn't make this time not be. Maybe, after awhile it would heal like a burn, but would it leave a scar? She remembered how she and her cousin Alice had been burned by a bonfire. Alice was fair skinned, and her burn had healed into a little pink scar that hardly showed any more at all, but Judith's had made a brown spot on her dark skin that showed a lot. Judith wondered if souls were like that. If scars could be seen on your soul, it would look a sight no matter how sorry you felt. And how could you get rid of scars? Some day she'd ask Father. He knew everything. There wasn't much use asking Mother things like that. She worried so much, and when you worry you can't think. She had worried all afternoon about being caught and being switched; and now that she hadn't been caught, she knew that it hadn't been the switching at all. Judith, lying between her two older sisters and staring into the violet stillness, was just preparing to tell herself once more that it didn't matter, when she remembered something. Father had said that any time anyone kept saying, "It doesn't matter," you could put it down that something mattered a great deal. Suddenly she saw the truth. Looking at it was like looking at the sun —it hurt. You told little lies to avoid the truth just as you rubbed your eyes with your knuckles to stop the hurt, but the more you did, the harder both the sun and the truth were to face. Then she understood who really cared what Judith did, and she could go to sleep.