Getting A Share of the Great Heritage of Poetry Carlton Culmsee Half a millennium has crept by since Gutenberg began printing with movable type. But a cloud hangs over the five hundredth anniversary of printing, for the nations of Gutenberg and Caxton, both great early printers, are at war with each other; and the torrent of propaganda from the presses is almost as harmful as the black hail from the skies. The first half of the Printing Millennium has brought remarkable mechanical facilities. Will the second half bring a sane application of them? It will—if we can breed a race of human beings whose minds are noble and whose emotions are disciplined. One way to rear lofty-minded men and women is to nourish children's minds upon the greatest thoughts of all time, upon ideas and emotions wrought to highest strength and beauty by the best poets. By "best poets' I do not mean exquisite poseurs juggling daintily with words or human "sensitive plants" sighing in ivory towers, but poets as strong and sound in their view of life as in their literary art; poets in the sense in which the old Hebrews used the word, when it was synonymous with prophets. Thanks to printing, such poets are probably in your home now, ready to enrich all the family. They can turn a receptive mind into a gallery of magnificent images and thoughts. Also, as "the unacknowledged legislators of the world," they can help discipline and direct the impulses and emotions. But in this age that is over-proud of being "practical," the question arises: How can a love of the highest poetry be cultivated? Here are a few suggestions: First, begin early; begin to cultivate this taste in your child while he is in infancy. Then it is more likely to grow deep roots, and to live a long, robust life. It will not have the sometimes sickly tinge of the late-acquired, the reluctantly dutiful, the half-convinced. Repeat choice passages to the child in arms, as you would sing a lullaby. As time goes on, jewelled phrases and images, even occasional couplets and stanzas, will cling in his mind and will be treasures for life. True, they will not yield up all their meaning until they are illuminated by experience, but they will offer him beauty of melody and rhythm and may serve him as touchstones and standards of excellence. Second, begin with the right materials. A child, of course, is not a 'little adult"; but poetic passages of simple, strong beauty are preferable to mental baby food prepared by mediocre minds. The music of well-matched words is delightful, and rhythm is one of the most fundamental and engrossing elements of life; it beats time in the rising and setting of the sun and the moon, in the lapping of waves, in the shuffling of feet in a dance, in the pulsing of the blood. Both the harmony and rhythm of poetry may be enjoyed by the very young, and both will 518 cause the charmed mind to retain some of the messages that they carry. The argument that children should first be given literary baby talk has logic in it; it reflects a reaction to an old fallacy about a child's ability to understand. But it has led to a good deal of "talking down" to children. I am not disparaging simplicity, but the use of cheap nonsense of no conceivable value. Musicians have, as a rule, a better appreciation of this problem; they know that a child does not unravel all the intricacies of a fugue, but they do not therefore sentence the youngster to listen only to the beating of a tomtom or to the trumpery-thumperies of Tin Pan Alley. Why not, for example, inculcate an early liking for the Bible through the reading of wisely selected brief bits from the Psalms or other scriptural poetry, read not in a sepulchral or ominous or mechanical way but in the fervent or joyous tone of chants of praise? The Bible, to be sure, offers difficulties. In some senses, Professor R. G. Moulton believes, it is a most inappropriately arranged and printed book. In form, the verse in it has been sunk to the level of the prose. Some of the best poems are unsuitably titled and others have no titles at all. A plane of uniformity has been achieved by leveling off the high points with a division of the material into verses and chapters. But fortunately, Hebrew poetry did not employ rigid metrical patterns, and it has been translated, with its devices of alliteration, antithesis, and parallelism, more successfully than have the classics of other languages. When biblical poetry is judiciously arranged in free 

 

 verse form, to show the structure that the Hebrews intended, the beauty is enhanced and is more readily appreciated. Moulton's Modern Reader's Bible enables one to find the poetry and to read it as poetry, not as prose cut into often arbitrary paragraphs. For young children, the passages chosen should be very brief to match the shortness of a child's attention, should be concrete and strongly rhythmical, and should be repeated until they become familiar, for children delight in rhythmic repetitions, and they retain them. Why not also cultivate an early taste for Shakespeare? There is abundant beauty in the great dramatist for youngsters if the poetry is properly presented. Even if the mother attempts no more than such lovely figures as "Night's candles are burnt out" and "the morn, in russet mantle clad," and some of the simple, beautiful songs from the plays, the child receives subtle values, and has the door opened to a real appreciation in riper years. And it need scarcely be pointed out that the culling of these bits renews and extends the mother's appreciation. At first glance, Milton seems unpromising for children, but his shorter poems, such as "L'Allegro" and "On the Morning of Christ's Nativity," afford an entrance into a realm of high beauty. And as we advance in time through Burns and Wordsworth and Keats, Tennyson and Browning, Emerson and Whitman, we see what a splendid heritage we have and what cultural riches we can confer upon the young, no matter how remote we may be from the great centers. GETTING A SHARE OF THE GREAT HERITAGE OF POETRY Modern poetry offers more difficulties of selection. In the first place, there is the financial yardstick with which we often measure the success of today's literary men. Part of Edgar Guest's prestige was due to his reputation of having made poetry pay exceedingly well, for "practical" people felt that they could safely admire him. But best sellers are not, of course, necessarily best. Poverty, on the other hand, is no proof of excellence in a writer. A great deal of first-rate poetry has come, not out of shabby garrets, but out of the homes of the well-to-do. In the second place, a wave of coarseness and gratuitous frankness in literature has helped make us perhaps unduly appreciative of some tenth-rate writing simply because it is "wholesome." But we must not be misled by the antiseptic purity of some cheap, sentimental verse or by its catch phrases exploiting the very real appeals in the words "the flag," "home," and "mother." We should ask of these writings not merely whether they are morally sanitary, but whether they are sincere and artistically sound, or whether they were ground out like some commercial product by a chap with his tongue in his cheek. One argument for reading cheap verse is that, being widely appealing, it educates the masses to poetry. Beginning with "easy" verse, they may eventually work up to the classics. This notion sounds plausible, but it is analogous to the idea that we must complete our economic foundations before we can start building our spiritual towers; the weakness is that utter preoccupation with the physical is perilous to both our spiritual 519 and our physical objects. It seems to me that the cultivation of bad taste is a hazardous method of developing good taste. In the third place, there is the matter of fashion. For some time it has been more or less fashionable in some literary circles to be disillusioned, cynical about idealism, pessimistic about man's destiny. Such a state of mind has led some poets to write verses such as these: "For you and me a name of mud, A rash of stars upon the sky, A pox of flowers on the earth; To such diseases of the eye Habituated from our birth." Seeking original material and feeling the undertow of modern pessimism, some poets create ugliness, not beauty, and exert a benumbing influence. It is not hard for a reader to become bewildered about life when he feels that he ought to like the literature of disillusionment and helplessness, and yet ought to cling to courageous and far-sighted religious principles. Among those who are impressive contributors to the poetry of pessimism is Robinson Jeffers, who has created beauty of a kind but who tends to regard man in a hopeless light. At the other extreme, Robert Frost stands high for strong simplicity, careful forms, beauty, and a stalwart attitude toward life. Two aspects of the development of taste—beginning early and using the best materials—have been discussed mainly from the viewpoint that a mother is reading this with her children in mind. A third aspect concerns the self-improvement of the individual. It is this: the way to obtain real insight into the values of 520 great poetry is to write poetry, to learn through creative effort to appreciate what has been called "the most difficult art." No one undertaking verse-writing partly to deepen appreciation should be content to jot free verse. In a novice's hands, free verse is misleadingly easy to do, but it is likely to remain choppy prose distinguished chiefly by undisciplined emotionalism. Rather, one should study the mechanics of traditional verse forms and attempt these forms. This activity is a fascinating hobby. Only rarely, of course, does it lead to the discovery of high lyrical gifts in the 'prentice poet; but it always strengthens the power to see more depth and beauty in the masterpieces of the art. If you decide to take up verse-writing, you will find An Introduction to Poetry by Hubbell and Beatty (Macmillan) helpful. The book discusses the principles of verse and gives numerous examples, old and 

 

 contemporary. As you study different rhythms and meters, rhyme schemes and stanza forms, write your own verse with the best models in view. Begin with simple, dignified iambic; try sprightly trochaic; go on to the longer swing of anapestic and dactylic rhythms. As you master each tool of the artist, you will deepen your appreciation of great poetry. You will see, for example, how an artist can take plodding iambic pentameter and use it with his own distinctive style, giving it infinite variety, subtly harmonizing the verse with his thought and emotion in a dramatic way, and raising his expression to a sublime height of beauty and power. Then you will be able to derive much more from that great heritage of the race to which prophets and poets have contributed for thousands of years, and which can give endless hours of high pleasure, many ennobling experiences. BOOKS Rapt in reverent revery, I scan The familiar titles one by one; Fancy sweeps over Time's lengthening span, I meet again rarest friends I have won. I look at the covers, the new and old, With the miser's keen, idolatrous eye; I recount the Soul's fine gold they enfold, Of more worth than the miser's gold can buy. I recall the wits, poets and sages With whom I dream and think and laugh and live; By the lilt and the pith of their pages I relive the truth and mirth they give. —Nephi Jensen. Women In Literature Elsie C. Carroll Part II Some Women Novelists Women writers have achieved success in novels as well as in poetry. George Sand was a distinguished French novelist. Selma Lagerlof was not only one of the greatest literary geniuses of Sweden, but of the world. She was awarded the Nobel prize for literature in 1909. England has produced several great women novelists, as has America. This article will consider three women novelists whose books are being used in the Relief Society literature lessons this year. George Eliot (Mary Ann or Marian Evans) is known for her faithful picture of the part of England in which she spent most of her life, for the distinctness and authenticity of her characters, and especially for her truthful insight into the workings of the human mind and soul. She is considered not only the first great psychological novelist in English literature, but one of the greatest in all literature. This power to reveal the motives back of human actions, the inevitable results of certain actions, is portrayed in all her chief novels—Adam Bede, The Mill on the Floss, Silas Marner, Romola, Felix Holt, Middlemarch, and Daniel Deronda. In her latest novels she became more analytical and philosophical than in Adam Bede and others of her earlier ones, but in all of them she was deeply concerned with the study of conscience. In all of them, too, she shows great earnestness, tolerance, sympathy with noble aspirations, brilliant powers of wit and keen insight into human nature. She recognized that all of mankind are made up of good and bad; so she has in her novels no angels and no demons, but real men and women working out their destinies with the powers of good and evil which surround them. All her stories have an ethical formula. "No matter where she begins she always comes quickly to an incident which discovers the moral quality of her characters, and then she proceeds slowly with their self-revelation." She has been compared to a scientist, who with his scalpel lays bare the brain and the heart. She reveals the springs of human misery and joy, the elements that govern the growth of happy or unhappy consciousness. Her great law of conduct is "the act and its consequence." Here characters are never fixed. They evolve as real human beings do under the influences of heredity and environment. She reveals that man has two selves. One speaks with the voice of duty. It tells us to meet bravely every circumstance in life. The other speaks with the voice of passion and egoism. If we follow it we find destruction. The decision as to which voice we follow is a matter of individual choice. Her motto might be: "By our deeds we are saved or lost." George Eliot gave to the novel 522 a new quality in the manner in which she embodied a note of morality in her realistic treatment of the life about her. She has often been compared to Shakespeare in her ability to see into the inner-spring of human characters and trace the effects of action upon personality and character, and so upon the ultimate success or failure of the lives she depicts. Elizabeth Page in her studies of history and biography at Vassar and Columbia, in her work with the Y. W. C. A. In France during the World War, in her social work with a charity organization following the war, and her assistance to a Wyoming physician, learned not only much about the past history of her country, but also much about the present problems and needs of America, and about human nature in general. She relates an interesting story of the preparation of her latest and greatest novel, The Tree of Liberty. Her history study in college made her feel that the men and women who made our country were very vital in our present world. Speaking of her study, she says: "Across the gap of years I saw real people, confused, most of them, by the puzzling issues of their times, often not conscious of the solution of their difficulties even when they had stumbled on it, always dying before the full effects of their activity could be known." Recognizing a parallel between the situation of our historical forefathers and those struggling with significant problems in our life today, and feeling that the experiences of the past had a definite bearing upon the present, she was impelled 

 

 to share what she so clearly saw. So she set about to prepare her great novel. For five years she devoted herself to intensive research, which included the reading of hundreds of books and articles. She states that the nine pages of references at the end of The Tree of Liberty include but a small portion of the works consulted. Besides this vast amount of reading, she visited all parts of the country included in the setting of her novel, some places many times. She relates how she went repeatedly to the reconstructed home of Jefferson and devoted days to careful study of every aspect of the place which might have a bearing upon the character or history of the great statesman. In attempting to unravel the mystery of a little stairway, which she thinks once led from Jefferson's bedroom to the nursery, she was convinced of the tenderness of the distinguished man. She says: "A man who could keep a silky lock of hair from each of his six babies in the drawer of the table beside his bed to the end of a very long life, each carefully labeled in envelopes worn with much handling, would not be beyond preserving such a stairway so closely associated with happy memories." She says that she knew from the beginning that Jefferson must be an important character in her novel but that she must find someone else very close to him to be the central figure in the story, for she could not take liberties with real characters to make her story what she wanted it to be. After she formulated her character, she says she guessed three times before she learned that his name was Matthew Howard, but that she WOMEN IN LITERATURE "knew from the first that he was as tall as Colonel Jefferson's son Tom and that he had red-gold hair and grey eyes." She states that she found Jane Howard in a picture in the home of her cousin, though Jane has certain characteristics of her own sister. She determined from the first to take no liberties with her historical characters. But to her surprise, her created characters demanded the same fidelity to fact. She says of the Howard family, through which she reveals the life of the most important epoch in the making of America, "I started with a family tree, and they went on to demand floor plans of every house they occupied and street maps of every town they visited; and they did not stop there. They insisted that I must be very sure of what they really would say and do before I set them in motion; and they sent me to Virginia twice, all the way from California, to make absolutely sure I knew what they meant about some matters of dispute between us. That sounds foolish, but I know of no other way to express the strangely external pressure which a 'character' exerts to attain and preserve a consistent development.... Is it any wonder I feel as if these people were all of them real—even though occasionally I know better." The best of it is, Miss Page makes her characters all real to us and helps us to feel the significance of the link which joins us with the past and the benefit the present may, if it is wise, derive from that past. Bess Streeter Aldrich because of her depiction in many of her fine novels of pioneer life very similar to that of our own 523 state and because of the beautiful idealism in her characters is a favorite author with Latter-day Saint women. Another bond between her and us is the fact that she taught school one year in Salt Lake City. In a letter to the writer of this article she says of that experience: "Yes, I taught one year in the Lafayette School in Salt Lake City, way back in 1905-1906. The San Francisco earthquake was a big item of that spring. Mr. Coombs was our principal; and after we heard the bad news, he ordered the children to go home and return with all the bread their mothers would let them have. We placed chairs across the corner of his office to form a bread bin and piled the loaves there on newspapers. By early afternoon a carload of bread from Salt Lake was on its way to the stricken city. "I taught one of the first grades. The teachers of the four rooms on the first floor represented the Mormon Church, the Catholic, the Jewish synagogue, and the Methodist, and we got along beautifully." In this same letter, Mrs. Aldrich tells other interesting things about herself; for instance, the fact that her husband passed away in church, and that while she was a young widow with four small children she stayed very much on the job of rearing them. She mentioned that her daughter, who is a graduate of Nebraska University, a member of several honorary organizations, "now has two lovely children" which is "best of all the things that have come to her." One of her sons is an artist in New York. (He did the paper jacket for her late book, Song of Years, which is a part of the literature course.) Another son is an 524 aeronautical engineer, and her youngest is a sophomore in the University of Nebraska, where he recently was awarded an honor in writing. All through her letter, Mrs. Aldrich reveals herself to be the same type of woman she depicts so satisfyingly in her novels. It is said that when she heard that a statue was to be erected to the pioneer mother in her state, she wrote her tribute to the pioneer mother in A Lantern in Her Hand, a tribute to nobility as great as any statue ever carved. She says she would have written the book even had she known that not a single copy would be sold. She little dreamed at that time that the novel would go into seventy large printings and make her the object of gratitude of thousands who would like to erect statues to genuine greatness but who lack the power she has to carve from words the dreams of their souls. Another of her greatly loved novels is White Bird Flying, which followed A Lantern in Her Hand. It, too, has the idealism which marks her tribute to the pioneer mother, the idealism to be found in all her novels. Dr. Blanche Colton Williams states that, "In her first novel, Mother Mason, the author's ideals, repeated in all her later works, fuse the tales, give them meaning, Woman, Mrs. Aldrich believes, is primarily wife and mother and family-builder and conservator of the race. Aspirations she should have, must have; but aspirations that imply the destruction of the home should never supersede her place in the home, the aim and end of woman's existence." Another critic's comment is: "Her greatest asset is her sanity, a sanity such as we are in sore need of today. 

 

 She sees life not as a marsh where dwell foul things, nor yet as a mountain-top inhabited by beings only a little lower than the angels, but as a plain upon which live people like those we all know and call friends. Such people are vastly more difficult to create, to make interesting than those of the depths and the heights. She meets the challenge: her people live—they engage our affection." Her Miss Bishop is the first full-length novel based upon the life of a school teacher. Some readers feel that she is the Laura of this interesting story. She dedicated The Rim of the Prairie to her husband. This, and her latest book, Song of Years, depicts pioneer life in her native state, Iowa, as do others; such as, A Lantern in Her Hand. The lives of her own parents afforded ample material for the inspiration of these pioneer volumes. In the latter novel, she says: "Love is a light that you carry.... Childish happiness, romance, motherhood, and duty light it... And maybe afterwards, sorrow. Love is to a woman a lantern in her hand." Of her last book, Dr. Williams writes: "To read Song of Years is to follow an in memoriam not only of pioneer days in Iowa but of the first national crisis. Rough shod, homely, beautiful, the novel is more than a work of fiction: it is a monument to painstaking research in our history. Above all it entertains through the struggle of humanity 'pulling through' against difficult, even dangerous odds." And that can be said of the novels of the other women writers here discussed. Furthermore, they are themselves all women with the idealism they portray in their novels. Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde III Diaries And Letters Two of the most unique forms of literature are found in diaries and letters. Comparatively few diaries have been kept, and fewer still have fallen into the hands of publishers. Those of people of importance which have reached the public have furnished interesting facts of history as well as sidelights on the personalities of the writers. Diary-keeping is a modern custom. None has been found which dates farther back than the 16th century. Only two diaries of English sovereigns are available to us—those of Edward VI and Queen Victoria. The diary of Edward is very formal in its style, although it was begun before he was twelve years of age. Just before his death, at the age of sixteen, he wrote in his diary, "I fell sick of the measles and smallpox." Wherever he wrote the word "Me" he used a capital "M," perhaps because he felt the importance of his position. The diary of Queen Victoria was begun at the age of thirteen. Until her death at the age of eighty-two, she made daily entries, filling more than one hundred volumes, an almost unbelievable accomplishment. She said she formed this habit because she considered it her duty. Her diary is not too interesting, but it portrays in detail her domestic life, her court life, and her personality. We feel her enthusiasm for simple things, and how lacking she was in pretense. When only sixteen, she wrote: "I love to be employed. I hate to be idle." Her character gave us the much used term, "Victorian." Quite different in style is the diary of Fanny Burney, the English author of the early novel "Evelina." She was a real diarist. She had an unusual facility for expression and wrote because she "couldn't help it." Her education in music and the fashionable society in which she grew up lend an unusual charm to her diary. Most of the published diaries are those of people of prominence. Expecting that they might be published, many such people write only what they want known. It is the diaries of obscure people which are most valuable; for example, those of our parents and grandparents, written not for the public but as a vent for their emotions or out of a desire to keep a scrapbook of events as they occurred. Great people write of great events, but it is the obscure person who puts in his record what he has for dinner, when he used his first toothbrush, why he has his particular religious convictions, and other intimate things which give a realistic picture of the writer. The bad grammar and sometimes poor spelling of our grandparents in no way detract from the merits of their diaries. On the contrary, such things add to their value. Let us preserve these old records exactly as they were written. 526 Letters may not be quite as spontaneous as diaries, for they are written with the knowledge that they will be read by someone else. However, they form an interesting type of literature. We find fine literary flavor in the letters of such famous people as James Russell Lowell, Charles Lamb, Lord Tennyson, Robert Louis Stevenson, William James and others. There is no finer reading for young people than the letters of Hans Christian Andersen, of Victor Hugo, of Martin Luther. And those of Phillips Brooks, published as A Year of Travel in Europe and India, written to his niece Gertie, would make geography an interesting study. Phillips Brooks, the great preacher, had no children of his own; but his love for children led him to write charming letters to his nieces. A book has recently been published of the letters of Lewis Carroll. Those who are fond of Alice in Wonderland will find a new friend in Lewis Carroll—a friend with a distinctly interesting personality. We reproduce here three charming letters of famous men. The letter of Martin Luther to his son Hans, which gives us his religious philosophy, was written more than 300 years ago, yet it has never grown old and is still beautiful. Notice the punctuation and lack of paragraphing. Luther's Letter to His Son Hans, Aged Six Grace and peace in Christ, my dear little son. I hear with great pleasure that you are learning your lessons so well and praying so diligently. Continue to do so, my son, and cease not. When I come home I will bring you a nice present from the fair, I know a beautiful garden, where there are 

 

 a great many children in fine little coats and they go under the trees and gather beautiful apples and pears, cherries and plums; they sing and run about and are as happy as they can be. Sometimes they ride on nice little ponies, with golden bridles and silver saddles. I asked the man whose garden it is, "What little children are these?" And he told me, "They are little children who love to pray and learn and are good." When I said, "My dear sir, I have a little boy at home; his name is Hans Luther; would you let him come into the garden, too, to eat some of these nice apples and pears, and ride on these fine little ponies, and play with these children?" The man said, "If he loves to say his prayers and learn his lessons, and is a good boy, he may come; He then showed me a beautiful mossy place in the middle of the garden with a great many golden fifes and drums and silver crossbars. The children had not yet had their dinner, and I could not wait to see them play, but I said to the man, "My dear sir, I will go away and write all about it to my little son John, and tell him to be fond of saying his prayers, and learn well and be good, so that he may come into this garden; but he has a grand-aunt named Selme, whom he must bring with him." The man said, "Very well: go write him." Now my dear little son, love your lessons and your prayers, and tell Phillip and Jodocus to do so, too, that you may all come to the garden. May God bless you. Give Aunt Selme my love and kiss her for me. Your dear father, Martinus Luther. In the year 1530, (Coburg, June 19th) Note the bigness of the heart of Victor Hugo. Letter of Victor Hugo to His Daughter Didine Good morning, my pet; good morning, my dear little girlie. I promised to write to you. You see I am keeping my word. I have seen the sea, some fine churches, and some pretty country. The sea is large, the churches are handsome, the country is pretty; but the country is not as pretty as you, the churches are not as handsome as your mama, and the sea is not as great as my love for you all. My pet, I have often given half-pence to SOME LITERARY FRIENDS poor children walking barefooted by the roadside for your sakes, my little ones. I love you dearly. A few hours more and I shall be kissing you on your two dear little cheeks, and also my big Charlie and my little Dede, who will give me a smile, I hope, and my beloved Toto. Goodbye for the present, my Didine. Keep this letter. When you are grown up, I shall be old, you will show it to me, we shall love each other dearly; when you are old, you will show it to your children, and they will love you as much as I do. We shall soon meet. Your own Daddy. The imaginative nature of Hans Christian Andersen could not be kept out of his letters. Letter of Hans Andersen to a Little Friend Dear Little Marie:— Pappa and mama can read this letter to you, as you cannot read it yourself yet; but only wait till this time four years; ah, then you'll be able to read everything. I know. I am in the country now like you.... It is so nice, and I have had some strawberries, large, red strawberries, with cream—Have you any? One can taste them right down in one's stomach. Yesterday I went down to the sea... And sat upon a rock by the shore. Presently a large white bird that they call a gull came flying along. It flew right toward me, so that I fancied it would have stopped me with its wings; but, mercy on us, it said, "Mamaree!" "Why what's the matter?" I asked. "Mamaree!" it said again, and then, of course, I understood that "Mamaree" meant Marie. "Ah," said I, "then you bring me a greeting from Marie, that's what it is, eh?" "Ya-ya! Mamaree," Mamaree," it said. It couldn't say it any better than that for it only knew the gull language, and that is not very much like ours. "Thanks for the greeting," said I, and off flew the gull. After that, as I was walking in the garden, a little sparrow came flying up. "I suppose you now have flown a long way?" said I. "Vit, vit," (far, far,) it said. "Did you see Marie," I asked. "Tit, tit, tit," (often, often, often) it said. "Then give my greeting to Marie, for I suppose you are going back?" I said. "Lit, lit," (a little, little), it replied. If it has not come yet, it will come later on but first I'll send you this letter. You may feed the little bird, if you like, but you must not squeeze it. Now greet from me all good people, all sensible beasts and all the pretty flowers that wither before I see them. Isn't it nice to be in the country, to paddle in the water, to eat lots of nice things, and to get a letter from your sweetheart. H. C. Andersen. With all the changes that have taken place in the last 150 years, this letter of a Quaker father to his son, is still filled with sound advice, particularly the N. B. Which reads, "Take care of the little money thee has for thee will find that to be a friend where all others have forsaken thee." To Isaac Shreve From His Beloved Father Alexandria, 29th, the 5th month, 1794. Dear Son Isaac: Thee is now going from under the care of thy loving father, whose eyes have been ever watchful for thy good, into the wide world. Thee will be now under the care of Captain Very, who will advise thee for thy good and I would wish thee to be advised by him. I have thought it most for thy good for thee to go to Salem to learn the trade of a tanner. If Captain Very can get thee a place to suit, I would advise thee to stay; if not, come home by the first opportunity that offers. As thee will be among strangers, take good care how thee forms acquaintances. Let them be friends (meaning Quakers) if possible, and steady, sober lads, older than thyself, and the fewer, the better. A young man's happiness both in this world and that which is to come, in a great measure depends upon the connections he forms when young. Keep steady to meeting and to plainness both in speech and apparel and the God that made us will protect thee from all harm. Above all things, be true to thy trust and defraud no man though 528 the thing be small. But do unto men as thee would that they should do unto thee. And by so doing, thee will gain the esteem of all good men and thy master and come up in the world a useful member of society. Thee will have peace in thy own mind which cannot be taken away but by actions which I hope thee will not be guilty of. If I should be spared to live until thee comes of age, I am in hopes to be able to set thee up in thy intended business, so that by care and industry thee may soon get above the frowns of this world. But if I should be taken from works to rewards, thee may expect an equal share of what I leave behind me, provided thee conducts thyself in a sober, orderly manner, If thee agrees to stay, I shall send thee a certificate which thee must take to the monthly meeting. As there will be many opportunities, I would have thee to write often and let me know if thee stand in need of any

 

 thing, and I will endeavor to furnish thee from time to time. I want thee to serve five years and a half. Then thee will have some time in the winter which will give time for thee to prepare for settling thyself in the spring following. I now recommend thee to that God that has protected me from my youth until this time (my father having died when I was about four years old). And I am sure He is the same Heavenly Father that ever He was and will remain to protect and preserve all those that love and fear Him. From thy loving father Signed Bery Shreve. N. B. Take care of the little money thee has for thee will find that to be a friend where all others have forsaken thee. I shall furnish thee with small matters of money according as I hear of thy behavior. Often read this advice and endeavor to follow it. REQUITE O do not weep for me; I shall return When April looses blossoms from the bough With pink and gentle fingers. You shall learn My voice anew when rains fall soft; and how My hand will lie in yours, then lift your hair In brief but lingering caress—the way It used to do. And then I shall be there When moonlight in the garden follows day, Day so bright it seemed to mock your pain— But somber now; leaves move, a white moth dips; These roses painted pale are ours again, For I shall drink their breath, then kiss your lips. O do not weep for me; my love is yet So near your heart—my heart cannot forget. —Jessie J. Dalton.