NOTES TO THE FIELD
Membership Drive Time For Action
MEMBERSHIP work has rested for a season. Now it is again time for action?industrious and concerted action. We need to bring together our most creative thinking and tactful determination to insure an increase by December 31, 1941, of one-third of the 1937 membership. Relief Society is challenged to assist in meeting a present-day need. We, as Latter-day Saint women, desire to strengthen our homes. A comprehensive knowledge of the Gospel, a clear concept of the Latter-day Saint way of life, can fortify us and our families against demoralizing influences. Our challenge is to search out those who are not now Relief Society members; also, to revitalize our enrolled members who are not actively participating. Let us convince them that Relief Society can give purpose and direction to their living, and that they, in serving a glorious cause, enrich the lives of others. It is a reciprocal opportunity. A summary of material presented in the membership department of the Relief Society April, 1940, conference was reserved for this issue of the Magazine, believing that it would better serve the membership workers if presented just prior to the 1940 drive. Due to the shortened educational year (October through May), the time of the intensive membership drive has been changed. Instead of extending from September 15 to December 15, it will now begin October 1 and close December 31. Since "well begun is half done," we urge a preparation meeting far enough in advance of the opening date of the drive to insure efficiency from the start. Stated briefly, our job is: get them coming, keep them coming. We are told that sponsors of new radio programs and advertising schemes usually allow two or more years for an idea to "take hold." The past two years' performance in membership growth assures us that the Relief Society Membership Campaign has taken hold. With a receptive attitude already built up among our Church membership, we are confident that the work this year will be even more pleasurable and successful. Substantially larger gains in new membership will result in unity and strength to the whole body of Latter-day Saint women.