Visiting Teacher MESSAGES TO THE HOME
How We May Honor Priesthood in the Home
No. 2
Divisions of Priesthood?The Aaronic Priesthood (Tuesday, November 5)
"Teach them (your children) to honor the authority that God has bestowed upon his Church for the proper government of his Church." (Gospel Doctrine)
THE Aaronic Priesthood is so called because "it was conferred upon Aaron and his seed, throughout all their generations." (Doc. And Cov. 107:13) In this day, it was brought to the earth by John the Baptist, who ordained Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery to the Aaronic Priesthood, May 15, 1829, near Harmony, Pennsylvania. "The power and authority of the lesser, or Aaronic Priesthood, is to hold the keys of the ministering of angels, and to administer in outward ordinances, the letter of the gospel, the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins, agreeable to the covenants and commandments." (Doc. And Cov. 107:20)
The offices of the Aaronic Priesthood are deacon, teacher and priest. A boy may be ordained to this Priesthood at the age of twelve. He receives first the office of deacon. When he is fifteen, if he has proved faithful to his duties, he usually is advanced to the office of teacher; at seventeen, he may become a priest. A deacon acts as a help to the bishop of his ward in many ways; such as, collecting fast offerings, cleaning meeting houses, acting as ushers at meetings and passing the Sacrament. A teacher may perform the duties of a deacon and also visit the homes of the Church members once a month to take a message from the bishop, to inquire as to conditions of people, and also to teach the Gospel. A priest may teach, preach, baptize and administer the Sacrament. He may ordain others to the Aaronic Priesthood. (See Doc. And Cov. 20:46-59)
Home Discussion Helps
To hold the Priesthood is a strength to a boy or young man if he honors it and holds it sacred. It helps him to overcome temptation and to live better. It affords through its activities and quorums opportunity for training in leadership, for intellectual and spiritual development.
"MORMONISM is strong because God is its author?the engineer directing its course?and all the might of Omnipotence is behind it, impelling it on to its destiny. It is the everlasting Gospel, the saving, glorifying power of God, the power by which He carries on His mighty and marvelous work, bringing to pass the immortality and eternal life of man."?Orson F. Whitney.
Work-and-Business
NUTRITION
Lesson 2
Health for Your Eyes (Tuesday, November 12)
NUTRITIONAL CARE OF THE EYES
Good general nutrition is reflected in the eyes. Eye health is now known to be affected specifically by vitamins A, B, and C.
VITAMIN A AND EYE HEALTH
Vitamin A prevents and cures Xerophthalmia, which is the Greek name for dry eye. Deficiency of this vitamin affects the epithelial tissues of the eyes and tear-secreting glands. Total blindness results if vitamin A deficiency continues too long. Nutritional night blindness, which is the inability to see in dim light, is another result of a diet low in vitamin A. Night blindness comes on so gradually that vision may be impaired without the person realizing it. People concerned with nutrition research feel that the prevalent low vitamin A diets may be the cause of many automobile accidents which occur after dark or in the dim twilight. Lack of vitamin A affects the rods of the retina, thus narrowing the range of vision. Car drivers so afflicted fail to see cross traffic when approaching intersections. They may not see pedestrians at the side of the road. Their side vision is not sufficient to prevent them from cutting in to cars running by their side. Vitamin A regenerates the visual purple in the retina of the eye and sharpens one's sense of color discrimination. Fish liver oils, liver, fish roe, egg yolk, butter and cheese are our best animal sources of vitamin A. The best vegetable sources are the green, leafy and the yellow-colored ones, such as spinach, kale, escarole, chard, beet greens, carrots. Tomatoes, apricots, prunes, and yellow peaches are also very good sources.
VITAMIN B FOR EYE HEALTH
Keratitis is a blinding eye disease which affects the cornea. Lack of riboflavin, a member of the vitamin B complex, is now seen to be the cause of keratitis. Clinical tests using this vitamin with patients whose vision was badly impaired resulted in a restoration of normal vision. Best food sources of riboflavin are liver, milk, eggs, and the dark green, leafy vegetables.
VITAMIN C FOR EYE HEALTH
Diabetic patients frequently have impaired vision due to bleeding from the tiny veins and arteries in the retina. Vitamin C strengthens the fragile walls of these blood vessels and keeps this bleeding tendency under control. In the clinical tests, the use of the vitamin B complex along with vitamin C showed marked improvement in this eye condition. Brewers yeast and liver were used as the sources of the B complex.