[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Article | Title: Tribute]

tributes of an attractive personality indicate that the most outstanding are: attractive physical appearance, intelligence, pleasing temperament, and sound character. Of these temperament and character are the most important. It is a common belief that temperament is inherited, but it now seems probable that this assumption is incorrect. "Temperamental reactions are learned habits formed in the early years. Much of the fundamental nature of temperament has been determined by the end of the first three years." The child's temperament consists of his attitudes toward the various phases of life. These attitudes are developed, not born. "Children who are gloomy or optimistic, suspicious or trustful, timid or courageous, loving or hateful, have been taught these modes of feeling, or they have stumbled into them, for these characteristics are not inherent in child nature." Regarding character much has been written and detail will be unnecessary here. The most admirable

and most successful characters seem to be based on attitudes of love and trust both in a supreme being and in fellow man. Fundamental also is faith in their own ability to live happy useful lives. But even these characteristics are implanted in early childhood.
Diverging from the positive values of character let us consider some of the most outstanding pitfalls into which children drift and often remain with consequent damage to their personalities. Some of these are excessive modesty, suspiciousness, bashfulness, withdrawing into one's self, desire to play alone, constant whining, fears, day dreaming, demands for attention, sensitiveness, sulkiness, and anger. Of these fear and anger seem to be most damaging. Fear has played such an important part in breaking down personality that eminent students of mental health speak of it as the "chaos of fear," and the "bogey of fear." Many fears are in the subconscious,
influencing lives without the conscious knowledge of the person. It probably produces more unhappiness and more abnormalities than any other known cause. It can be overcome by proper treatment. A fear carefully examined usually disappears. A fear should be replaced with a situation which a child can meet with confidence, keeping his faith in God and restoring his faith in himself. We should provide in our training for the formation of the habit of facing difficulties now and practically, for the need of constructive work, and for habits of normal reaction to feeling?or healthful emotions.
It is our aim in child welfare work to help mothers lay the foundations for these healthful mental attitudes of normal buoyant personalities equipped to develop the greatest possibilities of life. The more we learn of the exact science of creating adequate well integrated personalities in our children the more progress we make, the happier we help to make the lives of generations now and to come.
First General Session
WHO'S WHO IN RELIEF SOCIETY IN 1937
By Ida Petersen Beal
A golden opportunity is ours to draw to your attention the Who's Who in Relief Society for the year 1937. Ten Magazine agents have "gone over the top" in securing the highest percentage of subscriptions. We wish to thank all our Magazine Agents who have been so earnest in their efforts. These splendid women have worked so faithfully, unmindful many times of their own physical discomfort, and we see them and their labor as a bright background for our Who's Who today.

The women who rate as our Who's Who come from many sections of the United States, and one from faroff Australia, which they say "lies under the world." Naturally we ask, "How did they do it?" What was their equipment? Some few items are listed which have helped materially in their success. When on duty, they were prepared; pencil, paper for accuracy, reinforced with prayer, purpose, personality, and perseverance. They translated an ideal into a purpose and
they have brought honor to our beloved organization. So in behalf of the Relief Society it is a pleasure to present each of these ten women, with a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine for 1937 in recognition of their achievement. The names of our winners are as follows:
1.?Hurstville Branch  Violet Cook
2.?Worland Branch  Clara Gheen
3.?Milo Branch  Lila Gildea
4.?Cody Big Horn  Zelda Moore
5.?Elko Nevada  Claris Cameron
6.?Basin Big Horn  Lova Kinghorn
7.?La Grande First Union  Emma Stringham
8.?Pittsburg Australian Mission  Gwen R. Wrathall
9.?McGill Nevada  Louisa Johnson
10.?Eighth Ogden  Alta H. Poulson
Big Horn Mission
North Idaho Falls
Eastern States Mission