[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 38 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Magazine
Address]

ADDRESS
By Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon
As I have reviewed the Relief Society in the ninety-six years of its existence, I have come to the conclusion that it is the greatest welfare organization of women in the world. I know of no other with the number of members and engaged in the same field which is doing such splendid volunteer welfare work and performing other activities as efficiently as is this organization.

I have here a brief statement prepared under the direction of the General Presidency of Relief Society, not entirely complete, of what was done in a general way in cooperation with the Church Security program last year in 99 out of 118 stakes. I will take time enough to read it: Number of Quilts made, 4,097; Number of New Articles of Clothing Made, 8,452; Number of Articles of Clothing Remodeled, 15,808; Number of Quarts of Fruit Canned, 102,803; Number of Quarts of Vegetables Canned, 134,585; Number of Pounds of Fruit Dried, 42,205; Number of Pounds of Vegetables Dried, 4,479; Number of Families Taught to Put Up Their Own Food Supplies, 3,301; Number of Families Taught to Do Their Own Sewing, 2,293; Number of Women Given Work Relief in Canning Centers, 2,027; Total Number of Days of Work Relief in Canning, Sewing and Other Centers, 40,850; Number of Women Given Work Relief in Canning, Sewing and Other Centers, 3,997; Number of Women Who Have Given Volunteer Service in Canning, Sewing or Other Projects, 14,319.
The volunteer service was given by women who are largely engaged in their own households, but who also work in Relief Society as officers and teachers, finding time to give much service for the benefit and blessing of others. In addition thereto, the Relief Society has collected and has disbursed for relief in cash donations last year $67,632.00. To me this is a very remarkable statement. When the report is entirely complete it will doubtless show about 16% more.
In my experience of twenty-one years while in the Stake Presidency, and approximately thirteen years in the Presiding Bishopric, Relief Society officers and teachers have shown themselves to be among the
most active and dependable workers in the Church.
A question has been presented to me which I have been requested to answer. The question is: "The Relief Society has been given the responsibility of making investigations, and finding the needs of the families. When this is done and the report given to the Bishop, and he ignores the report and says the family doesn't need the help suggested, what is the Relief Society President to do?"
To answer that properly I should like to present it to the particular Bishop concerned. But I will say that all should appreciate the importance, as they have been requested to do, of having the Relief Society officers who are trained in the essentials of social service, investigate for them all cases who desire relief, and recommend the necessary help. Also they should have the Relief Society administer the relief under their direction.
The Bishoprics have a great variety of responsibilities. Besides, they do not have the facilities at hand to investigate for themselves. To conserve their time, and to employ the means available through the Relief Society Social Service, this work will be more effectually done. Except in very urgent cases the Bishopric should not expend money for relief on any cases without having the investigation and the recommendation by the Relief Society officers. If that is done I am sure that in every case greater justice and fairness will be shown.
There are people who will try to take advantage of the Church. I had a telegram from the Branch President of one of the Eastern cities only yesterday, in which a man who had just arrived from the West, asked for relief upon his arrival there. How could he travel all the way to that Eastern city and then have
spent all his money and be in need of help? There may be conditions where people might be short of means temporarily. But for people to travel across the continent and ask for help immediately upon their arrival, looks rather suspicious. It is rather surprising to me. It happened that we had in our office a reliable report from California that this man had been for years going from ward to ward begging from various Bishops, depending on the Church, without doing anything in return. We suggested if he were able to get to Washington he should find a way to get back to his home, that we do not encourage those in need to travel from place to place. They should remain in their own communities, because there they have established residence, and they are entitled to help either from the County, Government or Church where necessary. But when they come as strangers, it is not fair that they should call upon the Church organizations for help; and they certainly cannot get it from the Government or County relief sources.
The Relief Society Social Service workers are trained in the essentials of social welfare. They are generally women of mature experience, possessed of the spirit of kindness, sympathy and good judgment. When they make a report to the Bishop as to whether or not any families need help, I feel, and I have told the Bishops, it should be their pleasure to accept the Relief Society recommendations. The Relief Society is generally better able to get at the real conditions and to distribute relief fairly and sympathetically. If the Bishop refuses to do that, I can only say the Bishop, under the revelation of the Lord, is the judge in Israel and he must be responsible. As a judge, he should accept the information about what is needed by those
who are competent to advise, and he should rightly approve their recommendations.
We are so concerned to see that the Bishoprics avail themselves of the fine social service of the Relief Society in properly determining and caring for the needs of members in distress, that we shall call this important matter again to their prompt attention.
I need not say how important it is to try and bring about conditions which will enable the people who are on relief to obtain employment. It seems there are some conditions prevailing at present throughout the nation which are interfering with economic improvement, and the employment that should be available. There are many factors which appear to be favorable toward increased industrial activity throughout the nation. We must all realize that the way to increase employment must come through fostering private industry. Yet we must take conditions as they are and try to make the best of them by promoting employment and furnishing relief wherever necessary among the members of the Church.
I would like to say a few words about what I think the women of Relief Society can do. This proposition of developing handcraft is one that will offer possibilities. For example, in one of the hotels in this city, the draperies for the windows were woven and made in a little backwoods section of West Virginia by a group of women in that locality. There is much in the nature of handicraft being fostered by Relief Society that may develop into very worth while industries, and there are many more, as suggested by Director Peterson, that can be promoted throughout this State.
Another thing I would like to mention is the importance of civic and home improvements. By advancing cleanliness and neatness and by tree
planting and all of those things that help to beautify, homes and communities are made much more attractive. In the early days, if you drove through Davis and some parts of Utah Counties, you would find a lot of very beautiful evergreen trees, junipers, pines, firs and others of the evergreen type, and also evergreen shrubbery. They give a greenness and life to our communities in the winter. If we plant some evergreens by the sides and as a background to the houses throughout our communities, it gives life, greenness and beauty and adds much to our surroundings.
In the communities as a whole there is the matter of improving home surroundings. I noticed throughout California that if they cannot afford paint, they will at least whitewash their out-buildings and fences. This is very much worth while. It costs so little to get a little whitewash for these buildings, and it gives a neatness that cannot be obtained otherwise. Of course, good paint is still better in appearance and as a protection for wood.
There is a statement made by President Brigham Young in this connection. Speaking to the women of the Church in early days he said: "It is your right, wives, to ask your husbands to set out beautiful shade and fruit trees, and to get you some vines and flowers with which to adorn the outside of your dwellings; and if your husbands have not time, get them yourselves and plant them out. Some, perhaps, will say, 'O, I have nothing but a log house, and it is not worth that.' Yes, it is worth it. Whitewash and plaster it up, and get vines to run over the door, so that everybody who passes will say, 'What a lovely little cottage!'"
This advice is just as applicable today as it was then. May I suggest to you mothers,
that after all, the greatest responsibility which rests upon you and your husbands is the training of your children, the greatest resource we have in this state and nation and in this Church?the training of young people to resist vice and immorality, to resist the temptations which will interfere with their progress. Temperance, clean living, and morality are the strong points in the building of character. In connection with the Spirit of the Lord they will help our young people to grow in righteousness. We are in the world, but we are not of the world. We have to meet these temptations,
but let us train our children to learn to resist them. We cannot hide or conceal vices, but we can advise, counsel and train our children so that they will have the power in themselves to resist such temptations as they are bound to meet in life.
The addresses by Director William Peterson of Utah Agricultural College, and Henry D. Moyle, Chairman of General Church Security Committee, will appear in a later issue of the Magazine.
Second General Session
The following are organizations and reorganizations since October Conference.
ORGANIZATIONS
Date  Stake  Appointed President
February, 1938  Mount Graham  Ethel D. Payne
  (Divided from St. Joseph)
February, 1938  Phoenix  Elnora Shupe
  (Divided from Maricopa)
January, 1938  Smithfield  Annie M. Farr
  (Divided from Benson)

REORGANIZATIONS
Date  Stake  Released  Appointed President
Jan. 1938  Benson  Annie M. Farr  Lula E. Johnson
Feb. 1938  Summit  Myrtle Richens  Katherine M. Judd
East German Mission?Ida D. Rees
West German Mission?Susan G. Kelly
Swiss-Austrian Mission?Fawn B. McKay
Dec. 1937  Big Horn  Hazel N. Boyack  Mary Davis
Feb. 1938  Maricopa  Elnora Shupe  Ella T. Lee
Feb. 1938  St. Joseph  Ethel D. Payne  Martha Westenskow
Jan. 1938  Union  Fay H. Harris  Ellen S. Bean
 
STANDARDS OF LIVING
By