[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: The Magazine In The Mission]

THE MAGAZINE IN THE MISSION
By Lewella R. Christiansen?Texas Mission
The Magazine is an effective aid in missionary work, especially in teaching women of the world the practical, cultural and spiritual sides of Mormonism. It is a real missionary. Sometimes women of other beliefs are hesitant to read the regular missionary tracts and pamphlets but are attracted by the poems, stories, lessons and articles of the Magazine. In this way the Gospel truths are presented in an indirect manner which makes an appeal, and a simple foundation is laid for the missionaries to build upon.
In one of the branches in Louisiana, we have a Sister whose husband is in the paper business and also mayor of the city. Recently she was asked to join some of the very fine clubs. She said to me, "I was asked to give a talk to my club and I found material for that talk in the Relief Society Magazine and was highly complimented. I also gave a talk at the P. T. A. Meeting, again taking the material from the same source."
The distribution of sample copies helped prepare the way for the organization of the Gonzales Relief Society. Realizing that there were a great many things in it that would build people, I wondered what was the best way to have everyone read it. So I outlined a program, to be given solely by Relief Society women at a Sunday service. The talks were short and well prepared and based on carefully selected articles from the Magazine. The program proved interesting and uplifting and acquainted those who listened with the rich content of the Magazine, besides giving the most timid women a chance to participate.
The Magazine has been used: as gifts for birthdays and Christmas, and to bring cheer to those who are numbered among the shut-ins. One can receive comfort and culture from the Magazine. I think the Lord inspires those who write the wonderful material found in it.
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Belle S. Spafford, Editor
In order to give both large and small wards equal opportunity to participate in the awards given at April Conference we are now dividing the wards into groups according to enrollment. There will be three groups, A, B, C.
Group A will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment of 100 or more.
Group B will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment of 50 to 99, inclusive.
Group C will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment up to 49.
To the four Ward or Branch Agents in each group obtaining the highest percentage, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the Relief Society General Conference held in April.
To all Ward or Branch Agents not receiving a bound volume, who obtain subscriptions equal to 75 per cent or above of their net enrollment, provided such subscription lists contain a minimum of 25 names, a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine will be awarded. In case the Agent does not want the free subscription herself, it may be sent to some one designated by her.
Report Forms. New report forms for both wards and stakes will be sent to the stake representatives this year. We are indebted to Sister Christina V. Wilson of Bonneville Stake for suggesting these very fine forms. They are self-explanatory and must be very carefully filled out. Only stake reports should be returned to this office. Ward reports should be filled out and sent to the stake in sufficient time for the stake representative to compile and send her report to our office not later than November 10, 1938, otherwise wards cannot be included on the Honor Roll published in December nor receive free subscriptions.
Enrollment figures are based on active, honorary, and inactive enrollment. The enrollment as of January 1, 1938, will be used in figuring 1938 percentages. These figures must be identical with those given in the Secretaries' annual report.
Order Blanks. Send subscriptions on order blanks, furnished by our office. Writing should be legible. State the proper address of the individual to whom the Magazine is to be sent, the street number, if there is one, and the name of the town and the state. Please state the month when the subscription is to begin. Failure to do this often causes duplication, the subscriber receiving two numbers of one or more issues.
Receipts. Keep all receipts sent by this office. These are a check for us and for you in case of errors. Complaints must be made within two months in order to be rectified.