[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society]
Relief Society Conference
April 1 and 2, 1938
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary

THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held April 1 and 2, 1938, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison presided. The following sessions were held: Officers' Meeting, Social Welfare Department, Work and Business Department, Relief Society Magazine Department, Secretaries' Department, Music Department. Two general sessions were held in the Tabernacle. The reception for the Singing Mothers, the one for the State Officers, and the President's Breakfast were delightful events.

The attendance was very gratifying, and included enthusiastic workers from 116 stakes and 12 missions. The following is the attendance record at the Officers' Meeting held in the Assembly Hall, Friday morning, April 1, at 10 o'clock: Mission Presidents, 12; Stake Presidents, 108; Counselors, 135; Secretaries, 67; Board Members, 404; Total, 726. The ushers were from the Salt Lake and Liberty State Relief Societies.

Among the outstanding features of the Conference were the magnificent music, and the launching of the Membership Campaign. In connection with this, special attention must be called to the membership song, "One Hundred Thousand Strong," composed by Beatrice F. Stevens of the General Board of Relief Society. The "Rallying Song" was introduced by a double trio from the Ensign Stake, directed by Ruth Jensen Clawson, and a talented group representative of Relief Society members with Jean H. Wessman as accompanist. Others whose talents in music added much to the meetings were Lily Priestly's organ prelude, Inez Robinson Preece's quartet, and the beautiful solo by Eliza Bringhurst. The combined choruses of Relief Society Singing Mothers, directed by Charlotte O. Sackett, with Alta B. Cassity and Frank Asper as accompanists, made Relief Society history.

OFFICERS' MEETING
GREETINGS AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
By President Louise Y. Robison

MEETING with the devoted leaders of Relief Society is a continued source of joy and inspiration.

REFERRING to the ruling on donations received by Visiting Teachers, we feel more strongly than ever that all donations collected by Visiting Teachers belong in the Charity Fund. If members of Relief Society or others wish to contribute to the General Fund, we shall be most grateful to them if they will give or send such contributions to the President or Secretary of the Relief Society.

WE would like to emphasize the request that officers refrain from using Relief Society for advertising purposes. The fine project for better methods of laundering clothes brought many offers from soap manufacturers for demonstration in Relief Society. We are quite opposed to having any commercial article featured in our meetings.

WE have received many compliments from the General Authorities of the Church, morticians, and from Relief Society Presidents on our suggestion that funeral flowers remain undisturbed until after the mourners have gone from the building. We were advised to take this action by members of the General Authorities.

IN a few of our stakes, a charge is made for luncheon served on Work and Business day. We hope you will find some other way of obtaining finances. Many of our sisters would be happy to pay for their luncheon, but in each ward there are fine, faithful members who cannot afford this expense and who will not feel comfortable in attending these meetings.

THERE are occasionally Ward Presidents who do not work in harmony with their Stake President. They do not attend Union meetings and feel that they need no advice in the conduct of the Relief Society work. This is a serious condition. There must be complete harmony between stake and ward officers or the work of Relief Society suffers. Before any woman accepts an office in any department of Relief Society she should know what the requirements are and be willing to live up to them. Unless ward officers give loyal support to stake officers, they cannot expect loyalty from their own group. Remember always that the spirit of the Lord is with us only when there is harmony and a desire to cooperate for the good of the whole group.

WE have had a wonderful response to the hurried request sent from our office a week ago for a report on what the Relief Society had done for Church Security. The Presiding Bishopric asked us to get the report for the First Presidency to use at Conference. Within a week, ninety-nine stakes and missions had reported. Although the Southern States Mission is so far away our Mission Mother, Sister Clayson, had her report in the office on time.

IN making the survey for the clothing requirements of our people Relief Society has discovered some families in urgent need at the present time. In a few cases the bishops have requested the Relief Society to supply those needs from their funds. Evidently these bishops are new in the work, as Relief Society has not now, nor ever has had, sufficient funds to care for rent, light, food and clothing. Relief Society offers service. Our funds are to be used in cases of emergency and to supplement the work of the bishop.

THERE are some very fine organizations outside of our Relief Society who are working for the benefit of humanity. We are eager to have our Societies cooperate in spreading useful information but we are opposed to having regular Relief Society class work interfered with or having dues to any other organization collected in our meetings. To the extent that individual members can subscribe to these helpful movements we are in hearty accord, but this is entirely outside of the Relief Society.

WE advise Relief Societies to cooperate with the Agricultural Colleges, with the county agents and demonstrators in any state in which they reside. These trained people have valuable information on the needs of the body and the kinds of food which supply those needs. Deficiency diseases, which result from improper diet, are as great a menace as the contagious diseases. To understand the chemical requirements of the body and to know the foods which supply those needs is of great importance to mothers.

WE are making a change in the Relief Society Magazine Honor Roll awards. Instead of all Relief Societies competing on the same basis, there will be three groups. One group will include all wards and branches with membership up to 49 inclusive. One group will be those Societies whose membership is from 50 to 99 inclusive, and a third group will include those with a membership of 100 or over. We feel this is more just.

Presidents will please appoint a member of the Board to be responsible for the activities of ward Magazine Agents. We have had heartbreaking experiences when some of the ward Agents, who have worked very hard to get subscriptions, have sent their reports to the stakes and the stakes have failed to get the information to headquarters in time for the credits to be awarded.

WE acknowledge with deep appreciation the very interesting publications which come to us from the missions. One recently reached us from Sister Nibley of the Northwestern States Mission with some very fine reports. The Northern States Mission sends them to us frequently. They are most helpful. Sister May Green Hinckley of the Northern States Mission gave us the very fine idea of placing useful Relief Society information on the back of our membership cards. We shall adopt this suggestion when we print other cards.

May the Lord bless you with vision to see the needs, and health to carry forward the work in a manner pleasing and acceptable to yourselves and to our Heavenly Father.

ANNOUNCEMENT
By President Louise Y. Robison

THE Government has appointed Miss Daisy Duncombe to make a survey of the hard of hearing who are living in Utah. If you know any persons who are hard of hearing, please advise them to communicate with Miss Duncombe, 1259 Sherman Avenue, Salt Lake City, giving information relative to age, sex, and education.
