[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Achieving The Goal]

ACHIEVING THE GOAL
By Clara B. Wright?Salt Lake Stake
As a group in Union meeting we have studied the pamphlet, "Instructions To Magazine Agents." We have spent several Union meetings in intensive study. By our first Union meeting we have prepared and handed to President Williams a year-round program. In February our Stake Secretary gives us the entire individual ward enrollments. As a group in Union meeting we take these figures by wards and analyze them to find out just how much work has to be done each month, as we feel that it takes twelve months to accomplish our work. By carefully watching subscriptions we are able to secure large percentages.
A yearly report is compiled by the Stake at the close of the year and on the day that we make our awards in Union meeting this report is handed to the ward Magazine Representative who in turn takes the report to her President. We have found this has been a stimulus for effort the next year.
To illustrate: The Seventeenth Ward has an enrollment of 175 for 1938. Their total 1937
Magazine subscriptions were 123. Since October 1937, they have secured ten new subscriptions which makes a total of 133 subscriptions. 175 total enrollment minus 133 subscriptions equals 42 subscriptions to obtain in order to reach 100 per cent. From March to October is six months, and 42 divided by 6 equals 7 new subscriptions to be obtained each month. Of course we must not lose one active subscription. To guard against this we carry a pocket note book record of all subscriptions.
Special ward activities were used in achieving the goal. In one ward the President worked with the Representative. By interesting non-members of the Relief Society in the Magazine and by receiving small contributions here and there they were able to place 11 subscriptions in homes where the Magazine had not been before. The Relief Society gave eight subscriptions to retired Visiting Teachers from money taken from the General Fund.
In another ward the President and Magazine Representative called for volunteer service during the summer months in the cause of Magazine work. Another ward gave as a Christmas gift a year's Magazine subscription to each of the six oldest members of their organization.
In several of our wards the Presidency and Magazine Representatives have gone out in the interest of increased membership and the Magazine and have been more than successful.
In three years through these and other activities we have been able to raise our percentage from 21 per cent to 85 per cent, and we feel that it has been worth while.