[Vol25 | May 1938 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business meeting]
Work and Business meeting, echoing the past. We find sweet music in the songs of long ago. Besides these lovely family songs, we may use some written by our women. This would be a fitting place for their inspired contributions.
A special music program suggests itself for the Literary lessons. Characters and the historical period in which the book was written provide suggestions. New songs of various types, solos, ensemble numbers, both vocal and instrumental, furnish a wealth of music material which may be used in the music department.
Lessons portrayed in the form of a tableau accompanied by music are very effective. Songs of our country and songs of home are appropriate for the Social Service lessons.
A typed outline given out each month at Union meeting, might include material to build a background of music for the chorister as well as for the lessons. Current musical events of the various wards, stories of the hymns and of the composers are interesting.
The calling of the chorister is a sacred one. To her falls the joy of bringing correlation of lesson and song, and of bringing the beauty that testifies to the reality of the spiritual life.
Amy W. Evans, Chairman
President Louise Y. Robison was the first speaker in this department meeting. She briefly discussed the subject, "The Relief Society and Child Welfare," a subject very dear to her heart. The Relief Society has always given very special attention to child welfare in its study program and in its activities, stressing the Word of Wisdom, cooperating extensively with state and federal agencies in carrying forth the work. She concluded with an earnest appeal for women to put forth every effort in setting higher standards for this work.
NUTRITION AND ITS RELATION TO CHILD WELFARE
By Dr. William McKay
As public health workers we are delighted to know that the mothers are devoting so much of their activities to the study and solution of vital health problems. By giving place on your program to the subject of nutrition and child welfare, I think I can safely assume that you, as representatives of the Social Welfare Department of the Relief Society of the Church, are convinced that throughout our state there is ample evidence among our children of the lack of proper nutrition. A study of the reports of the many health agencies and dental clinics showing the numbers of physical defects, the prevalence of malnutrition, and the very high percentage of our child population with carious teeth should be sufficient to convince anyone that education on the subject of nutrition is urgently needed.
The first question which naturally arises in our minds is, "What is the meaning of the word nutrition?" One of the best definitions I have found is that given by Sir Robert McCarrison who defined nutrition as the fundamental function on which the condition of the body, that is to say, health depends. It is not merely food, nor that which nourishes. Food is the instrument of nourishment, nutrition is the act of using it?the series of coordinated processes whereby the nourishment of the body is effected. A primary purpose of the function of nutrition is: thus, to establish and to sustain the structure and function of all organs and parts of the body?to keep, in short, the mechanisms of the body in perfect running order.
Since body development and function begin months before that body is born into the world it is of the greatest importance that our expectant mothers have a clear understanding of the importance of diet during pregnancy. Sherman of Columbia University has shown the very marked physical differences in the offspring from mothers afforded an adequate diet as compared with the offspring of mothers with an inadequate diet. Sound healthy bodies with strong, well built bones, and teeth are the birthright of every child. The foundation for these is laid long before the child is born. Every expectant mother develops a mental image of the sort of boy or girl she would like to bear. Naturally, she hopes, and may I say?prays, that her child will be strong, sturdy, well shaped, of sound frame and have beautiful teeth. Not every mother realizes that the care she takes of herself during pregnancy to ensure a safe delivery is also a vital part of the planning necessary for sound bones and teeth. Regulated diets, under competent medical supervision, mean sufficient quantities of all the essential elements needed for proper growth and development of the body and the proper formation and calcifying of the teeth and bones. Systematic schedules of rest, sleep, exercise, and fresh air are essential for the mother, and these in turn play a part in the development of the expected child. If we accept the report of our dentists that fewer than twenty-five per cent of our children have sound teeth, I feel sure that this number might be greatly increased, if our expectant mothers realized that the formation of their babies' permanent teeth begins as early as the fourth month of fetal life.
The problem of adequate nutrition becomes even more complex after birth. If the mother elects to nurse her baby and has an adequate supply of milk which the child can tolerate, the problem for the first few months is comparatively simple. She must not, however, forget the importance of the protective elements found in cod liver oil, orange and tomato juices. Felding, a German investigator, reports that of 86,000 infants in Germany in 1935 who died before reaching one year of age, one-half succumbed to dietary disturbances, caused in very many instances by lack of breast feeding.
The importance of diet as the child develops is aptly expressed by Dr. W. McKim Marriott: "As the pediatrician deals with the body during the growing period, he may be compared with the builder of edifices; the internist and surgeon with the repair men. Given a solidly constructed structure, it will last well, and the minimum of repair work will be required. We cannot alter the general plans of the architect, but we can see that the proper materials go into the construction. Two buildings of the same size, and outward appearance may differ greatly, depending upon the care taken in construction; the one may approach perfection in structure and wear well, the other, because of the use of poor materials will not withstand wear and tear. It is so with the child's body; the architectural plan of nature may be excellent, but with skimping on materials a poor structure may result."
Adequate nutrition implies far more than the attainment and maintenance of a certain body size and weight or a certain thickness of adipose tissue. A child may be of average stature for the age and have an average height-weight ratio, yet, the nutrition cannot be considered as satisfactory if the child is anemic, has weak, flabby muscles, poor posture, carious teeth, has but little resistance to infection, and is incapable of sustained physical or mental effort. The growing body must be supplied with necessary building materials to perfect its structure and to provide adequately for functional activity. If the total fuel or caloric value of the food is inadequate to provide for the energy exchange, the laying down of body tissues is of necessity interfered with, or else tissues already formed are destroyed to meet the energy demands.
What are the materials necessary for proper and adequate nutrition? They are oxygen, water, and the digestion products of proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral elements and vitamins. These may be derived from the following food stuffs:
(1) A good whole-cereal grain or mixture of whole-cereal grains or a good whole-meal bread. (2) Milk and the products of milk?butter, cheese, buttermilk, etc. (3) Eggs. (4) Green leaf vegetables. (5) Root vegetables such as potatoes, carrots, etc. (6) Legumes?such as peas, beans, etc. (7) Fruit. (8) Meat. (9) Water.
That these provide all elements and vitamins needed for normal nutrition is evident from the fact that they are the ingredients of the national diets of certain races of northern India whose physique and health, when they make use of their national diets in their entirety, are unsurpassed by any other races of mankind.
