[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Poem | Title: Provident | Author: Hill]
the  balls  of  carpet  rags  into  the  Re- 
lief Societv  closet  that  President 
Meads  put  her  arm  around  Marian's 
waist. 
"Sister  Clegg,  I  want  you  to  try 
on  this  lo\ely  green  coat." 
\\niv  .  .  .  whv  .  .  .  how  did  Presi- 
dent  Meads  know  what  had  hap- 
pened to  her  coat?  None  of  the 
other  women,  not  e\en  the  ones  in 
the  circle  of  rag  cutters,  had  missed 
the  coat.  Did  a  Relief  Society 
president  ha\c  a  given  intuition,  a 
sort  of  hea\enly  guiding  knowledge 
of  where  things  were  needed?  Mar- 
ian had  scoffed  at  such  things,  but 
it  must  be  so.  If  not,  how  did  Sis- 
ter Meads  know  of  her  need  now? 
President  Meads  went  on,  "A 
friend  of  mine  who  lives  in  another 
town  was  passing  through  in  a  car 
and  gave  me  this  coat  to  give  to  the 
Deseret  Industries.  She  said  she 
^^'as  too  loaded  and  wanted  someone 
else  to  ha\e  the  use  of  it.  Take  it, 
Sister  Clegg,  and  wear  it  proudly." 
Sister  Meads  was  holding  the  coat 
open  for  her  to  trv  on. 
Marian  slipped  into  the  coat,  and 
buttoned  it  around  her  throat.  It 
felt  good.     It  was  warm  and  well

586 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1954 
made  and  in  style.  She  turned  to 
look  at  herself  in  the  mirror.  Why, 
it  was  a  perfect  fit,  as  if  it  had  been 
made  especially  for  her.  Marian 
liked  the  green  ^^'ool  in  the  coat.  It 
was  lovely  and  reallv  more  expen- 
si\e  looking  than  she  could  have 
bought  herself.  But,  if  she  took  it, 
and  if  the  word  got  around  .  .  .  she 
and  Les  had  never  accepted  char- 
ity .... 
"Wear  it  proudly/'  President 
Meads  repeated. 
"But  .  .  .  but  .  .  ."  Marian  hardly 
knew  how  to  express  herself  tact- 
fully. 
"You  mean,  you  couldn't  wear  it, 
if  people  knew?"  Sister  Meads 
looked  at  her  kindly.  "Sister  Clegg, 
a  Relief  Society  president  isn't  even 
allowed  to  let  her  right  hand  know 
what  her  left  hand  does." 
Marian  felt  a  warm  protecting 
hand  on  her  shoulder.  She  felt  some- 
thing else!  It  was  a  certain  some- 
thing burning  within  her  bosom. 
Suddenly  Marian  wanted  to  become 
a  member  of  Relief  Society.  She 
wanted  to  become  one  with  the 
other  sisters  of  the  Church  in  this 
organization  of  loving  service. 
CJor  an  J^riist 
Vesta  N.  Lukei 
The  berries  are  red  on  the  eastern  bough, 
And  sunlight  shado\\s  the  leaves  below 
With  pebbled  patterns  from  higher  green. 
Oh,  eatch,  if  you  will,  the  vagrant  seene 
With  paint  or  pencil,  skillfully — 
But  keep  your  lo\'e  for  the  li\ing  tree 
And  always  know  that  no  word  or  brush 
Can  hold  the  song  of  the  morning  thrush. 
ibnd  of  Summer 
Beatrice  Knowlton  Ekman 
The  year  has  turned  to  the  summer's  ending 
And  harvested  fields  are  bared  to  the  sky. 
Low,  mountain  mists,  with  the  tall  elouds  blending. 
Veil  the  granite  cliffs  above  timberline. 
Across  the  valley,  vapors  are  creeping, 
Unfettered  tumbleweeds  roll  lightly  by; 
Red  apples  are  ripe  for  winter's  keeping, 
And  the  grapes  hang  purple  upon  the  vine. 
Near  canyon  streams  bright  maples  are  glowing, 
The  yellow-gold  aspens  quiver  and  sigh; 
Through  towering  pines,  cool  wind  is  blowing 
A  requiem  song  for  the  summertime.

Uxalpk 
Dorothy  A.  Johnson 
TT  was  the  sight  of  his  two  worn  little  working  gloves  that  really  touched  off  the  tears, 
-'■  or  maybe  it  was  his  boy-sized  irrigation  shovel  placed  just  so  in  the  corner  of  the 
garage  the  way  he  always  stored  it. 
I  recalled  his  last  words  as  he  hurried  away  to  his  first  morning  at  school.  "Don't 
you  go  to  the  farm,  Mother,  till  I  come  home.  Then  I'll  put  on  my  workin'  gloves  and 
get  my  shovel  and  we'll  sure  ha\e  fun." 
The  whole  family  had  become  attached  to  that  little  shovel,  and  it  had  somehow 
become  a  symbol  of  Ralph.  We  had  matched  breathlessly  the  morning  of  his  sixth 
birthday  as  Grandfather  and  Grandmother  had  handed  him  his  bulky  present. 
"Oh,  boy!  a  shovel  ....  Now  I  can  really  irrigate  your  garden.  Mother." 
How  his  eyes  had  danced  as  Grandfather  had  showed  him  his  name  printed  on 
the  handle!  ....  "Just  so  the  kids  will  know  that  Ralph  is  going  to  really  help  run 
the  farm  this  summer." 
And  how  he  had  helped!  The  whole  farm  personnel  had  smiled  at  his  enthusiasm. 
A  familiar  sight  it  had  been  to  sec  him  patrol  the  water  ditches,  his  shovel  over  his 
shoulder,  tightl}'  gripped  by  a  hand  in  his  working  glo\c,  patched  blue  jeans,  scuffed 
up  red  Indian  boots,  determination  in  his  stride,  a  proud  swing  to  his  shoulders,  his 
eyes  alight  with  the  feeling  of  usefulness  and  achie\ement. 
"You  don't  need  to  worry  about  your  strawberries.  Mother,  I  have  it  all  figured 
out  just  how  I'm  going  to  run  the  water." 
No  irrigation  engineer  could  have  had  more  thrill  from  his  blue  prints  of  a  new 
dam  than  Ralph  did  from  making  his  water  behaxc.  Such  an  elaborate  system  of  dams 
and  ditches!     And  then  the  glow  of  satisfaction  when  his  job  had  been  done. 
"\\^ell,  I  bet  that  water  subbed  through  every  row.  You  sure  ought  to  get  a 
good  fall  crop  of  berries.     I  l^ct  we  even  have  enough  for  the  magpies." 
My  little  pal,  what  a  joy  he  has  always  been!  And  how  thankful  I  am  that  I  have 
not  wasted  a  single  moment  of  in\"  lo\e  in  the  disappointment  manv  people  thought 
I  should  have  felt  in  the  arri\al  of  my  third  boy.  Perhaps  that  was  the  secret  of  our 
palship,  a  reciprocation  for  the  fierce  loyalt\'  and  extra  tender  lo\e  I  had  shown  at  his 
birth.  After  all,  we  usualh'  get  out  of  anything  the  sum  total  of  what  we  put  into 
it.     In  this  case  the  bread  I  had  cast  on  the  water  had  returned  as  cake. 
The  time  is  here  for  horizons  beyond  the  bounds  of  irrigation  ditches,  and  I'll 
be  watching  for  the  same  swing  of  his  shoulders,  the  same  determined  stride.  And  as 
my  heart  swells  with  pride  at  each  new  accomplishment,  I  know  I'll  think  of  his  first 
world  he  conquered,  the  world  of  irrigation  diiches,  with  the  aid  of  two  blue  working 
gloves  and  a  Httle  shovel  with  a  red  handle. 
Viyind  QJingers 
Grace  Barker  Wiison 
The  shutters  all  are  fastened  tight. 
My  house,  my  hearth  are  weather-proof; 
But  still  I  hear  throughout  the  night 
Wind  fingers  tapping  on  my  roof. 
Page  587
