[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V41_09_00_Misc]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - President Marianne C. Sharp - - = - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay

Vol. 41 SEPTEMBER 1954 NO. 9

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40

$1.50 Add 10e postage 2. Literature of England— Volume Il Woods, Watt, and Anderson This book contains the best in English literature, from the Romantic poets and the Victorian era down to World War II. It has a wealth of knowledge, wonderful descriptive passages and detailed character analysis by some of the world's greatest writers, $5.50 Add 25c postage Order with the convenient coupon at right. Gentlemen: Note all L. D. S. Church books will be mailed postage free. Name Address Cite eee Fs _.. 44 Fast South Temple - DESERET BOOK COMPANY Enclosed you will find ( to my account the following amount $ encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 2. Adam Bede George Eliot Here is a book filled with marvellous characterizations, vivid descriptions, and a rich philosophy of life even greater than Silas Marner and Mill on the Floss. $.95 Add 12e postage 4. Wuthering Heights Emily Bronte (Pocket edition.) This is one of the greatest romantic tragedies of all times a story of love and hatred, class distinction, pride and selfishness... The action taking place in the wild desolate moors of Eng- $ a6 Add 8c postage 5. Book of Mormon (a) Missionary Edition—plastic $.50 (b) Cloth Edition (c) Library Edition land. $1.25 $2.00 "Sal lake City Utah, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah I ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge I i for the 3 4 5(a) 5(b) 5(c). Ee a ee_ 2s I ee l ey 4.) I ee << I (=e I ~ Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. I Lo ies 7 z g is g Got your peaches? Got your pears? Get your It's the time for home canning. Fall fruit is ready and in plentiful supply. Order your canning sugar today. Sugar not only acts as a sweetening agent, but helps to preserve the natural flavor, shape, and texture of fruit. Make sure you buy pure U and I Sugar For your home canning, you can't buy a finer, purer, whiter sugar anywhere. Its performance has been tested in tens of thousands of homes and found perfect for every sugar use. When at your grocer's, always buy U and I Sugar. \ ly d Oe) SAY i MAGAZINE;: <:; 4 « ':; / VOL. 41 NO.

North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.