[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Fiction | Title: Kitchens | Author: Luce]
Kitchens for Living Celia Luce OST present-day kitchens are too small for gracious living. True, they have some advantages over grandma's huge, inconvenient kitchen, but they have lost the advantages of grandma's kitchen. 'The trend today, however, is toward a larger kitchen with a compact food preparing area and plenty of space for other activities. This combines the best of the new and the old. A large kitchen area can be more convenient than a small one. It has room for traffic lanes away from the work areas, which is more lmportant than most home planners realize. The further traffic is from the cooking and dishwashing areas, the more the homemaker can relax at her work. A large kitchen has room for plenty of large windows. 'There would be no need to decide whether to put the sink or the breakfast table under the window. 'There would be windows for both. In many families it is the custom for everyone to join in doing the dishes after a family dinner. A kitchen large enough to accommodate a group is an appreciated luxury. A large kitchen can accommodate more than the cooking and dishwashing. 'There is room for the family to enter without being underfoot. There is room for the baby's play pen and for Susie to spread out her blocks. 'There is room for a large blackboard where the small fry can draw pictures and mother can see them immediately. Page 614 No picture is satisfactory unless mother has seen it and given her approval. Many new homes have _playrooms planned as part of the kitchen. When children are tiny this keeps them happily close to mother, yet out of the way. As they grow older the space may be used to suit the changing needs of the family. When Mother starts supper, the family members, home from _ the day's activities, are drawn to the kitchen. 'Tommy wants to tell about the home run he made at recess. Mary must tell Mother about Norma's new dress. 'Tiny Susie is tired out and needs the assurance of being close to Mother. Father wanders in to join in the conversation and peek into the kettles. If the kitchen is one of these tiny affairs made just for cooking, the result is bedlam. Every time Mother moves from cupboard to stove she must run an obstacle course. Susie is in front of the refrigerator and Mary in front of the sink, while father moves here and there trying to keep out of the way. By the time supper is ready, nerves are badly frayed. A_ little extra space changes the whole picture into one of happy contentment. ATING in the kitchen is coming into its own again. With the stress on small, easily kept homes, people are discovering that the friendly kitchen atmosphere brings a happy relaxation to meals. Mother KITCHEN FOR LIVING can join the conversation better when she is not continually dashing out of the room to wait on table, and is a mere step away from the stove and the refrigerator for second helpings and dessert. If you are planing on family meals in the kitchen, allow space for a table and chairs where the famliy can sit comfortably. Room for a kitchen table pays other dividends, too. 'The table is a handy place for homework, away from the distracting evening sounds of the radio, television, and family talk in the living room. It's a good place for the crowd to gather and settle the problems of the whole world while the fudge cooks or the popcorn pops. Being relatively easy to clean, the kitchen provides a good place for working on hobbies. A hobby space in the basement is better, but if you have no basement or special hobby room, a corner of the kitchen does very well. It is especially good for Mother since she can work at many of her interests and watch the roast at the same time. 615 The kitchen is a good place to spread out sewing. Scraps and threads can be easily swept up, and the kitchen table may double as a cutting table and to hold the portable sewing machine. A utility room is often planned as part of the kitchen or adjoining it. With automatic washing and drying there is no water spilled on the floor, and the kitchen becomes a better place for the laundry than the basement. Consider the problem of the farmer's wife who thought she had planned a_ perfect farm kitchen. Every space was well used, with no lost steps. Then the deep freeze unit was invented. On the farm it ls one of her most used appliances, but the only place she could find to put it was on the south side of an open screen porch. Her planning had not taken into account any needed expansion. One final great advantage of the larger kitchen is that it leaves room for the inventions of the future. New Serial Contentment Ys a Lovely Shing. To Begin in October 66(ONTENTMENT Is a Lovely Thing," a new serial by Dorothy Spande Romney, Stockton, California, will begin in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story recounts the problems of a young couple living on a farm and their devotion to country life in spite of the opposition of the husband's father, a famous surgeon, and his wife, who believe that their son should have been a surgeon also. 'The author was born in Logan, Utah, and attended Utah. State Agricultural College. She is the widow of Elmer Romney and the mother of a ten-year-old son. Her stories and plays have appeared in many juvenile publications. FROM THE FIELD {~ Margarct C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Rclicf Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Mary E. Warnick ALPINE STAKE (UTAII), AMERICAN FORK SEVENTH WARD HONORS FOREIGN-BORN WOMEN, November 1, 1953 Front row, seated, left to right: Lupe Burciaga, Spanish-American; Dolores Johnson, Brazilian: Helena Faria Paes, Brazilian; Grace Charleston, Lamanite. Back row, seated, left to right: Bertha Loeffler, German, Martha Leonhardt, German; Marie Reimchussel, German; Helen Schmul, German; Mary Kawakami, Japanese; Susi Waki, Japanese.