[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Fiction | Title: Recipes | Author: Carter]
[Recipes for HOmemade Soap Eva Carter]
632 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1954 
DANTE  GABRIEL  ROSSETTI 
Sclf-Portrait,   1855 
nied  his  liberty  by  kings  and  popes. 
Yet,  strangely  enough,  though  his 
hatred  for  Catholicism  approached 
fierceness,  his  greatest  love  was  the 
medieval  Catholic,  Dante. 
The  Young  Art  Student 
While  the  boy  Dante  Rossetti 
had  always  known  and  loved  poetry, 
he  considered  himself  primarily  a 
painter,  and  studied  art  at  the  Royal 
Academy.  "If  any  man  has  any 
poetry  in  him  he  should  paint  it," 
he  once  said.  Dante  himself  did 
precisely  this.  The  poems  which 
he  wrote  to  illustrate  paintings  are 
word-pictures.  We  feel  in  his  poems 
warm  colors,  natural,  minute  detail, 
sharp,  beautiful  images,  strong  sym- 
bols, and  a  unified,  melodious  tone 
throughout. 
The  young  painter  -  poet  found 
much  to  criticize  in  contemporary 
Victorian  art  and  literature.  Paint- 
ers of  the  day,  he  felt,  worshiped  a 
colorless,  dull  traditionalism,  while 
poets     and     painters     alike     were 
gloomy,  choosing  subjects  which 
they  were  expected  to  treat,  and 
writing  in  a  plodding,  artificial  man- 
ner. It  is  not  surprising,  then,  to 
find  young  Rossetti,  with  his  great 
talent,  keen  intellect,  and  dynamic 
personalilv,  forming  a  new  society 
of  artists  with  himself  as  a  nucleus 
of  the  group. 
Pre-Raphaelite  Biotheihood 
The  Pre-Raphaelite  Brotherhood 
was  formed  in  1849  with  three  mem- 
bers. Within  a  year  it  included 
seven  artists,  poets,  and  sculptors 
who  believed  that  the  only  way  for 
English  art  to  save  itself  was  to 
return  to  the  subjects  and  tech- 
niques of  those  Italian  artists  w4io 
lived  before  Raphael  (1483-1520) 
and  painted  only  subjects  that  ap- 
pealed to  their  hearts. 
The  "P.  R.  B."  strove,  with  almost 
religious  fervor,  to  catch  in  their 
paintings  the  deep,  sweet  truths 
of  everyday  reality.  No  one  could 
be  more  sincere  than  they,  but  their 
sincerity  was  artistic  rather  than  re- 
ligious; sometimes  their  work  was 
affected  and  naive.  From  Keats, 
they  brought  a  sensuous  richness; 
from  Browning  they  brought  an  in- 
tellectual intensity.  It  was  by  com- 
bining both  these  that  they  made 
their  greatest  contribution  to  Eng- 
lish poetry:    the  use  of  symbolism. 
Rossetti  s  Poems 
In  Rossetti's  most  famous  poem, 
'The  Blessed  DamozeV'  (text,  pp. 
784-786),  we  find  the  best  illustra- 
tion of  Pre-Raphaelite  principles: 
We  must  protest  against  the  intellect- 
ual emptiness  of  our  so-called  painters. 
...  It  is  for  us  to  bring  dignity  and 
sincerity  back  to  art;  for  us  to  strip  art 
of  conventionality  and  go  to  Nature.  .  .  .

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
633 
We   must   be    sincere    in    onr    invention, 
truthful  in  our  representation. 
The  Damozel  is  not  only  an 
earthly  woman,  she  is  also  the  in- 
telleetual,  spiritualized  symbol  of 
woman's  divine,  mystical  beauty, 
conceived  in  much  the  same  sense 
as  Dante  Alighieri  had  contemplated 
his  Beatrice.  Rossetti's  Damozel  is 
dignified  and  exalted,  and  described 
accuratelv,  but  in  warm  detail  as 
a  beautiful  woman  should  be.  Sure- 
ly for  Rossetti  nothing  could  be 
more  true  than  "The  Blessed  Damo-