[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: But | Author: Young]
"But Where Are the Nine?" Sylvia Probst Young N the outskirts of a certain village, once long ago, ten lepers waited for a certain Nazarene to come by. And when they saw the Master, they begged him to make them whole again. He bade them to go show themselves unto the priests, and as they went they were cleansed. All ten of them were cleansed, but one—only one, turned back to thank the Lord. Then Jesus said to him, "Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger" (Luke 17:12-19). And where were the other nine? Oh, they were hurrying to the village, back to their loved ones. 'They were free of their sorrow now, free to mingle again in society. 'They had no time to go back to find the One who had healed them. But, surely, he would know that they were grateful. Are we not like these nine, many of us? One of the greatest needs in this wonderful land of ours ls the need of gratitude. We have come to accept and expect so much —too much. "I wish I had been born rich," said a young man recently, "then II would be happy." But material wealth is by no means the key to happiness. 'The happy person is happy because he has learned to be happy with the good things that are his and has not let greed or envy become the controlling factors of his living. For, surely, no physical disease is more Page 580 destructive to the body than is envy or greed to the soul. It takes constant effort to keep them from spoiling our lives. One of the happiest people I know is a little lady who lives in a very modest home. All around, beautiful modern homes are being constructed, but she has long since ceased trying to "keep up with the Joneses." "They may have bigger and finer houses," she says, "but they can never own any more of the sunlight or the stars that shine in the sky than I do." Robert Louis Stevenson once said, "The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings." Do we remember, when we look up into a summer sky or look upon a mountain painted in all the burning colors of autumn, to say, "Thank you, Father, for eyes?" Eyes to see all the lovely things in the world—the stately beauty of a tree, the delicate daintiness of a flower, the sweetness of a little child's face. When you hear the strains of a great organ, or the whisper of a little wave against a shore; or when the soft voice of a loved one speaks to you, do you remember to say: "Thank you, Father, for letting me hear all these wonderful things around me?" Do we voice our gratitude for the fragrance of a rose, the clean smell of rain, the racy scent of pines? How many of us remember to "BUT WHERE ARE THE NINE?" thank our Maker for the sense of smell? "The most miraculous thing in all the world is a pair of feet," said a woman who had learned to walk again after spending long months in a wheel chair. Never before had the ability to walk seemed such a miracle. "I took it for granted before," she said. OW much we take for granted —because we have so much here in this wonderful land of ours. Nowhere else is there such an abundance of food and clothing, so many modern conveniences in every home—so many luxuries.