[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Poem | Title: Colorful | Author: Woolsey]
["Colorful Secret," by Maryhale Woolsey]
came  into  view  a  colorful  row  of 
huge  flags  waving  in  the  breeze  and 
representing  the  many  member  na- 
tions and  proclaiming  the  inter- 
national character  of  the  gathering. 
The  official  languages  of  the  con- 
ference were  English  and  French 
and  excellent  translators  were  pro- 
vided for  both  languages.

650 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1954 
nPHE  official  opening  of  the  con- 
ference, on  Wednesday,  June  9, 
was  a  brilliant  and  impressive  affair. 
In  addition  to  the  conference  par- 
ticipants, many  public  officials  and 
other  prominent  persons  were  in  at- 
tendance, including  Madame  Alii 
Paasikivi,  wife  of  the  President  of 
P'inland,  and  patron  of  the  confer- 
ence. The  speakers  at  the  opening 
session  included  Minister  Virolain- 
en,  who  presented  the  Finnish  gov- 
ernment's greetings;  Alderman  Lau- 
ri  Aho,  chairman  of  the  city  council, 
who  bade  the  conference  visitors 
welcome  on  behalf  of  the  city  of 
Helsinki;  Mrs.  Margit  Borg-Sund- 
man.  President  of  the  National 
Council  of  Finland,  the  hostess 
council,   whose    masterful    manage- 
ment of  affairs  was  evidence  of  her 
great  leadership;  and  Dr.  Jeanne 
Eder  of  Switzerland,  President  of 
the  International  Council  of  Wom- 
en. 
A  very  effective  part  of  this  meet- 
ing was  the  formal  introduction  of 
the  chairmen  of  the  respective  dele- 
gations. Finnish  girls  dressed  in 
national  costumes  carried  the  flags 
of  the  different  nations  to  the  dais 
of  the  festival  hall  where  they  stood 
in  front  of  a  row  of  white  pillars.  It 
was  a  stirring  experience  for  me  to 
lead  the  chairmen  of  all  the  nations 
and  to  stand  in  front  of  Old  Glory 
as  the  United  States.was  introduced. 
The  theme  of  the  conference  was 
''Woman's  Responsibility  to  the 
Opportunities  and  Dangers  cf  the 
LEADERS  AT  THE  INTERNATIONAL  COUNCIL  OF  WOMEN  CONFERENCE 
Left  to  right:  Dr.  Helen  Gmur,  Executive  Secretary  of  the  International  Council 
of  Women;  Mrs.  Margit  Borg-Sundman,  President,  National  Council  of  Women  of 
Finland,  the  Hostess  Council;  Dr.  Jeanne  Eder  of  Switzerland,  President,  International 
Council  of  Women.

THE  INTERNATIONAL  COUNCIL  OF  WOMEN  CONFERENCE 
651 
GROUP  ASSEMBLED  FOR  OFFICIAL  OPENING  OF  THE  CONFERENCE 
AT  THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  HELSINKI,  FINLAND 
Atomic  Age."  In  referring  to  the 
theme,  Dr.  Jeanne  Edcr,  Interna- 
tional Council  President,  said,  'To- 
day's generations  are  fated  to  stand 
on  the  frontiers  of  this  de\'elopment 
[atomic  energy]  gazing  with  awe  in- 
to a  future  destined  to  be  very  dif- 
ferent from  the  past  into  which  the 
atom  will  bring  enormous  new  good 
or  evil,  unpredictable  today  and  de- 
pending upon  the  use  humanity  will 
make  of  its  powers." 
She  pointed  out  that  woman 
must  continue  to  carry  her  world- 
old  duties  of  mother,  householder, 
educator,  and  the  living  conscience 
of  her  contemporaries;  but  she 
asked  if  they  would  also  accept  new 
interests  and  duties  in  community, 
working  world,  native  land,  and  in- 
ternational relations.  She  referred  to 
the  present  as  a  day  ''needing  our 
work,     our     meditation,     and     our 
choice  of  values."  She  urged  the 
women  in  meeting  together  to  work 
in  friendship  and  mutual  support, 
led  by  sound  reason,  for  the  preser- 
\ation  of  the  home  as  a  vital  corner- 
stone of  society  and  for  the  strength- 
ening of  moral  and  spiritual  values 
in  community  life.  She  said  women 
ha\e  always  been  the  "creators  and 
preservers  of  life"  and  "a  source  of 
strength  and  calmness  to  their 
neighbors";  and  she  appealed  to 
them  to  continue  in  these  roles,  un- 
susceptible to  the  influences  of 
propaganda  that  create  fears  and 
hysteria. 
The  forepart  of  the  conference 
was  devoted  to  sectional  meetings 
where  matters  and  resolutions  re- 
lated to  the  respective  sections,  and 
previously  submitted  by  the  mem- 
ber councils,  were  carefully  con- 
sidered.    In  some  instances  resolu-