[Vol41 | September 1954 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Fiction | Title: Gramaw | Author: Clde]
["Gramaw" Kathryn Forbes Clde]
saw  Gramaw  sitting  in  the  low  company,  she  would  pour  the  cream 
chair  rocking  l^ack  and  forth,  back  in  a  big  crock  jar  for  churning, 
and  forth.  Sometimes  Gramaw  Once  when  I  was  only  six,  I 
started  rocking  by  the  window  and  caught  the  scarlet  fever  from  Jim- 
rocked  way  over  to  the  machine,  mie.  The  Marshal  came  and  nailed 
and  then  she  would  pick  up  her  a  yellow  sign  up  on  our  front  porch 
chair  and  start  all  over  again.  Gra-  and  he  told  Ma  that  nobody  could 
maw  always  made  me  feel  all  warm  come  in  or  go  out  of  our  house  for 
inside,  just  like  a  little  light  was  three  whole  weeks  because  we  were 
turned  on.  quarantined  in.  When  people  would 
On    Saturdays    when    I   went   to  come   past   our   place,    they   would 
visit  Gramaw  she  would  say,  ''Eh,  walk   out   in   the   street   until   they 
an  'eres  my  gurrl/'  just  like  I  was  passed  by.    Ma  said  it  was  because 
special.  they  were  afraid  they  would  catch 
Pa  had  a  joke  with  Gramaw  it.  But  Gramaw,  she  wasn't  fright- 
about  putting  "atches"  where  there  ened,  no  sir,  she  just  got  herself 
weren't  any  and  leaving  them  off  quarantined  in  with  us,  so  she  could 
when  she  ought  to  have  said  them,  tell  me  stories  and  play  games. 
He  would  say,  "Well,  Gramaw  dear,  When  all  the  scales  had  dropped 
will  you  'ave  an  'erring  or  a  hegg  off  me,  Ma  washed  my  hair  and 
today?"  gave  me  a  bath  in  the  tin  tub,  and 
Once    I    asked    my    father    what  then  Gramaw  and  I  had  to  go  sit 
made  Gramaw  talk  so  funny,  and  under  the  apple  tree  all  afternoon 
he   said,   ''Hush,   child,   she'll   hear  while  Ma  stuffed  up  all  the  doors 
you."  and    windows    and    fumigated    the 
Whenever  Gramaw  came  to  visit,  whole    house.     The    only    thing    I 
we  always  had  something  very  good  didn't  like  was  that  Ma  had  to  burn 
for  supper.     Ma  would  go  outside  my  best  doll.    Scarlet  fever  was  fun, 
to  the  cellar  under  the  granary  and  though,  and  I  told  Ma  I  wished  I 
take  me  with  her  to  help  carry  the  could  have  it  all  over  again,  so  Gra- 
things.     I  liked  to  go  into  the  cool,  maw  would  come  and  stay  with  us. 
dark  places,  which  smelled  of  white-  Whenever  Gramaw  had  supper  at 
wash    and   apples   and   carrots   and  our  place,  it  meant  we  would  have 
potatoes.  thick,  juicy  pieces  of  ham,  and  but- 
Ma  kept  the  milk  in  a  little  cup-  termilk  biscuits  so  light  that  Pa  said 
board  with  screen  wire  all  around  we'd  have  to  close  all  the  doors  and 
it,   to  keep  out  the  bugs,   and   on  windows  or  they  would  float  right 
the  days  when  Gramaw  came,  she  outside.  Then  there  were  good  milk 
would    take    a    pitcher    and    a   big  gravy  and  new  potatoes  and  green 
spoon  down  cellar  and  skim  off  the  peas,  fresh  out  of  our  garden.     Ma 
Page  610

'GRAMAW 
611 
would  scold  Gramaw  because  she 
just  ''pecked  at  her  food  like  a  little 
bird/'  but  GAmaw  always  said, 
"l\c  enough,  and  you've  enough, 
and  very  good  it's  been." 
After  supper  I  hated  to  hear  the 
Seth  Thomas  clock  make  the  little 
buzzing  noise  that  meant  it  was  get- 
ting ready  to  strike,  for  when  that 
happened,  Gramaw  would  reach 
for  the  little  black  lace  bonnet,  with 
strings  that  tied  under  her  chin. 
She  would  kiss  everybody  goodbye 
but  me,  because  Ma  always  let  me 
walk  clear  down  to  Plummer's 
corner  with  her.  There  Gramaw 
would  feel  in  her  big  pocket  and 
say,  "  'Ere  child,  'ave  a  pepper- 
mint." Then  she  would  kiss  me 
and  tell  me  to  run  back  home,  but 
I  couldn't  run  because  my  feet  felt 
heavy  like  flatirons  at  leaving  Gra- 
maw. 
We   (Don't    CDo  3t  J^//  Ourselves 
Margaret  Allen 
FRED  Ellis  has  a  wonderful  veh'et  lawn. 
I  stopped  to  admire  it  one  day  as  he 
was  out  watering,  telling  him  I  thought 
it  was  a  major  triumph. 
Came  his  modest  reply,  "All  you  have 
to  do  is  to  make  the  conditions  right,  and 
it'll  grow." 
Men  like  to  put  in  that  little  joker — 
"All  you  have  to  do  .  .  .  ."  But  I  realized 
that  Fred  had  implied  a  profound  truth — 
we  don't  do  it  all  ourselves.  We  just  make 
the  conditions  right,  the  properly  pre- 
pared soil,  the  food,  the  water,  and  culti- 
vation, freedom  from  weeds  and  pests. 
Then  the  wonderful  laws  of  nature,  the 
di^'ine  assemblv  line,  the  miracle  of 
growth,  take  over.  Our  part  is  necessary 
and  often  difficult,  but  we  don't  write  the 
whole  book,  we  only  collaborate. 
Most  parents  know  that  this  also  ap- 
phes  to  human  nature.  Making  the  condi- 
tions right  is  never  easy,  maybe  because 
normal  people  have  wills  of  their  own — 
which  lawn  grass  hasn't.  But  e\en  with 
wills  of  their  own,  normal  people  usually 
respond   to   the   right   conditions.     Love, 
first  of  all,  and  opportunity  for  disciplined 
self-expression,  pro\ision  for  basic  ma- 
terial needs,  human  fellowship — an  un- 
derstanding of  the  meaning  of  life,  a  rea- 
son for  being,  an  ideal  to  work  toward, 
the  assurance  of  God's  love.  These  are 
some  of  the  conditions  a  parent  can  pro- 
vide for  a  child,  but  beyond  this,  other 
forces  take  over. 
Sometimes  other  people  help — a 
good  friend,  a  teacher,  or  a  scout  leader, 
or  the  girl  or  boy  your  child  falls  in  love 
with  as  he  grows  older.  Sometimes  an