[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science— Full Equality in the Gospel Plan Ariel S. Bailif 560 t, r T r,]
man, social  contacts. 
Reference  was  made  to  our  failure 
to  provide  adequate  housing  for 
elderly  persons  at  costs  which  can 
be  met  by  them,  thus  forcing  many 
older  persons  to  live  under  condi- 
tions in  which  they  cannot  maintain 
decency  and  health,  or  continue  to 
participate  in  the  organized  life  of 
the  community.  Mention  was  made 
of  the  lack  of  suitable  facilities  and 
opportunities  in  which  middle-aged 
persons  can  learn  how  to  prepare 
for  the  later  years  of  life,  learn  new 
vocational  skills,  and  develop  and 
pursue  avocational  and  recreational 
interests.  This  is  driving  many  of 
our  older  persons  into  retirement 
shock,  premature  physical  and 
mental  deterioration,  and  loneliness 
and  isolation,  it  was  stated,  causing 
an  unnecessary  drain  on  the  health 
of  our  manpower. 
In  order  to  prevent  the  addi- 
tional years  of  life,  given  to  us  by 
our  scientific  development  and 
abundant  economy,  from  becoming 
a  prolonged  period  of  dying,  the 
statement  was  made  that  ''we  must 
step  up  research  on  physical,  psy- 
chological, and  sociological  factors

WHITE  HOUSE  CONFERENCE  ON  AGING 
505 
in  aging  and  in  diseases  common 
among  middle-aged  and  older  per- 
sons/' We  may  expect  the  aver- 
age length  of  life  and  the  number 
of  older  people  to  increase  still 
further.    We  must,  therefore 
.  ,  .  proceed  with  all  possible  speed  to 
correct  unfavorable  conditions  and  to  cre- 
ate a  social,  economic,  and  health  climate 
which  will  permit  our  middle-aged  and 
older  people  to  continue  to  lead  proud 
and  independent  lives  which  will  restore 
and  rehabilitate  many  of  them  to  useful 
and  dignified  positions  among  their  neigh- 
bors which  will  enhance  the  vigor  and 
vitality  of  the  communities  and  our  total 
economy;  and  which  will  prevent  further 
aggravation  of  their  problems  with  result- 
ing increased  social,  financial,  and  medical 
burdens. 
IN  planning  for  the  Conference, 
the  Honorable  Arthur  S.  Flem- 
ing, Secretary  of  Health,  Education, 
and  Welfare,  appointed  a  national 
advisory  committee  of  approximate- 
ly 150  persons  selected  from  many 
parts  of  the  Nation,  who  were 
knowledgeable  on  problems  of  the 
aged  and  on  programs  related  to  the 
adequate  care  of  the  aged.  This 
committee  was  to  determine  mat- 
ters to  be  considered  at  the  Con- 
ference, as  well  as  Conference  pro- 
cedures. The  Honorable  Robert  W. 
Kean  was  named  chairman  of  the 
committee.  Members  of  this  com- 
mittee, assigned  to  subcommittees, 
met  periodically  for  a  period  of 
more  than  one  year  in  preparation 
for  the  Conference. 
Since  it  was  recognized  that  most 
problems  can  best  be  solved  by 
action  at  the  state  and  local  levels, 
each  of  the  fifty  states  of  the  Union 
held,  prior  to  the  national  Confer- 
ence, a  state  conference  on  aging. 
These  state  conferences  aimed  to 
gather   factual    material    related    to 
the  aging;  they  defined  issues;  they 
formulated  recommendations  for 
meeting  needs  which  were  submit- 
ted to  the  White  House  Conference 
chairman. 
The  plans  for  the  White  House 
Conference  called  for  the  holding 
of  nine  separate  sections,  each  to 
deal  with  a  special  aspect  of  aging, 
as  follows:  Section  1— Population 
Trends  and  Social  and  Economic 
Implications;  Section  2— Health  and 
Medical  Care;  Section  3— Social 
Services;  Section  4— Housing;  Sec- 
tion 5— Education;  Section  6— The 
Role  and  Training  of  Professional 
Personnel;  Section  7— Free-Time 
Activities:  Recreation,  Voluntary 
Services,  Citizen  Participation;  Sec- 
tion 8— Religion;  Section  9— Med- 
ical and  Biological  Research  in 
Gerentology. 
Each  of  the  above  listed  sections 
conducted  an  orientation  session 
followed  by  work  groups.  In  the 
work  groups  the  recom.mendations 
of  the  respective  states  were  care- 
fully reviewed,  discussed,  and  out 
of  the  discussions  carefully  formu- 
lated recommendations  were  made 
for  presentation  to  the  Conference 
for  adoption.  A  statement  of  pol- 
icy was  also  prepared  by  each  sec- 
tion.
