[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Young]
[POETRY Brief Interim— Frontispiece Alberta H. Christensen 497 Lven in Silence Mabel Law Atkinson 507 Long Autumn Day Linnie Fisher Robinson 513 Down the Lanes of August Mabel Jones Gabbott 521 A Glimpse of Grace Ethel Jacobson 526 Handcart Boy Hazel Loomis 538 Too Swift the Time Paulme M. Bell 551 Conversion Evelyn Darlington 565 Mountain Meditation Vesta N. Fairbairn 565 Hollyhock Dolls Christie Lund Coles 566 First Formal Rose Thomas Graham 566 Morning Hour Evelyn Fjeldsted 567 Tranquility Marilyn Young]
very  interested  in  these  Magazines,  espec- 
ially in  the  poetry.  I  can  assure  you  I 
have  found  comfort  in  the  readings,  as  I 
live  alone,  and  the  different  messages  seem 
to  have  been  particularly  sent  to  me  to 
give  me  courage  to  carry  on.  These  mes- 
sages travel  far. 
— Mrs.  S.  A.  Thornton 
Salford 
Lancaster,  England 
Page  498 
I  would  like  a  subscription  to  our  won- 
derful Magazine  entered  in  the  name  of 
my  daughter  Mrs.  Marcia  White.  She  is 
celebrating  her  first  wedding  anni\ersary 
this  month,  and  I  can't  think  of  anything 
finer  to  give  her  than  a  subscription  to  the 
Magazine.  My  own  dear  mother  gave  me 
my  first  subscription  twenty-three  years 
ago,  the  first  year  I  was  married.  I  would 
like  to  make  it  a  family  tradition.  I 
especially  enjoy  the  lovely  covers  in  color, 
and  I  always  read  the  poetry  first.  I  en- 
joyed the  frontispiece  poem  in  the  April 
issue  "Too  Swift  the  Curve,"  by  Eva 
Willes  Wangsgaard.  It  is  delightful. 
— Mrs.  MaDonna  N.  Lemon 
Roosevelt,  Utah 
During  a  grief  and  pain-filled  period 
three  years  ago,  a  very  dear  friend  Mrs. 
Arthur  Martin  of  Salina,  Utah,  started 
sending  me  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
It  was  very  new  and  strange  to  me.  At 
first,  the  little  stories  and  beautiful  cover 
designs  attracted  my  interest  —  then  the 
recipes  and  sewing  sections.  Each  time 
I  picked  up  the  Magazine  I  found  new  and 
varied  things  of  interest.  I  began  reading 
the  lessons,  trying  to  understand  them, 
but,  without  a  reference  book  to  use  as  a 
guide,  I  was  a  bit  lost.  Finally,  the  past 
summer,  two  elders  from  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  came  to 
my  door.  I  obtained  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. Since  then  the  lessons  in  the 
Magazine  have  become  more  clarified.  I 
have  read  The  Book  of  Mormon  from 
cover  to  cover  and  am  still  enjoying  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine. 
— IVIrs.  Wallace  Jaka 
Ottawa,  Illinois 
Our  ward  has  a  wonderful  mother,  Mrs. 
Frances  Kolarik.  She  doesn't  know  me 
very  well,  and  yet  she  has  given  me  a  sub- 
scription to  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
as  a  gift  for  two  years.  Now  this  little 
Magazine  gi\es  me  uplift  and  comfort  in 
my  spiritual  life.  It  also  gives  me  faith  in 
the  future  and  in  the  spirit  of  our  home. 
— Terttu  Voskressensky 
Los  Angeles,  California
