[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visual | Author: Course]
[Visual Lesson Packet Available for Literature Course]
Visual  JLesson  LPacket  J^vailahie 
for  JLi 
Cc 
iterature   bourse 
Appropriate  visual  aids  can  be  of  great  assistance  to  a  class  leader.  If  wisely  used, 
they  can  enrich  the  lesson  material  by  adding  interest,  strengthening  a  point,  and 
clarifying  an  idea.  They  also  can  be  used  effectively  in  introducing  or  concluding  a 
lesson. 
A  picture  kit  of  carefully  planned  visual  aids  for  the  1961-62  literature  lessons  may 
be  obtained  after  September  1,  from  the  Audio-Visual  Aids  Department,  Brigham 
Young  University,  Provo,  Utah,  price  $3.85  (not  obtainable  from  Relief  Society  Gen- 
eral Board). 
This  packet  contains  an  aid  for  each  lesson  of  the  year: 
1.  Large  portraits  (ii"xi4")  of  Whittier,  Longfellow,  Lowell,  and  Poe. 
2.  Small  oval  portraits  of  these  same  writers  for  the  literature  map. 
3.  Illustration  of  characters  in  Hawthorne's  The  ScaiJett  Letter. 
4.  New  England  winter  landscape  for  Whittier's  ''Snow-Bound." 
5.  Two  outline  maps  to  be  used  with  the  lesson  on  Longfellow. 
6.  A  painting  of  the  home  of  Edgar  Allen  Poe  at  Fordham,  New  York. 
Social  Science — The  Place  of  Woman  in  the 
Gospel  Plan 
THE  EMINENCE  OF  WOMAN 
Lesson  2  —  Full  Equality  in  the  Gospel  Plan 
"Woman  has  been  placed  by  the  side  of  man  —  not  behind  him  —  not  in  front  of 
him"  (Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe). Elder  Ariel  S.  BaUif 
For  Tuesday,  November  28,  1961 
Objective:  To  discover  the  true  significance  of  unity  in  the  marriage  covenant. 
T?ROM  the  review  of  the  scriptures      gave  to  woman  a  place  of  exception- 
in  Lesson  1,  we  have  observed     al  eminence.    The  importance  of  the 
that  in  the  plan  of  creation   God     responsibility    given     her    comple-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
561 
ments  the  assignment  given  to  man. 
Together,  and  only  together,  can  the 
full  realization  of  the  destiny  of  the 
human  family  be  achieved. 
Therefore,  equality  referred  to  in 
the  above  title  has  important  impli- 
cations and  needs  to  be  clearly  de- 
fined. Equality  means  the  charac- 
ter or  condition  of  being  equal. 
Equal  is  defined  as  exactly  the  same 
in  measure,  quantity,  number,  or 
degree.  The  definition  in  Webster's 
dictionary  goes  on  to  say:  "like  in 
value,  quality,  status  or  position; 
evenly  balanced  or  proportioned; 
having  competent  power,  abilities, 
or  means." 
Equal  in  Opportunities, 
Rights,  and  Privileges 
1 .  Man  Is  the  Head  of  the  Family 
by  Priesthood  Designation. 
In  our  previous  discussion  we 
found  that  God  gave  the  Priesthood 
to  Adam,  thus  designating  him  as 
his  mouthpiece  upon  the  earth.  At 
the  same  time,  Adam's  companion. 
Eve,  was  designated  as  the  mother 
of  men.  This  set  up  a  balance  and 
a  division  of  responsibility  which 
provided  a  base  for  sound  family 
organization.  The  Priesthood,  op- 
erating on  the  principles  of  love  and 
sympathetic  understanding,  has  for 
its  purpose  the  caring  for  the  tem- 
poral, intellectual,  and  spiritual  wel- 
fare of  each  member  of  the  familv. 
The  mother,  because  of  her  strategic 
position,  is  the  moving  force  in  the 
accomplishment  of  this  purpose. 
Man  has  held  the  position  of  head 
of  the  family  throughout  the  ages. 
Much  of  the  time  he  has  not  justi- 
fied this  position  in  terms  of  respect, 
consideration,  and  appreciation  for 
his  companion  and  the  children  in 
his  famih .    In  fact,  at  times  he  has 
exercised  unrighteous  dominion  over 
them. 
In  the  gospel  plan  the  Priesthood 
bearer  has  the  responsibility  of  being 
the  head  of  the  family.  The  bless- 
ings and  respect  that  this  position 
merits  can  be  justified  onlv  as  the 
man  honors  his  Priesthood  and  rec- 
ognizes the  value  and  significance  of 
his  co-partner  and  of  each  member 
of  his  family  by  providing  them  with 
full  opportunity  for  growth  and  de- 
velopment. This  is  the  equality  re- 
ferred to;  this  is  the  blessing  of  the 
gospel  plan. 
2.  Woman  Has  a  Major  Role  in 
the  Home. 
In  order  for  the  man  to  realize 
full  promise  of  success  in  his  admin- 
istration of  the  home,  it  is  necessary 
to  place  a  vital  responsibility  in  the 
hands  of  his  wife.  She  plays  a  ma- 
jor role  in  the  home,  having  under 
her  care  and  vigilance  each  member. 
While  babies  are  not  clay  and  can- 
not be  molded  as  such,  yet  they  are 
most  susceptible  to  the  stimulation
