[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: His | Author: Yost]
His Lasting Love Frances C. Yost Y young, newly acquired husband came into the house one midmorning and said, "Trena, get your coat and come with me to an auction out on the Ben Jones farm." "But, Tom," I protested, "we can't afford to buy anything!" "Doesn't cost anything to look. We won't be long." Time was the only thing I had plenty of, as my 'Tom was in the field from early morning until late at night. "Well, I guess I can." I changed to a fresh house dress, combed my hair and put on lipstick. "Better put a scarf on your hair," Tom said, as he helped me into my jacket. I was from the city, and farm life seemed full of the unexpected. As we rode along, 'Tom was whistling "Springtime in the Rockies.'"" Now that I was on my way, I wondered as to the logic of my coming. "Tom, are you sure [ won't be out of place? If it's an auction of farm machinery, it will be just for men." "Everyone will be there. It's a good chance for you to get acquainted." As we neared the Ben Jones farm where the auction was to take place, cars were parked closely on either side of the graveled road. People were milling over the ranch. The men congregated around the machinery to be sold in the barnyard, while the women waited on the erass in front of the little ranch house. The men would gather in clusters Page 514 around a certain piece of machinery and silently speculate on its worth. Few comments were voiced, lest the machinery be skyrocketed in selling. The women near the house paid little attention to the household items to be sold. Some were busy watching toddlers and keeping them out of mischief, while they visited and waited for their men. Tom introduced me to Hannah Higley, the first woman he saw. Then, leaving me with her, he joined the men out by the farm machinery. Hannah Higley's farm joined the Ben Jones place, she told me. We all went into the house and soon she - seated herself in the center of the group on an upturned apple box. What was Hannah saying? "You can see the house is log, couple of rooms is all. Ben Jones built this house more than _ sixty years ago for his bride. Ben was young then, about twenty. Did most of the work of building the house alone. It was a labor of love, you might say; but when it came to chinking up the logs, Mirentha Copley insisted on helping. She was Ben's betrothed. "Pretty as a picture, Mirentha Copley was. But Ben never called her Mirentha. He said it was too long and somehow never suited her. There's her picture. He kept it close to his side all these years. Ben Jones had lovely little nicknames for Mirentha. "Well, those two chinked up this little house together, and Mirentha made the red-checked curtains for HIS LASTING LOVE the kitchen windows, and for the bedroom she crocheted lace ones, mind you. Imagine spending all that time on handmade curtains for an old log house!" ANNAH Higley paused, then continued, "You can see the curtains still hanging at the window if you don't believe me. It's a wonder they still hang together. But, as I was saving, as soon as the house was ready for living, Ben and Mirentha were married, and moved into their home. "T can almost hear them talking over the breakfast table. Mirentha probably said, "Petunias are the lovingest little flowers, Ben. I wish you would build some window boxes and we could plant petunias.' "And he would answer ever so sweetly, "Guess that wouldn't be much trouble, Petty, you tell me how you want them, and Ill make them quick as scat.' " A wave of interest swept through the crowd of women sitting on boxes and chairs. "Well, Ben Jones made those window boxes, and, as you can see, they're still at the windows. Mirentha planted and tended those petunias as if they were her own little children. All the good, leftover water from the house was poured lovingly over the flowers in the window boxes. Those two were as happy as any lovebirds you ever saw. In the summertime the flower boxes were outside, and in the winter those ever-thriving petunias laughed at the cold weather from the inside. Though, of course, I'm too young to have known Mirentha personally, Ben Jones and his bride must have made the cutest couple. 515 But their happiness was not for long. Mirentha developed some sort of sickness and died quite suddenly. "From that day forward something died in Ben Jones. He lived within himself until folks said he was queer, but he lived to a ripe old age. When he died last week, he was past eighty. He had the finest machinery and the finest barns. He had electricity and a radio out in the barn where the cows were, but in the house, till the day he died, he used that coal-oil lamp there with the painted roses on it. "Folks said that if he had married again he would have lived a normal life. Yes, old Ben Jones was strange, all right, there's no doubt about it." Hannah Higley spoke softly. Had listened as attentively as the others to Hannah Higley's storv, and somehow it seemed very sad. Perhaps it was because I was a little new bride myself. I walked into the bedroom. Yes, the lace curtains were hanging at the windows as Hannah had said. Just then the auctioneer shouted, "Ladies and Gentlemen!" I walked outside again. By now the men had gathered in the yard, also. Among the crowd was a smartly dressed couple. I inquired who they were. "Why that's Rutherford Jones and his wife Margo. 'They flew out from the East to dispose of his brother's property, take the proceeds, and return to their home as soon as possible," Hannah said. "Ladies and gentlemen, we will commence the auction with the household goods." He held up a 516 "These are relics, Who will make a biden them? Five. Ten. Twentv-five a dollar... One twenty-five once twice sold to the lady in the pink dress, for a dollar and a quarter." '"That's Florence Roswell,' Hannah whispered to me. "She has a lot of children washing dishes. They won't last long at her place." The auctioneer held up two old patchwork quilts "Do I hear a bid? Two dollars three four Sold to the lady with the red umbrella, for four dollars for the pair!" "That's Freda Bench," Hannah said. "You'll like her. She'll copy the pattern of those quilts and make new ones for the house and use those in the bunkhouse." '"Here's a sewing machine good as new. 'The deceased Mrs. Jones has been dead sixty years, and the machine has never been touched since. Of course it isn't an electric machine, it's a treadle, but in fine condition. 'This machine cost a hundred dollars, probably, when new. I'll let it go for five. Ill let it go for five. Who'll offer me five dollars?" "I will." That timid little voice that had popped up was mine. I needed a sewing machine very much. I didn't mind having a treadle. 'Sold to the pretty lady with the flowered scarf on her head." Everyone was looking at me now, and 'Tom was coming over to where stack of dishes. If not antiques. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-AUGUST 1961 I was. He was digging in his pocket for the five-dollar bill. We had planned to stop at the grocery store on the way home. I probably had a good scolding coming. What would he say to me? "You did all right, Trena." I looked up at Tom, and he was smiling proudly. Someone murmured, "She'll get a lot of good out of that machine when she starts sewing for little ones." I looked about and everyone was smiling approvingly at me. It was as if they were saying they admired my good judgment and thriftiness. I knew, then, that I had made friends with all the farm folks in the valley. There weren't many more household goods. The coal-oil lamp, with the red roses, sold at a rather fancy antique price. <A crocheted tablecloth, yellowed with age, a bed and dresser of solid oak, and a big wardrobe were all disposed of. Then the auctioneer motioned for the crowd to follow him to the barnvard, where the fine modern machinery would be auctioned. I took Tom's arm and _ trailed along with them. If I was going to be a farmer's wife, I should learn all I could about machinery. But my mind was on Ben Jones, the owner of the farm. He had set such a fine example for all of us, with his lasting love. Mlaking Good Shings ast Lydia H. Fielding HEN I was a small child, store candy was a real treat. We children would anxiously await mother's return from her infrequent trips into town. We would rush out to the buggy and help carry the purchases into the house, peering cautiously for a certain little brown paper sack, but not until mother had removed her wraps and unpinned her hat did she bring forth from some mysterious corner the object for which we had been watching. From it she took nice, long sticks of red and white striped peppermint candy or brownish sticks of hoarhound, or sometimes red, cloveflavored sticks. She gave us each one with the admonition, "Now don't eat it up ina hurry, and make it last, for, remember, when it is gone there will be no more." Splendid advice! But, oh, it tasted so good that sometimes one of us would forget and eat ours hurriedly. 'Then we would enviously watch the others as they slowly nibbled or sucked theirs down to the last delicious morsel.