[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: [Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Unknown | Title: V48_08_00_CONTENTS]]
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST   1961 
condemned  before  the  throne  of  God 
{Chinch  History  and  Modern  Revelation, 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  Quorum  Study 
for  the  year  1947,  Vol.  I,  pp.  209-210). 
Relative  to  the  health  of  the 
''Shakers/'  a  book  published  in  1859 
is  quoted  by  an  encyclopedia  as  say- 
ing that  they  abstained  from  alco- 
holic liquors  and  tobacco,  and  that 
their  diet  did  not  include  flesh-meat 
or  fish  (Encyclopedia  Americana, 
(1957  ed,  \'ol.  24,  page  642). 
The  Lord  revealed  that  meat  is 
good  for  man,  and  he  that  forbids 
to  abstain  from  meats  is  not  of  God. 
(See  D  &  C  49:  18-19.) 
In  a  later  revelation,  it  is  made 
known  that  meat  is  to  be  used  spar- 
ingly.    (See  Ibid.,  89:12-13.) 
Although  the  Lord  has  provided 
the  beasts  of  the  field  and  the  fowls 
of  the  air  and  grains  for  the  use  of 
man  (see  Section  49:20),  it  is  sinful 
for  man  to  kill  animals  for  the  sake 
of  killing:  ''And  wo  be  unto  man 
that  sheddeth  blood  or  that  wasteth 
flesh  and  hath  no  need''  (Section 
49:21).  A  wise  comment  is  found 
on  this  passage  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  Commentary.  (Read 
page  286.) 
It  is  a  grievous  sin  in  the  sight  of  God 
to  kill  merely  for  sport.  Such  a  thing 
shows  a  weakness  in  the  spiritual  character 
of  the  individual.  We  cannot  restore  life 
when  it  is  taken,  and  all  creatures  have 
the  right  to  enjoy  life  and  happiness  on 
the  earth  where  the  Lord  has  placed  them. 
Only  for  food,  and  then  sparingly,  should 
flesh  be  eaten,  for  all  life  is  from  God  and 
is  eternal  (Church  History  and  Modern 
Revelation,  Vol.  I,  page  210). 
Two  Prophecies 
In  order  that  the  ''Shaking  Quak- 
ers" might  know  what  would  occur 
on  this  continent  before  the  Lord's 
second  coming,  these  two  prophecies 
were  given: 
But  before  the  great  day  of  the  Lord 
shall  come,  Jacob  shall  flourish  in  the  wil- 
derness, and  the  Lamanites  shall  blossom 
as  the  rose.  Zion  shall  flourish  upon  the 
hills  and  rejoice  upon  the  mountains,  and 
shall  be  assembled  together  in  the  place 
which  I  have  appointed  (D  &  C  49:24-25). 
Do  these  two  predictions  have 
value  beyond  their  application  to  the 
"Shakers"?  Decidedly  so;  for  these 
prophecies  demonstrate  the  pro- 
phetic powers  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  (See  D  &  C  Commentary, 
page  287.) 
Prophecies  Fulfilled 
Concerning  the  Indians  flourish- 
ing and  blossoming  as  the  rose,  we 
learn  that  by  1955,  it  was  estimated 
that  the  number  of  Indians  in 
North  America  was  several  times 
greater  than  in  1907.  It  should  also 
be  of  interest  to  learn  that  the  num- 
ber of  Indians  living  within  the  pres- 
ent confines  of  the  United  States  at 
the  beginning  of  the  15th  century 
is  estimated  at  400,000.  Because  of 
disease  and  displacement  this  num- 
ber was  greatly  decreased  until  the 
Indian  was  called  the  "Vanishing 
American."  Since  1920,  however, 
the  Indians  have  increased  in  num- 
ber until,  today,  there  are  more  than 
it  is  estimated  existed  at  the  time 
of  the  discovery  of  America. 
Rocky  iVfountain  Prophecy 
As  early  as  1830  the  Lord  indi- 
cated in  a  revelation  that  "Zion  shall 
rejoice  upon  the  hills  and  flourish" 
(D  &  C  35:24).  This  prediction  is 
another  reference  to  the  saints  re- 
siding in  the  Rocky  Mountains. 
"And  this  was  at  a  time  when  the 
Rocky  Mountain  region  was  almost 
unknown  to  the  people  in  the  East- 
ern States"  (Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants Commentary,  page  i8g).

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
551 
Ten  years  passed  away  and  the 
Lord  inspired  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  to  speak  more  clearly  about 
the  future  of  the  saints  ''upon  the 
hills"  and  of  their  rejoicing  ''upon 
the  mountains."  On  August  6, 
1842,  Joseph  Smith  wrote: 
I  prophesied  that  the  Saints  would  con- 
tinue to  suffer  much  affHction  and  would 
be  driven  to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  many 
would  apostatize,  others  would  be  put  to 
death  by  our  persecutors  or  lose  their  lives 
in  consequence  of  exposure  or  disease,  and 
some  of  you  will  live  to  go  and  assist  in