[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V48_08_00_Misc]
AUGUST 1961 32 I esoft: tar Movember i Oe (B rie f Gn terum Alberta H. Christensen There is no tumult now, for summer falls On lane and meadow like a muted song.

Only a brief surrendering to peace— To flowering stem, to cadences of sound, Soft as a chanting bee, clear as the cry Of a startled quail in the myrtle leaves.

Only a sense of oneness with the earth — With trellised vine, the daisy-whitened hill; With transient shadow-lace where beauty weaves A web of dream in grasses warm with sun.

Only a new awareness of the sky, Its nimbus cloud repeated in the stream.

Brief interim, serene and blossom-frail, Mantle with petals every scar of grief; Be the heart's wanted rest, its weld of faith Against the winter night — the orphaned leaf. The Cover: Provo River, Utah, With Mount Timpanogos in the Background Color Transparency by Hal Rumel Frontispiece: Summertime in Vermont Photograph by Eva Luoma Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and far The Relief Society Magazine is wonderful. I truly love to read every word in it.

Everything gives me uplifting thoughts, whether it be spiritual, through the wonderful lessons, stories, and poems, or the practical advice on everyday living. I very much enjoyed the "International Singing Mothers Concert Tour' (by President Belle S. Spafford, in May). The Magazine speaks to the mothers in the Lord's Church and helps them in their special duties. And what does it mean for me, a young girl? It strengthens my testimony that the Relief Society is truly an inspired organization that helps me to keep my thoughts clean and influences my daily actions for the better. —Hildegard Teuscher Hamburg, Germany We here in our branch and district treasure the knowledge we have of the gospel, but are ever eager to learn more from day to day. Personally, I find The Relief Society Magazine a treasure chest of delightful reading. 'The lessons given through the medium of the Magazine are a sheer joy. I am a registered nurse still practicing my profession. Nevertheless, I do think the nursing course as given in the Magazine (1960-61) is excellent.

What a wealth of information these lessons contain for every housewife and mother — and father, too, for I know several fathers who read The Relief Society Magazine with extreme interest. —Frances A. Katene Porirua, New Zealand For quite awhile I have been receiving copies of The Relief Society Magazine from my dear friend Mrs. F.

Flicks of Raymond, Alberta, Canada. I have been very interested in these Magazines, especially in the poetry. I can assure you I have found comfort in the readings, as I live alone, and the different messages seem to have been particularly sent to me to give me courage to carry on.

These messages travel far. —Mrs. S. A. Thornton Salford Lancaster, England Page 498 I would like a subscription to our wonderful Magazine entered in the name of my daughter Mrs. Marcia White. She is celebrating her first wedding anniversary this month, and I can't think of anything finer to give her than a subscription to the Magazine. My own dear mother gave me my first subscription twenty-three years ago, the first year I was married. I would like to make it a family tradition. I especially enjoy the lovely covers in color, and I always read the poetry first. I enjoyed the frontispiece poem in the April issue "Too Swift the Curve," by Eva Willes Wangsgaard. It is delightful. —RMrs. MaDonna N. Lemon Roosevelt, Utah During a grief and pain-filled period three years ago, a very dear friend Mrs. Arthur Martin of Salina, Utah, started sending me The Relief Society Magazine. It was very new and strange to me. At first, the little stories and beautiful cover designs attracted my interest — then the recipes and sewing sections.

Each time I picked up the Magazine I found new and varied things of interest. I began reading the lessons, trying to understand them, but, without a reference book to use as a guide, I was a bit lost. Finally, the past summer, two elders from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints came to my door. I obtained The Book of Mormon.

Since then the lessons in the Magazine have become more clanfied. I have read The Book of Mormon from cover to cover and am still enjoying The Relief Society Magazine. —RMrs. Wallace Jaka Ottawa, Illinois Our ward has a wonderful mother, Mrs. Frances Kolarik. She doesn't know me very well, and yet she has given me a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine as a gift for two years. Now this little Magazine gives me uplift and comfort in my spiritual life. It also gives me faith in the future and in the spirit of our home. —Terttu Voskressensky Los Angeles, California

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hl blicati f the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints "<a S d

VOL. 48 AUGUST 1961 NO. 8 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1961 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of - Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Editorial and Business Offices: 76

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (2 segments, 14,471 chars) ===

But you have gained nothing and lost valuable time, if the plant turns out to be Page 522 I Se are a triple asset Plotting Your Prrennials Eva Willes Wangsgaard so ordinary that you will replace it soon with a rarer variety. Most plants are sold and catalogued by individual names. Peonies It doesn't pay to plant a peony listed less than "g" quality. Among my favorites are: LaCygne (French for '""The Swan'') which, as its name implies, is a pure white, very firm and plump, with a faint aura of yellow at the heart when first open; Teresa is a pale pink equally firm and full, and Mons. Jules Elie and Solange are very satisfactory in the pink and white varieties However, there are some lovely red peonies and some gorgeous single-blooming varieties which make excellent cut flowers and showy garden plants Trises The varieties of irises are legion and new hybrids appear every year. If you wish to have the latest thing in irises, you pay high prices for new PLOTTING YOUR PERENNIALS varieties But some of the earlier hybrids are so beautiful that I doubt if any others will ever excel them in any way but in novelty. For instance, the Mohr family hybrids — the "incomparable" EI Mohr, a rose-violet bloom, very ruffled, grows on tall, firm stems; Wiliam Mohr, a paler flower, stands and falls ruffled lavender, with dark veinings, slender, but firm, stems and daintier, narrower foliage; Ohr Mohr, is similar to El] Mohr, but dark purple in hue; Lady Mohr is beige; Grace Mohr is pink and less large and ruffled. 'Then there are the superb white varieties like Snow Flurry and Iceland. 'The golden ones ate exquisite, California Gold, a prolific bloomer, Treasure Island, with a tongue of ivory running down the middle of each fall, and others equally attractive. Delphiniums and Primroses Delphiniums and primroses may be planted successfully in autumn, but in heavy, cold soils, spring planting is preferable. Delphiniums are immensely tall plants, with long racemes of bloom, — and so must be planned for backrow planting. Primroses are bedding and border plants, and the short, heavy-leafed varieties require much Shade and plenty of water. They multiply rapidly and can be tedivided almost every spring. Young seedlings of delphiniums and primroses are recommended because it takes a year or two for older clumps to get adjusted, and in the meantime blooms are _ inferior. Young seedlings will produce show specimens the first season under favorable circumstances and_ will 523 continue blooming grandly for several years. However, I have found both of these species to be susceptible to both red spiders and fungi. So I recommend a close watch and spraying at the first sign of yellowing, wilting, or dehydration. Oriental Poppies Oriental poppies may be planted in the autumn. These are obtainable in white, pink, salmon pink, flag red, raspberry red, and Ming orange. 'They are very deep rooters and seldom transplant well unless bought well-started in containers. They cannot be dug and divided as most perennials are handled. They are bought through a nurseryman or a catalogue and come to you as small sections of root. 'They may be grown successfully from _ seeds which are purchased from the same sources, but are, of course, a year later in producing. Don Knight SCROLL BORDERED IRIS 524 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1961 TULIP GARDEN Bulbs Autumn is the time for bulbs — tulips in infinite variety, hyacinths, daffodils, mnarcissi, squills, snowdrops, crocuses, and all our old friends. But here are some rarer plantings you may enjoy. Anemones—There are many different kinds of anemones varying greatly in appearance from the early spring, ground-hugging species, with their delicate rayed flowers, to the large-lowered florist types and the tall-blooming Japanese windflower. You will find these in bulb dealers' or perennial specialists' lists. A. Blanda astrocoerules (ingrami) is the deepest blue form of this dainty, yet beautifully hardy, Grecian windflower which blooms in early spring when the first warmth of March or April sun caresses the ground above the bulbs. Small starry flowers, each made up of many rays of daisy-like petals, appear in quantity above the low, thricecut and pointed-leafed foliage which forms a lovely background for the brilliant blossoms which last for weeks. In early autumn set the tiny, fat, bulbous tubers two inches deep in humus-filled, yet gritty soil, in a choice section of the rock garden or border, where they will receive light shade in summer but plenty of sun in spring to open up the flowers. Larger, later, and more showy anemones may be planted deep, six to eight inches apart, in sunny bor- PLOTTING YOUR PERENNIALS will need winter These reders, but they mulch for protection. Semble poppies in bloom. Chionodoxa _ (glorv-of-the-snow ) bloom in great sheets of blue just as the snow is melting away. They are native to Asia Minor and so are quite hardy. A few hundred will give a good start, as they seed themselves readily, increase also from offshoots, choosing their own favorite spots and spreading rapidly. Set the small, pear-shaped bulbs _ three inches deep and one inch apart for early effectiveness, lovely "patches of sky." C. Luciliae is the usual form, with six to twelve flowers to a stem, four inches tall, with three or four broadly linear leaves appearing at the same time. There is a white form and a pink one and a slightly earlier blooming type, C. Sardensis, with somewhat smaller, true gentian-blue flowers and a verv small, scarcely noticeable. White center. Don Knight POETICA NARCISSUS 525 Don Knight YELLOW NARCISSUS Eranthis (winter aconites) will often pop their little golden, globular buds out of the ground before the snow is all gone, in February, or earlier in some sections and some seasons. If it turns cold again, they just seem to stand still until the next warm sunny day urges them forward. Even in very cold sections they will be up by mid-March, usually the earliest of the spring seekers. They team well with snowdrops. Actually, these relatives of the buttercups are perennials, with tuberous roots which put them in the bulbous category. 'They resent being out of the ground any length of time, so order early and plant them promptly on arrival. If the shriveled looking tiny tubers seem drv, cover them with moist sand or peat moss overnight to help them plump up, then plant them immediately. Set them two inches to three inches deep, three to four inches apart, in colonies, in loose, 526 friable soil containing some leaf mold to keep it slightly moist and cool. [NX plotting your perennials: First —be aware of quality as mentioned above, second — be aware of color. Great orange poppies blooming beside rose-colored peonies detract from rather than add to the effect. On the other hand, regal lilies, purple clematis, and great white fringed Shasta daisies bloom simultaneously. Planted in such a way as to have the lilies bank the clematis on a fence, and the great white daisies repeating the white below, the arrangement is a soul-uplifting sight. In a garden where perennial phlox, with their pastel loveliness of color, are the keynote, harsh reds and yellows are out of place. Pale ivory daisies, with marguerite-like foliage, minarda, with pastel maroons and purples, and lythrum, with its rich pinks, are lovely additions. And the many Shasta daisies in their purity of white are always good. My phlox are planted between RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 196] two rows of peomies, and so add their color to the rich green of the foliage. They make enduring neighbors, since phlox want their roots shaded and peonies require plenty of sun. Third — be aware of balance. Tall-growing, tall-blooming plants in the background, followed by medium talls, and fronted with low-growing, generous blooming petunias for ground cover make satisfactory borders. Then watch for symmetry from side to side. Fourth—be aware of pattern. Plan your garden first roughly on graph paper, with a center of interest, simplicity of pattern, and avoid the clutter of extra circles and cut-outs. A few varieties well-planned produce a better effect than too much and too many. Be sure to leave unplanted and ready, the spaces where perennials needing spring planting can be placed quickly and easily, and you will need onlv to weed, water, and enjoy the rest of the season. The weeding is negligible if you uproot weeds consistently as soon as they appear. 'That way there is never any multiplication. > A Glimpse of Grace Ethel Jacobson Child, there is a world of wonder In your eyes, Of magic and of merriment, And grave surprise. Fathomless as the blue of calm And sunlit seas, Limpid as the arching heaven's Immensities. All the world's ills might heal with no more Than the grace Radiant in your gaze, and blossoming In your face.

---

Ist South 1 Salt Lake City 11, Utah ' { ' Please send the music indicated above. I [J] On Approval [] Charge L] Money Enclosed \ Salt Lake City 11, Utah BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY (Including Mt. Rushmore) Leaves August 19, 1961 See the Colossal Sculpture carved from solid granite of the heads of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln, and $98.50 LABOR DAY TOUR — Sept. 2-Sept. 4. Includes Zions, Bryce, Grand Canyon, $32.75 HAWAIIAN TOUR in September. Theodore Roosevelt. And Glen Canyon Dam. HAWAIIAN TOUR in October. ROSE PARADE TOUR in December. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles - ~2..0 20 35 150 to 300 miles — 0002 39 300 to 600 miles —- 0 00000000000 45 P] 600 to 1000 miles.54 1000 to 1400 miles 00000.64 1400 to 1800 miles 0 0.0.0000000002.. 76 Over 1800 miles _ 00.02000..87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 566 Hollyhock Dolls Christie Lund Coles She came to the door just now, Wide-eyed and eager; fair As only a little girl Can ever be; her hair Color of sun, her eyes Part of the flower-blue sky; Her voice, tremulous, asking, "Would you care... Care to buy A hollyhock doll I made?" With reminiscent ache, I saw the ruffled dress, Like a doll I used to make. I reached for the clothespin stem. Beneath the pollened flower, I saw myself a child, and more, My daughter in a summer hour. "Yes, yes. I will buy the doll." She saw my tears, not guessing, I Had been given more this summer day Than a dozen coins could buy. First Formal Rose Thomas Graham In silk as soft as owl wings, This maiden, debonair, Is waiting the approval Of her dress, her shoes, her hair. Grandpa beholds an angel, Dad, a grown up lady doll. "Just a baby," mother whispers, As the bell rings down the hall, Jack sees the fairy princess He is taking to the ball. anaes Are the Uses of Adversity Caroline Eyring Miner I picked the last of the raspberries today, the last stragglers. 'They were slower than the others to ripen, but they didn't give up the good fight. 'They completed their task. These strays are riper and sweeter than the average; quality is often a result of struggle. While weeding the garden, I noticed that weeds that have been broken off, thicken and become hardier than ever. I was disgusted for they had to be cut off again, but they were really making the best of a bad deal for them. With great difficulty, this year, I climbed Mount Timpanogos with the annual hikers. I was older and heavier than most, but, accepting my limitations, I made it to the top. Along the way I stopped frequently, but the rests gave me opportunity to enjoy the sights — the blue and pink flowers growing together and lining the blue stream of glacier water flowing down the canyon, the fading of the light, the gradual flushing of the eastern sky as the sun came up. I'm sure no one enjoyed more frequent drinks of good cold water dropping from the ledges in cascades along the way. I took some wonderful slides of columbines and wild roses that will delight me when I can no longer make it along the trail. Mlorning Hour Evelyn Fjeldsted If we journeyed afar, Where could we find The ineffable peace That so gently can bind Life's injuries all, As the still morning hour, When hope is again, A light in its tower? AMERICA'S LITERATURE COMES OF AGE RELIEF SOCIETY LITERATURE PAC FOR 1961-62 AVAILABLE SEPTEMBER 1, 1961 AT Dept. Of Audio-Visual Communication B. Y. U., Provo and Deseret Book Store $3.85 44E. S. Temple postpaid S. U. LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 I to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by pro- I fessional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. I! LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Sait Lake City 11, Utah Page 567 TOURS FOR 1961 SEPTEMBER—Europe OCTOBER—Aloha Week (Hawaii) ee, z DECEMBER—Rose Parade Tour JANUARY—Around the World Cruise MARGARET LUND TRAVEL SERVICE 72 East 4th South (Moxum Hotel Lobby) Box 2065 Salt Lake City 11, Utah DA 2-5559 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Sranquility Marilyn Young 'When in my solitude I find The battle is hard fought To oust from this finite mind All earthly thoughts with worry fraught, I turn to God with hopeful heart And, oh, what tranquility fills my breast As hurts and failures cease to smart And I am given peace and rest. Such peace as I am able to attain With my own feeble stumblings here, I would not, could not claim Without his helping hand forever near. He lifts me from the abysmal depth To a place in this life's lease Where loving and giving are my breath, And at last within me flows eternal peace. Page 568 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Two Mrs. Lizzie DELL MERRILL Henniker, New Hampshire One Hundred Mus. GEORGIENNE GODDARD WALTERS Big Lake, Minnesota Mrs. Frances WoopMANSEE EDWARDS Salt Lake City, Utah

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (1 segments, 2,041 chars) ===

--- Ad from: Birthday Congratulations ---
$2.00 SEGO LILY JEWELRY: Necklaces Heavy chain, gold - filled with double gold - filled pendant. $9.75 Light chain, gold - filled with double gold - filled pendant. '$6.00 Bracelet Gold - filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Double gold-filled. $5.00 Gold-filled. $3.75 SMALL RELIEF SOCIETY EMBLEM PIN (12 kt. Gold). $1.75 SOUVENIR RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PLATE: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 All prices include federal tax. MN he a a I I I I I I DS SS I DD MENA ANAN GAN LNAG Ha TN Ag aga Naga ga gag lag lag laa ly lay lag lan lan lalla Nagy = a — FEB 62 GENEALOGICAL ATLAS OF ENGLAND & WALES Smith, Gardner and Harland A compilation of original maps of England and Wales that gives a wealth of information to genealogical workers. These were originally printed in London over a hundred years ago and have been out of print so long they are unobtainable elsewhere. These maps give names of cities, parishes, townships, county boundaries, hamlets, railroads, highways, canals, etc. "BRIGHAM YOUNG ' 9 AT HOME Clarissa Young Spencer and Mabel Harmer This LDS classic, now in a new edition, recalls the. Days when President Young's home was teeming with family life and when world-famous guests were entertained in the grand parlors. Informative, entertaining, written in easy-to-read story form, it includes many fascinating photographs. The recent restoration of the famous BEEHIVE HOUSE makes this book exce@dingly timely. Sd SAE OE SESE ca 68 Re rere ae (2.95 44 East South Temple "Salt Lake City, Utah Orn. F @oeeee0. V es mie e@eeeeeneenee 8 e@ * i as - Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah § r: @ Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ~.: check - money order I have an account. Please — Amount enclosed: $ ooo. Ees for encircled (numbered) books:. 2 Nemec cece cece ences cence ene eeeeeene nag aeeeenEE: on > =o nn CE a eeZone -Stelel 02ce Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax.