[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Clinch]
[The Glory of Light Fredrika Clinch]

Page 517 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1901 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NaTIONs" PRESIDENT SNOW'S ADDRESS TO RELIEF SOCIETY (given at Saltair, July 9, 1901); I will venture to say that the best wives and mothers and the most efficient housekeepers among us are members of the Relief Society, and I would advise the brethren to encourage their wives to join the society... For it would be a good thing to have the influence of this organization in every home. I ask you, my sisters, in your visits to the homes of the Latter-day Saints to carry this influence wherever you go. The Lord has clearly shown to you the nature of your relationship to Him and what is expected of you as wives and mothers. Teach these things to those whom you visit, especially to the young ladies.... —President. Lorenzo Snow KANSAS RELIEF SOCIETY: Thursday, June 13, 1901... The sisters of the Kansas City branch and Sister Levinia Preator, of Independence, Mo., met according to appointment by the mission presidency to organize a Relief Society.... President James G. Duffin spoke at length on the object of the meeting and briefly referred to the history of this important and beneficial organization. A number of the sisters present expressed themselves as being heartily in sympathy with the movement. Of seeing a branch of the society in this section of the Lord's vineyard prosper and flourish. Sister Estella A. Milligan... Was appointed as president... With Sister Kate Brown... And Louisa Preator as first and second counselors. —KF stella Milligan A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY: Tuesday, July 30, 1901, a very pleasant lawn party was given on the beautiful grounds at the Cannon farm, by Gen. John Q. Cannon and wife for their daughter Louise, to about forty or fifty of her young friends. The place was prettily decorated in honor of the festive occasion, and Chinese lanterns hung from the balcony in the vines and among the trees gave the place a gala appearance... How beautiful is youth, how bright it gleams With its illusions, aspirations, dreams, Book of beginning, story without end, Each maid a heroine and each man a friend. —HEditorial THOUGHTS ON MISSIONARY WORK: President Lyman, late of the European Mission, has in all soberness declared "that the lady missionary is no longer an experiment, but an unqualified success." In the early dawn of the twentieth century this fact has been demonstrated to the world. What will the future unfold?. Broad avenues, today unexplored, will open for her earnest efforts to teach the principles of purity and truth. The new century, ablaze with light for all the world, will see her crowned, seated on the throne secured by her long devotion... By intellectual development, and heart and soul expansion. —Lydia D. Alder PRESIDENT ZINA D. H. YOUNG: In a letter recently received from Canada we learn of the good health and enjoyment of our beloved President, Sister Zina D. H. Young, who is visiting there with her daughter and family, and we are sure all the Saints everywhere... Wish her strength and vigor... To accomplish all her heart desires in the great mission to which she has been called and set apart. —News Note Page 518 JACQUELIN E BOUVIER KENNEDY accompanied her husband, President John F. Kennedy, on his diplomatic missions to confer with heads of state in Canada, Paris, and Vienna. Mark Drouin, Canadian Senate Speaker, said of Mrs. Kennedy, "... Her charm, beauty, vivacity, and grace of mind have captured our hearts." Her reception in France, in England, and in Vienna was equally enthusiastic. Drienne: the Life of the Marquise de La Fayette, by Andre Maurois (McGraw-Hill, New York) narrates many events not previously known in the life of this courageous woman who risked her life and endured many years of imprisonment for the sake of her husband, whose life was many times threatened during the French Revolution. Adrienne is described as a woman whose "flexibility and_ resilience, whose intelligence, tact, and unselfish commonsense made her 'the last resort' of her family." UGUSTA STEVENSON has written a delightful story of the life of Abraham Lincoln's mother titled Nancy Hanks, Kentucky Girl, published by Bobbs-Merrill, New York. Dying at thirty-five, when Abe was nine, she was thereafter known as "the Madonna of the backwoods."