The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Lovely IMPE RIAL Wallpapers
Hundreds of exciting and colorful patterns are displayed in our beautiful remodeled store.
The booths are a veritable art gallery of color harmonies.
IMPERIAL Washable Wallpapers are sold at prices to please all.
Ask for free copy of lovely booklet: "ROMANCE OF MODERN DECORATION."
SALT LAKE GLASS & PAINT COMPANY
Home of LOWE BROTHERS and PRATT and LAMBERT Paints
Complete Suits for Men and Women—Children's Clothing a Specialty
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders
Temple and Burial Clothes
Variety of Grades and Prices
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Open Daily—9 a. M. To 5 p. M.
Salt Lake City, Utah
Mon I be Decowed!
Our Charges Are According to Your Desires
Lindquist Sons Carlquist Co.
FUNERAL DIRECTORS
2128 So. State Salt Lake Phone Hy. 1572
LINDQUIST & SONS Ogden
2620 Wash. Blvd. Phone 520
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
33-35 East on First South St.
'Telephone Wasatch 3286
Salt Lake City
29 Bishop's Building
Tested and Guaranteed
You'll find the best in meats, fresh fruits, vegetables and groceries in O. P. S. Stores.
Every '"food'' has been selected with more than ordinary care.
Our stores are food headquarters for hundreds of thrifty and satisfied housewives.
To those who are not familiar with our stores, we invite
r@) p SKAGGS
000 Pr sores
"A Surety of Purity"
BOOKS —for young and old
If you have children in your home, you will be delighted at our wide selection of really good books for young people.
Of course—we also have the largest stock of books in the Intermountain Region for grown-ups.
New and Standard Editions Reference Books, Fiction, Church Publications, and a_ thousand and one items for home, school, office or classroom.
DESERET BOOK COMPANY
44 East South Temple
Salt Lake City, Utah
Specially Selected RELIEF SOCIETY MUSIC
Send for Sample Copies
O Bread of Life
In The Time of Roses
O Morn of Beauty
The Lord's Prayer
Annie Laurie
By The Bend of The River
Sanctus
Dedication
and many others
Largest stock of Sheet Music and Musicians' supplies in the Intermountain West
Daynes Music Co.
Successors to Consolidated Music Company and Daynes-Beebe Music Company
47 South Main St.
Salt Lake City, Utah
"FOUR WAYS BETTER"
BE SURE YOU RECEIVE THE ONE AND ONLY GENUINE
UTAH
"SPRING CANYON COAL
1—Starts Quicker. 2—Burns Longer. 3—Less Soot. 4—Less Ash
"*"ASK YOUR DEALER''
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
you to visit us soon.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vout. XXV MAY, 1938 No. 5
CONTENTS
Tribute 289
Counselor Kate M. Barker
Frontispiece (Singing Mothers) 290
Relief Society Singing Mothers 291
President Louise Y. Robison
Singing Mothers 292
Maud Frazer Jackson
Recollections of Rachel Ivins Grant 293
Lucy Grant Cannon
Sylvester Quayle Cannon 299
Julia A. F. Lund
Testament of Motherhood 301
Vesta P. Crawford
Nadia eeDki? 304
Ruth Partridge Richan
Some Thoughts Addressed to the Mothers of Israel 305
Leah D. Widtsoe
The Apple Orchard 308
Grace C. Jacobsen
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd 309
Dorothy Clapp Robinson
My Creed 313
Sarah Maria Davis Thatcher
Spring Messengers 314
Ella J. Coulam
Women and Tithe Paying 315
Donna D. Sorensen
My Little Son 317
Afton Free Baird
The Children's Reading 318
Florence I. Hyde
PUAppPeMIMGS 320
Annie Wells Cannon
Editorials:
Merited Honor 321
Distinguished Visitors 322
Presiding Bishopric 322
Acknowledgment 323
Fee OnSC Ny 323
Mabel L. Gleason
Relief Society Conference 324
Julia A. F. Lund
Relief Society Annual Report 356
Julia A. F. Lund
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 20 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Telephone Wasatch 980
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew' promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
"Everything to Furnish the Home"
THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF
Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture in the Intermountain Territory
400 Suites to Choose From
GRANITE FURNITURE CO.
Out of the High Rent District
The Home of THE ROUND OAK RANGE AND AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHER
Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere
MURRAY SUGAR HOUSE PROVO
PEERLESS LAUNDRY
Complete Laundry Service
Snow White Clothes
All this praise for ny living room|'
INVITATION
makes me very
mt
erything for spring beautifying is attractively displayed.
All that's new and charming in wallpaper designs— paints, enamels, varnishes for every purpose—waxes and cleaners—and no end of decorative suggestions in booklets that are yours for the asking.
\wallpapers.
Jm
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
W. P. FULLER & CO.
Salt Lake and Ogden
PULLER Gey as)
PAINTS
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
1184 East 21st South
happy | chose F U L L E R |
Hyland 2182
The FULLER Paint Dealer in your town invites you to his store... Where ev-
FISHER'S VITAMIN "D" BREAD
Try this superior healthgiving bread, it is your greatest source of food-energy.
Also delicious cakes!
Products of
AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY
Salt Lake City, Utah
The Big Home-Owned Bakery
There is no substitute for quality!
FEEELILELY:
SAVING
New Color
—charming new tints for your home, are ready for you in the
Op
exquisite, exclusive colors of
for all surfaces, inside and outside.
Ask for the FREE large color chips for matching with your drapes, carpets, etc.
At All Bennett Dealers
RENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO.
Salt Lake City
pay fore
A FREEZES WITH NO M
FEW cents a day!
That's all it costs to run a gas refrigerator—the refrigerator that has no moving mechanical parts to wear or become noisy.
Call at our showroom and see the beautiful new models.
MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY
Salt Lake -— Ogden — Provo
Serving 21 Utah Communities
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
MORMON HANDICRAFT
'ADD A TOUCH OF SPRING TO YOUR WARDROBE
A Dainty Handmade Collar or Handmade Gloves
BRIGHTEN THE HOME
A Colorful Rug, Lacy Bedspread or Attractive Table Cover
MORMON HANDICRAFT
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
BUREAU OF INFORMATION TEMPLE SQUARE
You area" Lawful Heir"
(Doctrine & Covenants 86:8-11)
Therefore, Thre isa Vital Message for You in
God's Covenant Race
By JAMES H. ANDERSON
As you study this volume of your racial history you will see clearly WHY Mormonism is the grand climax of 6,000 years of Bible record and promise; that we today live in Bible times and are Bible people in the truest sense.
In this unusual book you have actual, logical facts, to confirm your testimony of the Restoration of the Gospel.
You will have many UNDERSTANDABLE REASONS WHY our church claims Priesthood Leadership, Salvation for the Dead, Patriarchal Blessings, etc., with all that these things imply.
Would you like to gain this enlarged vision of Mormonism?
Would you like actual, new historical proof that God has kept His promises to your fathers and to all the prophets, including Joseph Smith?
Do you realize what it may mean to you both temporally and spiritually to be "of Ephraim'?
FREE EXAMINATION CERTIFICATE
(UT Our a Mier Limited
Good For One Week's Free Inspection of
GOD'S COVENANT RACE
By JAMES H. ANDERSON
With Genealogical Chart—


"THE BEGINNING OF MY PEDIGREE" With the volume you will receive this chart of your pedigree for 2200 years—(24 generations from Adam to Ephraim). It is prepared with dates and references ready to file in your genealogical record. This carefully indexed book shows that modern historical research has proved many items in your genealogy. The author was the first secretary of the Genealogical Society of Utah. He has written about YOUR FAMILY and your birthright. This book and chart will pleasantly surprise you. Send for them now. —©—_———_ Earl W. Harmer, Publisher, ¢/o Deseret News Press, 29 Richards St., Salt Lake City, Utah Date I should like to examine the book and chart described above. You may send them with all carriage charges prepaid. After a week 1 will either return them and owe you nothing or keep them and send $1.75, in full payment. P. S. YOUR FRIEND OWNS A COPY. ASK ABOUT IT. If payment in full, $1.75, is sent now, with this certificate, I will send an extra copy of the chart. Immediate refund if not more than pleased. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Name Address City State "Sing unto God ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord." Praises unto the Lord were sung at the Relief Society Conference by the Singing Mothers, mothers in Israel whose lives of sacrifice and devotion had given them such understanding and appreciation of life that they "sang with grace in their hearts to the Lord." Our Conference was glorified by this service. As the chorus arose, every singer alert and serious, competent and eager, a hush fell over the vast audience and as the song came forth there were tears in the eyes of the listeners; there was a response deeper than the mind, it was the response of the soul. We worshiped with them. That longing in our souls, which comes when life means most, to express ourselves in loftier terms, was satisfied as we felt with them, "None else can deliver us." It was not only a musical occasion, it was also a spiritual experience. The memory of it will illuminate our daily lives. What it must mean to carry in one's mind and heart every phrase of that almost divine music! Relief Society Singing Mothers, in the name of the great organization to which you belong, we salute you. The organization is greater today because of your service. A new height of achievement has been attained by you in Relief Society music which more than any other art has a transforming power that takes one into a higher realm of living. You spiritualized your service. As you have enriched us may you likewise be enriched beyond measure. e i py errno ty ere = ea AG SR, Sepa TH E AUGMENTED CHORUS OF RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS—APRIL CONFERENCE The (Relief SocietY Magazine Vout. XXV MAY, 1938 No. 5 Relief Society Singing Mothers By President Louise Y. Robison KSL Radio Address, Sunday, April 3, 1938 HE Relief Society Singing Mothers who so gloriously express praise to our Father in song, are sustained by the same power which Moses had when he sang "The Lord is my strength and my song." Surely the Lord has given strength and song to the nine hundred women who have come from their homes in ten of the Western States, and have blessed multitudes with their beautiful singing during the past four days. Were it not for the strength of the Lord which has sustained these mothers, they never could have accomplished what they have. Many have traveled long distances for rehearsals —some report as much as eighty miles twice a week. One singer who missed the group with whom she was to have traveled came to Salt Lake City by airplane. Tonight we wish to dedicate this program to the great group of Singing Mothers, to the Stake Officers of Relief Society for their support, to the Ward and Stake Choristers who have trained the voices so beautifully, that although practicing in wards located many hundreds of miles from each other, have developed a tone quality which is superb. To sing the seven new selections without copy added greatly to the enjoyment of the rendition. It is a very great pleasure to pay tribute to the families and friends who have cooperated in this stupendous undertaking. We especially appreciate the husbands and children for the sacrifice which is always made when mothers leave the home. Can you visualize the preparation which was necessary to leave three thousand five hundred children at home, and the joy which will come to these sons and daughters through the beautiful service given by their mothers? This service and all effort made pays because it has accomplished development, which is the supreme end of life. We remember, too, the friends who have assisted, one of whom said, "I cannot sing, but I shall be happy to make the blouses to be worn, and in this way help in bearing the expense of the trip." Relief Society Singing Mothers, Choristers, Husbands and Children, we salute you! You have made history for our Society! Nor would this tribute be complete without mentioning the enthusiastic, talented chief conductor, Charlotte O. Sackett, and the 292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pianist, Alta Burton Cassity, who so. Efficiently supported Sister Sackett. Every member of the chorus will carry home a delightful memory of the contact made with Professor Frank Asper, who has been tireless in his effort to make each selection a success. Our earnest desire is that you will carry the high standard you have attained into your Wards, Stakes and Missions, ever remembering that your strength is in the nobility of your work, the worthiness of your purpose. These will give power of patience and assurance of victory. The people of the world need song, the kind that will bring peace and establish friendliness. The creation was not complete until there was music — it is necessary today. The following verse is from an author unknown to me: "When the earth was finished and fashioned well There was never a musical note to tell How glad God was, save the voice of the rain,. The sea and the wind o'er the lonely plain, And the rivers among the hills. And so God made the wondrous birds, For a choir of joy transcending words, That the world might know and understand That music and harmony can mend -the spirit's hurts and ills." There can be no higher mission than to bring peace and harmony into the world, then all hearts will join in the great chorus, "How Lovely are the Messengers." > a atl SINGING MOTHERS By Maud Frazer Jackson To all heroic souls high praise, All those who serve their brothers; But when the great you crown with bays Forget not Singing Mothers; The kind, the patient mothers Whose hours of toil are long; Who trust in God though dark the skies, Keep smiling in their children's eyes And sing a cheery song. No organ in cathedral vast, No trained and vested choir, When doubt my soul has overcast, Can faith anew inspire Like mother's tender singing That banished childhood's tears. ° Sweet echoes from the golden shore Sound in my heart forevermore, The Music of the Spheres. Unlettered in theology And isms, this, the other, Undoubted is God's Word by me— I had a singing mother; Who came through tribulations With heart still brave and strong; Who proved to me from day to day That help is given when we pray And Faith fills life with song. —Selected. Recollections of Rachel Ivins Grant By Lucy Grant Cannon HE knowledge of a well spent life is a priceless heritage. Such a life is our inheritance who are of the lineage of Rachel Ivins Grant. Hers was a life given to willing and loving service to her child, her Church, and her people. Through her unselfish service she developed a character which was as nearly perfect as one attains in mortality. She was indeed a true Latter-day Saint. The following is Grandmother's own account of her conversion to the Church, dictated shortly before her death, January 1909, when she was. Over eighty years old: ' Y parents died when I was quite young. My grandparents on both sides were Quakers, consequently I was brought up under that influence. But the silent worship of the 'Friends' did not satisfy the cravings of my soul. I longed to hear the beautiful hymns that my mother had taught to her little children even in our tender years, and the spirit often moved me to burst out in songs of praise, and it was with difficulty I could refrain from doing so. "At the age of sixteen years, with the consent of my relatives, I joined the Baptist church. The singing pleased me and the prayers were somewhat inspiring, but the sermons were not much more satisfactory than the none-at-all of the Quakers. I was religiously inclined but not of the long-faced variety. I thought religion ought to make people happier, and that was the kind of religion I was looking for. "About this time we heard of some strange preachers called 'Mormons' who had come to our neighborhood. I concluded they were some of the false prophets that the Bible speaks of and I had no desire to see or hear them. Soon after I left my home in New Jersey to visit relatives in Philadelphia, little thinking what would transpire in my absence. The elders held meetings near our home and soon after my sister Anna and some of my cousins accepted the truth and were baptized. She was filled with the spirit of the Gospel, and when I returned she urged me to attend the meetings with her. I went to the meeting on Saturday, but when she asked me to go on Sunday I did not know whether I ought to break the Sabbath day by going to hear them or not, but through her persuasion and that of a schoolmate, who had come some distance on purpose to hear them, I finally went, but upon returning home I went to my room, knelt down and asked the Lord to forgive me for thus breaking the Sabbath day. "T attended some more meetings and commenced reading the Book of Mormon, Voice of Warning and other works, and was soon convinced that they were true. A new light seemed to break in upon me, the scriptures were plainer to my mind, and the light of the everlasting Gospel began to illuminate my soul. While thus investigating, a little child died whose mother had joined the Latter-day Saints. The Baptist minister preached about it, regretting that its parents had neglected to have RACHEL IVINS GRANT RECOLLECTIONS OF RACHEL IVINS GRANT it baptized and thereby it was lost and could not have salvation. Afterwards Elder Hyde preached the funeral sermon and portrayed the glories of our Father's kingdom and the saved condition of the little innocent ones who died before they came to the years of accountability—'For of such is the kingdom of heaven.' "The contrast was very great. I was steadily being drawn to the Gospel net. One day while attending the Baptist prayer meeting our pastor admonished me for the course I was taking and said if I did not stop going to the 'Mormon' meetings I could not hold my seat in the Baptist church, and they would be obliged to disfellowship me for they could not fellowship anyone who would listen to such false doctrine. "This seemed to settle the question with me. One wanted to hold me against my convictions, and the other was free salvation without money and without price. I soon handed my name for baptism and rendered willing obedience to the first four requirements of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed through the Prophet Joseph in this the last dispensation of the fullness of times. And, oh, what joy filled my being! I could sing all the day long and rejoice in the glorious promises of the Gospel. Brother Joseph and Brother Grant and others came and preached to us, and truly the light of the Gospel was shed abroad in our hearts. The Bible I could understand as never before—its truths were made plain to me, and the plan of salvation lay clear before me. The spirit of gathering found a ready response in my heart, and I decided to go with my cousins to Nauvoo, the gathering place of the Saints. "The first year of my stay was a very happy one. The Saints were enjoying comparative peace and much prosperity. I became better 295 acquainted with the Prophet Joseph and I learned more of the principles of the Gospel. The doctrine of salvation for the dead was very pleasing to me, and the thought that my parents and others who were dead, as well as the living, could all be united together in happy family union in the eternity to come was very precious to my soul. My second year in Nauvoo was not so peaceful. These were troublous times for the Saints, much persecution and turmoil. I was sick with a long siege of fever and my life was despaired of, still my faith did not waver. I felt that I should live. I was administered to many times, and always felt better. After my recovery I went back to New Jersey on a visit where I remained till the Spring of 1853. "I started on my journey across the plains to Utah, arriving August 10, 1853. I have accepted every principle of the Gospel that has been revealed for the benefit and salvation of the human family. I rejoice greatly in the work of redemption. I acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all things. I realize that He has watched over me and guided me through life. I feel to give thanks unto Him every day of my life for His mercies and blessings unto me and mine. I rejoice in the hope of a glorious reunion with the faithful in our Father's kingdom in the world to come. I know that this is the kingdom of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I have had great joy and satisfaction in communion with the Saints, and desire to remain faithful to the end." FARLY in her life Grandmother was deprived of both father and mother. After the death of her parents she lived for some time with her father's father, Caleb Ivins, a man of lovable character; known throughout the countryside as the "Good Samar- 296 itan." When about twelve years old she went to live with a cousin, Thedosia Wright, who was known the country round as a _ housekeeper without a peer. Cousin Thedosia arose with her army of workers early each morning. The housework was carried through each day with precision and regularity. Grandmother, although just a young girl, had her definite assignment of tasks. She helped with the bedroom work, and washed up the glass and silver-ware after each meal. Fruit drying, bottling, preserving, meat curing and drying, cheese making, butter making, and all the culinary arts were taught her. Her brothers and sisters who still lived with the grandfather sympathized with her because of the rigid discipline of her cousin Thedosia, and her Grandfather Ivins assured her she was welcome to come home to him any time she wanted. Although Grandmother was young and discipline strict, she enjoyed her work here. She loved to see the rows of shining glasses on the shelves in the dining room and to polish the silver until it shone. She took delight in helping with the milk and butter and cheese making. When she was about eighteen, a cousin, a widower, needed a housekeeper, so Grandmother went to fill the position. The careful training of Cousin Thedosia was now used to advantage. Grandmother became quite famous for her fine housekeeping and wonderful cooking. ER acceptance of the Gospel - changed her entire life. In the spring of 1853 her sister Anna, who was married to a cousin, Israel Ivins, and who had joined the Church prior to Grandmother's joining, wrote her saying they had decided to go West. Grandmother began immediately to prepare to go with them. She hada little more than a hundred dollars. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This money she spent for bleach, calico, goods for both cotton and woolen dresses, thread, needles, bedding, pillow cases, sheets, and other: "store articles' which she thought she would not be able to get in Utah. (1 might say here that she found great use for these, giving most of them away to people who were in greater need than herself. She often laughingly remarked that her store was so depleted that when she had to make clothes for her baby, it was necessary to make over things as she had given all of her new goods away.) Uncle Israel was well outfitted for the journey. Grandmother often remarked with what comfort they came compared to many in their company. One would think such a radical change in the environment and mode of living as was necessary after arriving in Utah would probably change all the niceties to which she had been accustomed, but this was not so. It was necessary for her to work very hard, but she maintained her high standards of neatness and personal care. SOME years after the death of her husband, Jedediah M. Grant, President Young bought the original Grant homestead located where Z. C. M. I. Now stands. Grandmother had $500 from the estate and purchased a home on Second East Street. This home is still standing; it is No. 14. Into this little old home, which was badly in need of repair, she moved. Her store of household goods was very meager. She had a few broken dishes, some old furniture and a few things that had been given her. However, it was a start. Grandmother had to support herself and her son, who was but nine days old at the time of his father's death. It was hard in pioneer days to pay in cash for work and she would take anything RECOLLECTIONS OF RACHEL IVINS GRANT people were able to pay. It was during the early days in this home that she experienced severe poverty. She said one year they only had a few pounds of sugar, seldom did they have butter. Fruit and vegetables were scarce, and many meals consisted of bread fried in a little grease. Many a night she and father had to go to bed to keep warm because they had no fire. One day one of her friends, Daniel H. Wells, called to see her. She was busily sewing. He said he had received a letter from a friend who was coming to Salt Lake to open a business. This friend wanted a place to board, and Brother Wells asked if she would take the gentleman. He said to her, "Rachel, he will pay you forty dollars a month and that is far more than you earn sewing."' Grandmother decided to take Mr. Park Wood, although it was rather an unorthodox thing to do as the man was a "Gentile." Mr. Park Wood came and brought his wife, paying Grandmother eighty dollars a month. I have often heard father say that no matter how big a sum of money he has had in his possession that first offer of eighty dollars a month stands out as the greatest riches. One day Park Wood had a friend in the city and asked Grandmother to invite him to dinner. After the dinner was over the man, Col. Alex G. Haws, said to Grandmother, "Madam, I like your cooking, I like your face, and I am coming here tomorrow to board." Grandmother protested. She had no place to put him. He said, '"Madam when I came into your home I saw the signs of poverty." | Grandmother told him that she had borrowed the dishes he had eaten from. He then asked where my father slept and grandmother showed him a closet in which she had some boxes upon which she made her boy's bed. He 297 laughed and said he thought the closet was large enough for a single bed and if he couldn't get into the bed from the side he would step over the foot. He gave Grandmother a hundred dollars and told her to get the necessary things to fix up the room for him. Col. Haws came to live with them and a truer friend no one ever had. NTIL Grandmother was past sixty-five she maintained her own home, but due to her deafness father then decided it was unwise for her to live alone, so her home was enlarged and we came to live with her. Now instead of a whole house she had only one room and an attic. We children loved to go to her room, the younger ones to hear stories and have Grandmother sing to them, the older ones to study and read where it was quiet. Grandmother seemed to radiate a peaceful spirit. She had a little private income of her own, quite sufficient for her needs. In times of financial trouble she helped father with taxes and other bills. She was always very generous. Sometimes when we were in need of a dress or an apron or something or other Grandmother would help us out. I remember when I was about sixteen and was invited to a party. All the girls were having new dotted swiss dresses. I had spent all my allowance and so couldn't have a new dress. I was fixing my old one and telling Grandma about my troubles. She sent me down to get some samples of swiss and she went over to Sister Spencer's, a neighbor, while I was gone. When I came back, it was arranged that. Sister Spencer would make the dress for tithing pay and Grandma would purchase the goods. I remember I bought the cheapest piece I could because I knew Grandma was giving up something she needed in 298 order for me to have it. I didn't get any ribbon for it. After it was done, Grandma asked me if I didn't want some ribbon like the other girls had, and she gave me another dollar to purchase that. I wore that dress till every dot was washed off. OR more than thirty years Grandmother was the President of the 13th Ward Relief Society. In season and out she was visiting the sick, going to the house of mourning, dressing the dead, and in every possible way relieving human suffering. She was a very sympathetic listener to all troubled people, and while her own handicap of deafness often made people feel she was among the afflicted ones, she never seemed to feel sorry for herself. She would often say with her cheerful smile, "I am glad I can see; IJ feel blindness would be a great affliction." She loved to entertain her friends, and was always at her best when surrounded by congenial people. She had a happy faculty of making friends. When she entertained, she had the young, middle-aged, the old, all mingled together in sweet companionship. She read constantly. Her eyesight was remarkable. At the age of eighty-seven she could see as well as when she was a girl. She kept abreast of the times reading the newspaper, magazines, and good books. She had no time for fiction. She used to say life was too short for her to spend time on stories. She enjoyed the sermons in the Saturday News, and would watch for and read all the Conference proceedings. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Grandmother loved to sew, taking real pride in her needle work. It was indeed "art needle work". She made the finest linen handkerchiefs when she was in her eighties, using No. 250 thread to sew with. She did not look old, her skin retained its freshness. She was rather plump and had an erect carriage. One would have guessed her age several years younger than she was. Grandmother had a very satisfying philosophy of life. She believed in God with all her heart and in the innate goodness of man. She could see good in everything and everybody. She disliked anything bordering on coarseness. She had a high sense of honor and a fine feeling of sympathy for anyone in distress or sorrow. She was very liberal. Father has often quoted from a letter written to him by Colonel Haws after Grandmother's death in which the Colonel said, "If ever God has planted the stamp of serenity on the face of anyone He has planted it on the face of dear Aunt Rachel." HE testimony was always strong. She knew for herself that God had again spoken from the heavens and established His Church. Her Church was her life, and to it she gave her undying allegiance and her best efforts. Her heritage of faith has found lodgment in the heart of her son and in the hearts of her grandchildren and their hope is that they may have the sublime faith, the undying courage of this mother and grandmother. Dao * Sylvester Quayle Cannon By Julia A. F. Lund "By their fruits ye shall know them." T would be difficult to find a subject more thoroughly a "fruit" of our Church in its ideals and its standards, than is Sylvester Quayle Cannon. He was born on a farm just outside Salt Lake City at a time when the sturdy spirit of the Pioneers was still strongly reflected, for June 10, 1877 is not too far removed from July, 1847. His was the immense advantage of coming from parents who are in every sense "goodly parents." His mother, Elizabeth Hoaglund Cannon, was descended from those who laid the foundation of our American nation, achieved its independence, and established its government. His father 300 was George Quayle Cannon, one of the "pillars of our Church," gifted, scholarly, staunch of faith. Their influence was a powerful factor in the life of their son. His educational training began in a private school when he was only four years of age. He later attended the L. D. S. High School and Junior College and University of Utah. When only 18 he entered the Massachusetts Institute of Technology at Boston, being graduated in 1899 with the degree of Bachelor of Science in Mining Engineering and Metallurgy. As achild, Bishop Cannon enjoyed unusual advantages of travel. While still a boy he acted as private secretary to his father on a trip to England. The year of his graduation he was sent to examine an irrigation project in Alberta, Canada. This was followed by extensive travel in many foreign countries. He has visited every part of the United States. He has been given wide recognition in his chosen profession of Engineering. He had charge of Weber River Land and Irrigation Surveys for the State Engineer of Utah, from 1905 to 1907. He was Water Supply Engineer for Salt Lake City from 1913 to 1925— the longest term of any City Engineer of this city. He was in charge of all engineering and construction work, including supervision of all public improvements. Three storage reservoirs were constructed during this period. A new sewer outfall system and sewage pumping plant were built and the first special lighting systems were installed during his incumbency as City Engineer. A very important event in his life was his marriage to Winnifred Saville, June 15, 1904. Four fine sons and three lovely daughters have blessed this union. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Outstanding as Bishop Cannon has been in his professional and business fields, his greatest devotion has been evidenced in his service to the Church. His service as a missionary in Europe from 1899 to 1902 was of such high quality that in 1900 he was given the honor of presiding over the NetherlandsBelgium Mission comprising Holland and Belgium. In March, 1904, he was appointed First Counselor in the Stake Presidency of Pioneer Stake in Salt Lake City, a geographical division of the Church comprising about ten thousand members. In 1907 he was again appointed President of the Netherlands-Belgium Mission, spending two years (until 1909) with his family in that mission and traveling in Europe. In 1917 he was appointed President of the Stake in which he had served as counselor. His service to his Church received distinct recognition by his appointment in 1925 as Presiding Bishop of the Church. The Presiding Bishopric have supervision of about 96,700 members of the Aaronic Priesthood, are in charge of compilation of all ward, stake, mission and Priesthood reports, membership transfers, receiving of tithes, supervision of Church building construction, as well as many other details. This is a broad and fine preparation for the higher calling of apostleship which has now come to him. The General Presidency and Board of Relief Society work under the direction of the Presiding Bishopric. For many years this association has been very close, always on a basis of clear understanding and broad sympathy. The Relief Society feels greatly indebted to Bishop Cannon and the willing, capable advisers who have done so much to further the health and welfare projects and the general educational and cultural programs of the organization, Testament of Motherhood By Vesta P. Crawford LAINE turned restlessly in the narrow bed. Pale sunlight of early morning touched the window with slow fingers. Elaine saw the delicate etching of the dotted-swiss curtains. Morning. The morning of this farewell day. With sharp returning pain she thought of the quiet one sleeping in the big parlor downstairs —her mother, who had been so ill and so tired—now strangely at rest. "T can't believe it yet," she sobbed to herself. "I can't stand it." This day they would cover the dear one with earth and flowers and set her name in stone. Slowly the light touched the room, glowed on the little dressing table that had been Elaine's in girlhood, traced a pattern on the rug that long ago childish feet had worn thin. Familiar place, where mother and daughter had sat together sewing of a summer afternoon, reading by the fire of a winter night. But now these things would never be again. They were ended. And Elaine thought of how carefree youth: is, and then, when maturity comes, one is suddenly stricken with disappointments and loss. There were words that slipped back and forth in her mind, words that her mother had said on some nearly forgotten birthday long ago. What were -they—about mother's head lying low and the daughter being a woman grown—or something like that. Mother had said these words with tenderness in her gray eyes, for mother knew that life without cares and responsibilities is but an incomplete and narrow segment. And the poem said, "When my gir] is a woman grown and the cares of life surround her, may mother's prayers be known...." A woman grown... And here she was choked up with tears, afraid to get up and dress and go down the stairs and face this day. She was ashamed of her lack of courage. Courage. She thought of the word, for more than any other, it symbolized her mother's life. Courage. Elaine shook out the pillows and piled them up again, sank her head into the softness and turned toward the wall. "Mother darling," she sobbed with her eyes shut tight, "if only I were brave." It seemed then, in that quietness, that the days of her mother's life were like a path that only now, in newer vision, the daughter could see. X ok Ox "THE first was a day in summer. There was a deep canyon in the cedared hills and far up the slope against a wall of rock, a stream bubbled out and filled a little pond with clear water that trickled slowly down the ravine in a bed of moss and ferns. A boy, perhaps four, a chap with freckled face and mended overalls, bent over the pond, carefully dipping water into a bucket. Then the mother reached down and with her strong arms lifted up the bucket and poured the water into the barrel. She set the bucket back down and the boy dipped again. Then the mother turned to look at her other children. "Be careful, Elaine, don't drop the baby. You know it's quite a piece down that hill." Elaine looked up, sat further back on the rock, and braced her feet 302 into the ground. "I'm holding him plenty tight, and when I get tired T'll let Susan take a turn." Susan peeped out from behind a willow bush, her arms full of late blue flowers. "Look, Mama, what do you think Daddy will say when we get home with flowers?" She held them out and the mother gathered up a handful of wet moss and bound it around the stems. "Now they'll keep fresh until we get home." She turned back to the spring and again lifted the brimming bucket. The water splashed down with a delightful sound. "All hands busy," she called, and Susan and the boy pushed with her until they got the barrel to the edge of an inclined plank that connected the hillside with the wagon box. Then slowly up the plank they rolled the slippery barrel, the mother walking along on one side and the children on the other. The mother climbed into the wagon, turned the barrel upright again and pushed it back into the wagon box against the other full barrels. Her arms moved quickly, the smooth muscles straining. Finally she pulled the plank up into the wagon and fastened up the end gate. She untied the horses from a cedar tree and hitched them up, clipping the tugs expertly. She lifted the children up front and sat with Elaine and the baby, Susan and the boy, in the hard spring seat. Tightly she grasped the lines in her left hand and clung to the brake with her right, and they slid slowly down the steep road, listening to the water swishing about in the barrels. Finally the wagon rumbled out of the hills and down the road that skirted the fields. Yellow as sunlight was the wheat land with the grain tall and ripened. They could see a binder moving around the level patch with its wide bars moving like RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wings. They could see where the pale stubble joined the gold of the proud uncut wheat heads. The binder stopped and a man stood up and waved his hand and the mother waved back again. She was beautiful, sitting there on the high spring seat with afternoon sun on her face and her brown hands holding the lines, driving toward a log house that almost hid itself among the cedars on a rocky knoll. * OK "THERE was a winter night, years later, when they lived in town, and there was a blazing fire on the hearth. Elaine and Susan were head over heels in school work and the biggest boy lay sprawled out on the floor playing checkers with himself. The little boy, with a chubby finger pointing to the words, moved his lips slowly, delving into the mysteries of a primer. There was a baby asleep in the next room with the door wedged open a little so that the mother might hear any sound that came. One could tell the mother was tired, for occasionally she laid down her sewing and leaned back against the chair and closed her eyes. When the firelight fell in just the right place one could see that her hair was getting gray. Elaine turned from the table and saw the glow on her mother's hair. Suddenly she put her arms around her mother's neck and kissed her face. The girl, in her teens now, felt a deep and strange fear, for the mother was getting old and the gray hair of her temples lay soft and smooth above a network of fine wrinkles. "Ts it my new apron you're making now, Mama?" Elaine asked, touching the fine white lace. "That's right. It will be a little differént from the one you have on." Elaine was dressed in a plain little dark wool frock made over from her - TESTAMENT OF MOTHERHOOD mother's last-winter dress, but the plainness of it was glorified by a white apron of finest dimity trimmed with lace insertions. The mother wanted the girls to look pretty and dainty and the aprons were inexpensive—except for time and the mother's eyesight. Elaine held the new apron up against her and touched it tenderly. "Thanks, Mama. Everyone thinks I have the prettiest clothes." Then she looked down at her mother's rough red hands and wondered how they could make a thing so fine and lovely as a white apron adorned with lace. What a quiet courage mother has, Elaine thought, what loving hands. A a HERE came a day in June, fragrant with roses and soft with leaves and wind. It was graduation day. The college building, old, trimmed with ivy, had opened wide doors for the day. The mother, in a crowd of other mothers, made her way up the unfamiliar stairs. She looked timidly into the deserted classrooms as she passed and wondered how Elaine had spent the precious hours in these rooms. The mother wished, deep in her heart, that she might have gone to college and learned more abcut poetry and music and painting, and even science, perhaps. The world, she thought, must be very wide, and she had seen only a little niche of it. A niche bounded by home, husband, children. But the mother was proud of Elaine and she forgot that her own suit was old and mended and that her hat was two seasons out of date, her shoes polished and repolished many times. She forgot these things because Elaine had a new dress of finest organdy, hemstitched in rows of narrow tucks, and Elaine had silk stockings, webby fine, and white slip- 303 pers—lovely clothes to go with her black college robe. The mother hurried into the assembly hall and down the aisle. She found a seat near the front where she could see Elaine. There the girl sat in the center of the big stage, her gold-colored hair beautifully coiled under the black cap, her dress gleaming white where the folds of the robe fell away. After the band music and after the singing, the mother heard a clear young voice speaking, breaking the silence of a June morning. Elaine was valedictorian. "We face the future,'' the young voice said, "but we cannot forget that our tomorrow is based upon the yesterdays in which our parents worked and sacrificed to open for us a larger world. I stand here today because they, my father and mother, struggled bravely that my life might be made broad... Because of their courage I am here today..." Tears slowly dropped on the mother's pale cheeks, but she held her head high. * * * HERE came a night deep in November with rain and wind and darkness outside. Elaine lay upon a high hard bed in a clean white room. Dimly she heard voices, footsteps. Dimly she saw white figures passing back and forth. But there was a wall of pain between her and reality. Again and again sharp stabs convulsed her muscles, shot through her body with insistent terror. Tears brimmed her eyes and she cried out, "Mother... Mother..." Then soft lips touched her forehead. Unbelievably cool hands caught her own fevered ones and held them still. Elaine closed her eyes and rested a moment, then straightened her 304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE body to bear the next onslaught of pain. So this is what it was like, this frenzied darkness, this black despair. There came again the comforting touch of the cool hands. Elaine relaxed and thought for a moment of the gleaming chain that is motherhood through the ages. One mother comforting her daughter, who, in turn, was bringing another life into the world. Tightly the mother held Elaine's hands. 'Patience, dear. When you see your baby you will forget all this..." Such comfort in the words. Interval of peace. There, with her mother bending over her, it seemed to Elaine that courage came from her mother's body to hers so that she could endure the pain. * * "THE days of her mother's life, linked with her own. Now it was a morning in spring, and the last of these days was gone. Never again would Elaine call and be answered faithfully as mothers answer. The silver cord was broken. She turned restlessly in the narrow bed in this room of her girlhood, and the morning came in a pattern of flecked sunlight that made a radiance in the room. Elaine got out of bed slowly, went over to the washstand and splashed cold water on her face. She dressed carefully in a plain black frock with white collar and cuffs, and stood a moment before the mirror. Last night she had laid her little pocket Bible on the dressing table, the Bible her mother had given her long ago. She turned the pages now, noticed the passages that her mother had underlined... Fragments of beauty from the Psalms, paragraphs in the story of Ruth. And then, there in the nineteenth chapter of Job, the immortal words, scored with the mother's pen... "For I know that my Redeemer liveth... Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold..." Elaine closed the book softly, laid it back on the dressing table. She lifted her head and turned toward the door. "I can go down now," she said to herself, "this day shall be a testament of motherhood." aH MOTHER'S DAY By Ruth Partridge Richan Today should be a happy day, No mother e'er loved tears or sighs, Yet days of happiness may bring Wet dimness to our yearning eyes. The tears that come unbidden now Are not the tears of our despair, But love within us grown so dear It's hard for human hearts to bear. Some Thoughts Addressed to the Mothers of Israel By Leah D. Widtsoe HE presiding authority of this Church feels the pressing need of a more definite stand in helping our people to understand why they must refrain from the debilitating and demoralizing liquor and tobacco habits. They have addressed their plea to all Church members; but there is a distinct responsibility i in this regard resting upon the mothers and the homes of the Church. It has been said of old that "the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world." No truer thought was ever expressed. The mother's influence and the home environment truly shape the habits as well as the characters of all the family. Our greatest efforts should be directed toward the prevention of these vicious habits and to do that effectively everyone must be made aware of the dangers involved and how they may be avoided. In the first place, the body must be adequately nourished so that the nerves may be healthy and normal. When through improper nourishment the nerves cry out with an unsatisfied craving for something indefinite or unknown, it is an easy leap to the use of the tempting, well advertised drugs so commonly used - today. And even though the first trial may cause nausea or definite illness the urge of common usage may be enough to prompt repeated trials with the consequent soothing sensation which is the only positive factor the addict can advance. Then, almost before one is aware, the habit is established and one is on the road to complete drug enslavement. 'This applies especially to young girls and women who in their unwise desire for the slablike silhouette in vogue at present will often starve themselves, if necessary, so that they may preserve (as they hope!) their youthful girlish figures. They then become an easy prey for the deadly drugs masked in well advertised brands of cigarettes or cocktails which soothe for the moment, but wh. Ch in reality enslave their victims. Too often definite illness may result with a complete nervous or physical breakdown. This may come gradually, but unless the eating and other habits are changed it is inevitable. HE physical health of an individual as of a family or a community is basic for mental and moral health. Whatever builds health of body is desirable; that which depletes the physical or nervous energy should beshunned by all who would be well and joyous throughout life's journey. Thus it becomes most imperative that mothers study and apply the laws which insure physical health and well being. The proper food must be provided and wise eating habits established. In the second place, all must recognize that the drugs most commonly used by man today are all in the same category. Dr. George F. Butler of the medical department of the University of Illinois is authority for the statement that "the intimate relationship existing between the three great narcotic groups—tobacco, alcohol and opium—has been recognized by outstanding medical investigators. 306 Their effects are so similar that they may be regarded as a single entity— the drug habit." Harmful in a lesser degree, though certainly habit-forming and injurious, are the drugs found in tea, coffee, chocolate and all the advertised drinks that "give you a lift." The "drink that refreshes" as all others of like quality depends upon the powerful drug caffein to do the "'lifting" and "'refreshing.'"* Their effects are insidious and distinctly injurious to the delicate organs of digestion and especially to the brain and nerves. The great danger in the use of any drug-containing substance is that the one of ten leads to the other with an increasingly larger dose ever in demand. While it may not be true that every user of tobacco or alcohol will in time become an opium addict, it is true that one scarcely ever becomes enslaved to the deadly opium or morphine habit who was not first. A user of tobacco or alcohol or both. Certain it is that when one begins the use of any drug concoction no matter how mild or what the motive, one is "on the way" to future enslavement. The pity of it is that the more delicate the nervous organization, the more definite and rapid is the enslavement. That is the great menace to the use of any of these things by children or young women. All authorities agree that smoking and drinking are much more harmful to women than to men because women are much more apt to go to excess. If the lot of any drug addict is pitiable for men, it is most pitiable for women for they are the conservers of the race; through them the "Torch of Life" is passed on to future generations! If the torch be dim and uncertain then one may well ask "What does the future hold for the race?" If not for self, then for unborn children, girls and boys should refuse to mortgage the future. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MANY people feel that while it is definitely wrong to use alcohol or opium, there is practically little danger in the use of tobacco. It is true that smoking tobacco does not leave one intoxicated nor definitely incompetent as does the use of alcohol and other drugs. It is also true that many men who are recognized leaders in their field are users of tobacco. Yet the harmful effects of tobacco are inevitable and definite. All physiologists agree that the use of tobacco interferes definitely with heart action and induces a "constriction of the small blood vessels in certain parts of the body." Heart disease today is increasing enormously and counts among its victims young and old. Indeed it causes more deaths among civilized people today than any other disease. Its incidence has greatly increased since the World War. May there not be a definite connection between the increasing incidence of heart disease and the great increase in the use of tobacco? While there are other causes, certainly the use of tobacco greatly aggravates the disease. The great increase of gastric ulcer among civilized people is another evidence that their living habits are not right. The cause undoubtedly is wrong diet, yet this condition also is greatly aggravated by the use of tobacco. "Every smoker knows that smoking dries up the secretions of the mouth and many of them know that it causes high acidity of the stomach." There are conscientious doctors who refuse to treat patients with gastric ulcer unless they discontinue smoking. The same may be said about other diseases, notably all the diseases of the respiratory tract and the entire digestive system. While the cause of these diseases may be wrong or THOUGHTS ADDRESSED TO MOTHERS OF ISRAEL 307 inadequate nutrition yet they are all greatly aggravated by the use of tobacco in any form as well as by other deadly drugs. Probably the greatest menace of the tobacco and other drug habits are the effect upon the reproductive powers of men and women and eventually upon the human race. Doctors are agreed that smoking not only affects the intimate sex life of men and women, but that it also has a "profound and deleterious effect upon all of their other sexual and reproductive functions." Surely the cigarette must stand condemned! ALCOHOL, or its use in any form as punch, wine, or the social cocktail, is equally dangerous and may lead to far more human misery. While tobacco is a nerve poison affecting especially those which control the terminal blood vessels, alcohol is an active glandular and tissue poison, causing their destruction or conversion into fatty tissue. It is especially liable to affect the heart, liver, and other organs of the body; but its deadliest effect is on the brain where it "acts in such a way as to block nervous impulses not merely in outer nerve channels but in the brain itself." The most direct effect is upon the higher brain centers, leaving the lower impulses in the ascendancy; thus intoxication results and one becomes something less than a human being. This is sure to cause much physical suffering in time and to greatly shorten life. That this is a calm statement of fact, instead of the plea of a would-be reformer, one need only accept the findings of the great insurance companies of this and other countries. They all agree that the death rate among the strict- © ly temperate or moderate drinkers is 15 per cent to 100 per cent higher than among those who are total abstainers. These are facts, not mere theories. Indeed there seems to be a direct relation between the amount of alcohol consumed and the bodily harm that results therefrom. Were the harm that comes to the user of alcohol in any form the only consideration it would be enough to make one pause before taking a first sip of the deadly stuff. But that is too often the least part of the misery that may be caused by its indulgence. It always inflicts unnecessary suffering upon all the family and dear ones of the user and too often the torture or even death of innocent strangers when he sits behind the wheel of an automobile. O one may deny that the use of alcohol and tobacco, as of other deadly drugs is greatly on the increase amongst so-called civilized peoples. Dr. Frank Leighton Wood sounds a needed warning: '"'What is to be the outcome of the narcotic drug addiction in this country? Must we forget the lessons taught us by the Greeks and Romans? Although we have advanced marvelously in science and mechanics, in many respects we are not more cultured than were the Romans in the year A. D. 300. They had advanced to a high state of civilization, but, with wine and debauchery, came physical, moral, social, and political ruin. Perhaps our civilization has not already gone to pieces to the extent that Hendrik Van Loon thinks, but, unless something is done to stop the present trend toward the enslavement of American women with race-destroying drug habits, we are on our way and will follow in the footsteps of the founders of former civilizations." In this fight for right the mothers of this Church must take a stand. Did not the Lord intend that his people should be leaders in this regard 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE when He gave us the Word of Wisdom over one hundred years ago? Then, what are we doing about it, Mothers of Israel? Our duty shall not be done until we ourselves learn and then teach our children the harm and suffering caused by these destructive agencies and how. To avoid them. Our greatest efforts must be placed on the prevention of these habits amongst our dear ones. Our homes must be free from taint and we must learn to control our appetites if we expect our children to resist these insidious temptations when they leave the parental roof. The mother who indulges her own appetite for tea and coffee; who serves her brandy pudding sauce, ''doctored" punch, or holiday egg-nog; who makes fermented root beers or wines; or permits the use of hard cider in the home must not be strprised when her son or daughter yields to the Tempter outside the home, especially when met at the social or party and surrounded by pleading or scoffing friends (?) who may ridicule their refusal. Nothing but a firm background of faith in a Higher Power, a sure knowledge of the consequences, with a mental picture of Mother and Father standing consistently firm against these practices, will give your child the strength to say "No!" on this all too common occasion. Shall we not dedicate ourselves to live every day as Mothers and providers of the home-morale so that we and our children may not be victims of any enslaving habit, that thereby we may help our children and others to understand the Joy of Being Free! Ol Se THE APPLE ORCHARD By Grace Candland Jacobsen Did you ever see an apple orchard In full bloom, When each bough is bending low, With its wealth of drifted snow, And an orchestra of bees Fills the air with symphonies? Have you ever stood beneath that heavenly bower Of sweet perfume, Folding you within its subtle sway, While the sunbeams there at play, Add their glory to the day? Have you ever walked adown the orchard path When the wind In saucy wanton mischief strayed, And watched that billowing cascade, Of pink and white brocade? If you have not, then you cannot Know the beauty hidden there, For the earth holds naught so lovely As a blossomed orchard fair. Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd By Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER TWO HE ward had all been visited and I felt that a good foundation had been laid for our winter's work. We had seen every woman in her own home. This had given us a workable grasp of her problems and her needs. We were having an officer's meeting to see that everything was in readiness for the opening of the season's work. Toward the close of the meeting when IJ asked if there were any other problems to be brought before the meeting, Mrs. Stimmel, our Literary class leader, rose and in a "do-ordie" tone said: "Frankly, I am worried over my lessons. I heard Bessie Dye and a group of her friends talking and they expressed themselves as opposed to the Literary lessons—and the Social Service too. They doubted if they would attend." "Why did they take that attitude?" "Bessie said if there was any good reason for reading the books outlined she would stay home and read them instead of wasting time listening to some one else tell them. They all agreed that literature had no place in their lives." "We have always had a larger attendance at Theology and Work and Business meetings." Mrs. Blomquist had charge of the work meetings and she was justly proud of the attendance. "You feed them," Mary Grosbeck said, "that does the trick." They all laughed, then looked to me. J was slow to speak for I had noticed this condition last year and now that I was in a position that gave me authority I was determined to break it up. Mrs. Horne, the Social Service leader spoke. "T had that trouble last year. Ridiculous as it may seem much of the lesson material is over the heads of some of the group." "That is true,' Mrs. Blomquist nodded in agreement, "but there is nothing can be done about it. If the lessons were put to their level they would bore the others." GOMETIMES Rhoda Blomquist irritates me. She had been in the former presidency and had acquired the attitude that certain conditions could not be remedied and it was best not to stir up something we couldn't handle. She opposed all changes on general principles. But she was most excellent in her work, and a balance for Mary and me. In choosing workers I had tried to. Have all groups in the ward represented. Only through them,. It seemed to me, could we really reach all of the women, and such varied experiences and opinions would tend to keep us from becoming 'smug and_ rut-satisfied. "Once," I began, praying for tact, "I was in a teacher-training class, that resembled a lesson in Greek to' most of us. The attendance dropped. To almost nothing. Then the teacher ' was changed and in two lessons we were a different class. He attacked each new problem from a familiar standpoint and from there led us into the realm of the unfamiliar." "T get your point," Mrs. Horne said, "but where in literature or social service can one find familiar ground from which to start?" "Literature ts life and social serv- 310 ice problems are so thick about us we do not recognize them as such. Both are bound inextricably to theology—and to me no lesson is a lesson unless each woman gets something to carry away and use in her daily life. There is another reason why work meeting is more popular. Who takes part?" '""Why—why everyone." "Exactly. And I have noticed if the women come to Work and Business meeting and there isn't anything for them to do the attendance drops the next time. We are all interested in that in which we have a part. Moreover, I think our organization has a more far-reaching responsibility than merely giving book reviews. They may go any number of places and hear them. To us lessons are a means to an end, and that end is the development of our women. My vision includes every mother in Zion growing with the group and only when all are advancing can an organization be said to be growing." "And," Mary added, "we chose you two for class leaders because we thought you could do the work." Happily they caught the viewpoint and after some discussion we were dismissed. GOING home I wondered if I had said too much. "I chose you because you have vision and courage," the words came back to me. That did not mean rationalizing nor following the line of least resistance. If that were true then my organization must include women from all classes and each must find food for her soul. I stopped in the Emporium to do some shopping and just inside the door ran into Mrs. Holman and Jeanie. "Oh, Mrs. Maylord," the girl cried, her eyes shining with happiness, "Grandma says we can take the piano home if I will keep the front RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE room clean and don't let anyone scratch it." "Do you think you can do that, Jeanie?" "T'll help her," the mother said, "it would be easier if we had that back room fixed so we could sleep in it." "Then you may come for your lesson next Thursday. Be there at four." How much better that neither suspected I had influenced the grandmother's decision. It was going to be very hard to give time to the child but I could not have done otherwise. One never knows what little things might lead to. In the drygoods department I came suddenly upon Salle Richards. She stood against a counter talking to Don Grow. Everywhere I turned lately I faced this boy and his equally intrusive mother. What could I do to keep Salle away from them? "Too bad she has to run with him. It is all his mother's doings. She is crazy about Salle." Startled, I turned. Nedra Williams stood beside me, her glance turned to the couple, her lips curled with bitterness. "What do you mean: " "Oh, you know what I mean. You were looking at them and not with approval. Don and I were to have been married and I know he still loves me but Salle butted in and now he is crazy about her. He thinks. It is a feather in his cap to go with a girl like her." Muttering some excuse I moved away. She had told the truth but it made me uncomfortable. Under pretense of examining linens I watched. Nedra joined them but Salle handled the situation with poise and assurance. I caught snatches of their conversation and was surprised at 'Salle's wit. DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD *"May I do something for you?" I forgot her then in the problem of purchasing; but fifteen minutes later when I again passed that way they were still talking. Don lounged near Salle, possessiveness crying aloud from his every move. Nedra was still with them and doing a very good job of taking it on the chin. I started toward them and as I did so Kent Evans came through the swinging door and walked toward them. Instantly Salle turned rigid and when he stopped to speak to them I could have cried aloud in dismay. The girl's poise and grace slipped from her like an unfastened gown. She flushed and stammered and made no move to introduce the two men. But Nedra did and when Kent left the group she went with him. As I passed, Salle looked up and our glances met. I had forgotten my own eyes were full of tears but in hers I saw such stark misery and self-depreciation I hurried away; but even in that instant of seeing that I was watching her she turned defiant. I WAS nearly to Maylord's grocery when I heard a quick step beside me and a hand touched my arm. Startled, I whirled about. It was Salle. "Oh, you nearly frightened me." She did not answer immediately but walked with her head high, her eyes turned ahead. When she did speak the question seemed jerked unwillingly from her lips. "What is the matter with me?" I glanced swiftly over her shoes, her dress and finally her face. She was in deadly earnest. This was no angling for consolation. She must have stark truth. "Your hair would be beautiful if it were better cared for. Your dress should be a little shorter and should have been cleaned instead of washed 311 —and it could be better pressed. Your chin goes down instead of up and there is a whine in your face." My frankness took her breath. She flung her head in sudden anger. "Hold it," I cried, "you are positively beautiful now. Not your anger but your attitude, your self-forgetfulness. Keep your eyes that way, alive and shining." Her anger passed and she drooped again. Tears threatened. "Why am I not like other girls? You saw how flustered and idiotic I acted when Kent came up. That was the first time I have seen him since his return." The way her tone caressed his name told me volumes. She had so hoped to register a good impression. No wonder she was heartsick. I asked, "You like Kent, don't you?" She nodded numbly. "I—I always have. We ran around together a lot when we were younger. But lately I can't be myself when he is ound He doesn't really see me at all." WE had reached the store and I turned to go inside. She followed. The first thing I noticed was that the office door was open and Tim was showing Mrs. Grow back into the store. He was laughing at something she had said and I had not seen such a carefree look on his face for a long time. Something primitive and terrible rose within me. Why did she come so often to his store and what attraction was there about her? She was a rather large, raw-boned woman, with a very bright eye and ready tongue, and she dressed to attract attention, I thought. What could Timothy have in common with her? As they came toward the front of the store my fighting spirit rose. I stepped into their line of vision. 312 "Hello," I greeted them gaily. Both looked suddenly at me. Was Tim startled or pleased? I couldn't tell. He smiled and turned to a customer. "Oh, hello," Mrs. Grow answered and her glance shifted to Salle. "There you are, Dearie. I was wishing for some one to walk home with me." She wasn't going to do it that "T should say not," I said easy. "Salle is going home with crisply. Me." A light that was gone before I could identify it flicked through Mrs. Grow's eyes. Her tone changed. "Then come over this evening, Dearie. Don and I will both be looking for you." "Okay," Salle answered. I helped myself to what I wanted and made a slip for it. There was nothing unusual about that but for some reason I felt slighted. That made me act all the merrier. Salle left with me. "Why did you tell her that?" she demanded suspiciously when we were on the sidewalk. "Tell her what? Oh, that you were going home with me? You are, aren't you? I want you to stay for dinner." The girl's keen eyes searched for a hidden reason. 'You don't like Mrs. Grow, do you?" That shocked me. If my feelings were so obvious I must take care. I evaded. "Do you?" "Yes," the girl cried fiercely. "I love her. She is one of the nicest women I know. I know what people say of her but there is no truth in it. Your husband knows that. I am glad he is so courteous to her. Of course she has her own standards about some things." Now what did she mean by that? I could not trust myself to ask. Luckily we reached my home and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE there on the steps sat little Jeanie Holman. She rose as we approached. "My, you are a long time coming. I have been here most an hour." "Come in with us." I opened the door and my own children smothered me with embraces. It was some minutes before I remembered Jeanie. "What did you want, Jean?" I asked then. "Mom wants you to come. Daddy took all the money and left. He talked mean to her." » My eyes turned involuntarily to Mrs. Jenkins who had been caring for-my children. She shook her head, "I'm sorry but I must go." "Tl stay," Salle offered abruptly. "But,'— "Go along. The children will stay with me. Won't you, Denise?" Denise turned her appraising eyes upon the older girl. After a moment she said, "TI like you." I sighed with relief. Denise did not take up readily with people. That said something for Salle. WO hours later I came wearily up my steps again. I was tired and so discouraged. Mrs. Holman feared her husband had left her for good and woman-like wantcd him back. The only thing I could do was listen to the depressing, heart-breaking story. It would take a wiser person than I to adjust matters between them. Order and regularity were almost a ritual with me so I could sympathize with the husband. And here was my own tired husband who would have to wait for his dinner. A glance at the living room showed me he hadn't come yet. I went to the dining room. There little Tim was laboriously placing silverware, being directed by Denise. "T'm helping," he cried. I kissed them hurriedly and with a sigh of relief turned to the kitchen. DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD "Um-m-m, it smells good in here." Salle enveloped in one of my aprons was whipping cream. Perched beside her and listening wide-eyed was baby Rob. She looked up as I spoke and paused. "You are back?" "Yes," and I thought, "and worried needlessly over a late dinner. It smells so good." "T thought perhaps you would be late so | went ahead. I hope you don't mind." "Mind! Home." The dinner tasted as good as it looked and smelled. In the dining room, before Timothy, Salle was again awkward and constrained. I was more determined than ever to do something for this girl who was so capable and yet so incapable. "She is overconscious of a social situation," I told myself, "and the remedy for that is familiarity." You saved my happy BEFORE we were through eating the doorbell rang. Timothy went to answer it. We heard him say, "Hello, Kent. By George, I had forgotten we were to fix those teacher's lists. Come in until I finish my dinner." Fate. It could be nothing else > 313 that would send Kent Evans here tonight of all nights. I decided to take time by the fet-lock or whatever it is he is grasped by. When dinner was over and I saw an opportunity I said, "What luck you came, Kent. I thought I would have to loan my husband to Salle but now you are here you may see her home and I will keep my tired Tim." "Splendid." Kent laughed, I thought, a little eagerly. 'There is a new moon outside. Just the night for a stroll." Later I remembered that Salle's face had darkened but at the time I took no notice of it. When J returned from putting the children to bed she was gone. In the kitchen was a note. "T don't need someone to make dates for me." There was nothing to do but tell Kent. He laughed it off, but I noticed his eyes snapped. I laughed with him. It was the only thing I could do but it taught me a lesson. Next time I would not be quite so obvious. Such things to be genuine must, like a flower, unfold slowly and naturally. Anyway it took my mind away from the thing Salle had said about my Tim. (To be continued), MY CREED By Sarah Maria Davis Thatcher (April 5, 1877) One by one thy duties wait thee, Let thy whole strength go to each: Let no future dreams elate thee, Learn thou first what these can teach. Every hour that fleets so slowly, Has its task to do or bear, Luminous the crown and holy, If thou set each gem with care. Do not linger with regretting. Or for passing hours despond; Nor thy daily toil forgetting Look too eagerly beyond. es Wf 'a SPRING MESSENGERS By Ella J. Coulam When zephyr breezes stir the new green dress Of willow trees that wave in Maytime glee, And lilacs sway in orchid loveliness, I catch my breath in glorious ecstasy— For these are silent messengers that bring A promise of sweet summer after spring. EVAN JENSEN Women and Tithe Paying By Donna D. Sorensen UCH has been spoken and M written of the power and in- © fluence of women in promoting a cause. Probably not many women have realized how potent can be their influence upon the family in the payment of tithes. Generally men are the providers and as such they desire to make available to their families the best within their power to supply, and the present day budgeting of the income is largely left to the women. Because tithing involves the finances of the family and women usually spend the greater proportion of the family income, a wife and mother fully converted to the law of tithing usually means a household where this obligation is met. A few years ago when a young couple were married the husband expressed to the wife his earnest desire to pay his tithing. As time went on and added responsibility came, the wages of the couple never seemed to more than meet their expenses and the law of tithing was not kept. The plea of the wife was that the income was insufficient. Dissatisfaction entered the heart of the husband, and the wife was not happy over her attitude either as she had been taught differently. However, she was not sufficiently converted to the principle to catch the vision and to change her attitude. Had each had the same desire in this matter, love and peace would have thrived in their midst instead of loss of respect, bickerings and general dissatisfaction. Surely no woman can purchase anything that would give the inner satisfaction and the promise of blessings from our Father as much as in making the income provide for the payment of tithing. EVEN though the Prophet Joseph Smith charged the women of Relief Society with the instruction "to provoke the brethren to good works," a woman's influence in the home extends further: than aiding and abetting her husband to obey this principle. It is her responsibility in part as parent to remember that the Lord has given specific instruction in this day that it is the duty of parents to teach their children to "walk uprightly before the Lord." He says further that "I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth," for, says He, "I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. These. Things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them.'— (Doctrine and Covenants 69:31-32.) The late Apostle James E. Talmage has said that "The prime or great purpose behind the establishment of the law of the tithe is the development of the soul of the tithepayer,' and "Tithing is the Lord's order of revenue, and He requires it of the people, not because He is lacking in gold and silver, but because they need to pay it." Greediness is not engendered but rather unselfishness is taught the child when the mother teaches that child to take the tithe from his allowance or his small earnings and present in person such a tithe to his bishop. PSYCHOLOGISTS tell us that the way to establish a habit is to 316 give the child practice in the habit and to make it extremely satisfying. With this knowledge in mind then the more often the mother can give the child practice in the payment of his tithing and the more ways she can devise to make such a practice satisfying means added assurance that the habit will become a fixed one. Certainly the praise of the mother and various family members, the keeping of the individual receipts of tithing paid by the child and reference to them at the end of the year and various other devices will make this a most satisfying experience to the child. Women are usually the guardians of details in the home and the zealous pursuance of suggestions in the matter of meeting this law of tithing will yield rich dividends. What gratitude would a_ child taught such a principle have when that child is grown and that habit has been established to find that he has learned not only obedience to a commandment of God but has been blessed by the Lord to the extent that the Lord has opened the windows of heaven and poured him out a blessing even as He promised one of His prophets He would. Children may be taught the law of tithing in the Church auxiliaries but all such teaching cannot equal the example of the parents in the home in this matter. Here a child may gain a comprehension of his obligation to our Father. Here he may learn that the Lord is no respecter of persons and what He requires of the greatest He requires of the least. The responsibility of the mothers to teach their children this law is greater when we realize that not only was this a law which was known anciently but that it has been re-enacted in the Church in this dispensation of restoration and fulness. Women might well examine with what attitude they meet this obligaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tion, for often the attitude of the entire family is the attitude of the mother. There are those whose attitude is one of mere acceptance toward a duty. Some may go a step further and express a willingness to comply, but blessed indeed is the household where the mother regards the payment of tithing with eagerness and happiness of spirit that the Lord has given to the faithful this means of promoting His work on the earth and meriting untold blessings. In obeying the will of our Father in regard to this law many women can testify that there has come to members of their household renewed eagerness and willingness to conform to the word and will of the Lord in other matters. It seems to be a law of life that the more perfectly we measure up and live a law of God the more we desire to measure up in other commandments. Especially is this true of the law of tithing, for as Apostle Rudger Clawson has said: "Tt is the test of every man's faith, and it is the test of every woman's faith who earns means and should be a tithepayer. That is the test, if a man is an honest tithepayer he will be pretty honest in everything else. I declare unto you, if a man pays tithing, he will pray, he will go to his quorum meetings, he will go to his sacrament meetings, and he will do a great many other things. I do not know that you could apply a greater or a stronger test." This same idea too is in a statement by Brigham Young but treated conversely when he said, "If we neglect to pay our tithes and offerings we will neglect other things and this will grow upon us until the spirit of the Gospel is entirely gone from us, and we are in the dark, and know not whither we are going." If women use their influence in promoting this law in their households they will have the privilege of WOMEN AND TITHE PAYING having their families numbered with those who have the interests of this Church at heart inasmuch as they have contributed their proportion to the upbuilding of Zion and the mainSith tenance of the work of the Lord on the earth. Satisfaction will flow into their inmost beings and there will be implanted within their souls "the peace that passeth understanding." CTRL GO MY LITTLE SON By Afton Free Baird Tenderly we gaze in rapture At the golden curls and star-lit eyes, And wonder if Heaven's gates had opened And we had looked inside, Would we have chosen so wisely? Would we have chosen this babe From all the glorious unborn souls To fill our hearts with love and sunshine? Could we have known his smile and tiny hands Could lift us both from mortal sod, close up to God? The Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde NO. V—THE "GROWN-UP" PERIOD "Could we give one gift to every child We should choose the love of books."* —William Fredrick Bigelow. ORE important than the M training of the body or the education of the mind, is the development of character. This is not the place to debate ethical theories, but it is the place to call attention to the fact that character is developed by instilling in children sound views of conduct and by strengthening the proper motives. With grow children we can't be too rigid about what they read. We can't hold the reins too tight, but we can read with them and poke fun with them at the extravagances of poor stories. Even well-brought-up boys are likely to get the lazy-minded series habit unless they have some antidote. If you and your daughter have read together enough that she stops, voluntarily in her reading to say, "Oh, mother, listen to this," if you have made her want to share the delights of a book with you, you have taken a long step. It is infinitely better that your training provide her with a capacity for the enjoyment of literature, than that the schools teach her a technical knowledge of a few pieces. Occasionally, a parent's conscience prods him into saying, '""What's that you're reading, a novel? I wish you would read something worth while." When the child says, "What, for example?" the parent stammers, "Oh, your history, or chemistry, or literature, anything worth while. *Courtesy "Good Housekeeping Magazine." Your grades aren't so good that you can waste time on stories." When you feel like that, think back upon what has been done with novels; the nation-wide effects of the novels of Dickens and George Eliot; the pleasures found in reading the stories of Arnold Bennett, Edna Ferber and Willa Cather. Be careful not to speak slightingly of novels lest you skip some of the best literature we have. Read with your children. Discuss books with them and so make reading a family interest and a family pleasure. NE of the best reasons for reading is for companionship! In books you often come across someone who understands you, who speaks your language and thinks your thoughts; who has troubles and solves them, temptations and overcomes them. They act as an anchor to you. Though they are not your special troubles, it is the struggle and the way it is carried through that counts. Take "Jane Eyre" for example. Read it again with this thought in mind. Jane Eyre was plain in physical appearance. Most heroines are beautiful, but the average girl is not, and so your daughter immediately finds a sympathetic soul. The story is wild and romantic, but through all the tempests Jane Eyre manages to keep steering straight ahead. Read "Mill on the Floss" again with your daughter for the loves and griefs, rebellions and question- THE CHILDREN'S READING ings of one girlhood, and incidentally, for many of the emotions your own daughter has felt but hasn't known how to express. Most people in their teens are helped more by fiction than by biography. Most adults are helped more by biography. In novels you can know what people are thinking, feeling, wishing. 'This you do not know of the people you meet. We may learn, vicariously, through people in books, if they are real people. And that is what life is—learning by experience. It is worth while for your son to live through the experiences of other people as we do in such books as "Kidnapped," "Moby Dick," or "The Man Who Did the Right Thing." "THERE is no cut and dried rule for the choice of books. They are supposed to prepare us for the life we will live. And who knows in this changing world, what it will be for our children, now in their teens. But one thing we do know. Truth is truth from one generation to another, and a good novel will always tell the truth. It may do this in many different ways. It may deal with yesterday, today, or totnorrow; 319 it may deal with good people or bad, but it is good so long as it deals with them honestly. In reading love stories—and young people should read them—let us select novels with intense but splendid emotions, which show that life may be full of splendor and romance. A few intense things such as "The Cloister and the Hearth," will take the taste out of the next worthless book. HE finest literature is the simplest, the most vivid and vital. When we have learned to appreciate exquisite simplicity, we will be a long way on the road to an appreciation of the best in literature. There is no disgrace in not being able to sec the beauty and meaning in many fine things the first time we read them. One way to exercise a mind is to try it occasionally on something we don't quite understand, then come back to it later. As we develop these new beauties appear. One writer says: "For the high adventure of reading you must develop not only sight but insight, and that sometimes comes slowly, partly by growth, partly by cultivation, and partly by the grace of God." QUOTATIONS HAPPY is he that is happy in his children —Thomas Fuller. "THE childhood shows the man, as the morning shows the day. —Miulton. [MPARTIALLY their talents scan: Real education forms the man. —John Gay. Happenings By Anne Wells Cannon [DEARER are the lanes of Earth today, As the spirit of flowering May In perfumed glory adorns the way. COUNTESS GERALDINE APPONYI, Queen of Albania, is the beautiful daughter of an American mother and Hungarian father. Through Mussolini's intercession the Catholic Church's opposition to her marriage to King Zog was overcome. RACHEL CROTHERS, a successful woman playwright, has a score of Broadway productions as well as many Hollywood films to her credit. FORMER Empress Zita gathered her children around her at midnight mass to pray for Austria and the Hapsburgs. However futile were her prayers, this tragic picture made a pathetic appeal for world sympathy. ETZY KJELSBERG, of Norway, vice president of the International Council of Women, is touring America, lecturing on social problems. YOUNG ELIZABETH STEELE STAPLEY who died last month was the first white child born in Utah. Death also claimed last month Elizabeth Pixton Harker, Eliza Ann Wertoner Redd, and Armeda Snow Young, all faithful and devoted Relief Society workers. ELEN WILLS MOODY again expects to compete in two English tennis tournaments and enter the Wimbledon championships. KATHARINE GREY of California, aged 100 years, says she has no formula for longevity. She reads, sews, and crochets for pastime. MONG the new books, written by women and praised by the reviewers this year, are first, "Young Doctor Galahad," by Elizabeth Siefert, which won the $10,000 prize for the best first novel of the year; and 'We Americans," by Elin L. Anderson, which won the $1,000 Armisfield prize. Then Isak Dinesen's "Out of Africa," a lyrical picture of an African farm; "Tunny Kemble," a famous Juliet of the long ago, by Margaret Armstrong; "An Infamous Army," by Georgette Heyer; "Caroline of England," a novel of English social life from the early nineties to the death of George V, by Noel Streatfield; "The Light of Other Days," by Elizabeth Corbett; "This Proud Heart," by Pearl S. Buck, her first novel with an American setting; "A World Can End," by Princess Irina Skariatina, an autobiography embracing the period of the World War and Russian Revolution, all interesting vacation reading. MES: CLARENCE WEBER is the first woman member from the state of Victoria elected to the Australian Parliament. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth LOUISE YATES ROBISON -: AMY BROWN LYMAN:: KATE M. BARKER - JULIA A. F. LUND President First Counselor: -: Second Counselor -:: - General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Nettie D. Bradford Ida P. Beal Marcia K, Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Janet M. Thompson Belle S. Spafford Jennie B. Knight Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Donna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor:::: c - E. Manager: - - -:: - - ° c; Assistant Manager:: -:: ° C ° - Belle S. Spafford Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman 

Vol. XXV MAY, 1938 No. 5
Editorials
Merited Honor
For the purpose of honoring and uplifting motherhood the second Sunday in May is designated Mother's Day by national act. The observance of a national Mother's Day is to be commended. Prompting expressions of love and kindness this day has brought joy to mother hearts the nation over. Helping children, young and old, to a realization of their indebtedness and responsibility to "the best mother who ever lived" has expanded the joy and enlarged the characters of thousands.
People generally like to be honored but in motherhood as well as in any situation let us be honored because of genuine merit. There are as many degrees of excellence in motherhood as in any other thing in life. It is a great privilege to mother children whether they be ours by birth or circumstance. With mothering are born love, hope, pride, ambition, and many other glorious attributes of character. With privilege comes responsibility. In mothering, that responsibility is to intelligently rear our children, wisely guiding and directing them toward honorable living.
Intelligent mothering is certainly more than highly emotionalized mothering which showers love and adoration upon the child to the point of overindulgence; mothering which so sacrifices itself to the weakness of the child and justifies and upholds him when he errs; mothering which so sacrifices itself to the child that he never learns the meaning of cooperation and unselfishness. Intelligent mothering realizes that the child's future to a large extent is measured in the mother's ability to influence and direct wisely. It establishes in the home worthy ideals and standards; it teaches faith; it trains the child to conquer self; it teaches the gospel of work; it develops honesty and loyalty. It provides opportunity for the best development of the child physically, mentally, morally and spiritually. It constantly holds the child up to his best efforts.
The genuine mother reaches beyond her own, sensing her responsibility to all children. Wherever a child is found cold, hungry, in need of attention or care of any kind she renders loving and intelligent service. Mother's Day is a good day for taking stock, for reflection upon the ambitions we hold for our children and for all children, and also for consideration of the way in which we are performing our tasks as mothers. No greater honor can come to any woman than to rear a child to manhood or womanhood, reflecting her teachings in worth while and honorable living. No greater tribute does the mother ask.
Distinguished Visitors
The West has been distinctly honored in the recent visits of two distinguished women, Dr. Mary E. Woolley, and Mrs. Betzy Kjelsberg. Dr. Woolley, former president of Mt. Holyoke College and national Chairman of the People's Mandate to End War, made a strong plea for women to be active in the cause of peace. Hope for peace in the future she placed on the long range peace movement among youth "who are determined that theirs shall be a different kind of world." "Either we believe that we can build a more kind and logical world or we believe that life is but an idle dream," she declared.
Mrs. Kjelsberg, internationally prominent Norwegian social worker is Vice-President of the International Council of Women and President of the Norway Council of Women. Twice decorated by her King for service to Norway's workers she is making a tour of America to study labor and social problems. Like Dr. Woolley, she urges American women to bend every effort to keep out of war.
Both women have rendered unusual service to their native lands as well as exerting an international influence. Contact with women of such vision and influence brings an appreciation of the place women hold in the world today, and the service women are now rendering the world. It is a stimulant to all women to become active in furthering worthy causes such as peace, social reform, etc., which improve human relations.
Presiding Bishopric
The General Presidency and Board of Relief Society are privileged to have as their advisory council the Presiding Bishopric. During the administration of Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon, David A. Smith and John Wells, the relationship has been most pleasant and of inestimable value. The clear vision of these leaders with regard to Relief Society objectives and problems, their sympathetic understanding, has enabled them to counsel with wisdom. The Relief Society is indebted to these men for the service they have rendered in furthering its work.
The new Presiding Bishopric, Elders LeGrande Richards, Marvin O. Ashton and Joseph L. Wirthlin, bring to the position the wisdom and understanding of years of service in the Church. As Church workers they have had opportunity to understand and appreciate the work of Relief Society. That the same spirit of understanding and cooperation will continue to exist there can be no doubt. We extend to these brethren the best wishes of the Relief Society Organization.
Acknowledgment
The office has received many communications from different sources expressing appreciation and commendation for the contributions of the Singing Mothers to our recent Conference. We acknowledge these with gratitude, gratitude for the talented and well trained women, gratitude for the thoughtfulness which has prompted so many kindly expressions. The following is typical of the letters received: "I cannot refrain from letting you know how I appreciate the marvelous contribution of your Singing Mothers to the recent Conference. I have never seen a more beautiful sight or heard finer music, and to all I extend my congratulations." RESPONSE By Mabel L. Gleason You're giving me praise today For reasons I know not why; For love I've shown my children For whom I'd gladly die. Don't think I've minded the long hours I've tended, watched and prayed; These are golden links in my memory, The only ones I'd hoped to have stayed. The days I've watched o'er the cradle The little ones lying there; Don't thank me for care I've given, Care I'd not have been willing to share. Now they've grown tall?these babies of mine Grown to manhood,. Womanhood too; And I long for the old days And those lost little jobs to do. I ask no praise for my life's work, Their love is all that I need; Just knowing they're filling their niche in life Is honor and praise indeed. Relief Society Conference April 1 and 2, 1938 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held April 1 and 2, 1938, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison presided. The following sessions were held: Officers' Meeting, Social Welfare Department, Work and Business Department, Relief Society Magazine Department, Secretaries' Department, Music Department. Two general sessions were held in the Tabernacle. The reception for the Singing Mothers, the one for the Stake Officers, and the President's Breakfast were delightful events. The attendance was very gratifying, and included enthusiastic workers from 116 stakes and 12 missions. The following is the attendance record at the Officers' Meeting held in the Assembly Hall, Friday morning, April 1, at 10 o'clock: Mission Presidents, 12; Stake Presidents, 108; Counselors, 135; Secretaries, 67; Board Members, 404; Total, 726. The ushers were from the Salt Lake OFFICERS' and Liberty Stake Relief Societies. Among the outstanding features of the Conference were the magnificent music, and the launching of the Membership Campaign. In connection with this, special attention must be called to the membership song, "One Hundred Thousand Strong," composed by Beatrice F. Stevens of the General Board of Relief Society. The "Rallying Song" was introduced by a double trio from the Ensign Stake, directed by Ruth Jensen Clawson, and a talented group representative of Relief Society members with Jean H. Wesseman as accompanist. Others whose talents in music added much to the meetings were Lily Priestly's organ prelude. Inez Robinson Preece's quartet, and the beautiful solo by Eliza Bringhurst. The combined choruses of Relief Society Singing - Mothers, directed by Charlotte O. Sackett, with Alta B. Cassity and Frank Asper as accompanists, made Relief Society history. MEETING GREETINGS AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS By President Louise Y. Robison MEETING with the devoted leaders of Relief Society is a continued source of joy and inspiration. REFERRING to the ruling on donations received by Visiting Teachers, we feel more strongly than ever that all donations collected by Visiting Teachers belong in the Charity Fund. If members of Relief Society or others wish to contribute to the General Fund, we shall be most grateful to them if they will give or send such contributions to the President or Secretary of the Relief Society. WE would like to emphasize the request that officers refrain from using Relief Society for advertising purposes. The fine project for better methods of laundering clothes brought many offers from soap manufacturers for demonstration in Relief Society. We are quite opposed to having any commercial article featured in our meetings. WE have received many compliments from the General Authorities of the Church, morticians, and from Relief Society Presidents on our suggestion that funeral flowers remain undisturbed until after the mourners have gone from the building. We were advised to take this action by members of the General Authorities. IN a few of our stakes, a charge is made for luncheon served on Work and Business day. We hope you will find some other way of obtaining finances. Many of our sisters would be happy to pay for their luncheon, but in each ward there are fine, faithful members who cannot afford this expense and who will not feel comfortable in attending these meetings. "THERE are occasionally Ward Presidents who do not work in harmony with their Stake President. They do not attend Union meetings and feel that they need no advice in the conduct of the Relief Society work. This is a serious condition. There must be complete harmony between stake and ward officers or the work of Relief Society suffers. Before any woman accepts an office in any department of Relief Society she should know what the requirements are and be willing to live up to them. Unless ward officers give loyal support to stake officers, they cannot expect loyalty from their own group. Remember always that the spirit of the Lord is with us only when there is harmony and a desire to cooperate for the good of the whole group. WE have had a wonderful response to the hurried request sent from our office a week ago for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 325 a report on what the Relief Society had done for Church Security, The Presiding Bishopric asked us to get the report for the First Presidency to use at Conference. Within a week, ninety-nine stakes and missions had reported. Although the Southern States Mission is so far away our Mission Mother, Sister Clayson, had her report in the office on time. N making the survey for the clothing requirements of our people Relief Society has discovered some families in urgent need at the present time. In a few cases the bishops have requested the Relief Society to supply those needs from their funds. Evidently these bishops are new in the work, as Relief Society has not now, nor ever has had, sufficient funds to care for rent, light, food and clothing. Relief Society offers service. Our funds are to be used in cases of emergency and to supplement the work of the bishop. HERE are some very fine organizations outside of our Relief Society who are working for the benefit of humanity. We are eager to have our Societies cooperate in spreading useful information but we are opposed to having regular Relief Society class work interfered with or having dues to any other organization collected in our meetings. To'the extent that individual members can subscribe to these helpful movements we are in hearty accord, but this is entirely outside of the Relief Society. WE advise Relief Societies to cooperate with the Agricultural Colleges, with the county agents and demonstrators in any state in which they reside. These trained people have valuable information on the needs of the body and the kinds of 326 food which supply those needs. Deficiency diseases, which result from improper diet, are as great a menace as the contagious diseases. To understand the chemical requirements of the body and to know the foods which supply those needs is of great importance to mothers. WE are making a change in the Relief Society Magazine Honor Roll awards. Instead of all Relief Societies competing on the same basis, there will be three groups. One group will include all wards and branches with membership up to 49 inclusive. One group will be those Societies whose membership is from 50 to 99 inclusive, and a third group will include those with a membership of 100 or over. We feel this is more just. Presidents will please appoint a member of the Board to be responsible for the activities of ward Magazine Agents. We have had heartbreaking experiences when some of the ward Agents, who have worked RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE very hard to get subscriptions, have sent their reports to the stakes and the stakes have failed to get the information to headquarters in time for the credits to be awarded. E acknowledge with deep appreciation the very interesting publications which come to us from the missions. One recently reached us from Sister Nibley of the Northwestern States Mission with some very fine reports. The Northern States Mission sends them to us frequently. They are most helpful. Sister May Green Hinckley of the Northern States Mission gave us the very fine idea of placing useful Relief Society information on the back of our membership cards. We shall adopt this suggestion when we print other cards. May the Lord bless you with vision to see the needs, and health to carry forward the work in a manner pleasing and acceptable to yourselves and to our Heavenly Father. ANNOUNCEMENT By President Louise Y. Robison THE Government has appointed Miss Daisy Duncombe to make a survey of the hard of hearing who are living in Utah. If you know any persons who are hard of hearing, please advise them to communicate with Miss Duncombe, 1259 Sherman Avenue, Salt Lake City, giving information relative to age, sex, and education. ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary IT is always a rare opportunity to present a very brief summary of the Annual Report of the Relief Society and to express the deep appreciation the general office feels for the splendid cooperation of the Stakes and Missions. The reports this year were more perfect than ever before. We are grateful to our fine secretaries. The following is a brief annual statement for the year 1937. This includes Missions, Stake Boards and Ward organizations. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 327 ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1937 (Missions, Stake Boards and Ward Organizations) Total Balance on Hand, January 1, 1937........$ 205,042.91 Total Receipts During 1937.....323,871.20 Total Balance on Hand and Receipts.......... 528,914.11 Total Balance, December 31, 1937......... 223,546.65 Total Assets...... 1,019,328.36 Ward Conferences Held 1,499 Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers............. 991,623 Number of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound................... Membership in 1936, 73,062; in 1937, 75,064; an increase of 2,002. The Membership includes: Executive and Special Officers.............16,026 Visiting Teachers..........25,486 Other Members........33,552 Average attendance in 1936, 31,784; in 1937, 31,203; a decrease of 581. Paid, tot Caer Purposes in 1936, $66,189.48; in 1937, $67,632.09; an increase of MORMON HANDICRAFT Counselor Kate M. Barker 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FROM CORNER STONE TO KEYSTONE By Rae B. Barker I. DUES. The dues for Mormon Handicraft are one dollar a year. The membership year will be the same as the membership in Relief Society?January to January. II. STANDARD OF WORK. On the whole the work has been excellent, but some which was sent in could not be accepted. Work must be examined by the stake Work and Business leader before being sent to the shop. When the work has once been accepted by her, other articles of the same kind may be sent without her accepting then, but any new type of article must be taken to her for approval. III. ORIGINAL WORK. The articles which sell best are the ones with some distinctive feature and originality, providing they are artistic and well made. Stamped articles, such as anyone can buy at the department stores, do not sell well. IV. PATENTs. The material must be good and the handwork fine No article will be accepted which is a copy of articles already in the shop. I. DUES. The dues for Mormon . PRICING. The articles should be priced by the person sending?the price that she wishes for the article. The shop will then add 25% to her price for overhead. No handwork will bring wages such as is paid by the hour for work outside the home. This is an opportunity for women to stay in the home and supplement the family income. Our motto is: ?A little profit in a little time not wasted.? VI. CONTROLLING THE SUPPLY. There are now about three hundred and seventy-five women participating. Some means must be taken to control the supply. Before any thing is is sent to the shop, the stake Work and Business leader should write and ask if there is room for it. FROM CORNER STONE TO KEYSTONE By Rae B. Barker. ONE sweep of the mind carries us from March 17, 1842 to March 17, 1942. In these two dates, and the two significant events associated with them, we find the impetus for our present Relief Society Membership Campaign. On that original Relief Society birthday a little handful of women gathered to hear the plan conceived by the Prophet Joseph Smith. With him they built the foundation and laid the corner stone of our great organization. That is now history?we are still making history. The momentous event of the one-hundredth, or centennial, birthday is but a short time off. We are anticipating that date with eager interest for it is our keen ambition to be one hundred thousand strong by that time. The time is ripe to launch a big membership building program. There is an underlying purpose in this campaign which is much deeper than the mere enrollment of numbers. That purpose is to build Latter-day Saint women, and_ to strengthen our organization so that it can serve in ever wider fields. The strength and power of Relief Society is measured by the number of women it serves. How great can be the force of an ever increasing membership of spirited workers, positively charged with a desire for intellectual and spiritual growth, with high moral standards, and with the desire to serve others! The magnitude and scope of such a force not only improves the morale and fiber of our Church, community and nation, but it strengthens the individual so that with greater assurance she may meet the ever changing conditions of this interesting age. In 1842 we numbered only eighteen. By the end of the first year our membership had increased to about one thousand. By the end of the 75th year (1917), our numbers had increased to approximately fifty thousand. Then came the war period with its increased demands for welfare service. The result? Our rate of increase was about four times as great as it had previously been. During the past fifteen years, our growth, even though it was not as pronounced as during the war period, has continued steady and sound. What of the next four years? Spotlight of Attention RELIEF SOCIETY wants to do big things. In the next four years we want to definitely accelerate our rate of growth. The present tempo of living is much faster than it was a century ago. Consequently, we expect big things to be done in a short time. Interest usually follows attention; so we are turning the spotlight of attention upon the challenging problem of increasing our membership. Shall we be One Hundred Thousand strong by 1942?. Let us emphasize the strong, for we must continue to build substantially, always maintaining and elevating the high standards that have formed the foundations of this enduring structure. We must build for permanency. General Plan THAT shall be the general approach to our problem? Growth and building seem to connote the same thing. The membership campaign is in. Every sense a building program. Down through the years many, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE many women, each finding personal satisfaction and each making a personal contribution, have in the aggregate been building a serviceable "living monument". The arch has been chosen to symbolize this monument, and we will set out to complete this particular membership arch. Significance of Corner Stone and Keystone A LITTLE about the construction of an arch may be of interest. Two terms used to designate important features of the structure are the corner stone and the keystone. The tradition of the corner stone is common knowledge. Often within the corner stone are sealed historical information, resolutions and ideals. The significance of the keystone may not be so commonly known. We often hear of a key man?one who is so important that he is indispensable to his organization; or a key situation?a situation upon which other conditions hinge. The keystone is just as vital to the arch. It is the center of the crown of the arch, and, being the last member to be set in place, is regarded as binding the whole together. Thus the strength and solidarity of the arch depends upon the keystone. Use of the Keystone F, in the next four years we can average a 3314% increase over the 1937 enrollment of about 75,000, we can reach the 100,000 goal. For example, if a stake with a present enrollment of 300 increases to 325 the first year, to 350 in two years, and to 400 in four years, it will have reached its objective. Any stake, ward or mission making its 3314 9% increase in four years will have achieved "keystone success." 329 Plan WE are immediately concerned with a plan that will help us reach our objective. Since we are looking ahead to 1942, a four-year program suggests itself. Our four-year theme is "Building the Membership Arch." The slogan, which we hope will be lavishly used to make our people Relief Society conscious, is: Members Old, Members New, One Hundred Thousand by 42. For psychological reasons, short plans are best. So, the four-year plan will be broken up into one-year plans. Fundamentals in any Campaign HERE are certain fundamentals which are important to the success of any campaign. First: A name, or theme can serve a real purpose. Second: A short time for an intensive drive is most successful. Third: Competent leadership is necessary. Fourth: The use of showmanship is decidedly important. Fifth: Follow-up work is essential to success. Sixth: There should be a simple and effective system of awards. Theme THEME can transform an uninteresting matter-of-fact subject into something of special interest. An idea becomes concrete enough to attract attention. It identifies. A theme serves also as a motif which lends itself to featuring. A theme appropriate to this year's membership activity is ""New Construction." We leave it to you as stakes and wards to develop this idea of new construction in your own way. We might keep in mind that, 330 as always, the ward is the actual building site, and that quality materials and skilled labor are of utmost importance to the success of the project. Short Time Drive INTEREST fades to the vanishing point if a drive continues too long. The 1938 campaign will be launched with the opening of Relief Society next fall, and the drive will end on December 15th. All reports can and should be in the general office with the regular annual reports. Competent Leadership NO drive can be very successful without competent leadership. More will be said on this point under the heading of "Personnel." Showmanship SHOWMANSHIP is the art of dressing up an idea. By this means, a point may be stressed in a more effective way than by the use of words alone. Everyone likes a show, enjoying the play atmosphere. Often we are willing to work hardest at our play. "We are visual minded. Eye impressions stick." An old Chinese proverb says, "One time seeing is worth one thousand times hearing." You will find many opportunities for the use of showmanship: in publicity features, stunts, displays, progress charts, etc. For instance, to visualize the progress being made, one suggestion might be to use an arch designed as a picture frame, and mount on it snapshots of new members as they join your group. Much interest and fun might be stimulated by selecting "catchy" snapshots where possible. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Follow-Up Work "THE value of consistent, quiet, follow-up work can hardly be overemphasized. To illustrate: A progressive group of executive officers invited all Relief Society members, both active and inactive, and all women who might be potential members, to a delightful "At Home." It was given in the president's home. For several weeks following, an increase in attendance was noticed at the weekly meetings, but it was not permanent. Perhaps some definite follow-up work would have paid big dividends on the initial investment; personal visits, perhaps leaving a magazine to be called for on a second visit, etc. Awards AWARDS of various kinds have long been used to stimulate interest and activity. We might pass on this interesting observation from Mr. Zenn Kaufman who, from his wide experience in conducting sales contests, says that the honor award ?the satisfaction in succeeding? seems to be a greater incentive to work than material or monetary awards. There will be many opportunities to stimulate ward activity through awards offered by the Stake Boards. Personnel WE have always worked to increase membership, but concentrated work on membership is a new departure. Careful preliminary planning will be necessary before actual work begins. For best results the main responsibility should be fixed on some one individual in each stake and ward. It is advised that a member of each Stake Board be assigned as Stake Membership Coordinator for RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE this drive, and that she be relieved of other special duties as far as possible. Where a board is not already too large, and where some particular woman, not now a member of the Stake Board, seems to have outstanding qualifications for managing such a campaign, she might be added to the board for this particular work. Likewise in each ward, a woman especially qualified for the work should be chosen as Ward Membership Coordinator. This ward appointment could be made for the period of one year, and where desirable, the same person could be re-sustained the following year. The coordinator, whether of the ward or stake, should, of course, work in close touch with the presidency. May we impress the thought that this calling is an important one, for the success of the project depends in large measure upon the ability of those who plan, coordinate, and direct the drive. Coordinators should be chosen with the following qualifications in mind: 1. A projective personality; some one genuinely interested in people; one whose friendliness is felt. 2. Someone who can approach the work with sound enthusiasm and who has a zest for tackling problems. The person with an original idea and who is afire with enthusiasm is an inestimable power. 3. Executive ability; the ability to plan, to organize, and to make the plan work. We must all be good saleswomen. A good saleswoman is one who knows the A B C's of her product ?in this case Relief Society work? and then has the ability to interest her prospect in trying it. As representatives of Relief Society, are we familiar with: 1. The course of study. 331 2. The use of membership dues. 3. The significance and benefits of welfare work. 4. The duties and opportunities of visiting teachers. 5. Some of the outstanding services rendered by the general organization for community, national and international welfare. Do we know, for instance, the part played by Relief Society in improving local health conditions; the food conservation and Red Cross work done by Relief Society organizations during the World War? Having the above mentioned information is a part of preparation in the art of securing members. Department In Union Meeting THE coordinators should be appointed at once, as considerable time is needed for effecting concrete workable plans. Will the Stake Presidents please note the need of a department in Union meetings. Coordinators and Existing Groups THE existing groups of Relief Society officers make a splendid set-up to carry on the membership building program. Each of the groups in the various departments will be asked to handle some part of the drive: executive officers, class leaders, work and business leaders, enlistment committee, and visiting teachers. The stake and ward coordinators should jointly plan the work of the intensive drive. It will be the definite responsibility of the ward coordinator to meet with each group, plan with them which phase of the work they can handle best, and see that it is carried out. 332 The responsibility may sound heavy, but the most successful executive is an artist in sharing the work. There is a real advantage in delegating much of the work. Every woman used is another one interested. Stress the importance of dividing the work. Opening the Campaign WITH regard to actually launching the work, it is suggested that the executive officers open the campaign, perhaps with a guest day, or with any function which suits best. Keep in mind the fact that you will have to create your own atmosphere?one of enthusiasm. The Work and Business day offers opportunities for fruitful contacts through social functions. Since the enlistment committee in many wards acts as a standing hospitality committee, these two groups might work together on a social occasion. The details of plans to be used with each group will take shape as you get into the work. We are sure you will find it challenging to your resourcefulness. Sales Talk IF we examine the assets column of the Relief Society ledger, we will find many values accruing to its members. We are affiliated with a women's organization of national and international standing. Alone, any one person's influence would be negligible in solving a community problem, but the organized strength of many women can be, and is, a real power. Relief Society is democratic; its doors stand open to all women of high purpose. It offers a broad scope RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of opportunity for personal development. The rise of adult education is an indication of the sweeping urge for more culture. For many women, Relief Society has been a serviceable instrument in satisfying the need for complete development, head, hand and heart. A vital part of our work is to concern ourselves with the wellbeing of others. Through this phase of the work we increase our capacity to love one another?a rare virtue. One of our greatest assets is that we are auxiliary to the Priesthood of the Church. Our organization is unique among women's study groups in that it offers an opportunity for religious study, thus crystallizing our spiritual concepts and nourishing our faith. Merit is eventually reflected in our membership rolls. To merit what we want, is to attract more women; we must always be rediscovering Relief Society, reexamining our general practices, and making opportunities to be friendly. We must discover our women's talents and interests, and make use of them. We must find our strength, sense our weaknesses, and overcome our handicaps. We have set out to do a big piece of work by 1942, but this is a day of stupendous achievement. We aim for "keystone success." Let the spirit of gathering spread among the women throughout the entire Church, and let this be our creed?Faith to Succeed. The address given by Rena B. Maycock in the in the Officer's Meeting will appear in a later issue of the Magazine. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 333 WORK AND BUSINESS DEPARTMENT Lalene H. Hart, Chairman RESULT OF WORK AND BUSINESS PROJECT By Lalene H. Hart WHEN something has been accomplished everyone is ready to declare it was easy, but before it is begun they say it is impossible. This was somewhat the feeling many of our Relief Society women had when our Work and Business Project was launched Jast April. All the difficulties of such an enterprise were seen at once, yet, a thing well begun is half done, and moreover, the surmounting of: the first barrier gives courage and strength for those following. This proved to be the case with our project. In order to get definite and tangible information as to the contribution our organization is making in its legitimate field of economics and family relationship we asked that a survey be made with two objectives in mind, first, to supply factual data to verify or challenge general statements about present day family life; second, to help women to understand and evaluate their own work and problems. The following is a brief summary of that survey: No. Of stakes reporting, 99; No. Of stakes participating in project, 94; No. Of stakes reporting more than 50 per cent of membership participating, 35; No. Of wards reporting, 849; No. Of wards participating, 720; No. Of women making bread, 84 per cent, 25,459; No. Of women doing sewing, 75 per cent, 24,485; No. Of women doing launering, 92 per cent, 28,832; No. Of women carrying on project in bread making, 64 per cent, 5,652; No. Of women carrying on project in sewing, 61 per cent, 4,342; No. Of women carrying on project in laundering, 76 per cent, 5,836. The figures show that more women do their own laundering than other activities. Only 50 per cent of women were interested in the project at first, but as it progressed more became active. Many liked the discussions and the actual work, but did not want to keep records or file reports. Demonstrations, lectures, discussions, exhibits, contests, debates, visits to flour mills and laundries were some of the methods used to put over the project. To the question of what definite value the project was such answers as these were given: It has created an interest in women's problems, and a desire to do more efficient, scientific and professional work. More wholesome and better bread is being made and used than ever before. Non-members have become interested with the result that they want to know more about Relief Society work. All the women participating agree that it is more economical and satisfying to create and do things at home. While our objectives have not been fully realized, the project has been very much worth while, and is more far reaching than we know. Since many women feel they are just home makers and these activities too commonplace to be studied, Work and Business leaders have a big opportunity to help them to be the very best home makers. This department is comparable in its cultural value to the other prescribed courses, and requires thorough preparation in making it one of the best departments in the Relief Society. It can be done! 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SUGGESTIONS FOR WORK AND BUSINESS FOR 1938-39 By Donna D. Sorensen FROM the beginning of our organization sewing for the needy has been, and probably ever will be, the most important obligation of the Work and Business department. This activity should never be neglected. However, in response to repeated demands which have come from the stakes for additional help in planning for this day the General Board will print in the July Magazine nine topics for discussion for the coming year on the "Selection and Preparation of Food for Proper Nutrition." Under each of these topics will be given the names of various pamphlets and addresses where these may be obtained. No lessons will be written and the way the stakes and wards utilize this material in the Magazine will be largely left to them. However, the General Board suggests:
1. That the use of this material be optional in the wards and may be used in connection with the traditional activities of the day.
2. That this matter of nutrition is worthy of serious consideration by the wards of the Church as it is timely and worth while.
3. That if any additional material or any other subject be selected by the wards it must be presented by the ward Work and Business leader to the stake for its approval and at any event any subject selected must be on some phase of homemaking. Book reviews or any program on any subject other than home making are out of order on Work and Business day.
4. That the stake Work and Business leader will be responsible for obtaining the pamphlets for her various wards and obtain them early enough to distribute at the Union meeting preceding the day they will be utilized.
5. That if this material on nutrition is used in the wards that the treatment of it be considered in an informal manner with the idea of having an interchange of the thoughts and opinions of all the women present, rather than presenting the material as a formal lesson.
6. That in wards where this material is considered the ward counselor in charge of Work and Business and the ward Work and Business leader consult, and conjointly choose a woman to lead in this informal discussion on Work and Business day. A different woman will be chosen to lead the discussion each month, thus distributing the responsibility and bringing more women into activity. We suggest that each of these women chosen be asked to attend the Union meeting where the pamphlets on her subject for discussion will be distributed.
7. That if the wards in a stake choose to discuss this subject of nutrition the stake leader of Work and Business give it some consideration at Union meeting and the time and emphasis be left to the discretion of the stake leader.
PLANNING FOR SOCIABILITY
Nellie O. Parker
Sociability is an important gateway to an abundant life. The more we use this gate and extend our friendly contacts the more we enlarge our world.
"The world stands out on either side No wider than the heart is wide."
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Friendship is one of the sweetest things in the world. The intellectual and spiritual things we share with others make us richer. The more we give away of this spiritual wealth the richer we are.
Social recreation of any type that helps us enjoy fellowship with one another and gives an opportunity for growth, opportunity to be and become one's self, and to have joy in living is very desirable. It is fundamental to our nature to crave companionship. We get pleasure from doing things together. Even hard work is enjoyable when done in a group?for example, a ward dinner or community fruit canning. We experience recreation of spirit in singing and playing together, and when we share food with one another we obtain a completeness of sociability that nothing else seems to give.
We should aim to make our Relief Society contacts as friendly as possible. Let us think about what others are interested in and try to make them happy. This is a vital element of true etiquette. Assign certain members to welcome everyone who comes to meeting. Strangers and visitors should be given special attention and introduced at least to those by whom they are seated. Let someone look after their comfort and see that they enjoy themselves.
We recommend that Work and Business day be made a happy social day, a sewing circle linked to a party spirit with an atmosphere of informality, insuring free and easy discussion and a feeling of friendly cooperation. Secure constructive conversation by directing it in proper channels to correlate with the project in hand. See that everyone feels she is a vital part of the organization. Plan the social hour so that everyone takes her turn in helping when luncheon or refreshments are served. Give thought to planning the social hour; draw on your originality; vary your menus; have little surprises and glorify the common things, but keep them simple and within the reach of the frugal purse. Keep abreast of the times.
If members, especially leaders, will radiate their enthusiasm and give their best thought to Relief Society, planning ahead and looking forward to it as one of the big things of their lives, they will stimulate interest and enthusiasm in others. Everyone will want Relief Society; it will gain in prestige. Those who work in the organization love it enthusiastically. Our problem is to give everyone something to do. The good leader will divide work, getting as many to participate as possible. Make an important occasion of the installation of new members, and also the welcoming back of inactive ones into active service again. Let someone sponsor the prospective member and make a little talk in her behalf, telling of her interests, talents and achievements. During the social hour the new members can be the honored guests. Everyone should meet them and extend a friendly hand in welcoming them into the Society.
For festive days plan decorations that are typically "our own." We have great ideals and traditions, we have only to work out our own symbols. Let us encourage originality and artistic talent. Let us make Relief Society very alluring and desirable, remembering that those who serve Relief Society most, love it best.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
MAGAZINE DEPARTMENT
Belle S. Spafford, Chairman
SERVICE AND SELLING
By Vida Fox Clawson
A good magazine representative must first have the ambition to place the Magazine in the home of every Latter-day Saint. She must think about it. Why should it go into the home of every Latter-day Saint? In the first place, the very fact that it is there testifies that the home is a home of culture and the mother discriminating in her taste. The fact that it is there increases the faith of the children. Even if they don't read it, it is good for them to have the Magazine in the home.
This is a day when the good and the bad are so closely intertwined that it is difficult to choose the right. For example, we listen to a glorious radio rendition of Aida or some grand opera, and we are uplifted, then we realize that the sponsors are perhaps cigarette advertisers. This advertising is very subtle but very effective. Few of us realize the effect of it. After months of such advertising, we become used to the thing which at first shocks us. We say, "Well, I guess it's all right. I guess it isn't as harmful as we thought it was." We grow less and less rebellious.
The same thing happens to the boy who learns to admire the editor of a magazine through reading his editorials, and then some day perhaps he sees a picture of this man with a cigarette in his hand. The boy, if young and brought up according to Mormon ideals, is shocked. But he begins this process of thinking, "Well, I guess it's not so bad after all," and finally gets to the point where he thinks it is not so wrong to smoke.
The more magazines advertising tobacco, liquor and things of that kind which we have in our homes the more we need the Relief Society Magazine as a supporting anchor, for it comes to us absolutely unpolluted, not only in its articles but in its advertising.
It is difficult these days to choose the right from the wrong. Right now you and I would have no definite convictions about this life and the life to come if we didn't feel that we are being led by divine leadership, inspired leadership. Those who have the publication of this Magazine in charge are inspired women. How grateful we should be to have this Magazine come into our homes and how eager we should be to carry the news to others.
A good representative should feel it just as much a mission to sell the Magazine and place it in every Latter-day Saint home as any missionary who goes out into the field.
Let us take a peek into some of the Magazines. Suppose there is a boy who is in his early teens and is just a little bit wayward. His companions are not always what his mother wants them to be. He picks up the Magazine and sees this one little sentence, "No man can be provident of his time who is not prudent in the choice of his company." This makes an impression upon the mind of that boy and he becomes more careful in the selection of his companions. If you had been the representative to place the Magazine in that home, don't you think you would have rendered a real service?
Suppose you have a neighbor who for some reason cannot make ends meet, nevertheless she buys the Relief Society Magazine, and a few months later when she meets you, she says, "You know when I bought that Magazine, I made a real investment. In the September number there was an unusually easy and good recipe for whole wheat bread. I never had baked before. It was so delicious and the family liked it so well that I just formed the habit of making my own bread. It's just unbelievable, but that little Magazine has paid for itself over and over again with just that one recipe." Wouldn't you be thrilled?
Now suppose that some one, as I did, came across the title, "Home Scriptural Reading," and thought, "We don't do enough of that in our home, but we are going to gather around the fireside every day and read the scriptures." Wouldn't you be happy if you had been the woman fortunate enough to place the Magazine in that home?
"By their fruits ye shall know them." This is just as true of magazines as it is of persons. What kind of women read the Relief Society Magazines? They are the salt of the earth. Reading the Relief Society Magazine helps every person to form a better life.
"By their fruits ye shall know them." What kind of women are they who publish the Relief Society Magazine? They are the salt of the earth. What a privilege it is for you and for me to come in contact with such women, and I sometimes think that they let us look into their souls much more distinctly through their writing than through any other source. In the January issue of this year two women whom I have known and loved for a long time have permitted me to see both of them better?Mary Connelly Kimball, the Editor of the Magazine for a long time, and Sister Talmage, a constant reader and an occasional contributor. These two women are the type of women whom we contact through the Magazine. It is a great blessing.
God bless the women who gather together and bind the lessons, the editorials, the stories, the poems, month after month, into a magazine worthy of our best selling efforts.
ACHIEVING THE GOAL
By Rose H. Neeley?Ensign Stake
When called to work on the Stake Board, my President told me my work would be with the Magazine. After careful checking with the wards, we found the subscription list low and felt that we had work ahead of us in building it up. Each chain is as strong as its weakest link and we had no desire to be the weak link in our organization.
The ward Agents were called together in Union meeting and plans made. We felt that we must become fully acquainted with the contents of the Magazine in order to present it intelligently to our subscribers. We arranged a program which was very helpful to us, and which we still follow. We have roll call which is answered by a verse or quotation taken from the Magazine, then an article, story or poem given by a member. This helps in our study of the Magazine. We have reports on what each ward is doing in regard to renewals, etc. We have discussions, and study instructions given us by the General Board.
Our aim is for each ward to go over 100 per cent each year. When we began this work we had less than 50 per cent of our members taking the Magazine. When our 1937 drive was completed we had a stake percentage of 96, with six wards over the top and the other two wards on the 75 per cent roll. We have two wards that have gone over the top each year for the past six years.
We thank our Heavenly Father for the help and inspiration He has given us; also our Stake Board, ward officers, and members who have so loyally supported us, and the ward Agents, fine, dependable sisters who work so faithfully throughout the year.
ACHIEVING THE GOAL
By Clara B. Wright?Salt Lake Stake
As a group in Union meeting we have studied the pamphlet, "Instructions To Magazine Agents." We have spent several Union meetings in intensive study. By our first Union meeting we have prepared and handed to President Williams a year-round program. In February our Stake Secretary gives us the entire individual ward enrollments. As a group in Union meeting we take these figures by wards and analyze them to find out just how much work has to be done each month, as we feel that it takes twelve months to accomplish our work. By carefully watching subscriptions we are able to secure large percentages.
A yearly report is compiled by the Stake at the close of the year and on the day that we make our awards in Union meeting this report is handed to the ward Magazine Representative who in turn takes the report to her President. We have found this has been a stimulus for effort the next year.
To illustrate: The Seventeenth Ward has an enrollment of 175 for 1938. Their total 1937 Magazine subscriptions were 123. Since October 1937, they have secured ten new subscriptions which makes a total of 133 subscriptions. 175 total enrollment minus 133 subscriptions equals 42 subscriptions to obtain in order to reach 100 per cent. From March to October is six months, and 42 divided by 6 equals 7 new subscriptions to be obtained each month. Of course we must not lose one active subscription. To guard against this we carry a pocket note book record of all subscriptions.
Special ward activities were used in achieving the goal. In one ward the President worked with the Representative. By interesting non-members of the Relief Society in the Magazine and by receiving small contributions here and there they were able to place 11 subscriptions in homes where the Magazine had not been before. The Relief Society gave eight subscriptions to retired Visiting Teachers from money taken from the General Fund.
In another ward the President and Magazine Representative called for volunteer service during the summer months in the cause of Magazine work. Another ward gave as a Christmas gift a year's Magazine subscription to each of the six oldest members of their organization.
In several of our wards the Presidency and Magazine Representatives have gone out in the interest of increased membership and the Magazine and have been more than successful.
In three years through these and other activities we have been able to raise our percentage from 21 per cent to 85 per cent, and we feel that it has been worth while.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
KEYNOTES TO SUCCESS
By Marcia K. Howells
One's best effort produces happiness, and usually makes for success. One Magazine agent traveled seventy-five miles in one day to visit three families and found them eager for the Magazine. Another took fruit and vegetables from those who could not pay cash. She also reported an exchange of work, such as washing or cleaning, for subscriptions.
Realizing the privilege of making friends and influencing other lives overcomes obstacles. "Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of Heaven."
Quoting from Magazine agents:
"You have to work enthusiastically, efficiently, and unselfishly."
"This year I obtained three subscriptions that I have been working on for six years. It takes real perseverance and lots of walking. I am willing to go a long distance and spend a lot of time to get one subscription. I love the work."
"I've visited returned missionaries; in every case they were glad to send the Magazine to friends in the mission field."
From Alaska: "I received the sample copies of the Magazine. I loaned them and they did the work. I didn't care to be the only one in 'Uncle Sam's Attic' enjoying our wonderful Magazine."
One of the missions reports: "I have in mind a conference where some of the members have never had the opportunity of going to school and the Relief Society Magazine has been a God-send to them. They have learned to do much of their reading from it."
In the Australian Mission, where 337? per cent was obtained: "I wrote letters to members 1300 miles south and 1800 miles north." This representative reported one fourteen-year-old girl as subscribing for two aged people; also a fifteen-year-old investigator who purchased the Magazine for the Sidney Library in addition to her own subscription.
The Magazine has so many uses. It radiates the spirit of Relief Society and the spirit of the Gospel. Read the Magazine for its stimulating effect as well as for information and inspiration.
THE MAGAZINE IN THE MISSION
By Lewella R. Christiansen?Texas Mission
The Magazine is an effective aid in missionary work, especially in teaching women of the world the practical, cultural and spiritual sides of Mormonism. It is a real missionary. Sometimes women of other beliefs are hesitant to read the regular missionary tracts and pamphlets but are attracted by the poems, stories, lessons and articles of the Magazine. In this way the Gospel truths are presented in an indirect manner which makes an appeal, and a simple foundation is laid for the missionaries to build upon.
In one of the branches in Louisiana, we have a Sister whose husband is in the paper business and also mayor of the city. Recently she was asked to join some of the very fine clubs. She said to me, "I was asked to give a talk to my club and I found material for that talk in the Relief Society Magazine and was highly complimented. I also gave a talk at the P. T. A. Meeting, again taking the material from the same source."
The distribution of sample copies helped prepare the way for the organization of the Gonzales Relief Society. Realizing that there were a great many things in it that would build people, I wondered what was the best way to have everyone read it. So I outlined a program, to be given solely by Relief Society women at a Sunday service. The talks were short and well prepared and based on carefully selected articles from the Magazine. The program proved interesting and uplifting and acquainted those who listened with the rich content of the Magazine, besides giving the most timid women a chance to participate.
The Magazine has been used: as gifts for birthdays and Christmas, and to bring cheer to those who are numbered among the shut-ins. One can receive comfort and culture from the Magazine. I think the Lord inspires those who write the wonderful material found in it.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
Belle S. Spafford, Editor
In order to give both large and small wards equal opportunity to participate in the awards given at April Conference we are now dividing the wards into groups according to enrollment. There will be three groups, A, B, C.
Group A will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment of 100 or more.
Group B will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment of 50 to 99, inclusive.
Group C will include all wards or branches with a total enrollment up to 49.
To the four Ward or Branch Agents in each group obtaining the highest percentage, provided they have a minimum of 25 subscriptions, a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine will be presented at the Relief Society General Conference held in April.
To all Ward or Branch Agents not receiving a bound volume, who obtain subscriptions equal to 75 per cent or above of their net enrollment, provided such subscription lists contain a minimum of 25 names, a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine will be awarded. In case the Agent does not want the free subscription herself, it may be sent to some one designated by her.
Report Forms. New report forms for both wards and stakes will be sent to the stake representatives this year. We are indebted to Sister Christina V. Wilson of Bonneville Stake for suggesting these very fine forms. They are self-explanatory and must be very carefully filled out. Only stake reports should be returned to this office. Ward reports should be filled out and sent to the stake in sufficient time for the stake representative to compile and send her report to our office not later than November 10, 1938, otherwise wards cannot be included on the Honor Roll published in December nor receive free subscriptions.
Enrollment figures are based on active, honorary, and inactive enrollment. The enrollment as of January 1, 1938, will be used in figuring 1938 percentages. These figures must be identical with those given in the Secretaries' annual report.
Order Blanks. Send subscriptions on order blanks, furnished by our office. Writing should be legible. State the proper address of the individual to whom the Magazine is to be sent, the street number, if there is one, and the name of the town and the state. Please state the month when the subscription is to begin. Failure to do this often causes duplication, the subscriber receiving two numbers of one or more issues.
Receipts. Keep all receipts sent by this office. These are a check for us and for you in case of errors. Complaints must be made within two months in order to be rectified.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
Janet M. Thompson, Chairman
Great enthusiasm was manifested in the music program for the coming year 1938-1939. The response to the roll call indicated that there were very few stakes not represented. This was very gratifying and an index to the interest in improvement of music in the wards and stakes.
The chairman complimented the choristers on their devotion to the work and also gave suggestions which will prove helpful in future accomplishments.
A rallying song, "One Hundred Thousand Strong," composed by Mrs. Beatrice F. Stevens, a member of the Music Committee of the General Board, was sung by a double trio from Ensign Stake directed by Mrs. Ruth Jensen Clawson. It was enthusiastically received. This song was composed as a "rallying song" to assist in our membership drive.
Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett presented the new songs to be learned during the year, stressing tone, phrasing, proper posture and breathing, and the memorizing of the words. Some of the new songs were sung by a group of Singing Mothers.
Renewed enthusiasm for good music in our organizations was the keynote of the Music Department.
The list of songs with serial numbers are as follows:
SONGS TO BE LEARNED FOR AUGMENTED CHORUS OF SINGING MOTHERS
"O Morn of Beauty"?Sibelius?Ditson?14,715. "O Bread of Life"?Cesar Franck?Ditson?13,651. "Sanctus"?Gounod?Boston?734. "Hail, Thou Star Resplendent"?Grieg?Ditson?12,411. "The Lord's Prayer"?Gates?672 North 1st West, Salt Lake City.
SUGGESTIVE SONGS FOR USE IN THE STAKES
"By the Bend of the River"?Edwards?Schirmer?7,526. "In the Time of Roses"?Reichardt?Ditson?11,804. "Annie Laurie"?Parks?1,410. "Dedication"?Franz?Boston?1,934.
CORRELATION OF MUSIC TO LESSON MATERIAL
By Rose D. Ostler
Humanity everywhere is athirst for music. It might justly be called a holy cause, requiring a spirit of consecration. The field from which to gather song and music material is as broad as the field of music itself. Relief Society songs and music soften, glorify and feed the souls of our sisters. They add charm, a melodious background, and create a spiritual setting for the lessons.
In preparing for the use of songs in Relief Society, various plans have been carried out in Union meeting. It is suggested that stake music directors read very carefully the lessons before Union meeting and confer with the various class leaders as to the objectives of their lessons and secure suggestions for songs. The ward chorister may also be asked to read the lessons and confer with her ward class leaders and aid in bringing in suggestions for music to Union meeting. New songs may be introduced at this meeting. Write the words of the song on a blackboard, play the song as the preliminary music. After it has been played through once or twice many spontaneously join in the singing.
Hymns are always appropriate for the opening song of every ward Relief Society meeting. Especially do hymns and sacred music vitalize and beautify Theological lessons. Hymns are a treasure house of spiritual truth and beauty.
The songs our mothers and grandmothers used to sing can bring a wealth of joy to the Work and Business meeting, echoing the past. We find sweet music in the songs of long ago. Besides these lovely family songs, we may use some written by our women. This would be a fitting place for their inspired contributions.
A special music program suggests itself for the Literary lessons. Characters and the historical period in which the book was written provide suggestions. New songs of various types, solos, ensemble numbers, both vocal and instrumental, furnish a wealth of music material which may be used in the music department.
Lessons portrayed in the form of a tableau accompanied by music are very effective. Songs of our country and songs of home are appropriate for the Social Service lessons.
A typed outline given out each month at Union meeting, might include material to build a background of music for the chorister as well as for the lessons. Current musical events of the various wards, stories of the hymns and of the composers are interesting.
The calling of the chorister is a sacred one. To her falls the joy of bringing correlation of lesson and song, and of bringing the beauty that testifies to the reality of the spiritual life.
SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT
Amy W. Evans, Chairman
President Louise Y. Robison was the first speaker in this department meeting. She briefly discussed the subject, "The Relief Society and Child Welfare," a subject very dear to her heart. The Relief Society has always given very special attention to child welfare in its study program and in its activities, stressing the Word of Wisdom, cooperating extensively with state and federal agencies in carrying forth the work. She concluded with an earnest appeal for women to put forth every effort in setting higher standards for this work.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
NUTRITION AND ITS RELATION TO CHILD WELFARE
By Dr. William McKay
As public health workers we are delighted to know that the mothers are devoting so much of their activities to the study and solution of vital health problems. By giving place on your program to the subject of nutrition and child welfare, I think I can safely assume that you, as representatives of the Social Welfare Department of the Relief Society of the Church, are convinced that throughout our state there is ample evidence among our children of the lack of proper nutrition. A study of the reports of the many health agencies and dental clinics showing the numbers of physical defects, the prevalence of malnutrition, and the very high percentage of our child population with carious teeth should be sufficient to convince anyone that education on the subject of nutrition is urgently needed.
The first question which naturally arises in our minds is, "What is the meaning of the word nutrition?" One of the best definitions I have found is that given by Sir Robert McCarrison who defined nutrition as the fundamental function on which the condition of the body, that is to say, health depends. It is not merely food, nor that which nourishes. Food is the instrument of nourishment, nutrition is the act of using it?the series of coordinated processes whereby the nourishment of the body is effected. A primary purpose of the function of nutrition is: thus, to establish and to sustain the structure and function of all organs and parts of the body?to keep, in short, the mechanisms of the body in perfect running order.
Since body development and function begin months before that body is born into the world it is of the greatest importance that our expectant mothers have a clear understanding of the importance of diet during pregnancy. Sherman of Columbia University has shown the very marked physical differences in the offspring from mothers afforded an adequate diet as compared with the offspring of mothers with an inadequate diet. Sound healthy bodies with strong, well built bones, and teeth are the birthright of every child. The foundation for these is laid long before the child is born. Every expectant mother develops a mental image of the sort of boy or girl she would like to bear. Naturally, she hopes, and may I say?prays, that her child will be strong, sturdy, well shaped, of sound frame and have beautiful teeth. Not every mother realizes that the care she takes of herself during pregnancy to ensure a safe delivery is also a vital part of the planning necessary for sound bones and teeth. Regulated diets, under competent medical supervision, mean sufficient quantities of all the essential elements needed for proper growth and development of the body and the proper formation and calcifying of the teeth and bones. Systematic schedules of rest, sleep, exercise, and fresh air are essential for the mother, and these in turn play a part in the development of the expected child. If we accept the report of our dentists that fewer than twenty-five per cent of our children have sound teeth, I feel sure that this number might be greatly increased, if our expectant mothers realized that the formation of their babies' permanent teeth begins as early as the fourth month of fetal life.
The problem of adequate nutrition becomes even more complex after birth. If the mother elects to nurse her baby and has an adequate supply of milk which the child can tolerate, the problem for the first few months is comparatively simple. She must not, however, forget the importance of the protective elements found in cod liver oil, orange and tomato juices. Felding, a German investigator, reports that of 86,000 infants in Germany in 1935 who died before reaching one year of age, one-half succumbed to dietary disturbances, caused in very many instances by lack of breast feeding.
The importance of diet as the child develops is aptly expressed by Dr. W. McKim Marriott: "As the pediatrician deals with the body during the growing period, he may be compared with the builder of edifices; the internist and surgeon with the repair men. Given a solidly constructed structure, it will last well, and the minimum of repair work will be required. We cannot alter the general plans of the architect, but we can see that the proper materials go into the construction. Two buildings of the same size, and outward appearance may differ greatly, depending upon the care taken in construction; the one may approach perfection in structure and wear well, the other, because of the use of poor materials will not withstand wear and tear. It is so with the child's body; the architectural plan of nature may be excellent, but with skimping on materials a poor structure may result."
Adequate nutrition implies far more than the attainment and maintenance of a certain body size and weight or a certain thickness of adipose tissue. A child may be of average stature for the age and have an average height-weight ratio, yet, the nutrition cannot be considered as satisfactory if the child is anemic, has weak, flabby muscles, poor posture, carious teeth, has but little resistance to infection, and is incapable of sustained physical or mental effort. The growing body must be supplied with necessary building materials to perfect its structure and to provide adequately for functional activity. If the total fuel or caloric value of the food is inadequate to provide for the energy exchange, the laying down of body tissues is of necessity interfered with, or else tissues already formed are destroyed to meet the energy demands.
What are the materials necessary for proper and adequate nutrition? They are oxygen, water, and the digestion products of proteins, fats, carbohydrates, mineral elements and vitamins. These may be derived from the following food stuffs:
(1) A good whole-cereal grain or mixture of whole-cereal grains or a good whole-meal bread. (2) Milk and the products of milk?butter, cheese, buttermilk, etc. (3) Eggs. (4) Green leaf vegetables. (5) Root vegetables such as potatoes, carrots, etc. (6) Legumes?such as peas, beans, etc. (7) Fruit. (8) Meat. (9) Water.
That these provide all elements and vitamins needed for normal nutrition is evident from the fact that they are the ingredients of the national diets of certain races of northern India whose physique and health, when they make use of their national diets in their entirety, are unsurpassed by any other races of mankind.
Detailed information on adequate diets as well as suggestions on how to make them appetizing to children can be secured from circulars and pamphlets furnished by our own State Board of Health as well as by the U. S. Public Health Service and Department of Agriculture.
The appetite serves, in general, as a good guide to the total amount of food needed, and providing a suitable dietary mixture is offered there is little danger of under or overfeeding when the amount of food taken is regulated by the appetite of a normal infant or child. Normal infants and children, given all they wish to eat of a well balanced diet, are not likely to become overnourished.
It is often stated that the instinct serves as a fairly reliable guide in the selection of foods, and examples are cited of primitive people with no knowledge of nutrition who instinctively choose well balanced diets and even of young children who, given free selection, choose diets which meet their nutritional requirements. While in general the instinct may lead the individual to select a complete diet this cannot always be relied upon. In most families, mothers must be constantly on the alert if every child in the family receives an adequate supply of all the necessary elements of a balanced diet.
When President Brigham Young said, "This is the place," he probably little realized that the land of Deseret could be made to produce every necessary nutritional element for his people. That being true, it is a reflection on our intelligence when we must admit that there are large groups of children in almost every community in the state suffering from some degree of malnutrition. It is an interesting fact that children in many of our rural and farming areas are actually malnourished from the lack of milk and vegetables. Then too, we must not overlook the economic factor in our present social set-up. It is tragic, but true, that in many of our poorer homes, the diet consists almost wholly of bread and potatoes. Under a proper functioning of our Church Security program such conditions ought not to exist.
The problem of proper nutrition of our children resolves itself largely into one of education. I know of no organization which, in cooperation with our state and local health agencies, is in a better position or better qualified to carry on such an educational program than the Relief Society of the Church! What greater objective could any relief organization have than the development of generations of normal, well developed, healthy children? While spiritual growth is not dependent upon proper physical development, I feel sincerely that the Creator intended that His children should be physically sound and well in order that they might be mentally and spiritually strong.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ADEQUATE PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT?ITS RELATION TO CHILD WELFARE
By Ora W. Chipman
"For every child understanding and the guarding of his personality as his most precious right."?The Children's Charter.
One of the major objectives in the field of child welfare is that of attempting to secure for every child the development of a personality and of a character capable of meeting every stress and strain of life with confidence and eventual happiness?a personality which will enable him to realize his highest possibilities.
A good concept of personality was submitted at the White House Conference by Dr. Bronson Crothers, who defined it as, "the individual with all his emotional and intellectual peculiarities, trying to realize happiness and efficiency in the environment in which he lives."
Everyone, then, has personality; everyone?even he who seems to fail?is trying to create a successful life. The fortunate individual with the healthful mental attitudes of an adequate personality will succeed.
It is now the belief of many psychologists that adult behavior is the direct result of seeds of behavior planted in early childhood. The opinion of experts at the White House Conference was that factors that distort personality development exercise their greatest effects during the first six or seven years of life, and that those are the best years for development of desirable character traits and for modification of undesirable traits already established.
It has been estimated by authorities that there is a vast number of mentally ill people, not under treatment, who are suffering from serious but wholly avoidable distortions of personality probably caused by faulty training in childhood. There are, also, vast numbers of children who are seriously delinquent and of children and adolescents who are inmates of mental hospitals. One child out of every three is considered by child welfare representatives at the White House Conference to have personality difficulties which are serious enough to require the attention of a psychiatrist. These estimates help us to realize the significance of the development of healthful mental attitudes in childhood.
Conclusions from surveys to discover qualities generally considered as attributes of an attractive personality indicate that the most outstanding are: attractive physical appearance, intelligence, pleasing temperament, and sound character. Of these temperament and character are the most important. It is a common belief that temperament is inherited, but it now seems probable that this assumption is incorrect. "Temperamental reactions are learned habits formed in the early years. Much of the fundamental nature of temperament has been determined by the end of the first three years." The child's temperament consists of his attitudes toward the various phases of life. These attitudes are developed, not born. "Children who are gloomy or optimistic, suspicious or trustful, timid or courageous, loving or hateful, have been taught these modes of feeling, or they have stumbled into them, for these characteristics are not inherent in child nature." Regarding character much has been written and detail will be unnecessary here. The most admirable

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
and most successful characters seem to be based on attitudes of love and trust both in a supreme being and in fellow man. Fundamental also is faith in their own ability to live happy useful lives. But even these characteristics are implanted in early childhood.
Diverging from the positive values of character let us consider some of the most outstanding pitfalls into which children drift and often remain with consequent damage to their personalities. Some of these are excessive modesty, suspiciousness, bashfulness, withdrawing into one's self, desire to play alone, constant whining, fears, day dreaming, demands for attention, sensitiveness, sulkiness, and anger. Of these fear and anger seem to be most damaging. Fear has played such an important part in breaking down personality that eminent students of mental health speak of it as the "chaos of fear," and the "bogey of fear." Many fears are in the subconscious,
347
influencing lives without the conscious knowledge of the person. It probably produces more unhappiness and more abnormalities than any other known cause. It can be overcome by proper treatment. A fear carefully examined usually disappears. A fear should be replaced with a situation which a child can meet with confidence, keeping his faith in God and restoring his faith in himself. We should provide in our training for the formation of the habit of facing difficulties now and practically, for the need of constructive work, and for habits of normal reaction to feeling?or healthful emotions.
It is our aim in child welfare work to help mothers lay the foundations for these healthful mental attitudes of normal buoyant personalities equipped to develop the greatest possibilities of life. The more we learn of the exact science of creating adequate well integrated personalities in our children the more progress we make, the happier we help to make the lives of generations now and to come.
First General Session
WHO'S WHO IN RELIEF SOCIETY IN 1937
By Ida Petersen Beal
A golden opportunity is ours to draw to your attention the Who's Who in Relief Society for the year 1937. Ten Magazine agents have "gone over the top" in securing the highest percentage of subscriptions. We wish to thank all our Magazine Agents who have been so earnest in their efforts. These splendid women have worked so faithfully, unmindful many times of their own physical discomfort, and we see them and their labor as a bright background for our Who's Who today.

The women who rate as our Who's Who come from many sections of the United States, and one from faroff Australia, which they say "lies under the world." Naturally we ask, "How did they do it?" What was their equipment? Some few items are listed which have helped materially in their success. When on duty, they were prepared; pencil, paper for accuracy, reinforced with prayer, purpose, personality, and perseverance. They translated an ideal into a purpose and
348
they have brought honor to our beloved organization. So in behalf of the Relief Society it is a pleasure to present each of these ten women, with a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine for 1937 in recognition of their achievement. The names of our winners are as follows:
1.?Hurstville Branch        Violet Cook
2.?Worland Branch          Clara Gheen
3.?Milo Branch             Lila Gildea
4.?Cody Big Horn           Zelda Moore
5.?Elko Nevada             Claris Cameron
6.?Basin Big Horn          Lova Kinghorn
7.?La Grande First Union   Emma Stringham
8.?Pittsburg Australian Mission   Gwen R. Wrathall
9.?McGill Nevada           Louisa Johnson
10.?Eighth Ogden           Alta H. Poulson
Big Horn Mission
North Idaho Falls
Eastern States Mission
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ADDRESS
By Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon
As I have reviewed the Relief Society in the ninety-six years of its existence, I have come to the conclusion that it is the greatest welfare organization of women in the world. I know of no other with the number of members and engaged in the same field which is doing such splendid volunteer welfare work and performing other activities as efficiently as is this organization.

I have here a brief statement prepared under the direction of the General Presidency of Relief Society, not entirely complete, of what was done in a general way in cooperation with the Church Security program last year in 99 out of 118 stakes. I will take time enough to read it: Number of Quilts made, 4,097; Number of New Articles of Clothing Made, 8,452; Number of Articles of Clothing Remodeled, 15,808; Number of Quarts of Fruit Canned, 102,803; Number of Quarts of Vegetables Canned, 134,585; Number of Pounds of Fruit Dried, 42,205; Number of Pounds of Vegetables Dried, 4,479; Number of Families Taught to Put Up Their Own Food Supplies, 3,301; Number of Families Taught to Do Their Own Sewing, 2,293; Number of Women Given Work Relief in Canning Centers, 2,027; Total Number of Days of Work Relief in Canning, Sewing and Other Centers, 40,850; Number of Women Given Work Relief in Canning, Sewing and Other Centers, 3,997; Number of Women Who Have Given Volunteer Service in Canning, Sewing or Other Projects, 14,319.
The volunteer service was given by women who are largely engaged in their own households, but who also work in Relief Society as officers and teachers, finding time to give much service for the benefit and blessing of others. In addition thereto, the Relief Society has collected and has disbursed for relief in cash donations last year $67,632.00. To me this is a very remarkable statement. When the report is entirely complete it will doubtless show about 16% more.
In my experience of twenty-one years while in the Stake Presidency, and approximately thirteen years in the Presiding Bishopric, Relief Society officers and teachers have shown themselves to be among the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
most active and dependable workers in the Church.
A question has been presented to me which I have been requested to answer. The question is: "The Relief Society has been given the responsibility of making investigations, and finding the needs of the families. When this is done and the report given to the Bishop, and he ignores the report and says the family doesn't need the help suggested, what is the Relief Society President to do?"
To answer that properly I should like to present it to the particular Bishop concerned. But I will say that all should appreciate the importance, as they have been requested to do, of having the Relief Society officers who are trained in the essentials of social service, investigate for them all cases who desire relief, and recommend the necessary help. Also they should have the Relief Society administer the relief under their direction.
The Bishoprics have a great variety of responsibilities. Besides, they do not have the facilities at hand to investigate for themselves. To conserve their time, and to employ the means available through the Relief Society Social Service, this work will be more effectually done. Except in very urgent cases the Bishopric should not expend money for relief on any cases without having the investigation and the recommendation by the Relief Society officers. If that is done I am sure that in every case greater justice and fairness will be shown.
There are people who will try to take advantage of the Church. I had a telegram from the Branch President of one of the Eastern cities only yesterday, in which a man who had just arrived from the West, asked for relief upon his arrival there. How could he travel all the way to that Eastern city and then have
349
spent all his money and be in need of help? There may be conditions where people might be short of means temporarily. But for people to travel across the continent and ask for help immediately upon their arrival, looks rather suspicious. It is rather surprising to me. It happened that we had in our office a reliable report from California that this man had been for years going from ward to ward begging from various Bishops, depending on the Church, without doing anything in return. We suggested if he were able to get to Washington he should find a way to get back to his home, that we do not encourage those in need to travel from place to place. They should remain in their own communities, because there they have established residence, and they are entitled to help either from the County, Government or Church where necessary. But when they come as strangers, it is not fair that they should call upon the Church organizations for help; and they certainly cannot get it from the Government or County relief sources.
The Relief Society Social Service workers are trained in the essentials of social welfare. They are generally women of mature experience, possessed of the spirit of kindness, sympathy and good judgment. When they make a report to the Bishop as to whether or not any families need help, I feel, and I have told the Bishops, it should be their pleasure to accept the Relief Society recommendations. The Relief Society is generally better able to get at the real conditions and to distribute relief fairly and sympathetically. If the Bishop refuses to do that, I can only say the Bishop, under the revelation of the Lord, is the judge in Israel and he must be responsible. As a judge, he should accept the information about what is needed by those
350
who are competent to advise, and he should rightly approve their recommendations.
We are so concerned to see that the Bishoprics avail themselves of the fine social service of the Relief Society in properly determining and caring for the needs of members in distress, that we shall call this important matter again to their prompt attention.
I need not say how important it is to try and bring about conditions which will enable the people who are on relief to obtain employment. It seems there are some conditions prevailing at present throughout the nation which are interfering with economic improvement, and the employment that should be available. There are many factors which appear to be favorable toward increased industrial activity throughout the nation. We must all realize that the way to increase employment must come through fostering private industry. Yet we must take conditions as they are and try to make the best of them by promoting employment and furnishing relief wherever necessary among the members of the Church.
I would like to say a few words about what I think the women of Relief Society can do. This proposition of developing handcraft is one that will offer possibilities. For example, in one of the hotels in this city, the draperies for the windows were woven and made in a little backwoods section of West Virginia by a group of women in that locality. There is much in the nature of handicraft being fostered by Relief Society that may develop into very worth while industries, and there are many more, as suggested by Director Peterson, that can be promoted throughout this State.
Another thing I would like to mention is the importance of civic and home improvements. By advancing cleanliness and neatness and by tree
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
planting and all of those things that help to beautify, homes and communities are made much more attractive. In the early days, if you drove through Davis and some parts of Utah Counties, you would find a lot of very beautiful evergreen trees, junipers, pines, firs and others of the evergreen type, and also evergreen shrubbery. They give a greenness and life to our communities in the winter. If we plant some evergreens by the sides and as a background to the houses throughout our communities, it gives life, greenness and beauty and adds much to our surroundings.
In the communities as a whole there is the matter of improving home surroundings. I noticed throughout California that if they cannot afford paint, they will at least whitewash their out-buildings and fences. This is very much worth while. It costs so little to get a little whitewash for these buildings, and it gives a neatness that cannot be obtained otherwise. Of course, good paint is still better in appearance and as a protection for wood.
There is a statement made by President Brigham Young in this connection. Speaking to the women of the Church in early days he said: "It is your right, wives, to ask your husbands to set out beautiful shade and fruit trees, and to get you some vines and flowers with which to adorn the outside of your dwellings; and if your husbands have not time, get them yourselves and plant them out. Some, perhaps, will say, 'O, I have nothing but a log house, and it is not worth that.' Yes, it is worth it. Whitewash and plaster it up, and get vines to run over the door, so that everybody who passes will say, 'What a lovely little cottage!'"
This advice is just as applicable today as it was then. May I suggest to you mothers,
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
that after all, the greatest responsibility which rests upon you and your husbands is the training of your children, the greatest resource we have in this state and nation and in this Church?the training of young people to resist vice and immorality, to resist the temptations which will interfere with their progress. Temperance, clean living, and morality are the strong points in the building of character. In connection with the Spirit of the Lord they will help our young people to grow in righteousness. We are in the world, but we are not of the world. We have to meet these temptations,
351
but let us train our children to learn to resist them. We cannot hide or conceal vices, but we can advise, counsel and train our children so that they will have the power in themselves to resist such temptations as they are bound to meet in life.
The addresses by Director William Peterson of Utah Agricultural College, and Henry D. Moyle, Chairman of General Church Security Committee, will appear in a later issue of the Magazine.
Second General Session
The following are organizations and reorganizations since October Conference.
ORGANIZATIONS
Date                    Stake             Appointed President
February, 1938         Mount Graham      Ethel D. Payne
                      (Divided from St. Joseph)
February, 1938         Phoenix           Elnora Shupe
                      (Divided from Maricopa)
January, 1938          Smithfield        Annie M. Farr
                      (Divided from Benson)

REORGANIZATIONS
Date        Stake         Released          Appointed President
Jan. 1938   Benson        Annie M. Farr     Lula E. Johnson
Feb. 1938   Summit        Myrtle Richens    Katherine M. Judd
East German Mission?Ida D. Rees
West German Mission?Susan G. Kelly
Swiss-Austrian Mission?Fawn B. McKay
Dec. 1937   Big Horn      Hazel N. Boyack   Mary Davis
Feb. 1938   Maricopa      Elnora Shupe      Ella T. Lee
Feb. 1938   St. Joseph    Ethel D. Payne    Martha Westenskow
Jan. 1938   Union         Fay H. Harris     Ellen S. Bean
352                    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
STANDARDS OF LIVING
By Counselor Kate M. Barker
Today when there is so much revolt against old orders, many of the standards which we thought were fixed and stable are being lowered. Some youth are asking, "Can one succeed in a business way, and be honest?" Someone must carry these banners forward.
There are certain standards of living which are basic to which we must adhere. The future depends on the willingness of today's leadership to carry these banners, and to awaken and arouse youth. It is not resources we lack, either material or human. It is the will to be and to lead. Surely our Father in Heaven has the right to expect that the members of His Church will assume this leadership. "For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required."
In our country we have mass civilization, schools, libraries, science in service for all, and we are now talking of security for all. No amount of emphasis upon education, opportunity or security can obscure the basic necessity of the fundamental qualities of honesty, loyalty, industry, cooperation, absolute integrity of mind and heart. Culture is only a veneer unless there is this integrity of heart. This must be built in the homes.
But most people are spiritually lazy. It is easy to send a child to school to learn history, etc., but it takes time to watch the child in his play and all the acts of everyday life to see that he plays fair, that he is loyal to what he knows is right, that he is learning to cooperate, to get down to hard work and to do his work thoroughly. The same characteristics that are developed in little things will carry over to the bigger things of life.
We must build such a sensitiveness to truth and beauty that anything that is false or vulgar is repulsive. This is our only safety. We want our boys and girls to fulfill fine missions. These must be planned for. The Gospel is truth and beauty, and unless a person is fundamentally honest and clean he will not appreciate the real beauty of the Gospel. We cannot have moral integrity without mental honesty.
We must learn to think; we must not pick up an opinion here and a carelessly thrown scrap of information there, or fill our minds with ready-made statements and imagine we know how to think. The world needs straight and honest thinking.

There is no doubt that the world is progressing in social thinking?relief for the needy, make-work for the unemployed, old age assistance. But this type of civilization calls for a higher type of individual?higher in those fundamental qualities of honesty, industry and cooperation. These projects are for those who need. Any attempt on the part of parents and grandparents to evade the law by taking what is not absolutely needed, by not giving an honest day's work, by concealing their property or turning it over to children, is dishonesty. It cannot be concealed from the children and grandchildren.
Standards are not lowered suddenly. A certain mental attitude is developed in a few, and unless counteracted by the active influence of the majority, develops slowly into a general lowering of standards, a generalized mode of thinking. A definite, positive effort must be made to counteract this growing tendency of wanting something for
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
nothing, of doing only enough to get by. Think of the mothers, to say nothing of the youth of the next generation, depending on our success in maintaining a high standard of integrity.
SOCIAL ETHICS
General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund
The term social must be understood in its first meaning?companionship or mutual relationships with others of one's kind; group life in other words. Ethics is the science which deals with conduct in so far as it is considered right or wrong, good or bad. In group life there must be organization and effort. This subject, naturally, has a great appeal for Relief Society as it emphasizes the ideal of the organization, the animating spirit of our Church and the spirit of sisterhood, to be willing to serve each other and share burdens and privileges, and to develop the spirit of self-help so vital to success in life.
We stand today facing one of the great crises of the world. We need clear thinking, great courage, firm faith to guide us. Our heritage is one of traditions which have been developed through a study of the past.
We must teach them to realize that liberty is a great ethical ideal, and cannot exist without justice, and the highest aim of justice is the protection of liberty, which always must depend upon self-discipline and self-control.
As we regard the world today, deep gratitude fills our hearts for this land of "choice above all other lands," where we live under the finest pronouncement of social ethics ever to be given of a government, guaranteed under the Constitution of the United States. During the current year we have witnessed great epic in history, Lewis and Clark, and William Clark, that daring woman Sacajawea, have told the heart and soul of America's story.

Of all the civilizing agencies of the human family, the Bible is therefore the greatest treasure house of social ethics. Our art, literature and music, laws and government, our family and
354
community life, the mold of our civilization and all that it implies are shaped by this greatest contribution from the ancient to the modern world. From beginning to end it is full of priceless stories and examples of all our highest ideals. We know that the New Testament is the most ethical book ever given to the world. It is the source of the only perfect social order. Every miracle performed, every parable uttered is a perfect example of applied social ethics. True neighborliness and brotherhood were the cornerstones of Christ's teaching. This is one way of expressing the great value of every human personality which is so precious in the sight of our Father in Heaven. "If you love me, feed my sheep." Is this after all not the source of all good manners?the very flower of our civilization? What we need is more application of the principles in our daily life. Historic and spiritual examples are of no value unless we can use them in solving our problems. A very RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE beautiful and a very useful lesson is expressed in The Log Cabin Lady. It was an eloquent plea for appreciation of the real values in life, yet it called attention to many of our shortcomings and demonstrated how one may be just as manly and just as womanly and yet pay due respect to the refinements of life. This is not a reverent age and lack of reverence often leads to a Jack of courtesy. I believe we are all shocked at times by the lack of respect shown to elderly people, to women, and oh, so often to things which others hold sacred. These offenses against good manners just couldn't happen if we applied the rule of conduct given by the greatest Teacher who ever lived. If we exercised the same care in public buildings and places of worship that we do in our own highly prized homes, the vandalism so common, would be abolished. If we could only live the two laws upon which hang, "all the law and the Gospel,' we would insure the observance of a perfect system of social ethics as well as realize fullest spiritual development. ADDRESS By President Louise Y. Robison REVIEWING the activities of Relief Society during the past six months, one is amazed at the amount of work which has been accomplished by the members of the organization. In many avenues of service women are endeavoring to raise life to its highest level. Spiritual security is found only in action, which like the plane's onward motion is necessary to preserve buoyancy and balance. In understanding, in love, in usefulness, the opportunities for service are boundless. Spiritual and intellectual development are given to Relief Society members in the meetings held each week. Here lessons are studied in Theology, Literature, Social Service or Child Guidance, and household arts are taught. Rich experience comes to 1,918 class leaders who prepare lessons each week, and faith is strengthened through the opportunity of bearing testimony. At these meetings the Relief Society Singing Mothers are a source of real pleasure, bringing a spiritual as well as a cultural influence to the group. Visiting Teachers are also a RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE mighty force for good. Their labors never cease, summer or winter; whatever the weather the work goes on. It would be interesting if we could compute the miles and miles these sisters walk each year in performing their service of love. Aid to the Bishops in caring for the sick and needy, especially in rehabilitating families, has been one of the Society's outstanding activities. What tact, what love and patience are required to understand the heartaches and sorrows of those whose load is too heavy to be borne alone. In order to do all in our power to strengthen Church Security, an industry, under the name of Mormon Handicraft, has been established. Thousands of dollars have gone into homes from this enterprise to supplement family incomes. The Bread-making Project has been helpful. Hundreds of demonstrations have been given and reports of the interest revived in this important household art has been most gratifying. Improved methods of laundering have created great interest. The skill in remodeling used clothing has been developed to a stage of perfection that is truly amazing. Cooperating with the State Board of Health, Relief Society women have assisted in holding clinics, and much remedial work has been accomplished. The Magazine drive which closed in November was _ outstanding. While the Australian Mission carried off the laurels with 338% subscriptions in the Hurstville Branch, we remember with gratitude each Magazine Agent for the excellent service to Relief Society. Even if the goal of 100% was not always reached, the fine missionary work accomplished in wards and branches was of great worth. Relief Society work is not confined 355 to the United States alone. Lessons are given in many tongues, but the spirit of the work is the same. Our records show that 18,290 days were spent with: the sick and lonely since last Conference. These were not leisure hours. Home work was not neglected, but women testify in all seriousness that they are given added strength when in service to humanity. Has not our Father in Heaven always lifted our burdens to the extent that we have diligently sought Him? Although Relief Society has accomplished much, there is still the call for service. As long as there are ill, malnourished children, as long as there are poorly managed homes,' as long as there are lonely hearts and people who have lost faith in God, there is work for women of Relief Society. Would we have the power to do these things? The secret of power lies in willing obedience to the small requirements, the things we sometimes feel are too insignificant. The burden of the Savior's message, when He dwelt among men, was, "I do not mine own will but the will of my Father that sent me." Could any principle of the Gospel or any advice given by the Prophet of God for our good be too simple to win our attention? At heart we are all religious but following our own ideas or desires often deprives us of great blessings. If we could only realize that the things the Gospel stands for are the things of most value in life! Do human beings ever get so much on a small investment as on the little actually invested in willing obedience to the word of the Lord? This is the simple cost of spiritual power. More than anything else, our world needs spirituality. Multitudes have lost faith and vision and courage. These are inside values. They are qualities of the spirit. 356 How can Relief Society women help to restore this spirituality? How can they develop such faith as the Centurion exhibited when he asked the Lord, Jesus Christ, to heal his servant? He said, "Speak the word only and my servant shall be healed." We have two avenues given to us in which to use our influence, the home and the community. We have been given the injunction, "'to correct the morals and strengthen the virtues of community life". To develop faith in our homes we should have cleanliness, order, industry, and love. We should establish the practice of family prayer, keep the Sabbath day holy, and cheerfully perform acts of kindness for our families. The Relief Society Home Scriptural Reading Project offers subject matter for spiritual development. How many of our children know the names of the Church Authorities and the offices they hold? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE How many read the Book of Mormon and know how it was given to us, the Articles of Faith? Are children taught to take care of their bodies and that health depends very largely on what one eats? In community life we can lead in reverence for houses of worship, respect for public property, health through cooperation with county nurses. Conduct depends largely upon health, and health upon the food one eats. In our Membership Campaign the best way to get new members is to show by our lives that Relief Society is a benefit to us. I count it an asset to be a member of Relief Society. One's strength is in the righteousness of the cause, the worthiness of its purpose, the nobility of the work. They nerve us for effort, sustain in defeat, inspire to further endeavor. The Gospel gives us the power of patience, endurance in the long wait and assurance of final victory.

GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
STAKE, WARD AND MISSION REPORTS
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1937
Julia A. F. Lund?General Secretary

Balance Cash on Hand January 1, 1937:
Charity Fund........................$ 51,620.83
General Fund........................ 106,949.66
Wheat Trust Fund.................... 6,260.91
Stake Board Funds................... 40,211.51

Total Cash Receipts:
Charity Fund........................$ 78,839.50
General Fund:
    Contributions....................$101,957.49
    Annual Dues..................... 25,992.46
    Other Receipts.................. 57,952.39
    Total General Fund Receipts..... $185,902.34
Stake Board Receipts................ 59,129.36

Total Cash Receipts.................$323,871.20
Total Cash to Account For...........$528,914.11

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE                           357

Cash Disbursements:
Charity Paid........................$ 67,632.09
General Fund:
    General Expenses................$124,670.57
    Annual Dues..................... 27,707.17
    Other Disbursements............. 25,377.26
    Total General Fund Disbursements $177,755.00
Wheat Trust Fund.................... 2,061.40
Stake Board Disbursements........... 57,918.97

Total Cash Disbursements...........$305,367.46

Balance Cash on Hand December 31, 1937:
Charity Fund........................$ 62,828.24
General Fund........................ 115,097.36
Wheat Trust Fund.................... 4,199.51
Stake Board Funds................... 41,421.90

Total...............................$223,546.65

Merchandise Received................$ 20,688.94
Merchandise Disbursed............... 15,169.95
Balance on Hand....................$ 5,518.99

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
STAKE, WARD AND MISSION REPORTS
DECEMBER 31, 1937

ASSETS
Cash on Hand, All Funds.............$ 223,547.43
Cash on Hand, Presiding Bishop's Office.. 409,919.41
(Wheat Trust Fund)
Other Invested Funds................ 32,841.81
Total..............................$ 666,308.65

Real Estate and Buildings...........$ 161,033.46
Furniture and Fixtures.............. 91,077.51
Total..............................$ 252,110.97

Other Stake Board Assets............$ 64,734.79
Other Assets........................ 36,173.95
Total..............................$ 100,908.74

Total..............................$1,019,328.36

LIABILITIES
Indebtedness.......................$ 1,176.82
Stake Board Net Assets.............. 105,857.51
Balance, Net Assets................. 912,294.03

Total..............................$1,019,328.36

STATISTICS
Membership:
January 1, 1937:
Executive and Special Officers....... 15,711
Visiting Teachers................... 24,860
Other Members....................... 32,491
Total Membership January 1, 1937..... 73,062

Increase:
Admitted to Membership During Year... 10,341
Total Membership and Increase........ 83,403

Decrease:
Removed or Resigned................. 7,415
Died............................... 924

358                    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Membership:
December 31, 1937:
Executive and Special Officers....... 16,026
Visiting Teachers................... 25,486
Other Members....................... 33,552
Total Membership December 31, 1937... 75,064

The Total Membership Includes:
General Officers and Board Members... 23
Stake Officers and Board Members..... 1,372
Mission Presidents and Officers...... 156

Number of Stakes.................... 118
Number of Missions.................. 32
Number of Relief Society Ward and Branch Organizations... 1,918
Number of Visiting Teachers' Districts... 14,296
Number of L. D. S. Families in Wards... 149,851
Number of Relief Society Magazines Taken... 41,721
Number of Executive Officers Taking Relief Society Magazine... 6,321
Number of Meetings Held in Wards.... 65,001
Number of Stake Meetings Held....... 2,377
Number of Stake and Ward Officers' (Union) Meetings Held... 1,250
Number of Ward Conferences Held..... 1,499
Average Attendance at Ward Meetings.. 31,203
Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers... 991,623
Number of Families Helped........... 16,185
Number of Days Spent with the Sick... 36,477
Number of Special Visits to the Sick and Homebound... 204,125
Number of Bodies Prepared for Burial... 1,663
Number of Visits to Wards by Stake Officers... 7,595

COMPARATIVE FIGURES FROM RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS
                                    1935      1936      1937
Paid for Charitable Purposes.......$66,863.86 $67,189.48 $67,632.09
Total or Present Membership....... 72,093    73,062    75,064
No. Of Relief Society Organizations 1,744     1,782     1,918
No. Of Relief Society Magazines Taken 35,899  40,075    41,721
No. Of Days Spent with the Sick.... 43,996   39,929    36,477
No. Of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound 228,871 215,260 204,125
No. Of Families Helped............ 16,647   15,152    16,185
No. Of Visits by Relief Society Officers to Wards 6,113 6,690 7,595
No. Of Visits by Relief Society Visiting Teachers 994,261 986,687 991,623

DISTRIBUTION OF MEMBERSHIP OF RELIEF SOCIETY

Stakes                          Missions
Arizona........................ 2,711    Argentina.................. 200
California.................... 3,274    Australia.................. 191
Illinois...................... 238      Canada.................... 115
Canada........................ 1,379    Europe.................... 4,481
Colorado...................... 504      Hawaii.................... 644
Hawaii........................ 442      Mexico.................... 182
Idaho......................... 10,415   New Zealand............... 432
Mexico........................ 154      Samoa..................... 447
Nevada........................ 949      South Africa.............. 156
New York...................... 174      Tahiti.................... 265
Oregon........................ 180      Tonga..................... 177
Utah.......................... 39,007   United States............. 6,326
Wyoming....................... 2,023    
                                       Total Membership in Missions 13,616

Total Membership in Stakes........ 61,448

Total Membership in Stakes and Missions......... 75,064

(Note: In the foregoing report all funds are held and disbursed in the various Wards, with the exception of the Annual Membership Dues.)

L. D. S. Training Doesn't Cost?It Pays!

THE L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE IS DEDICATED TO THE SERVICE OF YOUTH

Your time is short! Your name and address on a card will bring full information.

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
70 North Main
Salt Lake City
Wasatch 1812

The School Of Efficient Instruction, Friendly Counsel, and Active Employment Service

A Word to the Bride

We are prepared, now, more than ever before, to supply you with the smartest and most modern wedding stationery. New styles, new types, new methods of treatment are constantly being developed to bring smartness and style to this feature of your great adventure. And prices are most reasonable. Call or write today.

The DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City
The leading printers in the West for Eighty Years

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

YOUTH is the time for vocational education?and the time is short!

The L. D. S. Business College is on a par with the best schools of its kind ANYWHERE AT ANY PRICE.

HAPPY DAYS AHEAD??

This happy scene of Mother and children is pleasant to see. Mother is serene in the knowledge that BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY makes certain the protection and care of her children in future days. Naturally, she wants them to have a good start in life, an education, and a chance. That's why she has laid the foundation for them with a BENEFICIAL policy.

Let us help plan the future of YOUR family. Call our nearest agent or write the home office now!

BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
HOME OFFICE?BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT

