HOME AFFAIRS.

	ELDER F. A. Mitchell and family recently re-
turned to their home in this city, from the
Sandwich Islands. Many friends warmly wel-
come them and are pleased to find them all in
good health.
	THE CHURCH Emigration fares for this sea-
son, the agent, C. W. Staines reports, will be
fifty-one dollars for each adult from New York
to Ogden, and about forty-three dollars from
Chicago to Ogden.
	BISHOP M. D. Hammond, of Providence,
who recently favored us with a call, says that
in Cache Valley the winter has been an unsu-
ally pleasant one. There has been excellent
sleighriding nearly all winter, without so much
snow as is common to that region, nor exces-
sive cold weather. The people of Providence
under the auspices of the United Order, have
purchased and own a good saw-mill, and intend
making a spcialty of the lumber business.
	THE BEST occasion for meeting friends and
looking upon familiar faces which we have
witnessed for a long time was at the Theatre
on the evening of the 22nd ult. The Firemen's
ball brought together representatives from all
parts of this city, as well as some from other
localities. The remark was frequently heard,
"Why everybody's here!" as friends after
friends were greeted. And "everybody" ap-
peared perfectly satisfied with the entire suc-
cess which accompanied the whole affair.
	GOVERNOR AXTELL, in a short, unpremedita-
ted speech before the people of Ogden, while
on a private visit to a friend of that city, ad-
vanced some ideas and opinions which might
be taken as a key to a noble and manly char-
acter. Instead of gentlemen and ladies, he pre-
ferred to address the citizens of Ogden as "men
women and children, because these are the
dearest words." He had always believed there
was no real antagonism between labor and
capital." For he looked "upon labor as the
locomotive and capital the force that puts it in
motion." He came to Utah to govern the
whole people not a section. He evinced him-
self to be not in the least afraid of criticism,
and said, "Men of character care not for criti-


cism favorable or unfavorable."  Many other
fine points occurred in the speech which met
with hearty and well deserved applause. 
	MANY NATIVE plants have been discovered
in the southern portion of this Territory; which
are described by Mr. Joseph E. Johnson of St.
George, as being new and beautiful.  He offers
to fill cash orders for plants and seeds of the
same, and in some cases will exchange for
greenhouse and garden plants.  People who are
actively interested in floral or botanical pur-
suits may increase the variety of their plants,
and will also find it advantageous in other re-
spects to communicate with Mr. Johnson up-
on this subject.  It is at least, worth while to
learn what may be produced within this
mountainous region before sending East for
flower seeds, &c.


