AN ANCIENT RELIC.

	Recently, at Rockford, Ill. a party of gentle-
men interested in the early history of America,
made an important discovery relating to the works
of the Mound Builders, the remains of which are
so abundant in the Mississippi Valley. Work was
commenced on a large mound about 32 feet in di-
ameter, and 8 feet in length. After four hours'
work in the heat and sun, the company were re-
warded by finding a smoothly-polished gympsum
tablet, covered on one side with very mysterious
characters, which were and still are as unintelligi-
ble to all the members of the party as Sancrit or
Lybian. The tablet is two inches wide, three and
one-fourth inches long, and one-fourth of an inch
thick. At the centre of the top is a curiously
wrought face, surrounded by what appears to be
rays of light; beneath, and running nearly to the
bottom, is an upright bar, supported by a cross-
bar; at the left upper corner is the form of a
coiled serpent; beneath this is a triangle, another
serpent, a lizard, and what appears to be a burning
taper. These figures stand in a line, one above
the other. In the right hand upper corner is a
character resembling the letter Z, and beneath this
one resemblins the letter U; next a dagger-shaped
character, under which is a fishes head; next an
elongation circular character, with a dot in the
center, and a continued stroke from the upper left
elongation; next under this are four bars crossing
each other at alternate angles; under this last fig-
ure, that of a well-formed fish, making fourteen
distinct figures in all. The edges are beveled and
traced. This relic was found about eight feet be-
low the surface of the mound, and directly under
it was found a number of spear points, stone axes,
or hammers, and various other relics, including what
appeared to be the remains of human bones. Two
other mounds were opened by the party, in which
human bones were found, but no relics as valuable
as the one described.—Burlington Gazette.


FIFTEEN hundred bushels of onions were
raised in Sunderland, Mass., last year.


AN old man named Atwood died recently
near Chesnut, England. He was a bachelor,
and rich, but lived very quietly. He is
discovered to have been the giver of £1,000
checks. His books show that he gave away
£350,000 in this way; £45,000 within the
last year. He has left more than a million
sterling, and no will.  Mr. Atwood is
said to have made his money principally by
glass. A £1,000 note was lying about the
room, as if it had been waste paper.


