HINTS ABOUT CHILDREN.
	CHILDREN'S NAPS.—When a child is old
enough it will usually cease to want a mid-
day nap. There is no especial age. Some
children require it longer than others. If it
interferes with good night sleep, then it is
time to break it up. There is no harm in
taking it after dinner.
	CHILDREN AND SUNSHINE.—Children
need sunshine quite as much as flowers do.
Half an hour is not enough. Several hours
are required. The most beautiful flowers
that ever studded a meadow could not be
made half so beautiful without days and
days of the glad light that streams through
space. Light for children. Sunshine for
the little elves that gladden this otherwise
gloomy earth, deal it out in generous full-
ness to them. Let the nursery be in the
sunshine. Better plant roses on the dark
side of an iceberg than rear babies and chil-
dren in rooms and alleys stinted of the light
that makes life.
	FRIGHTENING CHILDREN.—Nothing can
be worse for a child than to frighten it. The
effect of the scare is slow to recover from;
it remains sometimes until maturity, as is
shown by many instances of morbid sensi-
tiveness and excessive nervousness.
	Not unfrequently, fear is employed as a
means of discipline. Children are controlled
by being led to believe that something ter-
rible will happen to them; are punished by
being shut up in dark rooms, or by being
put in places they stand in dread of. No
one, without vivid memory of his own
childhood, without vivd memory of his own
childhood, can comprehend how entirely
cruel such things are. We have often heard
grown people tell of the suffering they have
endured as children, under like circumstan-
ces, and recount the irreparable injury which
they are sure they then received. No pa-
rent, no nurse, capable of alarming the
young, is fitted for her position. Children,
as near as possible, should be trained not to
know the sense of fear which, above every-
thing else is to be feared in their education
both early and late.
	DEAR SISTER RICHARDS.—Because of dis-
advantages we have not had a woman's
meeting in five months. So, like food to
one who is very hungry, the EXPONENT
comes to me. I hail it as the true woman's
advocate against slander. I learn from it
the spirit of the times, and am deeply in-
terested with its instructions on the rearing
of children, a subject sublime. After rear-
ing—in connection with my husband—a
large family of children, I can but glance at
the wisdom required for the task. Yet,
from experience, I think it wisdom to excite
the pride of a child by praising him or her
for truthfulness, little deeds of kindness,
etc. Also that punishment for a fault should
be lessend where truthfulness appears in fa-
vor of the child. Never exhibit a doubt of
the aptness of a child in learning, even if
it is stupid. Nor should we exhibit unbe-
lief when told of a wrong act, done by our
child, but teach it the principle of restora-
tion merited by guilt.
	A little son once said, "Ma, please give
me a pane of glass for Mrs. S—. I broke
one for her last night when we were play-
ing blind man's buff." Indulgence excited
his pride, and away he ran with the glass;
after which, the lady came to pay for it,
saying "It was not your boy who broke the
window, but the one he was in pursuit of."
Yet the little fellow felt that he had the
confidence of the lady, and all was right.
	Oxford, Feb.,1875.	M. A. BOICE.


