POST-MORTEM LOVE.

	Why is it that so many people keep all
their pleasant thoughts and kind words
about a man, bottled and sealed up until he
is dead, when they come and break the bot-
tle over his coffin, and bathe his shroud in
fragrance? Many a man goes through life
with scarcely one bright, cheering, encour-
aging, helpful word. He toils hard and in
humble obscurity. He gives out his life
freely and unstintedly for others. I remem-
ber such a man. He was not brilliant; he
was not great; but he was faithful. He had
many things to discourage him. Troubles
thickened about his life.  He was misrepre-
sented and misunderstood. Everybody be-
lieved that he was a good man, but no one
ever said a kind or pleasant thing to him.
He never heard a compliment, scarcely
ever a good wish. No one ever took any
pains to encourage him, to strengthen his
feeble knees, to lighten his burdens, or to
lift up his heart by a gentle deed of love,
or by a cheerful word. He was neglected.
Unkind things were often said of him.
	I stood at his coffin, and then there were
many tongues to speak his praise. There
was not a breath of aspersion in  the air.
Men spoke of self-denials—of his work
among the poor, of his good qualities, of his
quietness, of his modesty, his humility, his
pureness of heart, his faith and prayer.
There were many who spoke indignantly of
the charges  that falsehood had forged
against him in past years and of the treat-
ment he had receieved. There were enough
kind words said during the two or three
days that he lay in the coffin, and while the
company stood around his open grave, to
have blest him and made him happy all his
fifty years, and to have thrown sweetness
and joy about his soul during all his pained
and weary journey. There was enough sun-
shine wasted about the black coffin and
dark grave to have made his whole life-
path bright as clearest day. But his ears
were closed then, and he could not hear a
word that was spoken. His heart was still
then, and could not be thrilled by the great-
ful sounds. He cared nothing for the sweet
flowers that were piled upon his coffin. The
love blossomed out too late. The kindness
came when the life could not receive its
blessings.
	But meantime there is a great host of
weary men and women toiling through life
towards the grave, who need cheering
words and helping ministries. The in-
cense is gathering to scatter about their cof-
fins; but why should it not be scattered in
their paths to-day? The kind words are
lying in men's hearts and trembling on their
tongues, which will be spoken by-and-by
when these weary ones are sleeping; but
why should they not be spoken now, when
they need them so much, and when their
accents would be so pleasing and grateful?
	It costs but little to give men a deal of
joy and help. One brought a bunch of flow-
ers to my table, and for a whole week they
filled my room with fragrance. One wrote
me a cheering letter, breathing a spirit of
gratitude and love. It came when I was
weary and depressed, and was like a meal
prepared by the angel for the old prophet.
I went on in its blessed strength for many
days. One met me on the street and spoke
an encouraging word and  grasped me
warmly by the hand, and for hours I felt
that warm grasp and heard that word echo-
ing through my soul. A little child may
brighten scores of lives every day.  There
is not one of us who may not gladden and
strengthen many a heart between every

[Column 2
rising and setting sun. Why should we
not live to bless the living, to cheer the dis-
heartened, and to sweeten cups that are
bitter, to hold up the hands that hang down
to comfort those that mourn, to bear joy in-
to joyless homes? Kind words will not
spoil a man. If a sermon helps you, it will
do the preacher no harm to tell him so. If 
the editor writes an article that does you
good, he can write a still better one if you
send him a word of thanks. If a book
blesses you, do you not owe it to the author
to write a grateful acknowledgement? If
you know a weary or neglected one, would
it not be Christlike work to seek every op-
portunity to brighten and to bless that life?
Do not wait till the eyes are closed, the ear
deaf, and the heart stilled. Do it now.
Post-mortem kindesses do not cheer. Flow-
ers on the coffin cast no fragrance back over
the weary days—Rev. J. B. Miller, in S.
S. Times.


