PEN AND SCISSORS.

	WISDOM is oftentimes nearer when we
stoop than when we soar.
	THE best "vegetable pill" ever made is
an apple dumpling.
	MAKE the expenses less than the income,
and the road to competency, if not to wealth,
is as plain as the road to mill.
	EXPERIENCE is a good schoolmaster,
though often pretty severe; and there is
little danger of our forgetting the lessons
he teaches us.
	SINCE the high hats for ladies came into
fashion, a flying trapeze performance is the
only thing that can be seen at a theatre
without hindrance.
	MISS Anna Dickenson in studying for the
stage, works bravely, and will make her
debut probably as Joan of Arc—a character
for which she has the greatest admiration.
	MRS. Wm. Pascoe, of Dodgeville, Wis.,
one day recently, dressed a chicken that
had three well developed, full sized hearts,
all united by a ligament. A very hearty
fowl.
	A UNIVERSITY student broke through the
ice at lake Monana, the other day, when the
water was only four feet deep. When he
was hauled out upon the ice he whispered,
"Boys, I don't care for myself, but I'm en-
gaged."
	THE effects of Dime Novel literature, are
well illustrated in the case of Pomroy, the
boy-murderer of Massachusetts, who con-
fesses that his thirst for blood was acquired
by reading Indian stories.
	"NEVER sign a paper until you know
what it contains," was the advice given by
a father to his little son who had been plac-
ing both his own and his father's signature
to an article, the contents of which he knew
nothing, but signed because a good man
asked him to
	A COUNTEFEIT currenct plate on the Am-
hurst bank has been forwarded to the Uni-
ted States Secret Service Division by the
chief operative of the New England De-
partment. Owing to its being nearly a
century old, it is considered a great relic by
the Treasury Department.
	A GENTLEMAN, while walking in his gar-
den, caught his gardener asleep under a
tree. He scolded him soundly for his lazi-
ness, and ended by telling him such a slug-
gard was not worthy to enjoy the light of
the sun. "It was that reason exactly," said
the gardener, "that I crept up into the
shade."
	INFINITE toil would not enable us to
sweep a mist, but by ascending a little you
may overlook it altogether. So it is with
our moral improvement; we wrestle fiercely
with a vicious habit, which would have no
hold upon us if we ascended into a higher
moral atmosphere.
	DR. Albert Lull, of Nashua, recently lost
his port-monnaie, and made the discovery
while sitting in the house. He had been at
work in the garden, and thought he might
have lost it there. Stating as much to his
black and tan dog, he directed him to go
for it. The dog at once left the room and
soon returned with the missing pocket-book.
On another occasion this dog found a twen-
ty-five cent scip in the street, and on his
own accord he picked it up and carried it to
his master. Although he has had no in-
structions in finance, he appears clearly to
understand the value of money.—Telegraph.


