			BY AVONDALE.

	My Mother has been dead now more than
fifty years. She taught me to have faith in
God; at that time the hydra-headed mon-
ster that has developed into modern Infidel-
ity had not taken the hideous shape it has
to-day.  In those days folks went to church,
and, if what the parson said "went in one
ear and out of the other" people didn't re-
vile at religion. They had not found out
the way then to be irreligious on scientific(?)
principles; to prove that there is no God by
the perfection of the whole, and the auto-
matic simplicity of the parts, of these grand
creations we live in.
	Well, mother taught me to pray. I do
not remember the form or words used, but
I do remember she taught me to feel as if I


was in the presence of God. Now-a-days
some people would laugh at this kind of
education.
	I often think of the small seed then im-
planted in my mind and try to describe it
to myself and others, but words fail me.  I
saw by her eve, I felt in my soul, and—I
can’t tell it.
	She was a mother; I have seen, I do see
women like her, and I love them. O what
a mighty power is with the mother!  For
good or for evil, it must be so.
	Education! Wide as the base of the pyr-
amid which towers to heaven and stands
unshaken for a thousand years, is that which
is built on faith in God. But crumbling and
confounding as the tower of Babel is that
which is erected in unbelief. With the
mother is the responsibility of laying the
foundation of education in the child from
the moment it can begin to think, perhaps
before.
	Yes; it was a small seed that was sown
by my mother, but, had that not been plan-
ted some other would have been. That
which grows first may crowd out the next.
When unbelief grows and grows, it is diffi-
cult to root it out; it spreads, and poisons
as it spreads. As it is I have received the
Gospel; others with larger capacities to re-
ceive intelligence have no room for the
Truth. They may not have had a mother
to inspire them with faith when they were
by her side in childhood.
	This is a great power to wield. It is a
great thing to be a mother, to light the
lamp of life in a child and link it to the
earth for three score years and ten; how
much greater to unite it to the heavens and
to impart a light and life that will never
dim and never die!


