NOTES AND NEWS.

	A BILL in favor of woman suffrage has
been defeated in the Massachusetts Legis-
lature. Those Legislators have yet some
sterling truths to learn, though they may
be very wise.
	PEOPLE IN nearly all parts of the world,
as well as the Latter-day Saints, are begin-
ning to comprehend that the Co-operative
system of labor is calculated to bring about
the most satisfactory results.
	OF ONE hundred and fifty postmistresses
in Pennsylvania, not one, it is said, has ever
proved a defaulter to the Government. Can
all the postmasters who have served in any
one of the States be said to hold as bright
a claim to honesty?
	A GENTLEMAN who has seen seventy-four
winters, writing from Richmond, Massa-
chusetts, says that he never before experi-
enced so cold weather as he has there this
winter. A letter from a lady in Michigan
brings a similar report. And all through
the country almost the same story is told,
while in this Territory there has not been a
day of intense cold weather during the
whole winter.  In this respect, for once at
least, Utah has certainly been greatly fa-
vored.
	LADY COMMISSIONER.—The following dis-
patch appears in the San Francisco "Chroni-
cle" of the 17th inst:
				"Sacramento, Feb. 16.
	"To-day the Governor commissioned Ju-
lia K. Sutherland a Commissioner of Deeds
for the state of California, to reside in Salt
Lake City."
	Miss Sutherland is the accomplished
daughter of Judge Sutherland, of Salt Lake,
one of the best lawyers in Utah. The young
lady has also been commissioned a Notary
Public for Salt Lake county, and is thorough-
ly qualified for these positions, having stud-
ied under the Judge's tuition, and having
been of great assistance to him in the rou-
tine of his business for some time past. We
are pleased to note this appreciation of fem-
inine talent on the part of two distinguished
Governors.—Ogden Junction.
	MRS. DUNNIWAY of the "New North
West," contends that apathy, with some of
the women of the day, "amounts to crimi-
nal indifference." She says, "For women
who happen to have all their temporary
wants supplied to be totally unmindful of
the condition of their less fortunate sisters,
who must struggle, and that constantly for
the means wherewith to sustain the lives of
themselves and others, is a brand of selfish-
ness or thoughtlessness which no true wo-
man should be willing to carry upon her
brow." The sentiment is a noble one, and
may be applied to more subjects than that
of woman suffrage. We hold that in the
sight of Heaven, the careless, indolent wo-
man who is indifferent to the cause of po-
litical rights for her sisters, is even less cul-
pable than the ruthless one who considers
not whether a way is provided through
which her sisters may, in honor and chasti-
ty, enjoy hymeneal and maternal rights, so
long as she has been or may be kindly fa-
vored with the possession of those rights.


[Column 1]		
