DEAR EXPONENT:
	What with the children, and the flowers,
planting garden, getting three meals a day
—washing, ironing, mending, making clothes
and the odd thousand cares of a woman
with a large family one gets very little time
to write even the letters that should go to
friends, much less time for THOUGHT, to fur-
nish something readable for the paper.—But
there is one great thought that has been re-
volving and growing larger in my mind,

[Column 2]
and I feel that I should unburden and let it
out as I did to a sister that called upon me
the other day. She was telling me what a
time she had with her children—two girls
and four boys. The girls she could manage
—but the boys! goodness—she couldn’t
keep track of them—they were always off,
in streets or somewhere. The other day one
came home with a bloody nose—got hurt in
a fight. A few days before another had
been thrown from a wild horse and got his
ankle sprained—a smaller one had fallen in-
to the fire of a brush heap, the other night,
while in company with some young hood-
lums—and next she expected some of them
would get killed, and she could not tell why
she COULD not manage her children—She
whipped, scolded, and threatened them
every day but they wouldn’t mind—John,
the oldest would go off every night and
stay out late, and she could not coax him to
stay at home, he always had to “see some-
body” or had an errand down town—and to
her grief and horror, 'tother night he came
home more than half tipsy—and she wept
in much distress—and when she had exhaust-
ed herself relating her troubles, she asked
me, "HOW DO you manage your boys that
they are always at home and steady and
never drunk, do not smoke, nor chew tobac-
co, nor get into trouble—do tell me! Well
says I,—I manage my children a little differ-
ent from any body else—I try to make
HOME the most pleasant of all places in
town, and thus my children do not wish to
go away, but their companions are attracted
to them here. And so I am always enabled
to watch over all their sports and amuse-
ments, and to advise, correct, or reprove as
need may be. "Why certainly," says she, "I
always try to have them do so too, but they 
wont." Well, says I, perhaps you don’t provide
them the means proper and necessary for
their amusement. "What do you mean?"
she asked, "I'm sure I give them all anybody
can need. I feed them regularly—give them
gcod clothes, have a warm house, a Bible,
Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants
and sometimes borrow a "Desert News" for
them to read. Now what more can one do?"
My Dear Sister, says I—children must be
studied, and managed and led, or they will
not be a success. Their minds are weak—
tender—early led and turned from good or
evil. Their minds are active and must have
occupation. Too much labor tires—too much
study stupefies,—so the mind must be fed
with light as well as heavy food. If you
would catch flies, don't use a vinegar bait
If you want your children to stay at home
make home attractive, pleasant, delightful,
STOP SCOLDING and thundering, burn up the
rods—rule by love. When they are a little
noisy or boisterous in the house, don't scold
or turn them out of doors, but join them in
their fun. Appear interested in their
amusement and then you can manage them
easily. Give them such reading as they
like,—good stories, funny reading, puzzles
—picture and toy books. Then for a change,
get different games, learn them their use
and sometimes play with them, and don't
live away up in another atmosphere from
your children. Go down where they live,
and stay there much of your time—then
your children will love you and are gov-
erned. "But" says she " I don't understand
half you say, about the reading and games
and other ways to keep children, and I am
so interested please tell me just how you do.
So I took her into the other room, I showed
her our shelves full of nice books, papers
and magazines, for children to read—showed
her the winter flower garden and how each
one of the children owned and attended a
part—then showed her the games, blocks, 

[Column 2]
cut cards—chess—checkers—dominoes and
other sources of amusement.—Then the lit-
tle room used as a museum—where all curi-
osities—bugs—insects—stuffed animals curi-
ous pictures and a thousand things are laid
around. I told her each child assisted in
the collection, of flowers, plants, insects, an- 
imals,—curious rocks, ores, and pebbles; and
then the play grounds and the little out
doors garden of each—and then we strolled
around the gardens, orchard and vineyard
—the fruit being one of the greatest attrac-
tions for the little ones, in its seasons.—
“Well,” says she, "this is all wonderful,
and new to me I never before thought of
such ways to manage children—and I don't
wonder with one so kind as you and so
many ways of enjoyment, that you get
along with your children so well. I mean
to turn over a new leaf and try your plan,
and the poor woman went off quite comfor-
ted.
 	Well really Ive been so intent and inter-
ested in telling about the poor woman that
my bread has got scorched—and dear me!
here comes Willie, crying, poor little fellow!
—he has been out poking sticks in entrance
of beehive and has got stung. But there.
I held a little wet mud on the place for a 
few minutes and the pain has gone.—O
dear! I used to wish Willie would get big
enough to walk, so he would be less trouble,
but goodness sakes! it seems ten times more
trouble now. He goes everywhere—is in
every possible mischief all the time—and I 
believe I'd rather have two or even three
babies to care for.—Well I must get the lit-
tle toddler asleep.
			As ever,
