		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	CURE FOR NEURALGIA.—Take potatoes
and slice them thin as you can and bind
them on where the pain is and it will re-
lieve it in a few hours.  Keep putting on
until a cure is effected, which will be in
two or three applications.—Cor. Cincinnatti
Times.
	DIPHTHERIA has been very prevalent in
Australia, and one of the most successful
remedies is said to have been a few drops
of sulphuric acid in a tumblerful of water.
The result of this mixture is said to be a
coagulation of the diphtheritic membrane
and its ready removal by coughing.
	BURNS.—The white of an egg has proved
of late the most efficacious remedy for burns.
Seven or eight successive applications of
this substance soothe pain, and effectually
exclude the burn from the air.  This simple
remedy seems to be preferable to collodion
or even cotton.
	CURE FOR PROUD FLESH.—When alum
and burnt shoe soles will not touch it, get
black haw roots; scrape the outside bark off,
then peel the inside and scrape all the in-
side off, and dry and powder it fine.  Now
wash the sore with castile soap suds, and
put the powder in upon the proud flesh. 
	GRUEL.—Several articles may be used,
but wheat meal is preferable. Have the
water boiling. Make a paste of the meal
and cold water, and stir in slowly.  It must
not stop boiling for a moment; if it does it
will have a raw taste, which you cannot
remedy by cooking for hours.
	PATENT MEDICINES.—So long as medi-
cines are held before the people as the es-
sential means of curing the sick, so long
will patent medicines be used.  Physicians

[Column 2]
may resolve, and re-resolve, discuss and
preach, but it will do little good.  Intelli-
gent as well as ignorant buy patent medi-
cines.  The only cure is in spreading the
belief that medicines are harmful rather
than beneficial.—"Herald of Health."
	THE SECRET OF HEALTH.—First—Keep
cool.  Second—Eat regularly and slowly.
Third—Maintain regular bodily habits.
Fourth—Take early and light suppers.  Fifth
—Keep a clean skin.  Sixth—Get plenty of
sleep at night.  Seventh—Keep cheerful
and respectable company.  Eighth—Keep
out of debt.  Ninth—Don't set your mind
on things you don't need.—Boston Tran-
script.
	CURE FOR CORNS.—Ten cents' worth of
muriatic acid and acid of niter will take out
any number of corns and warts.  Scrape
around the corn and put the acid around it
a few times; and then you can take the
point of a knife, or even a pin, and lift it
out at the root. Put a little grease in it
when it is removed.
		A greater boon than fame or wealth,
		Is life's chief blessing, perfect health.
		Yet many have it not, because
		They've violated Nature's laws.
	AFTER DINNER NAPS.—Many persons
are in the habit of sleeping for half an hour
or an hour immediately after dinner.  Ten
minutes' sleep before dinner is worth more
than an hour after.  It rests and refreshes
and prepares the system for vigorous diges-
tion.  If sleep is taken after dinner it should
be in the sitting posture, as the horizontal
position is unfavorable to healthful diges-
tion. Let those who need rest and sleep
during the day take it before dinner instead
of after, and they will soon find that they
will feel better and that their digestion will
be improved thereby.
	TONICS FOR WOMEN.—Nothing makes a
woman age more rapidly than over-work—
the reason, probably, that American women
fade so soon.  Sunshine, music, work and
sleep are the greatest medicines for women,
who need more sleep than men.  Their
nerves are more sensitive and they are not
so strong, and exhaustion from labor or
pleasure takes place sooner with them than
men.  Never permit yourself to be roused
out of a deep sleep in the morning.  In
fact, one should never be awakened.  The
body rouses of itself when its demands are
satisfied.  Take a warm bath occasionally
before going to bed—at least once a week.
	AIR THE SPARE BEDS.—Here is a hint
for housekeepers, and a very important one.
Merely covering up a bed with blankets and
counterpanes will no more protect it  from
dampness or keep it dry than a pane of
glass will keep  out  light.  The atmospheric
moisture will penetrate all woven fabrics.
Hence, the importance of keeping the beds
in spare rooms regularly aired.  Many a
dear friend or welcome visitor has been
sent to an untimely grave or afflicted with
disease, by being put into a bed which had
been permitted to stand unoccupied.  Keep
the spare beds, when not in use, free from
all covering but a light spread.


IT is a fact that God's care is more evi-
dent in some instances than in others to
the dim and often bewildered vision of hu-
manity. Upon such instances men seize,
and call them Providences. It is well that
they can; but it would be gloriously better
if they could believe that the whole matter
is one grand Providence.—George Macdon-
ald.


