		PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

	It is estimated by the coroner of London,
that in that great city alone, TWELVE THOU-
SAND MOTHERS annually, murder their babies
aftertheirbirth. In New York, it is calculated
that the fetus and child murders are DOUBLE
that number.
	Much as the Mormon system of marriage is
talked about in the outside world, ignorant and
degraded as its women adherents are consider-
ed, we have yet to learn of the first instance of
such a crime having been committed by a
Latter-day Saint mother.
	The highest, holsest ambition of the true
Mormon mother is to keep her children in
purity and health, making them in every pos-
sible respect superior to herself. Whether a
woman be a first or plural wife matters not in
regard to these morthy aspirations, her love for
the precious charge committed to her care by
a merciful God is ever the same.
	Compare the difference between this fact and
the condition of communities such as people
ondon and New York, O! ye wise(?) men, ye
saintly, virtuous(?) women who have such a
holy horror of polygamic or celestial marriage!
And let common sense instead of prejudice—
natural, womanly instinct instead of sickly
spleen answer for you, which state of society
can be justly looked upon as most enobling and
exalting not only to woman but to the whole
human race.
	A lady, who was among the first to accept
the doctrine of celestial marriage as revealed
to Joseph Smith, and who has been in plural-
ity for upwards of thirty years, testifies that
had she understood the principle when she

[Column 2]
first received it as a message from God, as she
now does, she would have hailed it with great
delight and joy. But it was not generally giv-
en to the fathers and mothers of the young
people in Zion to comprehend the necessity of
adopting such a system of marriage, when it
was first introduced into the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. Even as Abra-
ham went forth to sacrifice his son, so they
were required to observe the law and keep the
commandments of God, without fore knowl-
edge. Whereas the present condition of the
world compaerd with the condition of the
true Latter-day Saints, is sufficient evidence to
a mind enlightened with any degree of the
spirit of God upon the subject, of the great
good which has been and will be done through
the medium of this system of plural marriage.
And also of the great necessity for its being ad-
mitted as a tenet of the gospel of Christ when
His church was established in these latter
days.
	These truths are patent to the minds of many
young men and women connected with the
Church; and our exhortations to such friends
are, that they will give due consideration there-
unto.
	Young wives and maidens—young brethren
too—shall we not prove to our God, ourselves
and the world that our parents have not failed
in their efforts to instill into our hearts the
eternal principles of truth which lead to ever-
lasting life and happiness? If we have seen
our parents suffer in consequence  of not un-
derstanding the correct ways of life, let us not
condemn any true principle on that account;
neither doubt the pure motives of either par-
ent, as some sons and daughters have done,
while fully aware that both are and ever have
been desirous of doing the will of God. But
we may profit by the experience through
which we have seen them pass, as well as by
their teachings and testimonies to us concern-
ing the words and works of our Heavenly Fa-
ther. We can observe wherein they have fal-
len short at times through want of knowledge;
and while humbly blessing them for their kind
teaching, and rendering all due respect, we
should look upon their mistakes as timely
warnings for us. Where they have stumbled,
they have left way-marks for our guidance,
which, if we heed while passing on in life,
will enable us to shun many dangerous places,
into which we might otherwise stray blindly
as they have done. But we must walk in all
humility and gentleness, and ever beware, that
we make not, ourselves, the grand mistake
of all, in presuming that we may benefit our-
selves, and escape the ills, the trials and sacri-
fices which our parents have known, by forsak-
ing the ways of eternal life and light for things
less holy. We must stand bravely by the prin-
ciples of truth and righteousness for which our
parents have endured so many privations and
hardships. And where sons see that their fa-
thers have made missteps and brought unnec-
essary afflictions on their families, let them
seek for wisdom to avoid like errors, but suffer
not their lips to utter or their hearts to feel
ought against any sacred law pertaining to the
Gospel. Daughters who have the experience
of their mothers, as well as the additional
light which has been poured forth to aid them,
should be able to live in accordance with the
requirements of the Gospel without enduring
those heart pangs to which their mothers have
been subjected most frequently through a lack
of wisdom and light concerning the principles
which they knew to be true but had not
learned to practice in perfection.
	Still, the young in Zion, even those who
have been born in the priesthood, need not


think to escape all trials and hardships; for
"there is no royal road to learning;"—this rule
applies to religious as well as intellectual edu-
cation—neither are blessings promised save
through sacrifice.
	Neither the Saints nor the children of the
Saints are yet perfect; and until they are suffi-
ciently cleansed and purified, until they are
worthy to dwell in the presence of the holy
angels and their Lord and Savior for which
they pray, the process of purification will not
be stopped. But those who hold to the faith
are constantly improving. The present gener-
ation is becoming qualified for the accom-
plishment of greater things than have been
achieved by the former; and the next will be
still more improved; by and by we shall have
arrived at that state of perfection which every
good Latter-day Saint is striving to reach.
May we not falter by the way and may God
help us.


