WINTERGREENS.
	The evergreen trees that cover the hills
and sprinkle the rich shades through our
American forests never seem so beautiful as
in the winter, when the ground is bare or
snow-covered and the branches of other
trees are leafless. They relieve the land-
scape of its dreariness, and add an element
of beauty and hope to the otherwise cheer-
less spectacle. There is something very
grand and suggestive in a noble pine or fir
that stands up clothed and courageous in
the midst of wintry desolation, when the
fields are covered with a snowy winding
sheet and the rest of the forests have yield-
ed their foliage to the blasts. They seem
to say to the frost, "We are more than a
match for your rigors;" and to the mourning
world they tell of continuous life and prom-
ised renewal.
	It is delightful to have green things to
look at in the winter. A single plant in a
room gives it a cheery look. There is a
great deal of companionship in a few plants
and flowers in the close apartments of a city
home in the winter, when the sky lowers
and the prospects out of doors are bleak and
forbidding. It is surprising what pleasure
can be got out of a half dozen brown earth-
en pots for three months of the year.
Surely wintergreens are an admirable in-
vention, and whoever is fortunate enough
to have them would thank the inventor in
feeling if not in words.  The eye and the
heart both crave green things in the win-


ter, and it is a suggestive fact that the cold-
er the climate and the longer the period of
snow the more evergreens grow. The sea-
son requires just that contrast of colors, that
offset to its desolateness.
	The wintergreens of life are still more
needed and welcomed at this season. The
cold drives us in on ourselves. It shuts us
up within doors. It forces us back upon
the warm places of the heart. The more
storms and sleet without, the more closely
we nestle together and draw on the beauti-
ful sympathies and charities of human na-
ture. There is a foliage of sociability, a
flowering of kindness and good will, an out-
growth of sympathy and charity which seem
never so lovely as in the winter time, and
are prized and cherished by those who have
them as the costliest exotics of a tropic
clime. The gaiety and gladness and mirth
which spring spontaneously from the best
natures in dull months are wintergreens
that it were far better worth the while to
cultivate than any plants and shrubs that
can be brought from the conservatory. The
one great art in which Americans are too
deficient is that of home-keeping.  We
build fine houses, and fill them with showy
and costly furniture. We spend fortunes
on pictures, upholstery, servants, plate and
other things to set off our circumstances and
adorn our state. But sometimes we go out
of our elegant mansion into some fourth-
story flat and find a little parlor so cosy and
cheery, so bright and hope-hued, when there
is nothing in it to speak but a few cheap ar-
ticles of furniture and a dozen plants and a
canary bird in the window and a baby on
the floor, that we wonder what the charm
consists in and almost wish to exchange
places without boot. It is wintergreens.
It is the art of leafage. It is the graceful
flowering of the heart when the world is
bare and the skies are black. And it is
more of this wintergreen that is wanted to
make our homes beautiful and our lives one
prolonged summer.—"Golden Age."


