		HOUSEHOLD HINTS

     	Milk Stains.—Milk stains on serge dresses may
be removed by steeping the part in warm water.
	Jelly Cake—One cup butter, 1 cup sugar—4
eggs—11 cups flour—beat the eggs separately. 
	To Make Muffins.—Two eggs, two quarts of
flour, a pint of sweet milk, one pound of butter,
a gill of yeast, a teaspoonful of salt. 
	To Make Grandmother’s Gingerbread—Cup
and a half molasses, cup of rich sour cream, tea-
spoonful saleratus, teaspoonful of ginger; mix a 
little stiff.
	Clove Cake.—One cup molasses—1 cup sugar—
1 cup butter—1 cup buttermilk—3 eggs—3 cups
flour—1 tablespoon cloves—l of cinnamon—l tea-
spoon saleratus in milk—raisins. 
	Apple Sauce.—Two quarts of water, a pint of
molasses, a root of ginger, and boil altogether
twenty minutes; put in while boiling one peck of
pared, cored and quartered apples.  Stew till ten-
der. 
	Waffles.—One quart of flour, one pint of sour
milk, one teaspoonful of  soda, four eggs, a piece
of butter the size of a large egg, and a little salt.
Bake in waffle irons.  Sour cream and less butter
improves them. 
	Colors to Harmonize with Mahogany.—The
American Artisan says "mahogany must not be as-
sociated with red, scarlet or orange, otherwise its
effect is destroyed.  It harmonizes with almost
every other tint that is used in upholstery."
	Beef Stew.—Six pounds of the flank of beef,
cut in small pieces; boil in two quarts of water
until tender.  Then put in a dozen potatoes, a
dozen onions, and four turnips; cover it so that the
steam shall not escape; salt and pepper to taste. 
	Grape Jam.—Boil the Grapes in just water
enough to make them tender, strain them through
a colander, then in  one pound of pulp put one
pound of sugar; boil this half an hour; the com-
mon wild grape makes a nice jam. 
	Cream Cake.—Beat two eggs with one cup of
sugar, add one cup of thin cream, a teaspoonful of
salcratus and one of salt; flavor with nutmeg and
lemon or other spice, mix as stiff as will pour into
pans. A handful of currants improves it. Try
it. 
	Lamb Stew.—Take half a shoulder of lamb,
boil it in two quarts of water two hours.  Then
put in potatoes, onions if desired, and turnips cut in
quarters; two teaspoonfuls of salt and pepper to
taste.  Ten minutes before serving put in the
dumplings. 
 	Cream Pie. —One and a half cups of sugar,
three cups of flour, one cup of milk, two eggs, two

[Column 2]
tablespoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of
saleratus. Cream for inside, one pint of milk,
one-half cup of sugar, a little butter and salt, two
tablespoonfuls of flour (or corn starch), Flavor
with lemon. (Make two pies). Stir into the
milk while boiling till sufficiently thick.
	Taking Care of Boots.—One who has experi-
ence is convinced that a coat of gum copal varnish
applied to the soles of boots and shoes, and repeat-
ed as it dries, until the pores are filled and the
surface shines like polished mahogany, will make
the soles waterproof, and also cause them to last
three times as long as ordinary soles.
 	Rice Pudding with Fruit.—Swell the rice with
a very little milk over the fire then mix fruit of any
kind with it, currants, goosberries scalded, pared and
quartered apples, raisins, or black currants, and
still better, red currant jelly, with one egg to bind
the rice; boil it well, and serve with powdered cin-
namon and sugar.
	Oatmeal Pancakes.—Stir into four cupsful of
cold water a teaspoonful of salt, a large handful of
graham flour and oatmeal till you have a thin bat-
ter.  Bake at once on a very hot griddle; the Gra-
ham flour improves the pancakes, as they are
more easily turned and not quite so dry as when
oatmeal only is used.  When preferred, one cup of
water can be left out, using instead of it a cupful
of buttermilk and a teaspoonful of soda. 
	Shin of Beef Soup.—Have the shin well
cracked up; put it to boil in five or six quarts of
water: boil it five or six hours; skim it very often.
Cut up very fine, half a white cabbage; chop two
turnips and three onions if desired; put them all
into the soup with pepper and salt, and boil it two
hours; take the bone and gristle out before serving.
If you have some raised dough, make up a dozen
balls, the size of a nutmeg, drop them into the
soup and let them boil half an hour.


[Column 1]
