		WOMAN'S RECORD.

	JEAN Ingelow has written a new serial
story entitled "Fated to be Free."
    	MARY Clemmer Ames says Speaker Blaine
is brilliant; Mrs. Blaine impressive.
	MRS. Almena H. Bass has been appointed
postmistress at East Acworth, N.H.
	QUEEN Victoria won the first prize for
pigs at a recent cattle show in London.
	A GRANDDAUGHTER of Dr. Paley has
beaten all the boys at Cambridge in moral
science.
	MISS Gertrude Pillow, daughter of Gen.
Pillow, has shot a bear near Old Town Land-
ing, Ark.
	KATE King is the Washington correspon-
dent of the Cleveland Leader. Her letters
are about "medium."
	MRS. Bryan of Abington, Ill., took 122
premiums, amounting to $1,150, on her cat-
tle, at the Fairs last fall.
	MISS Thompson of "Roll Call" renown
has been elected a member of the Institute
of Painters in Water Colors.
	MRS. Beecher and Mrs. Tilton are regular
attendants at the great Tilton-Beecher trial,
now in progress in Brooklyn.
	LADY Franklin offers $10,000 to any Arc-
tic explorer who will recover the records
and papers of her late husband.
	MISS Carrie Clark, daughter of Henry S.
Clark, lately deceased, has been appointed
express agent in Northampton, Mass.
	THE will of Mrs. Ann White Vose of Bos-
ton makes the remarkable bequest of $365,
000 to the public institutions of that city.
	MRS. E Manchester, familiarly known as
"Aunt Lizzie Manchester," died at Pitts-
town, Rensselaer Co., N.Y., lately, aged 105.
	REV. Phebe A. Hanaford, Miss Lelia E.
Patridge and Rev. Adda C. Bowles have
been recently lecturing acceptably in Phila-
delphia.
	THE annual ladies' reception of the Union
League Club of New York took place on the 
evening of Jan. 26th, and was a pleasant
occasion.
	EVERY daughter of the Queen of Eng-
land knows how to cook and keep house,
which shows that queens are not always de-
void of sound sense. 
	MISS Lizzie Hess, M.D., who graduated
in the Medical Department of the Iowa State
University, with the highest honors of her
class, thus far has met with very gratifying
success in practice.
	MISS Nancy Monell of St. Johns gradua-
ted at a medical institute in New York, and
is now superintendent of a large hospital
at Lucknow, India, at a salary of $5,000 per
year and all expenses paid.
	MRS. S.A. Gifford of Worcester, Mass., 
Rev. Mrs. Gustin of Attleboro, Mrs. M. L. 
Draper of Boston and Mrs. Dr. Spetigue of
Cambridgeport addressed a mass temper-
ance meeting held in the First Methodist
Church of Worcester, recently. 

[Column 2]
	MISS Bancroft, the young lady who was
recently married to Count Tziecuzksi, has
now got a name which is the nearest ap-
proach to the phonetic spelling of a sneeze
that has yet been made. 
	MRS. Mary Whitman Eddy, wife of Dea.
Morton Eddy of Fall River, and widely
known as the successor of Mary Lyon in the
principalship of Mt. Holyoke Seminary,
died on the 6th ult., aged sixty-six years.
	DRS. Mary E. Speek and Mary S. Parsons,
colored graduates of Howard University,
having been refused admission to the medi-
cal society of the District, an organization
chartered by Congress, have petitioned
Congress that the charter of the society be
amended so that they may not be excluded
from it.
	MRS. Alice Cooley, who recently died at
Brookfield, Mass., at the age of 100 years,
was married on the first day of the present
century, in the twenty-fifth year of her
age, and went to her new house, where she
resided till Jan. 1, 1875, a period of just 75
years, when she died. She was a lady of
rare beauty and saintliness of character.
     ONE of the girl weavers in the Merchants
Mill, Fall River, was lately discharged, for
beginning work late, whereupon the other
weavers stopped work and would not begin
again until they extracted a promise from
the overseer that the looms of the girl
should stand idle until a settlement was ar-
rived at. The weavers then continued
work.


