LET RIGHTEOUSNESS RULE.

	In casting our thoughts to the grand consti-
tution that has been framed and accepted as
a guiding angel to a nobel people's prosperity
and happiness, we cannot but deplore the re-
cent impolicy of those whose duties were to
apply each wise principle of our government
so that every true man and woman on the
broad surface of this land might exclaim "It
is just. Our rights are recognized; our peace
secured." But too truly the reverse do we see.
National peace is fast becoming a theme only
to be remembered. Civil strife is the gossip of
the hour. Knavish politicians often rule the
senate, and personal merit likewise disregard-
ed. To-day precious human liberty is hanging
on a thread.
	How ardent were the anticipations of our
forefathers when they had securely planted the
seeds of freedom's progress on this fertile soil.
The confusion of the times is almost loud
enough to recall them from their quiet slum-
bers and excite them to words of stern rebuke.
What has become of the idea "Brotherhood,"
that once swelled the bosoms of America's
children.
	Learning and science have failed to make us
kind, just, equal. A train, and a long train too,
of unscrupulous office holders on one side, and
an ignored, unlettered, oppressed populace on
the other, is dividing the nation asunder.
Every heart longs for independence, and we
have a right to it. Stifle the flame of true am-
bition in the breast, and how much courage is
there left? God made us all, and he never in-
tended for one human being to trample on an-
other. The earth is rich enough to prosper all
her children, but a few are wrapped in luxury,
and the many go uncomforted. Human laws
humanly exercised, will make a nation politi-
cally rich, contented and heroic. When our
government feels to accord to its every son and
daughter their perfect and equal rights; when
sterling worth, instead of inglorious gold, takes
the conspicuous chair of influence; when re-
wards are meted out for the good that is actu-
ally done; when men's brains are more solid
than their purses; then will the Constitution
of our country be made subservient to the good
it was intended.					KENT.


