[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | September | Issue: 8 | Title: BRILLIANT COMPANY. | Author: Unknown]

BRILLIANT COMPANY.
	The luncheon and reception tendered by
the local Council of Jewish Women to the
visiting delegates of the National Coun-
cil of Women at the Metropolitan club on
Oct. 25, was a most brilliant entertainment.
It is seldom that one cit[-] has the pleasure
of entertaining so many distinguished wo-
men as are sojourning in the Gate City.
The spacious hall which was well adapted
for the purpose of entertaining on a grand
scale, was magnificent with myriads of
electric lights and flowers, and exquisite
confections in costuming, scintillating with
gems, vied with natural fiowers in the
adorning of these women, who although
they dive deep into reforms advanced to
elevate humanity and raise the standard of
citizenship, do not despise the witchery of
becoming apparel the glitter of jewels and
perfume of flowers.
	For a short time the receiving matrons,
Mrs Belle A. Polack, Mrs. Simon Adamsky,
and Mrs. Moritz Meyer, stood in the hall.
Only there was nothing about it to suggest
a hall, as it had been em[-]owered with ex-
otics so that it might easily have been im-
agined a bower in some tropical isle.
Passing thence to the long dining room the
guests perceived that the floral decorations
had been managed with artistic restraint.
The tables were arranged in a geometrical
design and beautifully decorated with a rich
display of white and yellow chrysanthe-
mums. At the head of the banquet board
the five guests of honor sat. Mrs. Polack,
president of the local Council of Jewish
Women, in the center. On her right was
seated Mrs. Hannah G. Solomon of Chica-
go, on her left Mrs. May Wright Sewall of
Indianapolis. Miss Susan B. Anthony sat
next to Mrs. Solomon and Mrs. Draper
Smith was seated next to Mrs. Sewall.
	The out of-town guests who occupied
spaces about the board were: Susan B. An-
thony, Mrs. Hannah Solomon of Chicago,
Mrs. Simon of Kansas City, Mo., Mrs.
Rosenwasser of Cleveland, Mrs. Iesner of
Champaign, Ill., Mrs. Foster, Mrs. Kate
Barrett of Washington, D. C., Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells, Mrs. M. Y. Dougall of Salt
Lake City, Mrs. Henry Hirsch of Des
Moines. Mrs Charles Mayer, Miss Mayer
of Lincoln, Mrs. Oberfelder of Sidney, Mrs.
Hirshland of Des Moines, Mrs. Lipals, Mrs.
Simon, Mrs. Ryder of Kansas City, Mrs.
Sewall of Indianapolis, Mrs Barbe of Chi-
cago, Mrs. Thershein, Mrs. Schulman, Mrs.
Fuhrman of Seattle, Mrs. Hollister of De-
troit, Mrs. Richards of Champaign, Mrs.
Moog, Mrs. Anna Shaw of Philadelphia, Mrs.
Frances Beauchamp of Lexington, Ky., Mrs.
Louise B. Robbins of Adrian, Mich., Mrs. L.
S. Lieberman, Mrs. Simon of Kansas City,
Miss Octave Williams Bates of Detroit, Mrs.
Newberry Adams of Dubuque.
GREETINGS TO THE GUESTS.
	In opening the post-prandial exercises
Mrs. Clara Rosewater, toastmistress, greet-
ed the guests, saying: "At no time in the
history of Omaha have so many brilliant
and talented women been with us. I there-
fore think it fitting that the session of the
Council of Jewish Women close with an ex-
pression of goodwill and fraternal feeling."

[Column 2]
She called the first toast of the afternoon,
"Welcome."
	Mrs. Belle Polack responded to this toast
in a happy manner, extending the most
cordial welcome to all.
	Mrs. Rosewater then said: "During the
last few years woman has steadily moved
on. She has advanced from the seclusion
of the past. The club is largely responsi-
ble for this."
	"What Clubbing has Done for Women"
was responded to by Mrs. H. F. Smith,
president of the Woman's Club of Omaha.
She spoke slowly and distinctly. "Club-
bing punishes," she said, “punishes for
past offences. We see our shortcomings in
the light of present study and regret times
wasted in youth. Clubbing injures physic-
ally unless taken in homeopathic doses.
To be serious it brings into our midst for
our enjoyment here today the leaders in the
world’s progress and thought.”
	“The Wonder of the Nineteenth Century:
the Fairest Work o[-] the Great Author”
was responded to by Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, and “Liberalism in Religion” by
Rev. Mary Gerard Andrews. "If we grow
intellectually we must grow into the
thought of the spirit,” said Mrs. Andrews,
“in the spirit of love. In spite of our dif-
ferences there is a large spirit of love and
good fellowship and this is the spirit of
liberal religion in our club.”
	Miss Susan B. Anthony was presented to
respond to the toast “Woman is man’s
Equal in Intellect, in Character His Su-
perior. She Needs no Eulogy. She
Speaks for Herself.” Miss Anthony was
heartily greeted as she arose to speak and
said: “The other half of genus homo is
making its appearance in the world. For
the last quarter of a century I have been
trying to impress upon the other half that
she has the inherent right to be equal to
the original half at the ballot box. I hope
to see the fruition of my labors.”
	Mrs. Leo Franklin responded to “Cas-
tles in the Air,” and Mrs. Hannah Solo-
mon “Why Omaha Needs a Jewish
Council.”


[Column 1]
[Union Pacific logo, shield with the following text written on it]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
