[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | September | Issue: 8 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS.

Miss Annie Wheeler, daughter of Gener-
al Wheeler, who had been nursing the sick
at Santiago, and has now come up to
Montauk, has become especially endeared
to the men for her adaptability under all
circumstances. On the voyage from Santi-


ago to Montauk, Miss Wheeler several
times acted as chaplain in reading the pray-
ers for the dead as the bodies were con-
signed to the watery grave.

Mrs. Ellen Louise Demorest, founder of
Demorest’s Monthly Magazine, died recent-
ly in New York City, after a long illness.
Mrs. Demorest had been actively engaged
for many years in philanthropic and temper-
ance work and in publishing the magazine
and other literary and fashionable periodi-
cals. She was born in Saratoga in 1824,
was the president of the Woman’s Christian
Temperance Union of New York City; vice-
president and trustee of the Woman’s Tem-
ple of Chicago; one of the charter members
and vice-president of Sor[-]sis; and a mem-
ber of many other societies. Mrs. Demo-
rest leaves four children—Mrs. Vienna
Demorest Gano, Henry C. Demorest, Wil-
liam C. Demorest and Mrs. Evelyn Demo-
rest Rea. 
Clara Barton will be ready to meet Sur-
geon-General Sternberg or anybody else
who wishes to lay responsibility for suffer-
ing on the Red Cross. It is not likely that
that official will be eager to hear the truth
all told by that straightforward lady. The
Red Cross took the lion’s share of the re-
sponsibility of relieving suffering so long
that Surgeon-General Sternberg’s announce-
ment is ridiculous. He says that inasmuch
as the Red Cross has had entrance to the
military camps since June 9 they must share
the responsibility for any suffering with the
War Department. The Red Cross isn’t
afraid but who is going to “investigate”
the merciful acts of a volunteer organiza-
tion managed by a disfranchised female
citizen?—Boston Transcript.
A small dish of powdered charcoal kep.
on one of the upper shelves of the refriger-
ator is an excellent thing to absorb odors.
It should be changed every few days.


[Column 1]
