[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | September | Issue: 8 | Title: LETTER FROM MISS ANTHONY. | Author: Unknown]

LETTER FROM MISS ANTHONY.
To the Daughters of the American Nation-
	al Council:

	Dear Friends:—Will you permit me to
address you, who, although not a member
of your order, am a daughter of the American
Revolution as well as a daughter of Ameri-
ca, hence doubly entitled to be reckoned
American?
	I trust that your Council will demand
that this country shall be governed by
American women as well as American men.
While all foreign-born men, by due process
of law, may become full-fledged citizens,
armed with the franchise, all native born
women are doomed to disfranchisement—
perpetual minors, perpetual aliens! For-
eign-born men are sovereigns in their adopt-
ed country; native-born women are subjects
in their own America.
	Think of what lies before us; in addition
to all the different nationalities now wield-
ing their power in our “body-politic,” we
shall soon have the semi-barbaric sons of


Spain in all the “isles of the sea,” together
with those of Hawaii admitted into this
holy of holies of our American republic.
	Can you, Daughters of America, see this
tremendous foreign balance of power com-
ing into our government without making a
demand for the admission of at least
American-born women to the franchise?
For native-born women to be ruled by the
men of their own nationality—their own
civilization—is quite humiliating enough:
but to live in subjection to the men of
foreign countries, void of the first principles
of our free institutions, is surely a degrada-
tion too dire for the Daughters of America
to submit to without an earnest protest. 
	The fiat has gone forth, there is no es-
cape from universal manhood suffrage, and
the one and only antidote for all its ills is
universal womanhood suffrage. There can
be no going backward. All men, of all
classes and all nationalities, have the right
to vote and all women must have it. There-
fore, the question now is, when shall the
crowning right of American citizenship be
placed in the hands of women, whom men
love to call the better half of the people?
	That you, the Daughters of America,
may give the weight of your influence to
hasten the coming of this good time is the 
earnest wish of
			Yours sincerely,
				SUSAN B. ANTHONY.


