EDITORIAL
. Motto  Charity Never Faileth

Vol. V. DECEMBER, 1918. No. 12.
"LITTLE CHILDREN, LOVE ONE ANOTHER."
For five years the editor of the Magazine has talked to the readers behind a barricade of "we," and "our." I want to speak to you this Christmas time without any barrier of indirectness; for I want to tell you all, my readers, and those who do not read this page, but who love and work for Zion: I love you, I love you all. And O, how ardently I pray for you. You heavily burdened stake boards and ward officers, you faithful teachers, and you gentle, kindly women who gather into our Relief Society meetings weekly. My heart goes out to you every one; I see you working late, arising early, hurrying, hurrying over each task, now multiplied by our righteous war's demands, but always so anxious to do your part, so conscientious to fulfill your last and latest call and obligation. O, how I love you for it! And how our Father in heaven loves you! Surely never on this earth lived finer, nobler, sweeter women than you all are. My sisters  my dear companions, and sisters in Christ!
And then, my thoughts turn inward, and I say to my stumbling, heavily-burdened self  what are you doing, how are you meeting the responsibilities placed upon you  how are you facing this concourse of loving-hearted women-readers month by month? And O, do they love you? I hope so; I pray you, dear, noble sisters, and readers, try to love me and be patient with my
EDITORIAL. 707
mistakes, kind to my faults, and let us love and serve each other truly. This, as I conceive it, is the throbbing heart of Christ's message to us all. And when the day breaks or the night shadows close around my evening pillow, and I think of my dear Savior, as He lay upon his mother's breast like my sons have rested on my bosom, I say to Him fondly, I love you, my Savior and my Friend. As lisping child, I love You. So must I love all lisping babes for Your dear sake. I love You working to bring mankind to learn obedience to law, yet pitying us all who cannot quite reach up to Thy perfection. And in that love for You, my soul thrills and my eyes fill with fond tears for these dear women, sisters and associates in the Relief Society, for we have all named Thy name, and we are Thy daughters.
This is my only Christmas gift, sisters, my love and prayers for you, and I lay it humbly on the altar of your forgiving companionship.
BURIAL CLOTHES.
The General Board of the Relief Society organized, several years ago, a Burial Clothes Department, under the sanction and approval of the First Presidency of the Church. Recently the old offices were vacated, when the Presidency moved into the new building, and were turned over to the Burial Clothes Department. We hope our sisters will continue to build up, through their patronage and encouragement, this splendid enterprise. It is in charge of Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Counselor to Pres. E. B. Wells. She and her committee have already a complete stock of the most beautiful and delicately-fashioned burial clothes possible for anyone of human skill to prepare. All grades of clothing are here shown, from the best to the cheapest. No individual makes any profit out of the work done in the department. Those who engage in the actual labor are paid a modest wage, but whatever profits accrue belong to the Society itself, so that the sisters patronizing this department are building up the Society, and not enriching individual undertaking firms. The committee have not raised their prices in spite of the tremendous raise in every other direction which the War has necessitated. The clothes may be ordered by mail or otherwise. Address: Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Bee Hive House, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Guide Lessons.
PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1919.
BOOK OF MORMON LESSON TOPICS FOR 1919.
January, Lesson 1. The Ministration of the Prince of Peace. February, Lesson 2. The Social Order of the Prince of Peace. March, Lesson 3. The Completeness and Detail of Prophecy in Relation to the Savior. April, Lesson 4. Children and the Book of Mormon. May, Lesson 5. The Doctrine of Inspired Ones as Set Forth in the Book of Mormon. June, Lesson 6. Miracles and the Book of Mormon. September, Lesson 7. Laws and the Nephites. October, Lesson 8. Legends and Book of Mormon Peoples. November, Lesson 9. Harvest Feasts and Book of Mormon Peoples. December, Lesson 10. Christmas Festivities and Book of Mormon Peoples.
GENEALOGICAL OUTLINES.
January, Lesson 1. How a Great English Battle Started Surnames in England. February, Lesson 2. The Origin of Anglo-Saxon Surnames. March, Lesson 3. People Surnamed Themselves from Places. April, Lesson 4. Surnames Derived from Offices and Professions. May, Lesson 5. Surnames from Trades and Occupations. June, Lesson 6. Nicknames  Prefixes and Suffixes. September, Lesson 7. Scotch and Irish Surnames. October, Lesson 8. Welsh Surnames. November, Lesson 9. Pedigrees and How to Use Them. December, Lesson 10. Preparing Printed Records.
CONSERVATION OUTLINES.
HUMAN LIFE IN THE HOME.
January, Lesson 1. Domestic Relations to the National Food Supply. February, Lesson 2. What is Public Health. (Old Customs and new Methods.) March, Lesson 3. Domestic Factors in Health Conservation. April, Lesson 4. Phases of Growth; Characteristics and Requirements.
GUIDE LESSONS. 709
May, Lesson 5. The Intelligent Observation of Children. June, Lesson 6. A Short Story of Adolescence. September, Lesson 7. National Aspects of Parenthood and its Problems. October, Lesson 8. The Influence of Home Conditions on Public Health. November, Lesson 9. Training in Personal Hygiene. December, Lesson 10. Dietary Needs at Various Ages.
HOW TO GIVE A LESSON (FOR CLASS TEACHERS).
Education is to lead out; to draw out. In the ideal lesson we should emphasize three p's: (1) Purpose; (2) Preparation; (3) Participation.
1. Purpose  Purpose should be definite. a. What is the lesson for? b. Get at core or central thought. c. Lesson should be planned to focus on one main thought.
2. Preparation  "You cannot teach what you do not know"  Dr. Maeser. Preparation should include both teachers and pupils.
3. Participation. In an ideal recitation everybody must take part. To expand, the mind must have something to tie to. Active participation gives the mind of each individual a chance. Activity stimulates thought, arouses enthusiasm and secures attention. Ask questions frequently to focus attention, to impress points and to insure participation.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in November.
THE ADVENT OF THE PRINCE OF PEACE.
Perhaps the most glorious book in the Book of Mormon is the Third Book of Nephi. It is most glorious because it gives a marvelous account of the ministry of the Lord Jesus on this continent. But the prelude to this great event was the period of dire calamity visited on the wicked and those who had sought the lives of the prophets. In the 8th chapter of III Nephi we read:
"And there began to be great doubtings and disputations among the people, notwithstanding so many signs had been given.


"And it came to pass in the thirty-fourth year, in the first month, in the fourth day of the month there arose a great storm, such a one as never had been known in all the land; and there was also a great and terrible tempest; and there was terrible thunder, insomuch, that it did shake the whole earth, as if it were about to divide asunder, and there were exceedingly sharp lightnings, such as never had been known in all the land."
When this terrible storm ceased a voice made announcement of all the great destruction that had taken place. In the 12th paragraph of III Nephi this voice declared:
"And many great destructions have I caused to come upon the land, and upon the people, because of their wickedness and their abominations."
Then came the wonderful plea:
"O all ye that are spared because ye were more righteous than they, will ye not now return unto me and repent of your sins, and be converted, that I may heal you?
"Yea, verily I say unto you, if you will come unto me ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive, and blessed are those who come unto me.
"Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God. I created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I was with the Father from the beginning; I am in the Father, and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name."
While these events were occurring, the people of this continent were enveloped by an indescribable darkness, a darkness that was so thick that it might be felt. But saith the inspired record, after three days of intense darkness, it was "morning and the darkness dispersed from off the face of the land, and the earth did cease to tremble, and the rocks did cease to rend, and the dreadful groanings did cease, and all the tumultuous noises did pass away.
"And the earth did cleave together again, that it stood and the mourning and the weeping and the wailing of the people who were spared alive, did cease; and their mourning was turned into joy, and their lamentations unto the praise and thanksgiving of the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer.
"And thus far were the scriptures fulfilled which had been spoken by the prophets.
"And it was the more righteous part of the people that were saved, and it was they who received the prophets and stoned them not; and it was they who had not shed the blood of the saints, who were spared.
"And now, whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold if all these deaths and destruction by fire and by smoke and by tempests, and by whirlwinds, and by opening of the earth to receive
GUIDE LESSONS. 711
them, and all these things, are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of all the holy prophets."
Does not that last paragraph of scripture seem as if it might have been written for our express benefit, in this very hour? Is it not most fitting to exhort today that "he that hath the scriptures let him search them, and see and behold if all these deaths and destructions about us, by fire and by smoke and by tempests and by whirlwinds and by opening of the earth to receive them, and all these things, are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of all the holy prophets."
The history of the past month has furnished a parallel for nearly every detail in this paragraph. Many lives have been lost by fire and by smoke and by tempests. Lives are certainly being lost by whirlwinds, and only a few days have elapsed since we read the story of the ravages of the last earthquake. Pestilence and disease, deaths over the whole earth. With equal force may we not say with those who lived in that great period of the meridian of time; "See and behold if all these deaths and destructions are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of many of the holy prophets?"
And, moreover, the terrible destruction of the fighting armies in the East and the West continues; gaunt famine has many millions of the earth in her grasp; disease has spread from continent to continent  disease claiming a larger toll at present, so far as the United States soldier is concerned, than the battle front. The might of the house of Hohenzollern, and the glory of the ancient house of Hapsburg is hourly fading as the mists before the sun. Surely history doth repeat itself, and like causes produce like results in all ages.
But now we turn once again to that part of our record that imparts joy and hope. After all the dire calamities that occurred among the Nephites came the Prince of Peace with healing in his wings. And he ministered unto them and blessed them until their joy was full. The author of the Story of the Book of Mormon refers to this blessed era of peace in the following language:
"When Jesus left the Nephites to the care of his disciples he had so thoroughly filled the people with the influence and the power of the eternal worlds that evil utterly ceased in their midst; they were united in all things temporal and spiritual, universal peace prevailed. Love, joy, harmony, everything desirable to make the life of man a perfect condition of unalloyed, holy happiness, reigned supreme. Indeed, it may be said that a type, a foreshadowing of the Millennium, for once found place and foothold among the sons of humanity."
Once again the Latter-day Saints stand where stood those of old, waiting for the advent of the Prince of Peace. It is not given


to man to know the hour when he shall come, but that he will come in glory and power no person who has faith in God's holy prophets ever doubts. He will come unto the Jews in Jerusalem, and there upon the Mount of Olives, he will show them the wounds in his hands and feet and side. Do we not truly rejoice that all history is moving rapidly towards that glorious consummation? The Holy Land, now no longer in possession of the Turks, must soon surely be a safe abiding place for her ancient covenant people. Under the magic touch of the modern engineer, cool waters have been stretched across her parched and burning deserts from Egypt to Jerusalem. And this we may well believe is only the beginning of the story. This war-worn, weary world of ours that has cried, peace, peace, so long, and finds no peace, will rest at last; for the Lord of glory will usher in the great Millennium. No matter how bitterly and completely the peace efforts of statesmen, philanthropists and scholars may have failed in the past; or how bitterly and completely they may fail in the future, one thing is sure, that when Jesus comes to reign as King of kings and Lord of lords, peace will cover the earth.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. Why would you naturally expect the part of the Book of Mormon dealing with Christ's ministry to be especially wonderful and glorious?
2. How was the advent of the Prince of Peace ushered in to the Nephites?
3. Read to the class the chapter announcing the calamities that had befallen them. (III Nephi 9.)
4. Why had they reasons to expect these calamities?
5. When do you recall the last deaths occurring from fire? From tempest? From whirlwinds? From earthquakes?
6. Tell how this toll of death is being added to by war, famine and disease.
7. With what country is the house of Hohenzollern connected?
8. With what country is the house of Hapsburg connected?
9. Find some scripture that refers to Christ's second coming and read it to the class.
10. Read Orson Hyde's prayer dedicating the land of Palestine for the gathering of the Jews.
11. Why is there larger hope that the scripture may soon be fulfilled in relation to the Jews, with Palestine in the possession of Great Britain and the allied nations, than in the hands of Turkey?
GUIDE LESSONS. 713
12. How is the period of time following Christ's ministry to the Nephites characterized?
13. What may we expect of that period when Christ shall come to reign as King?
LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in November.
LESSON III. Genealogy.
HOW A GREAT ENGLISH BATTLE STARTED SURNAMES IN ENGLAND. (Chapters XI and XII in Surname Book.)
Teachers' Outlines.
England has always been a melting pot for the Anglo-Saxon races. (a) First came the Angles and Saxons. (b) Then came the Danes. (c) Finally the Normans came over under William the Conqueror in 1066.
William the Conqueror, the great originator of English surnames. (a) He caused a list of his nobles to be placed in the Abbey built over his victorious battle-ground at Hastings. (b) He had a survey made of all his possessions and subjects which was recorded in a book called Domesday Book. (c) In these lists or records men were called by place names, nicknames, sire-names and trade names. Hence arose surnames, gradually and slowly until the habit was formed. By the 13th and 14th centuries most men had adopted surnames in England.
Lesson Statement.
England, like America, has been a melting-pot for the races and tribes of the earth; yet unlike America, England's various migrations were all from the Teutonic races, while America takes in nearly as many of the Latin, negro and oriental races as it has of the Anglo-Saxons.
England first had Britons and Celts. Next came the Angles and Saxons. Then came the Danes and Northmen who were all called Scandinavians in those days.


Finally, the Normans, who were Frenchified Scandinavians came over under William the Conqueror in 1066. The story of William's coming over is very interesting, for he was a great character. We think of Cromwell and Washington, of the Prophet Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, when we think of comparisons for William the Conqueror. Yet William was a man of his times and he was also a brave soldier. Read his story in the histories. He fought a great battle and at Hastings conquered the Anglo-Saxons and had himself proclaimed king of England.
The next day after the battle he told his clerks to make out a list of all his nobles and followers, especially those who had died in the battle, and to place them on an altar in a church or abbey, which he directed should be built on the very spot where he then stood; and this church was called Battle Abbey. He also made a law that at regular periods the priests of the new Abbey should pronounce masses for the souls of his followers who had fallen in battle at Hastings and at other points. We may say in passing that this custom of the Catholic Church is undoubtedly a relic or corrupted tradition of baptism for the dead.
This Battle Abbey list will be found in some surname books as it was preserved in a pretty fair shape through the ages, and in recent years it has been printed by the English people.
Men were known only by their first names at this period (1066 A. D.), but William wanted to make a census of his Norman nobles and his Anglo-Saxon subjects. Indeed, after he had divided up England and its rich lands and manors, seizing them from the Anglo-Saxons who had been conquered, he presented all the lands and properties in different amounts and lots to his barons and knights. In order to know just how much property there was in the kingdom and just how many men, he sent out a lot of clerks or heralds into every shire and had a census taken of the properties and of the men clear down to the last cotter in the kingdom. These names were written on sheets of parchment in Latin script and crowded together to save space, and all of them were gathered together and bound up in what is known as the Domesday Book.
Now, in making this list William's officers often spoke of the various men with the nickname, or as the son of, or as of a certain place, so that one William might be distinguished from another William in the same parish, and one John from all the other Johns. There would be William Fitz James, who was William the son of James; or William le Young, who was William Jr.; or Roger de Bois, who was Roger of the Wood; or Roger Cruickshanks, who was the Roger with knock-knees or bowlegs or crooked shanks.
Sons of these men found it convenient to continue the father's