[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Views of Jerusalem Charles W. Penrose]

Views of Jerusalem By Charles W. Penrose, Ye scattered descendants of Judah's seed, Who cling to the rags of a' time-worn creed, Your history's pages are marked with woe, And you wear the scar of Jehovah's blow. Dispersed from the land of your ancient pride, Where the Prophets lived and your fathers died, In every nation your forms appear, And "Jew" as a word of reproach we hear. The Moslem rules in the land of the vine; Where the Temple stood he has built his shrine. Briars grow now in the olive tree's stead, And over the country a gloom is spread. Once flowing with honey and milk and wine, And blest with the beams of a light divine, The soil of the cedars, which Seers have trod, Is withering under the curse of God. But we'll leave the past and the present too, And try of the future to catch a view: By the power of faith and the Spirit's aid, We must rend the vail and disperse the shade; For misty and curtained the future lies, And hid from the glances of mortal eyes. See! The splendor of heaven is coming down! For the shadows melt and the gloom has flown. Through the parting veil there's a pleasing sight: Bathed in the waves of the sun's warm light, A beautiful city I now behold, Shining with treasures of silver and gold: In the clean, broad streets there's a merry throng; There's the hum of trade and the cheerful song; In the market-places the merchants stand, Vast riches are passing from hand to hand, There are cattle and sheep, and fruits and oil, And garners of wheat from a yielding soil; There's the humble cottage, the business mart, And mansions adorned with the sculptor's art; _ And a mighty structure is being reared, Where the Great Eternal may be revered. The city is built on an eminence; The country arourid may be seen from thence; There's a verdant bloom on each field and tree, And the landscape smiles with fertility; There are tears of joy on the hills around, And the streamlets water the thankful ground. Ah! The scene is fading! Alas, 'tis fled! But a gleam of light on my mind is shed: The city I saw was Jerusalem; The people were branches of Judah's stem. Hark! A "still small voice" with a piercing sound Commands me to look on the scene around: Again do the shadows dissolve away,  Like the gloom. Of night from the king of day. But oh! How changed is the city now! Distress is depicted on ev'ry brow: The people are hurrying to and fro, And gazing with fright on the vales below. "Great God! What a host is around the place, To plunder and slaughter the Jewish race! With yells of triumph they come like a flood, Bedabbled and smeared with their victims' blood; And the sword-gleams flash in the lurid light From the houses fired in the dreadful fight. Hark! What a din! There's the cannon's peal, Mingled with curses, the flashing of steel, Shrieks from the wounded, and cries of despair— Music to Satan, and Death plays the air. Alas for the maidens of Judah now! For mercy shines not on the foeman's brow: Their tears he will mock, and laugh at their cry; No succor is near—no pathway to fly. Proud dwellings are rifled and battered down; Their treasures in heaps in the streets are thrown, And the conquered Jews in their anguish pray That the wrath of God might be turned away. In the Temple's courts are the Priesthood bowed, And around its walls there's a wailing crowd, And many are gazing with tearful eye Where two, who appear to be sleeping, lie. "Alas! For the Prophets are dead," they say; "They bid us prepare for the evil day: At length it has dawned with a thousand woes: Who shall deliver us now from our foes? O God of our fathers, we turn to thee! We sink in the waves of a stormy sea: Engulfed in the floods of a bloody strife, Jerusalem struggles, O God, for life! For Abraham's sake, whom thou called'st thy friend, Bid mercy step forth and its arm extend." And the cries of the people rend the air, As they beat their breasts and their garments tear. Ah! Surely their prayer has been heard on high, For the lightnings gleam in the cloudy sky, The thunder-peals burst with a vengeful sound, The mountains are trembling, the hills rebound, And the host has fall'n on the heaving sward, Blasted to death by a bolt from the Lord. The army is seized with a sudden fright; They shudder and quake at the awful sight: Some flee from the place where their comrades fell, But the earth gapes wide, and they sink to hell! With an awful crash do the buildings fall, Cov'ring the dead like a funeral pall, Entombing the living, a shrieking host; Blaspheming heaven, they yield up the ghost. The remnant still left of the Gentile crowd, In wildest confusion, with curses loud, Fighting each other o'er heaps of the slain, - And trying to flee, but they try in vain. VIEWS OF JERUSALEM But the rescued Jews, in their gladness raise To the great Jehovah a song of praise. And oh! What a sight for a-mortal eye! The forms of the Prophets no longer lie, And a light breaks forth from the murky skies, And the Prophets to endless life arise! And a mountain eastward is cleft in twain, While over its top is a shining train; From the heavens they come with their blades of fire, To punish the wicked with judgments dire. In the front is one with a God-like brow, Serenely majestic, white as the snow. His glances shoot forth like the lightning's gleam, And his bright hair waves like a rippling stream; His presence is mighty, subduing all, For the sons of Judah in worship fall; The Prophets approach with humility, And the Gentiles shake like an aspen tree. Jerusalem now is redeemed from woe; Destruction has come on the cruel foe; And the cry is raised, with united voice, "The Messiah has come! Rejoice! Rejoice!" And the Mighty One in the midst descends, Hails them as kindred, and calls them his friends; And they gaze with awe, as they bend the knee, For scars in the palms of his hands they see., "Oh, what are these wounds in thine hands?" they cry: They wait with forebodings for his reply. "Your fathers inflicted these wounds on me; They slew me, their Savior, at Calvary: Descended from Judah, of David's seed, I came to mine own, as the Lord decreed; I came to redeem them from sin and death: I am Jesus the Christ, of Nazareth!" _ And his rich voice rolls with its music waves, Like the ocean billows in rocky caves: From every eye do the tear-drops start, While they still rejoice; for in every heart Are mingled emotions of joy and pain, As the sunbeams shine on the falling rain, The rainbow of hope glows bright in each soul; He smiles, and away do their grief-clouds roll. "O ye sons of Judah," he says, "attend! Your troubles have come to a speedy end: Be obedient now; they'll return no more. Your fathers were stubborn in days of yore: i For their sins they were scattered through the earth; They brought a curse on the land of their birth, Entailed on their children distress and shame, And lasting reproach on their ancient name. Let the warning of the fast be heard And your future shaped by Jehovah's word, That his righteous laws you may understand, My servants shall come from a distant land, With power to seal, and bearing the keys To open salvation's deep mysteries. The blessings they seal on your heads shall be 71  Enjoyed by your latest posterity. To the spirit-land, where your fathers mourn O'er their days of sin, shall the news be borne, That their graves shall burst and their souls be freed, Through the work performed by their righteous seed. Here and in Zion's fair city I'll dwell, And reign over Judah and Israel. Here the wealth of the nations left shall flow, As the streams of earth to the ocean go; And your tide of glory shall backward roll To lighten. The Gentiles from pole to pole!" As the vision fades from before my eyes, I hear the hosannas to God arise; And a whisper as soft as the zephyr's sigh, Thrills my soul with the words—"The time is nigh." From the Millennial Star.