[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Gambling for the Glory of God Milton Bennion]

Gambling for the Glory of God Shall We Do Evil that Good May Come? Milton Bennion A hundred years ago it was customary to establish a lottery as a means of raising money to build a church. The appeal to the naturai human propensity to gamble was so effective that lotteries became generally established as a very attractive means of private gain on the part of their promoters and wholesale loss on the part of their patrons. The Congress of the United States recognized this evil by passing a bill forbidding the use of the mails in the conduct of lotteries. Laws and ordinances have also been passed by states and municipalities making the lottery or other gambling device a misdemeanor. The modern raffle, and other methods of drawing lucky numbers, and making lucky guesses are only variations of the lottery. Each and all appeal directly to the gambling element—a native tendency that it is the business of civilized society, and especially of the Church, to overcome: Notwithstanding the law and the disapproval of fhe general authorities of the Church, it still happens in some local churches that some sort of gambling is fostered as a means of more readily raising money for Church work. This, of course, means that appeal is made to an immoral tendency in human nature as a means of raising money to help these same people, and others, to be more godly! It is almost self-evident that there can be no sound social and moral life erected upon the basis of the gain of one at the expense of another. Material rewards cannot properly be sought, except upon the basis of industry applied in real service.. Gambling activity produces nothing. On the contrary, the effect of indulgence in this form of amusement is to destroy the finer sense of moral discrimination, to cultivate selfishness, idleness, ignorance, and thoughtlessness. These are the sources of moral degeneracy, the direct opposite of the qualities that make for character—sympathy, industry, intelligence, and thoughtfulness. In this connection the State is not blameless. For years it has been customary to attract crowds to the State Fair by selling concessions to carnival companies whose chief business it is to extract money from everybody's pockets through appeal to the gambling instinct. While the state is paying millions for the proper training of children and youths for  good citizenship, for the sake of a few thousand dollars in State Fair revenue, it deliberately provides these same children and youths with most corrupting forms of amusement. Can any organization afford to foster an evil in the etfort to secure a good? If so, might not the sale of moonshine liquor be a ready means of raising cash to build up the Church, or to carry on the educational work of the state?