[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

NOTES  overburdened, no matter where it is. Just a word and funds will be sent. A student from Tahiti recently died at the Maori Agricultural college. The Relief Society nearest the college, Korongata, has, offered to pay the burial expense should the parents be unable to meet it. Some time ago a honx burned down in a Maori neighborhood. Our Relief Society sisters went immediately to the rescue. They gave all they had in their treasury to help the mother and child, as the husband was away. On his return it was found that insurance covered the loss, but the sisters had given and would not be reimbursed They would rather that the family keep the money and get settled in another, better, home. Canadian Mission. Mrs. Margaret S. Jensen, president of the Relief societies of the Canadian mission writes that they have four active organizations at present; Winnipeg, Toronto, Hamliton and Brantford. The branches at Bracebridge and Preston have been disorganized because families from these localities have moved away, makin it impossible to maintain the organization. In the recent conferences held in these branches, special Relief Society meeting: were held which were very much appreciated by both the members and the missionaries. The following notes sent by Mrs. Jensel give an idea of some of the activities in this mission: Brantford: To a woman who was left a widow with five children and very destitute, the Relief Society gave emergency relief and later helped the mother to procure a position. A young man was found in a very poor condition suffering from heart trouble. The Relief Society took him nourishing foo: and bought supplies. A physician hearing of their good work. Offered his services free, and another charity organization hearing of what the "Mormon" Relief Society was doing, also assisted. Hamilton: With the help of the lady misisonaries, twentyfive days have been spent with the sick; three families helped with clothing and money. Toronto: Meetings have been held at different homes: tc help busy mothers sew. A family of Saints, recently from England, have been fitted out with winter's clothing. This was accomplished by holding several special sewing meetings. Preston. This branch was organized two years ago with six members. The members of this little branch have knit fifty-two pair of socks for the Red Cross, two sweaters, and paid out nearly $50 charity. Much credit is due the lady missionaries for their untiring efforts in all these organizations.  California Mission At the recent semi-annual San Francisco conference, a banquet was given by the Relief Society of the Oakland branch to all missionaries in attendance. Jaurez Stake Because conditions in Mexico are unsettled it has not seemed advisable of late years for the General Board members to visit this stake. Still the Relief Society work is being ably carried Hospital. This was a mother with nine children, Arrangement: were made with relatives to care for the children and the mother was graduated from the course in August, 1921, with a first-class record. The Mexican branch at Colonia Dublan consists of fifteen native members. These women are intensely interested in their work as the officers speak English, they read the Magazine falithfully and interpret it to their workers. They Jare at present studying Church history. The needlework done in this - are always ready to do any needed welfare work among thei neighbors, Beaver Stake Three of the Relief Societies in Beaver stake were reorganized during 1921. Beaver West ward officers who retired after serving eight years, were as follows: Mrs. Fances L, Jones; president; Mrs. Susan J. Murdock, first counselor; Mrs. Amelia M. Pearce, second counselor; Mrs, S. Jennie Tanner, secretary, Mrs, Jean Hales, treasurer, Mrs. Isabelle McGregor, organist; dent, Mrs. Jones had served thirteen years as a Relief Society ofiicer. Adamsville outgoing jofficers were Mrs, Margaret Pearce, president: Mrs. Sarah A. Jones, first counselor; Mrs, Mary A. Jones, second counselor; Mrs, Lizzie P. Reese, secretary; Mrs. Nellie Heslington, treasurer. A social in their honor was arranged. Mrs. Pearce has labored zealously as president for  twenty-six years, and has been an officer in the Relief Society altogether for 35 years. Retiring officers of Milford society, who had served two years, were Mrs. Retta Tanner, president, with Mrs. Maud Stoker and Mrs. Della Sevi, counselors; Mrs. Edna Bird, secretary; Mrs. Marie Tanner, treasurer, Mrs. Lucile Pitchforth, organist. Although some of these ladies have served diligently for about ten years, altogether, in different office: of the Relief Society, they have proved their loyalty to the cause by again consenting to accept new positions. The societies of this stake have adopted a home reading course from the standard Church works, which is proving to be very profitable. When the roll is called for the first meeting of every month, each one gives the number of chapters she has read from the Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants or Pearl of Great Price. The ward secretaries report monthly to the state secretary the total number of chapters read from each of the above named books. Fremont Stake Rexburg has sustained a great loss in the passing of one of its most beloved citizens and early pioneers, Mrs. Sophia N. Ricks whose death occurred near the close of 1921. Mrs. Ricks was among the first pioneers who came to the Snake River Valley in 1883, and was the first president of the Relief Society of the Fremont stake, which then included what is now Teton, Yellowstone, Fremont and Rigby stakes. She held that office for a goodly number of years and traveled many miles with her co-workers organizing and visiting Relief Societies. She was a faithful worker in whatever position she held and at the time of hes death was a ward teacher in the Rexburg First ward Relief Society. Her death will be mourned by all who knew her fo: her willing service to others and her great charity for het fellowmen. Mrs. Ricks was born May 2, 1857, in Denmark where her parents accepted the gospel and when. A child she came with them to Utah. In her young womanhood she operated a large dairy for a number of years in Cache Valley. She was the wife of the late Joseph Ricks, and was the mother of six children, five sons and one daughter. Logan Stake During the summer when there was no regular lesson work, the Logan stake arranged a special program for the stake and local officers' meeting by inviting all the ex-presidents in the stake to be present and to speak of the work done during their terms of office. Other special features were also arranged in their honor. Among the ex-presidents present were Mrs. Susan  Smith, one of the first members of the Relief Society in Logan Mrs. Anna Otte, who was president of the Relief Society i Copenhagen, Denmark, for six years; Louisa Sorensen and Marie Olsen, who had each been presidents in Christiania, Norway. Ward conferences have been held in each of the wards in this stake during the year 1921, with excellent programs. North Davis Stake Following is a compilation of a questionaire recently sent out by the North Davis stake Relief Society to the seven ward organizations: Is your society fully organized? Seven wards answered yes. Is your secretary interested in her work? Seven wards answered yes. Is her work satisfactory to the stake secretary? Seven wards answered yes. és Does she attend to all her meetings? Five answered yes; two, no.. Could she close and report her books at any time? Seven wards, yes. Are the Relief Society funds deposited in a bank? Sever wards, yes. Do you as a presidency meet and plan your work? Five wards, yes; two, no. Do you have a prayer meeting before your weekly meetings: Five wards yes; two, no. Are your teachers' books being used by your block teachers? Seven wards, yes. What per cent of your teachers are using your teachers' topics? Sixty per cent. During December, 1921, North Davis stake contributed a large supply of farm products and groceries to the Salt Lake stakes, for distribution among needy families. Among many other things, the consignment included the following; 459 quarts of fruit, 65 quarts of vegetables, 148 quarts of canned goods, 37 pounds of oatmeal, 45 pounds of germade, 1430 pounds of flour, 12 pounds dried fruit, 5 pounds of barley, 12 pounds of dried corn, 486 pounds of beans, 78 pounds of salt bacon, 12 bars of soap, 5 pounds of cheese, 50 pounds of sugar, 100 pounds of rice, 9 bushels of apples, 1000 pounds of squash, 100 pounds of wheat, 50 pounds of winter radishes, 50 pounds of cabbage, 100 pounds of turnips, 100 pounds of onions, 150 pounds of beets, 500 pounds of parsnips, 1400 pounds of carrots, and 190 sacks of potatoes. Other articles contributed were pickels, corn flakes, crackers, soda, butter, and overalls.