[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: The General Procession James H. Anderson]

The General Procession By James H. Anderson Germany owes the European entente allies 52,000 tons of gold. Where will she get it? San Francisco used more than 2,500 gallons of wine for piemaking in bakeries, at Christmas time. December has the highest record of any month in 1921 for robberies and burglaries in the United States. The total eclipse of the sun at Sydney, New South Wales, on Sept. 19, 1922, is to be viewed by delegations from all parts of the world. Wandamere Park, a beautiful summer resort adjoining Salt Lake City, was donated to the city in December, by Bishop Charles W. Nibley. Egypt furnished a vigorous rebellion in December, against British rule. It was quelled after considerable loss of life. American Jews have started to raise $14,000,000 for the aid of destitute and starving Jews in eastern and central Europe. The Methodist Episcopal church in the United States increased 90,404 in membership during the year ended December 1, 1921. A helicopter, or aerial vessel, which can rise and descend vertically, and fly without wings, has been tested successfully in Great Britain. Eugene V. Debbs, noted Socialist, sentenced in 1918 to ten years imprisonment for obstructing the draft laws in the United States, was pardoned on Christmas by President Harding. Europe is looking, at the opening of 1922, for America to devise some plan of universal peace and prosperity for the world. When confidence fails in that hope—war.  The Irish treaty, Great Britain's new arrangement with Ireland, has the approval of a majority of the Irish people, but the radicals there continued their outrages in December. Apostle David O. McKay, of Ogden, and Elder Hugh J. Cannon, of Salt Lake City, returned to Utah in December, from a trip around the world, visiting the L. D. S. Church Missions. Storms during the week preceding Christmas in Arkansas, Ohio, Mississippi, Louisiana, Kentucky, California and other States took a total of nearly 100 lives and millions of dollars in property. The Washington limitation of armament conference failed to eliminate the submarine, the aeroplane, and poison gas, as war devices, thus far doing little toward permament. Peace. A flying torpedo, said to be the most potent war weapon yet invented, underwent a successful test at the United States navy yard at Long Island, N. Y., in December. The American Workers' party, with delegates from various parts of the country, was organized in New York on December 24. The avowed purpose is to overthrow the American government and establish a "workers' government." Senator Reed Smoot of Utah has been selected as President Harding's spokesman on the tariff question now before the United States Senate, as the foremost authority upon tariff matters in the United States Congress. "A Negro Napoleon" is coming to be a leading topic of discussion in American newspapers, particularly in connection with the "self-determination of peoples" theory in Africa. Is the spectre of a negro or slave uprising about to alarm Europe? A Sinn Fein plot to blow up the city of Glasgow, in Scotland, was discovered and prevented by the police there, the day before Christmas. A large cache of weapons and powerful explosives was captured. British India, in the movement there to dispense with British rule, has two signers from Utah in a Christmas message of encouragement—Wm. H. Leary, dean of the lew school at the University of Utah, and M. P. Bales, president of the Utah Federation of Labor.  An Italian syndicate has proffered the seven million dollars necessary to make a good harbor at Jaffa, the port of Jerusalem, With the Holy City within the control of Great Britain and its -Port of Jaffa controlled from Rome, think what may happen. The British Journal of Astrology publishes a prediction that a great war will break out in Europe in 1926, and that a BritishIsrael victory over Bolshevism and Mohammedanism wil] result in 1932, the last battle being fought in Palestine, northwest of Jerusalem. WHAT WOMEN ARE DOING 'French 'women are importing Chinese girls as nursemaids, Twelve towns in Great Britain have women mayors, Over 500 "picture brides" arrived in Hawaii in 1921, to secure Japanese husbands there.. French girls are now permitted to go into society without the conventional chaperone. Mrs. Gunda Martingdale is Sheriff of Alamakee county, Towa, and is making a good record against lawbreaking. Juvenile delinquency among girls in Kansas has increased 1 per cent in 1921, from 1920,, juvenile court records there show. An International Federation of Working Women was organized at Geneva, Switzerland, in December, one Purpose being to Promote trade organizations among women, Mrs. Manora Sweetland, of Angola, New York, is 85 years old, a widow, and an expert telegraph operator and stenographer, still working at the latter profession. _ Miss Bernice Humbert, of the Kansas State agricultural college, is at the head of the engineering class there, with 1,200 male students trailing along behind.  Miss Mildred Kelly, bookkeeper at the Iuka, Ii, bank, headed a posse in search of bandits who robbed the bank in December, but the thieves escaped. In Paris, France, the Christmas fad in society was to give to automobiles the names of prominent women. In America, there is one feminine name for one machine—Lizzie. Madame Sun Yat Sun, wife of the president of the South China republic, was kidnapped by bandits and held for ransom in December, but later was rescued. Maturimania, or thinking they are more mature than their years indicate, is now declared by Miss Mary Bartelme, supervisor of female delinquents in Chicago, a most serious disease which threatens girls throughout the United States. Mrs. Lena Joyce, of Camas, Oregon, five feet one inch high, weight 110 pounds, is said to be the champion all round hunter of the Pacific Northwest, having killed cougars, bears, and other large, wild animals to the number of over 100. Ten women magistrates in Great Britain hold commissions signed by King George himself. Besides this, England has two women members of parliament and more than a score of women members in various town councils. Lady Astor, member of the British parliament, declared recently that "no architect should be allowed to plan a family house unless he is married and has three children, and then he should submit his plans to his wife." Siamese women, in a recent public discussion at Bangkok, Siam, on raising the age of consent there above 12 years, declared it could not be done because the Siamese girl reaches womanhood at the age of 12. Mrs. Alma White, head of the Pillar of Fire denomination in New York, in a Christmas sermon, declared that man's cupidity was responsible for women's immodesty in dress. The bared neck, for illustration, was a trick of the furrier and the jeweler. Zora Mehmed, a Turk who is visiting Paris, France, is 146 years old and has been married four times, gave a Christmas toast: 'Women, they may seem as sweet as the rosy dawn, but are more often like thorns, hidden by only a rosy exterior." No wife survives him to respond.  Mrs. Howard Phelps, an employe of the American State department, is official map-maker at the limitation of armament conference in Washington, and is called on to answer many questions as to boundaries and spheres of influence of many nations. Elena Sanchez Acuna, a bright Mexican girl 12 years of age, is proving such a wonderful violinist that the City of Mexico has provided funds for her to finish her education in the musical centres of Europe, as she has reached the best that the Mexican masters can provide. Mrs. Elizabeth Penwick, of Essex, England, is 105 years old, has never seen a "movie" or had her photograph taken. -On Christmas day she said, "I live because I have God's blessing." She advises people to observe their spiritual duties, have regular habits, and avoid worry and tobacco. About 3,000 women composed a strike-mob during the coal miners' strike in Kansas in December. Miss Alice Robertson, woman member of Congress, in a speech in the House, denounced the Kansas women's actions as "a disgrace and an insult to the womanhood of America." Mrs. T. P. O'Kelly, wife of Capt. O'Kelly, superintendent of the marine department of the Hudson Bay Company, returned from Alaska on Christmas day. She was the first white woman ever seen by the Eskimos at Coronation Bay, northern British Columbia.. CHEWING GUM AND SCHOOLS "The records show that the people of this country pay out more money annually for chewing gum than for schools, and that there are quite a number of fathers who will display more bad temper over buying their child a 50-cent arithmetic for a year's use than over a week's supply of tobacco at twice that sum.'—Georgia State Superintendent of Schools. CORRECTION In the sketch of Jerusha Walker Blanchard, written by Nellie Story Bean in the January Magazine, through an error, it was stated that Julia Murdock was married to her brother, John R. Murdock. EDITORIAL Lntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -: - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager - - - - - -. -. Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager. - - -. - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 22, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol IX FEBRUARY, 1922 - No.2 JEALOUSY. Am I jealous? If I am, what is my motive? Of whom am I jealous? What is the cause of jealousy, the extent? What is its cure? Has it any value in our lives? ' We are told by the ubiquitous dictionary that jealousy "is an apprehension of another's superiority to ourselves,' While one who is jealous is "uneasy through fear of, or on account of preference given to another, fearful of the success of a rival, apprehensive of rivalry, suspiciously vigilant." There is another definition of which we should not lose sight. Jealousy as used sometimes in the scriptures has a large meaning and is compounded of righteous qualities.; If, as we are told, the cause of jealousy roots in our inferiority, then indeed should we rid ourselves, first of the inferiority, and second, of the envious feeling begotten thereby. It is sufficient for me if I can fill my Own pint measure, without fretting for one moment concerning the quart measure of my neighbor, some of my material with which to fill his own. He may rob me of my opportunities, but he cannot dispossess me of my character. He may disqualify me for place or position through his opposition or through evil gossip; but he is powerless to hinder my development into becoming his equal or the equal of anyone living; that is: equal in character. We are never equal in opportunities, in gifts, nor in worldly position, but we are all equal before the Lord.