Identity—Who You Are meeting in Carmarthen, South Wales, about 1848 with the intent of making fun. As they listened to the two missionaries, Sarah Jane believed what was said. After a few more meetings, she told her father she wanted to be baptized. He became very angry and tried many ways to get her to give up the new religion. But she could not—she knew it was true. Her friends threw rocks at her. With tears and heartbreak she was finally forced to leave home without money, clothes, or any other belongings except what she was wearing.

She walked eighty miles to a coal mining town where two married sisters lived. When she got there her shoes were worn off of her feet and her feet were bleeding. One of the sisters took her in and she started to work in the coal mines, where girls were employed to shovel the coal. While working there, her hand was crushed in an accident. It was so seriously injured that the local doctor advised amputating it. She begged him to delay the operation and he granted one day. She had complete faith she could be healed if the elders could be found, and so prayed constantly for them to come.

That night they came, telling her she literally prayed them there. They administered to her and their combined faith was so efficacious that when the doctor arrived expecting to operate, he marveled at the change and decided the operation was unnecessary. After working hard and saving every possible penny, she sailed alone for America. This was only the beginning.

With joy she gave her testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel as she had been led to it. Now there came a feeling over the whole room. A soft, warm, penetrating feeling. Our belonging to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints one of luck? No! It had been hard earned by someone who was willing to be lonely, by many who had sacrificed all they had for the precious gift of the gospel.

This then led to many more stories of great-grandparents, and grandparents, and their struggles to remain faithful—enduring heartache and disappointments. And then we as parents bore testimony of times of spirit when we had had to decide which path to take. Ever the stories brought the lifeline closer to that first empty line.

And now they knew that each one of them would place his own name at the head of the entire sheet. Each generation had remained faithful and now they were the link to keep it unbroken.

"Now," we said, as we took our youngest daughter by the hand, "Sue, as you look at this sheet pretend that another sheet just like it is extending into the future on the other side to the left. Here you are as the one with lines spreading from you not only from the past but also to the future—you alone hold both lines. Someday you will be the mother with children and then the grandma. Will your children look back on just such a sheet and have pride and gratitude in their hearts as you have right now for them, because you made the right decisions? They, too, will bless you because you chose to marry in the temple so they could be born under the covenant. Now you know who you are. You know how important you are. You know that what you do now is important."

One by one, we took each child through the same route, mentioning perhaps different areas in which they might have to make a major decision—always repeating at the end the same, "Now you know who you are." They stood alone and they felt responsibility weigh importantly heavy upon their own actions. No longer were they to go off and claim it didn't matter what they did. They held hands with the eternities—past and future—and became the link between where they had come from and where they were going.

Now they knew, and we knew they knew who they are, and it gave purpose to them to seek out why they are here. Looking only to the past to the deeds accomplished by ancestors can bring a shallow, dangerous false pride. But when they see themselves as a definite part of the future, it brings to immediate focus their own responsibility now.

Major decisions—such as the use of drugs or whether going on a mission is important, or what to do with free time in the service of our country, or whom to marry—do not come in one great decision. Such decisions are festered or cured with that cautious tested step forward one at a time. It is the small slips to the right or the quick one to the left—the decisions which would unbalance my tightrope walker—that I want to reinforce and reinforce again so as to keep that line taut as he carries his own balance rod. With a slack line there can be no sure footing.

It has been only within recent years I have been made aware how that prayer was answered. For now my children are old enough that by its fruits it has been tested. Time and time again I have used it and have seen it work on young and old. A subtle way to help them strengthen their own decisions when temptation would seem so powerful as to make them sway.

When, with small voice or crying out inside, they ask themselves, "What does it matter? Who cares? It's my life!" Sarah Jane Richards had not much to give to her loved ones save love itself. And that was borne in trailing clouds of sand and dust that followed in our stormy way behind the ceaseless, toiling caravan where she bore her son in winter's years.

Her face so fair that ever as we went did stir the winds of envy, but she clung to me as vines enforce the walls they hold. When she left, the tears I could not bear to see her shed washed down the river of an old man's heart.

My