The expansion of missionary work, despite persecution and the many difficulties confronting the saints in building a commonwealth in the West, brought many stakes into existence in fulfillment of "prophecy." (D&C 101:20-21.)

Event number five will continue until the second coming of Christ takes place.

Concerning the sign of the Son of Man, the Prophet Joseph Smith said:

There will be wars and rumors of wars, signs in the heavens above and on the earth beneath, the sun turned into darkness and the moon to blood, earthquakes in divers places, the seas heaving beyond their bounds; then will appear one grand sign of the Son of Man in heaven. But what will the world do? They will say it is a planet, a comet, etc. But the Son of Man will come as the sign of the coming of the Son of Man, which will be as the light of the morning cometh out of the east. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 286-87; Matt. 24:30; Luke 21:25-27; D&C 88:93.)

The Prophet said concerning one Hyrum Redding that he had not seen the sign, for the Lord would make it known to his prophet:

... He has not seen the sign of the Son of Man, as foretold by Jesus; neither has any man, nor will any man, until after the sun shall have been darkened and the moon bathed in blood; for the Lord hath not shown me any such sign; and as the prophet saith, so it must be—"Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but He revealeth His secret unto His servants the prophets." (See Amos 3:7); Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 280.)

Class Discussion

In view of the predicted signs preceding the second coming of Christ, why would you consider that we are living in the last days?

Preparatory to the coming of the Lord—in power and glory is the return of the ten lost tribes. After the death of King Solomon the ten tribes became a kingdom known as Israel. (James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith, p. 325.)

The Assyrians took them captive in 721 B.C., and they were led northward and were lost to the world. (Jer. 3:12.)

These tribes are lost to us but not to the Lord. He told the Nephites that the lost tribes have their own scriptures. (2 Ne. 29:11-14.)

In modern revelation it is said that they will bring their rich treasures with them from the land of the north. (D&C 133:30.)

It is further given that a highway will be cast up from the deep, and their enemies will be unable to stop their journey. (D&C 133:26-34.)

The coming of the Lord to which reference is usually made in the scriptures is his coming in great power and glory when the wicked will be destroyed. There is more than one appearance of the Savior, however, as a part of his second coming.

The Prophet Joseph Smith said that in the last days the inhabitants of the world would be divided into the following three categories: (1) the saints, (2) the Jews, and (3) the wicked world. (DHC, Vol. 4, p. 610.)

The second coming of Christ will consist of appearances to these three groups.

The scriptures indicate that the Lord will suddenly come to his temple. (Mal. 3:1.)

The Savior came to the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836, as a partial fulfillment of this prophecy. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. 3, pp. 12-13.)

Another visit of the Lord with the saints will be held at Adamondi-Ahman, located in Daviess County, Missouri. (D&C 116; Teachings of The Prophet Joseph Smith, page 157.)

This conference will be attended by those who have held the keys of the priesthood during the dispensations of the gospel and others invited to the assemblage.

It will apparently be unknown to the world and also to the saints not in attendance. (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection, pp. 287-91.)

The Savior will appear to the Jewish people when they are sorely beset by the armies of the earth.

Judah will be redeemed through acceptance of the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ to dwell in the Lord's presence. (D&C 133:35.)

The wickedness of men will prevent them from abiding the presence of the Lord. (D&C 133:41-51.)

President Charles W. Penrose describes this coming of the Lord in this manner:

He comes! The earth shakes, and the tall mountains tremble; the mighty deep rolls back to the north as in fear, and the rent skies glow like molten brass.

He comes! The dead saints burst forth from their tombs, and "those who are alive and remain" are "caught up" with them to meet him. [I Thess. 4:17.]

The ungodly rush to hide themselves from his presence, and call upon the quivering rocks to cover them.

He comes! With all the hosts of the righteous glorified.

The breath of his lips strikes death to the wicked.

His glory is a consuming fire.

The proud and rebellious are as stubble; they are burned and "left neither root nor branch." He sweeps the earth "as with the besom of destruction." [Isa. 14:23.] He deluges the earth with the fiery floods of his wrath, and the filthiness and abominations of the world are consumed. Satan and his dark hosts are taken and bound—the prince of the power of the air has lost his dominion, for he whose right it is to reign has come, and "the kingdoms of this world have become the Kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ." [Rev. 11:15.] (Roy W. Doxey, The Latter Day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, Vol. 4, p. 476.)

Wherefore, prepare ye for the coming of the Bridegroom; go ye, go ye out to meet him. (D&C 133:19.) Only through The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints may one be fully prepared to meet the Lord. (Wilford Woodruff, Young Woman's Journal, Vol. 5, pp. 512-13.)

There shall be those among the members of the Church who will not be prepared, some being foolish while the prepared will be wise. (D&C 63:54; Wilford Woodruff, JD Vol. 18, p. 110.)

What is there in the gospel that will aid the member of the Church to be among the wise? No other people on the earth _ have the knowledge successfully to be in this class.

Some of the important teachings which prepare one for this blessing are: (1) the knowledge that the gospel with the priesthood have been restored, (2) Joseph Smith is a prophet and his successors have held the same high calling, (3) modern books of scriptures, (4) continuous revelation, (5) relationship of man to God, (6) the doctrine of premortality, (7) the purpose of life, and (8) the knowledge of and reality of the future life.

Class Discussion

Why do you think that knowledge of the foregoing facts helps a person to be prepared for the second coming of Christ?

With so much evidence to support the truth as it has been restored, the Latter-day Saint is well fortified to follow the Lord's instructions as they have come from his servants.

What specific things should one do to be considered wise? The following are suggestions: (1) remain out of the world, (2) accept priestLesson Department hood programs, and (3) secure one's family.

Go ye out from among the nations, even from Babylon, from the midst of wickedness, which is spiritual Babylon. (D&C 133:14.)

The call has gone forth that Israel is to gather into the fold of Christ in preparation for the Lord's coming. Members of the kingdom have made covenants that they will not partake of worldly influences or practices. (D&C 20:37, 77, 79.)

How may one prepare oneself so that he will not be deceived by the blandishments of the world?

Be close to the Church; find strength by Church attendance; study and live the revealed word of the Lord so that it will be easier to know the genuine from the spurious; seek the Spirit; and acquire the virtue of humility.

Class Discussion

What does it mean to live in the world and yet not be of it?

Priesthood programs of the Church are: genealogical, home teaching, missionary, and welfare. These programs are as much for the women as for the men. Upon each member of the Church devolves the responsibility to participate in all of them.

As an example, although a woman does not do home teaching, she can promote the spirit of this important activity in her home by encouraging the priesthood members to do their duty and also to provide the atmosphere for good home teaching in her own home.

Class Discussion

How does activity in the priesthood programs of the Church help a woman to prepare herself for the second coming of Christ?

Marriage in the temple provides a stability to a marriage union which the Lord intended. Since the family is designed to be eternal, every step necessary to preserve the marriage bond should be undertaken.

Without the sealing ordinance by the priesthood in the temple there is no possibility of exaltation in the celestial kingdom. (D&C 131: 1-4; 132:16-17.)

The Lord has said that people are to be saved as families; consequently, he commanded that parents should teach their children true principles that they might be saved with them. (D&C 68:25-31; 93: 47-49.)

Two practices stand out prominently as necessary to preserve parents and children in righteousness.

Family prayer binds families together, provides spiritual strength for the tasks of the day, and fulfills individual opportunities to acknowledge the Lord's hand in all things. (D&C 59:21.)

The second important practice is the Family Home Evening Program. Probably no better opportunity is afforded both parents and children to learn together.

The outlined course of instruction provided by the Church, if followed, will bring family unity and improved individual character into the lives of all participants.

Latter-day Saints know that Christ will come to rule and reign on the earth in a period when there is great unrest and tribulation in the world. Many signs indicate that his coming is imminent. He will come in power to destroy the wicked. (D&C 101: 23-24.)

Before this appearance he will come to the saints and also to the Jews who will have gathered to the Holy Land. The time interval between these three appearances is not indicated in the scriptures. It is probable that the period between the coming of the Lord to the Jewish people and to the world will be short.

The wise Latter-day Saint seeks to learn gospel principles that he may not be deceived by the many ideas which are contrary to the truth. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1: 37.)

By this knowledge about his relationship to God and his fellow man, he receives the incentive and strength to prepare himself to avoid the temptations of the world.

By the power of the Holy Ghost further strength and knowledge are received for this purpose. Specifically, the member of the Church is then qualified to remain out of the world though he lives in the world. His witness of the truth is such that he accepts his covenant responsibilities by being an active member. He makes every effort to receive the Lord's marriage ceremony and to rear his children in light and truth. (D&C 93:36-40.)

The Latter-day Saints remember that they are representatives of the ten virgins mentioned in the Lord's parable, who may be either wise or foolish; consequently, they seek to be numbered among the wise.

They Lesson Department will not be cast into the fire, for they look to the day when this promise is fulfilled: And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and _ they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation. For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their lawgiver.