Immortality and Eternal Life
Lesson 2: Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 
Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lessons 6 and 7.)

Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

To point out that understanding the difference between immutable, spiritual and physical laws and the regulations which apply to them, may influence one's attitude toward the regulations.

Our Heavenly Father, with infinite wisdom and understanding, seemingly reveals admonition and warning to his earth children when that counsel and commandment may be most needed and rewarding. How beneficial the divine counsel may be depends upon our willingness to accept and follow the revealed commandment. In lessons 6 and 7 of the current Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, President Clark points out several occasions when this divine counsel and warning have been given to us. (Other examples might be cited.) This correlating lesson considers these occasions and also distinguishes between the principle involved in the law and the rules and regulations which make possible the enforcement of the law.

Again, much will be quoted directly from the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study since President Clark's clarification of the subject is both logically and interestingly expressed.

Consider the example of ancient Israel to whom the law of the Lord was given, by way of restraint, in the affirmative commandment of the Decalogue, "Thou shalt have no other gods before me." (Exod. 20:3.) How needed this commandment was at that particular time is evident when we recall that Israel, newly emancipated from Egyptian bondage, was spiritually weak as a result of having lived for generations in an idolatrous land. The liberated people were now moving into a land (Canaan) inhabited by a people who likewise were idolators, worshipping many gods, and practicing human sacrifice. These environments were not compatible with the life the chosen people were to live if they were to carry out the work which God had planned for them. The idolatrous practices were not consistent with the building of a personal moral life nor with the building of stable homes upon which a Lesson Department righteous and sound society is dependent.

President Clark states: God's work could not then, and cannot now, be maintained in partnership with a worship which calls for the heathenish practices of human sacrifice and grossly immoral rites. Our own civilization cannot be preserved in the presence of such heathenish practices, for a moment's reflection will show how human sacrifice would outrage every feeling of humanity that generations have fostered.... In our time when the Western world has come to a worship of one God only, the need for such a commandment, as among ourselves, is no longer necessary, unless it is to be applied figuratively. (It may be parenthetically observed that such an application might not be a strained one, for modern man-chas, in a too large extent, made materialism his god.) (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 6.)

Thus we see how important it was for this restraining commandment to be given at that particular time.

Another example of restraining counsel given in a time of special need is the law of health known to us of today as the Word of Wisdom. We discuss it here:

1. As a restraint or forewarning given at a time of special need.
2. As an example that truth, although relating to the physical body, is as unchanging—unless some other law intervenes—as the immutable laws governing other areas of the physical universe.

Although the Word of Wisdom was revealed to us before scientific research had given us the confirming facts of which we now are aware, modern science supports the claims of this law of health. An interesting point of view is clarified by President Clark:

It is demonstrated that nicotine, alcohol, tannin, and caffein exert their effects upon the body, and the Lord and modern science say these effects are harmful. These effects are visited upon us whether we wish the effects or not; whether we consent to them or disprove them. These noxious things enforce their own mandates against the body, no other agency is necessary or used. This is the law.

Some complain about the Word of Wisdom as if it were a rule of conduct imposed upon them by the Church authorities and so a rule that could be changed by the Church authorities. In accordance with this idea certain persons have suggested changes or modifications of the Word of Wisdom. But the Word of Wisdom is not a rule of conduct; it is a law—the Lord's law—of health. It was promulgated by him. The law existed before he told it to us; it would exist if the revelation were blotted out from the book. The Church authorities have nothing to do with the law. God, speaking through the forces of the physical world, has prescribed it, and so long as those forces exist, the law will remain.

It is therefore the foolish ignorance of a child to assume that the First Presidency can issue a rule that will permit the use of any of these injurious things without their harmful effects. It would be an easy and, in one sense, a pleasing gesture, as satisfying Church members who wish to use these harmful substances to declare the Word of Wisdom no longer existent. But such a declaration would be no more efficacious than a declaration that the law of gravitation no longer operates.

(Ibid., lesson 7.)

For Discussion
1. Perhaps you are one who has wished that the Word of Wisdom might be modified or withdrawn. If so, does the foregoing approach to this law of health add a new dimension to your thinking?
2. How may the attitude toward the Word of Wisdom presented by President Clark improve one's thinking relationship to the Church authorities?
3. Would young people be influenced more favorably toward acceptance of this divine admonition if they were taught from the beginning that it is not merely a restraint imposed upon them by the Church but an unchanging law of health?

It is relevant to recall that the Lord also gave a law of health to ancient Israel during the days of wandering in the wilderness.

It was a dietary and sanitary code, given through Moses, and was founded on scientific principles. One of the prohibitions of that code was that the Israelites should not eat sea foods unless they had fins and scales. President Clark states: Today we eat many wholesome seafoods that do not meet this ancient requirement. Again it must be said that it is not for me to attempt to suggest the reasons why the Lord gave this great law, nor the reasons why he made this and other dietary distinctions. But looking at the matter from the point of view of human knowledge, one reason why the Lord forbade such things to ancient Israel might have been the extreme perishability of certain sea foods which would not be found either in the wilderness or in Palestine, seafoods which rapidly decay, and which, in decaying, generate poisons destructive of health and, indeed, of life itself. Ancient Israel had no such rapid transportation as would enable the delivery of such food materials while they were still fresh, and no refrigerating processes by which they might preserve such sea food materials pending the time they were to be eaten. Under such conditions, even a wise human lawgiver would today enact such a law as was given to ancient Israel, and for the reasons I have suggested. But in our time, with our rapid transportation, our efficient refrigeration, such seafoods may be properly preserved and, so preserved, seem as wholesome as other sea foods that have fins and scales; the Lord has not forbidden these foods to us and we eat them.

(Continued)

Does this discussion by President Clark give you a different point of view as to this ancient dietary code? Discuss briefly.

By way of comparison it may be observed in passing that the difference in the character of the two codes of laws given and of the things proscribed in each is an important illustration and example of how God speaks to a people in accordance with their stage of knowledge, their culture, and their surroundings. I do not pretend to say why the Lord gave to Israel some commands and withheld others. But this much may be said. It was seemingly unnecessary to forbid the use of tobacco, tea, and coffee to ancient Israel, for apparently they knew nothing of these things; and alcoholism though forbidden to the priests under certain conditions and discountenanced to the people, had not taken hold of them. It was unnecessary in our day to give the intimate instructions of the Mosaic code concerning sanitation and diet because science was revealing to us the laws relating to such things and we were generally obeying them. But our science had not yet reached, when the Word of Wisdom was given, accepted conclusions upon drugs and narcotics, nor upon the effects of alcoholism which had become almost a besetting sin. In this situation the Lord revealed his modern law of health. So God spoke to each people in the language and terms they understood and in accordance with their needs.

Application Applying this same reasoning to teaching within the home, discuss the following questions:

Lesson Department

1. What are some of the important restraints suitable for children under twelve years of age?
2. What are the restraints most needed by teenagers, generally, but not needed by older children in the home?
3. Do mothers frequently wait to give admonition—restraining requests—until it is too late for the child to receive the blessing that obedience would have brought? Discuss.

As a Lamp We frequently fail to distinguish between the principle of the law and the regulations established to help us live the law. If we do not consider the basic purpose and principle of the law, we may develop unwarranted, prejudiced attitudes. We may resent the regulations, failing to see that they are as a lamp guiding us to the blessings which obedience would inevitably bring. We also forget that the basic truth of the law, being immutable, does not change although the rules and regulations may change from time to time according to our conditions and needs.

Illustrations from situations in this lesson

Example 1:
a. The basic law is "... Evidently the Lord's... People must be healthy and clean."
b. The code of dietary restraints was regulations intended to help ancient Israel remain healthy.

Example 2:
a. The basic law of health would apply to the Lord's people today as anciently.
b. The Word of Wisdom, which implements the Lord's law of health, is intended to help us today remain a healthy and intelligent people. The law of health and cleanliness has not changed but the regulation to secure obedience to the law has changed with the change in the manner of our living.

Implementation

1. Name some restraining laws which are useful and important to you, where the regulations are not now needed because of your increased knowledge.
2. When we were children we were forbidden to eat excessively of certain foods. This was the regulation of our household. The law of moderation is still important to me but, knowing the undesirable effects of excessive eating, I no longer need this household regulation.
3. Other examples of regulations follow:
a. When a man in a crowded bus, subway, or other similar situation gives up his seat to a mother carrying an infant, he is carrying out a socially enforced regulation in support of the law of consideration for womankind.
b. The code of desirable behavior taught to the Boy Scouts also illustrates the difference between regulations and such specific laws as: honesty, patriotism, kindness, health, first aid, survival.

An Important Factor

There is a difference between the operation of unchanging physical laws of the universe and the operation of intellectual and spiritual laws. In the latter, the human will is an important factor. The personal will of an individual may modify the exercise or penalty of the law. For example, let us say that the penalties for breaking the law of honesty are:
1. Loss of personal friends.
2. A guilty conscience.
3. Forfeiting the confidence of others.
4. The tangible effect of one's dishonesty upon those who suffer loss because of the dishonest action.

If, however, this person through personal will power repents and puts himself in a position to be forgiven, the penalty is modified much as the asbestos gloves may modify the burning effects of heat. Other examples may be suggested and discussed.

Conclusion

The concluding remarks of President Clark in lesson 7 of the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study are a fitting conclusion for this lesson: It is the first duty of... Latter-day Saints prayerfully to seek to know the law that they may render obedience to it, and next to learn the rule and regulation that they may diligently and reverently study them, that they may understand, know the reasons for, and live them. Many will be surprised to learn how understanding wipes out prejudice, resentment, and rebellion against those rules of life which make for righteousness.

A This much may be said with certainty and with no possible successful challenge: The people of the Church will search in vain for any law or rule or regulation of the Church, obedience to which will not make them better citizens, give them a richer cultural life, and bring to them a greater joy and peace; than they have ever before known; they will search in vain for law, rule, or regulation, obedience to which will bring any lasting shade of sorrow or tinge of regret. This cannot be said for much of the new "freedom" which too many unthinking have taken into their lives.

For Home Doing Help yourself to freedom by trying to live in harmony with the laws of life, both spiritually and physically.