[Young Hearts Are Fragile by Olive W. Burt]

Young Hearts Are Fragile Olive W. Burt HE superintendent of the Children's Aid Society was very kind.
Martha felt that kindness spreading out from the calm gray eyes and the gentle mouth above the strong chin, spreading out and enveloping her like a bland ointment on her hurt heart. "T''m sorry, Mrs. Lewis," the quiet voice was saying. "I recognize your need and it is a very real and urgent one. But," she hesitated and then went on firmly, "please try to understand our position. Our concern is first of all for the children in our care. 'They need homes and love, yes; but they need more than just that. 'They need to live out their destinies—" Martha stared at the woman.
What was she trying to say?
What was the message behind her words? Was she intimating that she and Bill would not let the child live out his destiny?
That was absurd. Why, they would do everything in their power to improve and enrich that destiny!
They would give him everything Danny had had—Danny— The superintendent — glanced down at the filled out forms on her desk. "Your son was an only child, Mrs. Lewis. He was a wonderful boy—a shining, golden personality. And he died as he had lived, brilliantly —a hero."
Martha felt the rent in her heart aching again as it always ached when Dan was mentioned. It was a tender ache, a proud ache, for Dan had been more than they said. He had well earned every tribute given him. But there was something lacking in the speaker's voice. She spoke of Dan calmly, honestly, but without that tinge of envy that crept involuntarily into most women's voices when they spoke of Martha's son. It was almost as if she didn't think that being a hero was so much. "You would find our little boys are not like your Dan. Not one of them, I think." Of course not!
Martha thought.
There is no one in the world like Dan. "But we'd do our best to make him—" Martha began, and was stopped by the coldness that froze the smile on the superintendent's lips.
That is what we feared, Mrs. Lewis. You and Mr.
Lewis have an ideal in your hearts — an ideal no child could equal in your estimation. We do not want to place these children in situations that will make for unhappiness for them— and for you, too; but, mainly, we are concerned with the children. No, I am afraid that, desperately as these children need the homes that have been denied them, we must reject your application."
Martha could not believe the words.
Reject their application!
There was something wrong here. She stood up, angry, suspicious. "Is there something I have neglected," she asked cruelly, "a preliminary bonus?"  378 A faint flush rose with difficulty in the clear cheeks of the superintendent, who also rose. But her voice was still calm and quiet. "Yes," she said, "I am afraid there is something you have neglected, Mrs. Lewis, to put the child's need before your own." She gathered up the papers with a gesture that dismissed Martha, and, trembling with anger and hurt as if she had been slapped, Martha turned and hurried out of the room, down the dim hall, and into the street.
Bill would hear about this.
Bill would do something! Half-blinded by the sunlight, Martha stumbled actoss the street to the comforting green of a doll-sized park against the gray of pavement and buildings. She sat down on a bench, shaking with anger and disappointment, and watched the children playing around her, only half-seeing their bright, fluttering figures, only halfhearing their tinkling voices. It was going to be terrible, telling Bill this. She couldn't make him understand, because she didn't understand, herself, what was wrong.
Maybe she would if she thought about it awhile. She hadn't understood about the little baby, either, at first.
Probably her perception had been dulled by her sorrow, because before Dan's death she had been quick enough to catch and interpret innuendoes. T had been hard to persuade Bill that they should adopt a baby to take a tiny measure of the empty space left in their hearts with Dan's going. 'Their hearts had been so full when Dan was there—his sturdy masculinity demanding so much, his  ardent love of life filling them, completing them, spilling out of their hearts into affection for his playmates, his schoolmates, his buddies, his girl friends.
There had been no emptiness then, At last, Bill, seeing her need, had said, "Of course, honey, if that's what you want. But a baby will be hard work—and you're not as young as you were when Dan was little. And I'm afraid you're going to be disappointed, too. But if you want to try it—" With no more encouragement than that, she had gone to the baby placement bureau and applied for a child. "We want a boy—a husky, blond, athletic type," she had stipulated, feeling that they would enjoy the child more if he resembled Danny. If Bill could teach him to fish and swim and play football and _baseball, he might forget, just a little, what he had lost. She had filled out the proper forms. She had been eager at the interviews. She had spoken freely of their hopes and plans and of what they would do for the baby. "We can give him everything he needs or wants," she had said, not boasting, but hoping to impress the authorities. "We have a lovely farm—we haven't gone there for two years, but the lease is soon up. We can take the baby there—give him a pony—our Danny loved his pony and was a wonderful rider—" The woman had asked once, "Would you consider a girl baby?" and Martha had hesitated. She, herself, would love a little girl, but Bill —it would be difficult enough for a boy to take Dan's place. How YOUNG HEARTS ARE FRAGILE could a girl fit in? She had managed to convey this to the matron, who seemed to understand. But in the end it hadn't mattered, for it turned out that there was a tule against giving tiny babies to couples as old as Martha and Bill. She had been surprised. Somehow, she had thought any agency would be glad to give a baby to them, who could do so much for it.
Their own boy had been an example of their fitness as parents—Dan, gay, eager, well-adjusted, healthy. But after she thought about it awhile she could see that they were right. She had never thought of herself or Bill as old, but they were centainly not young—and it had been a long time since Dan had been a baby.
Maybe they would find it difficult to cope with a lively little fellow. Martha's problem was to explain this to Bill in such a way as not to hurt him, in such a way as to leave the path open for some other solution. HEN the time came, she couldn't tell whether Bill was relieved or disappointed. 'There were so many things about Bill that she couldn't understand nowadays.
They were in some ways so much closer together, so much more dependent upon each other for happiness and companionship. And yet there was an invisible wall between them—a wall of fearfulness lest one hurt the other. Then Bill had said carefully, "A little baby might not have been such a good idea after all. But perhaps we could get an older child. I understand there's some society that finds homes for older children."
That had convinced her.
Bill was counting on this, too, to ease 379 the hurt that grew more and more terrifying as the empty weeks went "She had looked up the society Bill had mentioned and had made application there. She had been excited when she returned home after the preliminary interview, when she had seen the children in their classrooms. "Oh, Bill! I'm sure this is better. We can see what they are like— we can find one that just suits us.
They are so nice, the people in charge.
They say it's important that the child suits us and that we suit the child. We'll find one that likes skiing and tennis. He can have Dan's room, and Dan's trophies and cups will give him an ideal to live up to." And then, after all, their application had been denied! Slowly, feeling every one of her forty years like a separate burden upon her, Martha rose from the bench and walked slowly home to the empty apartment, emptier now, since she had dreamed of it filled with blond and boisterous youth.
When she told Bill that night after dinner about the agency he took it more calmly than she had hoped. He reached out for her hand as she stood before him, hurt and angry, and drew her down onto his lap, cuddling her, making a child of her in his utter need. "They're right, honey," he said huskily. "It wouldn't work out for us. For some folks, yes, but not for us. We've had the best—"' his voice faltered.
After a moment he went on, "You can't tell what they're like —even a kid of six or seven. He might look like Dan—a little—but 380 what if he turned out to be stupid, or a coward? I'd hate having him around."
Martha leaned against him, comforting him, but the shadowy wall between them was thick and impenetrable. And _ before them stretched long, empty, futile years of remembering.
Bill set her from his knees and rose and began to walk restlessly about the room.
Before long he said, as he said so frequently of late, "Tve got to get out for a few minutes. Do you want to go for a walk?"
Weary as she was, she nodded silently, and they went down onto the street, quiet in the shadows and solitude of the night.
They began to walk—to walk until they could return home, physically _ tired enough to sleep. URING these walks Martha felt nearer to Bill.
Here they walked silently, with no pretense at gaiety or at casualness. 'The poplars whispered above their heads and from open windows scraps of music floated out. But they were alone and unobserved, even by each other.
There was no conscious direction to their steps, and neither one knew just where they were, when a sudden noise recalled them from their world of shadows.
They were approaching a square, official-looking building, with a lighted globe above the doorway. At the curb, opposite the door, a knot of men and boys were leaving cars, and it was the scuffling among these that had caught their attention. "What's happening, Bill?"
Martha asked, trying to reidentify herself with the real world around her. 
Bill glanced up at the building and understood at once. "This is the police station," he said. "Looks as if some kids are being rounded up." "Kids?" she asked. She stared at the group moving across the sidewalk; at the officers, big and husky with guns at their hips, and at the boys, dragging back, hitching their bodies as far as they dared, their boldness brought to a sharp edge by the hone of fear. "Oh, Bill!
What have they done?"
Bill shrugged. "Stolen a car, maybe. Or snatched a purse. Or broken into a cigar store. No telling what a kid will do." Suddenly, right in front of them, one of the boys, the very smallest one in the group, gave a quick twitch to his shoulder, broke from the policeman's grasp, and darted past them down the street. The officer yelled and started in pursuit.
Martha wanted to put out her foot and trip the officer. She wanted to, but she didn't. She just stood there, watching. And in a moment the officer came back, panting, dragging the boy with him. "BILL" Martha whispered, "can we go in? Can we find out what they've done and what will be done with them?"
Bill looked at her. "It won't be fun,' he said. "They're probably a tough little gang. We'd better move on and let the law handle this." "Tm not going to interfere, but I've got to see, Bill. I couldn't sleep if I didn't." | They followed the group inside the station and to the booking YOUNG HEARTS ARE FRAGILE sergeant.
Martha stood just inside the doorway, holding Bill's arm, her eyes searching for the little fellow who had almost got away. He stood with the others, but apart from them, a skinny, dirty little youngster in soiled levis and a ragged shirt. The belt around his middle was drawn tight, and Martha felt like crying at the tiny girth of leather, as if there were not much more than backbone to circle. His eyes were downcast, and Martha found herself wondering what the eyes would be like, and wishing the child would raise his lashes so she could see. As she watched, he did raise his eyes and looked towards her, and there was no miracle there.
Their brown irises seemed opaque, so that Martha could not see into them at all, could not read what went on behind them.
Instead of being disappointed with this, Martha felt sad, as if it were somehow her fault. She began to listen to what was being said in the room, and had no difficulty in discovering that this was a band of juvenile car plunderers for whom the police had been hunting a long time. One of the boys, a youngster of about fourteen, seemed to be the leader. The little fellow who had tried to get away wouldn't talk when they spoke to him, wouldn't give his name, so the leader spoke up for him. "He won't tell nobody his name," he said. "Call him Skinny. Skinny Jones will do." He shrugged. "He's kinda dumb, someways, but he's little and quick—" So they make use of him, Martha thought angrily. She turned to Bill. "What will be done with them?" 381 "They'll get hold of all the parents they can.
Some of the boys will probably be taken out to the boys' home on South State. 'Tomorrow they'll investigate more thoroughly.
Some will be sent to the State reformatory—" "But if that little fellow won't tell his name—" "They'll get it. Don't worry." | iene then Skinny raised his arm and wiped his nose with one long swipe of his ragged shirt sleeve, his brown eyes wide and hard and unwavering. The pitiful inadequacy and helplessness of that gesture caught Martha's heart and twisted it tight. "Let's get along," Bill said, but Martha stood still. "Wait, Bill. Wait."
When the boys had been taken out of the room, Martha stepped up to the sergeant's desk. "What about a little fellow like that—Skinny?" she asked, absurdly anxious to know that things would be all right with him. The sergeant looked down at her and smiled. His eyes were gray and kind with little crow's feet to humor at the corners. "Don't worry about him, ladv. We'll take care of him." "But you don't even know his name—or his mother—" "It won't be hard to find. He'll talk before morning—they all do when they're caught for the first time, even when they're as tough as that kid." "Tough?"
Tough enough to keep his eyes dry, but not his nose! "Look, lady," the sergeant said, "they're a tough gang, and he's tough or he wouldn't last ten min- 382 utes with them. His mother you ask about is probably tough, too. We have 'em every night—kids like this.
During the war their dads went gallivanting off to big war plants and their mothers went out to grab off some of the big money that was floating around. The kids had to shift for themselves. And we knew that's the way it was, and hoped it would soon be over. "But now many of those dads don't want to come back and pick up their old jobs and old families again; and the mothers don't hanker after working at home for nothing. So they chase whatever moncy they can find, and the kids are still left to get along as best they can. They've had half a dozen years now to grow tough in, and believe me, lady, they can't be handled like the kids you're used to knowing. Surprisingly Bill spoke up. "Isn't there something that we could do, officer? Don't you parole these kids to reputable families?" The sergeant smiled. "] haven't seen many reputable families asking for them," he said.
Then he nodded. "Yeah, that's the theory—but who wants to take in a kid like that? Listen, you folks don't know the score. Go home and forget it. Or if you can't forget it, if you really want to do something, come back tomorrow and talk to the captain."
They went out into the street, Martha clinging to Bill's arm. "T don't want him to stay there a single night," she whispered, tears choking her. "And of course when his mother knows—" "The sergeant's right about her, probably," Bill said, and went on  thoughtfully, "but that kid isn't bad—yet. You know, I got in a jam like that once—" They walked along in silence, Martha waiting to hear, knowing that Bill had never told her this because, though it had been of tremendous importance to him at the time, there had never been a place for it in their life together. VEAH," he said at last, "I got m with a gang that stripped light fixtures from empty homes.
They called my mother and she I wish you could have seen her.
Some of the mothers came weeping and wringing their hands as if their kids were ruined for life.
Some came down swearing at the cops as if their kids had done nothing at all, mother came down, calm and quiet "She talked to me, not the cops, and she made me do my own talk. Ing to them. I don't know how to explain the way I felt—ashamed of myself for what I'd done, but proud of my mother and proud to be man enough to own up and take my medicine. And I was determined I'd never get into a mess like that again," After a long time he said, "Skinny needs someone that knows how to handle a thing like that—I wonder if his mother does."
Martha was unable to sleep, thinking of Skinny in a room full of tough boys; talking, as the sergeant had promised he would, because that ridiculous nose of his would not give him any peace with the tears crowding back of it, hurting his eyes and his throat. And she YOUNG HEARTS ARE FRAGILE knew that, beside her, Bill wasn't sleeping, either. She wasn't surprised then, when Bill said the next morning after breakfast, "Guess Ill drive down and see what happened to the kids.
Want to go along?"
Martha nodded. She had remembered in the night about the little baby and the boy that had been denied them. It was no use, and she wished now that she could keep this last disappointment from Bill. In those last weary hours before dawn, she had resigned herself to forget Skinny and all other small boys and to accept the dreariness of her empty heart. MARTHA was amazed at the sure and determined manner with which Bill approached the captain.
When he mentioned the boys that had been brought in the night before, the captain nodded, looking at the report sheet before him.
Most of those boys are old offenders," he said. "They will be committed to the State industrial school." "Not that little one—Skinny?"
Martha breathed. "Well," the Captain frowned. "His mother was located and talked to. She isn't a fit person to have charge of him and she doesn't want to be bothered." "But there is a parole for adult criminals," Bill protested, "what about paroling the kid to us?" The captain looked at him. "You don't know what you're taking on, Mister," he said gruffly. "When his mother finds out that you're interested, she won't hear of adoption. She'll let you take him and then hope to get something out 383 of you through the kid, and as soon as he begins earning money, his mother will pop up and demand him back again. And it just means that you folks, with the best intentions in the world, will have your hearts broken."
Martha looked at him. "Our hearts broken?" she asked softly. "Captain, it's the young whose hearts are fragile. Let us help! If we can only keep his heart from being destroyed—" It was a long time after that before they were finally seated in the car, actually on their way home, with Skinny tucked between: them on the wide front seat.
Martha glanced carefully down at the shock of dirty, black hair. 'The brown eyes had not lost their opaqueness, their secretiveness, and they stared ahead, unquestioning, unanswering. The captain had explained that this custody was temporary. 'The case would have to come before the Juvenile Court, and then a licensed social agency would place the boy in a foster home—perhaps in Martha's home. As Martha watched him, Skinny lifted his arm and wiped his sleeve across his nose, not sniffling, not admitting weakness, but driven to that gesture by the forces that were relentless within him. Bill's hand left the wheel and reached for his handkerchief.
Handing it casually to Skinny, he said, "Blow hard, Son!"
Only then did Martha remember Dan. | Never another Dan, she thought.
This is our new son.
This is Skinny. And suddenly all in the car were at peace. El] Paso and the Latter-Day Saints Sadie Ollorton Clark President, Houston, Texas, Branch Relief Society T was in April 1910, that Porfirio | Diaz finally became alarmed over the brewing Mexican revolution. He threw the frail idealist, Francesco Madero, into the San Luis Potosi prison and thereby ended a third of a century of absolute dictatorship.
Little did he realize that a forced American migration would follow this act, nor did the unsuspecting Latter-day Saint colonists know how soon they would have to flee from their homes, or which families would be responsible for a new stronghold of the Church —the yet unborn El Paso Ward. The location of the city of El Paso has much to do with it's colorful history. 'The first name, "Fl Paso del Norte," means the "northern pass." The Rio Grande River, at this point, flows through the cactus-covered mountains, creating the best natural passage from the north to south in many desert miles. It was equally important as a station in stage-coach days, and was the key point in a transcontinental railroad building race in 1881. In the sixteenth century the venturesome Franciscan friars, traveling from Mexico City to Santa Fe with the Spanish explorers on the dusty Camino Real would give thanks for the grateful shade of the cottonwoods growing on the banks of the river, and would rest at this oasis in the desert. 'Today, cross-country tourists find this modern city a natural breaking point in a journey east or west. 
American historians tell us the first white visitor to this colorful land was Cabeza de Vaca, the only survivor of the shipwrecked Navarez expedition of 1527. He found his way to this area in 1536 and was welcomed by the Indians living there. He was never able to explain why one tribe after another looked upon him as their God, asking him to heal their sick and bless their food and their children. For the next three hundred years this territory was under Spanish and Mexican rule. As a result of the battle of San Jacinto in April 1836, it became part of the Republic of Texas. In 1846
Texas was annexed by the United States. Of interest to Latter-day Saint readers is the fact that Alexander Doniphan was the first man to bring the American flag to El Paso. This was in 1846, during the wat with Mexico. Doniphan was loved by the Missouri saints because he befriended them in the unhappy days when they were expelled from Jackson County. When he was ordered to execute the Prophet Joseph Smith he refused, and told his superior, "It is cold blooded murder. I will not obey your order. If you execute these men, I will hold you responsible before an earthly tribunal, so help me God." The chief settlement in those exciting days was on the south side of the river. El Paso was known as "Franklin," and was too small to be very well-known. The Mormon Courtesy, Chamber of Commerce, El Paso, Texas VIEW OF MAIN BUSINESS SECTION, EL PASO, TEXAS  386
Battalion crossed the desert a few miles north of the village, in 1846, on their journey to California. In 1876, Anthony W. Ivins, with a party going to Mexico, camped on the north bank of the river, and shot a deer on the spot which is now the center of the city. In 1897, the Church Authorities asked Isaac W.
Pierce to go to Cuidad Juarez and open up a lumper yard for the benefit of the people living in the timber regions of Chihuahua. He was the first Latter-day Saint to live in this locality, and his residence was a home for all friends going to and coming from Mexico. The first Church services in that city were held in his own house. Isaac Pierce was truly a benefactor to hundreds of travelers who came to him for aid, and he kept up his good work as long as he lived. He died in 1906. His son, Arwell L. Pierce, carried on his father's business as well as his interest in the Church. In 1912 he moved from Cuidad Juarez. He was the first Latter-day Saint to make a permanent home in El Paso, and when he moved there the Church came with him. But: in 1912, the old order passed in Mexico. One of the first demands the revolutionists made was the evacuation of the Latter-day Saints who had sought refuge in their land.
Because of the Edmunds law, which was passed in 1882, a small group of Church members felt that the only way 'they could keep their families together was to leave the United States and make Mexico their home. In the decade preceding the turn of the century, they migrated to this south ern country.
Though few of them gave up their American citizenship, they all had come to look upon Mexico as their homeland.
Their buildings were permanent, their plans for the future were all to be fulfilled in Mexico. But suddenly, and without warning, orders were given to leave..
Villa and his bandits were moving in on the villages, and it was worth a man's life to stay and defend his property. The colonists had prospered in Mexico, and the homes they left behind were spacious and beautiful. 'They were denied time enough to salvage their portable possessions.
Beautiful china, valuable silver, precious keepsakes and _heirlooms were all left to be confiscated or destroyed by the marauding outlaws. J. W.
Wilson of El Paso tells that he was in bed with a broken back, in the village of Pearson, when word came that Villa was on top of the mountain near the little town. The Americans left, wasting no time. Mr.
Wilson refused any offers of help. He crawled to the top story of the house and hid himself. 'Through an attic window he watched the bandit army as it marched through and ransacked the town, looting, robbing, and even killing several of the native — citizens, then riding on. When Mr.
Wilson did leave Mexico, he came, as most of the refugees did, to Cuidad Juarez on the train. He says: The railroad was so badly torn up and so many revolutionists were on it, that I was just two weeks from the time I left my home until I crossed the bridge into FE] Paso at three in the morning. The Mexican soldiers searched me and took all the cash I had before they would let me come across. When I landed on the EL PASO AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS
387
American side I looked up and saw the Stars and Stripes waving for me. Never did that flag look so good to me before.
This was typical of the condition of more than 3500 people. They came to El Paso destitute and penniless. Their American citizenship was not questioned, but the town was not prepared for such a multitude. The officials of the city did all they could to help them, but the townspeople received them with mixed emotions— pity for their plight and hesitancy about taking in so many of a despised people.
As there were no houses ready for them at the time, the refugees were unloaded at a lumber yard, and as long as they were in desperate need the United States government fed them. Without any delay, the separate families set up housekeeping between piles of boards and shingles, making the best of what they had until they could improve their situations. The unconquerable pioneer spirit of these people showed itself in these trying days. It would have taken a greater catastrophe than this to make them give up. While the women cooked and washed over the campfires, husbands and fathers surveyed the town for jobs and vacant houses. Within a week, over half of them had found work and had rented homes. Before a month had passed the entire company had left the lumber yard.
MMEDIATELY after their arrival. Senator A. B. Fall asked for a government appropriation for their immediate aid, and money to send them any place in the United States where they had relatives to help, or an assurance of work. Approximately seventy-five per cent of the refugees accepted this aid, and left El
Paso. Most of them went to Utah, but many of the people decided to remain, and it is they who became
I LATTER-DAY SAINT CHAPEL, EL PASO, TEXAS

388
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGA2INE— JUNE 194$ the nucleus of the present El Paso
Ward.
They and their children have become respected citizens of the border city. Many of them are now prominent in business, political, and professional circles. They have built beautiful and substantial homes, and, all in all, take an important part in the community. One of the beauty spots of the El Paso valley is the country home of Bishop
George Q. Payne. It is built of native stone, typical of its surroundings, but it is unusual because of the variety and beauty of the flowers and shrubs which grow in profusion in his gardens. The arid and rocky soil of this country can produce vegetation, but it takes labor and devotion to beautify even a small yard.
The saints of the El Paso Ward take great pride in their chapel. For years the erection of a suitable meetinghouse was the common aim and desire of every Latter-day Saint family in the vicinity, and practically every member has some personal interest in it. It cost approximately
$75,000 and compares favorably with the most beautiful and expensive chapels in the Church today. The building is a modified Spanish type, in keeping with the best architecture of the city. The lawns are always green and well-kept, even during the winter. The custodian.
Otto Baptist, a convert from Belgium, takes special pride in the upkeep of the Church property. He is, and has been, the only custodian since the chapel was built in 1931.
A friendly and gracious spirit seems to radiate from the walls of this sacred edifice, and to the members it is indeed a second home. On Sunday mornings they gather on the patio and visit in the warm sunshine. After the evening meeting the foyer is crowded with a friendly, handshaking group who refuse to leave until the last light is turned off. The membership of the ward is constantly increasing because visitors, first impressed by the fraternity and feeling of fellowship the members show for one another, are willing to listen to the truths of the gospel.
The El Paso Ward has had only two bishops. Arwell L. Pierce was ordained the bishop in 1918 when the ward was first organized, and he remained in that position until 1942, when he was called to preside over the Mexican Mission. He, more than any other one individual, is responsible for the growth and the happy condition of the ward. He has been a prominent business man for many years in El Paso, but his greatest interest has always been in the welfare of the Church and the people who came to it. His home has been a haven for visitors going to or coming from Mexico, and most of the General Authorities of the Church have enjoyed his hospitality. Because of his unusual possession of a dual citizenship, and also because of the great respect he commands, he has been able to render service to thousands of travelers who have had difficulty in crossing the international border.
Whether it was a misunderstanding of the language, laws, or personalities, a call to Bishop Pierce would generally solve the problem.
Bishop George Q. Payne has carried on this excellent work. He guided the ward through the war

EL PASO AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS 389 years, when, be cause of the prox- Stake. Its membership now totals imity of Fort BHss to El Paso, hun- around 700. A high percentage of dreds of Latter-day Saint boys were the people are active in Church able to come to Church. Special work, and a most gratifying number
Priesthood classes were held for pay a full tithing. Officers travel these service men. The M.I. A. 250 miles each way every month to planned a full recreation program, attend union meetings at Safford, and no Latter-day Saint boy needed Arizona, and several high council to investigate the night clubs on the members and stake officers are mem-
Mexican side of the river for enter- hers of the El Paso Ward, tainment. There were seventy-two The dauntless and lofty spirit boys who served under their coun- which has always characterized this try's flag, from the El Paso Ward. group seems to be diffused into all
The El Paso Ward was first a part who have later come to make El of Juarez Stake, with headquarters Paso their home. Although it was in Mexico. In 1919 it was annexed born of revolution and bloodshed, to the St. Joseph Stake, and when its ultimate destiny seems to be a St. Joseph was divided. El Paso be- working unit in the kingdom of came a member of the Mt. Graham God.
[Pastoral
Gene Komolo
Above the emerald herbage-covered hills,
A shining dawn arises from the night
And one full-throated song thrush blithely trills
A paean for the largess of the light.
Kissed by the sun and rippled by the breeze,
Grainfields are like imbricate amber seas.
And pastures that are broad and lushly green
As David's own, with fatted cattle teem.
From a near hillside, bells on browsing sheep
Sound, drowsily, a low idyllic lay.
And quiet, soft-fleeced, lambs still lie asleep,
Unmindful of the re-created day.
Here, at this hour, abide content and cheer —
For peace, from strength of work well-done, is here. a Shall Qo On TTlu Wau
Josephine J. Harvey Catherine Renstiom
I shall go on, I prayed to God for help;
But with the dawn Not the easy way, he said;
The realization grows If your shoulders are broad
That you have gone! And your heart is brave
I cannot forget Your burden will make you strong.
And yet So I took up my burden and went
I must go on. my way
And my burden became a song.

Orchid Hunting in Honduras
Elizabeth Williamson
I promised to tell you about our cinated scientists and archaeologists orchid-hunting expeditions (un- are in finding and developing their scientific! ) here in the center of special interests. We were only
Honduras. As you remember, I amateurs and knew very little, technever cared particularly for orchids, nically or botanically, but we were Of course, we were thrilled at school spurred on by the hunt, the reward when someone sent us a corsage —the fun in general. We never with an orchid in it, but I was im- knew what species would be repressed not so much by the beauty vealed. If we made a find we could and rarity of the flower as to why bring it back— give it to a collector anyone would spend five dollars for or hang it on a nail in our patio, an orchid when ten cents worth of water it occasionally, and it would violets would have made me happy! thrive and bloom like mad. (Inci-
Anyhow, Fve changed my mind, dentally my favorite find was a pale
Orchids are magnificent! And, fur- green orchid about one inch in dithermore, Fve learned to like them, ameter. It grew in a cluster of three
Some are so tiny it is difficult to see or four. I never saw one like it the structure of the bloom. They again and didn't identify it.) come in all sizes, shapes, and colors. We usually went in groups on They grow wild, and are unculti- our hunts, people who liked to vated. The native women gather hike primarily (but the not-tooand bring them down from the strenuous type). In one of our mountains in basketfuls on their groups there was an archaeologist, a heads. They sell them for fifty naturalist and his wife, a young centavos a bunch! (twenty-five cents Swiss outdoor man, an artist, and in our money). usually another couple for good
We first became interested in measure. (All of the people in the orchids while we were picnicking group were interested in photograand, accidentally, found some on an phy.) old oak tree. They were a beautiful the most inaccessible places, high in more people and specimens. The an old (and very rotten) oak tree, day I remember particularly well beor on the side of a cliff. cause of the loot was the Piovi-
From that day on, we were ab- videncia Day. sorbed in orchid-hunting. Some- Providencia is an orphanage farm thing like searching for pirate's for small boys. It is a lovely place treasure— I can understand how fas- in the pines about seven miles from
Page 390

Josef Muench
"ORCHID QUEENS"
Page 391

392
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— JUNE 1949 town. In the main building we could get refreshments served by the Swiss in charge of the orphanage.
The surrounding country is very much like our own mountai n country in northern Arizona or New Mexico. Or, as a matter of fact, almost anywhere where there are pines and a scant undergrowth. The elevation is about thirty-five hundred feet. It seemed strange to hike through pines and oaks and suddenly come upon a banana plant or a palm tree. Otherwise we felt quite at home.

At the beginning I felt rather dubious about the snake situation, but during the two years we were there I never saw a snake. Doubtless, there are many at lower altitudes. However, there were plenty of seed-ticks and red bugs—not harmful, but annoying beyond description.

On Providencia Day we left the orphanage farm and took a trail through the pine woods. The naturalist was helpful in pointing out new plants and birds. The Swiss explained the correct walking technique. (It was amazing how it worked and helped!) Frequently we took little side trails on our own, searching and discovering this and that.

That day we heard a whistle from a distance and saw the naturalist walking rapidly towards us. When he reached us we asked him what had happened, what he had found. He was disturbingly calm and said, "Come along, I want to show you something magnifico!"

We went down a path until we came to a hollow which looked like a deserted banana grove. We climbed through overgrown brush and tangled vines, down into the bananas. I imagined I could see little bright eyes peering at me, eyes of unknown creatures waiting to bite, sting, or wrap themselves around my body and squeeze me to death! Nothing happened. Then at the bottom of the grove we were told to turn around and look up.

We saw a beautiful thing—a small cliff banked solidly with fragile white orchid blooms. Some had turned to yellow. We discovered later that although they remained fresh and firm, they turned yellow before they died. True to form it was almost impossible to reach them. However, we carried back a few specimens. They were identified later as "Estrella del mar"—Star of the Sea.

We thought it a most satisfying day and relaxed contentedly over our refreshments in the orphanage patio. The Swiss lady in charge was exuberant about our discovery. She probably knew where many other orchids were hidden which she had passed by on her numerous rides through the country by burro back. But she also knew it was much more fun and soul-satisfying to make these discoveries ourselves.

P.S. When we were ready to leave the orphanage each of the women in the group was presented with a huge bunch of violets from the Swiss lady's own garden! FICTION

Young Hearts Are Fragile
by Olive W. Burt

THE telephone was ringing as Marilyn came down to breakfast, and she could hear her mother's voice from the kitchen.

"Oh yes, Mrs. Wilson, she's right here. Just a minute." Then louder, "Marilyn, it's for you."

Marilyn hurried to the phone, her heart beating a little faster. Could it be—? But no, of course not. Jerry was still angry with her.

"Hello?" she said.

"Marilyn, this is Mrs. Wilson. I'm calling to ask if you'd be willing to take care of little Bobby for me this afternoon while I go to the dentist. I know it's short notice, but—"

"Why, yes, Mrs. Wilson, I'd be glad to." Marilyn tried to keep the disappointment out of her voice. She had hoped it might be Jerry calling to make up their quarrel.

"Fine. Could you come over about one-thirty? I should be back by four."

"Yes, I'll be there."

Marilyn hung up the phone and went into the kitchen where her mother was fixing breakfast.

"Baby-sitting job?" her mother asked.

"Yes. Mrs. Wilson wants me to stay with Bobby this afternoon." Marilyn sat down at the table and poured orange juice into her glass. She wasn't very hungry.

Her mother glanced at her sympathetically. "Still no word from Jerry?"

Marilyn shook her head. "It's been four days now, Mother. I guess he really meant it when he said he never wanted to see me again."

"Oh, darling, I'm sure he didn't mean that. You know how boys are—they say things in anger that they don't really mean."

"But this was different. You should have seen the look in his eyes." Marilyn pushed the scrambled eggs around on her plate. "I was so stupid, Mother. I should never have gone to the dance with Brad when Jerry asked me not to."

"But, honey, Jerry was being unreasonable. Just because Brad used to be your boyfriend doesn't mean you can't be friends with him now. And when Brad asked you to the spring dance—"

"I know, I know. You told me I should go, that Jerry was being too possessive. But maybe I should have listened to Jerry instead." Marilyn's voice was close to tears. "Maybe I've lost him forever."

Her mother came over and put her arm around Marilyn's shoulders. "Don't say that, dear. If Jerry really cares for you—and I think he does—he'll get over his hurt feelings. Give him a little more time."

But how much time? Marilyn wondered as she walked to school. How long could she stand this awful feeling of emptiness, this constant ache in her chest where her heart used to be?

At school she saw Jerry in the hall between classes, but he looked right through her as if she weren't there. In English class, where they usually passed notes back and forth, he kept his eyes on his book the whole period. At lunch time he sat with Bill Henderson and some of the other boys, and never once looked in her direction.

Marilyn sat with her friend Sue and tried to pretend she was interested in the conversation, but all she could think about was Jerry. How happy they had been just a week ago! They had been going steady for three months, and Marilyn had thought—had hoped—that Jerry cared as much for her as she did for him.

Then Brad Morrison had come back to town. Brad, whom she had dated all last summer before Jerry came into her life. Brad, with his easy smile and smooth ways, who had hurt her so badly when he had dropped her for Sylvia Barnes just before school started.

When Brad had called and asked her to the spring dance, her first impulse had been to say no. But then Jerry had been so angry, so unreasonable about it.

"I don't want you to go with him," Jerry had said, his jaw set in that stubborn way she knew so well.

"But, Jerry, it's just a dance. Brad and I are just friends now."

"Friends! Don't be naive, Marilyn. Brad Morrison doesn't ask girls to dances just to be friends. He dropped you last fall, remember? Now he wants you back."

"That's not true!"

"Isn't it? Well, you'll have to choose, Marilyn. Him or me."

And in her hurt and anger at his ultimatum, she had chosen Brad. Just to show Jerry he couldn't dictate to her, she had gone to the dance with her former boyfriend. And she had paid for her independence with the loss of the boy she really loved.

The afternoon with little Bobby Wilson was a welcome distraction. The four-year-old was full of energy and chatter, and Marilyn found herself forgetting her troubles as she played games with him and read him stories.

"Tell me about the princess again," Bobby demanded as they sat on the front porch after his nap.

"Which princess?" Marilyn asked, though she knew perfectly well which one he meant. It was his favorite story.

"The one who loved the handsome prince, but he got mad at her and went away."

Marilyn smiled sadly. Even Bobby's favorite fairy tale reminded her of Jerry. "Well," she began, "once upon a time there was a beautiful princess who lived in a castle—"

"With long golden hair," Bobby interrupted, reaching up to touch Marilyn's blonde curls.

"Yes, with long golden hair. And she loved a handsome prince who lived in the next kingdom. But one day they had a quarrel, and the prince rode away on his white horse and said he would never come back."

"But he did come back, didn't he?" Bobby asked anxiously.

"Well—" Marilyn hesitated. In the fairy tale, of course, the prince always came back and they lived happily ever after. But this was real life, and real life didn't always have happy endings. "Yes," she said finally, "he came back. Because he loved her too much to stay away forever."

"Good," Bobby said with satisfaction. "I like happy endings."

So do I, Marilyn thought. If only life were like the fairy tales.

When Mrs. Wilson returned from the dentist, Marilyn walked slowly home, dreading the long evening ahead. Would Jerry call? Would he have gotten over his anger by now? But the phone remained silent, and Marilyn spent the evening pretending to study while her heart kept listening for the sound that didn't come.

The next day was Saturday, and Marilyn had no school to distract her. She helped her mother with housework and tried to read, but everything reminded her of Jerry. The book on her desk that he had given her for her birthday. The pictures in her dresser mirror—snapshots of the two of them at the basketball game, at the beach, at the school carnival.

In the afternoon she walked downtown, hoping perhaps to run into him by accident. She saw his car parked in front of the drugstore and her heart leaped, but when she looked inside he wasn't there. She wandered aimlessly through the stores, bought a magazine she didn't want, and finally went home feeling more miserable than ever.

That evening the phone rang, and Marilyn's heart jumped. But it was only Sue, wanting to know if she was going to the movie that night.

"Jerry's going to be there," Sue said carefully. "I saw him talking to Bill about it."

"Then I'd better not go," Marilyn said quickly. "I don't want to make things any more awkward than they already are."

"Marilyn, this is ridiculous! You can't spend the rest of your life avoiding places where Jerry might be. This is a small town—you're bound to run into each other."

"I know, but—"

"Look, why don't you come with Tom and me? We'll sit in the back, and if it gets too uncomfortable, we can leave early."

Against her better judgment, Marilyn agreed. She spent an hour getting dressed, changing her mind three times about what to wear. She finally decided on the blue dress that Jerry had always said was his favorite, then changed to a yellow one so he wouldn't think she was trying to appeal to him.

At the movie theater, she saw Jerry immediately. He was sitting in the middle section with Bill Henderson and two other boys. Her heart did its familiar leap at the sight of his dark hair and broad shoulders. Then he turned his head slightly, and she saw his profile, the firm line of his jaw that she remembered so well.

Sue steered her to seats in the back, and Marilyn tried to concentrate on the movie. But her eyes kept straying to Jerry's figure several rows ahead, and she found herself memorizing the way his hair grew at the back of his neck, the set of his shoulders.

During intermission, when the lights came on, she saw him stand up and stretch. For a moment she thought he might turn around and see her, but Bill Henderson said something to him and they walked out to the lobby together. Marilyn stayed in her seat, afraid to risk an encounter in the crowded lobby.

When the movie was over and the lights came on, Jerry was gone. He must have left before the final scene, Marilyn realized. Had he seen her and left to avoid meeting her? The thought was like a knife in her heart.

"Want to stop for a Coke?" Tom asked as they left the theater.

"No, thanks. I think I'll just go home." Marilyn tried to sound casual, but Sue gave her a sympathetic look.

At home, she went straight to her room and sat on the bed, staring at the phone. Should she call him? Should she swallow her pride and tell him how sorry she was? But what if he hung up on her? What if he refused to talk to her?

She reached for the phone twice, then pulled her hand back. No, if Jerry wanted to make up, he would have to call her. She had tried to apologize the day after the dance, but he had walked away without listening. The next move would have to be his.

Sunday morning she dressed carefully for church, knowing Jerry would be there with his family. She had always looked forward to Sundays, when they would sit together during the service and walk home afterward, planning their week. Now the thought of seeing him and not being able to sit with him filled her with dread.

At church she saw the Martins in their usual pew—Jerry's parents and his younger sister Carol. But Jerry wasn't with them. Marilyn's heart sank. Was he staying away from church just to avoid seeing her?

After the service, she spoke to Mrs. Martin, who had always been friendly to her.

"Hello, dear," Mrs. Martin said warmly. "How are you?"

"Fine, thank you." Marilyn hesitated, then asked as casually as she could, "Is Jerry all right? I didn't see him today."

Mrs. Martin's expression grew troubled. "He's not feeling well, I'm afraid. He's been quite moody lately—not himself at all. I think he's coming down with something."

Marilyn nodded and murmured something appropriate, but inside she was thinking: He's not sick. He's just as miserable as I am. The thought gave her no satisfaction—only a deeper sadness that they were both suffering because of their stubborn pride.

That afternoon she sat in the garden, trying to read, when Carol Martin appeared at the back gate.

"Hi, Marilyn," the fourteen-year-old said shyly. "Can I talk to you?"

"Of course, Carol. Come sit down." Marilyn was fond of Jerry's little sister, who had always looked up to her with hero worship.

Carol sat down on the garden bench beside her, looking troubled. "Marilyn, what happened between you and Jerry? He won't tell me anything, but I know something's wrong. He's been just awful to live with—snapping at everyone and moping around the house."

Marilyn felt a surge of hope mixed with pain. If Jerry was as unhappy as she was, maybe there was still a chance. "We had a quarrel," she said carefully. "Sometimes these things happen."

"But you're going to make up, aren't you? You have to! Jerry's crazy about you—anyone can see that. And you love him too, don't you?"

"Yes," Marilyn whispered. "Yes, I do love him."

"Then why don't you just tell him so? Why do grown-ups have to be so complicated about everything?"

Out of the mouths of babes, Marilyn thought. Why indeed? Why was she letting pride stand in the way of her happiness?

"Carol," she said suddenly, "would you do me a favor? Would you give Jerry a message for me?"

Carol's face lit up. "Oh yes! What do you want me to tell him?"

"Tell him—" Marilyn paused, searching for the right words. "Tell him that I miss him. And that I'm sorry about everything. And that if he wants to talk to me, I'll be waiting."

Carol jumped up excitedly. "I'll tell him right now! Oh, Marilyn, I'm so glad! Everything will be all right now, you'll see!"

As the young girl ran off, Marilyn felt a mixture of hope and terror. Had she done the right thing? Or had she just set herself up for more heartbreak?

The hours crawled by. Marilyn tried to read, tried to help her mother with dinner, tried to concentrate on anything except waiting for the phone to ring. But her eyes kept straying to the silent instrument, and her heart jumped every time she heard a car in the street.

Evening came, and still no call. Marilyn began to think that Carol hadn't been able to deliver the message, or that Jerry had refused to listen. Maybe he really was through with her. Maybe she had waited too long to swallow her pride.

At eight o'clock the doorbell rang. Marilyn heard her father answer it, then call upstairs.

"Marilyn! You have a visitor!"

Her heart pounding, Marilyn ran downstairs. There in the front hall stood Jerry, looking as nervous and uncertain as she felt. His dark eyes met hers, and she saw the pain in them that matched her own.

"Hello, Marilyn," he said quietly.

"Hello, Jerry."

They stood there for a moment, just looking at each other. Then Jerry said, "Carol gave me your message. Could we—could we talk?"

"Yes," she whispered. "Yes, I'd like that."

They walked out to the front porch and sat down on the swing where they had spent so many happy evenings. For a moment neither of them spoke.

Finally Jerry said, "I've been a fool, Marilyn. I've been miserable all week, and it's my own fault."

"No, it's my fault too. I should have listened to you. I should never have gone to that dance with Brad."

"You had every right to go. I had no business trying to tell you what to do. I was just—" He paused, struggling with the words. "I was just scared of losing you. When Brad came back, I remembered how you used to feel about him, and I was afraid you'd realize you still cared for him."

"Jerry, no! I don't care about Brad—not that way. What we had is over. It's been over since the day I met you." She turned to face him, her eyes bright with unshed tears. "Don't you know that you're the only one I love? You're the only one I've ever really loved."

Jerry's face transformed with relief and joy. "Marilyn," he said softly, and reached for her hands. "I love you too. So much that this week has been pure hell. I kept wanting to call you, to come see you, but I was too proud, too stubborn."

"We've both been stubborn," Marilyn said, her heart singing with happiness. "But it's over now, isn't it? We'll never let anything come between us again."

"Never," Jerry promised, and took her in his arms.

As they kissed in the soft twilight, Marilyn thought of little Bobby Wilson and his favorite fairy tale. The prince had come back after all, and they were going to live happily ever after.

Young hearts might be fragile, but they were also resilient. And love, real love, could survive anything—even foolish pride.