Weaving the Fabric of Home Life
Halaevalu Mata'aho, Queen of Tonga [Translation of an address given by the Queen of Tonga, Queen Halaevalu Mata'- aho, at the Relief Society Homemaking Display Show held as part of the Golden Jubilee celebration of the Tongan Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, November 27, 1968. Presented by permission of the Queen.]

I wish to pay my respects to the chiefs and nobles assembled here today, my respects to the wife of the British Consul who is with us today, my special regards to President Tanner and his wife who are here from America, and to President Groberg our own Tongan Mission President, and his wife who are here also today. Also my regards to the leaders of the various women's organizations in the various churches in 90 Tonga who are here today, and my special regards to the members of the Relief Society organization of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who, of course, represent the main reason we are here today.

It is always a pleasure for me to take part in any meeting which has as its purpose the giving of thanks or praise for good work which has been accomplished. I want to thank especially all of you members of the Relief Society for the great work you have done and which is demonstrated here today.

We must remember, however, that it is always our responsibility as women in Tonga or as women anywhere in the world to perform this type of work lovingly and carefully, and to make the home we live in more pleasant. There are two words I would like to use to base my talk upon. I hope it will be helpful to some of us here this afternoon. The first word is husband, and the second word is wife.

The word husband comes from two English words, namely house and band. We can see then that this word basically means that which wraps around or solidifies or strengthens the house and provides protection and support thereto. And this is the case, for truly it is the husband who provides the protection and support and indeed ties together all of the various elements connected with the house. If he is a good husband, he provides everything that is needful for the family with his work and his efforts and with his ability to do things that only men can do, such as heavy work, building homes, etc.

We must always remember that this responsibility is fulfilled from the husband's heart, for, indeed, in his home is everything that is valuable to him—his wife, his children, and their love and respect. Naturally he desires his family to have the best of everything possible, be it government, church, family, or any other association. How very, very blessed is the woman to whom God has given such a husband.

Now there may be a few women who would tend to say, "I am grateful to God for the religious understanding and light that I have, but it is a real burden to me that my husband does not understand religious truths as I do, and does not live by these family or eternal truths as he should." If this happens to be the particular burden of a Christian woman, and she begins to think that the burden is very heavy for her to carry, some may even go as far as to feel that they should make a change in their marital relationship. If there is anyone who thinks this way, I would like to read to you from the Bible a passage which I believe applies directly to such women, and I believe this passage of scripture will be a source of strength and comfort to you and help you to carry on.

This scripture is found in the New Testament in the Book of First Corinthians, Chapter 7, and reads as follows:...

If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away. And the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, and if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband: else were your children unclean; but now are they holy.

But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or a sister is not under bondage in such cases: but God hath called us to peace.

For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? Or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife?

Now, my dear fellow women, if you can be completely unselfish and meek and humble and have the true spirit of Christian love and be guided by the Holy Ghost in your actions and words I am certain that as you work with these influences you can indeed become an instrument in the hands of God to change the heart of your husband for the better that he may become truly Christian also.

Now the second word that I want to speak about is the word wife. The meaning of the word wife is something we probably all wonder about. Why is it that we women who are married are called wives? I feel that we can learn quite a bit from the origin of this word. The word wife originally comes from the verb which means to weave. In the very early days linen or cloth was woven in each separate home. Even the thread was made in each separate home with a machine called the spinning wheel. Then when there was enough thread it was made into cloth on a machine called a hand loom. Originally, the wife was the one who did this weaving or making of the cloth.

I would like to quote again from the Bible, this time from the Old Testament, the Book of Proverbs which says: She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it.

The husband, as previously mentioned, has the responsibility for all of those things from the outside to tie the home together, but the wife has the responsibility and opportunity of weaving the fabric of home life. This is done inside the home in order to provide the necessary happiness for her family.

And you know, fellow women, as far as I am concerned, this is the most beautiful weaving and the most important weaving that is done anywhere in the world—weaving the fabric of your home life. And how beautiful is that fabric if woven by a true Christian woman or wife, especially a Christian woman such as one described in the Book of Proverbs and one who sincerely has the desire to make her husband and her children and her family happy.

In any weaving there are bound to be those moments of trial and temptation which we must overcome, for all is not easy. There will be those days when we will get tired of the constant weaving which we are doing. The fabric of our home will be colored by the various problems and hardships which come our way, but if successfully overcome, these only add to the beauty of the overall design.

Yes, if we have love in our hearts and understanding in our hearts, these problems thus overcome act as gold and silver threads which are stronger than any other threads which may come our way. If we can just be unselfish and have a sincere desire to love and serve our families and also be brave and strong in the work we are called to do, we can weave this most beautiful of all fabrics.

Wives, mothers, just how is the fabric of your home? Are you weaving beautifully and orderly through peace and love or are you one of those wives who weave in a disorderly fashion—a wife who leaves the weaving loom of her home and goes outside in an attempt to find her own happiness and joy which she can never find outside of her own. Particular assignment at home? There are so many women nowadays who are crying for their freedom and their rights to be free from the traditional responsibilities of the home and family.

This class of women will never be able to weave the beautiful fabric necessary to have a peaceful home unless they repent and return unto that which they are privileged by God to do. One other point I would like to mention is to ask all of the mothers here to remember that the fabric of the lives of our children, their characters, is largely determined by the weaving that they observe us doing. They not only learn from us but we actually weave the fabric of their lives for them in their tender years. In fact we actually begin weaving the pattern of their lives before they are even born. Yes, one of our most important weaving assignments is our children.

Weaving the Fabric of Home Life

We must always remember that the life of our children is made up of three parts—that is body, mind, and spirit. There are many of us who provide all the necessary things for their body, and encourage them strongly in their academic pursuits to develop their minds, but we must remember that if we do not feed and help and support their spirits, we are in fact being negligent of that portion of our children which is by far the most valuable—their eternal spirits.

How happy should be the mother or wife who is able to answer thusly: Yes, in the love and grace of God my spirit does live and the spirit of my husband and the spirits of my children live despite the hardships of this uncertain world. My love to all. I thank you for this opportunity.