AN Odd-Shaped Valentine

Cy it / \ iN Md I
Kathryn E. Franks

'Win A

ae ~e w

In the Southwest where I live, we have no February snow, but this morning great heavy clouds swooped down over the foothills, bringing the winter rains. A good day, I decided, casting aside the morning paper, to put a cake in the oven. This accomplished, I started a gelatin salad for the next day's luncheon.

I had not realized it was Valentine's Day until Patrick, my three-year-old neighbor, zigzagged through the puddles to my backdoor for his usual morning visit. He dried his feet on my throw rug while, in one breath, he greeted me with the morning news.

"My daddy couldn't start his car and Skippy Cat got caught in the rain. Know what? Terry took all the valentines to school."

Wiping his wet hands on his pant's leg, he walked directly to the living room and looked around. He came back to the kitchen and pulled himself up on the maple, round-seated stool I had left beside the kitchen cupboard.

"Did the mailman leave you some envelopes?" he asked.

"Yes," I replied, "two."

A moment of silence.

"Then where are your valentines?" he asked.

Apparently, he felt concerned because he had not discovered valentines lined along my livingroom mantelpiece, nor found any standing in my window sill above my kitchen sink. Patrick's eyes sobered in thought as he sat on the stool silently brooding.

Knowing Patrick, I guessed he must be worried because my friends had forgotten to send valentines. The fact that I live alone has troubled Patrick for some time. He senses my "aloneness," and tries in his three-year-old way to help me, and be company for me. My big, quiet house appalls him. He is one of four children, and although the silence puzzles him, I suspect at times, it is a haven of privacy for him. Here he has my undivided attention, and over the past year we have become good, trusted friends.

I felt, as he sat there watching me mix cranberries into the gelatin, that the valentine situation was bothering him. Therefore I explained to him that my friends, our age, sent different kinds of cards.

"Get well cards, birthday cards—these cards convey messages of love," I said.
"They don't always have to be heart-shaped like valentines."

He listened, then abruptly jumped down from the stool.

"I've got to go home now," he said. He turned and ran out the door before I could hand him my umbrella. This was unusual for Patrick. He always waited for the cake to come out of the oven so that he could have the first piece. But he had dashed across the yard, looking like a giant butterfly floating through the rain.

In five minutes he was back, calling from the outside step. As I opened the door, I saw he carried something in his arms. Raindrops, dripping from his red and blue plaid shirt sleeves, dropped to the floor. His eyes watched my face as his small steady hands held out an old, blue, oval-shaped flower bowl with two rocks centered on the bottom. On top of one rock sat one of the tiniest turtles I'd ever seen. Stretching its skinny neck out from a brightly decorated shell, it looked up at me.

"He's yours—I'm giving him to you," Patrick said, his face aglow.

Sensing the magnitude of the gift, I assured him that the turtle was exactly what I needed for company.

"I'll keep it here in the window sill while I'm working in the kitchen," I explained jubilantly. "When I go upstairs, I'll take the turtle with me."

An Odd-Shaped Valentine

"He's a valentine," Patrick exclaimed quickly, because I hadn't already guessed. Surprise vanished from my eyes momentarily as I considered the thoughtfulness of his act. A gentle smile checked my heartfelt tears.

"Patrick, this is the nicest valentine I have ever received," I said shakily, taking the wiggly turtle out in my hand.

"But he's not shaped like one, is he?" Patrick questioned.

I felt certain that Patrick was reminding me of what I had told him only minutes before about grownup valentines.

"No, he's not heart-shaped," I answered, "but because you gave him to me on Valentine's Day, my only valentine, he'll always be heart-shaped to me."

That was enough for Patrick. Evidently my expression told him that I had accepted the gift as he had intended, with love. Then because my valentine started to crawl out of my hand, our smiles burst into giggles, and as Patrick watched proudly I placed the pet back into the bowl.

Afterwards, I removed the cake from the oven, set the breakfast nook table with two red placemats, cut us each a piece of chocolate cake, poured two glasses of milk, and then the two of us sat down to a pleasant, Valentine Day snack. While our conversation consisted mostly of the care and feeding of miniature turtles, I thought of what I had learned that day, for secretly I had learned something delightfully new about the odd shape of valentines.