Editorial / On Contemplation

Did you ever stop to think that every book written, every picture painted, every building erected, every play enacted, every car driven was conceived mentally and had its beginning with ideas inside someone's mind? Someone deliberately thought and thought until ideas became realities, a whole procession of ideas became workable inventions, artistic expressions, articulate expositions. Did you ever stop to think that only those who stop to think make progress equal to their capabilities? Do you ever stop to think? Do you ever meditate, summon from your heart and mind the things that need your most considered judgment? Do you see in meditation an opportunity to renew yourself, to build your self-confidence; to revitalize and gather new strength, not dwelling upon weaknesses or failures but upon better ways to accomplish tasks; to refresh with greater determination; to reflect upon events of your life that were pure joy; and to create constructive attitudes and enthusiasm? Do you take time to contemplate, to bring your mental powers and resources to work out your problems, to form your judgments? When decisions must be reached do you pause to map your course, to think through to a conclusion the probable consequences of a contemplated action? Your head should be allowed to guide your feet to keep you from an impulsive action which could be a disaster. Thoughtful consideration may save many mistakes.

Contemplation is not idleness though it requires a certain stillness and freedom from physical activity. Contemplation does not squander time but makes time more valuable.

Volume Number 
The General Board
Belle S. Spafford, President
Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
Mayola R. Miltenberger, Secretary-Treasurer

The need for your children real thinking, some daydreaming to regiment their hours that thes denied them? Clear your mind of earth-bound things to leave it open to inspiration? You are entitled to inspiration from the ordinances in your affairs if your faith he may reach your soul. Contemplate this blessing when you are alone, silent yet frequent, as the morning and idea upon idea until a solution, an answer, a pattern; follow. Thoughts can be light, nappy-hearted things of one's spirit can be quiet, uninspiring pressing if you do not have privacy to imagining, some delightfully moments of companionship.

Leone G.