SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 104 Zion and Its Future Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 136.)
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere; First Meeting: 
OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman is guided and sustained through her knowledge that the Church has been, is, and will forever be led by prophets of the Lord.
INTRODUCTION Before The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, the Lord gave this counsel to individuals interested in Joseph Smith's work:
Although Zion has several meanings, when the foregoing counsel is considered in its context—a time when The Book of Mormon and the modern revelations had not yet been received and the Church not yet established—then Zion, as here used, refers to the marvelous work and a wonder to be established upon the earth. The marvelous and wondrous work to be restored was not only The Book of Mormon spoken of by Isaiah, not only the building up of a certain geographical area, but the accomplishment of all God's purposes on the earth. (Isa. 29:13-14; D&C 105:31-32.)
True it is that Zion in the scriptures refers to Jerusalem, to the ancient city of Enoch's people, to North and South America, to the center place—Jackson County, Missouri, as geographical areas. (2 Kings 19:21; Ps. 48; Moses 7:18-21; Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. VI, pp. 318-19 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church]; D&C 57:1-2.)
But also, Zion has significance in that it means:
(1) The Church of Jesus Christ,

Prophets saw in vision the time when God's work for man would culminate in the dispensation of the Savior would come to usher in a millennial reign of peace. Might be termed a period in which all dispensations are gathered into one, culminating period when the purposes of God for man's salvation are completed. (Eph. 1:7-10; D&C 77:12)
The greatness of this dispensation is indicated in the following:
For it is necessary in the ushering in of the dispensation of times, which dispensation is now beginning to usher in, that a whole and complete and perfect union, and welding together of dispensations, and keys, and powers, and glories should take place, revealed from the days of Adam even to the foundation of the world, but have been kept hid from the wise and prudent, shall be revealed unto babes and sucklings in this, 1 i of the fulness of times.
(Class Discussion: Give an appraisal of the concept of Zion and its relationship to the dispensation of the fulness of times.)

One of the unique teachings of the islands of the Pacific Lesson Department looked with joyful anticipation when this gathering would take place. (Isa. 11:10-16.)
(1) The Jewish people to modern Israel (D&C 133:35)
(2) The ten lost tribes from the land of the north to receive their blessings at the Latter-day
Latter-day Saints. (D&C 17; 133:3.) Included in this latter group are those known as the remnants of Jacob, the American Indian and those on c. (D&C 109:65-67.)
Leaders in the salvation of those gathered are the Latter-day Saints to whom the Lord has said:
"Therefore, thus saith the Lord unto you, with whom the priesthood hath continued through the lawful heirs, and that Priesthood have remained, and must needs be lineage by the mouths of prophets since the world began. All the holy prophets (D&C 86:8-10.)
In the words of President Wilford Woodruff say you have your appointment, the Lord has raised up and I can prove from the Book of Doctrine and Covenants through the lineage of your fathers, and that Priesthood will continue throughout eternity, therefore you have received your appointment, and the Lord looks to you to build up his Zion and kingdom upon the earth. (Journal of Discourses, 18:120.)
Thus, the purpose of all activities and programs of the Church should prepare the people for these blessings. With the keys of the gathering restored, the way was prepared for the instruction of the people in wards and stakes preparatory to their receiving the higher ordinances of the gospel. Also, the way was provided for them to administer saving ordinances for their dead. (D&C 128:5-9.)
(Class Discussion: How are temple building and the principle of Zion related?)

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints exists for the purpose of bringing men to exaltation. In order that the saints may be assisted in achieving this goal, the Lord has placed within their reach the witness of the Holy Ghost to motivate them to righteousness. As the dedicated, loyal Latter-day Saint becomes acquainted with the essential purpose of the dispensation of the fulness of times—preparation for the second coming of Christ—he learns that his efforts are to build Zion upon the earth.
It was for the Prophet Joseph Smith, divinely directed, to restore to the earth the unique concept of Zion.

Kimball once said: Let me say to you, that many of you will see the time when you will have all the trouble, trial and persecution that you can stand, and plenty of opportunities to show that you are true to God and his work. This Church has before it many close places through which it will have to pass before the work of God is crowned with victory. To meet the difficulties that are coming, it will be necessary for you to have a knowledge of the truth of this work for yourselves. The difficulties will be of such a character that the man or woman who does not possess this personal knowledge or witness will fall. If you have not got the testimony, live right and call upon the Lord and cease not till you obtain it. If you do not, you will not stand. Remember these sayings, for many of you will live to see them fulfilled. The time will come when no man nor woman will be able to endure on borrowed light. Each will have to be guided by the light within himself. If you do not have it, how can you stand? Do you believe it? (Life of Heber C. Kimball, by Orson F. Whitney, pp. 449-50.) If the saints failed to observe the words of the Lord, the kingdoms of the world would prevail against them, for they were assigned to be a light to the world. (D&C 103:5-13.) Ample provision has been made whereby the saint may learn his duties from attendance at appointed meetings, study of the scriptures, and by the Holy Ghost as an interpreter and guide to truth. Although one may follow these ways of determining truth, yet there is one sure and practical way to keep on the Lord's side. Expressed in the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, it is: "Look to the Presidency and receive Lesson Department instruction." (DHC 3:391; D&C 124:45-46.) The First Presidency of the Church teach only the way of righteousness whereby exaltation will come to those who obey. The revelations of the Lord come to them for the members of the Church. They are inspired to solve the problems of the day and to give the correct interpretation of what the Lord has revealed in the books of scripture. The Lord has said through the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the goal for which the saints should strive: And your whole labor shall be in Zion, with all your soul, from henceforth; yea, you shall ever open your mouth in my cause, not fearing what man can do, for I am with you. Amen. (D&C 30:11.) We ought to have the building up of Zion as our greatest object (Joseph Smith, DHC 3:390.) If one accepts this charge, then he will accept in deed the closing words of the Doctrine and Covenants: Be diligent in keeping all my commandments, lest judgments come upon you, and your faith fail you, and your enemies triumph over you. So no more at present. Amen and Amen. (D&C 136:42.) 

"