[Vol48 | July 1961 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bday | Author: Congrats]
470 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1961 
ORANGE  COUNTY  STAKE    (CALIFORNIA)    PORTRAYS  SPECIAL  PRESEN- 
TATIONS "OUT  OF  THE  BOOK"  IN  HONOR  OF  THE  BIRTHDAY 
OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY,  March  17,  1961 
'The  Orange  County  Stake  Rehef  Society  celebrated  the  iigth  birthday  of  Relief 
Society,"  reports  President  Mary  S.  Grasteit,  "with  a  beautifully  arranged  entertain- 
ment on  Friday  evening,  March  17th,  in  the  Fuller  ton  chapel. 
"President  Mary  S.  Grasteit  and  her  Counselors  Ruth  M.  Bell  and  Minnie  S. 
Pressett  were  in  charge  of  the  program.  The  presentation  rexiewed  and  displayed  the 
year's  work,  with  each  department  presenting  an  act  of  the  play  'Out  of  the  Book,' 
directed  by  Lorna  Rapier,  stake  theology  class  leader.  'Spiritual  Living  in  the  Nuclear 
Age  —  Our  Prophets  Speak'  was  directed  by  Neva  Johnson,  stake  social  science  class 
leader;  and  'This  I  Remember'  was  directed  by  Helen  West,  stake  literature  class 
leader. 
"A  forty-voice  Singing  Mothers  chorus,  under  the  direction  of  Venna  Black,  stake 
chorister,  and  accompanied  by  Jane  Gudmundsen,  stake  organist,  presented  'The  Heav- 
ens Are  Telling,'  'The  Lord  Is  My  Light,'  'No  Man  Is  an  Island,'  and  other  numbers. 
The  inspirational  program  was  followed  by  a  social  hour,  with  refreshments,  enjoyed  by 
the  Relief  Society  women  of  the  stake,  their  husbands,  and  friends." 
Photograph  submitted  by  Nellie  R.  Mecham 
UTAH   STAKE    (UTAH)    RECENTLY   APPOINTED   RELIEF   SOCIETY 
PRESIDENCY,  February  26,  1961 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Florence  T.  Britsch,  Work  Director  Counselor;  Nellie  R. 
Mecham,  President. 
Back  row,  left  to  right:  Edna  H.  Williams,  Education  Counselor;  Louise  H. 
Cardall,  Secretary-Treasurer.

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
471 
Photograph  submitted  by  Ruth  W.  Palmer 
FLAGSTAFF    STAKE    (ARIZONA)    SINGING    MOTHERS    PRESENT    MUSIC 
FOR  STAKE  QUARTERLY  CONFERENCE,  January  1961 
Ruth  W.  Palmer,  President,  Flagstaff  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "Over  forty 
Singing  Mothers,  from  eight  wards  and  branches,  participated  in  the  chorus.  It  was 
fun  smging  together,  and  some  of  the  sisters  came  from  o\'er  one  hundred  miles  to 
participate.  Our  stake  chorister  was  Naomi  Kuhn  (wearing  flower),  and  her  daughter- 
in-law  Dennie  Kuhn  accompanied.  Because  of  the  scattered  condition  in  our  stake,  it 
is  difficult  for  the  mothers  to  participate  as  much  as  they  would  like  to.  Many  of  our 
wards  and  branches  have  their  own  Singing  Mothers  groups.  \Vt  are  asked  to  furnish  the 
music  for  one  quarterly  conference  a  year,  which  is  a  wonderful  opportunity." 
iulue  uiock 
Mabe/  /ones  Gahhott 
Half  way  up  the  hillside  was  a  flat  blue  rock, 
Here  we  paused  in  climbing  to  rest  and  talk  .  .  . 
Of  how  the  narrow  railway  tied  a  siher  bow 
Around  our  little  valley;  how  the  fields  below 
Plowed,  or  newly  planted,  or  rich  in  harvest  board. 
Made  the  \alley  table  a  king-size  checkerboard, 
How  the  little  houses,  chimneyed  snug  and  warm, 
Circled  all  completely,  standing  arm  in  arm; 
Sometimes  we  looked  inward,  and  read  each  other's  heart; 
Then,  we  walked  down  the  hillside,  lingering,  loath  to  part.

LESSJON   DEPARTMENT 
logy — The  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Lesson  33  —  Records  Are  Important 
Elder  Roy  W.  Doxey 
(Text:  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  47) 
For  Tuesday,  October  3,  1961 
Objective:  To  point  out  the  necessity  for  record  keeping  in  the  Church,  the 
development  of  the  Church  Historian's  Office,  and  to  encourage  the  keeping  of  records 
within  families. 
Baclcground 
A  commandment  that  a  record 
should  be  kept  was  given  during 
the  meeting  in  which  six  brethren 
met  formally  to  organize  the  Church 
on  April  6,  1830.  (See  D  &  C  21:1.) 
When  Oliver  Cowdery  met  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  for  the  first 
time  in  April  1829,  he  began  to 
assist  the  Prophet  as  his  scribe  in 
the  translation  of  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. (See  D  &  C,  Section  6.)  As 
the  companion  of  Joseph  Smith  in 
this  work,  Ohver  Cowdery  acted  as 
the  Church  Historian  and  Recorder. 
When  Section  47  was  received  in 
Kirtland,  Ohio,  on  March  8,  1831, 
appointing  John  Whitmer,  son  of 
Peter  Whitmer,  Sr.,  as  Church  His- 
torian, Oliver  Cowdery's  assign- 
ment ended. 
John  Whitmer 
John  Whitmer  received  many 
wonderful  privileges  and  opportuni- 
ties to  become  one  of  the  truly  great 
Page  472 
men  of  this  dispensation.  In  addi- 
tion to  his  call  as  Church  Historian, 
he  was  the  subject  of  a  number  of 
revelations  —  Sections  15,  26,  :^o, 
69,  70.  Some  of  his  responsibihties 
in  the  Church  were  to  assist  in  pre- 
siding over  the  Church  in  Missouri, 
to  serve  as  a  missionary,  to  help  the 
Prophet  in  the  compilation  of  the 
revelations  in  the  Book  of  Com- 
mandments, and  to  assist  Oliver 
Cowdery  in  superintending  the 
printing  of  them. 
Probably  the  most  important  re- 
sponsibility placed  upon  him  was 
the  call  as  one  of  the  eight  witnesses 
of  The  Book  of  Mormon.  With  his 
brethren,  he  testified  that  he  had 
seen  the  plates.  Although  John 
Whitmer  failed  to  live  up  to  his 
high  calling,  he  never  denied  his 
testimony.  (See  D  81  C  Commen- 
tary, page  75.) 
John  Whitmer,  Church  Historian 
The    call    of   John    Whitmer   as