[Vol48 | July 1961 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Afterglow | Author: Armstron]
Afterglow Nancy M. Armstrong THe colorful pink afterglow sparkled like frosted jewels on the snowy east mountains, left there by the last rays of the setting sun. Many experiences in life leave just such a rich, warm afterglow: the happiness of friendship, the bliss of achievement long striven for, a favorite book many times reread, the memory of one much loved though long departed, days amid the awesome beauty of God's creations, moments of real understanding shared with one's husband. The deep enduring values of life — love of home — love of family — love of friends — love of God — cast a roseate afterglow that permeates the whole of living. Page 452 Vie Lette lon Patricia Ann Middleton HERE are times when I cannot help recalling the line of an amusing old song, "Life gets teejous, don't it?" Sometimes it can. And it was on a cloudy summer day that I particularly thought so. After missing a bus from town back to campus, causing me to miss a class, I stood and waited for fifteen minutes at the bus stop, grumbling from beneath my load of books and packages, squinting against the bright haze, and wishing impatiently that the weather would make up its mind. Finally, the bus screeched to a stop and I got on, thinking how life was filled with so many little frustrations. One of the side seats at the front of the bus was vacant, so I plopped down on the sticky leather, feeling equally hot and sticky. Sitting across from me was a sweet-faced lady with graying hair, whose sparkling smile took me completely by surprise. A sober-faced matron boarded the bus at the next corner and sat down beside the smiling woman. The little lady leaned forward and placed a gentle hand on her knee. "How are you, today?" she beamed. The woman jerked her head around to face her, with a surprised look. With a "Do-I-knowyou?" question on her face, she returned the greeting with some uncertainty, "Fine, thank you." The little ladv's face brightened even more, and she settled back in her seat. "Isn't this a lovely day?" she said. I folded my raincoat across my knees, wondering what our Pollyanna would think to say next. And I noticed a couple of amused listeners turn heads in her direction. But while the lady talked to fellow passengers in her pleasant, vibrant voice, a few sober expressions were soon replaced by friendly smiles. Suddenly, it became a lovely day! The matron got off at the next stop and another got on and took the empty seat beside the cheerful lady. "Hello," came the pleasant greeting once more. "Isn't this a lovely day?" This time, our sprightly spreader of good will was answered with a grateful, "Oh, yes. I suppose we could use a shower. But I think it's beginning to clear up, now." The front seat passengers did not leave the bus without a warm smile from the little lady, and they, in turn, nodded a pleasant goodbye. I, too, felt compelled to smile at her when I got off the bus, and I fell in step with a woman with a heavy load of groceries. Her brows were knitted, her face was strained, and she was staring fixedly over the top of her grocery sacks. I shifted my books and packages to one arm. She was puffing under her load, and I felt a surge of good will. "Here, let me take one of those to the corner for you," I said, relieving her of the largest bag before she could answer. She looked at me with wide eyes. "Why, thank you very much! I didn't think I'd make it! You sce Page 453 454. I have a heart condition... It makes me so short-winded. But I had to get to the store before lunch. Ho one home but me... My husband is out of town this week." I walked two blocks out of my way, and set the grocery bag down just inside her door. She thanked me profusely. Took stock of myself as I walked home. Why the sudden change? Earlier that day I had felt that evervthing had gone wrong. I felt small and alone, wishing that someone would come along and pat me on the back, and say, "Pat, you're pretty great!" But the little lady, in her kindly way, had said more. Somewhere in the back of my head, a thought escaped into my consciousness. It did not enter quietly, as most thoughts do, but settled with a loud crash, and banged the door loudly on my mood: If you devote your time and efforts to making people happy, it will rub off onto you. Where had it come from? Surely, I had heard or read it somewhere. If I, too, could spend part of each day making others feel glad that I had crossed their path; if I could devote my time to unselfish giving, there would be no time left to worry about receiving! For, if I could live this principle of love, it would give me that big slice of satisfaction I needed every day. I was on my own street now; home was two blocks away. Crossing our street, I bounded across the little patch of lawn between the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1961 curb and the sidewalk, missing the walkway. I passed the 'old man who lived next door, bent over his sparse bed of flowers, digging in the dirt with his spade. And I was about to turn up the walk to our apartment, when a sharp voice assailed me from behind. "Young lady! Those aren't the sands of time you just sank your feet into!" My heart began to pound a little, as the angry voice continued to lecture. "I've worked all afternoon on that little patch of ground, trying to restore the grass that's been trampled. 'That was newly seeded lawn you just walked on!" The look he shot me gave me to understand that I was not only a young whippersnapper who did not respect the rights of others, but a foolish co-ed to boot. I managed a repentant smile. "Oh, I'm terribly sorry. Know it belonged to you." "Well, it doesn't," he softened a little. "It belongs to the city, but I like to keep things growing," taking in, with a sweep of his arm, his flower beds, the well-kept lawn, and neatly pruned shrubs. "Tm really sorry," I said, smiling. "And I won't be so_ thoughtless again." Strolling over to his flowers I began commenting on his hard work. He grinned and continued to scoop dirt around his plants. He gave me a friendly nod as I turned to go. It must have been contagious, for I said, without thinking, "Isn't it a lovely day?"