[Vol48 | July 1961 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Lesson | Title: Theology — Records Are Important | Author: Roy W. Doxey]
Sheology—The Doctrine and Carers Lesson 33 — Records Are Important Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 47) For Tuesday, October 3, 1961 Objective: 'To point out the necessity for record keeping in the Church, the cement of the Church Historian's Office, and to encourage the keeping of records within families. Background A commandment that a_ record should be kept was given during the meeting in which six brethren met formally to organize the Church on April 6, 1830. (See D & C 21:1.) When Oliver Cowdery met the Prophet Joseph Smith for the first time in April 1829, he began to assist the Prophet as his scribe in the translation of The Book of Mormon. (See D & C, Section 6.) As the companion of Joseph Smith in this work, Oliver Cowdery acted as the Church Historian and Recorder. When Section 47 was received in Kirtland, Ohio, on March 8, 1831, appointing John Whitmer, son of Peter Whitmer, Sr., as Church Historian, Oliver Cowdery's assignment ended. John Whitmer John Whitmer received many wonderful privileges and opportunities to become one of the truly great Page 472 men of this dispensation. In addition to his call as Church Historian, he was the subject of a number of revelations — Sections 15, 26, 30, 69, 70. Some of his responsibilities in the Church were to assist in presiding over the Church in Missoun, to serve as a missionary, to help the Prophet in the compilation of the revelations in the Book of Commandments, and to assist Oliver Cowdery in superintending the printing of them. Probably the most important responsibility placed upon him was the call as one of the eight witnesses of The Book of Mormon. With his brethren, he testified that he had seen the plates. Although John Whitmer failed to live up to his high calling, he never denied his testimony. (See D & C Commentary, page 75.) John Whitmer, Church Historian The call of John Whitmer as LESSON DEPARTMENT Church Historian is an example of a fulfilled desire to receive the call by revelation.... John Whitmer, according to his own representations, said he would rather not keep the Church history, but observed —"The will of the Lord be done, and if He desires it, I wish that He would manifest it through Joseph the Seer" (D. H. C. I:166, footnote). In the revelation he is informed of his appointment and his responsibility as historian. (Read D & C 47:3-4.) Within the year following receipt of this revelation, John Whitmer was instructed to accompany Oliver Cowdery to Independence, Missouri, and the revelations compiled as A Book of Commandments should be printed. In that revelation, the duties of Brother Whitmer as historian are given. (Read D & C 69:3, 7-8.) The history of the Church written by John Whitmer was only "a mere sketch of the things that transpired." His total. Work consisted of eighty-five pages which included many of the revelations given while he was in office. During the period when many brethren became disaffected, he was in the Presidency of the Church in Missouri. The members of the Church in that area did not sustain him and his associates in the Presidency. Although the presiding brethren demanded that he deliver the history of the Church to the presiding brethren, he refused. Years after his death, a copy of the history was obtained by the Church. Church Historian's Office The Historian's Office became recognized as a distinct part of the Church organization in 1843, when 473 the Prophet Joseph Smith appointed Willard Richards Church Historian and General Church Recorder. Since that time the official title of Church Historian and Recorder has been used by each person succeeding him. The present Historian and Recorder is President Joseph Fielding Smith, also President of the Council of the Twelve. The first Assistant Church Historian was Elder Wilford Woodruff who received this office in October 1856. Elders A. William Lund and Preston Nibley occupy this position today. In an article about the Church Historian's Office written by Elder A. William Lund, from which the above information was obtained, the following appears as the purpose of this office: It is the aim of this office to gather all books, pamphlets, tracts, newspapers, records, etc., published by the Church and those written by members of the Church; those books pertaining to Western History, especially when dealing with the Mormons; also books written by nonMormons which are friendly in their nature and those written by anti-Mormons. We have also in the Historian's Office hundreds of early records of the missions, and since 1907 all the records of births, baptisms, ordinations, deaths, and excommunications which have taken place in the Church (Improvement Era, November 1956, pp. 853-854). Section 123 of The Doctrine and Covenants given March 1839, is a revelation setting forth the need for the saints to assemble all anti-Mormon literature. The position of the Church Historian is one of great importance. (Read D & C Commentary, page 279.) Historical Accuracy Essential In harmony with the desire of the Prophet to record facts relating to 474 his life and the history of the Church that men might know the truth, these words from the Church Historian and Recorder should give us an appreciation of the place of the Church in the world. In regard to the recording of history, the thing that is most important is accuracy. If history is not accurate, it is harmful. It has been said that history is what historians declare it shall be and many historians write with that thought in mind. Of course this is a deplorable situation, which we cannot help. You take history written 50 years ago by some writers of the North in relation to the Civil War [in the United States] and compare it with the writings of someone from the Southern States and you will find a vast difference.... The most important history in the world is the history of our Church and it is the most accurate history in the world. It must be so. It is the most important to us because that history contains the hand dealings of God direct to us through revelation as it has come in the Doctrine and Covenants, in The Book of Mormon, and in any revelation that comes to us through the servants of the Lord for our guidance.... In our history if there are mistakes we can say as did Moroni in The Book of Mormon, "They are the mistakes of men" (Elder Joseph Fielding Smith: "History and History Recorders," Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine, Vol. 16, April 1925, pp. 53-553 58-59). Is it not reasonable and consistent with our knowledge of the purpose of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Samts as the only true Church on the earth that our history is the most accurate? Certainly the Lord would inspire his servants and help them make accurate records where it is necessary that the Church be a standard and a light for the world, as prophesied. (See D & C 115:5.) The prayers of the Church membership are for the upbuilding RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1961 of Zion upon the earth, a necessary part of which is the keeping of records which will redound to the blessing of the people of the world who will be attracted to the gospel. The words of Wilford Woodruff, on September 15, 1856, in dedicating the Church Historian's Office building, located on the site of the present Medical Arts Building in Salt Lake City, express the desire of the faithful member of the Church: And by virtue of the Holy Priesthood vested in us, in the name of Jesus Christ, we do dedicate it and consecrate it unto the Lord our God, and we set it apart that it may contain holy records of the Church and Kingdom of God, and we ask in the name of Jesus Christ that it may be sanctified and holy unto Thy name, and we pray that we may be inspired by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost while acting as Historians or clerks for the Church, and may we keep a true and faithful record and history of Thy Church and Kingdom and Thy servants, and may it be kept in that way and manner that it may be acceptable unto Thee, O Lord, and unto Thy servants, the presidency of Thy Church. And we ask Thee to bless us and prosper us in all things, and we pray that Thou wilt bring to our remembrance all things which are necessary to the writing of this history. And that papers and documents and all things necessary may be brought to us, to enable us to compile a nght, useful and proper history (Improvement Era, November, 1956, pp. 795, 853). Instructions to the Twelve Among the instructions given by the Prophet to the Twelve Apostles after their appointment on February 14, 1835, was the necessity of keeping a record of their official acts. The Prophet Joseph Smith expressed sorrow over the fact that decisions reached on doctrine and duties relating to the kingdom of God had not always been recorded. Consequent- LESSON DEPARTMENT ly, "We cannot bear record to the Church and to the world of the great and glorious manifestations which have been made to us with that degree of power and authority we otherwise could, if we now had these things to publish abroad." He then proceeded to instruct the Twelve to keep a record of their proceedings, declaring it to be of infinite worth and that it would be a feast to their souls. These records would also be a means of protection against the Adversary because neglect in this regard would bring about the withdrawal of the Spirit of God (D. H. C. II:199). Our Acts Are Recorded The Prophet Joseph Smith said that "Our acts are recorded, and at a future day they will be laid before us" (D. H. C. 11:26). In a letter written to the Church concerning salvation for the dead, and after quoting Revelation 20:12, the Prophet wrote: You will discover in this quotation that the books were opened; and another book was opened, which was the book of life; but the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works; consequently, the books spoken of must be the books which contained the record of their works, and refer to the records which are kept on the earth. And the book which was the book of life is the record which is kept in heaven; the principle agreeing precisely with the doctrine which is commanded you in the revelation contained in the letter which I wrote to you previous to my leaving my place [D & C Section 127I — that in all your recordings it may be recorded in heaven (D & C 128:7). The Book of the Law of the Lord Imbued with the need to keep records, the Prophet kept a record called The Book of the Law of the 475 Lord in which he wrote the names of those who were true to the Lord and also to himself as the Lord's anointed. Concerning one of these persons he referred to him as "A faithful man in Israel; therefore his name shall never be forgotten" (D. H. C. V:125). To be thought of and to be worthy of such a comment would be the wish of all who have a testimony of the truth restored in this dispensation. Joseph Smith's journal or diary is the accurate history of this dispensation from the beginning to the end of the Prophet's life. It is known as the History of the Church, and the Documentary History of the Church, consisting of six volumes. The seventh volume covers the period immediately following the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith to the sustaining of President Brigham Young and his counselors as the First Presidency on October 8, 1848. This vote ratified the action of the general conference held on the Iowa side of the Missouri River on December 27, 1847. The Value of Journals or Diaries Not only did the Council of the Twelve keep minutes of their official acts as a body, but many maintained journals of their personal activities. Many of these journals, together with those kept by others of the brethren, have been extremely important in giving information about their missionary labors, pioneer activities, and other aspects of our history. The number of these brethren runs into a very. Large. Number. Among these was Wilford Woodtuff who assisted in bringing many wonderful happenings during and after President Joseph Smith's life 476 to the attention of the Church. From this passage one will realize the way in which he was able to perform this function: There is one subject I wish to speak upon and that is the keeping of a journal with respect to the dealings of God with us. I have many times thought the Quorum of the Twelve and others considered me rather enthusiastic upon this subject; but when the Prophet Joseph organized the Quorum of the Twelve, he counseled them to keep a history of