[Vol48 | July 1961 | Sequence: 05 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
EDITORIAL m2 VOL. 


 NO. 7 She Ripening of the Wheat OW, in July, as the summer comes to its fulfillment and turns toward the time of golden days, many wheat fields in the Northern Hemisphere begin — to change in color from deep green to shades of living gold. All beautiful, in furrowed lands, the wheat fields ripple on the plains, in the wide valleys, and along the shining reaches of those acres that lie between the shadows of the mountains and the vast and level lowlands. Watered by recurrent rain, irrigated by silver furrows, or reclaimed from the wilderness, the wheat fields lift their spears of plenty. When the wind ruffles the waves of wheat, there seems to be a pervading music that moves in a harmony of sound. For wheat is an ancient grain which has provided food for many people and many nations. In the valleys of the western mountains, the pioneers turned the sagebrush sod and diverted the living water to their early fields. And the wheat grew tall and beautiful. In those arid places where no streams were found, the dry land wheat flourished as an answer to need and work and prayer. A man looking upon a field of yellow wheat is a picture long treasured by those who know that wheat to many is life and bread and fulfillment. A woman gleaning along the edge of a field, gathering golden wheat heads into Page 440 her apron, is a view from the past to be remembered as long as children's hands reach for bread, as long as there is hunger in the world. Of special significance to Relief Society women everywhere is the story of wheat, its gleaning and its saving for a time of need — symbolic of deeds of charity. "The granaries of the Lord must be filled to overflowing," the pioneer women declared, and with the strength of their faith, they gleaned in the fields, their purpose as beautiful as that which motivated Ruth in the olden field of Boaz. I Many women had made their individual gleanings and their storage of the golden grain before President Brigham Young, in 1876, directed the pioneer women, "I want to give you a mission... I want you to save the grain." Bins were made, granaries were built, barrels were filled with grain. 'The women raised wheat, harvested wheat, and stored the grain against a time of hunger. By the autumn of 1877; more than ten thousand bushels. Had been stored — and that was 'only the beginning. In the years that followed, much of the wheat was distributed to the poor, and later, during World War I, Relief Society wheat was sold to the United States Government. Funds from the Wheat Trust still provide the precious gam against a day of need. It is in harmony with a heritage EDITORIAL of thrift and charity that the sheaf of wheat and the golden grain have become a symbol for the sisterhood. Bound sheaves of wheat adorn the granite wall between the upper and the lower windows of the Relief Society Building. A border of wheat surrounds the representation of the members of the first Relief Society on the Centennial plate — 1842-1942. A similar border of great beauty appears upon the plate made in honor of the dedication of the Relief Society Building in 1956 — the lovely plate upon which are etched the photographs of the nine General Presidents of Relief Society. The seal of Relief Society bears the symbol of the wheat. To all in the sisterhood, the wheat has become prayer and promise — seed and grain — dream and 44) fulfillment — symbol and strength. For some women the golden grain has a special meaning. A thousand bushels of wheat grew on a western "dry farm" in the first year of tillage in an arid upland. Other crops followed, but some years the fields were moving billows of dust, and only withered stalks murmured in the wind. Then there came a time of ample harvest, when a father and his daughter stood and looked at the golden fields leaning up against the cedared hills, and the father said, "There is your college education." They stood there, misty-eyed and still, before the wonder of it. The wheat became halls of learning, poetry, music, drama, art, science, history, religion. The wheat became praise and rejoicing. —V. P. C. WVind-Wh ispering (Vood Melba S. Payne We were there in early morning, In a bleak wind-whispering wood. With springtime in her prelude, And so grateful that we could Stand where Joseph knelt to pray, And where the Savior stood On a greener, brighter morning In that wind-whispering wood. Hand in hand together, We said our morning prayer To ask his care and guidance While we traveled on from there. A peaceful moment's magic Embraced us where we stood, Refreshed in faith — and humble, too, In that wind-whispering wood. 'The Precious Words" May C. Hammond Assistant Professor of Education, Brigham Young University He ate and drank the precious words, His spirit grew robust; He knew no more that he was poor, Nor that his fame was dust. He danced along the dingy days, And this bequest of wings Was but a book. What liberty A loosened spirit brings! —Emily Dickinson From The Complete Poems of Emily Dickinson Little, Brown & Company, Publishers Reprinted by permission N_ today's world of television, radio, and the wealth of modern inventions, we are tempted to ask ourselves if reading, as a form of entertainment and leisure-time enjoyment, has not been completely outmoded. In many places, at the turn of a switch, children are able to find any kind of entertainment that meets their taste or the mood of the moment, and with little or no effort on their part. The case for reading, however, is not quite as hopeless as it would seem to be. Surveys show that today's children read more than at any time in the past. More children's books are sold and more hours are spent in reading. This may not mean that children read more in the home. 'The schools are more conscious of the need for reading, and most school libraries are more generously stocked than ever before. Children need books today perhaps more than at any other period in history. They need good books to combat, if possible, the blood and violence, the banal and the vulgar, and the false philosophy of glitter and glamor to which so many of Page 442 them are exposed for many hours each day. Why do children read? Children read to lose themselves. A child will lose himself in a book that takes him into far places, to distant corners of his own country, or to faraway places in other lands. A book may take him into the past and make history come alive for him. In fact, books can give children the key to great minds of all ages. Children read to lose themselves, but they also read to find themselves. Books help them to "try on life for size" — to experience life vicariously with a character within the pages of a book. The child faces with this book character joy or sorrow, or meets with him the daily problems of living. He is savoring life as other people live it. He sees "the wonder of brave human hearts which dare the impossible, fall or suffer only to rise and sing again." He is acquiring meanings and values and is gaining an understanding of himself and of other people. 'This is important during his growing years. As James Stevens so aptly expresses it, "What the heart knows "THE PRECIOUS WORDS" today the head will understand tomorrow." Children's purposes, first of all, are entertainment and enjoyment. Every child should have a chance to choose according to his own special needs and tastes. The parent or teacher who attempts to give guidance should show the greatest respect for the child's judgment. It does no good to press a child into reading a book just because it is good for him. Robert Lawson says that against such practices, a child might stage a sitdown strike or a policy of non-co-operation. This does not mean that an adult is helpless in the matter of guidance. Children trust the judgment of an adult who has proved himself worthy. Often a brief comment, "This book looks like fun," or 'Here is something you might enjoy," will be all that is necessary. Sometimes a brief introduction from one who has read the book is valuable. Librarians can offer good help, and teachers are becoming more and more familiar with good books. Walter de la Mare, an English poet, tells us that only the very best of anything is good enough for children. When he writes, whether it is poetry or prose, we may be sure 443 that children are getting the very best. Good book should have an adequate theme and a _ strong, vigorous. Plot. The characters should be real flesh and blood individuals who are doers and who achieve their worthy goals. The style should be so absorbing that it will carry the child on to the conclusion with a feeling of satisfaction and delight. Elizabeth Nesbitt says, "Literature is nonexistent without the twin qualities of beauty of idea and beauty of expression." In many of the fine books for children we find both these "twin qualities." All children read some _ books which are of doubtful value, but at the same time, if they are developing a solid foundation of real, worthwhile literature, we have nothing to fear. Let us help children to find the best. Let us give them books that will make them weep and books that will shake them with laughter — books "that will give them goose flesh and glimpses of glory." Let us give them wisdom and beauty — "the precious words." Booxs RECOMMENDED FOR AGE Group TEN YEARS Otp TO TEEN AGE Crarx, Ann Notan: Little Navajo Bluebird, Viking Press, New York. The great love this little Navajo girl has for her home and family and for the old ways of life is beautifully portrayed. Crarx, Ann Notan: Santiago, Viking Press, New York. Santiago's adventures take the reader into the cities and the forests of Guatemala until he finally finds his place in the sun. The story is told with great beauty of style and is fraught with wisdom. CosLentTz, CATHERINE CaTE: The Blue Cat of Casteltown, Longmans, Green, and Company, New York. The blue cat is like a knight on a quest, the quest of "beauty, peace, and content." This is a beautifully written book for reading aloud. 444 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SULY 1961 DerJonc, Mernpert: The Wheel on the School, Harper and Brothers, New York. On the tiny island of Shora, in Holland, the project of six school children unites the village in an experience of co-operation. Estes, ELEANOR: The Moffats, Harcourt, Brace, and Company, New York. The troubles and the joys of a family tied together by love and affection make the books of the Moffat series very enjoyable reading. 'There are three books in the series. Forses, Estuer: Johnny Tremain, Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston. Through this fine story of a young silversmith apprentice, the author paints a vivid picture of the beginning days of the American Revolution. One of the finest junior novels. GraHAME, KENNETH: The Wind in the Willows, Charles Scribner's Sons. New York. There are beauty and joy, poetry and nonsense combined in this great English masterpiece. 'Those who love it read it again and again. Henry, Marcuerite: King of the Wind, Rand McNally Company, Chicago. The story of the famous Godalphin — Arabian who sired a line of thoroughbreds from which Man O'War descended. KruMGOLD, JoseEPH: Onion John, Thomas Y. Crowell Company, New York. This story of the age-old conflict between father and son is told with humor and compassion. Spears, EvizABETH GrorceE: The Witch of Blackbird Pond, Houghton Mifflin Comany, Boston. This is the story of a high-spirited girl whose rebellion against bigotry and injustice culminates in a terrifying witch hunt. Sperry, ARMSTRONG: Call It Courage, The Macmillan Company, New York. This is the story of Mafatu, the boy who was afraid. How he finally proved that he had conquered his fear, makes a satisfactory ending to a fine adventure story. STREET, JAMES: Goodbye My Lady, J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia. This is a beautiful and moving tale of a dog, a boy, and an old man. It is fiction at its finest and best. Wuirte, E. B.: Charlotte's Web, Harper and Brothers, New York. Oa E. B. White could create such delightful nonsense as this story of Wilber (a pig) and his dear friend Charlotte (a spider). Excellent reading for the whole family. —<— New Choir Member Ouida Johns Pedersen The meadow larks announce with fluid note The day's arrival. Every summer throat Of bird in tree, or perched on city wire, Mocks the morning sunrise with the fire Of singing. Though earthbound here and kinned to silence, I Tentatively lift my voice... And try. Lt Was &asy, My Child" Mabel Law Atkinson RANNY, how could you leave the comfort and beauty of your home and gardens in England and push a handcart all the way across the plains to build a new home in a desolate valley?" Lynette's youthful face registered incredulity. "It was easy, my child,' Granny answered simply, "for I was as young as you at the time, and I had my John, and we both loved the Lord and desired more than anything else to do his will." Her smile was tender as she continued, "And I had the miracle of life beneath my heart." "How beautifully you say it, Granny; but surely you got discouraged when the sun beat hot upon your head and your feet were blistered. What did you do then? Or didn't you ever feel discouraged?" "Yes, my dear. At times there were shadows, but always John and I would work the magic to bring the sunshine again. I remember the time I was so weary that I felt I could not take another step, when John placed me on the cart and pulled us both. Soon my heart was singing, and I was refreshed and insisted that I get down, and I was able to go on." "And Grandpa, Granny? What did you do when he got discouraged and tired? Surely you couldn't carty him?" "No, Lynette, I couldn't, but I could lift his burden by smiling through my tears and speaking the words of love and praise and appreciation I felt in mv heart and which he loved to hear, the words so dear to one who loves deeply. A tender kiss on his thin cheek and a caress and the words, 'I know, John I know ' and the smile would return to his parched lips, his step would quicken and he would say, 'It's all right, Jeanie, I can make it.'? "But what if both of you got discouraged at the same time? Did that ever happen?" "Yes, many times. And when it did, we looked around to see someone whose burdens were greater than ours and helped bear his load. I remember the gratitude of the young girl-mother whom we cheered in every little way we could when she lost her baby. As we thought of her little one buried beside the trail, we felt we were blessed indeed and rich. When Aunt Martha, as we called her, became too ill to walk and her husband was too old and tired to pull her added weight in his cart, John and I put her in ours and we found our burden was lifted, and found ourselves singing as we went on our journey." "But, Granny," Lynette's voice was reverent and almost a whisper, "Grandpa died on the long trek. Surely, you faltered then, going on alone?" Granny's voice was low and gentle but serenely sure as she answered, "I kept on doing as John and I had done together. Often as I wiped the dust and tears from children's faces, I thought of my own little one to be born in God's valley from which we would never be driven." She paused a moment then went on softly, "And I did not go on alone, my dear. You see the spirit of the Lord was with me all the way."