[Vol48 | July 1961 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Hammond]
["The Precious Words" May C Hammond]

Fall housecleaning meant turning the house inside out. The homemade carpets in the parlor and bedrooms were untacked from the floors, hung on the clothesline and beaten vigorously to get out all the dust. The straw padding was gathered up in tubs, the floor carefully washed, and when it was drv, a fresh padding of straw was spread, the 429 carpets replaced, stretched, and tacked. How we loved to walk over the freshly-laid carpets and feel and hear the new straw crunch underfoot. In food preparation, do you ever stop to think how many prepared things you buy from the store in cans, bottles, and packages? None of these was then available. Yeast for making bread we usually obtained from a neighbor. I would carry a cup of sugar or flour in a small bucket and, in exchange, receive a quart of yeast made with hops. It was delicious to drink, and I kept taking sips as I carried it home so that Mother often exclaimed that there was probably not enough left to raise the dough. URING the summer there was the almost continuous task of bottling fruits, vegetables, and meat. Drying apricots, peaches, and corn took many more hours. A special delicacy was homemade hominy. In the fall when the corn was harvested, we would shell it from the cob. Mother soaked the wood ashes in water to leach out the lye. 'The corn was then soaked in the lye water until the hull could be rubbed off. 'Then came repeated washings to get every trace of the lye out. When the hominy was cooked and seasoned with butter, it was delicious. The fall season brought another happy experience, a trip to the molasses mill for a candy pull. I remember one occasion especially well. It was getting late in the evening before the candy was done, so to hasten the process of cooling, we poured the boiling candy into a bucket of cold water to cool it 430 quickly so we could pull it. Each of us reached in for a handful. I was a bit too eager and got my hand under the boiling syrup as it was poured out. I carried the blisters and then scars of a bad burn for a long time. Milk was not delivered in bottles or purchased from the store in cartons. Herding the cows in the pasture during the summer months was healthy work for the children. Sometimes they weren't as careful as they should have been and a cow would bloat from eating alfalfa. This called for quick action on the part of farm boys who knew how to put a gag in her mouth or even to "stick" the cow if she was badly bloated. Morning and evening after the cows were milked, Mother strained the warm milk into broad flat pans and placed them in the pantry for the cream to rise. Churning the cream into butter was sometimes a seemingly endless task, if the cream was too cold or too warm. Washing the butter and molding it into pound molds completed a task which took real skill, if the product was to be of first class quality. Fresh churned buttermilk was a valued product of the churning. 'The pans of clabbered milk were made into mounds of cottage cheese, or sometimes just to put a little sugar on the clabber made a delicacy for some members of the family. The smell of roasting bran and molasses stirred frequently as it browned in the oven, or left-over pieces of bread toasted a dark brown are another fond memory. 'These were steeped with water, strained, and served for breakfast with cream and sugar, as we prepare Postum. — Making soap. Was another of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1961 Mother's accomplishments. In the back yard was a huge brass kettle into which all the waste fat from the kitchen and pieces of suet from the butchered beef were placed with water and lye. These were boiled together to the right consistency, determined by testing. When the soap was cooled and hardened it was cut into squares and put on a board to cure. Soap purchased from the store was a special luxury and used only as a toilet article. '""Ready-made" clothes from the store were unknown to us. Underwear, petticoats, dresses, coats, and shirts were all fashioned by busy hands at home. Carefully washed flour sacks were made into petticoats and panties. Sometimes the name of. The milling company wouldn't wash out so that we might be labeled across the back. Father's worn-out suits were carefully washed and turned to make trousers for the boys. 'There was always a basket of stockings to darn. This was something Mother was especially careful about. No one was ever allowed to wear stockings or clothes that needed mending. OTHER was skilled at knitting, and I can still hear the click of the knitting needles as she knitted stockings for the family. This was her recreation, for she could read as she knit. Hand-knit wool I stockings were a great trial to me, for they made my legs itch unmercifully. Father, on the other hand, felt that he couldn't wear any socks except the wool ones Mother knitted. Besides the stockings, she knit many yards of beautiful lace for. Pillow slips and aprons. Piecing and making quilts were REMINISCINGS other never finished jobs. Mother took the wool which had _ been sheared and soaked and washed it. We children had the task of "picking" or loosening the matted fibers. Then Mother would card it into numerous small batts which she used for the filling of the quilts. When the quilt was ready on the frames, friends and relatives came for an allday quilting bee. 'This was a real social occasion and a chance for a good visit. LL worn-out clothing was carefully washed, then torn or cut into short or long strips about an inch wide. These strips were sewed together in hit and miss color combinations and then wound into big balls. The balls were stored in the closet until enough accumulated to have a new rag carpet or smaller rugs woven on the hand loom. Transportation was slow, but it was fun. There were always horses or burros to ride. Young people loved to go for hayrack rides in the moonlight, singing as they rode. Father had a span of extra fancy horses, and when we made the eighteen-mile journey in three hours to visit Grandmother, it was speed to talk about, quite as exciting as a jet plane ride today. And Grandma added another skill to those of my mother. She took the wheat straws and made beautiful braid which she sewed into hats for all the family. As you know, there were no movies, I'V, or radio or any commercial entertainment; but locally produced theatricals were most exciting. You knew the hero and villain personally, which added to the interest. Everyone who wished 431 to, had an opportunity to take part in the entertainment productions. Between acts there were songs, recitations, and instrumental musical selections. 'The weekly dances were a community activity, where young and old danced the quadrille, the schottische, and the Virginia reel together. What fun! There were no hospitals, doctors, or registered nurses, so the health of the community was everyone's concern. The Relief Society sisters were real angels of mercy, caring for the sick and comforting the distressed. When there was a death, it was the Relief Society sisters who cared for the body, made the burial clothes, and dressed the corpse. The men made the coffin, and the sisters lined it carefully. He grave was dug by friends, and when the coffin was lowered, the friends carefully covered the grave, while everyone stayed to comfort the mourners. 'The sorrow of one was the sorrow of the entire community. I am grateful for the wonderful modern conveniences and for all the exciting developments modern science has brought us. But I know they do not automatically bring happiness. There were some advantages in the busy, self-sufficient days of yesteryear. Some of that simple life can be recaptured with family camping trips or visits to rural areas. Such experiences should help us to re-evaluate and remind us that we Should not take our luxuries for granted nor consider them all-important. Happiness is achieved in individuals, not by flights to the moon or Mars, but in the satisfaction of mature adjustment to life as we find it. Thanks in old age... For precious ever-lingering memories (Walt Whitman). She Missing Gngredient Pansye H. Powell T four o'clock Miss Fannie placed the last jar of cherry preserves on the cellar shelf and stood back contentedly to survey the results of the hard work she had been doing for two days. 'There they were, lined up neatly in a row all to themselves — twenty pint jars of what she hoped would be the best cherry preserves put up that year in Clinton County. Her hope was based upon experience. For thirty years Miss Fannie Himes had taken the blue mbbon at the Clinton County Fair for the unsurpassed tastiness of her cherry preserves. She had experimented with recipes, finding none that produced results entirely to her liking, adding to and taking away from the original ingredients, until, finally, she had developed a recipe that never failed to win her plaudits from the judges. The slightly tart, uncloyving sweetness of her red cherry preserves had no equal, so the critics had said year after vear. To Miss Fannie this yearly tribute to her cooking ability was life's greatest achievement. She looked forward to it all during the long dull winter when, sometimes for weeks together, she was marooned in her farmhouse, connected to the rest of her world by only the telephone, and that, too, at times made useless by heavy sleet that froze on the wires. I Working around in her spotlessly clean home, she would pause to look out across the snow-covered lawn to her orchard, where the cherry trees stood silently enduring the onPage 432 slaught of cold weather. She knew they would live through it, they always had, but she suffered with them as the winds rattled their branches together and even broke off some of the precious twigs that would have borne crimson cargo.