the pioneer girls.
These women are a type of the men and women who have builded this commonwealth and maintained the faith of the founders of the Church, through all its varied scenes and vicissitudes. They have lived through and seen a multiplicity of changes in the life about them, until the life which the surviving sister now knows bears little resemblance to the life she knew when a child. They moved from the side of a river deep and dark to these mountain vales, where the streams sparkle and dance in the sunlight of a desert region.

Yet, those of the younger generation who are surrounded by the comforts and many of the luxuries of life, must not suppose that, through their hardships, the pioneers lost their cultural ideals. Susan Wells, and her sister, Lydia Ann, as well as other leading women of the community, frequently entertained at dinner the officers at Ft. Douglas, and they did it in a manner that would reflect credit on any people, at any time, and in any civilization. They were of the group who made up the audiences at the Salt Lake Theatre, and listened with rapt attention to the plays of Shakespeare and other classic writers. Forbes Robertson, the great English actor, thirty years after the event, in telling the story of his first appearance on the Salt Lake stage, in company with Mary Anderson, said that she played her role in "As You Like It" that evening as he had seldom known her to play it, and when he suggested to her the fact that she was doing unusually well, she responded by saying that her work was due in part to her audience. "One thing I know," she said, "these people understand and appreciate Shakespeare." The audience which elicited this compliment was made up of men and women, who, like Lydia Ann and Susan Wells, were in the main, pioneers.
SUSAN HANNAH ALLEY WELLS By Miss Louise Wells, Granddaughter
In the little town of Lynn, Massachusetts, on May 3rd, 1830, a third daughter, Susan Hannah Alley, was born to George and Mary Alley. When Susan was about ten years of age, her family moved to Salem, and while there, in 1840, the gospel of the Church of Jesus Christ was brought to them. They became convinced of its truth, and in 1842 were baptized. Their belief in the Church led them to join that body of pioneers who were then breaking the wilderness of the west. In the year 1842 they took their part in the western journey, made in the interest of a strong religious belief, and Nauvoo became their home. Here they lived at Kimball Street, Parley Hill. Susan Hannah and the other children of the family were baptized in the Mississippi river, in 1843.
In the city of Nauvoo, the members of the family witnessed the great sorrow of the pioneers at the martyrdom of their leader, and they, with the rest of the people, accepted Brigham Young as the true leader to fill the place of the Prophet. The father and mother with their children crossed the Mississippi river in the year 1846, preparatory to the journey west. The mother became ill while on this part of the journey, but after her recovery George Alley obtained a team and the family moved slowly westward. These children tasted of all the suf-
fering and hardships of the journey as well as of its pleasures and hopes. They played their part nobly in this great drama of the western movement, and later became citizens of the newly established kingdom. Their arrival in the valley of Salt Lake on the 20th of September, 1848, began their careers as settlers of a new country but these tasks were thankfully done for now they had located the place where they could worship in accordance with their faith.
A humble little log cabin formed their first home in the west and within its walls the family knew the struggles of pioneer life. From this first humble house, however, their industry led them to better things and the girls of the family grew to young womanhood destined to play their roles as mothers of the west.
In the year 1852, on the 18th day of April, Susan Alley married Daniel H. Wells. She is the mother of four children, three of whom are still living, Annette, George Alley, Stephen F. and Charles Henry. The west has always been the home of this family and of the descendants.
On this, the 24th day of July, these descendants honor their pioneer mother, through whose sacrifice they were given a great western home to live in and to progress as descendants of noble ancestors.
Grandma Wells today is the serene, calm, faithful mother who has passed into the winter of life with the assurance that her time has been honorably spent, having lived with one great sustaining faith in the truth of the religion for which she sacrificed, but from which she has reaped great hope and strength.
A SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF LYDIA A. ALLEY WELLS By Herself
I was born on January 1, 1828, at Lynn, Essex county, Mass. My parents were George Alley and Mary Symonds. My first ancestors in this country came over from England in 1634. My father's family sailed from London and settled in Lynn. My mother's family were from Kent county, England, and settled in Salem, Mass., the same year. My parents were married September 15, 1822, by Jesse Filmore, of Salem. I was their second daughter.
When I was between two and three years old they moved to Salem to my mother's childhood home, when I was thirteen years old the gospel was brought to us by Elders Erastus Snow and Benjamin Winchester, in 1841. My parents accepted and embraced it and were baptized in 1842. At the same time I also received a strong testimony of its divinity, which greatly impressed me, although I was but a child, and it has never left me.

In October of the same year they started with their family of seven children for Nauvoo, but did not arrive until the first of January, 1843. On account of the Mississippi river being frozen, we were obliged to remain at Alton, Ill., for about six weeks, when we started again and got as far as Quincy, and went by team the rest of the way. There we had the privilege of seeing the Prophet Joseph and listening to his voice, and to the words of inspiration that fell from his lips.
I shall never forget them, they are as vivid to my mind as if it were but yesterday they were uttered. I can testify of his divine mission and know for a surety that he was a prophet of the most high God. I was there at his martyrdom, and shared in the great sorrow with the people of God. I looked upon the faces of the prophet and the patriarch in death, and shall never forget them.
In 1848, I was baptized in the Mississippi river, at Nauvoo, by Elder Erastus Snow and confirmed by Elder Amasa Lyman.
In the summer of 1846 my father and family crossed the Mississippi preparatory to our journey west. We camped on the bank of the river for some time, then moved three miles to an encampment of the Saints, in a small grove, where we remained several weeks. My mother was very sick at this place, and we were fearful that we would have to leave her, but through the blessing of the Lord she recovered. In the meantime my father obtained a team and moved slowly westward, we went as far as Farmington, where we remained a few weeks. We then moved on a few miles to Bonapart where father obtained a quantity of flour, but being unable to take it with him left it at the mills and continued with his family as far as Mt. Pisgah; he then returned for his flour, but finding that the people there were very short of provisions, was persuaded by Brother Charles Rich to leave it there.
To me the journey through Iowa was the hardest part of our journey, as we were all sick with fever and ague, fortunately not all together, so that we had one at a time to take care of the rest. In the late fall we arrived at Winter Quarters, on the west side of the Missouri river, in tolerable good health, and enjoyed the rest and quiet, we had so much desired, from mobs and persecution.
In June, 1848, we again took up our march, for the valley of Salt Lake, in President Brigham Young's company, and arrived on the 20th of September, after a long and tedious journey, but very thankful to arrive at our journey's end. We passed through all the hardships incident to settling a new country, but were happy and cheerful, trusting in our heavenly Father's care.
We moved to the North Canyon for the winter, where we could have plenty of wood. Father built a log cabin, and we
moved into it the first of December. We were often without bread and subsisted on meat and root porridge and were often quite hungry; but the Lord blessed us, and we never felt to complain, but rejoiced in looking forward to the future, having full faith in our leaders.
In the spring of 1849 father moved his house and family to the city, and made our home in the Eighth ward. On the 3rd of April, 1852, I was married to Daniel H. Wells by President Brigham Young. I have had six living children, three of whom have passed to the other side, and three are still living, I have four grandchildren, all boys.
In the year 1868 the Relief Society was organized, and I became a member, but on account of young children did not take an active part until 1871, when I was appointed a teacher, which position I filled for several years. In 1873 I was appointed second counselor to Sister Rachel Grant, president of the Relief Society of the Thirteenth ward. In 1882 I was again set apart as first counselor in place of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, she having moved to the Seventeenth ward, which office I held until 1890, when I resigned that office, having moved to the Twentieth ward.
In 1882 I was called and set apart as president of the primary association of the Thirteenth ward, which office I held for five years. I was appointed and set apart as second counselor to president Ellen C. Clawson, of the Salt Lake stake Primary Association, which office I held until her death, after which I was chosen and set apart as first counselor to president Camilla Cobb, which office I held until the Salt Lake stake was divided, when all the officers were released.
In April, 1877, I accompanied my husband and daughter Kate, with his sons Junius and Heber, also his daughters Dessie and Emeline, to St. George to attend conference, and to witness the dedication of the temple at that place, which I appreciated and enjoyed very much. There we were baptized for many of our ancestors and attended to other ordinances for the dead. On our return we stopped at Manti, where President Brigham Young dedicated the ground for the temple at that place. I was also present at the dedication of the Logan temple, in 1885. I again visited that temple in company with my sister Susan accompanied by my son Louis and her son Stephen who there received their endowments. We stayed two weeks and worked for our dead, we afterwards returned and did considerable work at different times. I was not present at the dedication of the Manti temple but visited it many times to attend to temple work and had much joy in my labors. In 1893 I was called by President Lorenzo Snow to be a worker in the Salt Lake temple, but

on account of sickness I was unable to respond until September 18, when I was set apart to this office by President Lorenzo Snow, assisted by Brothers Winder and Madsen, which office I still hold and hope to continue as long as my health will permit. I am now (January, 1905) seventy-seven years old and I feel very thankful to my heavenly father for being permitted to take part in this glorious work, for I know it is the work of God, and I hope to be faithful to the end.
Sister Wells had her heart's desire granted. She did remain faithful and true to the end of her life. She died August 6, 1909, at the age of eighty-one, in Salt Lake City, honored, beloved, and respected by all who had been so fortunate as