[Vol5 | August 1918 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: The Temple in Jerusalem Frontispiece Jerusalem Restored Jas.]

The Temple in Jerusalem. Susa Young Gates. In connection with the wonderful developments now going forward in Jerusalem our people are intensely interested in the rebuilding of Solomon's temple. As a matter of fact no one knows at the present day the complete details of that once glorious structure. Details are given in the Bible with considerable clearness in I and II Chronicles and I Kings. But the Temple was destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar in 586 B. C., and rebuilt 70 years later through Cyrus and Darius who sent Ezra and Nehemiah to rebuild their revered temple. This was in the year B. C. 522. Again the temple was destroyed by Antiochus, about B. C. 162, and again rebuilt by Herod in a far more elaborate fashion, its completion scarcely accomplished during the Savior's life. Forty years after the Savior's crucifixion, the whole structure was destroyed by Titus, "Not one stone left upon another." In later centuries the Gentile Turk built his mosque upon the sacred site, which remains to this day. Solomon's Temple crowned the highest point of Mt. Moriah and was a very small building compared with the temples in which the Latter-day Saints worship. Jerusalem itself is built upon hills, and Mt. Moriah was a hilly place across the gulch from the old city of Jerusalem where David offered sacrifices after he saw the angel of the Lord standing upon the sacred rock. This spot of ground belonged to one of the original owners of Jerusalem, an old Jebusite named Araunah who gave David the holy site over which the angel had lingered. This Jebusite chieftain not only offered David the land as a free gift but added oxen and implements with which to offer a burnt offering. David refused to accept the free gift and paid 600 shekels of gold for the ground and 50 shekels for the oxen. He built an altar to Jehovah on the rock where the angel had rested and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings and then dedicated the spot to Jehovah, for it was here he saw the angel of the Lord. The rock upon which the offering was made is considered the most holy spot in all Jerusalem and the rock is about the only remnant left of the original temple. Upon this rock in later centuries the Turks have built one of their own sacred houses named The Mosque of Omar. (See cut.) This Mosque is lavishly decorated and a view of the rock within the interior of the Mosque we also present to our readers. The rock measures 40 by 50 feet and presents an oblong, uneven surface surrounded by a railing 
 MOSQUE OF OMAR BUILT OVER THE SITE, SACRED ROCK OF SOLOMON'S TEMPLE it has been viewed by tens of millions of pilgrims of all lands and races. Apostle Orson Hyde, President Lorenzo Snow, his sister, Eliza R. Snow, and President George A. Smith, and in later years, President Anthon H. Lund have all stood upon this sacred spot and viewed the stone, which stands as a memorial of mercies of God to David and to Solomon and which alone remained after the destruction of the great temple following the crucifixion of the Master. We are presenting as our frontispiece a picture of Herod's Temple prepared by experts who have studied the Bible thoroughly and who had a picture made which as nearly as possible presents the original scheme of the Temple. Although the Temple was rebuilt after Solomon's death by Ezra and Nehemiah and later by Herod, the original plan was followed it is supposed by the builders; there were differences, it is true, but not essential ones. An immense retaining wall was first built around the THE TEMPLE IN JERUSALEM. 
 east, south and western sides of the hill. This retaining wall has also been largely destroyed, although there is one section of the mammoth structure still left, and it is against this ancient segment of the temple wall that the Jews have gathered periodically all down the centuries to wail and pray for the rebuilding of the sacred temple and city. This bit of wall is called, "The Wailing Place." The eastern gate was a magnificent gate opening on to a bridge which in Herod's day, as shown in our picture, was an arched passage or roadway over the valley between the temple and the Mt. of Olives. The hilly space in the temple enclosure was divided in three terraces. The outer or lower terrace was a wide courtyard known as the Gentiles' Court, containing priests' quarters on west side with great shambles where the sacrificial animals were kept and slaughtered. The second terrace, perhaps fifty feet higher than the lower terrace, was known as the "Court of the Women," the 
 upper court or terrace being called "Court of the Priests," where only the various priests, singers, and temple officials were allowed to come. The first or lower court was where the lay members of the Jewish people together with their women and the general public assembled for the daily rituals and ceremonies attendant upon the offerings of the morning or evening sacrifices. The second terrace, approached through the Gate Beautiful which was a magnificent structure of gold-covered and richly carved latticework, contained enclosures where the priests themselves and the 3,000 singers, both male and female, all of them, by the way, necessarily belonging to the tribe of Levi, gathered and marched around in the performance of the magnificent daily service. Above this rose the sacred hill whereon was built the temple proper. The temple itself, was only about 90 feet long and 30 feet wide, although Ezra's Temple contained many small chambers filled with altars around the three sides, two stories in height, leaving the upper stories free for the lattice windows which gave a dim light to the interior of the Holy Place and the "Holy of Holies." At the entrance of the Holy Place proper on each side were two richly ornamented pillars of bronze, with hanging wreaths of pomegranates in the same metal. These pillars stood about 35 feet high from base to top. The entrance was a wide and lofty folding door of Cyprus wood, ornamented with carved figures of cherubim, palms and flowers all overlaid with gold. Within the entrance of the porch, one gazed upon the Holy Place, which was what might be called the outer room of the temple. The walls of this room, made of cedar and Cyprus, were all covered or overlaid with gold. The room was thirty feet wide by sixty feet long, so it is said by students, although there is considerable difference of opinion regarding the size of the enclosures. On one side of the Holy Place in olden times stood ten golden tables which contained the ten loaves of shew-bread symbolic of the offering of the Ten Tribes of Israel with innumerable golden vessels used in the sanctuary. On the other side was a golden table containing a seven-branched golden candlestick; all of this furniture being most richly carved and embroidered with glittering golden palms and flowers and leaves. In the center stood the small golden altar of incense whereon the fire was never allowed to go out. The Holy Place was entered only by the priests in service, while the Holy of Holies  which was the back or inner room  was visited but once a year by the High Priest himself who went in to offer prayer for the children of Israel. The veils which hung between these two rooms across partitions, were two; an outer veil of richly embroidered oriental fabric of purple and golden threads with the inner white linen veil. (Ex. Chapt. 26.) Within the Holy of Holies was the Ark of the Covenant which was brought from Kirjath-jearim by David after the wanderings in the wilderness. It was placed within the Holy of Holies by Solomon at the dedication of the temple. The Ark was made of olive wood covered with gold and was also most richly decorated with carvings of leaves and flowers, while upon it were two cherubims with great golden wings outstretched over the Ark and touching in the center. This Ark rested upon a standard and had two poles thrust in the rings on the sides by which it was carried in the wilderness by the Priests of Aaron. No one knows what became of the Ark at the first destruction of the temple by Nebuchadnezzar nor of its contents, which were the Tables of Stone, the Rod of Aaron that blossomed, the Pot of Manna and the Urim and Thummim. This room, although built originally of wood, was overlaid with beaten gold, in its perfumed silence and exquisite glory, typified the mystic majesty of the God of Jacob and Solomon. In front of the Porch of the Temple stood the prodigious brazen altar which it is said by some was built by Ezra over BRAZEN ALTAR AND APPROACH. the sacred stone although others claim that the sacred stone was left in the Holy of Holies. On this altar, however, were offered the daily sacrifices, the priest going within the Holy Place to there obtain a coal from the fire which never died out on that altar of incense, with which to light the fires on the Altar of daily sacrifice. On one side of this great altar stood the "Brazen Sea" about which no one knows and which the commentaries endeavor to 
 explain. The Saints understand it was their font of baptism, both for the living and the dead. This font held over sixteen thousand gallons of water, besides this there were ten lavers of bronze enriched with carvings of palm trees, lions and cherubim mounted on carved bronze wheels to move about within the Temple Courts. MOLTEN SEA OR BAPTISMAL FONT. When Herod rebuilt the temple, he made the temple walls, pillars, colonnades, and pavements of the three terraces of lovely white marble instead of using stone or wood. He used beaten gold to cover the roofs of the temple and the colonnades, also the gate lattice work was all done in richly carved golden flowers, palms and figures. So that the whole structure as recorded by Josephus "resembled a snow-covered mountain, and the light reflected from the gilded porch dazzled the spectator like the sun's own rays." Solomon's Temple was forty years in building, although only seven years covered the period of actual construction. Herod occupied but eight years in actual work, although the complete decorations occupied seventy-two years more, lasting almost to its final destruction. In this ancient temple daily sacrifices were offered; yet the upper altars, the sacrament and services indicated in Leviticus, and the veil of the temple itself, speak eloquently of more and higher symbolism than would appear to the uninitiated. When the sons of Aaron offer an offering in righteousness and when the glory of the Lord shall be upon Mount Zion in the Lord's House (Doc. and Cov. 84:31,32), in this generation, then indeed will the Sun of Righteousness arise with healing in His wings. Meanwhile the following account of the projected plan made a decade ago by Free Masons to rebuild the temple will interest our readers: THE TEMPLE IN JERUSALEM. 433 Washington Post, Sunday, May 30, 1909. King Solomon's Temple, which was erected a thousand years before the birth of Christ, and destroyed by Titus in September, A. D. 70, may be rebuilt in Jerusalem with the aid of archaeological work done by the late R. S. Faulkner, and Mrs. Aaron Morley Wilcox. The latter has lived at the Arlington Hotel for 25 years. Mrs. Wilcox, who has devoted her time to archaeological research and the study of economics, has just finished distributing 400 charts of Solomon's Temple. Copies of the Chart were given to the Masons of Washington, the Catholic University, George Washington University, and many bishops of various denominations. Besides these, Mrs. Wilcox sent a number of charts to New England, where the Masons have started a movement to re-erect the temple of "the father of all Masons," as Solomon is called. The chart is most elaborate and satisfying in its detail. It represents the life work of Mr. Faulkner, who died shortly after completing it. The foundation stones were tumbled down by Titus and his army, and for more than eighteen centuries there has been little, if anything, to suggest what was probably one of the most magnificent marble structures ever erected. MADE EXHAUSTIVE RESEARCH Early in life Mr. Faulkner became interested in the history of the wonderful temple, where the ark of the covenant, the brazen altar, Solomon's innumerable wives, and priceless jewels and ornaments were kept. No plan or drawing of the temple was in existence. Mr. Faulkner read Scripture and archaeological works, picking up details. He also visited the Holy Land. After years and years of study he had accumulated enough facts from passages in Scripture and old books and manuscripts to frame an idea as to the general appearance of its outer and inner walls, as well as the location of the arches, pillars, altars, and rooms of the various personages. With this knowledge, Mr. Faulkner began to prepare the chart, and after years of labor he placed it in the hands of an engraver in 1885. A short time later, however, Mr. Faulkner died, leaving his life's work to his heirs. Hearing that Mrs. Wilcox was one of the foremost archaeologists in America, and had given considerable time to the study of early religious history, one of Mr. Faulkner's heirs sent her the original drawing made by him. Everywhere the chart has attracted genuine, widespread and 
 unabatable interest. Church people were no more enthusiastic over it than the members of the Masonic orders of the country, and Hebrews and Gentiles alike were eager to obtain copies of it. MASONS INTERESTED IN IDEA Recently Mrs. Wilcox observed that the Masons of Massachusetts, who hold sacred the memory of King Solomon, had inaugurated a movement to rebuild the temple. This movement was in accord with one started by the American Archaeological Society in Jerusalem, of which Mrs. Wilcox is a correspondent. Several weeks ago Mrs. Wilcox received a letter from the teacher of a school in Jerusalem asking that interest in the rebuilding of Solomon's Temple be stimulated, and that funds be raised to begin the work. The teacher declared that one of the brass candlesticks which stood in the temple had been dredged from the Jordan River, and that slabs of marble from the structure had also been found. It is probable that if the temple is rebuilt by the Masons and church people of the world many of the stones and objects which ornamented the original structure will be placed in it, as archaeologists believe they will unearth many new treasures within the next few years.