[Vol5 | August 1918 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS. A77 (b) Next comes interest in parents and children. (c) So, in enlarging curves Of interest are facts and dates of grandparents, relatives and progenitors. (d) These genealogical interests are common to humanity. It is a divine provision. This human tendency partially explains the interest of the world in biography, and especially in genealogy. 2. Narrowing down our inquiry, we apply this universal fact to the members of the Church, who have learned that salvation is never and never can be wholly a selfish matter. In saving others we save ourselves. (a) If we desire to save others, especially the dead, what steps are necessary? (b) First, a knowledge that our relatives and friends lived at certain times and places, i. c, an acquaintance with their genealogy. (c) Second, vital data about a dead person is like the features of the faces. 3. We should follow the best method of securing and preparing genealogical data. (a) When we enter a genealogical library, the first information suggested by the intelligent librarian is: Where did your family originate? What is the history of your surname? And we are sent to search surname books for the answer. Growing out of this genealogical search we ask ourselves: Where was I born? When? Where and when were my parents, and finally my progenitors born? Then these questions arise: If they were English, what particular race strain did they belong to? Celtic? Anglo-Saxon? Danish? Norman? If my progenitors were Normans, I ask next: Who were the Normans? The Normans came to England with William the Conqueror. Who was William the Conqueror? William the Conqueror took possession of England. When did he enter England? In the year 1066. He made a Domesday Book. What is this Domesday Book? A survey of England in 1088. Where did the Normans originate? They were originally Teutons. Who were the Teutons? The Aryans of northern Europe, including the High and Low Germans and the Scandinavians. Where did they come from? When did they enter Europe? They probably came from the Ten Tribes. Who were the Ten Tribes? Where did they come from? Who was Jacob? Shem? Noah? Thus the links fasten, back and still back to Adam. 
 Conclusion. The first and last question is: Where did I spring from? The Lord said He would take one of a city and two of a family. If all this is true, Saints need to study surname books. There are no surname books now on the market. Hence, we are publishing one, which is a compilation of the best surname information to be found in all the books so far published. Our Book will not inform individuals about their family history, but it will point the sure way to get at the root-sources of that information. Note.  Do not correspond with temples to learn if work has been done on your lines. The Genealogical Library has been supplied with index cards representing work done in different temples. NOTICE. Cards were issued about two years ago, by the Genealogical Society of Utah, on which it was desired that the surnames of all family lines, for whom Temple ordinances had been performed, should be entered with other specified information, one card only for each family surname. The sisters of the Relief Societies were solicited to assist in having those cards filled out, and a great quantity were issued to be used by the sisters when visiting the families in their respective districts. Only a small proportion of the cards have been returned to the Genealogical Society office, and the sisters who still have them in their possession are respectfully requested to interest themselves in getting the cards filled out, and returned to the President or Secretary of their local organization, who will deliver them to the stake representative of the Genealogical Society to be forwarded to the office. The cards are to be filed in the office of the Genealogical Society, for the important purpose of aiding members of the Church in Temple work, the cards showing what family lines have had the ordinances performed in their behalf, and by whom. Elder Duncan M. McAllister, Temple Recorder, says: "The sisters who are unable to personally perform Temple ordinance work, or who have completed such work in behalf of individuals intheir own family lines, but who, nevertheless, feel the need for further assisting in the accomplishment of that most important obligation devolving upon Latter-day Saints, have, in some of the Relief Society organizations, provided a fund for the hire of proxies to perform endowments in behalf of the dead kindred of those who cannot themselves aflford expenditure for that purpose. GUIDE LESSONS. 479 "Great blessings and satisfaction accrue to all who actively participate in Temple work, who directly, or indirectly, assist in g-ettingthat important duty performed, and we highly commend the establishing of donation funds for the purpose mentioned. "It is recommended that money thus donated should be used in behalf of the dead kindred of members of the respective Relief Societies with whom the donors are associated, preferably from lists of names furnished by members who are unable to pay for the hire of proxies. The money thus gathered, with the lists of names of the dead, for whom endowments are to be performed, should be sent to the Temple of the district in which the Relief Society is located. "If lists of names, for endowments for the dead, cannot furnished by members of the Relief Society, or by other membersbe of the Church residing in the ward where the Society is located, and who need to be assisted in getting that sacred work done, the money should be forwarded to the Temple with instructions to have it used for the purpose intended on the lists that have been filed in the Temple by any of the Saints who cannot themselves perform^ the ordinances, and who cannot afford to pay for the hire of proxies. "When proxies for money endowment is sent to the Temple by Relief Societies, to pay s, with no lists of names of the dead accompanying same, the statement might be made that it is desired it should be used for women proxies (fifty cents each), rather than for men proxies (seventy-five cents each). That preference issuggested not only because the money could thus be used for a larger number of endowments, but also because there is, usually, a much larger attendance of women than of men in the Temple, and it is more difficult to procure the services of the men, but also that, as the money donated for the hire of proxies comes mostly from the sisters of the Relief Societies, it seems most appropriate touse it for the endowment of women." Home Courses. LESSON IV. Fourth Week in September. renovation of millinery and materials. Probably few articles of wearing apparel cost more for the materials used on them and the short period of wear than hats. 
 It is timely, therefore, to offer some suggestions for early Fall on renovation of millinery materials and their adaptation to hats new and old. ) Velvet.  Velvet may be freshened and wrinkles removed by steaming. To steam put a wet cloth over a hot iron and draw the velvet back and forth through the steam, having the wrong side of the velvet next to cloth. Brush with a soft bristle brush to raise the pile. Spots may be removed from velvet and plush by sponging with chloroform (never use in a close room). Chloroform will often restore color to faded materials.. Felt.  Felt of any color may be cleaned with sandpaper. Cover a small wooden block with No. 00 sandpaper and use the block as a brush. Begin at center top of hat and proceed in a circular direction until the whole hat has been cleaned. Remove the sandpaper, cover the block with velvet and go over the hat as before. The velvet will smooth down the felt. If the velvet block is rubbed on a hot iron and then on a block of parafifin wax, it will be still more effective. White felts may be cleaned by rubbing with French chalk, powdered borax or cornmeal. Natural Colored Straiv.  Hats of milan, leghorn, etc., in natural color, may be cleaned with a paste made of the juice of one lemon and two tablespoons of sulphur. Rub the hat thoroughly with this paste and when dry brush off the powder. White Strazv  White straw hats, including panamas, may be cleaned with a weak solution of oxalic acid water. Dissolve a tablespoon of oxalic acid in one pint of water. Scrub the hat quickly with the solution, using a stiff brush. (Do not put the hands in the acid). After the hat has been cleaned, rinse the acid off by going over the hat with a cloth wet in clear water. Avoid getting the straw too wet, as this causes the hat to lose its shape. When nearly dry, the hat may be pressed lightly under a damp cloth. Prepared cleaners for white straw may be purchased at the drug stores. Panama.  Panamas may also be cleaned by washing in soap and water. Colored Straws  Colored straws, if not faded, may be freshened by washing with a sponge wet in wood alcohol. This method is very good for black straws. Wood alcohol being poisonous should he kept away from children. GUIDE LESSONS. 481 To Renew Faded Strazv Hats.  Badly faded or soiled shapes can be dyed the same or a darker shade with one of the several reliable hat dyes for sale at drug stores. When carefully applied the hat may be made to look like new. To Stiffen Straw.  Shapes which have lost their stiffness may be stiffened by pressing lightly under a damp cloth. Never press directly on any straw; have a cloth between the straw and the iron. To Change the Shape.  To change the shape of a hat, dampen the hat and while soft and pliable bend into desired shape. Catch up brim where desired with strong thread. Leave until dry. To make a brim droop, hold the hat up and press a bit of the under brim at a time. The movement should be sideways from the' crown outward. Lace.  Silk laces should be dry cleaned or washed in gasoline. Cotton laces can be washed in soap and water. Fill a fruit jar half full of warm soap suds or borax water. Put lace in jar and fasten top securely. Shake well until lace is thoroughly washed. Refill jar with rinse water and rinse by shaking the lace in the jar. Take out the lace and spread it on a dry cloth, pulling the scallops into shape. When dry the lace may be pressed lightly. In washing any kind of lace the main point to remember is to avoid rubbing. Ribbons.  Ribbons may be cleaned by sponging with denatured alcohol. Good ribbons may be washed in soap and water. Always press between cloths or paper. Feathers.  White or light colored feathers may be washed in a thin paste of gasoline and flour, or gasoline and plaster of paris. To one pint of gasoline, add two tablespoons of flour or plaster of paris. Clean the feather by putting it in the paste and rubbing it from the stem to the tips of the flues. Do not rub the flues back and forth, but move the fingers always in the same direction. When the feather is clean, draw it through the tightly closed hand to squeeze out the gasoline. Shake a few minutes; then finish drying in cornstarch on a piece of tissue paper and rub the feather lightly in the starch until dry. Shake the starch out and the feathers will be found to be clean and fluffy. Washing a White Plume.  When a white or light plume becomes badly soiled, it can be washed with soap and water, the disadvantage of this method being that the feather must be re
 curled. Make a suds of ivory soap and warm water. Let the feather soak in this an hour or two. Then wash by drawing through the hand. When clean rinse the feather first in clear water and then in wood alcohol. After squeezing out the alcohol, dry the feather in corn starch. Recurl using a silver knife. Black or Dark Colored Feathers.  Black or dark feathers may be cleaned by washing in wood alcohol. Shake this feather until dry. Pur.  Fur may be cleaned by brushing thoroughly with very hot bran. Use a stiff brush. Have the fur stretched firmly to the ironing board. After brushing, shake the fur to remove the bran. This not only cleans the fur but also makes it glossy. Flowers. Soiled flowers become freshened and stiffened by shaking them over a steaming cloth. Faded flowers can be dipped into a tinting preparation, or they can be touched up with a small paint brush and usually look like new. To make the tinting preparation, dissolve oil paint, in gasoline. The oil paint can be bought in small tubes in a great variety of colors. Such things as chiffons, thin silks, malines, and feathers can also be tinted in gasoline and oil paint. Tinting is diff'erent from dyeing and only light shades can be produced  red paint tinting pink, etc. Tinting should never be done near a fire or in a closed room. Always test a sample before putting in the article to be colored. THE RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL. The Relief Society School for Nursing will open as usual in September. The course will consist of general instruction in nursing, and will include in addition practical demonstrations in nursing, and lectures on Invalid Cooking, First Aid, Sterilization, Drugs and Solutions, Contagious Diseases, Hydrotherapy, Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases. The lectures will be given by specialists. Circulars containing information will be sent to Relief Society presidents. For further information address Mrs.
Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.