Mother Love. By Sophy Valentine. I am a lawyer by profession. A short time ago I was called by distant relatives of a dear old client of mine, who had just died, to be administrator of her small estate. I had only known her about four or five years and not very intimately; but the few times I had had occasion to speak with her I had been impressed by the sweet, patient face, particularly by her eyes, that seemed to have something unearthly in them. I saw her almost daily, as I used to pass her house on the way to my office. She would sit by the window among a few potted flowers and look as if she were always waiting for someone. Her hair was white and her face was colorless; but I do not know why I thought her so very old, unless it was that she never seemed to one doing anything; but always sat looking as if waiting for someone I found, in looking over her papers, that she was only sixty five years old when she died, and among some documents, neatly put away, I found a diary which I read with much interest. I give here a few extracts from its pages, for they seemed even to me, a busy man, particularly pathetic. April 19.  It is springtime, the birds are singing; the trees are sprouting; the flowers are budding, and here within my heart is glorious springtime, too, and gladness  oh, such joy; for I, who was barren for twelve years, have been blessed above all that I dared to hope. A child is coming to our home: a son, perhaps, whom we can train to walk in the footsteps of his father  dear, good man  he is almost as happy as I am. Or  I whisper it softly, sweetly to myself and to God  a little girl! A little girl, with all the weaknesses of her poor, foolish mother; but still a woman like unto me; my very own flesh, that T can train to walk in the path that she should go. A little girl that I can love and cherish and cuddle and spoil and sing to and dress like the dearest little doll and"  . But I must stop. And then I begin and say it all over; and I sing from morning till night. August.  Full, ripe summer. My joy, my bliss is complete. Words fail me: for here in my arms, here at my heart, even while T write, is nestling an angel so sweet, so white, so beautiful! A little girl, so fresh from heaven that I feel the heavenly atmosphere about her. Oh, how can T tell those who do not know, the joy, the wonderful experience of motherhood! T am no longer an ordinary woman. I am a mother! I beam and smile on everybody and everything that comes near me. I kneel by my baby's cradle and look at her, and worship God through her. T devour her with kisses when she wakes. I sing to her the most beautiful songs. I never was a poetess before. I 
 sing to her of the wonderful life she is to have; the joy she is to bring to others; I sing of the joy she has brought me and her father; f sing of the glorious world has come to in which she has only given me the greatest happiness. Whatever has come of trials or disappointments, she was my comfort, my solace. May.  I am a widow now. but she fills the empty place, she soothes all aches and pains. For me ten years of such bliss  should I not be the most grateful being? Should 1 not take what  comes of sorrow uncomplainingly? Yet, a few mouths ago, when she was so ill and the doctors gave no hope, when she lay there burning with fever, I would not say, 'Thy will be done, oh, Father!" 1 cried, 1 pleaded and begged that he would be merciful and let me keep her. my flower, my heart see! and now I rejoice and sing again in the gladness of my heart, for God was merciful and let me keep her. October.  The leaves are falling; the flowers are gone; the trees stand empty and forlorn-looking, stretching their naked arms heavenward, as if beseeching for help against the coming storms. I, too, stand alone, stretching my arms toward heaven, pleading for help against the storm that T know is coming. For my child has gone  gone where her beauty and her love of flattery and finery led her into the whirlpool of worldly folly, and vanity. And the worms are gnawing at the roots of my white rose, and the winds of vice are tarnishing the delicate leaves. And T hold my arms out and beseech my sweet flower to come and nestle once more here at my heart, where it belongs. But my child laughs me to scorn, and she turns her listening ear to those who whisper idle, empty, flattering words that be mean her sweet womanhood. T see her each day drifting farther away from me and from God, and in the anguish of my heart, I lift my voice to God and beg Him to be merciful and take her. January.  Winter has spread her white winding sheet over the dark and ugly places and has made the world look so fair and white. They have laid my darling in a beautiful cradle once more; with silken covers and lace trimmed cushions. They have folded her hands on her breast; and her eyes are closed and her lips are cold. And on the white round cheeks rest the silken lashes it softly. And T nestle my head close to hers and whisper the same sweet names T called her twenty years ago. T kiss the lips that no more shall be tarnished by unholy and ungodly words. An 1 T throw my arms over her cradle, and once more she is close to the heart whose every beat was for her. And T weep for the long and lonely years that must be mine, when winter shall come and go while 1 wait for my rosebud's kiss once more. And I whisper my thanks to God, who was merciful and took her before she lost her womanly pearl of great price: she was vain and forgot God, but He has not forgotten her. T can still praise Him! PITTSBURGH RELIEF SOCIETY. Notes from the Field. By Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary. Eastern States Mission. Pittsburg. Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley and Mrs. Amy B. Lyman have just returned from attending the National Council of Charities and Corrections Pittsburg, Pa. While in Pittsburg, they had the privilege of visiting the local Relief Society, which they found to be in splendid working condition, with capable officers and wide-awake members. The President of this organization is Mrs. Annie H. Rhinehart, a sympathetic and charming woman who actsand in the capacity of a real mother to the members of the branch, to the missionary boys and girls. It will be interesting to Relief Society workers to learn something of the methods used in the Eastern and Northern States missions for the purpose of stimulating Relief Society work, and of raising funds for the maintenance of the local branches. F astern States Mission. Following are some extracts from a letter recently received -
 from Miss Margaret Edward, President of the Relief Societies in the Eastern States mission: "In Philadelphia, a bazaar was given in a rented hall, where supper was served at 25c a plate. Quilts, domestic articles, and needle work were sold, the proceeds amounting to $100.81. After paying expenses, there was a net gain of $25. In Pittsburg, a similar affair was given, at which $50 was cleared. This is the second bazaar given within a year, the two clearing over $100. At Charleston, West Virginia, the first bazaar ever attempted was held, and $25 cleared. At Toronto. Canada, the Society also held its first bazaar, pitting $15 therefrom. I certainly feel that the women of our mission deserve great credit for the efforts they are putting forth in Relief Society work. Each branch consists of only a mere handful of people. and I doubt if the members in Utah would accomplish as much as these do. under the circumstances. In most of the branches, the Relief Society is attempting to purchase individual sacrament sets. I wish to quote from a letter of Mrs. Harriet Westmancotte, regarding the Magazine. Mrs. Westmacott is president of the Relief Society at Toronto, Canada. 'The Magazine seems as a friend to me. who is telling me of the good news of our Society and Church, so we should not like to be without it. The General Board gives us so many good things that we each and all should gain much knowledge that we could put into practice in our daily duties, if carefully considered." Northern States Mission. Mrs. Ellsworth, of the Northern States mission, sends the following notes: Detroit  The Latter-day Saints arc all working hard to own a chapel of their own. A most successful bazaar and social was given recently. One very pleasing and profitable feature of the program was their sending out postal cards to friends outside of the city, asking for a donation of a package that could be sold for 15c. with the results that over two hundred articles were received,  the majority coming from Utah and Idaho. Tt made our local members very happy to receive the love and good wishes that each parcel seemed to carry. The local members all contributed liberally and everyone worked hard to make the evening a success. A splendid program was carried out. Refreshments sold: $62 was realized. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 451 Indianapolis  A bazaar and social were recently held with attractive booths decorated in St. Patrick attire. A program was rendered. Games were played and a general good time bad by all. Over one hundred were in attendance, perhaps one half of those being strangers, friends and investigators. Milwaukee  The two societies joined together and gave a box social. Each sister prepared luncheon for two. The boxes were sold to the gentlemen. A pleasant social time was enjoyed and $12 was realized. La Crosse  This society is a Mothers' Class, which meets at the home of members. A social evening was given recently; a program was rendered and a delicious luncheon was served. Waterloo  Here we have another Mother's Class and the; evening's entertainment was held at the home of one of the saints The room was decorated and a program was carried out, after which parlor games were played and refreshments served. Peru and Kokomo  These two cities are located near each other. At each place a program with parlor games and refreshments furnished the evening's entertainment. Many friends and investigators were present. At Peru, a male quartette of investigators, directed by one of the Hers. furnished several musical numbers, Evansville  Here we have a pretty little church. This was divided off into booths representing each day of the week and a calendar party was given. Monday (washday.) Alt in this booth* was material that would be used in washing. Tuesday (ironing; day). The booth was filled with laundered towels, napkins, wax,, ironing sheets, pads, handles, etc., which were sold. Wednesday baking with filled day). Home This conked booth looked articles like donated a delicatessen by the shop, being' members. Thursday (entertaining day). Here were found fancy articles for sale, comfortable chairs were placed for the mothers with little ones, and light refreshments were served. Friday (sweeping and cleaning day). Caps, aprons, brooms, brushes, mops, chamois skins, etc.. were sold. Saturday (preparing for Sunday booth was filled with church literature which was given away and sold, and many tracts and pamphlets were distributed. This was one of the best little socials this branch has ever enjoyed. $52 was cleared. Minneapolis  The Society of Minneapolis gave a very successful bazaar in a hall which was rented for this purpose; $50 was cleared, and a meeting was held in connection with the bazaar, and the president of the Conference spoke of the Relief Society and its work. Others of the eHers spoke on the mission of saving wheat, and temple work. The hall was well filled; with investigators, strangers and members. $50 was cleared.. -3 
 Roseland  (South Chicago) Here a box social was enjoy I by the branch and Relief Society combined. This social was given for the purpose of raising means to renovate the church. Springfield  Here an entertainment was given which the president reports was a success in every way; $18 was realized. Logan Square  The Chicago saints and their friends gave a most successful supper and musical program in the basement of the Logan Square chapel, which was beautifully decorated for the occasion. Supper was served to about one hundred and fifty people. The financial success of the undertaking was largely due to Mr. J. Frank Pickering who acted as chairman of the publicity committee. He arranged a four-page three column herald, containing the history of the Relief Society and of the wheat saving mission. Five thousand copies were distributed. A very pleasing feature was the hearty response given us by the merchants and business men of Logan Square, who responded unanimously to the solicitation for advertisements for the paper. About $50 was realized from this source. The Mutual Improvement Association had charge of the program, and also contribute 1 home-made candy which was sold at a good price. The serving at the tables was done by our lady missionaries. We were especially pleased with the number of strangers who came in for supper. About $125 was cleared. Carbon Stake. A very enjoyable and successful entertainment was given at Sunnyside, Utah, on Wednesday evening. May 2, in honor of Mrs. Martha Bennett. President of the Sunnys ward, who has severed her connections with the Relief Society in Sunnyside. or account of changing her residence to Salt Lake City. An elaborate banquet was given in her honor, which was followed by a program and dancing. The program consisted, principally, of eulogies on Mrs. Bennett, her unselfish devotion to Relief Society work, her loyalty to the cause, her integrity, her sunny disposition, her untiring efforts, and her many charitable deeds. To emphasize her noble qualities, one of the workers applied to her the following quotation from Elbert Hubbard: "And so T sing the praises of such a woman; the woman who 'Vies her work, who is willing to be unknown, who is modest and unaffected. who tries to lessen the pains of earth and to add to it*- happiness. She is the true guardian angel of mankind." Reorganization. St. Joseph Stake. The St. Joseph stake Relief Society has recently been reorganized. Mrs. Elizabeth W. Layton, who has so faithfully and efficiently filled the office of Stake President, ha? found it necessary, on account of poor health, to resign her p