GUIDE LESSONS. 477 are two good lessons; but the greatest things accomplished are teaching him to use only his own color in winks, also to wait his turn to play. In this way he learns to respect the rights of others. There is no better time or way to teach honesty than in gaming. The boy who will play a good clean game no matter who wins or loses will be strong enough in character to deal honestly in examinations at school and in every act of life. How often in social gatherings, where games were indulged in, have we seen grown ups who were not satisfied to follow the rules but would cheat or play unfair in order to gain points. I think one is safe in concluding that the person who allows himself to do such a thing even in a game would take advantage of his neighbor and would not be honest in business. Parents who play with their children have a chance to teach them the games according to rules, and the children who play them correctly for years will find no pleasure in doing otherwise. When such children enter the public school they will not feel that the rules are hard to follow, and when grown up they are not apt to be the law breakers in the community. Parents, we cannot be impressed too seriously with the importance of the first lessons we teach our children. Their characters are formed under our immediate care and we are responsible for their conduct. Going back to the games. With tiddledy winks, we may class  crocinole. carrum, marbles, etc.. in which the hand and eye are trained. For number work, flinch cards on which the figures from 1 to 15 are found are useful, and dominoes are good in the hands of the little folks. They soon learn that 5-10- 15 and 20 are the numbers that score, and that these are formed by adding the numbers at each end of the line, for example: 2 and 3 equal 5. 4 and 1 equal 5, 5 and blank equal 5, 1 and double 2 equal 5. Then quickly learn that double 6 and double 4 equal 20 the highest score at one play. Children who learn these things in play before they reach school age are a step in advance of one whose first acquaintance with numbers in the public school where they are given as a task. In selecting play things care and thought must be exercised to gain the best results. One good desirable toy or useful game is better than a number of poor ones. Toys that are easily broken are not suitable for children because they teach a child to be destructive and careless, or in some instances cause the shedding of tears. Examples: Tin toys instead of iron, china and glass dishes instead of enamel, paper books for tiny tots instead of muslin, and so on all along the line. Good playthings  kindergarten balls in colors. Kindergarten beads in colors and formed in cubes, cylinders, and spheres, these and a shoe lace will amuse a tiny tot for hours. Large wooden cubes are splendid because 
 the little unsteady hands can stack them while small ones fall and cause a child to become disagreeable. Blunt scissors, paper and paste with box of non-poisonous paints will bring joy to any child because dolls, wagons, animals, trains, valentines or any other thing wanted can be made by him. Black board and crayonare good: swing in the basement for winter and out in the open air for summer, sand box in the basement for winter, and to these may be added "erector toys"  carpenter's bench and a self id, .U and many other things, as the parents study the needs of their children. Good books are indispensable in every home. Indoor recreation is not all we must consider, as the children grow, the open air calls them and we must go too. When baseball, tennis, croquet and other sports are indulged in it is well for father to match his skill with his sons. The long walks in the fields and woods: the hunting and fishing trips are all of double value if parents and children enjoy them together. Our sons and daughter will enjoy our company if we show them that we are interested in the sport that is fascinating them at any particular age or at any season of the year. The writer is acquainted with a father and mother who accompanied their sons to the highest peak on the mountain just for the joy of all being together. The swimming hole or pool is a place where father and sons should go together, or better if a suitable pool is available the whole family should go. Perhaps we do not swim but we can learn. Groups of boys who go swimming unaccompanied by older people often learn things that are very detrimental to them when, if guided aright, much good would result from the exercise. Our public dances would never have reached their present standard had the parents continued to attend and take part in them. We must keep with our boys and girls as nearly as possible. T realize what many are saying. "We haven't time to do all theirs." If co-operation in the home and on the farm is practiced and all work together, then all share equally in the hours for recreation, much good might be accomplished. QUESTIONS. What is the true meaning of recreation? How can a child, who plays all the time get recreation? Where should children play?' What is the ideal companionship for children's play hours? Suggest other forms of innocent amusement. I low can you interest children, innocently and wisely, on Sunday afternoons? GUIDE LESSONS. 479 We ad this from U. S. Department of Labor, Children's bureau, Washington. CHILDREN'S PLAY A PATRIOTIC CALL. Washington, June 29.  "Public provision for recreation is not a luxury to be cut off but a necessity to be conserved." Miss Julia C. Lathrop, Chief of the Children's Bureau of the U. S. Department of Labor, District in discussing Columbia the report which has on just Facilities for Children's been issued Play in said by the Bureau, the to-day: "An English authority has lately pointed out the demoralization to boys and girls caused by the breaking down of clubs and the withdrawal to the army of recreation leaders, and he has traced much of the increase in juvenile delinquency in England to the chaos in recreation activities which has prevailed since the war. "This is a good time to remind ourselves that the continuance and development of all types of innocent and healthful recreation in every community offer a call to patriotic service for many who can not go to the front. The strain and anxiety which are certain to grow in this country for an indefinite period ahead of us need to be counterbalanced by greater community effort to provide opportunity for wholesome play." Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing,1917-18 The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing will begin its fourteenth year, Monday, September 17, 1917, Fourth floor, Bishop's Building. Term eight months. Two courses will be offered as follows: COURSE I NURSING. This course consists of general instructions in nursing, seven hours and a half per week. It includes in addition, a series of lectures and practical demonstrations in the following subjects: Invalid Cooking, Practical Nursing including First Aid Work, Sterilization, Drugs and Solutions, and Contagious Diseases. These lecture courses are given successfully and cover a period of five hours a week. The Nursing course also includes lectures on Public Health, Prevenpon and Treatment of Diseases, to be given by eminent physicians, surgeons and other specialists. Each student of this course will be required to do at least 20 hours of actual practical nursing during the term, under the direction of the School. Tuitions $25.00 cash and 30 days service charity nursing. Tuition to be paid and contracts to be.signed upon registration. COURSE II OBSTETRICS. This course consists of technical instruction in Obstetrics, seven hours and a half per week. In addition it includes all of the regular and special features of Course I. TuiPon $50.00 cash, and service at five charity obstetrical cases or 30 days' service in charity nursing. For further information  address Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. Utah. I National Junior No.  Pressure Cooker 0 those who expect to conserve fruit and vegetables, we recommend the National Junior No. 1 Pressure Cooker. It serves a fourfold purpose in this, that it conserves waste of fuel, | waste of time, energy and foodstuffs. Either cans or jars may be used. However, we recommend more particularly the use of the fruit jar, as it is much easier to handle. According to Bulletin No. 521, page | 25, we quote PROFESSOR O. | G. BENSON, as saying: "The Steam Pressure Canners are the most successful for canning of all kinds of vegetables and meats, because the greater heat and pressure effect complete sterilization." Professor Benson is authority on the preservation of foodstuffs and is one of the Government employees. We, therefore, accept his statement as authoritative.