The Relief Society Organized by Revelation 'Tuts is a wonderful sight. It is a pleasure to stand before this vast congregation of sisters who are actively engaged in the wonderful work of salvation and in strengthening spiritually the good sisters of the Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith was divinely inspired by the Lord to give to the Church such a_ wonderful organization in which the sisters might find a most important activity, an activity which is not only beneficial to those who are called to take part, but to all who hold membership in the Church. They are in very deed sisters of mercy carrying on one of the great departments of the Church in the spirit of humility and faith, which is indeed commendable and inspired. In the days of Paul's ministry, evidently no such organization had been devised. It appears from the reading of the scriptures that in that day there was no place of importance for the sisters. Paul wrote of this condition and said: Let your women keep silence in the churches: for it is not permitted unto them to speak; but they are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law. President Joseph Fielding Smith of The Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting, Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964) And if they will learn any thing, let them ask their husbands at home: for it is a shame for women to speak in the church (I Cor. 14:34-35). How grateful we ought to be to have the privilege of living in this dispensation when the views have been expanded to be more consistent with divine truth. Moreover, there is a place in the Church in which the wives and mothers can serve. The Relief Society was revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith as a fundamental part of the gospel. Moreover, how grateful we should be for the enlightened age in which we live. The Lord has truly kept his word. Knowledge, according to his prediction, has been increased. The grand opportunity is now before every member of the Church, male and female, to give service and to obtain authority in the building up and advancement of the kingdom of God. All of this is in fulfillment of the prophetic utterances of the prophets of old. The gospel of Jesus Christ is not a system of government, the duties of which are confined solely to those who hold the divine Priesthood. There is a labor for the sisters to per-: form, responsibilities assigned to them which they can carry far more expeditiously than could their husbands who hold the divine authority of Priesthood. Nothing has been overlooked or forgotten in the restoration of the gospel. The Lord has provided ways and means by which every soul may find something to do for the advancement of the kingdom of God. There is no place in the Church for idleness. The hymn, "T Have Work Enough to Do," states this clearly. It was written by Josephine Pollard, and is as follows: I have work enough to do, Ere the sun goes down, For myself and kindred, too, Ere the sun goes down; Every idle whisper stilling With a purpose firm and willing, All my daily tasks fulfilling, Ere the sun goes down. I must speak the loving word, Ere the sun goes down; I must let my voice be heard, Ere the sun goes down; Every cry of pity heeding, For the injured interceding, To the light the lost ones leading, Ere the sun goes down. As I journey on my way, Ere the sun goes down, God's commands I must obey, Ere the sun goes down; There are sins that need confessing; There are wrongs that need redressing, If I would obtain the blessing, Ere the sun goes down. In the restoration of the gospel the Lord did not overlook anything. He says, truthfully, that the "fulness" of the gospel has been revealed. Provisions have been made so that every soul, who will, may find something to do. It appears from the writings of Paul to the members THE RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED BY REVELATION of the Church in Corinth, that in that day there was no place either in civil government or in the Church for activity performed by the sisters of the Church. If they hearkened to the counsel of their husbands, their salvation would be secured. Evidently this was not the thought anciently in Israel, and may have been a condition imposed upon the people in the days of Roman and Greek dominion. We read that in earlier days of Israel women were active and had duties to perform, that there were actually prophetesses among them. Such a noted character was Deborah, who is spoken of as being a prophetess unto whom the people went for counsel, and she became a judge in Israel. It appears in the account of the exodus of Israel from Egypt, that Miriam, sister of Moses and Aaron, who is spoken of as being a prophetess (Exodus 15:20), evidently had been given authority, particularly in relation to the affairs of the women of Israel. Now, in this the greatest dispensation of all, because it is the last, the women of the Church are given some measure of divine authority, particularly in the direction of government and _ instruction in behalf of the women of the Church. The Relief Society is_ well named, for it was organized for the guidance, instruction, and development of the female members. There is no question that the Prophet Joseph Smith was divinely inspired to organize the sisters and give them duties to perform for the benefit and strengthening of the women, spiritually and temporally. Salvation is open to all, both male and female, through the faithful obedience to the principles of salvation. Surely The Church of Jesus Christ would not have been completely organized had not this wonderful organization come into existence. There are so many things that can be performed by the sisters, in nursing, teaching, and giving aid to the sisters in matters spiritually and temporally. This restoration would not have been complete without the Relief Society in which the sisters are able to accomplish a divinely appointed service so essential to the welfare of the Church. May the Lord bless you one and all.