PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME In a recent book on science and religion the author states his belief that there is abroad in the world today a great revival in religion, and that this revival is a challenge to scientists and religious leaders to cooperate in working for the hopes and dreams of mankind. A Challenge to the Church The greatest challenge the Church has today is to proclaim the faith of their fathers in the language of the children of today. And that, I submit to you, is, in one sentence, the challenge that we face in this program of teaching the gospel in the home. I came across an address that President Clark delivered to the conference of the Relief Society sometime ago, in which he said: Thus the Latter-day Saint family, in a Latter-day Saint home, has three great functions to perform. First, — it must bring to its members such lives as will enable them to return to the inner circles of that celestial home from which they came, — a dwelling with the Heavenly Father and Mother throughout' the eternities. Second, — it must so carry out its duties, rights, and functions as to enable it, in turn, to found a celestial home that shall in some eternity hereafter be equal in power, opportunity, and dignity with the celestial home from which we came and to which we shall return. Third, — it must so live its life as to provide for the spirits yet waiting to come to this earth for their fleshly tabernacles, both bodies and minds that shall be healthy, for the spirits coming through them are the choice spirits, which have earned the right by their lives in their first estate, to come for their second estate, to the righteous homes — to the families of greatest worth, promise, and opportunity; and this family must provide for this spirit which it invites to come to its hearthstone, an environment that shall meet the strictest requirements of righteousness (The , , page 808). Now those are powerful observations — three great family functions. Well, perhaps I have said enough and maybe a summary of that is to say something that is a bit delicate and a bit personal, but all of us who go as General Authorities throughout the Church or sit in our offices, are confronted almost constantly with a question. Here is a lovely mother who is struggling against the odds of a faithless husband, or one who will not be active in the Church and will not do anything, and the question of the mother is should she withdraw from that husband and seek a separation with the thought that if they cannot work out a happy home life here, then why try to think of getting into the temple to be sealed for eternity? Now we have had that problem constantly before us. Let me read you something which President Brigham Young said that I think strikes at this thing and gives to you, as leaders, something on which you ought to dwell constantly whenever distraught mothers come to you with any such thoughts as to pull away from the husband because he is not presently giving the attention to the Church that he ought. President Young said: I know you good women get annoyed and provoked and out of patience many times with your husbands; and at times, justly so. They are not always as considerate of you VW as they ought to be; but if they provide for you, they are kind to you, and otherwise treat you right, stay with them. I think it has been taught by some that as we lay our bodies down, they will so rise again in the resurrection with all the impediments and imperfections that they had here; and that if a wife does not love her husband in this state she cannot love him in the next. This is not so. Those who attain to the blessings of the first or celestial resurrection will be pure and holy, and perfect in body. Every man and woman who reaches to this unspeakable attainment will be as beautiful as the angels that surround the throne of God. If you can, by faithfulness in this life, obtain the right to come up in the morning of the resurrection, you need entertain no fears that the wife will be dissatisfied with her husband or the husband with the wife; for those of the first resurrection will be free from sin and from the consequences and power of sin. This body is "sown in corruption, it is raised. In incorruption; it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power; it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body." "And as we have borne the image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly" (Journal of Discourses 10, page 24). Now, let me close with an illustration. Sister Lee and I were back at the time of the Singing Mothers on the East Coast, when they put on that remarkable presentation, as President Tanner told you yesterday, that resulted in a tremendous publicity all over the country. They left hundreds and hundreds of children, with husbands, we hope, to be attended somewhere and cared for while the mothers were gone. There came up at the close of that meeting a lovely singer, who sang one of the solo parts. She had been a convert of only 18 a year or two before, and she had been singing with the Metropolitan Opera Company. But she said she recalled that I had been back to the stake conference where she lived, and we had talked about temple marriage while there, and her husband was a professor in a university back there. Despite all her efforts to try to get him interested he just pulled away, wanted to have nothing to do with it. Furthermore he was urging her to go his way into activities contrary to the standards of the Church. Well, I suppose I had laid a pretty heavy hand on the small percentage of temple marriages, and on those who were not working up towards a sealing in the temple. This sister came up as the conference closed, and asked me, "What am I going to do about it?" She told me just a bit about her home situation, and she reminded me. It shocked me when I heard her say it. (I can think how it shocked her when I said it.) She said, 'You said, in answer to my question 'Well, I don't understand that the Lord ever expected a woman to follow her husband to hell!'"' And so, stiffened by that rather stern and, perhaps a bit crude, perhaps inspired, comment, she thought, "This is ever the time to strike," so she went home to her husband. (He had been in that session, by the way.) She didn't tell us the whole story of what may have happened and what he said back to her. She left that to our imagination, but then, as the tears came rolling down her cheeks, she said, "Today is our PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME fifteenth wedding anniversary, and my husband is being baptized tonight a member of the Church." And he was back there to help, as one of those appointed to take care of all the physical arrangements for the Singing Mothers as they arranged themselves for that great concert. It is that kind of salvation which maybe some faithful wife will have to help her husband one day to achieve. Remember what the apostle Paul said, "The unbelieving husband is sanctified by the believing wife." Now, I am not talking of a husband who is unfaithful to the point of endangering his wife's health, immoral, and probably has almost deprived himself of the right of life itself, but I am talking merely of one who presently seems to show no interest, or has his mind presently upon worldly things. If we will do our part as mothers, wives, with patience and prayer, and with the power of the Priesthood now concentrated, as we hope it will be, we may hope in the years that lie ahead to see a tremendous resurrection of interest, unity, faith, and the strengthening of the Latter-day Saint homes of this people. Now, dear, sisters, you must give leadership to this. It will not go unless the mothers take the initiative in many homes. Put father in his place and urge him to take that place, and help him to be the teacher and leader that the Lord expects fathers to be, as holders of the Priesthood. So I leave you my blessing this afternoon, again expressing my great delight at what I heard of the general session. How proud I was to hear your President, Sister Spafford, and these wonderful counselors. I think the word "great" is not an exaggeration — to say these are great women who are leading you, loyal, devoted, untiring, faithful. Sister Spafford has attained a world-wide stature. When she goes to foreign lands, she is well known to women's groups everywhere. She has addressed them on many occasions. She will leave this conference shortly to go to one similar conference back East. She has earned her place because she has maintained her standards and she has taught the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am grateful to be here in the presence of Brother Romney. I think his talk to you yesterday was one of the finest expressions on one of the great needs of developing an awareness of the Spirit and how we must strive to get that Spirit and keep it. I think that is something that ought to be printed and reprinted and read and re-read, as Brother Romney has given it to you yesterday. May I say, parenthetically, that the loyalty that brought him from a long meeting to sit through this hour, that may not have been, shall I say, too engaging, indicates the kind of loyalty and strength that I have always felt in Elder Marion G. Romney, than whom I have never known a more loyal, a more faithful, and a more dear companion in the earnest work that belongs to the kingdom of God. I commend what has been said and done and commend you to the further responsibilities that this new program will place squarely upon you as leaders. You must teach it now to those who work under your direction, and don't just let this go for your instruction; but for you to see that those who work under you are given instructions. I bear you my testimony that this has come, as all such instructions do come, by the inspiration, revelations of the Lord to this people in this day — to concentrate the forces of the kingdom to combat the evils and the insurmountable problems that are coming upon homes, which can _ only be stemmed as we teach our children the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so I bear humble testimony and leave you my blessing in the name of Jesus Christ.