Venda Brown Castleberry FIRST PRIZE-WINNING STORY Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest I was bringing grandpa home to live with us, and I hadn't even talked it over with Jim. Grandpa was asleep on the back seat now, as the tires whispered on the highway, unraveling it around gently rising hills and spinning it out in a gray-black ribbon up the valley behind. Asleep. Like a child, I thought, trusting the dangers of the road to another's hands. At the beginning we trust so much, we need so much. Calves, lambs, babies — all knowing that if they call for help there is something — an inborn something — in another that will answer their need. But at the end — why is there no answer? "Come on," I. Said _ aloud, switching on the radio, ''what is there about driving on a long road that brings out the philosopher in me? As Jim would say, 'My feet just don't fit on a limb.' " I wished that a_ telephone booth — a real one — would pop up in one of the heat mirages that made shimmering lakes in the road ahead. I needed to hear Jim's voice. After fifteen years of marriage, the tone of a voice tells a lot. It would tell me how Jim felt about Grandpa coming to us. I had tried to call, but, of course, Jim, children, everyone had been in the hay field. A telegram that the operator would call to the ranch had been the best I could do. "Listen, Hon," Jim said, after he had read Aunt Liz's letter, "why don't you get in the car and drive on down? She's right, you know, some of us should be there, and your Mom being in the hospital and all. I wish I could be with you!" But the hay was down, and we all scanned the sky each morn- 27 ing, hoping we could get the winter's supply of feed up before rain turned it to a musty, black waste. And Jim was the one who led the haying crew, early to late. My hands were sweaty and achy; I had gripped the steering wheel hard, thinking of the family meeting called to decide 'what to do about Grandpa." * * K T uty 'were all waiting when I got there, in the living room of the old house, with Grandpa on the other side of the sliding doors, waiting like the accused while the jury is out deliberating. "He simply cannot stay alone any longer," Aunt Liz had said, "it's a disgrace to the family, that's what it is! The things he does — people are starting to say he's — he's — well, funny. He 28 won't use the new range we got him — insists on building a fire in that old wood stove out in the cabin to roast those awful old potatoes, which he ~ certainly shouldn't eat at his age, half done and all. And he forgets — and with the fire and all." My cousin Claire broke in. "Sister Moss says she offered to do up his shirts and take his suit to the cleaners, but he told her his wife always sees to it that the family's clothes are ready for Sunday. That old suit — we tried to get him to buy a new one, but he wouldn't. And _ those awful old wide silk ties — spots of food spilled all over." Claire moved closer to Dick, there on the old leather lounge, and put her hand on his knee. "We took Dick's grandma to Resthaven the other day. It's as Dick says, they like to be with other old people. When there are little ones around you camt " Aunt Lucy couldn't wait to get in her two cents' worth. "You remember when we took him over Easter? Well, it didn't work out at all." Uncle Burt nodded his head up and down to reinforce his wife's words. As if he's about to shout Hallelujah and amen, I had thought. Aunt Lucy went on, 'When there're young people dating and all — so embarrassing. One night Ellie came home with her beau, and they were sitting out in the car and Father went out — in his nightgown, mind you — and told Ellie to come in the house. Burt and I weren't even home — and a mercy, probably, too, or I'm afraid there'd have been words! He acts as if he can't hear, but if you notice, he can hear what he wants to — like Ellie's beau's car that night. I tell you, there's no house big enough for three generations!"' My Uncle Charles took his cue here. He built houses for a living. "That's just it," he said, "with these planned homes the way they are, there's no place to put extra people. They're built for a certain sized family, and that's it. Why, a family just about has to move when there's a new baby! Sure don't know where we'd put Papa — and I know youv're all in the same boat." While he was talking I had looked through the window at the log cabin just outside the yard fence. Just HEART ROOM "It's so small!' I had said to Grandpa once, after I had first been away to college, "how did you ever raise eight children in there?" Grandpa had stooped to pull up a pigweed near the old wooden step, straightened to look over the hand-niched logs, graybleached by weather and time. I watched his face and knew this was going to be a serious answer. "Yes, it does seem little, don't it though, out here by the big one. But it never did seem little or big or any size to Diana and me, those years. It was our home, and it just naturally stretched to cover us all — first Diana and me, and then her mother was widowed and she came to us. "The babies came along — I don't remember ever wondering if there was room — our. Home just took them in, and they had their share, just like your heart takes them all in — without getting one whit bigger in actual size." Grandpa had twisted a cobweb that hung from the doorway around his finger. "T can just see Diana spreading out quilts on the floor to make an extra bed, the company all the time saying that it was too much trouble, and they really ought to go on. She'd give the quilt a flip to straighten it out and say, 'Don't say another thing about it now! Where there's heart room, there's always house room!' "' * Ke OK * I turned for a quick look in the back seat now. Such a slight figure, really, not nearly covering the seat. He had given me so much. What had I been doing these years that I hadn't seen him change from the Grandpa of my needful years, to this Grandpa who had run out of giving, and who had today been judged for his crime? "Oh, Jim, I couldn't listen any more," I whispered aloud, ''and now you and the kids are involved, and it wasn't right not to talk it over with you, but, Jim, what if it had been you, with a roomful of people talking as if you were some old thing — like — like a furnace or something that they had to do something about? They don't remember, Jim, they just don't want to remember!"' kK K There had been more uncomfortable excuses. There had been more reinforcing looks between spouses. Suddenly my voice was speaking, and I wondered who had turned it on. "If you all don't care, I'd like to take Grandpa home with me. The last thing Jim said to me was 'bring him home with you if he'll come.' " They were relieved. They tried to object a little, to warn me. But they were relieved. "You don't know what you're getting into," Claire had _ said. "He's cross with children now. He just wants to sit. I don't know how — food all over when he eats — they get so slovenly — you won't dare have anyone im " Uncle Charles said, "Maybe we could build him a little place on the back of your house, so's he'd be kind of away from the family." Aunt Lucy was the speakingout one. She said, "I tell you, he doesn't care where he is — why should he when he can't hear 30 thunder — or at least acts like he can't — lives in the past, and when he does join in talking that's all he'll talk about. I still think a good rest home." I hadn't felt angry. I knew they were all truthful in what they said. But, I had felt sick, sort of, the way you do when a child is abused — as if in not protecting the helpless, the family — and the whole world — were somehow losing their dignity. * eK K OF THE sun sank behind the hills to the right, its reflected light turning them into purple-black, cardboard shapes, with a black fringe of pines outlining their curves against the mauve sky I turned the headlights on. It was as if their beam pulled the car along through darkness. There were just Grandpa and I. The hum of the motor and the whisper of the tires powered a_ time-machine that hurtled us backward, and we were once again a little girl and her Grandpa — in the needing and the giving years. Grandpa had always made me feel as if I were his favorite in all the world. Cherished and loved. In a world where grownups were often unpredictable, he was always the same, my security and my refuge. Mother might be cross, father punish unjustly, brother might run away and hide from me, but Grandpa was there to make me feel loved and accepted again. We had a little game. When I would cry, he would say, "Come here and let me count your ribs." We both knew that I was too ticklish to let him count past the third one! By that time I was giggling and squirming — my reason for crying forgotten. The healing was complete when I was on his lap, my ear over the ticking watch in his overalls pocket. I loved the way Grandpa looked. His hair was auburn, with a suggestion of gray, thick and curly. His eyes were a lively brown under bushy red eyebrows. His mustache drooped down, cut short so that you could see the crinkles at the corners of his mouth. I could always tell if Grandpa was going to speak seriously or jokingly, just by watching those crinkles. He was so clean! It was an ever-living wonder to me that he washed his hair and mustache every time he washed his face! Such splashing and blowing noises he would make as he bent over the low washbench in a corner of the kitchen. First a good lather, then a rinse with many dippersful of cold water from the pail nearby. The comb was in the oilcloth wall pocket above the washbench, under the mirror. Grandpa would flex his knees a bit as he scrunched to look into the mirror. He would part his mustache, comb it carefully, and then comb his hair until it lay in crisp waves. SometTiMes Grandpa and I would get to stay home alone all day — just the two of us. We would have baked potatoes for lunch, crispy on the outside, with golden butter melting into their fluffy insides — and plenty of salt and pepper. Grandpa would brew "peppermint tea' for us, and add lots of sugar and milk. Sipping this from a china cup with a grownup saucer under it was living! The first time my brother and HEART ROOM I were to be left alone for the evening, I felt utterly deserted. When I heard the crunch of the buggy wheels outside, and knew everybody — even Grandpa — was gone, I wailed like a Banshee. "Don't cry, Sis,' my brother said, to comfort me, "Grandpa's in the other room." Well, if Grandpa was there, the world was right-side-up again. I went to sleep. It was many years later that we learned that Grandpa was in the other room. The sight of my woebegone face was too much for him; he stayed to listen, to see how I got along! The gifts Grandpa gave me were right from one heart to another. There were always hard, round peppermint candies in his inside coat pocket when he came. One night he opened his coat as if to invite me to have some candy, and there I touched a coalblack puppy, his eyes shining from his dark, warm hiding place. Such a surge of love and _ protectiveness I felt, as I snuggled his cold, wet little nose down to my neck! Grandpa was never too busy to go for a walk with me. I would put my hand in his and away we'd go, skirting the barnyard, crossing two canals on wobbly plank bridges, running the last little way to the orchard fence. This was adventure to a fouryear-old! Sometimes Grandpa would hand his hat to me, and up a tree he'd go, and down again, with birds' eggs to show me. If there was a robin's egg, he would hold it up to my face and tell me it was just the color of my eyes. I learned from Grandpa how sad Mrs. Bird would be if she came home and found even one egg missing. We must put them all back, and not handle them very much. If there were babies in the nest, we would sit down under the tree and be very quiet, in hopes that Mrs. Bird would heed her babies' discordant ''peep-peeps" and come to feed them. When she did, we would watch them stretch their bare, wrinkled necks up above the edge of the nest, their mouths wide open to take the squirming worms Mrs. Bird dropped in. One day we watched the devotion of a mother bird — her patience — as she taught her newly feathered fledglings to fly. One day we saw Trixie the cat kill a bird. Grandpa talked to me about it, gently. Trixie was not cruel; she was doing what Heavenly Father expected her to do. He had given her rules to obey, too, but what was wrong for us was not always wrong for animals. THERE must have been times when I tried his patience, but I had no memory of a cross word from my Grandpa. There must have been times when he was tired — when his own affairs weighed heavily upon him, but I found him always ready with the comfort, the support, the protection I needed. By the gift of his utter love and absolute devotion Grandpa had given me an unforgettable memory of warm security. His was the kind of love that every child should have from someone, sometime. A sudden wrench of the steering wheel startled me. I had turned off the highway into the loose gravel of our ranch road. Under the gateway with the 32 tangle of deer antlers across the top, and our brand burned at crazy angles all over the bleached gray poles; off the gravel and onto the dusty road that led to the yard fence. The lights were on all over the house. The living room curtains moved. The yard light went on, and the porch light. I prayed a quick prayer as I stopped the car, "Oh, Jim, it's for the little girl with her hand in her Grandpa's — but for you and me, too — when we're old and funny." I was out and around the car. Jim was through the litile gate. So big, so alive, so shiny clean, with comb marks in his damp hair! But I had to feel him, hear him, to know if it was all right. We kissed, hard, and then looked at each other for a long moment, there by the car, with Grandpa inside. "T tried to call. " I said. Jim said, "I know. Elsie told me when she phoned out the message. You didn't need to, you know." My face started to crumple up. I felt it start in my knees and spread all over me. When I felt my face breaking up, I put my hands over it, pushing hard. Jim took my hands down, and I could feel his hands over my ears — holding the hair out and away from my head, while he kissed my forehead, down to my nose, and then my salty lips. "Baby, it's all right. It's all right. After you left I kicked myself for not telling you to bring him home with you. I figured vou'd have a rough time — I should have gone." I was feeling for a handkerchief. Jim handed me a clean folded one from his back pocket. "There will be times when we " I said, but Jim had turned to open the back car door. HEART ROOM me help you. It's been a long trip for an old-timer like you. You must be tired plumb out." There was no reproach in his voice — for either Grandpa or me. "Grandpa!" he was saying, "I thought you'd never get here. Let Venda Brown Castleberry moved from Cave Junction, Oregon, to Provo, Utah, three years ago, to enroll as a Freshman at Brigham Young University, after being out of high school for thirty-one years. ''Next May | shall receive a Bachelor of Arts Degree, and be certified to teach high school English. The delayed university experience has been most challenging and rewarding! "| have a son, Lloyd V. And a daughter, Mrs. Herbert (Charline) Mote, who have given me a total of ten grandchildren. "Naturally gravitating to the creative writing group on the campus, | have had stories published in the Universe and in the Wye Magazine, of which | was short story editor last year. Last April | placed third in the Vera Hinckley Mayhew Short Story Contest.. "When | was a child, | moved with my family and eight other families from Idaho to Montana to establish the first colony of Latter-day Saints in that area. Currently, | am writing a book about these pioneers of the 1920's."