The 1965 March of Dimes campaign which opens January 2 is dedicated to the fight against birth defects. Each year more than 250,000 of our children are born with serious birth defects. In numbers alone, the problem of birth defects is much greater than polio ever was. More complex, too, since birth defects have many causes and take many forms.. Even so, research can lead us toward prevention of many of these defects. Highest quality medical care can often help children already born, crippled in mind and body. The success of the work of The National Foundation March of Dimes has always depended on a partnership between the public and scientists. Scientists in many laboratories and hospitals are seeking the diverse and elusive causes of birth defects. What's more, the public is growing more concerned about this problem. One in every ten American families experiences the suffering caused by the birth of a seriously defective child. So many of these babies die. So many are disfigured or crippled for life. So many are clouded in mind. This is a tragedy. It must be stopped. You can help by giving\ to the March of Dimes to support research and treatment. FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS — JOIN THE MARCH OF DIMES 36 Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, President of the American Mothers Committee, is sponsoring the organization of Young Mothers Councils in many cities of the United States. In Salt Lake City, Utah, in October, Mrs. Lewis declared: ''Today's mother cannot cope with her young children's discipline problems because she herself likely has had little or. No discipline shown her. Parental delinquency is at the root of this trouble. Youths need spiritual training, concepts of conformity to law — within and without the family.'' While in Salt Lake City, Mrs. Lewis called on Relief Society General President Belle S. Spafford, a close friend, and was taken on a tour of the Relief Society building. Mrs. Carma Noble, Hurricane, Utah, mother of seven children, is the leader of a remarkable beautification effort which has attracted national attention to Hurricane and has given that city of 1400 population several outstanding State awards. Mrs. Noble, in cooperation with the City Beautification Club which she organized, has supervised the planting of 450 trees, the painting of fifty houses and commercial buildings, the tearing down of 88 barns, corrals, sheds, and chicken coops, the hauling away of several dozen old car bodies, the placing of litter cans on streets, and the paving of forty blocks of streets. All but two families in Hurricane cooperated on these projects. Mrs. Jean Scott, mother of four, from Lincoln, England, administrative nead of all social work done by the Women's Voluntary Service in Lincoln, while touring the United States and visiting many welfare programs, was a guest of the General Board of Relief Society in October. She met with the First Presidency of the Church, visited Welfare Square and many production and distribution centers under Church management. Mrs. Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin, a teacher at Oxford University, England, won the 1964 Nobel Prize in chemistry. She is the first woman to receive this coveted award since Madame Marie Curie in 1911. Her contribution to science is an X-ray technique for photographing such mysteries as the molecular structure of chemicals. Cathy Ferguson, a sixteen-year-old high school girl from Burbank, California, won one of the United States' thirty-six gold medals in the Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, in late October. Hers was for swimming in the 100-meter backstroke event, setting a world's record of one minute, seven and nine-tenths seconds. The only other American girl to win a gold medal was Lesley Bush, of Princeton, New Jersey, for her high dive. Three Russian women won gold medals and Vera Caslavaska of Czechoslovakia won three gold medals in the women's gymnastic events.