VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 63 — "For They Shall Be Judged According to Their Works, and Every Man Shall Receive According to His Own Works..." (D&E 76:111). For First Meeting, Objective: To be counted worthy and to receive the commendation of the Lord, our lives must be filled with fruitful actions. One of the most clearly established facts outlined in the scriptures is that men shall be judged by their works. Both ancient and modern scriptures are replete 64 with statements supporting this fact. The Savior in his parables and in his sermons frequently stressed the importance of performing good works. He said, "'Ye shall know them by their fruits" (Matt. 7:16), and emphasized the fact that, '""Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father " (Matt. 7:21). Also, "Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock" (Matt. 7:24). The apostle James admonishes us, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves" (James 1:22). The prophet Nephi said that the day should come "that they must be judged of their works, yea, even the works which were done by the temporal body..." (1 Nephi 15:32). The great King Benjamin instructed his people to believe in God and in his wisdom and power both in heaven and on earth, and warned them, "now, if you believe all these things see that ye do them"' (Mosiah 4:10). This standard of ''works" is one which has become a measure of an individual's worth, not only in religious matters but also in his attainments in every field of activity. We are judged by the skills we develop and apply, by our accomplishments, our attitudes, and by the extent and application of our wisdom. A great pianist, amidst thunderous applause, had just finished his masterful rendition of an extremely difficult concerto. After the performance one of his admirers approached him saying, "My, how wonderful! I would LESSON DEPARTMENT give my life to play as you do." To which the Maestro replied, "Madam, so far that is exactly what I have given." Regardless of the extent of our abilities, unless we work and develop them, we will never gain the highest achievement which we may obtain. In this great Church of the Lord's we shall not be entitled to the love and respect of our friends and neighbors nor the blessings from our Father in heaven simply because of our knowledge or gospel scholarship. Although knowledge and scholarship are important, they are useful only to the extent to which they are put to work in action in our lives. In this message from the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord said, that "every man shall receive according to his own works." This means that we cannot expect to lean on someone else's abilities or upon another's testimony. We must work diligently and develop our own. We must have the courage and the wisdom to be ourselves and to rely on ourselves. In the final analysis this is the only basis upon which we shall be judged. Someone has aptly said that no one can develop his muscles by sending his servant to the gymnasium. In a like manner our Father in heaven will not recognize a proxy statement when we present ourselves before him. Only if our own works so justify will we hear that blessed welcome, "'Well done, thou good and faithful servant... Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord" (Matt. 25:21). 99