LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 7 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part III For Third Meeting, Objective: To show how literature exposes the waste of self-righteousness and hypocrisy, and affirms the worth of genuine righteousness and sincerity. Tue lesson for this month is closely related in purpose to the one for last month. Again we explore several significant selections to see how literature exposes evil and defends goodness. However, whereas last month we studied four short stories, this month we examine five poems; and whereas last month the focus was on selfishness in relation to unselfishness, this month the focus is on self-righteousness and hypocrisy in relation to genuine righteousness and sincerity. Obviously these are very broad subjects. Thousands of works, great and small, have touched upon them, and the five short selections we are examining are mere samples. But they need no apology, for they are strong and excellent poems. Seven times, as recorded in the twenty-third chapter of St. Matthew, Jesus denounced the selfrighteous piety of the scribes and Pharisees with these words: ''Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!'"' Nothing in literature is more stinging than the repeated lash of these phrases. But literature, too, has been unsparing of the religious hypocrite who hides his evil underneath a cloak of self-righteous deceit. One of the most forthright in exposing self-righteous hypocrisy and in defending genuine righteousness and sincerity was the English poet Robert Browning (1812-1889),' whose "Johannes Agricola in Meditation" and "Sohiloquy of the Spanish Cloister'' are unforgettable portraits of evil men disguised as righteous men. Space will permit us to print only one of these poems here. Johannes Agricola in Meditation There's heaven above, and night by night I look right through its gorgeous roof; No suns and moons though e'er so bright Avail to stop me; splendor-proof I keep the broods of stars aloof. For I intend to get to God, For 'tis to God I speed so fast, For in God's breast, my own abode, Those shoals of dazzling glory, passed, I lay my spirit down at last. I lie where I have always lain, God smiles as he has always smiled; Ere suns and moons could wax and wane, Ere stars were thundergirt, or piled - 70 The heavens, God thought on me his child; Ordained a life for me, arrayed Its circumstances every one To the minutest; aye, God said This head this hand should rest upon Thus, ere he fashioned star or sun. And having thus created me, Thus rooted me, he bade me grow, Guiltless forever, like a tree That buds and blooms, nor seeks to know The law by which it prospers so. But sure that thought and word and deed All go to swell his love for me, Me, made because that love had need Of something irreversibly Pledged solely its content to be. Yes, yes, a tree which must ascend, No poison-gourd foredoomed to stoop! I have God's warrant, could I blend All hideous sins, as in a cup, To drink the mingled venoms up; Secure my nature will convert The draft to blossoming gladness fast; While sweet dews turn to the gourd's hurt, And bloat, and while they bloat it, blast, As from the first its lot was cast. For as I lie, smiled on, full-fed By unexhausted power to bless, I gaze below on hell's fierce bed, And those its waves of flame oppress, Swarming in ghastly wretchedness; Whose life on earth aspired to be One altar-smoke, so pure!— to win If not like God's love for me, At least to keep his anger in; And all their striving turned to sin. Priest, doctor, hermit, monk grown white With prayer, the brokenhearted nun, The martyr, the wan acolyte, The incense-swinging child— undone Before God fashioned star or sun! God, whom I praise; how could I praise, If such as I might understand, Make out and reckon on his ways, And bargain for his love, and stand, Paying a price, at his right hand? Comments on."Johannes Agricola in: Meditation." Johannes Agricola was a German reformer of' the 16th century who headed a religious sect which held that faith only is necessary to salvation; morality' and good works, according to this group, do not aid one towards salvation. God chooses to save some and damn others, and people can do nothing to alter the will of God. Those who are saved are saved, and those who are damned _ are damned, irrespective of how good or bad the people may live. As the leader of this sect, Johannes holds an extreme position. In his monstrous conceit he. Believes that God has planned every minutest detail of his life and predestined him to_ salvation, "suiltless forever." So self-righteous is Johannes that. He thinks all vices (all "hideous sins') become virtues when performed by him, and all virtues are a waste of time when performed by others: The poem should be read not merely as an individual portrait of Johannes Agricola but as a satire against. Pride and selfrighteousness wherever they may be found. Browning believed just as strongly as do members of The Church of Jesus Christ of LatterLESSON DEPARTMENT day Saints that faith without works is dead and that an individual has the _ responsibility through an exercise of will power to work out his own salvation. He. Also believed, as do Latter-day Saints, that through faith and righteousness we can: know God. " Johannes rationalized that we can no more know God than we can "'bargain for his love." To understand Browning's own religious philosophy, all we need do is turn Johannes's beliefs upside down. As an ironic satire, this poem exposes the exact opposite of what Browning—and Latter-day Saint readers—recognize as the true principles of Christianity. Comment on "Soliloquy. Of. The Spanish Cloister."' Even better as poetry and as satire than."Johnnes Agricola" is. Browning's "'Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister."' This brilliant short poem is as vivid a portrait of self-righteousness, hypocrisy, lust, hate, and just downright meanness as Browning or any other poet ever composed. It describes everything that Browning detested in religious attitude and surface ritualism and, by implication, suggests his admiration for sincerity, honesty, brotherly love; simplicity, and just plain goodness. Unfortunately, however, space does not permit including this poem and a discussion of it in this lesson. Therefore, it will need to be studied in the literature text, where it is included in full. Comments on Two Poems by Robert Burns. Greatest of the Scottish poets and, if one can judge by the frequency of refer- ences to him, possibly President David O. McKay's favorite poet is Robert Burns (1759-1796). Although his personal life was rather loose and undisciplined, Burns in his poetry was an idealist with strong faith in the goodness of God and the potential goodness of man. He triumphs as a great poet in two kinds of poems especially—first, beautiful lyrics of love and friendship; and second, delightful satires attractively mixing humor with stinging criticism. He also wrote some very good narrative poems, but he is at his best in songs and satires. He is also at his best in the Scottish dialect that was his native tongue. For fuller comments on Burns and his poems than space permits here, and for a full printing of the two poems discussed here, see the Relief Society literature text. The two poems selected for special attention in this lesson are '""A Man's a Man for A' That" and "Address to the Unco Guid or the Rigidly Righteous,' and both are particularly concerned with good and bad attitudes, especially religious attitudes. The shorter of the two is ""A-Man's a Man for A' That," printed almost in full below: Is there for honest poverty, That hangs his head, an' a' that? The coward salve, we pass him by— We dare be poor for a' that! For a' that, an' a' that, Our toils obscure, an' a' that, The rank is but the guinea's stamp; The man's the gowd' for a' that. What though on hamely fare we dine, Wear hoddin grey' an' a' that? Gie fools their silks, and knaves their wine— A man's a man for a' that! For a' that, an' a' that, Their tinsel show, an' a' that, The honest man, tho' e'er sae poor, Is king o' men for a' that. Ye see yon birkie,' ca'd a lord, Wha struts, an' stares, an' a' that? Tho' hundreds worship at his word He's but a cuif* for a' that: For a' that, an' a' that, His ribband, star, an' a' that, The man o' independent mind, He looks an' laughs at a' that. Then let us pray that come it may, As come it will for a' that, That Sense and Worth, o'er a' the earth, Shall bear the gree5 an' a' that; For a' that, an' a' that, It's comin yet for a' that, That man to man, the world o'er, Shall brithers be for a' that! This is a positive poem. In it Burns proclaims the dignity of common man and _ denounces whatever pretenses or artificialities destroy his dignity. Honesty, independence of mind, the brotherhood of man—these are the things that matter. Costly clothes, social position, fancy titles—these are mere decorations that hide what is genuine. "The honest man, however so poor, is king of man" is the central idea of this poem. "Address to the Unco Guid or the Rigidly Righteous" will need to be read in the literature text because it is too long to be printed here. All that we can here do is summarize the poem. It is a satire, humorous yet serious, addressed by Burns to those people who regard themselves as very good, very pious, very holy and who spend their time talking about their neighbor's faults and follies. I should like to speak, says Burns, in defense of all the poor mortals who often act unwisely and make mistakes. You look at them, he continues, and shudder at how weak and sinful they are compared with your strength and purity. But is the difference that great? Are you flawless—or just better at hiding? Also, you may now be grown up and beyond the temptations that "galloped" in your veins when you were young, but have you forgotten? Besides, maybe you're not any temptation. Therefore, look gently on men, and even more gently on women. Although they may do a little wrong, do not condemn them. Above all, consider not merely what they have done but why. God alone has the power to look into a human heart to judge actions and motives and regrets. He alone knows not only what one has done and why but what one has resisted doing and why. Man's responsibility is to forgive; only God, and his specially appointed representatives, have authority to judge. All of this is what ''Address to the Unco Guid" says. But the poem is better than the paraphrase, as poems always are. Comment on "Abou Ben Adhem." As a brief final selection focusing on the central subject of this lesson, we include Leigh Hunt's little poem "Abou Ben Adhem."' Although not one of the great writers, Hunt (1784-1859) is an important second-level English peet and critic of the Romantic Age. This famous short LESSON DEPARTMENT poem, stressing the importance of unselfish brotherly love, is simple in wording and openly clear in message: \ Abou Ben Adhem, may his tribe increase! Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace, And saw, within the moonlight in his room, Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom, An angel writing in a book of gold: — Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold, And to the presence in the room he said, "What writest thou?"—The vision raised its head, And with a look made of all sweet accord, Answered, "The names of those who love the Lord." "And is mine one?" said Abou. "Nay, not so," Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low, But cheerly still; and said, "I pray thee then, Write me as one that loves his fellow-men."' The angel wrote, and vanished. The next night It came again with a great wakening light, And showed the names whom love of God had blessed, And lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest. THOUGHTS AND QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Identify as extensively and specifically as possible the various sins of attitude and behavior exposed by Browning and Burns in "Johannes Agricola in Mediation," 'Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister,' "A Man's a Man for A' That," and "Address to the Unco Guid or the Rigidly Righteous."' 2. Then identify as extensively and specifically as possible the good quali- ties and attitudes recommended by Browning and Burns in these four poems. 3. How do satire and. Irony help in. These poems to expose evil and advocate goodness? 4 4. Near the end of the lesson a prose paragraph of "Address to the Unco Guid or the Rigidly Righteous" is given. Then the comment is made, "But the poem is better than the paraphrase, as poems always are." Why is a poem better than a paraphrase of it? What does the paraphrase miss? 5. Probably experienced readers of literature will generally feel that of the five poems covered by this lesson, the most brilliant and best is Browning's "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister." What qualities make this a better and more brilliant. Poem than the other four? 'For more extensive comments on Browning's life and writing, see Lesson Four in the October Relief Society. Magazine. And for even more extensive comments, see the literature text; which contains contrasting portraits by Browning of two thoroughly sincere and good men in "