The Bereft at Castle Gate Since our last issue, a terrible catastrophe has overtaken the State of Utah depriving mothers of sons, wives of husbands, and children of fathers and brothers. We deeply sympathize with those who are bereft and trust that the time is not far distant when such accidents will be made impossible. For those who have passed, unstinted gratitude; they are the heroes of the humble walks of life, the men who daily and hourly risk their lives that you and I may live in comfort, protected from cold and with ample provision for cooking our food. No one can ever go into a coal mine without being stirred with a feeling of gratitude for these men, who, cut off from sunlight, give their work and their lives for the comfort of others. Of their sacrifice it is not possible to say enough, they have gone to that realm where a just God knows how to evaluate their service and how to reward them for all their labor. We pray that the consoling influences of our heavenly Father's Spirit may give support to the bereft. We submit the following poem from the pen of Lula Greene Richards, trusting that from it the bereaved will receive some measure of comfort: TO HEARTS BEREFT No flower so fair but it may fade and die? No star so bright it may not sink to rest? Nor gift so precious from the world on high It cannot pass from those who love it best. Look up, dear ones bereft?renew your trust, Confess God's loving hand and comfort find? Think of that heavenly Friend as true and just? Too wise to err?too good to be unkind! Think of the loved one taken from our sight, Living forever where His glories shine? Free from the storms of winter?gloom of night, And say, "O Lord, thy will be done?not mine!" Arise and help to conquer grief and sin Making life's purpose better understood. Unbar your souls and let love's sunshine in? We cannot give without receiving good. The joy of giving cheer to self imparts? Pain is of earth, but peace is from above. Find blessings for your own and other hearts, In looks and words and deeds of Christ-like love. Let tis love more our dear ones who are left, And prize more highly blessings of today, And that loved one of whom we are bereft, Will smile with us and seem not far away. ?