The Rise Of The Women's Auxiliaries Clarissa A. Beesley Member of the Y. W. M. I. A. General Board T the commencement of any great movement there are found inspired souls who dream dreams of mighty accomplishments. Their faith and courage never falter; step by step they go for-. Ward. We can well believe that in the early days of the Church, men, and women too, had visions of the Zion that was to be. Those who had heard the Prophet Joseph predict that the Saints should become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains must have caught his spirit and in hope looked forward to that day. The Prophet knew that women, as well as men, would play an important part in building the structure on the foundation he had laid, and therefore we are not surprised that, under the inspiration of the Lord, he organized the Relief Society on that memorable March 17, 1842. We can imagine that with prophetic eye he looked through the years, beholding the hosts of noble women performing their mission of mercy, bringing comfort and peace | to thousands, teaching and guiding the mothers of Israel, becoming a bulwark to the Church. He and others were dreaming, too, of the needs and opportunities of youth, for there was organized in Nauvoo, during the winter of 1843, a group which might well be called the forerunner of the Mutual Improvement organizations. We read: One evening, in the latter part of January last, a few young people having assembled at the house of Heber C. Kimball, the follies of youth and the temptations to which they are exposed generally, but more especially in our city, became the topic of conversation. The company were lamenting the frivolous manner in which they spent their time, and their too frequent attendance at balls, parties, etc. Then Elder Kimball proposed that an appointment should be given out expressly for the young ladies and gentlemen, and he would give them special instruction and advice which the spirit of the Lord might suggest to him, which if followed would doubtless lead to a reformation in the conduct of his young friends. The proposition was received with delight and acted upon with alacrity.... A number of young people assembled at the house of Elder Billings where Elder Kimball addressed them for some time upon the duties of children to their parents, to society, and to their God; exhorting them to lay aside their vanity, light mindedness, pride, and frivolity, and endeavor to show themselves worthy of the religion which they had embraced. The address was so well received that it was voted, almost by acclamation, to hold a similar meeting the following week. Decided to meet in Brother Farr's schoolroom as Elder Billings' house was too small. Then follows an account of several meetings held in succession, at each of which Elder Kimball spoke to the young people in "that simple, plain, and affectionate manner which goes directly to the heart." At the fifth meeting, President Smith was present and appears to have been deeply moved by the number in attendance, and also by their attitude, Since he had organized the PAGE 171] 172 FIRST PRESIDENTS OF THE. CENTRAL ?MARCH, 1942 eo (GENERAL) BOARDS OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES Left to right: Louie B. Felt, Primary Association; Eliza R. Snow, Relief Society; Elmina S. Taylor, Y. L. M. I. A. Female Relief Society in the spring of 1842, no doubt the subject of charity and benevolence was still upon his mind, for he advised these young people to assist the needy and unfortunate. He gave them as an immediate project the case of a brother who was lame and without a home. At first the young men met alone to formulate a plan to carry out this and other relief work, but it was soon decided to ask the young ladies to join them. They therefore organized under the name of "Young Gentlemen and Ladies Relief Society of Nauvoo." "This society met on the last Tuesday in each month at 6:00 91 p. M. Thus the older women and the young girls were brought into active participation in the work of the Church. We have no historical account of any organization of children, but "Aunt" Emmeline B. *Times and Seasons, Vol. IV, p. 154. Wells always insisted that there were a few children's meetings held in Nauvoo, conducted by some of the sisters. HE dream of auxiliary work, and particularly the part women were to play in it, persisted after the entrance into the valleys of the mountains, but the tasks of those beginning years in Utah were so strenuous that a period of time elapsed before efforts were made toward a realization of this dream. As early as 1853, however, a group of pioneer women, no doubt with the memory of their beloved Nauvoo Society still fresh in their minds, met in the Social Hall, Salt Lake City, to organize themselves into a unit for women's work. Other organizations soon followed in the various wards of the city, evidently with the full encouragement of the authorities of the Church, for in 1866 we find Eliza R. Snow, that woman of THE RISE OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES inspired mind and soul, appointed by President Brigham Young to assist the bishops in organizing ward and branch Relief Societies throughout the Church, a work which she continued until the end of her life in 1887. Then in 1869 came the retrenchment movement, in which both the older and the younger women were to be so vitally concerned. President Young had noted in his travels among the people that they were vying with each other in the matter of entertainment as well as in dress. Often the women were kept from their meetings in order to make preparations for meals. This troubled him and, meeting M. Isabella Horne, another pioneer woman of outstanding character, while she was visiting in Gunnison, he said to her: Sister Horne, I am going to give you a mission to begin when you return to your home?the mission of teaching retrenchment among the wives and daughters of Israel. It is not right that they should spend so much time in the preparation of their food and adornment of their bodies, and neglect their spiritual education.' Mrs. Horne entered upon this new duty with humility, but with energy. After counseling further with President Young, Sister Snow, and others, the ward Relief Societies were called together in her home, and the matter was presented to them. The sisters manifested much interest and informally organized themselves, thus beginning the Senior Retrenchment Association. This was the commencement of the *History of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association, p. 31. 173 uniting of a group of wards, and presaged the stake unit. But President Young had further plans. Like the Prophet Joseph, he was deeply concerned over the welfare of the young people and could also see that they were essential to the growth of the Church. On November 28, 1869, in the old-fashioned parlor of the Lion House, he called together his family to effect an organization among his daughters which was destined to spread until it should touch the lives of all the young women of the Church:.... The husband and father sat, as was his wont, in the middle of the long room by the round table. Beside him was his loved friend and counselor, President George A. Smith, and on the red velvet davenport, the seat reserved for visitors, sat Sister Smith.