The Joy Of Progression What Relief Society Means To Me Leah D. Widtsoe WO forces are ever present in the mortal world. One leads men toward their Father in Heaven; the other leads downward toward Satan who is the author of darkness. Nothing in this world is static; every living thing is either growing or retrogressing. Human beings are either becoming more intelligent, are improving their lives day by day, or they are becoming less active, less willing to learn and thus less useful. It is impossible for one to stand still intellectually or spiritually or to always be content with things as they are. If we are not climbing upward, growing, learning, improving ourselves, we are bound to be on the downward track. If we can grasp this great truth and understand its deep significance we have learned one of the greatest lessons of life. There is no compromise with truth; no halfway measures will insure progress. It is wise to plan that life shall be so lived from day to day that one is increasingly just a little nearer the source of light and truth instead of farther away. The Right of Choice The blessed privilege enjoyed by all God's children is that each has, or should have, the inalienable right of free agency, the power of choice, the right to use his will to do right or wrong, to obey or to disobey law. However, there are so many tempting lanes to follow, so many distractions along the way, that unless one Adam. Has a guide one is apt to get lost or to err in judgment, at times unintentionally. That all may be guided in this upward reaching toward the light is the purpose of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Fortunately the Gospel as a guide to a happy, useful, and successful life is within the understanding and reach of every son and daughter of It is designed for the use and uplift of all men, women, and children, and its blessings cannot be monopolized by any race, or class, or age group. In its scope, provision is made for the development and comfort of every soul?man, woman, and child. There is work for each to do in climbing upward for his own soul advancement as well as to assist in the upward climb of others. The Relief Society for All Women For this purpose the Priesthood was restored and the different auxiliaries in the Church were organized. The Priesthood is held by all righteous men in the Church. Through the organization of the Relief Society, provision was made that all the women of the Church should have the opportunity for growth and uplift by the use of their own faculties according to their faith and works. Unquestionably the Prophet was inspired to organize the womanhood of the Church so that they too might have the opportunity to develop their innate gifts, to study and achieve a better understanding of the Gospel with its power to lift PAGE 177 178 all God's children. It is a blessed thing to know that our Father in Heaven loves his daughters quite as much as He does His sons and has provided for their welfare and progTess. The sisters who were active in this first organization, just one hundred years ago, were united in their desire to assist in caring for the refugees from the country roundabout whose homes had been destroyed by their enemies and who kept pouring into Nauvoo for protection. The Nauvoo sisters shared their homes, and used all their spare time in sewing for the men who were working on the Nauvoo Temple as well as for anyone in their midst who might be in need. When the suggestion was made that they organize themselves into a Society for helping the poor and unfortunate, they went to the Prophet for his advice on the drafting of their constitution. He replied to them: "This is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord. But He has something better for them than a written constitution. Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren?and I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood." The leaders of the Church met with the sisters, and the Relief Society was organized. The brethren suggested that the name "Benevolent Society" would be expressive of the aims of the Society, but the women preferred the name "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." The women had their way, and thus our Relief Society was born and christened. The Prophet met with the sisters many times, and as a result of his inspirational guidance and their un ?MARCH, 1942 tiring efforts, the aims and policies of the new Society were gradually formulated and crystallized. At. A Relief Society meeting held on June 9, 1842, the Prophet said: "The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to telieve the poor, but to save souls." What a glorious mission for the womanhood of Christ's Church! This had been considered the special prerogative of men and ministers; but a modern Prophet under inspiration had the vision of the mothers of the race extending their upbuilding powers far beyond the limited circles of the individual homes. The scope of the Society has gradually developed until it may be said to rest on a stable, four-square foundation: 1. It provides for the all-round physical and mental development of the individual woman; and by lifting her, the home and family are benefitted. A definite educational program is a vital part of Relief Society activity. 2. The Society gives the opportunity for every woman to benefit others outside her home, as well -as herself and family. To care for one's own advancement only would be but a selfish aim; but through study and responsibility every woman is better prepared to care for self and others positively, that sickness, delinquency, and misfortune may be measurably prevented. It is so much better to use our powers to prevent sickness and sin than to devise means of relief or of cure. This is and should always be our greatest aim. 3. The Society helps to provide for those in distress; for in spite of the greatest care and precaution, misfortune may and does at times overtake everyone. Therefore, the Society is a great blessing to all members in time of trouble or when in need of intelligent help for causes beyond control. 4. Possibly of greatest importance is the opportunity the membership has to study and apply the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, that their spiritual natures may be THE JOY OF PROGRESSION developed and the Gospel be more completely understood and lived by them day by day. Thus they are preparing themselves to be better mothers, wives, and companions of those who hold the holy Priesthood of God. In brief these aims may be thus stated: (1) self improvement; (2) uplift of others and prevention of evil; (3) relief of distress or misfortune; (4) spiritual growth and development for all. 'Thus it may be seen that the scope of the Society is much. Broader than its name indicates. Why Attend Relief Society? Every woman needs some activity outside her home. Her life is so confining, so engrossed with hard though uplifting work and petty details, that were she to have no outside interests it would be easy for her to become stale and unprogressive in her outlook on life. If her outside activities are merely social, she is apt to become shallow and to deteriorate mentally as well as spiritually. The Relief Society offers just the stimulus needed by every woman for constant self-improvement, as well as for the upbuilding of family, home, and community. So, if one were to ask me tersely, "What does the Relief Society mean to you, and how has it blessed your life?" I should have to answer thus: First, it gives me the chance to be a social human being. Through it I am able to meet congenial women who have the same ideals that I have and who are striving to grow and improve themselves as I am. Even though some of them may not be congenial at first, I learn to appreciate them and like them better as I know them better. They are of my time, and most of them have problems to meet that are similar to mine. So I enjoy knowing these 179 women, and from a social point of view alone my time is well spent in going to Relief Society.. I am aware _that we may not all have the same conditions financially, nor have we had the same chances for education, travel, and other advantages, yet we are all working for the same goal? improvement for self and others? and I cherish the opportunity of being one with these women and mingling with them weekly throughout most of the year. Second, I am able to learn something definite every time I go to my Relief Society meeting. 'The programs are so arranged that I receive some benefit every time I attend. I am also often entertained and greatly interested by the varied activities. Members are encouraged to study at home the lesson that is to be given the next week. If I am wise, I do study during the weekh? if only for a few moments at a time ?the coming lesson, for thereby I learn more and enjoy the lesson hour much more as well as being more highly profited thereby. Third, the program in recent years has given much help for improving. Family relations as well as stimulating a greater interest in social and mental health and well-being. Anything that will help me to bea better and healthier person is worth while; and even though I am a grandmother and my family is reared, yet I learn many things that I am glad to pass on to my daughters and friends. Women of all ages constitute the membership of Relief Society, and improvement is there for all. Fourth, the Relief Society has. Helped me greatly to cultivate the few gifts that have been given me 180 and to learn how to become selfreliant. I realize keenly my limitations, yet the Society has encouraged me, as it does every member, to try - when asked and to do my best. I have learned to avoid criticising ? others as I hope others will refrain from doing when my faults become too evident. In other words, the Society helps women to think, speak, and act for themselves?to be independent human beings, not just echoes of their "Lords and Masters" or mere passive members of society. By improving our minds and all our opportunities, we become much better and wiser companions for our husbands and children, or for our friends and dear ones should we be unmarried. Fifth, the Society stimulates and helps to satisfy my craving for the finer things of life. It is easy for a busy mother to become so absorbed in the daily grind that there is no time for anything but the newspapers?and often they are neglected. Good literature should be the companion of everyone who desires to grow, and the Relief Society program helps all to keep up an acquaintance with the best in literature. The is always a good companion for me, and when I read it faithfully I am always built up and feel that I can carry on, no matter what life may bring me. Another joy that the Relief Society has brought me is the exquisite pleasure of listening to the Singing Mothers of modern Zion. It has been my lot to travel widely and visit many of the stakes of Zion. Always when I see the groups of whiteclad women, ready and able to sing the songs of Zion as well as some of ?MARCH, 1942 the lovely classic music of the masters, my heart is thrilled beyond measure; for I know that singing mothers are always better mothers. If mothers sing, children will sing also. I love the name "Singing Mothers," for every mother should sing to her babies in her home, and especially should she sing in her heart for the great gift of motherhood. Every woman is a mother at heart, and whether or not she has been blessed with children, she may sing with the rest of us. The beautiful music given by these singing groups is always uplifting. I have heard as fine music and as well rendered a program from them as from any chorus I have ever heard and much better than some I have heard. Even though some of their renditions may at times fall short of standard, yet I know their very attempts to sing together make them better women. 'Those who practice good music are far less prone to gossip and backbite than they would be were they not engaged in such uplifting work. If the mothers of Zion cultivate good musical taste and practice what they learn we may be sure that we shall all be better people. May the voices of the Singing Mothers of Zion never be stilled, and may their efforts increase until the earth shall be filled with song instead of hatred and war! Sixth, and of greatest benefit to me, is the opportunity the Society affords me to study my religion, to become more and more conversant with the great truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. If the Gospel was given in the beginning and restored in our day for the benefit of every individual on earth, then it is just as THE JOY OF PROGRESSION necessary for women to study and practice its precepts as it is for men. Indeed, their need may be greater, for as the mothers of men it is their duty to guide and direct their families during their most formative years. The Priesthood quorums meet weekly and study different phases of Gospel principles. Because of the Relief Society, the women may also meet weekly and have the chance to study and learn increasingly more and more of restored truth. Were it not for the Society I might not have my privilege of definite, consecutive study of Gospel principles. It is often difficult and sometimes well-nigh impossible for women to leave home Sunday morning to attend Sunday School, or Tuesday evening to attend Mutual; but by planning wisely, most women may arrange to leave for an hour or two one afternoon a week to attend the Relief Society meeting. This is my chance to become conversant with the principles of the Gospel, to develop the spiritual side of my nature, and to get nearer to my Father in Heaven while I learn more of His hand-dealings with His children. Of course, I could and do study the Bible and other Church books at home, and while I receive much benefit therefrom, it is not as stimulating as when discussion is made possible by the many points of view expressed by the members of the Society. Intelligent group study is often more beneficial than individual effort, though the latter is also essential to progress. The study of theology always lifts me to a higher conception of life and gives me added strength to carry on my daily duties. It also makes me a 181 more interesting companion for my husband and a much wiser guide and friend for my children and _ their friends. If my husband were indifferent to the Gospel or even were he not a member of the Church at all, it would be all the more important for me to be faithful in my attendance at Relief Society that my own and my family's lives might be enriched thereby. A Wealth of Benefits One of the greatest attractions of Relief Society to me is its beautiful democracy. Any good woman may become a member if she so desires? there is nothing "exclusive" or "high-brow" about our Society. All the benefits here enumerated may be possessed by any woman who will join, and all are invited to participate in some phase of the varied activities. This is as it should be in the Church of Christ and as it must be in the world before peace may reign. Equal opportunity for progress and happiness must be available to all the people of earth. The Gospel teaches how it may be done. I wish that more young women would become members of the Society ? especially young mothers. The program is particularly needed by them and is adapted to their use. So many problems arise in the home that receive new light after study and discussion in the Society program. Really, the most crucial need is here, for only as there are better, wiser mothers, may the race improve and may sin be conquered. The home is indeed the cradle of all progress. If mothers cannot leave young children at home, a room in the (Continued on page 221)