In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman CHAPTER III STUDENT, 'TEACHER, TRAVELER N the fall of 1888 I entered the Normal Department of Brigham Young Academy. My sister Susan and I were driven to Provo by father in a farm wagon along with some furniture and supplies, and we were located in a large room near the school where we were to do light housekeeping. Each week end provisions from home were sent to us across Provo Bench. The school was then located in the old Z. C. M. I. Warehouse near the railroad depot, where it had been housed since the fire had destroyed its original home, Lewis Hall, on Center Street. It occupied the whole second floor of the warehouse, with several offices and the laboratory on the ground floor. To me the school was a surprise, a marvel, and a delight. It did not matter that the building was a plain ordinary warehouse, nor that the desks were long, crude, table affairs with chairs of the kitchen variety. It was the spirit and atmosphere of the institution which were so fascinating and satisfying. I had heard a great deal from my brothers and sisters and other former students about how fine the school was, how the spirit of the Gospel permeated every quarter, and how the students regarded religion as the most important subject in the whole curriculum. I had anticipated much, but the reality exceeded my expectations, and I found that the wonders PAGE 182 of the school had not half been told. That year seemed to me to be the happiest of my life, and the world such a fascinating place in which to live. It was during this period that I met and fell in love with my future husband, Richard R. Lyman, so why shouldn't it be the happiest time of my life? As I think of it now, the school was really as remarkable as I then thought it was, for it featured those things which are most important in this life and in the life to come. There were a number of excellent teachers, but the most important, best loved and honored was, of course, Dr. Karl G. Maeser, who stood at the head and was really the soul of the institution. Tall and thin, dressed in a Prince Albert coat, he personified the idea of the old professor, and ruled the school like a general. 'Trained for his work in Old-World education centers, he was an educator of the first rank, a fine scholar, and a finished teacher. His enthusiasm and earnestness, his unwavering faith and _ spirituality, his fine character, and his daily life were a constant inspiration to his students and stimulated them to greater effort and accomplishment than they had thought possible. He loved the calling of a teacher and often said he hoped he would be able to teach in heaven. I was a member of his Theology class, in connection with which we had a IN RETROSPECT AMY BROWN, AGE 18 monthly testimony meeting, and I was also a member of his classes in History of Education, Theory and Practice of Teaching and, occasionally, Elocution, when he substituted so ably for the teacher of that subject. Next to my own parents, Brother Maeser influenced my life. Our daily devotional exercises brought us all together each morning when there would be singing and prayer, a message from Brother Maeser or one of his associates, and special instructions, if there were any to give. A quotation from an address I gave at the B. Y. U. Alumni banquet in June, 1941, further describes school life in 1888: "School life as I knew it under Brother Maeser at the old B. Y. A. When school was held at the warehouse was. Interesting, profitable, happy, satisfying, and wholesome. As I look back, I recall many fine extra-curricular features. For example, on Sunday morning at 10 o'clock there was a special meeting (or chapel service it might be called) in the school assembly hall for students. It was known as the Missionary meeting. Impromptu speaking was encouraged, and anyone who had the desire might address the assembly. Students ambitious to become public speakers, sometimes, unbeknown to their class mates, prepared these so-called impromptu speeches. Returned missionaries also enjoyed the privilege of making reports here. These meetings were always well attended. "Then there was the Domestic Department established to look after students during out-of-school hours. In each boarding place, one student was appointed to act as monitor. It was his duty to look after the rest and to report regularly in Domestic meeting, held monthly, as to how things were going, and whether school rules were being observed. Students were not expected to be out at night, even until 7 o'clock, without special written permission from Brother Maeser himself. Nine o'clock was considered a late hour. These permission notes were signed ?Msr. "For recreation we had Polysophical Society which held forth every Friday night, when excellent literary and musical programs were given by the best talent available in the school. And once in five weeks there was a student dance in the school assembly hall which began at 8 o'clock and closed promptly at 12 o'clock. We were so happy in those dances we did not notice the poor, splintered floor. We were not ex- 184 pected to frequent public dances. Nor did we. I never heard anyone complain, however, about school re- | strictions. Everybody seemed satisfied and happy." I was graduated from the Normal School in June, 1890, and was selected, with several others, to make a short speech at commencement exercises. It was customary then for a number of students to appear on the commencement program. Graduating with me in the class of 1890 were two of the choicest spirits and most faithful and devoted friends I have ever known, and two of the finest and ablest persons this state and Church has produced ? they were Prof. Alice Louise Reynolds and Dr. George W. Middleton. We studied together, and together we prepared for our final examinations. This close friendship with these two precious souls covered a period of fifty-two years and ended only with their recent deaths, which occurred less than one year apart. Miss Reynolds was like a sister to me. My home was her home. She came and went as she pleased and was always welcome. During two summers she joined us in study ?one summer at the University of Chicago and one summer at Cornell University. While my husband was presiding over the European Mission she spent the summer with us in London, where we visited many historic and literary shrines together. Dr. Middleton, so greatly beloved by every member of our family, came to our home often, on friendly as well as professional calls. He always called on Christmas morning, and since his death Christmas morning is for us no longer the same. ?MARCH, 1942 A few weeks after my graduation, I was engaged by Brother Maeser to go back to the "Y" and take charge of what was then known as the "Primary Department," and under his supervision and direction, in the fall of 1890 I began my work as a teacher, at a salary of $40 per month ? one-third cash and twothirds tithing script. In 1891, the B. Y. A. Was moved from its temporary home in the Z. C. M. I. Warehouse to its new home on the new campus, in the northern part of the city, now known as the lower campus. The new building, college hall, was considered a real palace by the students. Here we had central heat, a telephone, and other conveniences. I taught in the Training School of the institution for four years and had the privilege during that time of working under President Benjamin Cluff, Jr., who was a constant inspiration to both his teachers and students, and Prof. George H. Brimhall, that dynamic and forceful teacher and builder of character, who was in direct charge of the Training School. In addition to my work in the Training School, I taught, at different periods, needle work, physical education, and during an emer- - gency I served as matron of the school. I used to feel at times that teaching in a Church school had its handicaps, especially for young women who loved fun, parties, and dancing as I did. The teachers were supposed to be very circumspect and to set a good example, which was rather hard on the younger faculty members. Party dresses with low necklines and short sleeves were not very common and were taboo for us. "THE FACULTY OF B. Y. A., 1890? Front row, left to right: Mary Lyman (Gowans), Otillie Maeser (Phelps), Amy Brown (Lyman). Center row, left to right: Ephraim E. Gowans, Prof. Benjamin Cluff, Jr., Dr. Karl G. Maeser, Prof. Joseph B. Keeler, Emil Maeser. Back row, left to right: Prof. George H. Brimhall, Prof. N. L. Nelson, Prof. E. B. Isgreen, Hyrum Anderson. One great disappointment that I remember distinctly was when I was advised not to take part in a grand masquerade ball given in the Provo Theater by the society folk of the town. It was really the ball of the season, and all of my girl friends dressed and masked for the occasion. I felt quite rebellious at being ad- 'vised. Not to-take part and argued the point with Brother Maeser. I told him I had been held down all my life, and that I was tired of being a bishop's daughter and a Church school teacher. [ think I even shed a few tears about it. But I finally gave in, and sat in the front' row of the dress circle?we called it baldheaded row?with the older people, where I watched my friends enjoy all the fun that accompanied those old masquerade balls. For several years I boarded in the Maeser home, where I was treated as a daughter of the house. It was a home of order, system, regularity, 186 -and immaculate cleanliness, as well as a home of rare culture and refinement. Sister Anna Meith Maeser, daughter of an educator, wife of an educator, born and reared in a home of luxury and refinement in the great art center, Dresden, Germany, was an expert and frugal housekeeper and homemaker, and looked constantly to the welfare and comfort of her distinguished husband and his household. Because of her understanding and appreciation of the rare abilities of her husband, and of the importance of his work and mission as a great teacher and leader, and because she realized his great need for proper care and consideration in his strenuous work, she always subordinated herself and her personal interests to him and his work. She felt that first things should come first. She was innately modest and unassuming, and willing to remain in the background. Her abilities and qualifications were therefore not generally known or fully appreciated. Brother Maeser never had one moment's concern about how the income could best be spent, about the condition of his home either inside or outside, or about his personal effects and clothing. His always immaculate and dignified appearance in his well-pressed trousers and Prince Albert coat was due in no small measure to the attention and care of his practical and devoted wife. While visiting Germany in 1938, we were thrilled when President and Sister A. C. Rees informed us that our tour through the East German Mission would include visiting branches in and about Dresden. We had hoped that we might be able to ?MARCH, 1942 visit this famous city with its great art gallery, reputed to be one of the best three in the world, where there are many famous original paintings, including Raphael's "Sistine Madonna" and Hoffman's "Head of Christ." We were also interested in the city because it was the birthplace and former home of Sister Maeser who had been a second mother to me. She had often told me of her father's work there as director of the Budich Institute, a noted Lutheran college where she herself was educated, of her lovely childhood home of luxury and comfort, and of her ? marriage in a fashionable Lutheran church to her sweetheart from Meisen, who was her father's chief assistant and vice-director of the Institute. We were also overjoyed to find that a short side trip from Dresden was planned to visit the elders in Meisen, which was the birthplace of our beloved Brother Maeser. We went to the house where he was born and saw the sacred little slant-ceilinged upstairs bedroom where he first saw light. As we stood there we seemed to hear again the ringing testimony of our precious teacher, which had been his greatest source of comfort and an inspiration to his students. We signed our names in a book which had been placed there by Dr. James E. Talmage. | How appropriate for Doctor Talmage, the brilliant student and faithful follower of Brother Maeser, to seek out the birthplace of this great teacher and have a tablet placed upon it! We also went to the china factory where Brother Maeser's father, who was an artist, painted china, and where the chair in which he sat as he painted is still preserved. We found they were still using the identi- IN RETROSPECT cal rose pattern which he used so long ago. The cups and saucers and other pieces looked exactly like those the Maeser family brought to Utah and treasured so highly, and which I remember so well. I was deeply touched on this day. After these visits I marveled more than ever at the courage and bravery exhibited by Brother and Sister Maeser in giving up so much for the Gospel, in facing so bravely the hardships and poverty of their early days in Utah. Through all their trials and tribulations they never faltered in their loyalty to the Church. One of my most prized possessions today is a gift book from Brother Maeser?a beautifully-bound book? Scott's Lady of the Lake, presented to me on my nineteenth birthday. On the flyleaf are to be found these words: "Feb. 7, 1891. To Miss Amy Brown, in kind remembrance of her teacher and friend. Dr. Karl G. Maeser." Teaching children is always interesting whether in a private or public school. From the B. Y. A., I came to the schools of Salt Lake City, where under that able educator and gentleman, Dr. J. F. Millspaugh, who was then superintendent, I worked at a salary of $100 per month, which seemed a fortune to me. Professor William M. Stewart had offered me a position in the Training School at the University of Utah, but I felt that I had served my time in teacher-training work. The Salt Lake City schools were then operating under a board of education which was anti-Mormon, and which a few years previously had reorganized the school system and eliminated practically all Latter-day Saint teachers, and imported teach- 187 ers from the outside to take their places. When I began teaching here in 1894, there were only a few Latterday Saint teachers in the entire city. What a blessing that much of the prejudice against the Mormons has been overcome! I heard Anna Garlin Spencer, a brilliant American woman, say in an address that prejudice should be classed with other destructive forces such as war, poverty, and disease. It was always a mystery to me why some people who were so antagonistic to the Mormons chose to live among them. While I was still at the B. Y. U., the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated, April 6, 1893. Upon the invitation of President Francis. M. Lyman, I accompanied him and his daughter, Mrs. William H. King, to the sessions on the first day. It was one of the most thrilling spiritual experiences of my life. As I sat there during those impressive services I thought, as no doubt did many others, of that other April 6, 1853, forty years before, when the cornerstones of the great edifice were laid, and of the hardships and struggles of the people during these many years in their efforts to carry on the work; also of the long years of steady and continued effort which had been put forth to produce this sacred and magnificent temple. The dedicatory prayer was offered by President Wilford Woodruff, then 86 years of age. As he stood there before the people with hair and beard as white as snow, the essence of purity, gentleness, and faithfulness, he reminded me of the prophets of old. In later years as I became intimately acquainted with President Woodruff, my appreciation and admiration of this gentle 188 and righteous man were unbounded. Since that time I have visited all of the temples erected by the Church except the Nauvoo Temple, and I have visited a number of times the spot upon which it stood. I also had the privilege of attending the dedicatory services of the Canadian Temple, August 26, 1923, and the Arizona Temple, October 23, 1927, which were dedicated by our beloved prophet and leader, President Heber J. Grant, who in his ringing voice thrilled his hearers with his glorious prayer and with the earnestness of his testimony. HE summer of 1895 was a redletter period for me, for it was then I took my first long trip from home?a trip which made such a great impression upon me that I always enjoy recalling it. Traveling about the country in those days before the invention of the automobile was much less common _ than it is today. The tour included Chicago, Ann Arbor?where I went to attend the graduation exercises of my fianc? at the University of Michigan?New York, Boston, and Washington. Returning, I visited my father's people in Illinois. I had made great preparation for the trip by replenishing and refurbishing my wardrobe. I remember especially the beautiful, cream silk formal dress trimmed with white passementerie, which I wore to the grand senior ball at Michigan University. I traveled to Ann Arbor with President Francis M. Lyman, my future father-in-law, one of the most genial and lovable personalities I have ever known, and an ideal traveling companion. While in the ?MARCH, 1942 college town, I was the guest of my brother, James L. Brown, later Professor of Education at the B. Y. U., and his interesting family. The commencement exercises at this great University and the social functions connected therewith were full of interest and excitement for me. Richard R. Lyman was president of his class, and we were shown many courtesies and were entertained lavishly by his friends. It was said of him at that time that he was the most popular student on the campus. He had been president of his class in his sophomore year, and was elected president again in his senior year. This is the highest college honor the students can confer upon a classmate. And as if that honor from his classmates were not enough, twenty-five years ago he was elected president of the class (1895) for life. He made friends largely because he could not help it. He likes people and believes that on the whole the human race is pretty good. I was rather startled at the attention he received from the charming Michigan coeds. This set me to thinking. I had the honor at this time of being presented to President James B. Angel of the University, who gave us an unhurried and extended interview. President Angel was one of the greatest college presidents of his day. He was very courteous and kind and was especially interested in President Francis M. Lyman?his background and his people. Of him President Angel made sympathetic inquiry about a number of former Utah students who had attended Michigan University and had made notable records there among them were George Sutherland, William IN RETROSPECT H. King, James H. Moyle, and Benjamin Cluff, Jr. There was great warmth in his greeting and charm in his manner. I saw New York with a group of Z. C. M. I. Buyers and members of their families. It would be difficult to explain how thrilling New York was to the women members of the party, this being their first visit to the great metropolis. Born and reared as I had been in a small village, this was especially the case with me. The elevated railroad and the subway were equally mysterious, and the theaters and business districts marvelous. Many courtesies were extended to the party by the various business houses with which Z. C. M. I. Was connected. It was interesting as well as gratifying to note the respect in which this great Mormon institution was held among business men in New York. My father's people in Illinois received me very kindly, especially his sister, Aunt Sarah Thomason, who took me into her home and her heart and escorted me about to visit a number of the nieces, nephews, and cousins. They were all interested in me as the daughter of a favorite relative and as the first of his children to visit them. They felt as if he had been almost lost to his family 189 when he joined the Mormons. Then there were some who were quite curious, as they had never before seen a Mormon. I visited the old cemetery near Pinckneyville where many of the Browns and been buried, and the old homestead and farm where my father had lived and worked and played, the fields and forests where. He had roamed?all of which he loved so dearly, but had left for the sake of the Gospel. The farm was bordered on one side by a dense, virgin forest which had purposely been left in its native state. Here I saw huge hardwood trees, the largest and loveliest I had ever seen, especially the maples and oaks. Beneath them there grew tall ferns, ivy which wound itself about the trunks of the trees, and gorgeous, sweet-smelling, wild herbs and flowers. After seeing his former home and surroundings in this beautiful and fertile country where corn grows taller than a man, sometimes ten feet high, I could understand why he loved trees and verdure and why he had worked and struggled so hard in his mountain desert home to produce trees. I have seen him many times carry water in a bucket across a field to refresh a beloved shade tree. (To be continued ) Relief Society Jubilee a celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the first organization of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842, was held in the large tabernacle in Salt Lake City, March 17 tourists were also present. 7, 1892, and was largely attended by those resident in the city. The stands were handsomely ornamented with flowering Many strangers and plants, principally calla and Easter lilies. The large organ was draped with the stars and stripes, the flags extending across, and a large oil painting of Joseph, the Prophet, was hung high in the center; below it was an immense key made of the most beautiful flowers, underneath which was the picture, life size, of Emma Smith, the first president of the Relief Society, and on her right a picture of Eliza R. Snow, the second president, and on her left that of Zina D. H. Young, the present president.''?