HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon To lighten the load for others brings gladness to one's self. ALICE HEGAN RICE, author of Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch, died last month. In her writings she expressed a helpful philosophy; for instance, "I've made it a practice to put all my worries down In the bottom of my heart, then sit on the lid and smile." ILY DJANEL, new Metropolitan soprano and world-famous "Carmen," is a French refugee. She was singing in Paris five days before it was taken by the Germans. She has taken New York by storm?not of artillery, but voice and charm. | Si saab COCHRAN, ?famous aviatrix, has been assembling about 400 American women flyers to augment the present so British women ferry pilots in the British Air Transportation Auxiliary. [ JEUTENANT COLONEL POLLY POTTERS, head of the Eaglette Flying Squadron, a group of 64 Southern California women, has offered the services of the Squadron to the United States as ferry pilots and general assistants to the army, navy, and coast guard. OMEN taxicab drivers have made their appearance on San Diego streets. These cabbyettes are necessary to meet the shortage of men drivers leaving for service in the army and navy. NANCY MERKI, fifteen-year-old Portland, Oregon, girl swimmer, holds a world record with four AmerPAGE 198 ican marks, and seven national championships. She was noted the outstanding woman swimmer for 1941. CAROLE LOMBARD'S | tragic death in an airplane accident closed the brilliant career of one of filmdom's beloved characters, and created many changes in the motion picture world. MARY FIELDS GARNER, age 106, Emily Hodgetts Lowder, 101, and Tressie Heath Burgess, go, Utah pioneer mothers, all well and hearty, received honors this last winter on their anniversaries. How marvelous to have lived a century of usefulness! ELIZABETH PUGSLEY HAYWARD, honored civic and Church woman leader, Sophie J. L. McKean, a Gold Star mother, Genevieve Alice Pyper, Ann Nebeker, and Genevieve Bourne, of Utah, and Louise L. Fisher, of Idaho, are listed among the prominent women who died this past winter. All were daughters of Utah pioneers and earnest workers in Church and state affairs. ELEANOR DARK'S Australian story, The Timeless Land, Dragon Seed by Pearl Buck, Marion Alive by Vicky Baum, Saratoga Trunk by Edna Ferber, and Lonely Parade by Fannie Hurst, are among the latest outstanding books by women. Notes.