Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS Norwegian Mission (Oslo, Norway ) KRISTOFA SONSTEBY, president of the Relief Society in the Norwegian Mission, wrote from Oslo on October 23, 1940, as follows: "We thank you for the Relief Society lessons received some time ago, both sets at the same time. We had then lost all hope of getting the lessons in time to get them translated and sent out, so we had worked out a lesson plan ourselves, and the Relief Society had started their meetings the first Tuesday in September. We decided then that the organizations could continue with the program on which they had 'started. We hope that is all right with you. The lessons may be used next year. It is hard to tell how the mail connection and the conditions will be by then. "In our organization here in Norway we have selected for our theology lesson Apostle James E. Talmage's book The Articles of Faith. The district sisters' lessons are worked from Apostle John A. Widtsoe's and Sister Leah D. Widtsoe's book The Word of Wisdom, A Modern Interpretation. In our third meeting we read and discuss the world's best authors. Instead of using lessons in the social service meeting, the sisters do sewing and mending for poor people, and discuss cooking and preparing of food. Elders have helped to write. "All of us are well, and the Relief Society sisters attend their meetings as before and are interested in the work. "I thank you in behalf of all of us for your kind greetings sent through the General Secretary, and we also thank all our sisters over there for the prayers ascended in our behalf." Argentine Mission (Buenos Aires, Argentina) FOLLOWING are excerpts from a letter dated January 7, 1942, from Corraine S. Williams, president of Relief Societies in the Argentine Mission: "We had a very successful bazaar on December 6; we found the date before Christmas much better than in March (our fall). "Also, I might mention that each of our branches has a little bank, into which each sister can put from ten to twenty cents as often as she is able. This amount is donated directly to the welfare plan. "We are making plans for our celebration in April. We have an original production which several of the It will contain original music, dances, and dialogue, and of course is entirely in Spanish. I will try and send a synopsis of it in English at a later date. We have titled it "The Light of the World, or A Guiding Hand. PAGE 199 200 ?MARCH, 1942 RELIEF SOCIETY AT ANCHORAGE, ALASKA RELIEF SOCIETY AT FAIRBANKS, ALASKA Dressed in their Alaskan parkas, INSTITUTE Or ee 452 SOUTH REDWOOD ROA SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH