DEAR EDITOR:
	Perhaps some of the wives who read your
paper are sometimes puzzled to know what to
get to eat and will be glad to hear others tell
what their husbands like. My husband likes
pancakes, but would not get them often now,
when eggs are twenty-five cents per dozen, if
my neighbor had not given me the recipe for
what she calls the "Hard-time pancakes." I
tried her plan of beating up thoroughly to-
gether flour, salt, buttermilk and soda, into a
batter thin enough to pour, and fried quickly
with plenty of lard, it makes a delicious dish
for breakfast, and will answer occasionally as a
substitute for meat; By "plenty of lard" I
do not mean that one should use as much as is
used to fry crullers or fritters, especially now
when lard is seventeen cents per lb., but have
the griddle or skillet well greased.
	My husband is also very fond of Chili Sauce
which I make by chopping up fine, four large
onions, twelve large ripe tomatoes, three red
peppers; adding then salt, three teaspoonfuls
each of ginger, whole cloves and ground cinna-
mon, seven tablespoonfuls of sugar, and three
teacupfuls of vinegar, boiling all together for
an hour and seal up hot.
	I read in your paper, a very interesting ar-
tickle, some time ago, about saving small things.
The writer spoke of the value of the sunflower.
When gathering my sunflower seeds this fall, I
remembered the article and ask permission to
add that its stalk makes very good kindling
wood; and to suggest to some enterprising
person the possibility of using the seeds for
dying purposes, as they stain the hands a deep
purple color which will not rub off easily.
	Now before I close I will tell the young
ladies what my little girl is making; perhaps
some of them would be glad of the suggestion,
to make something for a Christmas gift to a
sister, cousin or aunt. It may be old to many.
She has taken a cow horn, after the butcher
cleaned the inside of it, and after scraping the
outside with glass until it was smooth, she
pasted small transfer pictures on it, and is
varnishing it now; after the varnish dries she
will make small holes through the top and
tip through which she will put a fancy cord or
a ribbon, and it will make a beautiful orna-
ment for the corner of the parlor to hold a
winter bouquet.		EMILY SCOTT


