MRS. SCOTT ASKS MORE QUESTIONS.
Well what did the Commissioners do ? They
should have come around this way. If they
make polygamy the main issue, I could have
shown them several corners where polygamous
cobwebs are pretty thick even in Ohio. Oh,
this is a queer world: as the simple girl said,
“There be the most queer folks in this’ere world
that I ever saw any where.” Now sitting at
my open window of a summer Sunday evening
I can hear the songs and sermons in the Metho-
dist church near by. I smile to hear them
sing:
“Blest be the tie that binds
Our hearts in Christian love.”
And sometimes wonder what God thinks of that
Christian binding. The church is a fine one,
most of the members very wealthy, living in
palatial homes, and nearly all connected by
business or marriage relations. But oh! how
thin is that Christian binding—almost worn
through, but patched by policy and pride,
darned by dimes and dollars. One of their
prominent members—an old man—was dealt
with for improper conduct with a dressmaker,
a young sister in the Church, not long since.
Quite a stir was made just at the time, and
one of the Deacons became so excited that he
struck the erring brother, and would have
thrashed him soundly, but was prevented by
the bystanders. The matter was hushed up,
and they all went to church together. Now it
was a big affair, and aroused my religious scorn
to see it ,so [---]tly, nicely tucked into a hiding
place. I ha[-] no relish for such matters, but
do not like [---]e a dirty mess swept into a
corner and covered up, and have to say: “How
nice and clean your house is.” I rather ad-
mire[-] [-]he pluck of the Deacon, and one day
expressed my admiration saying: “He is al-
together upright so far as women are concerned
isn’t he?” “W-e-1-1” said my companion dryly,
“t-h-e-re is never v-er-y m-u-c-h said a-g-a-i-nst
h-i-m in that w-a-y.” The story was like a
snowball, the bigger it got, the faster it got
bigger; so, disgusted, I dropped it and smiled.
	I am sorry you did not clear up the questions
I broached in my last letter. I can not accept
any religion that will not bear sifting. Poly-
gamy does not trouble me. I really bellieve it
would make the world better and happier. *
*	*	 Please do not be displeased with
erratic talking, I am not so vicious as it may
appear. Shall I ask you to pardon mistakes,
or must I rewrite the letter and correct them ?
(perhaps multiply them) know that at my
elbow sits Alice (age eleven) studying, and its
“Ma, is this answer right.” Then Mr. D, on
the other side of the table, says, “Em, can you
listen a moment ?” He is reading, A. Willford
Hall’s “Problem of Human Life.” Sumner
and Charlie sandwich their boyish exploits in
between times, so that my pen is like the tele-
graph instrument—must click away while
messages are going over the wires, from ear to
ear, on various matters.
I remember with pleasure your picture of
home-life. Our home is very pleasant. I call
our house “The tramp’s retreat,', as preachers
of all denominations, doctors, teachers and
everybody calls in.	Emma S.


[Column 1]
