OBITUARY.
			Resolutions of Respect.
	On the death of Mrs. Ellen Jackson Goldsbrough, who
departed this life five hours after the birth of a son, her
tenth child, at her residence in Nephi, Oct. 27, 1882.
	Whereas, God in his mercy and wisdom, has seen fit
to call from our midst our beloved sister, who has been
so faithful in the discharge of her duties as a Relief So-
ciety Teacher, and as a Counselor in the Primary Asso-
ciation, and who has been acknowledged as a devoted
wife in the plural order of marriage, who was a kind and
affectionate mother, a loving daughter and sister, and a
true and confiding friend; and who in her girlhood left
all that was near and dear to her, in her native land, to
cast her lot with the Latter-day Saints; crossed the plains
in a hand-cart company. Her aged father and mother
brother and two sisters, followed with joy she welcomed
them to her mountain home. She was truly the Pioneer
of her father's house, and now her pure spirit has gone
before to the spirit world, there to await and welcome
her kindred and all that she held dear in this life.
	We, as officers and members of the Nephi Relief So-
ciety unanimously adopt the following resolutions.
	We sincerely condole with the husband and partner
Amelia Goldsbrough, and her dear children, also her aged
father, and mother, brothers and sisters, and tender them
our heartfelt sympathies in this sad bereavement. May
her examples of purity and integrity be emulated by
every member of our Society, that her noble life may
inspire in us a renewed determination to honor our re-
ligion and our God.
	Resolved, That we adopt these resolutions as a token
of respect, that we present a copy of these resolutions to


her family, and publish the Woman's Ex-
ponent, and place a copy on our record.
	May angels welcome to their realms of light
	Our Sister dear, so lovely, pure and bright,
	In paradise, among the pure and good
	Who for the cause of truth have nobly stood.
					Mary Pitchporth, Pres.
					M. E. Teasdale, Sec'y.


