R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS.
	Cohoes, N. Y. Oct. 24, 1882.
Editor Exponent:
	A year has passed since our Society was or-
ganized. How short the time has seemed; for
our meetings have been like milestones along
our way, guiding and encouraging us onward.
They are a great comfort and blessing to us,
and when we look back to the time before we
had these meetings we wonder how we could
have gotten along without them. The Presi-
dent of the Society makes the meetings inter-
esting as well as instructive, and the members
attend quite regularly.
	Tuesday, 17th inst., was the anniversary of
our organization. On that day we held a
meeting, the exercises being appropriate for
that occasion. We felt doubly blest and each
fully enjoyed herself.
	Being a very small Society, we have not a
very large amount in the Treasury, but it is
willingly given. Two dollars have been given
for missionary purposes, five dollars we shall
send to the Logan Temple, and have some
remaining in the Treasury.
	Hoping we shall soon be gathered to Zion
where we shall be with God's people. I remain
yours in the Gospel,
			Hattie F. Clough, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
	﻿PERSONAL EXPERIENCE, ETC.
DEAR MRS. SCOTT:
	Allow me to offer you a helping hand. I
am much interested in your wading about in
the mud.
	I may as well say to begin with, that when a
child, my first attempt to read the Book of
Mormon through met with a similar result to
that which you have lately experienced.
	When I came to the second chapter of Jacob,
I became somewhat confused. I thought I did
not understand it, or if I did, it told me that
the Lord condemned “Polygamy,” and that it
was an abomination in his sight.
	I did not go humbly before the Lord then,
and ask for an explanation of the matter, But
with the book open in my hand, I went to my
father and asked him if “Polygamy” was right,
and if the Lord did reveal the principles to
Joseph Smith, with the commandment that he
and some of his brethren should enter into it?
To these questions my father replied calmly
and solemnly in the affirmative.
	“Then,” I demanded, “What does this
mean?” And I read aloud those passages
which seemed to me to make the Lord appear
anything but an “unchangeable being," “the
same yesterday, to-day and forever.” If He
had actually said those things to Jacob for the
Nephites, and the exact opposite to Joseph for
the Latter-day Saints. My father heard me
through, and then took the book and read, and
endeavored to make clear to my understand-
ing, the fact that no inconsistencies existed be-
tween the teachings in that chapter, and the
teachings of our Latter-day prophets. He ad-
mitted that some men among our people were
foolish, and would do wrong, and that they
would be held accountable for their wrong do-
ing. The Lord would not justify sin and
wickedness among his people now, any more
than in former days, His daughters and their

			[Column 2]
purity were as precious in his sight to-day as
in any age of the world that had ever been.
And a great deal more was said, but I could
not comprehend it. I was sure that my father
knew what he told me was the truth; but he
could not know it for me. Every other prin-
ciple of our religion which I had heard or
thought anything about, seemed so plain and
also so good and beautiful, that I wondered
why I could not see the good and beauty of
“Polygamy,” if really there were any in it.
	My parents were Latter-day Saints, not only
in name but in deed and in truth, years before
my birth. So that—something like yourself,
Mrs. Scott, “I was conceived in faith, brought
forth in repentance and raised in baptism.”
But differing from you somewhat, I did not
“believe because my parents and relatives did;”
but had to understand things for myself in or-
der to believe them. I was baptized when six
years of age because I wanted to be. My father
thought best for me to wait two years, until I
should be eight years old. But our Bishop
said I had as good an understanding of things
as many children at the age of eight years; he
advised my father to baptize me, and it was
done. 
	When I was fifteen years old, I began to
realize the inconsistency of my being a staunch
advocate of “Mormonism” in the main, while
one of its vital principles, I could not say that
I understood or believed. One thing I ac-
knowledged to myself, I had not striven dili-
gently to find out for a certainty whether or
not “Polygamy” was right. Instead of study-
ing into it, I had simply looked at it, concluded
it was a doubtful problem, and inheroically
let it alone. I wanted to know about it for
myself now, and began to pray earnestly for
greater faith and light. (This, I think, you
might do with profit, my dear Mrs. Scott.)
The Lord was merciful unto me, He heard my
prayers, and the light came. Not suddenly,
as it comes to some; but gradually and unmis-
takably. Not without many efforts on my part
to grasp a ray when it was presented to me, to
hold and nourish a gleam of truth when I got it.
I learned to understand the principles of
“Polygamy,” very much as we learn to under-
stand principles m mathematics or chemistry;
and it seems as clear to me now as that two
and two make four, or that alkali and acid
compounded in liquid form will effervesce.
	In the second chapter of Jacob, before
alluded to, the word of the Lord to the people
of Nephi was, “There shall not any man among
you have save it be one wife; and concubines
he shall have none.” They were but a small
people, their men and women being about
equal in number. It was not the design of the
Lord that their seed should multiply very
rapidly, but that He might raise up unto him-
self a righteous branch, from the “fruit of the
loins of Joseph.” In the same chapter it is
written, “For if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts,
raise up seed unto me, I will command my
people; otherwise they shall hearken unto these
things.”
	In these the latter-days, the Lord wills to
raise up seed unto himself, and He has com-
manded his people, through the medium of his
Prophet Joseph Smith, and they have heark-
ened, some of them, and obeyed the voice of
the Lord by entering into plural marriage, or
as it is styled, “Polygamy.” “Whoredoms,”
and all licentiousness are as abominable in the
sight of the Lord today as they ever were, and
such things have nothing to do with the “Poly-
gamy” of the Latter-day Saints. To the faith-
ful members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, whether political “polygam-
ists” or not, nothing is held so choice and sacred
as personal virtue and chastity: and nothing
is so dreadful as the loss of it;
	We consider that a man who marries two or
more wives, and remains faithful to them, is as

			[Column 3]
pure and good as the man who marries but one
and is true to her. And in like manner do
we view the women who are faithful to their
husbands, whether they live in “Polygamy” or
out of it.
	If you are still in doubt about the same Lord
giving one commandment to the Nephites, and
another to the Latter-day Saints, let me call
your attention to a single illustration of a simi-
lar occurrence, recorded in the old Testament.
	You know all about the storing of a very
great amount of grain in Egypt, because of the
sore famine that was coming upon the land and
how the blessings of the Lord rested upon the
world. You will also please call to mind, how
but a few generations later, when the Lord
fed his people with manna in the wilderness,
the word was that none of the manna should
be stored away, (to make their loads heavier as
they travelled,) except a little for the Sabbath.
And when this commandment was broken, the
result was evil instead of good for the people.
Many other examples might be cited, but let
this suffice to show that what suits one people
and their condition may not be applicable to
others in their time.
	One thing more. You say the “vexing of
the wicked” is what makes you bitter and un-
happy, for religiously the wicked includes all
who differ from the Church.” We do not view
it in that light at all. We believe that people
who are honest and virtuous, and who seek to
benefit others, will never be classed among the
wicked and the ungodly, though they make no
professions of religion. They receive better
rewards than thousands of professed religionists
who parade their piety, but whose inner lives
are vile and corrupt.
	“The wicked” are those who would stir up
strife and contention, who are dishonest, im-
moral, and who seek to abuse and discomfort
others. Is it not just, that such should be
punished? We would not allow one of our
young children to heap impositions on another
without interfering, and putting the bad one to
shame, if after being told repeatedly how he
ought to act, he still persisted in being bad.
Neither will our great Father suffer some of
his children to wrong others, and not bring
them to judgment for it.
	“Why not prevent the wickedness?” you
ask. Why not indeed! which of us would
not, if we had the power.
	Your ideas of happiness and religion re-
mind me of an expression made by a stranger
lady who attended a little birthday gathering,
given to one of our noble sisters a short time
since. She said of us, “You are indeed, a hap-
py people, whether you are right or not.” Our
answer was, “Our happiness is an evidence that
we are right. Did we not know that we are
right before our God, we could not be thus
happy.”
	True religious sentiments and lives will make
people happy and satisfied under very trying
circumstances. But a religion which requires
no self-denials, which offers no occasions for
the uprooting of native selfishness and the cul-
tivation of more generous fruits, would be too
cheap and too unlike the religion of Jesus to
be valued very highly.
	What a long letter, and I would say more
but that I fear, Mrs. Scott, you (or our mutual
friend the editor) will lose patience with me,
and I would not like to vex you. So goodbye.
