[COLUMN 1]
MEMORY THE CURSE OR BLESSING
			OF EXISTENCE.
			BY HANNAH T. KING.
	November the fourth, 1882. Evening—as
usual I am alone, and yet, not by any means
alone, or lonely; my brain is all alive with a
vision of the PAST, memory by her mystical
power draws back with soft and gentle hand
a curtain, and a marvelous panorama opens to
my view.  I behold a river, yes the classic
waters of the Cam roll at my feet; a group
of kind and watchful friends are around
me not the friends of my youth, not my
blood relations, no, they are away; afar
off in every sense of the word; they are not
cognizant of the step I am about to take.
'Twould have been vain to apprize them,
they would not have condescended even to
listen to me; so after mature reflection, I decide
to take the step that I feel will revolutionize
my life.
	Alone! Yet no, not all alone, one loving,
clinging spirit—“bone of my bone and flesh of
my flesh,” and far more still, twin spirit of
my soul, holds my hand and whispers, “let me
go with you, I desire with all my heart to go
[COLUMN 2]
with you ? I knew that request was not made
“lightly, or unadvisedly,” and at that awfully
grand moment of my life, when about to
pass into the womb of waters it felt so sweet to
have something of my own, on which to press
even a finger, that I assented and we two
entered the waters of baptism together.  This
is the scene that memory holds up to me this
night; and all is as vivid to my mind, as when
it actually took place.  Every word, every
look,the whole scene is as it were photographed
upon my heart and brain, never to be erased.
	An American Elder administered the rite of
baptism by immersion, we were verily buried
in the liquid grave, and came forth most cer-
tainly to a new life, temporally, spiritually and
eternally!  Then appeared the Holocaust,
but strength was given, the sacrifice was laid
upon the altar!  and the ordeal was passed!
Thirty-two years this day have revolved over
me since these scenes were enacted, during
which I have passed the “changes and chances”
that inevitably follow:  dark days, privations,
bereavements, sickness almost unto death, and
all the ordeals that a true Latter-day Saint has
to pass through.  Yet I have never seen the
first moment, that I regretted the step I then
took or wished that I could recall the act, or go
back to my former state or associations. My
former life had decidedly been a happy and a
prosperous one, yet through all there was a
vacuum, but through all the reverse of scenes
described above, I have never felt a vacuum!
even when I could not help suffering under
reverses, still there was no sigh, no groan of
regret, or the least desire to return.  The
language of my soul was on!  on!  there is sun-
shine behind this cloud.  I felt a power sus-
taining me, softening the rough path to me,
raising up friends to comfort and support me,
even to a romance; I met them on the ship, on
the steamer, in the encampments, crossing the
wild prairies, met them in the city, they walked
and talked with me, comforted and invigorated
my weakened system, and were to me as “An
angel in the way.” If one was taken, another
came to supply the vacant place, and so life
progressed till like a child learning to walk,—
I walked out of "“leading strings,” and felt I
could stand alone with my God!  Death took
some of the most efficient, but I grasped “the
rod of iron,” and found I was “coming up from
the wilderness leaning on the arm of the
Beloved.” Him, whose name I took upon me
at the waters of baptism, and hence all was
well—is well to-day.  The kind and loving
voices of other days are away in the eternities;
but still kind friends are around me; and I am
happy and contented.  I have grown out of
babyhood, childhood, and youth, and have at-
tained a degree of maturity, being thirty-
two years old at six o’clock this evening
in the Church of Jesus Christ, and the
embryo kingdom of God upon the earth.
I rejoice in this grand Latter-day work,
when “all things shall be gathered in
one.” “One Lord, one faith, one baptism.”
The Lord said, “gather me together a people
who have made a covenant with me,
by sacrifice.” Yes, sacrifice is the sign of the
covenant, but “the oil of gladness” is ever
round, and about the altar—and the Spirit of
the living God sustains and animates the votary
of Latter-days. There is through all, a peace,
joy, a satisfaction that the religions of the
world cannot give, or their recipients enjoy.
Many that have come into the Church poor, 
h
"ave become rich, but if they still retain their
"first love” of the Gospel of Christ, they would
lay all down as dust on the balance, if such
became an impediment in their path to the
eternal riches promised the faithful, faithful
even unto the end—even unto death.
	This is my testimony living or dying.  This
is the language of my heart, and brain.  I
have tried to be an apt pupil in the school of the
Lord, for verily “Mormonism” is the school
of the Lord, in which all are prepared for that
higher school, into which all will be received
who can present credentials that will procure
for them the higher forms of the House of
God, which is eternal in the Heavens.
	Let us as Latter-day Saints, walk cautiously,
quietly, calmly, with our eyes lifted up above
the riches of the earth, which perish even in
the using; that when the summons arrives for
our departure, we may feel ready, and the
voice of our heart exclaim Gloria in Excelsia
Dei.


