IN ANSWER.

	I should like to dispel the veil of darkness
from our sister's eyes, (Mrs. Scott,) and ask
questions in a kindly manner, in relation to
those passages of Scripture which I quoted, and
by the light of the Holy Spirit answer in
truth.
	Did Mr. Alexander Campbell preach the
same Gospel in every respect that the Apostle
did, that laid such an injunction on his words?
"Though an angel from heaven preach any
other Gospel than that we have preached let
him be accursed." Though Mr.  Campbell
quoted the same words he had no authority to
administer in the ordinances of that Gospel.
although he believed it was right to immerse
in water to wash away the sin of the believer
that they might be brought forth to newness
of life.  Yet he was not called of God as was
Aaron, and the Bible says, no man taketh this
honor to himself.  Then I ask how could a
person be cursed for not believing his message,
he made no profession to this effect of being
called by God, or set apart by one having
authority.  When ever God had a particular
work to do or dispensation to bring about, He
said, "I will do nothing except I reveal it to
my servants the prophets." The world deride
revelation, and prophets.  How then can they
enlighten the people, seeing they grope in the
dark.  The Holy Ghost will bring all things to
our remembrance, things past, present and to
come; then will we know of the doctrine
whether it be of God or man.  Now let us ex-
amine Scripture, and try to learn the true and
everlasting Gospel as preached by the Savior
and his Apostles.  Just before our Savior
ascended into heaven, after his resurrection
from the dead, He gave his Apostles this com-
mission, "Go ye into all the world and preach
the Gospel to every creature, he that believeth
and is baptized shall be saved, and he that
believeth not shall be damned," and these signs
shall  follow them that believe, in my name they
shall cast out devils, speak with new tongues,
lay hands on the sick and they shall recover."
This is positive language.  They had the power
and authority, and signs followed their preach-
ing.  "And they went forth, and preached
every where, the Lord working with them , and
confirming the word with signs following; St.
Mark, last chapter.  "God is the same yester-
day to-day and forever, God changes not, his
word neither his Gospel."
	Did these signs follow Campbell's preaching?
If not, the word he preached was to those who
heard, a dead letter, and not confirmed.  "For
our Gospel cam not unto you in word only
but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and
in much assurance."  First Epistle of Paul to
Thes. 1st, chapter 5th verse.  I will also quote
second E. 1st ch. 7th verse,"And to you who are
troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus
shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty 
angels, in flaming fire taking vengeance on
them that know not God, and that obey not
the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ."  Please
read all the Epistle through, these words are
referring to the last days of out time.  Then is
it not of the greatest importance that we obey
the true Gospel? Which says "there is but one
faith, one Lord, and one baptism." "We must
earnestly contend for the faith once delivered
to the saints."  And as soon as we admit two
or more different doctrines, we lay a foundation
for infidelity, for that would make God the
Author of confusion and discord.
	Please read 1st Cor. 12 chapter.  This gives
the true order of the Church; that there should
be gifts, apostles, pastors, teachers, perfectly 
governed, and established without fault and 
schism; all must be of the same heart, and
mind, in perfect harmony with the Savior's
teachings, and it is so plain that a wayfarring
man though a fool need not err therein.  Now
I do know this is the true Gospel, to be bap-
tized, by one having authority, for the remis-
sion of my sins, go down into the water with
him as the Eunuch did; when I have done
this, refrain from doing wrong, by that grace 
which I have received; have hands laid on my
head, that the Holy Ghost may be manifested
to lead me into all truth, according to the
pattern in holy writ.  "And when Paul had laid
his hands upon them the Holy Ghost came on
them, and they spake with tongues and pro-
phesied." Now Daniel saw a kingdom estab-
lished on the earth.  "Now I am come to make
thee understand what shall befall thy people
in the latter-days, for yet the vision is for many
days."  14th verse.
	Chapter 10, but before this two chapters of
Daniel when interpreting the King's dream
which portrayed the setting up, and tearing
down of earthly kingdoms.    "The God of
Heaven set up his kingdom, (44th verse,) which
shall never be destroyed, and the kingdom
shall not be left to other people, but it shall
break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms
and it shall stand forever."  "For the earth
shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory
of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea."
	Now I will ask has a kingdom ever been set

up by any people, that has brought all the
powers of the earth into subjection to its rule,
and government? 14th chapter 6th verse Rev.
"And I saw another angel fly in the midst of
heaven, having the everlasting  Gospel, were put to 
death, and destroyed.  Therefore the Gospel
has not been on the earth since the days of the
former-day Saints.  Joseph Smith, a young man
fourteen years of age, attended several meetings
of different belief, and being in doubt which
was right, he opened the Bible, and read James
1st chapter 5th verse.  Ïf any lack wisdom, let
him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally
and upbraideth not;  and it shall be given
him.   But let him ask in faith;  nothing
wavering."
	My dear Sister, is not this the right way for 
you and I to find the truth?  He immediately 
retired to a secret place, and asked the Lord 
to tell him which of all these different sects
was right; he though that perhaps one might
be right, and as he was praying a personage, a
halo of light surrounding him stood before him,
and told him that none of them were true, and
for him to join none of them.  But in the own
due time of the Lord He would make known 
to him the true and everlasting Gospel, he
also told him about the Book of Mormon, be-
ing a history of the American Indians, and
he was shown the place where it was buried;
he obtained and translated it, and one of the
witnesses that saw the plates on which it was
engraved in living.  David Whitmer; if you
will read his testimony in the preface of the
Book.  And now concerning the reading of
which you speak.  To read we must under-
stand, it was the higher law they were com-
manded to keep, that is the Celestial Marriage.
"What God put together let no man put 
asunder."  "And let them marry in the Lord."
Let us see if David, and Solomon kept this
law sacred.  David took Uriah's wife, and 
Nathan the Prophet reproved him but those he
took lawfully he gave to him, he sinned by not 
keeping the law.  How about Solomon? he took
wives of heathen parents and worshiped their
gods, in this he sinned.  He must have neg-
gected his own true and faithful wives or they
would not have cried to the Lord.
	For behold, thus saith the Lord. this people
begin to wax in iniquity, they understand not
the Scriptures for they seek to excuse them-
selves in committing whoredoms because of the
things which were written concerning David,
and Solomon his son.  They truly had many
wives, and concubines which was displeasing 
to the Lord.  It must have been the way they
acted, and transgresses by doing so.  Therefore
He forbade them to marry more than one.
For the Lord savs that whoredoms are abom-
inations and He delighteth in the chast-
ity of woman.  The fault is laid to the 
husband, and that they should not com-
mit whoredom like unto them of old, etc.
Now if the sin consisted in marrying plural
wives, why did Nathan give them in  marriage?
And the wives of these men were called the 
fair daughters, and God heard their prayers
against the wickedness of their husbands. He
said, "If I will command my people," He could
command them to have but one, or more if He
chose.  And they of this class were the men
that held the holy Priesthood, and the oracles
of God.  He has the greatest right to give his
law or commands for men to obey, and He
should be obeyed rather than man, and in all
ages of the world God's laws have come in con-
tact with the traditional man made law, the law
of the land.  The self righteous Jews could not
conform to the law of Christ.  And in our day
the over righteous cannot see the kingdom of
heaven which is established on the earth, for
the salvation of every person who will receive
it.  "Glad tidings of great joy which shall be
to all the people."  "Come unto mr all ye
ends of the earth, and be ye saved."
	The second coming of our Savior will be
over-looked by the Gentile nation, as was his
first by the Jews.
	From a well wisher,
