BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Among the many pleasing incidents within
my recollection, was the sight of a large Flat-
boat loaded with English Saints, who were
obliged to leave the steamer at Keokuck, in
consequence of low water. They were singing
the sweet songs of Zion, as they came up the
river at the close of the day, and landed near
the Prophet's house, where stood scores of the
Saints; also many outsiders had gathered there,
and Joseph too, who welcomed them to Zion.
	At another time the "Maid of Iowa," in com-
mand of Capt. Dan Jones, brought a company
of two hundred and fifty Saints from New
Orleans, who, after unlooked for circumstances,
causing a tedious journey of five weeks, arrived
safely at Nauvoo, where Joseph and hundreds
of the Saints were on the shore waiting to greet
them with a warm and hearty welcome. A
short but interesting account of their eventful
voyage was given by Sister Priscilla M.
Staines, in the "Women of Mormondom." She
was one of the passengers and happened to be
an instrument in the hands of Providence to
give the alarm of fire, or the boat would soon
have been in flames. This was at Memphis,
Tenn. Some villain placed a half consumed
cigar under a straw mattress, and other bed-
ding that had been laid out of the ladies cabin
to air.
	They were mobbed and insulted at nearly
every place where they stopped, by the citizens
along the river. They were not persecuted for
polygamy—it was not upon those grounds that
mobs collected and threw "stones through the
cabin windows, smashing the glass and sash,
and jeopardizing the lives of the passengers,"
for they had not heard of polygamy being
practiced by the "Mormons," but they were
treated more barbarously than foreign emi-
grants are treated to-day. So we know that
Polygamy is only an excuse, and a most flimsy
one too. This was their first experience in
America, our boasted land of liberty- a refuge
and home for the oppressed of all nations.
Mobbing peaceful emigrants for nothing else,
only that they were "Mormons.
	During the winter of 1843, there were plenty
of parties and balls, and many were held at
the Mansion. The last one that I attended
there that winter, was on Christmas Eve.
Some of the young gentlemen got up a series
of dancing parties, to be held at the Mansion
once a week. My brother William put his
name down before asking father’s permission,
and when questioned about it made him
believe that he must pay the money for himself
and lady, whether he went or not, and that he
could not honorably withdraw from it. He
carried the day, but I had to stay at home, as
my father had been warned by the Prophet to
keep his daughter away from there, because of
the blacklegs and certain ones of questionable
character who attended there. His wife Emma
had become the ruling spirit, and money had
become her God. I did not betray William,
but I felt quite sore over it, and thought it a
very unkind act in father to allow him to go
and enjoy the dance unrestrained with others
of my companions, and fetter me down, for no
girl loved dancing better than I did, and I
really felt that it was too much to bear. It
made the dull school still more dull, and like
a wild bird I longed for the freedom that was
denied me; and thought myself a much abused
child, and that it was pardonable if I did mur-
mur. I imagined that my happiness was all
over, and brooded over the sad memories of
sweet departed joys and all manner of future
woes, which (by the by) were of short dura-
tion, my bump of hope being too large to ad-
mit of my remaining long under the clouds;
besides my father was very kind and indulgen

[Column 2]
in other ways, and always took me with him,
when mother could not go, and it was not a
very long time before I became satisfied that I
was blessed in being under the control of so
good and wise a parent, who had taken coun-
sel and thus saved me from evils, which some
others in their youth and inexperience, were
exposed to, though they thought no evil. Yet
the busy tongue of scandal did not spare
them.
	A moral may be drawn from this truthful
story. "Children obey thy parents," etc. And
also, “Have regard to thy name; for that shall
continue with you above a thousand great
treasures of gold." "A good life hath but few
days; but a good name endureth forever.”
	The first New Year's eve after the Prophet
moved into the Mansion, our choir, under the
leadership of Stephen Goddard, to which I be-
came a member some time previous, gave them
a serenade.
	We met at our usual place of practice, on
the hill near the Temple, and although the
night was unfavorable, being dark and rainy,
we, nothing daunted, started out between
twelve and one o'clock, we struck up and sang
the New Year's hymn. The inmates were
highly gratified, and the Prophet came out
and invited us to come in; but being late we
declined. After singing one or two Anthems
he pronounced his blessing upon the orchestra
and choir, which repaid the brethren and sisters
for all their trouble.
	William Cahoon, John Pack, Stephen Hale
and wives, William Pitt, William Clayton,
Jacob Hutchinson, James Standing and many
more, too numerous to mention, were members
of the choir, and most of the brethren belonged
to William Pitt's Brass Band. We enjoyed
together many happy seasons, though of short
duration.
	Our Music Hall was built one block east of
the Temple, but was not finished till after the
death of the Prophet. Previous to that we
held an occasional concert in the Masonic Hall,
which, according to history, was considered
"the most substantial and best finished Masonic
Temple in the Western States."
	We were not wanting for amusements, even
in the midst of some of the most trying scenes;
the Latter-day Saints seldom drooped or pined
for their [insert symbol]"Leeks and Onions," but adapted
themselves to circumstances with an excellent
grace.
	Our first dramatic entertainments were given
in the Nauvoo Masonic Hall- in the spring of
1844, under the direction of Thomas A. Lyne
and George J. Adams- the latter claiming
Heber C. Kimball as his father in the Gospel,
took up his abode with us whenever he came
to our city; was there during the summer of
1843, at which time, my father being absent
upon a mission, made it rather hard for my
mother to get along, as I went to school and
she was obliged to hire a woman to do the
work, her own health being very poor and her
baby sick, which he did not seem to realize as
he never offered any recompense. In the
spring of 1844, during the dramatic season, he
with his wife and sister staid with us, but my
father was at home which made quite a dif-
ference. I was just at the age to enjoy such
amusements, which made time pass very agre-
ably. Miss Adams was a fine young lady and
very gifted as an actress, in fact was quite a
star, though a new beginner like all the rest,
with the exception of Lyne, he spent much of
his time at our house, as they were old friends,
and he was a "Mormon." Mrs. Adams was a
dignified and quite a distinguished looking
woman, and made a fine appearance upon the
stage, but she played only one night—took the
part of the Countess in the "Orphan of Geneva,"
and thought herself so disguised that no one
would recognise her, but when she found that
she was known she could not be prevailed upon

			[Column 3]
to go on again, and as the play was to be re-
peated the next night, they were in a terrible
dilemma, not knowing what to do as we had
returned home, and it was then near midnight.
One of them proposed my taking the part,
(Adams or Lyne), and the women and all set
in flattering and teasing me to take it. But I
was a timid girl of fifteen and frightfully bash-
ful, and the idea of taking so dignified a part
was to my mind utterly absurd; having only
been upon the stage in two plays, first as one
of the virgins in "Pizarro" and another simple
part, but all my excuses were useless and I was
fairly pressed into service. Adams said en-
couragingly, "I'll help you out," and as Lyne
was leaving he said, "Now study the part over
good to night, and then retire and sleep on it,
and you’ll nearly know it in the morning;"
which direction I followed, and having a quick
memory was able to repeat every word at the
rehearsal, but when before an audience I was so
frightened that I remembered very little; my
wits nearly deserted me, but Adams was true
to his promise and by his readiness assisted me
to recover from my confusion. Though he was
never up in his own part, he was never at a
loss for a substitute in every emergency, but
which was anything but pleasing to those who
depended upon him for their cue. He was a
very good actor; and J. Hatch, a young Law-
yer- uncle to Pres. Abram Hactch of Heber
city, was also good as well as Amasa Lyman
and W. H. Folsom, and others. But no part
in “Pizarro’ was better played than was the
Priest, by Brigham Young. there was some
good acting done- some so life-like, that at
times nearly the whole audience would be af
fected to tears. Joseph did not try to hide his
feelings, but was seen to weep a number of
times. Among our best comedians was Hiram
B. Clawson, who I think, was the youngest of
of the boys, that was forty years ago; and
the scenes have been changing till but few
are now left who took part in the first drama-
tic entertainments held in our beautiful city
in 1845.
	On the 11th of May following, my brother
Wm. H. and Mary Davenport, were joined in
wedlock, by father at the house of Winsor P.
Lyons, and on the 13th he brought her home
to live with us.
	On the 17th, a national convention was
held, Joseph being candidate for the Presi-
dency. A great deal of enthusiasm was mani-
fested by the people, which was not confined
to our cities, but according to history, twenty-
seven states were represented." My father and
others of the Apostles were appointed to go East
to electioneer for General Joseph Smith.
			To be Continued.


﻿WOMAN Suffrage is the great moral and pol-
itical question of the nineteenth century.

	RECIPE FOR A HAPPY HOME.—Six things,
says Hamilton, are requisite to a happy home.
Integrity must be the architect, and tidiness
the upolsterer.  It must be warmed by aflec-
tion, and lighted with cheerfulness; and indus-
try must be the ventilator, renewing the atmos-
phere and bringing in fresh salubrity every
day; while over all a protecting canopy of
glory, and nothing will suffice except the bless-
ing of God.
	ELIZABETH, Queen of Roumania, says; “Co-
quetry is not always a bait; it is sometimes a
shield.  Forgiveness is almost indifference
while love lasts forgiveness is impossible. A
woman is stoned for an action which may be
committed by a man with perfect honor.
Women are bad through the fault of men. In
matters of science women are so much ac-
customed to be treated as if of no account, that
they mistrust the savans when they treat them
civilly.”


