EXPLANATORY LETTER.

			Salt Lake City, Sept. 1882.
MY DEAR MRS. SCOTT:
	I have conceived an earnest desire to write
you a private letter, thinking I cannot do jus-
tice to my feelings publicly. Being deeply
interested in you, and believing you to be
"honest in heart," my anxiety is great that you
may know and comprehend our religion as it
really is, in all its fulness and beauty.  Being
born and reared under the auspices thereof, I
can assure you that I have never heard a word
uttered, by way of counsel or instruction,
neither in public or private, by any of our
Elders or ministers, but has been calculated to
elevate and purify mankind, and can also
assure you my dear Mrs. Scott, that "Mormon-
ism" is a sure stepping stone, there is no danger
in that path, should you once make up your
mind to forsake the world and walk therein.
It will not endanger your health in  any way,
but will lead you on to life, life everlasting.
The angel whom John the Revelator saw, has
indeed flown through the midst of heaven, with
the Everlasting Gospel, and has delivered the
same to Joseph Smith, the unbelief of the world
to the contrary notwithstanding; and thousands
upon thousands can and do bear testimony to
that fact, by the gift and power of the Holy
Ghost, which was conferred upon them by the
laying on of hands after their baptism, by
those holding authority to administer the same,
Do you remember Jesus asked Peter who he,
Jesus, was, when Peter answered, "Thou art
the Christ the Son of the living God,"  then
Jesus said, "Blessed art thou Simon Barjona,
flesh and blood hath not revealed this unto
thee, but my Father who art in heaven and on
this rock, (the rock of revelation) will I build
my church, and the gates of hell shall not pre-
vail against it."  We claim to have that same
Gospel which Jesus taught, founded on revela-
tion, and should not dare teach any other, for
fear of coming under the curse.  One of the
greatest proofs we have of its being the same,
is that the signs do follow believers as they
did anciently.  Paul says "One Lord, one faith
and one baptism."  The gospel he preached
was faith, repentance and baptism, the laying
on of hands for the conferring of the gift of
the Holy Ghost, with these signs following be-
lievers.  "In my name they shall cast out
devils, speak with new tongues, lay hands on
the sick, and they shall recover, etc. Now!
We positively know, we have that same Gospel
Paul preached, because the same effects are
made manifest that were realized by believers
anciently.  I have seen the sick healed, through
the administration of the Elders, when death
had laid hold upon them, have heard speaking
in tongues, and the interpretation thereof.
Now, there are none of the various sects of the
day who make such professions, therefore can-
not consistently lay claim to preaching the
Gospel taught by Jesus and his Apostles.  If
you will read the 3d chapter of 2nd Timothy,
you will find a perfect descripton of the state of
affairs, existing at the present day.  Should
you repent and be baptized and have hands
laid upon you for the reception of the Holy
Ghost, by those having authority, that Spirit
would reveal unto you, and make plain every
principle of our religion, Celestial marriage
included.  
	I am not surprised that the chapter you
mention, in the Book of Mormon, should puzzle
you.  Yet it seems to me that the clause.  "But 
if I will."  saith the Lord, "raise up seed unto
me, I will command my people," settles the
whole question, however, that is not the most
profitable subject for you to study.  The first
principles of the Gospel should engage your
whole attention at present.  If you can be con-
vinced that God has spoken from the heavens,

[Column 2]
all else will become plain and simple to your
understanding.
	From the account we have of Philip and
the Eunuch the first principles only were
taught.  Let us take up these and then go on
unto perfection.
	I wish to correct you on one point, wherein
you sadly misjudge us as a people, we do not
consider all wicked who are not members of
our church.  We know there are thousands,
not of us, who are honest, upright people,
doing as well as they know how, according
to the light which they possess.  Such are not
included, when we speak of the wicked being
vexed.  But we do expect that many will
flock to Zion (this people) when God's judg-
ments are stalking abroad in the earth, this be-
ing the only place of safety, and this the only
people who will not be at war one with another.
Understanding me as you did, you could not
think otherwise, than that we are an unjust,
illiberal people,when exactly the opposite is the
case. I would shudder at the thought of any
suffering, who did not justly, truly merit it,
even then my sympathies would be aroused,
although knowing it to be just.  You desire
that faith in God that your children have in
you. That is exactly the faith possessed by
the Latter-day Saints.  We fear no evil that
threatens us as a people, for we know that God
rules, that He holds the destinies of nations in
his hands, and He will take care of his Saints
lor He has declared that to be his business.
I for one can assure you, without a doubt,
that you will find that faith you seek, by yield-
ing obedience to this Gospel, for it really does
make us look up, and fills our hearts and lives
full of melody, thanksgiving and love. Why,
there are no other people who know how to
love as we do.
I will, tell you, as a proof of the power and
efficacy of this Gospel over the lives of the
people, that it is a rare thing to find a dis-
honest, wicked young person, among the child-
ren of the Saints, as our statistics will show. I
would not fear receiving an insult from a Lat-
ter-day Saint, should I meet him a thousand
miles from every other human being.  In fact
I never heard of such a thing happening unless
it was from an apostate in spirit.  No other
Church could say the earac of all its members.
Praying that God will inspiro you with his
Spirit, that you may comprehend the things of
bis kingdom, and that I shall one day meet
you in the “valleys of the mountains,” I
remain your true friend and well-wisher.
Mary A. Freeze.


