GRAND RALLY OF THE PEOPLE’S.
PARTY.
	Saturday evening, November 4, there was a
ratification meeting of the People’s Party at
the Theatre in this city.  All day the stars and
stripes had been floating to the breeze from the
roof of the Theatre, the dome of the City Hall,
and from the public builidngs.  Saturday, 6
o’clock p. m., according to previous arrangement
a procession formed in front of the Theatre, and
marched through the principal streets of the
city, several bands of music playing patriotic
airs, enlivening the scene; carriages filled with
prominent members of the People’s Party, Com-
mittees etc.,and a host of citizens on foot bearing
torchlights made a glittering parade, cheers were
given at several points on the way for Hon.
John T. Caine, the people's nominee.
	At 7 o’clock the procession had returned to the
Theatre.  Crowds poured into the house and in
a few minutes there was scarcely standing room.
Outside a multitude was gathered unable to gain
admittance.  It was too cold to hold an out-door
meeting as had been anticipated.  The interior
of the building was tastefully draped with the
stars and stripes and brilliantly lighted.  On the
platform were many ladies and gentlemen,
editors reporters, etc., as well as Territorial and
County Central Committees and the Mayor and
city officers.  Hon. John Sharp, Chairman Ter.
Cm. C m., proposed Mayer Jennings as Chair
man of the meeting, the motion was carried
unanimously.
	Mayor Jennings was escorted to the front, and
stepping f rward said:  Ladies and gentlemen,
allow me to thank you for the honor conferred on
me in appointing me to occupy the chair this
evening.  I thank you and will try to fill the
position.  
	Hon. D O. Calder nominated Hon. James
Sharp as First-Vice President; the nomination
was unanimously sustained.
 A. M. Cannon, Esq , nominated Judge A.
Miner as Second Vice President of the meeting;
unanimously sustained.
 S. W. Darke, Esq., nominated H. M. Wells, as
Secretary; also sustained.
S. H, Hill, Esq., nominated R. W. Sloan as
Assistant Secretary of the meeting; sustained.
Mayor Jennings then stepped forward and
said:  I will now introduce to you our friend and
fellow-citizen, Hon. John T. Caine (loud ap-
plause)'the nominee for Delegate to Congress.
Mayor Jennings then Introduced to the audi-
ence Mr. H. M. Wells, who read the “Declara-
tion of Principles” of the People’s Party.  Hon
John T. Caine was the first speaker, followed by
S. R. Thurman of Lehi, F. S. Richards of Og-
den , Dr. J. M. Benedict of Salt Lake and Judge
Dusenburry, of Provo.
	J. F. Wells, Esq., then moved that the
declaration of principles that had been read, be
adopted, that the speakers be tendered a vote of
thanks and the nomination of John T. Caine be
ratified. The motion was carried unanimhusly
the audience simultaneously giving three hearty
rounds of applause.  When silence had been re-
stored, Hon. James Sharp called for three cheers,
for the People’s candidate and the “hip, hip,
hurrah! was enthusiastically given.
Mr. Caine having returned thanks to the
people for their confidence and sympathy, and
to the speakers for their presence that evening
to those who had accompanied him throughout
the campaign, the bands and all who had helped
to make the meeting a success, the immense
audience dispersed.
	We reproduce the speeches made by the
younger speakers, which we consider specially
apropos, and are sorry we have not space for all
as published in the dally papers.
S. R. THURMAN. 
	We are called upon in the name of the Great
Jehovah and the continental congress to sur-
render up Ticonderoga.  In the name of the
Great Jehovah and the Constitution of our coun-
try, we decline to surrender.  (Applause.)  They
say, “something has happened in the Territory,
the People’s Party are crying, ‘What shall we
do to be saved ?” They tell us to repent and
come out from them.  We will come out, on the
7th of November, and elect the Hon. John T.
Caine. These are reasons why we cannot sur-
render the fort.  (Applause.)
	Let us recur to  fundamental principles.  You
have heard that our forefarthers enunciated the
principles that all men are created free and
equal; they did not limit the application, no
matter who the man might be, whether Chris-
tian or Mohammedan, whether Jew or Gentile,
heathen or infidel, the principle was universal
in its application, no matter from what land he
comes; whether from the legioned castles of
Europe, the burning sands of Arabia, the king-
doms of the Orientals, or the wave-washed
islands of the sea, the principle was with them
as universal as the dominion of Jehovah. They
also enunciated the idea that liberty can only
exist where the people governed participate in
its administration of government.  (Applause.)
On this foundation they reared the temple of
liberty, the grandest and most glorious structure
the world has ever witnessed.  (Applause.)
The People’s Party are accused of disloyalty.
When did we have our last revolution?  When
did we rebel against the national government?
When did we unfurl to the breeze any other flag
than the stars and stripes? (Applause.) The
People’s Party were the first to unfurl the flag
of our country on the spot where we stand.
They were the first to unfarl it on the Pacific
Coast—they did to in the name of the govern-
ment of the United States.  (Applause.) I
maintain that any party who seeks to establish
in the heart of the United States any other than
a republican lorm of government, is disloyal to
American institutions.  The Liberal Party are
trying to-day to secure for the people of this Ter-
ritory a government that does not contain one
element of republicanism; a government similar
in every respect to the one against which our
forefathers contended.  Hence that party are
disloyal.  (Applause.)
	In converstaion with a prominent Liberal a
few days ago, I asked him upon what principle
he justified the executive of this Territory in
relation to the certificate business.  He said, on
the principle that the end justified the means.  
That is, the right of a man to trample upon
the law, and disregard it whenever he sees fit,
to accomplish his ends.  I repudiate such a doc-
trine as monstrous in a republican government.
(Applause.) Let this principle be perpetuated
and established, and what will be the result?
Crash after crash will be heard as the bulwarks
of freedom give way; anarchy would wave her
sceptre over the land, and despotism would shout
in hellish triumph amid the crumbling ruins.
(Loud applause.  It would be the end of free
government and the destruction of liberty, yet
these are the principles of the Liberal Party.  In
speaking of the Party, of course I do not mean
all.  Many of them are good and patriotic men,
friends whom I esteem, but I speak of the ring
that manipulates and controls the party.  You
have been no doubt told that if you voted the
Liberal ticket, you will get a State government
in sixty days.  In the language of Cassius: “In
the name of all the gods at once, upon what meat
doth this our Caesar feed, that he is grown so
great?” (Loud applause.)  I believe that the
object of the Liberal Party is and has been to
drive the majority of the people of Utah into re-
bellion and hostility. The very platform they
have adopted is intended to insu t and enrage
the people.  They exhausted their fund of abu-
sive expressions, and closed for want of vitupei-
ative language.  It reminds me of the boy build-
ing a playhouse of mud; a preacher asked him
what he was doing.  He said he was building a
church.  The preacher asked him why he didn’t
make a preacher and put in his church. The
boy replied that he didn’t have any more mud.
(Laughter.) The Liberals quit for want of mud.
(Renewed laughter.)
Let us vote for the man who stands on princi-
ple, regardless of who or what he is.  Thank you
ladits and gentlemen for your attention. (Ap-
plause.)
F. S. RICHARDS, ESQ.,
Upon stepping forward, was received with loud
applause. He commenced by referring to the
rights guaranteed to all citizens by the Constitu-
tion of this country.  He alluded to the right of
trial by jury; to the fact that no bill of attainder
or ex post facto law should be passed; that no
person should be obliged to testify against him-
self.  These were some of the bulwarks that
were thrown around the people who lived under
this free government.  He would ask, were the
citizens of the Territory of Utah enjoying these
privileges ? He was told that there existed here
in the Territory of Utah thousands of men and
women who had been illegally deprived of one of
the most sacred of privileges—the right to cast
their vote for the men of their choice.  (Ap-
plause.)  That grand tribunal, the Supreme
Court of the Republic, had said that an in-
dividual who is deprived of his civil lights is
punished by reason of that deprivation. Now,
how was it that, under this constitutional guar-
antee, the people of Utah are punished for some
supposed offence?  Had they been convicted of
that offence?  If not, then they had been pun-
ished without the sacred constitutional privilege
of appearing before a jury and having their guilt
or innocence determined. (Applause.) Further
than this, many of them were not only punished
upon mere suspicion, and without having been
proven guilty, but they were punished in cases
where It would be impossible for the Govern-
ment to convict.  The same legislative power
that had passed the law to which he was now
referring, had provided that unless a prosecution
was brought within three years after the offence,
no conviction could be had.  Indeed, there were
in the Territory of Utah thousands of men and
women who, if they were to go to the District
Attorney and furnish him proof of the commis-
sion of the offence he could not convict, and yet
they were punished.  Further than this, there
were many individuals who had never violated
this law, and still they were deprived of the
sacred privilege of the franchise.  Men and
women, before there was a law existing in this
country regarding polygamy, entered into that
marriage relation, and although there never had
been a day nor on hour when the hand of the


[Column 1]
﻿aw could seize upon them, yet they were
unpunished. There were women here who never
violated the law—because prior to March, 1882
there was no penalty attached to the violation
of this law by the woman—the penalty attached
the men only and they only were guilty—and
yet those women were punisehd. "Who is respon-
sible for the idea that this is the proper construc-
tion of the law? Who is it that says it is right
to tear down those bulwarks that have been
thrown up by the Constitution?" He answered,
"it is the "Liberal" party of the Territory of
Utah," (great applause); In proof of this he
would read the ninth and tenth planks in the
"Liberal" platform. These sections he con-
tended were endorsements of the construction
that had been put upon the law, and for this he
branded the 'Liberal' party as being disloyal
(Applause,) and as seeking to subvert the funda-
mental principles of the government under
which we live. (Renewed applause.) Mr. Rich-
ards then alluded to the rule of construction ap-
plied to laws and showed that the legislative
body must be supposed to intend to confine a
statute within constitutional limits, because in
that consists its vitality, and outside of these
limits it is dead, imbibing the antidote poison of
unconstitutionality that if a constitutional con-
struction can be placed upon it, it must be so
applied and contended that the law of March,
1882, as it had been construed, by the "Liberal"
party, not as enacted by Congress—disfranchised
men and women illegally and unconstitution-
ally, and therefore he branded that party as dis-
loyal by seeking to make it appear that Congress
had violated the Constitution. (Applause.) He
referred briefly to the pretended moral aspect of
the bill, and related an anecdote of an Indian
who, by mischance, cut his dog's tail off behind
the ears and exclaimed, ugh! heap a too short
to illustrate the point that the tail had come
short of what was designed by the "Liberal"
party, because it did not say "in the marriage
relation." (Laughter and applause.) At first it
reached the whole of the people in this Territory.
Any man cohabiting with more than one woman
was liable to lose his franchise and the right to
hold office. But the "Liberals" undertook to
lengthen it out by adding to it. However, the
longer they made it the shorter it became, but
when they got through with doctoring the legis-
lation it was entirely too short to reach the
"Liberal" party. (Laughter.) Now it covered
thoroughly the People's Party, but the "Liberal"
party was left out in the cold. In other words,
this great moral measure upon which they (the
"Liberal" party) prided themselves, and for
which they rendered up everlasting gratitude—
this great moral measure permitted men and
women who had descended to the lowest depths
of degradation to go to the ballot box and cast
their votes, while honest, virtuous men and
women of the People's Party were excluded
because of the "marriage relation." (Applause.)
He was glad they had extended the bill, he was
glad of the distinction they had made, because
it placed the People's Party on a plane so high,
that those other people (the "Liberal" party)
would never, by any ladder they could construct,
be able to reach it. (Applause.) "In the dis-
franchisement of this people we see to-day, one
of the most sublime instances of patriotism that
can be found in the American Republic. (Loud
applause.) Here are thousands of people un-
justly, illegally, unconstitutionally, deprived of
the dearest and most sacred rights of American
citizens, and yet they humbly, meekly and
peaceably submit to this indignity until, in the
due time of Almighty God, the supreme tribunal
of the Republic shall restore to them their sacred
rights." (Prolonged and vigorous applause,
Was there, he asked, in) the annals of history

[Column 2]
ancient or modern, frm the days of Adam until
now, a grander or more sublime exhibition of
patriotism than this? He answered, No. In
conclusion Mr. Richards denounced the "Lib-
erals" for the construction they had put upon
this act of Congress, and charged them with
tearing away the very corner stones of the tem-
ple of liberty that were cemented by the blood
of our ancestors. (Applause.) He briefly allud-
ed to the tactics of the "Liberal" party, especial-
ly to P. T. Van Zile's promise that if the people
would elect him he would secure statehood for
the Territory in sixty days, and if not elected,
that Utah would get a Legislative Commission,
and showed the inconcistency of these promises,
in view of the fact that the platform in which
the "Liberal" candidate stood was opposed to
Utah's statehood and was in favor of the Legis-
lative Commission. He asked whether, when
Utah needed a representative who would be as
firm as a pillar of adamant, to withstand the
storm of hatred raging against her, we should
send a man who would be swayed by every
breath of prejudice; when she now needed an
able defender, should we send a vindictive pros-
ecutor? When she needed a wise and sympa-
thetic friend, whose heart would beat with joy
at her success or sink with sadness at her sorrow,
should we send a cruel and relentless foe, who
would rejoice to see her deprived of the last ves-
tige of liberty? His vote on the 7th of Novem-
ber would answer "No," because in the Hon.
John T. Caine he saw the wise friend, the able
advocate and the pillar of adamant. Mr. Rich-
ards retired to his seat amid prolonged ap-
plaus.


