NOTES FROM MORGAN.
 Since the storms subsided and fine weather
set in, the potato crop and the threshing of
grain has kept men women and children very
busy, but not so much so but we could attend
to our Relief Societies and Y. L. M. I. Con-
ferences and enjoy them. The sight of so many
persons leaving their daily labors, to meet to-
gether to express their gratitude to their
Maker, and unite their efforts  to benefit each
other and mankind at large, is one that ever
fills my soul with emotions easier understood
than expressed.
	Of course you know that it took some power-
ful argument and reasoning, to call the ladies
of Morgan, from the work-stoves, and work-
baskets, to the stage of political lore; our lords
of creation having carried on things in a man-
ner so straight-forward and conscientious, we
did not think it necessary for us to mix up with
politics. However we find to-day that we have
not awakened to our sense of need and duty
one hour too soon; as the opposing element
which has been smouldering for years in our
large cities, is now assuming a flare up, which
has sent its crackling sparks to adjoining settle-
ments. When I talk of opposing element, I
mean those discontented parties who are never
happy only in their endeavors to make others
miserable, and who would scarcely appreciate
wealth unless acquired at the detriment of
others. For a week past posters have been put
up in the neighborhood of our R. R. Station,
where all our commerce also lies, to notify the
public, that Judge Van Zile, and other gentle-
men, would visit this our country seat, for a
grand rally of the Liberal forces, and to lay
before the people the platform adopted by their 
Party. Thursday morning, the 25th inst. as
per announcement, Messrs. Van Zile, Hollister,
and others were met at Weber Station, on their
return from Coalville, by Registrars Peterson
and Shurtliff, and one or two other parties;
but the assemblage did not appear large
enough, and although invited to partake of a
breakfast prepared in their honor, the Liberal
visitors decided to proceed to Ogden for break-
fast, but the blame will not lie at their door.
The use of the school, house had been granted
them, in which to rally, and deliver their pat-
riotic (?) speeches; but after waiting in vain
for an audience, they adjourned to the R. R.
Station, where a few railway employers swelled
their numbers. Mr. Van Zile relieved himself
of some of his spleen, by the delivery of his
usual bosh, viz., accusing religious authority,
or the priesthood for everything that did not
suit him, especially the absence of an audience
to listen to his oratory (?). So much for the
consistency and liberality of the Liberal
Party, and the good hard common sense of the
Morganites for not choosing to hear themselves
abused.
	To-day, when as per announcement the
Hon. John T. Caine, S. R. Thurman, Judge
Dusenberry and James Sharp, arrived they
were met by many of our prominent ladies and
gentlemen, and were escorted to South Morgan
preceded by D. Bull’s Brass Band. After
partaking of dinner, those gentlemen repaired
to the school house, which was crowded to
suffocation. The people felt amply repaid for
leaving the potato fields and threshing ma-
chines, to hear the able, eloquent and patriotic
speeches delivered by the above named gentle-
men. Indeed it was a feast fit for intellectual
kings and queens, that exposition of good
sound arguments and noble principles, couched
in terms that displayed patriotic enthusiasm
and astounding oratorial ability. The Brass
Band discoursed lively music and the audience
demonstrated their appreciation by loud cheers
and applause.
	A light was beaming on the countenance of
all, the light of the fire which burned in the
bosoms of the heroic Fathers of 1776. May
that fire spread until it fills the universe is the
wish of your humble servant,
					E. C. E. Francis.
Oct. 26, 1882.


Gov. St. John says: Men say it will degrade
woman to vote, but they can see her wash all
day to support a vagabond husband who sells
his vote for a glass of whisky, and never think
of her degradation.—Ex.

	A SIXTEENTH amendment is pending in the
United States Congress, and will be acted upon
the coming session. The following gentlemen,
candidates for Congress, are favorable to it, and
should receive the support of every suffragist,
Hon. G. S. Orth, Hon. R. B. F. Pierce, Hon.
Stanton J. Peelle and Col. Mark L. DeMotte.
A correspondent says, "I am a Democrat, but
Col. DeMotte will get my ballot, because he is
a prohibitionist, a suffragist and a Christian
gentleman." Voters! break away from party
rings and send men to Congress who represent
the best principles.—Ex.


