HOME AFFAIRS.

	OMAHA 7. Telegraphic dispatches say, "The
constitutional amendment relative to woman
suffrage, has been defeated by a large majority."
We are very sorry for Nebraska, and had hoped
to see the amendment passed this year, but "If
at first you don't succeed, Try, Try, again."
	ON Thursday, accompanied by our daughter
Louie we left Salt Lake with Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, to visit Wasatch Stake, attend Women's
Conferences and go through the country. We
returned on Monday, having visited Heber City,
Midway, Charleston, Wallsburg and Timpanogas
and attended eight meetings; and enjoyed our
visit very much.
	THE Lecture Committee for the Y. L. M. I.
A. Salt Lake Stake, report that they are prepared
to furnish lecturers for the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations. This is the season when the evenings
are sufficiently long to devote an hour at least,
to the pursuit of knowledge. Inquire at this
office or by letter to the editor, and the answer
will be promptly given or sent.
	MRS. Elizabeth Lisle Saxon, of New Orleans is
in the City. She comes as a special correspond-
ent of the Times-Democrat New Orleans, and
also the Pelladelphia Times. The lady has been
widely and favorably known as a poet and
novelist, and more recently as a lecturer and
suffragist. She is a fluent and rapid speaker,
pleasing in her address and especially attractive
on the platform. She has made forty-seven
public addresses in the state of Nebraska, since
the 3d. of October, in the interest of the amend-
ment granting suffrage to women. The amend-
ment was lost, but the women of Nebraska are
not discouraged. Mrs. Saxon expects to give 
one or two public lectures during her sojourn
in our city. The time and place as well as the
subject of her lecture, will be announced through
the papers. We cordially welcome Mrs. Saxon
to our delightful valley, and trust she will have
a good opportunity of seeing the happy home

[Column 2]
of the "Mormons," and believe that she will have
the courage simply to tell the truth regardless of
public opinion.
	ON Saturday, Nov. 4, we had the pleasure of
visiting Sandy, in company with Sisters E. R.
S. Smith and M. I Horne. A Relief Society
was organized, by Counselor Andrew Olsen Gel-
tes, assisted by Mrs. E. R. S. Smith. Mrs. Wil.
helmina Olsen, President; Mrs. Harriet Wilson
and Catharine Lewis, Counselors; Mrs. Mary E.
Neff,Secretary; Matilda Christophoson Assistant
Secretary; Ingrea Geltea, Treasurer. Twenty
members enrolled.
	Same day, 2 o'clock p. m , meeting was held,
and a Primary Association was organized, Sister
E. R. S. Smith organizing. The children
were quiet and orderly, and their exercises
were well rendered. Miss Maria Lewis
was elected President, Annie Ostler and
Maggie Olsen, Counselors, Joseph Maginnis and
James Osterman, Secretaries; and Mary Jane
Lewis Treasurer. Fifty-five members enrolled.
The sisters gave much good instruction and all
felt edified.
	"PLURAL MARRIAGE' as Taught by the Pro
phet Joseph," is the significant title of a book
just out, from the pen of Helen Mar Whitney,
already favorably known as a writer through her
contributions to the EXPONENT. The lady is
the eldest daughter of Heber C. Kimball, so long
and closely associated with Brigham Young.
The book contains strong testimonies of libing
witnesses on the subject referred to, as well as
quotation from the sayings and writings of 
Joseph Smith himself, and Heber C. Kimball.
She tells how the revelation upon celestial mar-
riage came into the possession of Brigham
Young. Mrs. Whitney writes in a simple, un-
pretending style, but her language is chaste and
her statements cannot be denied. Facts are
stubborn things, and truth carries conviction to
the honest hearted and humble. We commend 
this little pamphlet to the Latter-day Saints,
and to the whole world. The book was
published at the Office of the "Juvenile In-
structor" and is for sale there, and at this office
at 10 cts. per copy. It contains 52 pages and
is printed in very clear type.
			---------------------------


