NOTES AND NEWS.

	GEN. Butler has been elected Governor of
Massachusetts on a woman suffrage platform.
This is a great gain for the women of the Old
Bay State, who have labored so assiduously in
the interest of equality before the law.

	THE sending of medical woman from Eng-
land to India is likely to be an established
custom. The Indian women are averse to
treatment by physicians not of their own sex.

[Column 2]
The statistics of the British medical service
in India show that the women have rarely
availed themselves of prescriptions or atten-
dance. A staff of trained women is proposed
as a part of the public service in India, a de-
partment co-ordinate and not subordinate to
the existing medical bureau.—Ex.

	THE foreign-born population of Kansas is
not nearly so great as it is in many other
States. Of the total inhabitants, over 954,-
000, only about 110,000, or fewer than one in
nine, are foreign-born, while nearly one in
three of the population of Massachusetts, and
one in four of the population of Illinois, are
foreign-born. The people are not only mainly
native-born, but are of the b[e]st elements of
the Northern States hence the progressive atti-
tude of Kansas on Woman suffrage and pro-
hibition.

	YEAR by year prejudice against the occupa-
tion of public place by women is steadily de-
creasing. This is especially noticeable in con-
nection with educational matters. Women are
now eligible as school officers in Illinois, Iowa,
Kansas, Virginia, Massachusetts, Michigan,
Minnesotta, New York, Pennsylvania, Ver-
mont, Wyoming, and to any office in Wisconsin
except that of State Superintendent. In Mis-
sissippi the law requires that at least one
woman shall be a member of the State Board
of Education. Other States are moving in the
same direction, and before ten years those that
fail to follow the same wise example of those
mentioned will be the exception.—Inter-Ocean.

	THE Association for the Advancement of
Women, otherwise known as the Woman's
Congress, held a series of successful meetings
in Portland, Me., on Wednesday, Thursday,
and Friday of last week. Among the note-
worthy participants in the proceedings were
Julia Ward Howe, Mrs. Kate Gannett Wells,
Abby W. May, Mary F. Eastman, Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, Laura Clay (daughter of
Cassius M. Clay), Mrs. Henrietta L. T. Wol-
cott, Dr. Marie Zakrzewska, Mrs. Gen. Lander,
Dr. Lorenza Haynes, Miss Emily J. Leonard,
Mrs. Lita Barney Sayles, and many others
more or less known to the public as thinkers
and leaders. The topics discussed took a very
wide range. The rights of women; the rights
of children, Chinese emigration, religion art,
labor, finance, hygiene, astronomy, political
economy,—these were among the problems
considered by the Congress.

	An Artistic Restaurant.—Visitors to the
last Paris Exposition will remember the head
of the statue of Liberty which formed so promi-
nent a figure in the fair grounds, and was the
more interesting as being destined for America,
known to all the world as the Land of Liberty.
Even then and there Bartholdi, the sculptor of
the colossal figure, used to gather parties of
friends around a banqueting board beneath the
dome of the bronze caput. From time to time
the public has been apprised of the progress of
the work, the lower portion of which is now
well builded up. The latest report is of a ban-
quet in the thigh of the statue, which was "most
successful in every way." The guests walked
in by the right foot, and one of them laid him-
self down most comfortably inside one of the
toes; ladders coveyed them all the way up the
calf, and finally deposited them where a tem-
porary platform had been constructed, and the
festivities are allowed to go on. Liberty may
turn to Bacchus before she is ready to lift her
torch on Bedloe's Island. However, a sculptor
who devotes a hundred thousand dollars of his
own money to a gift-statue, as Bartholdi has to
this, is surely entitled to such pleasure as he
can improvise from it. He is a wealthy man,
alone in the world since the death of his mother
not long since.—Ex.


