[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Simonsen]
EDITORIAL a VOL. 


 Appreciation of the Gospel UCH of the unhappiness that prevails in the world today comes from an ignorance of the purpose of life, and an uncertainty of that which awaits us after this life. In these times of great calamity that has befallen the world, when the hearts of men and women are failing them, there is an increasing need for comfort and guidance from a higher source than earth can produce, a fuller understanding of the purpose of earth life, and an increased hope of life and happiness after death. How highly blessed are the Latterday Saints, as a people who have received so much light and knowledge on these subjects through the channel of divine revelation! In this respect, if in no other, the Latterday Saints should be the happiest, the most contented, the most joyous, and the most appreciative of all people. That live; for, not only has the knowledge of the purpose of this earthly existence been communicated to us, but we have had revealed to us an understanding of where we came from, how our earth life can be made to contribute the most to our own happiness here and _ hereafter, and also much knowledge concerning our future estate, and how eternal happiness may be obtained. Everyone is se¢king for happiness; it is said to be the goal of our lives, our life's work, indeed, the purpose Page 240 of our being. The Book of Mormon prophet Lehi said it this way: "I. Men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). But the world does not know how to obtain that joy. In order to obtain happiness we must understand and abide the laws governing it. Again we are fortunate in having modern-day revelation, for another Book of Mormon prophet, Alma, gives us the law upon which happiness is predicated. He tells us that there is no real happiness in wickedness, no real enjoyment in sin and transgression, that the only source of real enjoyment and perfect happiness is in the observance of the laws of truth and righteousness. Where Latter-day Saints are not enjoying the peace and satisfaction the gospel is designed to give them, the cause is generally a lack of appreciation and gratitude for these blessings, which result in a failure to render obedience to the commandments of the Lord. It is well for us to review, from time to time, some of the gifts and blessings of the restored gospel, as an aid in the cultivation of a proper feeling of appreciation and gratitude to our Father for the blessings and privileges which we enjoy as a people. Blessed indeed, are we who know for an absolute certainty that God has inspired prophets and apostles on the earth, to enlighten 24] JOy. But in Tder to TECeive any of He; blessed Indeed, €se gifts and blessings, € must are we to know that these divinely accept 2 Tesponding duties: to live "PPointed men I] be PE cted in Obedience the Tevealed gospel and Prepared for ¢] © events that are of Jesy Christ. [gf We are true Lat to 22Spire before the great and — ter-day Saints we readful day of th Coming of the Tecognized Standards Ord, of f re 1810us and Moral life, Which NC sorrows and Confusion of Modern Tevelation has se up for 1€ World are but the Predicted jy Our guidance Strict adherence to Ications, these Standards wi] make us the With this 4ssurance, the faithful] happiest and the most Secure People Latter-day Saint cap Pursue life on earth, With @ sense Of peace and securit Let us cach strive to be Worthy And as an additional] blessing, SP'lOf the great blessings f the £Ospel tual light an guidance are Not conWhich have been S1ven to ys IN such ned to gq €W chosen men who abundance d to sho Our apstand at the lead of the Church. Preciation by cepting the Tesponsj very member Who has Cved the jy; ities that St upon us to live the laws of the £0spel has Teceived the 5°Spel, there I Sut of th Holy Ghost for NS ow ight and g Y §Saining happiness T.