[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 09 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Project]
€ been a Woman, th a thirst Ces and for To climb toward the Wi t I § petaled beay And letting blossoms spill Notes TO THE FIELD Book of Mlormon Reading Project EPORT forms on The Book of Mormon reading project will be sent to stake and mission Relief Society presidents in May 1955, and should be returned not later than July 15, 1955. 'The general board wishes to encourage all sisters to do the reading of The Book of Mormon for this year, which includes the Book of Alma, chapters 9 through 63. In order for a sister to receive credit, the reading must have been done during the year in which the lessons have been studied in Relief Society. << Wr Serve as God s Hands Caroline E. Miner NZ by me, but through me shall come accomplishment. This is a humbling and ennobling thought. We have always been taught in our Church that we are the instruments through whom God works; we are the hands to carry forward his purposes. Hands sometimes become crippled, palsied, and in other ways unable to carry out the wishes of the mind that directs them. In like manner we may become unwilling, unable hands to carry on the work of our Father in heaven. Other hands then must do the work. The purposes of God will not be halted. How can we ever become proud in our earthly accomplishments? They are in reality the opportunities which God has given us. "For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen" (Matthew 6:13). So end the Lord's words in the prayer pattern he gave the world. We can be humbly grateful in the accomplishments made through us: the great invention, the glorious picture, the brilliant musical composition, the beautiful poem. Truly great people are ever humble and kind. Only little people, little in the soul sense of the word, are vain and haughty and disdainful. The philosophy that accomplishments are through us but not by us should not lead us to a feeling of irresponsibility for our actions, but instead to a feeling of profound responsibility. '"'Make me a worthy instrument in thy hands" may well be out humble prayer. This philosophy makes us realize the divinity in each other, and makes us tolerant and merciful. Page 242 of the Council Vy dutiful] contralto Voice, and for her sift with Others any are SUIPtised to learn that Sistey nas time for Several tcresting And usefy) hobbies. Particy] I pes of needlework In the living Toom of Smith's "OTE 4m @ tp "TOON rug that Was vy Oster Smith used her own Orginal] design S > brown, blue, and fuchsia on the maroon background A lovely needlepoint Screen, Purchased jp France. And stamped Only jn black and white. Was made by ster Smith in Soft colors f her ow choosing. She has Many Other articles of Needlepoint and petit Point, and has Crocheted three tablecloths two Cdspreads,; nd five afghans. Her latest achievemen 198 beautify] and unusy from Pl€ces of girls' Ik dresse of makin nceer — A Quiz Shat Mlay Save Your Life Sandra Munsell Ca Supervisor, Magazine Services, American