[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 22 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Newbold]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Lilies— 1955 Varieties Dorthea N. Newbold]
THE  RESURRECTION 
213 
this  restoration  occurs  because  it  is 
the  workmanship  of  God. 
npHERE  are  many  who  seem  to 
have  difficulty  in  beheving  that 
the  resurrection  consists  in  the  com- 
ing forth  of  the  physical  body,  the 
idea  being  that  if  a  body  does  come 
forth  it  must  be  a  body  without 
substance.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  has  proclaimed  the  doctrine 
that  there  is  no  ''immaterial  mat- 
ter/' that  what  we  call  spirit  is  mat- 
ter, but  of  a  more  refined  nature 
than  the  matter  that  we  are  familiar 
with  in  this  life  (D.  &  C.  131:7)- 
When  the  Savior  appeared  to 
some  of  the  disciples  after  the  resur- 
rection they  were  afraid  of  him;  they 
thought  he  was  a  spirit.  He  calmed 
their  fears,  saying  to  them,  "a  spirit 
hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye  see 
me  have"  (Luke  24:39).  And  he  in- 
vited some  who  were  still  skeptical 
to  feel  of  his  hands  and  to  put  their 
hands  in  the  wounds  of  his  cruci- 
fixion. 
When  the  Savior  appeared  to  the 
people  on  this  continent  after  his 
resurrection,  he  invited  twenty-five 
hundred  of  them  to  do  the  same. 
Some  are  still  unwilling  to  accept 
this  demonstrated  truth  as  applying 
to  all  who  are  resurrected  and  argue 
that  a  bodily  resurrection  was  for 
him  alone.  But  showing  this  to  be 
an  error,  the  apostle  Paul  in  Philip- 
pians  3:21,  expressly  states,  referring 
to  the  resurrection  at  the  coming  of 
the  Savior: 
Who  shall  change  our  vile  body,  that 
it  may  be  fashioned  hke  unto  his  glorious 
body,  according  to  the  worlcing  whereby 
he  is  able  even  to  subdue  all  things  unto 
himself. 
So  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  are 
very  clear  that  the  resurrection  has 
to  do  with  the  bringing  forth  of  a 
purified,  cleansed,  and  immortalized 
body  of  flesh  and  bones  to  five  for- 
ever—those who  have  kept  the  com- 
mandments of  God  to  live  in  a  con- 
dition of  glory,  and  those  who  have 
rejected  the  gospel  to  live  in  a  con- 
dition of  banishment  from  the  pres- 
ence of  God. 
As  to  the  time  of  the  resurrection, 
there  was  the  first  resurrection 
marked  by  the  coming  forth  of  the 
saints  at  the  time  the  Lord  himself 
was  resurrected.  Looking  to  the  fu- 
ture, the  saints  and  the  just  are  to 
arise  to  meet  him  when  he  shall 
come  again  to  the  earth  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  millennium.  The 
resurrection  of  the  wicked  will  not 
take  place  until  the  end  of  the 
world.  Referring  to  this  first  resur- 
rection of  the  future,  this  is  given: 
And  then  shall  the  heathen  nations  be 
redeemed,  and  they  that  knew  no  law 
shall  have  part  in  the  first  resurrection; 
and  it  shall  be  tolerable  for  them  (D.  &  C. 
45:54)- 
And  after  this  another  angel  shall  sound, 
which  is  the  second  trump;  and  then 
Cometh  the  redemption  of  those  who  are 
Christ's  at  his  coming;  who  have  received 
their  part  in  that  prison  which  is  prepared 
for  them,  that  they  might  receive  the 
gospel,  and  be  judged  according  to  men 
in  the  flesh  (D.  &  C.  88:99). 
The  time  and  glory  pertaining  to 
the  resurrection  are  clearly  explained 
in  the  76th  and  88th  sections  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The  ques- 
tion is  sometimes  raised  as  to  the 
resurrection  of  the  sons  of  perdition 
who  are  referred  to  in  these  sections. 
Verse  32,  section  88,  thus  describes 
their  coming  forth: 
And  they  who  remain  shall  also  be 
quickened;  nevertheless,   they  shall  return

214 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1955 
again  to  their  own  place,  to  enjoy  that 
which  they  are  wilhng  to  receive,  because 
they  were  not  wilhng  to  enjoy  that  which 
they  might  ha\e  received. 
'T'HE  Lord  is  explicit  in  stating 
that  all  shall  come  forth.  So, 
through  the  atonement  of  Jesus 
Christ,  comes  the  renewal  of  the 
earth  and  the  renewal  of  life  upon 
it.  Death  and  the  grave  are  over- 
come, and  all  are  raised  to  immor- 
tality when  the  body  and  spirit  do 
not  again  separate,  made  so  clear  in 
this  scripture: 
Now,  this  restoration  shall  come  to  all, 
both  old  and  young,  both  bond  and  free, 
both  male  and  female,  both  the  wicked 
and  the  righteous;  and  even  there  shall 
not  so  much  as  a  hair  of  their  heads  be 
lost;  but  every  thing  shall  be  restored  to 
its  perfect  frame,  as  it  is  now,  or  in  the 
body,  and  shall  be  brought  and  be  ar- 
raigned before  the  bar  of  Christ  the  Son, 
and  God  the  Father,  and  the  Holy  Spirit, 
which  is  one  Eternal  God,  to  be  judged 
according  to  their  works,  whether  they  be 
good  or  whether  they  be  evil. 
Now,  behold,  I  have  spoken  unto  you 
concerning  the  death  of  the  mortal  body, 
and  also  concerning  the  resurrection  of 
the  mortal  body.  I  say  unto  you  that 
this  mortal  body  is  raised  to  an  immortal 
body,  that  is  from  death,  even  from  the 
first  death  unto  life,  that  they  can  die  no 
more;  their  spirits  uniting  with  their 
bodies,  never  to  be  divided;  thus  the 
whole  becoming  spiritual  and  immortal, 
that  they  can  no  more  see  corruption 
(Alma  11:44,  45)- 
Those  who  have  obeyed  the  gos- 
pel also  have  eternal  life  ''even  the 
glory  of  the  Celestial  Kingdom,'' 
others  such  glory  or  absence  of  glory 
as  belongs  to  the  lives  they  chose  to 
live. 
Much  ignorance  and  error  exist 
and  much  unnecessary  sorrow 
has  been  endured  by  bereft  loved 
ones  regarding  the  fate  of  children. 
Great  and  comforting  truth  has 
come  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith:  first,  that  little  children 
are  resurrected  as  little  children,  to 
grow  to  maturity  in  a  resurrected 
condition.  Also  that  children  who 
die  before  the  years  of  accountability 
die  without  sin  and  eiiter  the  ce- 
lestial kingdom,  which  is  explained 
in  this  scripture: 
Listen  to  the  words  of  Christ,  your 
Redeemer,  your  Lord  and  your  God.  Be- 
hold, I  came  into  the  world  not  to  call 
the  righteous  but  sinners  to  repentance; 
the  whole  need  no  physician,  but  they 
that  are  sick;  wherefore,  little  children  are 
whole,  for  they  are  not  capable  of  com- 
mitting sin;  wherefore  the  curse  of  Adam 
is  taken  from  them  in  me,  that  it  hath 
no  power  over  them  .... 
And  after  this  manner  did  the  Holy 
Ghost  manifest  the  word  of  God  unto  me; 
wherefore,  my  beloved  son,  I  know  that 
it  is  solemn  mockery  before  God,  that  ye 
should  baptize  little  children. 
Behold  I  say  unto  you  that  this  thing 
shall  ye  teach — repentance  and  baptism 
unto  those  who  are  accountable  and  cap- 
able of  committing  sin;  yea,  teach  parents 
that  they  must  repent  and  be  baptized, 
and  humble  themselves  as  their  little  chil- 
dren, and  they  shall  all  be  saved  with  their 
httle  children. 
And  their  little  children  need  no  re- 
pentance, neither  baptism.  Behold,  bap- 
tism is  unto  repentance  to  the  fulfilling 
the  commandments  unto  the  remission  of 
sins. 
But  little  children  are  alive  in  Christ, 
even  from  the  foundation  of  the  world;  if 
not  so,  God  is  a  partial  God,  and  also 
a  changeable  God,  and  a  respecter  of  per- 
sons; for  how  many  little  children  haxe 
died  without  baptism! 
Wherefore,  if  little  children  could  not 
be  saved  without  baptism,  these  must 
ha\e  gone  to  an  endless  hell.

THE  RESURRECTION 
215 
Behold  I  say  unto  you,  that  he  that 
supposeth  that  Httle  children  need  bap- 
tism is  in  the  gall  of  bitterness  and  in 
the  bonds  of  iniquity,  for  he  hath  neither 
faith,  hope,  nor  charity;  wherefore,  should 
he  be  cut  off  while  in  the  thought,  he 
must  go  down  to  hell. 
For  awful  is  the  wickedness  to  suppose 
that  God  saveth  one  child  because  of  bap- 
tism, and  the  other  must  perish  because 
he  hath  no  baptism. 
Wo  be  unto  them  that  shall  pervert 
the  ways  of  the  Lord  after  this  manner, 
for  they  shall  perish  except  they  repent. 
Behold,  I  speak  with  boldness,  having 
authority  from  God;  and  I  fear  not  what 
man  can  do;  for  perfect  love  casteth  out 
all  fear. 
And  I  am  filled  with  charity,  which  is 
everlasting  love;  wherefore,  all  children 
are  alike  unto  me;  wherefore,  I  love  little 
children  with  a  perfect  love;  and  they  are 
all  alike  and  partakers  of  salvation  (Moroni 
8:8-17). 
Thus,  through  the  resurrection, 
is  established  the  truth  of  the  Lord's 
words:  ''And  whosoever  liveth  and 
believeth  in  me  shall  never  die" 
(John  11:26).  The  only  real  death 
is  in  sin  and  banishment  from  the 
presence  of  God,  which  is  both  the 
first  and  the  second  death  (D.  &  C. 
29:41).  What  we  commonly  call 
death  is  but  the  doorway  to  im- 
mortal life  which  cannot  end.  Each 
of  us,  therefore,  as  the  immortal 
offspring  of  our  Father  in  heaven 
will  finally  live  to  come  to  the  per- 
sonal experience  described  in  this 
scripture: 
For  we  must  all  appear  before  the  judg- 
ment seat  of  Christ;  that  every  one  may 
receive  the  things  done  in  his  body,  ac- 
cording to  that  he  hath  done,  whether 
it  be  good  or  bad  (II  Cor.  5:10). 
00  JLong  Kyis  Springtime  L^omes 
Mabel  Jones  Gahhott 
Some  springtimes  enter  like  a  warm  green  breeze. 
Through  budding  elm  and  oak  and  maple  trees, 
A  slender  grass  stem  pushing  earth  apart, 
A  low,  round  violet  leaf,  a  tulip  dart. 
And  spring  sometimes  in  yellow  is  arrayed. 
Wide  fields  with  dandelions  overlaid, 
Forsythia  that  frames  my  neighbor's  walk. 
And  sunshine  in  the  sky,  in  smiles,  in  talk; 
And  often  spring  will  beckon  all  in  pink, 
Glowing  like  children's  cheeks,  or  dawn's  wide  wink, 
Peach  blooms,  and  white-pink  apple  witchery, 
Rose-throated  robins  in  the  cherry  tree; 
Oh,  I  care  not  what  colors  first  appear. 
So  long  as  sprmgtime  comes  year  after  year.