[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 25 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
Qjrotn    I  Lear  and  cfc ar 
Thank  you  for  an  outstanding  issue  of 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  (February 
1955).  Arriving  today  (January  26th),  it 
came  like  a  very  special  gift  for  my  birth- 
day, all  the  more  so  because  you  used  for 
a  frontispiece  my  mother's  exquisite  poem 
written  for  me.  I  then  found  my  poem 
(written  for  my  daughters)  'The  Un- 
answerable," page  108.  Also  I  noted  how 
every  one  of  the  other  poems  and  each 
of  the  stories  are  well  above  average  in 
quality.  The  Magazine  always  has  some- 
thing special  in  it,  but  this  time  it  de- 
serves superlatives! 
—Mrs.  Lael  W.  Hill 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Thank  you  for  the  story  "Faith  and 
Prayer  and  Johnnie  Morton"  (January 
1955).  I  feel  it  is  an  answer  to  my 
prayers.  We  have  a  little  daughter  eleven 
years  old  who  had  polio  when  she  was  a 
baby,  and,  in  spite  of  our  prayers,  exer- 
cises, braces,  and  massage,  her  back  has 
continued  to  twist  —  \'ery  rapidly  the  last 
few  months.  On  January  4th  she  had 
another  appointment  with  a  specialist  to 
see  what  his  verdict  was  after  seeing 
X-rays  taken  the  week  before.  So,  on 
fast  day,  January  2d,  our  family,  including 
those  who  are  away,  had  a  special  prayer 
after  fasting,  and  afterwards  our  daughter 
was  administered  to.  The  doctor  said  she 
would  have  to  have  a  serious  operation 
that  would  mean  being  in  the  hospital 
about  six  weeks  and  at  home  on  her 
back  in  a  cast  for  six  months.  On  our 
way  home  she  nearly  broke  my  heart  by 
saying,  "What  good  did  it  do  to  fast 
and  pray?"  I  tried  to  explain  that  some- 
times our  prayers  aren't  answered  as  we 
want  to  think  they  should  be,  but  some- 
times they  are  answered  by  our  knowing 
where  to  go  for  help  to  doctors  who  are 
skilled  and  know  what  to  do,  and  I  told 
her  the  story  of  Naaman  and  Elisha. 
Then  came  the  Magazine  and  the  story 
of  Johnnie  and  his  problem — just  like 
hers.  I  read  the  story  to  her  and  I  know 
it  helped  her  to  understand  that  God  had 
not  deserted  her  and  was  still  mindful 
of  her  and  our  prayers.  She  is  going  to 
need  her  faith  to  get  through  the  coming 
year  cheerfully. 
—Mrs.  Thcron  S.  Hall 
Springville,  Utah 
During  the  past  one  and  one-half  years 
my  family  and  I  have  been  in  Pakistan. 
Contacts  with  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  very  few. 
When  I  left  Panguitch,  Utah,  friends  gaxe 
me  a  subscription  to  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  It  has  followed  me  over  half- 
way around  the  world  to  bring  cheer,  com- 
fort, and  reassurance  of  the  stability  of 
the  spiritual  values  of  our  life,  and  to 
which  we  cling  very  tightly.  The  Maga- 
zine is  a  never-ending  source  of  knowl- 
edge and  inspiration.  I  have  enjoyed  the 
group  photos  immensely,  too,  being  able 
to  recognize  many  friends  I  have  known 
in  N'arious  wards.  Being  so  far  from  home 
I  can  more  sincerely  feel  the  influence  the 
Magazine  is  having  upon  e\'ery  corner  of 
the  world.  May  every  Latter-day  Saint 
realize  the  values  to  be  gained  and  not 
let  a  single  edition  lie  unopened. 
— Mrs.  Clyde  T.  Low 
Rawalpindi,  Pakistan 
I   wish    to   express   my   thanks   for   the 
Magazine.     I  read  it  from  cover  to  cover, 
Mrs,  Woolsey's  poem  "Poet's  Mother"  in 
the  February  issue  is  very  fine. 
— Gene  Romolo 
Provo,  Utah 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  has  just 
come,  and  I  have  read  Mrs.  Sharp's  splen- 
did editorial  "Take  Time  to  Safeguard 
Children"  (February  1955).  It  is  most 
carefully  worded  and  written.  It  is  one 
of  the  best  that  I  have  read. 
— Charles  V.  Worthington 
Los  Angeles,  Cahfornia 
We  ladies  of  the  Seventh  Ward,  Mt. 
Logan  Stake,  do  love  our  Relief  Society 
^^'ork  and  thank  you  sincerely  for  the 
Magazine,  and  especially  for  the  "Greet- 
ings for  the  New  Year"  (January  1955). 
I,  for  one,  am  going  to  try  to  make  the 
greetings  a  part  of  each  day's  living. 
— Mrs.  A.  R.  Gibbons 
Logan,  Utah 
I  would  like  to  tell  you  how  much  I 
enjoy  our  Magazine.  Since  my  husband 
is  in  the  Air  Force,  and  we  arc  awav  from 
home,  it  brings  home  so  much  closer  to 
me. 
— Mrs.   Beverlee  Nilsson 
Cibolo,  Texas 
Page  210