[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Her Own | Author: Ostegar]
Her Own Life Ruth Moody Ostegar HE: soft, rose-tinted light of the early spring dawn was beginning to permeate the room where Myra Glennon lay dreaming. She wore the gown of a bride, and seemed to float over a gossamer bridge of dreams into a shining, joyous land of warmth, happiness, and love. Suddenly she was awake; the dream was gone forever, and she was faced with reality. Well, it's entirely thought. Why shouldn't I become a bride? Even if I am twenty-five, I've still got a good future, and I'm really not bad looking. If I could only get away from this—this stupid town! Everyone here thinks of me as "Poor Myra, a schoolmarm and nursemaid to an invalid mother." It just isn't fair at all! I should have a chance to live my own life! Four years previous to this, when Myra was a senior at the university, the sudden death of her father had left a situation which had changed her plans completely. Her mother, an invalid, was left a home with a mortgage, a car not completely paid for, a pile of small debts, and no means of support. Of her three children, Myra alone was free to care for her. Her oldest, a son with a wife and two children, was attempting to finish law school on his G. I. Funds. Her second son was in Korea. Bravely giving up her plans for a B. A., Myra had faced the situation, finished her teaching requirements, signed a contract as a teacher in the Page 254 possible, she city schools, and had taken upon her young shoulders the responsibility of her mother and her home. She had willingly volunteered her services in this matter, and had never regretted it. She loved her mother, and no sacrifice was too great for her sake. But this morning, with spring in the air, she was frankly rebellious, and longed for a husband and children of her own. If I were only back in school, she thought. I'm sure I'd meet some nice, older fellow there, perhaps someone taking out a higher degree. © Her mind was carried away for a few minutes on the incoming tide of imagination. Then she sighed, at any rate, if not a husband, I might have a career: I've always wanted to write. Who knows, I might write the great American novel, or be a foreign correspondent flying to interesting spots all over the world? "My-ra," her mother's tired voice interrupted the wild ebb tide of fancy. "Are you awake? It's time to get up, dear." "Yes, Mother, 'm awake." Once again she sighed. "Myra, will you please bring me a cup of hot water when you get up?" "Hot water?" Myra yawned and sat up on the edge of her bed. "Yes, of course, Mother, I'll have it there in a minute." She hastily slipped into a housecoat and_ slippers, and for the next hour and a half had no time whatever for dreams. When she was HER OWN LIFE finally ready for school, she helped her mother into her wheel chair, set the telephone and radio beside her, and made ready to leave. "Now, Mother, I've got everything ready for your lunch. Mrs. Manning (the woman next door who cared for her mother while she was away) will find my note in the kitchen. I've got to run now; I hope you ll be happy." She stooped and kissed the frail, wrinkled cheek. "Be careful, Myra. Don't drive too fast." "IT won't, Mother, "bye now." A few minutes later Miss Glennon let herself into the room at the Jefferson Street School where she taught the third grade. She took off her coat and hung it up, dusted her desk, arranged the apple blossoms she had brought with her, consulted her lesson plans for the day, and began copying an assignment on the blackboard.. As her hands performed these familiar tasks, her mind was busy with but one problem. How could she arrange her affairs in order to attend the un:- versity again next year? John, her older brother, was now a struggling young lawyer, having a hard time to meet the payments on his newly acquired home. His house was already full, his wife overworked, and his children, whose number had grown to four, made her mother nervous. Dick, the second brother, now an engineer, was here and there on one job or another, and a construction camp was certainly no place for an invalid. The door opened, and two little girls came into the room. "Good morning, girls," I she greeted them. 255 "Good morning, Miss Glennon," they chorused. "What brings you here so early?" "We didn't want to be late." "Well run out of doors and play; it's nice this morning, and I have work to do." "Can me and Sandra take out the ball?" "You should remember to say 'Sandra and I,' Judy. You're almost through the third grade." "Well then, can we?" "Yes, Judy, you may. Come here a minute, Sandra. Will you please?" The little girl stood before her teacher who inspected her closely. "Before you go to play,' Myra suggested, "I think you should go to the rest room and wash your face. You don't want all the children to know that you had egg and jam for breakfast, do you?" "No-o." "Well run along now, and be sure and get it good and clean." As the door closed, Myra once again took up her task, this time in an annoyed manner. Am I going to have to spend the rest of my life correcting the grammar and inspecting the faces of the Judys and Sandras of this world? She asked herself. It's so—so frustrating, telling the same children the same things day after day. It isn't that I don't like — for I really do, but I don't want to spend my whole life at it! QNCE again the door opened and Mr. Johnson, the principal, entered. "Good morning, Miss Glennon, the contracts finally got here. I suppose we can count on you again next year, can't we?" 256 Myra didn't like to be taken for granted. "Well, to be frank with you, Mr. Johnson, I'm planning on going back to the university." "You are?" 'The principal did not try to hide his astonishment. "Well, that is—I mean I'm going if I can make the proper arrangements here at home," Myra stuttered. "It isn't certain yet, but I do so want to go!" "It would surely be nice for you, but I don't know how I'd get along without you. I've come to depend upon you more and more." Myra remained silent, slightly stunned by her own revealing of her innermost secret. "Here's the contract anyway, so keep it and see how things work out. Good luck!" and the principal was gone. Myra, feeling suddenly weak inside, sat down. She crossed her arms on her desk and laid her head upon them. Why on earth did I say that? She silently asked herself. By tonight the entire school will be aware that "Poor Myra' won't be here next year. Now I've got to do something or be the laughing stock of the whole community! Hot, burning tears started to her eyes, but she choked them back. A few moments later she raised her head, picked up the contract, and thrust it into the drawer, took a pencil and paper and began putting down figures. "Let's see," she mused. "I've saved almost twelve hundred in the last four years. 'That would see me through school, in fact, I could spare a little to help with mother's care. Now if I could get John and Dick to each agree to send mother RELIEF SOCIETY NAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 a check every month, and get the Mannings to move in_ with her ' On and on, her mind raced as she saw the fulfillment of her dream becoming a reality — at least on paper. The words of the little engine record which she often played to her children came to her mind: I think I can, I think I can, I know I can, I know I can "And I will, too,' she added aloud for good measure. A very excited young woman, with but half her attention focused upon her work, conducted the third grade that morning. 'The day proved to be warm, the children restless, and the teacher nervous. N the middle of the morning she noticed Jimmy, a tall, lank, tenyear-old, gazing off into space, daydreaming. His faded, blond hair was badly in need of a haircut, his clothes were shabby and not too clean. His old, runover shoes failed to hide the holes in his socks. Jimmy was from the old trailer camp down by the river. But he was bright, in fact, Myra felt that in spite of his apparent lack of parental care, the boy had high potentialities. There was something good, sweet, and genuine about him, that seemed to be ever reaching above his sordid home conditions. She had always been interested in him. "Jimmy, why aren't you doing your arithmetic?" she asked softly, as she stopped by his side. "Oh, I'm all through," he answered. "What are you doing?" "I'm writing you a poem, Miss Glennon," Jimmy shyly admitted. HER OWN LIFE "Well, that's nice. I like your poems, Jimmy. When it's finished, just put it on my desk." Myra dragged through the morning. As she relaxed for a few moments before going to lunch, her eyes fell upon Jimmy's poem. She smiled as she read his crude verse, which was practically without meter and had very little thyme. It ended: We will always try and be quiet in school And not make hardly any fuss, For we all love you Because we know you love us. Ileal a sweet thing for a child to, She thought to herself. I just i t know how he could pay me a higher compliment. And I really do love them, every one. At the close of the day, she was busy correcting papers when the door opened and a very angry little girl entered. "Miss Glennon, Jimmy's throwing rocks at us. Come and make him stop. He almost hit Annie." "Why is Jimmy throwing rocks, have you been teasing him?" "No, honest, Miss Glennon, we didn't say nothing about him." "Well I'll have to get to the bottom of this." At the gate of the school yard, she found the boy, very much upset, with a rock in each hand. "Tm goin' to get 'em! I'm goin' to get 'em!" he wailed. "Jimmy!" Myra's voice held all the authority she was capable of putting into it. "Drop those rocks this minute and come with me." "Miss Glennon, they said mean things about my brother, and I won't stand for it!" "Come on in and tell me all about it." She put her arm around 257 the sobbing boy and led him back to the room. When he finally got to the state that she could reason with him, they talked about boys whose brothers belonged to gangs, and did things which were not right, and about little girls who hurt the boys they liked best just to attract their attention. 'Then Miss Glennon abruptly changed the subject. "Jimmy," she said smiling, "you need a haircut." "Yes, Ma'am. Mom was going to cut it the other night, but I ran away and wouldn't let her. She don't know nothin' about cuttin' hair." IS teacher, overlooking the grammatical errors, replied, "You know it's spring, and I need a boy to help dig up my garden. 'Tomorrow is Saturday, why don't you come over and help me for a few hours in the morning? I think you could earn enough to get a_hairaut" "Could I really?" he asked enthusiastically. 'Then his face fell. "I haven't got a bicycle. How would I get there?' "How about the bus?" she asked. Then, slipping a coin into the boy's hand, she added, "Well run along now, I'll see you tomorrow at nine. Do you know where I live?" "Yes, Ma'am. Leastwise I know about where it is, 'cause I found your address in the telephone book one night when I was over to Don's. I can find it all right." She gave him a few simple instructions for getting there, and the boy left, smiling happily, the incident of the rock throwing forgotten entireIye. I fear for Jimmy, she thought as she watched him run across the 258 school yard. He's a good boy, but he has a temper, and he ls easily led. I wish I could do something for him. Monday morning, after a satisfying week-end of garden work and letter writing, mixed with church going and relaxing, Myra arrived at school. Her plans for the future, now that the letters to her brothers were actually written, seemed much nearer consummation, and_ she smiled happily. But her happiness was short lived. The children began arriving, and soon the whole schoolground buzzed with excitement. Snatches of conversation came through the partially opened windows. Myra did not like what she heard, and walked outside. "What's all this about someone being sent to jail?" she asked. "It's Jimmy!" "They smashed all the windows!" "She's going to send them to jail for a year!"' "The cops got 'em!" Many excited voices, all talking at once, tried to inform her. "Wait a minute!" she said, holding up both hands. Then, turning to one of the older boys, she said, "John, you tell me about it."