[Vol42 | April 1955 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Work]
[A Handful of Dirt Vivian Campbell Work]
MAKE  A  TRAIN  261 
PIPE  CLEANERS 
REAR  FRONT 
To  make  couplings  cut  the  pipe  cleaners  in  two.  Fold  one  of  the  pieces  so  the 
ends  are  together  and  push  the  ends  through  the  back  end  of  the  engine.  Reach  in- 
side under  the  spool  wheel  and  bend  the  ends  back  half  an  inch.  Bend  the  part  stick- 
ing out  up  to  make  a  hook.  Make  the  same  kind  of  loop  at  the  back  end  of  one  of 
the  cars.  At  the  front  end  of  the  cars,  push  the  two  folded  ends  of  the  pipe  cleaner 
through  and  bend  back  the  ends.  Make  a  loop  of  the  part  sticking  out  and  loop  it 
over  the  hook  made  at  the  back  end  of  the  engine  and  the  other  car.  (Milk  cartons  can 
also  be  used  in  place  of  matchboxes.) 
Now  your  train  is  ready  to  run  and  carry  a  lot  of  cargo. 
uL  uLandful  of  ^JUirt 
Vivian  CampheW  Work 
npAKE  a  handful  of  dirt,  feel  the  dampness  and  the  softness;  feel  the  life  in  it.  There, 
*       within  the  plain  brown  cover  of  the  earth,  lies  a  power  that  cares  for  all  living 
things. 
Get  a  wrinkled,  dried-up  little  seed,  and  take  a  handful  of  dirt  to  cover  it.  Water 
this  carefully  for  a  few  days,  and  watch,  watch  the  life  come  creeping  forth,  stretching 
bright  green  fingers  to  the  sun!  The  seed  and  the  water  cannot  do  this  without  the 
power  in  a  handful  of  dirt. 
Think  of  all  the  trees  and  plants  and  grasses  that  are  anchored  firmly  in  the  soil. 
All  mankind  depends  on  these  for  hfe.  Thus,  our  life,  too,  is  held  within  that  handful 
of  earth. 
More  than  life  comes  from  the  earth.  From  her  bosom  wells  forth  beauty — the 
beauty  of  outstretched  fields,  running  gold  and  green  and  copper  in  the  sun.  She  gives 
us  the  shadows  of  the  forests  and  the  rugged  upward  thrust  of  hills. 
Surely  beauty  comes  from  the  earth!  Her  themes  and  patterns  are  repeated  in 
every  story  picture  and  song.  All  the  loveliness  that  man  creates  he  fills  with  the 
beauty  he  sees  about  him,  the  beauty  that  comes  from  the  earth. 
Take  a  handful  of  earth  now.  Feel  the  softness,  the  beauty,  and  the  life  of  it. 
Within  this  handful  is  a  little  bit  of  yesterday,  a  part  of  today,  and  all  the  promise  of 
tomorrow.  The  soil  is  precious.  Guard  it  carefully,  use  it  wisely,  and  work  it 
reverently. 
■  ♦  ■ 
 
xyin    Linaerstanaing  uieart 
Anne  S.  W.  Gouid 
E  only  see  the  surface  of  people,  and  know  little  of  their  struggles,  tears,  and 
heartaches.     We  can  only  live  nobly  by  the  cultivation  of  compassion. 
w
