JUNE 1967 sae Deep aig en The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: IHlustrations: EASTWARD FROM ISLANDS —_— Bind me with your winter wheat Fields under the austere cliffs. Hold me by all chains Of remembrance and duty, Lest 1, seduced by beauty, Live as the hibiscus for one day. Remind me of eternity, Pierce my eyes with splendor Of all precepts and all holiness, So, wounded and broken, | return, Nor among thorn hedge burn In the glowing ashes gray. Lash me with bitter winds, Scar me with grinding hours, So | live to see morning Rise like a shout among cloud rifts, Sun melting ice drifts And the dark chains away. Break me with Burden and bond. Dissolve me not With summer and sound. Mount Hood, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Farm Scene in Colorado Photograph by Arizona Photographic Associates Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 401 How thrilled | was to see a picture of my mother and her co-workers in the Note From the Field from Sydney Stake (Australia) in the February Magazine. It has been eight years since | left my home, but some of the faces were still familiar.! Would like to thank my mother for sending me a gift subscription to the Magazine. Nita Ehmann Olsen Ogden, Utah | have now received my fourth issue of The Relief Society Magazine, which has been a great source of strength to me, and adds much happiness and wonderful ideas to a newly married couple. Julie Tall Marshall Orem, Utah | wish to express my appreciation for all the work that goes into our Magazine. My mother gave me a year's subscription when | married, and | have very happily renewed it twice since. As we presently live thirty miles from the nearest church, | am unable to attend Relief Society, and miss both the lessons and the fellowship of the sisters. Last year | was homemaking leader and organist. Now | find that the Magazine helps to fill the gap that exists in my week, and | am glad to be able to study the appropriate lessons. | was thrilled to read the address by Elder Harold B. Lee in the January issue, and | took his counsel to my heart. Jeanette Miller Verona, Tasmania, Australia We thought my picture was so nice (hobby feature, October 1966) that my husband rushed out and got a nice little frame for it. | have received many letters, even from people not of our faith, saying how pleased they were to see it. Hestella Kuttler Pocatello, Idaho 402 A friend sends me The Relief Society Magazine. This has gone on for years. What a gift it is! | am not of your faith, but | enjoy this publication. It is so refreshing to read stories, editorials, and poems that stand for what is basically good and beautiful. | especially like Dorothy Clapp Robinson's stories. Mrs. Wm. A. Hopper Boise, Idaho | have just finished reading the wonderful story ''Tell Me of Love'' (serial, concluded in February 1967), by Rosa Lee Lloyd, and must tell you how it has inspired me. The Ridgehaven family was such a credit to their Church and to their country, that the story has actually helped me to face my own life and its problems with new courage. Seldom have | read a story with so much verve and suspense. | am sure everyone is looking forward to Mrs. Lloyd's next appearance in the Magazine. Marva Cain Memphis, Tennessee When the hustle and restlessness of modern living patterns are broken down to a minimum, | take joy and pleasure in reading The Relief Society Magazine. Here in the mission field, one doesn't have much time for literature concerning life and the sublime incidents which occur therein, and so | always take pride in the Magazine, for it lends me renewed spirits and disposition. Elder Markus Zimmer Berlin, Germany The Relief Society Magazine certainly has added much to our home. There are many, many wonderful suggestions for keeping an orderly home, with the love, understanding, and beauty of the gospel. Darla J. Iberl Typens, Pennsylvania 

The ReIicf SOCICTY Magazine = ——— = - ——— —— — - on a Volume 54 June 1967 Number 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 404 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Emma Rae McKay Ashton 418 For Successful Family Home Evenings Belva B. Ashton 450 Annual Report for 1966 Hulda P. Young 432 The Holy Family (Andrea del Sarto) Floyd Breinholt Fiction 427 The Golden Chain—Chapter 5 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 402 From Near and Far 424 Editorial: The 137th Annual General Church Conference 426 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 480 _ 'Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 434 Mary lla's Wedding Cake Mary Ila Flinders 436 East Long Beach (California) Stake Fine Arts Show 438 Embroidered Motifs Decorate Crocheted Afghan Florence G. Williams 439 A Sweater That Blossoms With Flowers Florence G. Williams 440 Spinner of New Zealand Wool 441 Flower Show in Lost River Stake (Idaho) 441 Helen Four Eagle Boy and Roseline Long Knife Make Patchwork Quilt 442 Variations of the Tortilla Leanor J. Brown 444 Mix-and-Match Wardrobes Ethelynn Keiser 449 Medallions of Artistry Mark Her Years Lesson Department 464 Summer Months Sewing Course Discussion IV Eleanor Jorgensen 467 Spiritual Living—-Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Roy W. Doxey 469 Visiting Teacher Messages—Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Alice Colton Smith 471 Homemaking Meeting—Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Celestia J. Taylor 472 Social Relations—Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Alberta H. Christensen 474 Cultural Refinement—Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Bruce B. Clark Poetry 401 Eastward From Islands Margery S. Stewart Three-Year-Old, Christie Lund Coles 435; Wren Time, Ethel Jacobson 461; Life's Journey, Judith Leigh-Kendall 461; Now the Other World Is Gone, Dorothy J. Roberts 478; Directions, Dixie Randall Oveson 478. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Photograph by Lignell-Gill Emma Ray Riggs McKay as a young wife and mother MOTHER LOVE Emma Ray Riggs McKay When you were a girl in the long, long ago, With no cares except lessons, or maybe a beau, Were you asked by a neighbor,. A-very dear friend, To be with her babe and your services lend? With your arms about baby in tender embrace, Examining each line of its dear little face, As it dropped off to sleep under your rhythmic line, Did you ever say lightly, ''l wish it were mine''? And when you were married to that handsome beau, Who courted you gallantly years, years ago, And God blessed you with babies with eyes brown and blue, With features of yours and your husband's, too, Did your soul burst with happiness, satisfaction, and joy As you gazed with fond love on the face of your boy? As you sang to it, crooned to it, thought it divine, Did your heart throb the murmur, ''I'm thankful it's mine''? And, then, as the years hurried happily on, And the mates of the children in time came along, When you held your first grandchild pressed close to your heart, Did you wish for one like him—to make a new start? No! Woman's life is divided in three in life's test— Maidenhood, motherhood, then self-culture and rest. As you look on the forms of the grandchildren nine, You're content to say glowingly, ''I love them as mine.'' Onna Kray MoSiay Birthday Congratulations, June 23, 1967 PART | EARLY HOME LIFE, MARRIAGE, AND CHILDREN Emma Rae McKay Ashton " Kmma Louise Riggs, the happy mother, was startled from her reverie by a banging door and the sound of running in the hall. The two boys are up, she thought. When the boys reached her room, nine-year-old Ned exclaimed, ''Where's the new baby? May we see her?" "Can she play with us? What does she look like?'' echoed Lester, who was five. 405 June 1967 99 "Come in and see for yourselves."' The lively youngsters pushed open the door and rushed to their mother's bedside, their father close behind joining them. Emma, raising herself on one elbow, tenderly lifted her tiny treasure from the covers for the trio to see more clearly. At first they laughed. She was so small and pink. As they examined each tiny feature, they were delighted, and with happy exclamations, welcomed into the family circle their new baby sister. "She is like a ray of sunshine," beamed the happy father. 'Her name shall be Ray—Emma Ray Riggs." t was June 23, 1877. Emma Louise had awakened early. As she gazed lovingly at the wee miracle nestled in her arms, she could hardly contain her happiness. A little girl had arrived in their home. As she expressed her gratitude in silent supplication for this sweet spirit, at the same time she prayed that her little one might be spared. The Riggs family had lost two of their sons. Walter, two years younger than Ned, died at six months, and Lester's twin, Harold, had lived only a month and a half. Though the mortality rate for infants was high in those days, and many mothers experienced this tragedy, this failed to lessen the sorrow felt by these loving parents. With her cheerful smile and sunny disposition, Ray's presence through the years brought much love and lightened the hearts of all in the household. Two years later, when baby Lawrence was born, the family's joy was complete. Two months following Emma Ray's birth, President Brigham Young died, a sorrow to their community and to the Church as a whole. Many tales were told of President Young's personal interest in his people. This family story Ray often heard related in her childhood. One day, her mother, whose handsome hair had grown too long and too thick to manage properly, stopped at the barber shop. Inside she met President Young, who inquired, '""Emma Louise Riggs, what are you doing here?" ""T've come to have my hair cut, President Young." "Your beautiful hair is your crowning glory. You go right home. I forbid you to let the barber touch it!"' She obeyed, turned around, and walked out. But later, she returned to have it cut. Ray grew up in happy surroundings. Her father, Obadiah H. Riggs had built their home at 56 North 2d West Street in Salt Lake City. In her childhood she played ball and marbles sometimes with her brothers, but most of her activity was shared with her two cousins, 406 Emma Ray Riggs (center) with her brothers Lester (sitting on the table at the left) and Ned (standing at the right) Nell and Bell Barrett, who lived next door. By the hour they played jacks, jump the rope, and hopscotch. When the snow was heavy in the wintertime, they took turns riding on a sled. Her home was one of culture, refinement, and love: The family members, as Ray grew older, loved to play and sing together, not only the popular songs of the day, but music of the masters as well. Much has been said about their mother's love for music. She taught her children to love it, too. Ned, her oldest brother, dark and handsome, an outstanding athlete—ball player and fancy skater—had inherited his mother's strong voice and musical talent. An entertainer at heart, he spent hours in the evenings playing the piano, singing the operas of the day from memory, and telling humorous stories. Often Lester joined his older brother with his sweet tenor, and Ray's rich contralto harmonized beautifully with her brothers' voices in duets and trios. Lester was the literary one. He worked on the school paper, was an active member of the school's debating society, memorized quickly and could 407 June 1967 quote Shakespeare fluently. His interest later turned to law, which he studied and subsequently practiced for a short time. Ray, eager to learn, was especially happy when she could read. Instruction was given at the elementary and high school held in the original Seventeenth Ward meetinghouse on Second North between West Temple and First West Streets, a few blocks from her home. At last she could discover for herself the secrets contained in those volumes in her father's library. Of the many books he had brought from the East, one set was especially inviting to Ray, Junior Classics, the best from the world's greatest authors. She was in her glory as she read, and read, and read. In fact she read so much, her mother was afraid she would impair her eyesight. Hen she wasn't reading, she was practicing the piano. Drilling the scales, playing her exercises, or memorizing a favorite selection were seldom a drudgery, but a pleasure. The instrument upon which she played was one of the handsomest in the valley. This stately, mahogany grand piano, with elaborately carved legs, had journeyed across the plains. It was one of three brought to Salt Lake City by John R. Robbins and presented to his daughter Emma Louise Riggs. It was a source of pride and boundless pleasure for members of the Riggs family, their friends, and acquaintances. Frequently, Ray's mother took time from her voice and piano pupils to teach her daughter. All her life Ray not only enjoyed this talent herself, but she brought many hours of pleasure to others with her playing. From her mother and grandmother Robbins, Ray learned the art of homemaking. She helped with the daily household chores, with the cooking and cleaning. If one of the coal-oil lamps was low in oil, sputtered with an untrimmed wick, or failed to produce a bright light because of a cloudy chimney, it was Ray's fault. The lamps were, for the most part, her responsibility. It was late one Saturday afternoon when Ray finished cleaning her grandmother's house. "Is that all right, Grandma?" she questioned, hoping for a word of praise for her afternoon's work. "Oh, I guess so," sighed her grandmother. "Just tell me what else you want done and I'll be glad to do it," offered the willing Ray. | "You haven't dusted the tops of the pictures."' Ray complied by doing this. Her grandmother expected thorough- 408 Emma Ray Riggs McKay ness. By doing tasks well in her youth, Ray learned to be immaculate in her housekeeping. = There were socks to mend, sewing to be done, and the weekly washing and ironing to do. These latter tasks were the most difficult. First, the clothes were soaked overnight, then boiled in lye water on top of the stove and, finally, scrubbed by hand on a washboard in a metal tub of homemade soapsuds. Ironing, an all-day chore, was accomplished with heavy flatirons heated on top of the stove. On many hot summer days, Ray stood pressing long, full petticoats, with the coal stove burning fiercely, perspiration dripping down her face. It's a wonder she didn't faint. A rich pioneer heritage was hers and she delighted in listening to the story of her grandparents' conversion to the gospel in the East. Desiring to join their fellow members of the Church in Salt Lake City, the John Robbins family had two choices: one, to travel by land across the plains, or two, to sail with the Sam Brannan Company by boat around Cape Horn to San Francisco. They decided to go by water. With spirits high, they boarded the ship Brooklyn, not dreaming it would take them six months to complete their journey. Two small sons were buried at sea; a baby daughter was born on the Pacific and appropriately named Anna Pacific Robbins, who later became Ray's aunt and the mother of Nell and Bell Barrett. Love for the gospel was instilled in Ray as a child. The family was taught to be consistent in saying individual and family prayers and in attending Sunday School, in the Seventeenth Ward chapel. Her testimony developed through Church activity. At seventeen, after completing a teaching course under Dr. George H. Brimhall, she taught Primary in her ward. Two years later she became a Sunday School teacher. She loved to teach. Before she was graduated from college, she did some substitute teaching in one of the elementary schools. Her pupils cried when she had to leave. Recently, a woman who was a member in her class at that time reminded her of this experience and remarked that she had never forgotten what an excellent teacher she was. Ray was about eighteen when her mother called to her one day to look out of the front room window. Joining her mother, Ray was impressed by what she saw. Two tall, handsome young men, each holding an arm to help their mother up the walk, were accompanied by their two younger sisters. "See, Ray, how attentive the boys are to their mother. They will make fine husbands for some fortunate girls someday." While attend- 409 June 1967 ing the University of Desert, these young people were to be tenants of her mother's home for the next two years and were to be numbered among Ray's best friends. Little did she realize then that six years hence, the dear friends would be her brother and sisters, and David O. McKay, the dearest one of all, her beloved, lifelong companion. Ray, too, was attending the University of Deseret. One day as she was walking down a corridor she heard someone speaking. Noticing the door of the room ajar, she stood in the hallway and listened to a talk given by young David O. McKay before the Normal Society. That young man will amount to something someday, she thought to herself. N June 1897, David O. McKay, president of his class, was graduated from the normal school and was chosen to be the valedictorian. During the commencement exercises, Ray, thrilled by his words, wondered whether she would ever see him again. She was overjoyed when, in July of that same year, Jeannette and Ann McKay invited her to Huntsville to attend David O.'s missionary farewell, and she willingly accepted. That evening after the program, David O. Walked Ray from the chapel to the McKay home, holding her hand all the way. They agreed to correspond while he was away. The month of August found Ray busy and worried as she took care of her ailing mother. It was a bitterly sad August 29, 1897; Ray was heartbroken; her sweet mother had passed away. Later in life, when she was Utah's Mother of the Year, Ray paid a sincere public tribute to this capable woman: ''My mother set me a wonderful example, for she had to the 'nth degree all of the qualifications required by the Golden Rule Foundation for a good mother—courage, cheerfulness, patience, affection, kindness, understanding, and homemaking ability."' Following her mother's death, Ray plunged into her University studies. Keeping busy helped to fill the deep void caused by this untimely tragedy. The year 1898 was Ray's final one at the University, terminating in her being graduated in June with a B. A. Degree. She was one of six in that year's graduating class. When school closed, she traveled to Cincinnati where she enrolled in the College of Music and studied piano. Growing homesick for her friends in the West, she returned and accepted a teaching position in the Madison Elementary School in Ogden, Utah. On her first day of teaching, the principal followed her into the ee a 410 Emma Ray Riggs McKay room and introduced her to the class. Then he pointed to a little boy who was sitting on the right side of-the room and remarked aloud, "Miss Riggs, you might have trouble with that boy down there. He has been a disciplinary problem ever since he entered the class. Now, if you have any trouble, you just send him to me and we will see that he behaves himself."' She noticed that he colored with embarrassment as he slumped down in his seat. She felt sorry for him. After the principal left, she took time while the pupils were studying to write a note. As she walked down the aisle, she slipped this note into the little boy's hand unnoticed by the rest of the class. On the note she had written, "I don't believe what the principal said about you. I am sure you are a fine boy and that you will give me your best this year." Later, his mother told her that he took the note from his pocket for her to read and said, "'Be sure to return it, Mother, because I want to wear it next to my heart." He was cooperative all that year. He grew to be one of Ogden's outstanding citizens, a fine man. Just before he was released from his mission, David O. Received an appointment by mail to teach at the Weber Stake Academy in Ogden, which he readily accepted. The courtship which had begun at his missionary farewell blossomed through correspondence, and was continued in earnest for a year and a half after he returned from Scotland, in August 1899. One colorful autumn afternoon under a graceful umbrella tree, he proposed to her in Lester Park in Ogden. She was thrilled, but answered, "Are you sure you want me?" "Yes. I am very sure," smiled her sweetheart. They became engaged. It was some months later, January 2, 1901, when David O. Called for Ray in his horse-drawn hack to drive her three blocks to the Salt Lake Temple. Here they were married by Elder John Henry Smith to be companions for eternity. "Though it was crisp, zero weather, our hearts were warm and we didn't feel the cold," Ray recalls. Following the ceremony, they drove back to the home of her cousin Bell White to complete last-minute preparations for that night's reception. The next day the happy couple traveled on the old Bamberger Electric train to Ogden. They visited at David O.'s Aunt Mary's, hitched the team to their fringed surrey, and drove to Huntsville where they started their married life. They have been considering each other's needs and problems ever since. From the first, Ray knew that a successful marriage has to be worked for, not just in the first six months of wedded bliss, or the first five or ten years, but each day the couple are together—forever. 411 June 1967 Photograph by C. R. Savage A year prior to their marriage, David O. McKay had been called to the Weber Stake Sunday School board and later became second assistant to Superintendent Thomas B. Evans. In this community, also, he was well established in his teaching career at Weber Academy, so they made their first home in Ogden at 2247 Monroe Avenue. In April 1902 he was appointed principal of Weber. While her husband was busy with his responsibilities as the academy's chief executive and a stake auxiliary leader performing his Church duties, Ray was concerned not only with the problems of bringing children into the world and of rearing them in an atmosphere of love and kindness, but of being a loving companion to her husband as well. During her early married life she traveled 2 ee many miles in a horse-drawn Emimalay 'Riggs at thease of iWelve buggy holding a baby on her lap so she could be with her young husband and encourage him as he visited wards in the area on speaking assignments. "I have a husband who wants me to be with him and I am glad to do what he wants me to do at all times," was her resolve. "It warms my heart when I look down in the audience and see her sitting there," her husband has said repeatedly. HOW SHE TRAINED HER CHILDREN When Ray sat in the congregation and first heard the announcement of her husband's appointment as a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles at the April 1906 general conference, she began to cry. Though her joy was great at this deserved honor and recognition of his spiritual worthiness and leadership capabilities, she knew in her heart that this important assignment would require him to spend considerably more time away from her and their little ones. In the 412 Emma Ray Riggs McKay years that followed, he did have to spend two and three weeks away from home for stake conferences, for the General Authorities traveled by horse and buggy. But she was equal to her increased responsibilities as homemaker and mother, teaching her children to be prayerful, helpful, honest, thoughtful of others, and faithful in their Church duties. Mothers ask ''How did she rear her children?" The following are some incidents in their lives. LL meet the needs of their growing family, a larger house was built on 676 Twenty-first Street which served as home from 1904 to 1920. The children were trained to help in the home. One of the earliest recollections of her oldest son is of helping his mother on washday. She began the laundry process by transferring the overnight soaked clothes into an elongated boiler on the coal stove and boiling them in lye water as she had learned to do as a girl. She then used the handle of a broom, from which all of the paint had been scraped, to move the clothes from the boiler to the washer. Her son turned the washer. It was a great day for him when a motor was attached to the washing machine and he was relieved of this chore. It was his duty, also, to make a fire every morning in the kitchen stove, and, later, in the furnace. Milking and caring for their cow were his responsibilities as well. Sometimes the children helped her pluck the feathers from chickens which had been dipped in boiling water, then dunked quickly in a tub of cold water so the pluckers wouldn't burn their hands while they worked. The cleaned chickens were then singed over a flame to burn the fine hairs, fried to a golden brown, and served on Sundays or for night meals. Sometimes her children churned butter from thick, sweet cream skimmed from the top of their pans of cooled milk. She traded at a little corner grocery store located half a block away, charged each time, then paid the bill at the first of the month. Once, as she was reviewing her charge slips, she noticed several marked "candy." Upon questioning the children, she found one to be the guilty party. Instead of becoming angry and spanking him, she took him firmly by the hand and walked with him to the store. She had him apologize to the storekeeper for charging candy without his parents' permission. This punishment was far more effective to impress the principle of honesty on the youngster than a spanking would have been. She then provided an opportunity for him to earn a little spending money by giving him the responsibility of the white Leghorn chickens they kept in the back yard. He fed them and gathered the 413 June 1967 eggs. When his mother had used all the eggs she needed, she allowed him to keep the rest, which he washed and saved. As soon as he had a dozen, he soid them at the store for his spending money. Next door to their home was a vacant lot. One day one of the boys, while in this field retrieving his runaway chickens, stumbled onto someone's stray rabbit. Forgetting the chickens momentarily, he gave chase to the bunny, caught it, took it home, and improvised a pen out of a cardboard box, intending to keep the pet. Noting his activity, Mother reminded him that the rabbit wasn't his. It belonged to somebody else. "Oh, please let me keep it. We don't know who the owner is," pleaded her little boy. "We'll speak to Papa when he comes home." On the principle of honesty the two parents were united in their stand. The rabbit must be returned to the field. In a few minutes the boy re-entered the house still carrying his furry treasure. "Why didn't you let it go?" "T did, but it kept coming back to me," he hedged. Gently, his mother accompanied him to the field and stood beside him as he reluctantly placed the bunny on the ground and watched it hop away. Sensing his grief, she felt as sad as he did. A week later a pair of rabbits was bought and given to him to care for as his own. Every day this son had to walk several blocks to find clover or alfalfa to appease the appetites of his ever-increasing group of rabbits. Across the street lived Miss Seaman, the principal of his school, who grew a large plot of lucerne in her back yard. One day, in his searching, he spotted this plot, so conveniently near his home. He was overjoyed at his good fortune. Crawling through a hole in the fence, he hurriedly picked the tender lucerne, stuffed it carefully into his gunny sack, climbed back through the hole and, with the full pack slung over his shoulder, ran whistling to his hungry pets. This he continued to do. It wasn't long before Miss Seaman, peering out of her window, noticed a neatly cleaned area in her green patch. With diligent watching, she soon discovered the culprit and called his mother on the phone. His mother was humiliated. To think a son of hers would do such a thing! He must go with her to apologize. That was a blow. It was bad enough to have to say he was sorry to the groceryman, but to his principal! This was too much. Though he pleaded, promising never to do it again, his mother was adamant. He gave the apology and was made to understand he wasn't permitted to go into her 99 414 Emma Ray Riggs McKay yard again. His mother instructed him, "If you want rabbits, you'll have to look around for food for them." She could be lenient when the questioned act didn't hurt the child or infringe upon another's rights. She asked one of her boys to go to Miller's Butcher Shop on Washington Avenue, several blocks away, for some pickled onions. On the way home, he tasted one. It tasted so good, he kept eating them. The carton was only half full when he arrived home. His mother remarked, "Oh, you like these, do you?" He was relieved that she hadn't scolded him. "If you obey me, nothing will happen to you." He was convinced that if he were hurt, it was because he had disobeyed. Once he piled several boxes on top of one another to stand on so he could reach to string some ropes across the room. He was cautioned by his mother to use a chair. Not heeding her advice, he climbed on the tier of boxes and fell, but he didn't cry because he knew he had disobeyed. To help her children develop an interest in things, Ray let them have patches of the garden for their own. With considerable patience, she showed them how to plant pansy and violet seeds, reminded them to water them daily, then shared their pleasure when the tender shoots appeared and the flowers blossomed. Ne morning in March 1916, David O. McKay was severely injured and hospitalized after a serious car accident in the canyon. That night when Ray called one of the boys to eat his dinner, he refused, saying he was fasting and praying for his papa's recovery. The next morning he asked his mother what he could do to help. She suggested he pick a bouquet of his pansies. This he did and walked nine blocks carrying his offering personally to the hospital. This sincere display of affection not only cheered the patient, but was treasured through the years by a grateful father and proud mother. Ray loved to be with her children. One boy remembers he lived only a block away from his elementary school, but, to be able to eat in a hurry to have more time for ball playing, he asked repeatedly if he could take his lunch to school. It would have been easier for her to prepare a sandwich, and have him away for the day, but instead she said, "I would much rather have you come home at noon." "But why?" "Because I just want to see you. I like to have you home." This made him feel that he was wanted and loved. She believed that each occasion shared with the children strength- 415 # AEN CO eA 8 ty ae ~ —< | wk Wit Cores ") Emma Ray plays the piano for her husband President David O. McKay Ne) om ~t Emma Ray Riggs McKay ened her relations with them, so she spent a lot of time with her children. Often she sang to them by the stove in the dining room before the furnace was installed. There were always lullabys to help her children go to sleep. She drilled them with their spelling, or in other ways helped them with their studies. If members of her family were in plays she practiced with them, giving them their cues. At the end of their performances she was always ready to praise, but only when commendation was deserved. If needed, she suggested ways for improvement. "'Now in such and such a scene, we couldn't hear you very well," for example. With her children, too, Ray spent a lot of time teaching them how to read, starting on a primer she had bought entitled The Sunbonnet Babies. She encouraged them to go over and over the pages, sounding out the words, until they knew The Sunbonnet Babies and other books by heart. As a result, they were readers when they entered school and were placed in high first or in the second grade. She also started her children on the piano, and though some of them played other instruments later, she maintained that learning the piano was an important foundation upon which to base a music education and appreciation. She played duets with them. One of her sons played the violin. She accompanied him in Church or on programs where he was asked to perform. She was present when any of her children performed in any way. She always showed an interest in their various accomplishments and activities. When her children made a grammatical error in their conversation, she corrected them each time and gave the reason for the proper usage, thus giving them good training in English. On the day her oldest son left for his first day at school she was apprehensive. Would he be subjected to swearing and other bad language from which he had been sheltered these six years? He returned at the end of the day and she inquired, "Well, dear, did you hear any bad language today?" "Yes, Mother." "Oh! That's too bad. What did you hear?" "" 'Ys' for 'are,' '' was his reply. Recently this son, now a prominent attorney, visited his parents. Thinking his mother was asleep on the couch, he passed by her and walked directly across the room to greet his father. As they were conversing, his eighty-nine-year-old mother raised her head and remarked, ''You made a grammatical error." "'There's nothing like a grammatical error to awaken your mother," laughed her husband. (To be concluded) a ee — = = = — — = — ee eee 417 For Successful Family Home Evenings Belva B. Ashton Member, General Board of Relief Society = Robert Frost has one of his characters in "The Death of the Hired Man" say, "Home is the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in." A wonderful woman whom af know well told a group of us that her teenage daughter once asked her, "Mother, why are you nicer to everyone else than you are to us?" Knowing this woman as I do, I am sure she does love and serve her family, but in a humble, sweet way she suggested that perhaps too often each of us saves her "special" manners, "kind" words, and "encouraging" smiles for friends and acquaintances, supposing any action will be accepted by those with whom we live —they will "love" us no matter how we treat them! Or, in the words of Robert Frost, "They have to take you in." However, a song from "Showboat" says, "It ain't necessarily so." And it is not necessarily so! Homes are not automatically filled with love. There ls need to apply gospel teachings in our lives every day and with every person. Most certainly we should be 418 Left to Right: Randall Holt, thoughtful and considerate with the members of our family. Learning how to live better must be worked at the year around— summer and winter. But here it is—June! In the Northern Hemisphere trees are green with leaves and some are colorful with blossoms. Skies are blue and birds are singing. Streams are rushing downhill over smooth pebbles, fish are jumping in cool lakes. Children are busy with chores or playing, and fields are newly planted. Summer has arrived! Summer is a wonderful, delightful time. Activities, imterests, chores, and responsibilities change, and with this change in routine and activities, something else often happens.. - FAMILY HOME EVENINGS ARE OFTEN PUT ASIDE. This would olt, Violet P. Passey, Jeffrey Holt not be serious if bad habits also "went on vacation" during the summer, but, unfortunately, such is not the case. How can any of us—adults or children—choose the right if we do not constantly, day by day, learn and practice the right? This ability to choose and live wisely is what I envision the Family Home Evening can help us do. It does not automatically happen in the home of the active Church member, nor in the home of the inactive believer. It more often happens, when conscientious and prayerful teaching and _ living make it happen. It is neither easier nor harder to hold regular Family Home Evenings in the summer than in the winter. In both cases there are forces which tend to draw us away. The only difference is that For Successful Family Home Evenings the reasons or activities may be different. In the winter there are school activities, studies, social events, and other such involve- ~ ments. In the summer it may be employment, summer trips, and so forth. In making the transition from winter to summer activities and interests, we may neglect planning for Family Home Evening and miss several weeks almost before we realize it. We. Are thus neglecting. Opportunities to strengthen ourselves and our families even though bad habits and bad influences are still at work. In the Southern Hemisphere the process for seasonal planning would be reversed. The qualities and habits of a happy home life can be learned or developed. The qualities which make a good, happy home can be acquired. It is extremely important that a concerted effort be made to bring family members closer together. It requires planning and effort. It is not easy nor automatic. If we should have learned one thing from our Cultural Refinement lessons this past year, it is that any improvement in personality benefits the one making the improvement more than anyone else. The mother who treats her family with love and consideration will not only bless her family, but will have significant personal growth and personal inner happiness. Perhaps those who will benefit the most from holding regular Family Home Evenings will be ourselves—the women. We need not look at our children nor our husbands as having a monopoly on the need to apply gospel teach- 419 June 1967 ings in their lives. If we do not possess "their" faults we must assuredly have "our"? Own to overcome. I interviewed many women in the preparation of this article and, in every case where Family Home Evening is being held regularly, the woman expressed her conviction of its great worth in the growth of love, understanding, and loyalty within the family. Not one, however, said this success came easily. It is a continuing challenge. In every case where thoughtful and creative planning of the Family Home Evening has been carried out, I universally received the response that the results did merit the effort and planning. The change of routine from winter to summer can have an exhilarating effect on the Family Home Evenings, if families plan for it and are cognizant of the opportunities. Family Home Evening may be held in different surroundings out-of-doors: around a campfire, in a back yard, in a canyon, or on a family overnight camp. Home evening may be held with relatives or at an historic or sentimental place. It may even be held in a car as a family travels together. Some of the most intimate visits with family members or friends have been while traveling. The physical closeness tends to create an emotional closeness. All of the elements of safety should be observed, and family members should be well-rested and not overly hungry. Most Family Home Evenings, in both winter and summer, however, will be held in home surroundings. This is not nec- 420 essarily a detriment. The women I interviewed did make suggestions as to things which have helped make their Family Home Evenings more enjoyable and meaningful and, since they may be helpful, I should like to share their ideas with you. RELAXED ATMOSPHERE At the conclusion of a thoroughly frustrating Family Home Evening, when one child had been sent to his room and others had vied with each other to lead the singing or play the piano or outspeak one another, and had been corrected in rather loud and harsh tones, the woman said to her husband in the privacy of their own room, "Honey, if ever there is a time in our home when love is not present it is when we try to hold Family Home Evening. It seems to do more harm than good in our family." Knowing the importance of following the counsel of our Church leaders, they decided carefully to evaluate what was happening to cause this failure. Among other things, they decided there were three primary areas of weakness: (1) Their Family Home Evening was a strict teaching situation. They decided to encourage a more relaxed atmosphere. (2) Through actions and comments of the husband and father, it was made to appear as '"Mommy's" home evening. He came to realize that he was creating an impression he had not meant to give. He became convinced of the importance of his role of leadership and of presiding. (3) Assignments were made in ty ae St ed Sasi advance for leading the singing, playing the piano, or other participation, so that children were not "yelling" for the privilege of doing those things. These very few and simple adaptations have since created an entirely different atmosphere in their Family Home Evenings. TEEN-AGERS Don't be overly sensitive to teen-agers' reactions. They often enjoy Family Home Evenings and get more out of them than one would ever guess from observing them. Don't terminate Family Home Evenings just because they don't bubble over with enthusiasm. After a sixteen-year-old daughter had destroyed the spirit of teachability and love of a home evening through her bored expressions, disinterested attitude, and flippant replies, the mother had a private conversation with her. Left to Right: Owen R., Wendell J., Belva, Marged (holding baby), Allys n, Kay R., Ay " ie erg? Sex ae eat ny eae 2h OE ANE, eas BBLS a seat SMe The mother asked, 'Jane, do you believe the gospel is true?" The daughter, abashed at such a seemingly foolish question, responded, '"'Well, Mom, that's a silly question. You know I do." To which the mother said, "If you were a parent and were commanded to hold Family Home Evening, would you hold it?" The girl responded in the affirmative, and the mother said, "That's what Dad and I are trying to do, but your attitude makes it very difficult for us. The younger children look up to you and want to do the same things that you do. You could help make it a success." "T'm sorry, Mother."' This direct, private, and polite conversation made a big difference in that home. The father who was then an Aaronic Priesthood adult began to teach the lessons and preside at the home evenings. His own teachable spirit was influenced through those les- 421 June 1967 sons and other Church activities, and he has now taken his wife to the temple. This family attests to the wonderful influence of these lessons in their lives. SIMPLIFY We often allow our lives to become too complicated. One mother told me that the greatest contribution she feels she makes toward a successful home evening is to plan her personal activities on that day toward being ready for home evening. She has learned through experience to eliminate the extra errand, the additional chore, or the brief stop at the grocery store or cleaners. She decided it was necessary to keep her life as simple as possible on that day. With the right kind of preparation in the home, she found dinner could be served on time and home evening could then start on schedule. Older children were willing to participate because they realized they could count on when it would be over. PERSONALIZE The lessons which are most successful and have the greatest appeal are those which are personal to the family. The more this can be done, the better. In one Family Home Evening before the eldest daughter was married, the family, quite casually, under the direction of the father, expressed how much this sister and daughter had meant to each of them and how much they would miss her. It was one of the sweetest and happiest moments in their family life to hear their returned missionary son tell of his love and appreciation for his sis- 422 ter, and how much he would miss sharing confidences with her. Another family took a lesson on pioneer heritage during an outing at Lake Powell. Several families of cousins were along, and the entire group climbed to Hole in the Rock and heard true stories of their own ancestors and other pioneers. Being in such rugged, beautiful surroundings, it was easier to visualize some of the physical hardships which their forefathers had experienced. Another mother had _ been working on personal histories of progenitors. She had pictures and stories, and each child chose which progenitor he would tell about. The family members divided into groups of two or three so that older children could help younger ones and, after a time of preparation, they made their reports to the family. Each progenitor thus discussed has_ become more real to the members of that family. TIMING Young children do not have the ability to sit quietly for long periods of time, and older members of the family often have commitments which require them to be free at a certain time. On special occasions, when agreed upon by family members, home evening activities may take longer than usual, but, in general, young people will cooperate in reserving time for home evening if they know when it will end. PRESCHOOLERS Many good suggestions are presented in the Family Home Evening Manual for adapting home evening lessons to very young children. Simply making a special occasion by putting a tablecloth on a certain table, playing games, or having a favorite person come in, will develop an atmosphere of anticipation and fulfillment toward family-centered activities. This will not only make little ones happy at the time, but will build a wonderful attitude toward future home evenings when deeper lessons can be taught. GRANDPARENTS Ideas have been presented in this and other Church publications for making home evenings valuable and _ interesting for couples whose families are no longer at home. In addition to enriching their own lives, if they know the lesson material in the Family Home Evening Manual, grandparents can often be a blessing to their children and grandchildren by (1) reinforcing teachings which have been presented by the parents, or (2) discussing lesson information and appropriate stories with grandchildren who may not have Family Home Evenings. One grandmother told me she cherished such an opportunity of sharing gospel truths with her grandchildren on a level of 'their ability to understand. The guidance of. The Family Home Evening Manual in this situation is most helpful. LISTEN TO CHILDREN Home evening can be a wonderful opportunity for parents to listen to their children, as well as teach them. Make it possible For Successful Family Home Evenings for the reticent child to talk. He will not fight distractions. EXPERIMENT If your Family Home Evening is working well, then continue as you are doing. If, on the other hand, it is not working as well as you would like, experiment with other ways of doing things. Be alert to new ideas, but above all don't give up... Keep trying. There are solutions and the effort will be worth it to everyone in your family. It is important to have Family Home Evening and it is equally important that parents take the time to plan and prepare for home evening. One cannot teach the material in a personal, meaningful way if thought has not been given to it. To bury one's nose in the manual, to use every illustration or story which is written, or not to relate the material to one's own family, can be "quick death" to interest and personal involvement. In the introductory remarks of the Family Home Evening Manual it says: "No other family is just like yours. Everything in any lesson may not be appropriate for your family. Please omit material which you or your children do not need or could not relate to. This will give you more time to get involved with the application and assignment. The idea is not to go from one subject to another as fast as you can, but rather from a bad habit to a good habit. In our homes, let us change Robert Frost's words to these: ""Home is the place where, when you want to go there, they want to take you in." 423 =" The fundamental principles of the everlasting gospel were presented in strength and beauty at EDITORIAL the 137th Annual Church Conference in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 6th, 8th, and —__ 5 Oth, 1967. This year, the great — = —— domed Tabernacle, once called ''a glory in the desert,'' is one hundred years old, and within its sacred walls the voices of latterThe 137th Annual day prophets and apostles have counseled the saints; and anthems Church Conference of praise have been heard throughout a century. In addition to the usual radio and television coverage in many countries of the world, the first — — transmission of proceedings to Mexico and Central America com- ' forted and inspired an estimated three million viewers and listeners. The Sunday morning session was Volume 54 June 1967 Number 6 mi Belle S. Spafford, President carried to Hawaii for the first time Wi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor by use of the satellite "Lani Bird," ME Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor in orbit 22,300 miles above the Wi Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Pacific Ocean. President David O. McKay, beloved prophet, seer, and revelator, now in his ninety-fourth year, preAnna B. Hart Hazel S. Love;. Edith S. Elliott Fawn H. Sharp sided at all sessions and appeared Florence J. Madsen Celestia J. Taylor in the Tabernacle personally for Leone G. Layton Anne R. Gledhill Blanche B. Stoddard —_ Belva B. Ashton two of the sessions, Thursday Evon W. Peterson Zola J. McGhie morning and Sunday morning. He Aleine M. Young Oa J. Cannon. Josie B. Bay Lila B. Walch watched the other sessions by Alberta H. Christensen Lenore C. Gundersen = television in his apartment. His Mildred B. Eyring Marjorie C. Pingree Edith P. Backman Dariene C. Dedekind § three eloquent and vital messages Winniefred S. Manwaring Cleone R. Eccles were read by his son Robert R. Ci 4 wae eu Gowen. McKay. All General Authorities Mary V. Cameron Kathryn S. Gilbert were present at the conference, cont ae te pigeon with the exception of Elder Harold Fanny S. Kienitz Alice C. Smith B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve, ate ae. Een who was confined to his home due Alice L. Wilkinson Zelma R. West to illness. Irene W. Buehner Leanor J. Brown Irene C. Lloyd Reba 0. Carling | In his opening address, President McKay emphasized the responsibility of the Church and its individual members in helping to combat the pervasive social' evils of the present day. 424 Among the glaring evils of our day are two which seem to be most detrimental, and which must be curbed if we would preserve true Christian ideals. These are: First, an increasing tendency to dishonor the marriage vow; and Second, the moral decline and the mounting juvenile delinquency.... The mission of the Church is to minimize and, if possible, eliminate these evils from the world. It is evident that we are in-need of a unifying force to eliminate these evils. Such a unifying force, such an ideal is the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It explains man's life and its purpose, and has within it the vital saving elements, noble ideals, and spiritual uplift for which the human heart is yearning. President Hugh B. Brown, in speaking of the divinity of the spirit, declared: Revelation is unfolding truth, whether in... The human mind, or a message from the Creator. It is the infinite becoming known. Death is not extinguishing the light but putting out the lamp because the dawn has come. Night never has the last word. The dawn is irresistible.... That the Savior conquered death, after having taken upon himself mortality, gives us the divine assurance that our spirits also transcend death, and that our loved ones who have gone before still live. Our spirits are divine, for they are the offspring of Deity—therefore cannot be touched by death.... Life is the absolute power which overrules all else There can be no cessation. President N. Eldon Tanner spoke of the uplifting and saving power of love, patterned upon the mission of the Savior, and exemplified in the lives of noble men and women throughout the ages: If we are to have this love of which the Savior spoke, and which he emphasizes as being the most important thing in life, it must begin in the home and then carry into our daily lives. A happy marriage is never handed to a couple on a silver platter, but it is something that we have to build continually. If each will think of the other's comfort, convenience, needs, and happiness, and determine to see the best in each other, try to understand and express love for each other, there will be true love and harmony in the home.. As we look over our life, whether it be short or long, we realize that the thing that gave the greatest joy was doing something for someone else because we loved him. President Joseph Fielding Smith counseled all members of the 'Church to express their love for the Savior by obeying his commandments. There was only one way of redemption, one way in which reparation could be made and the body restored again to the spirit, and that was by an infinite atonement, and it had to be made by an infinite Being—someone not subject to death, and yet had the power to die.... And so, our Father in heaven sent us his Son Jesus Christ, into the world with life in himself. He could yield up his body to death and then take it again So his infinite atonement resulted in two things: (1) restoration of the body to the spirit, and (2) the redemption of those who accept the gospel of Jesus Christ and who will be loyal in the keeping of his commandments—freedom from their own sins. At the close of the conference, President McKay pleaded with the saints to keep the counsel and the messages, ''on the tablets of our memories." Let us make God the center of our lives. That was one of the first admonitions given when the gospel was first preached to man. To have communion with God through his Holy Spirit, is one of the noblest aspirations of life. It is when the peace and love of God have entered the soul, when serving him becomes the motivating factor in one's life and existence, that we can touch the lives of others, quickening and inspiring them... 425 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, received the Distinguished Achievement Award at Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, March 1, 1967. The citation, which listed many outstanding accomplishments of Sister Smith, mentioned ''her distinguished career as a soloist, her long service with the Tabernacle Choir, her: years of dedicated teaching of youth... And her devotion and support to her husband both at home and as a traveling companion to stakes and missions of the Church throughout the world.'' Mrs. Eleanor Johnson, a member of the Ottawa Branch of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, reigned as queen of Ottawa's Senior Citizens for Canada's Centennial 'Year's "observance (January 1967). Among those who honored the ''queen'' were Prime Minister of Canada Lester Pearson and his wife. Mrs. Johnson, eighty-three, has long been active in civic work and social service. She is presently editor of a monthly newspaper published by the residents of Island Lodge Geriatric Centre in Ottawa. Miss Lue Grosebeck was named professor of the Month at Brigham Young University in December 1966. This is the first time that a woman has been named to this honor at B. Y. U. Miss Groesbeck, who was born in Ogden, Utah, has been a teacher in several Utah school districts, and is at present a Professor of Music at B. Y. U. 426 Shirlee Slade Blackner (Mrs. Keith Blackner), Lyman, Wyoming, is one of the best known home economists in the United States. In 1966, she was awarded the 4-H Alumni Key in national competition. She was her State's delegate to the Triennial Conference of the Associated Country Women of the World, at Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1950. Mother of four children, she has served as an officer and a teacher in the auxiliaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and has been a ward Relief Society president. Mrs. Lurleen Wallace, newly elected Governor of Alabama, mother of four children, has announced that her administration will reflect ''the inner feelings of a wife and mother,'' and that she will advocate programs to increase the welfare of families. She is the third woman governor in the history of the United States. The others were Nellie Tayloe Ross of Wyoming and Miriam Ferguson of Texas (both elected in 1924), Zara Nelsova, distinguished cellist of international acclaim, and wife of Utahn Grant Johannesen, world-famed pianist, performed with the Utah Symphony Orchestra in March 1967 in an outstanding presentation of Ernest Bloch's '""Schelomo"' (Solomon) in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. This rhapsody has been called ''ancestral... The voice of sages and prophets,"' and Miss Nelsova's interpretation of the music was pronounced by critics as "definitive... Magnificent... Evocative.'' { t pret tk 5:33: Bp Ebi d a pele tinaee Synopsis: Nora Blake, alone in the world, secures a schoolteaching position in Banner, Idaho, where she lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latter-day Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a local rancher, and young Ben Wade, an orphan, who lives with Jed. Nora is astonished to find out that Jed cannot read and she offers to teach him. Finding a piece of land open for homesteading, Bishop Shepherd suggests to Nora that she homestead it. A mysterious elderly man, called Old Free, a non-Mormon, challenges Nora's interest. =" Nora returned to the barn to tell Sam about Trudy's death. Old Free stopped milking and sat listening. "Tell them not to worry about the coffin,' he said. "I'll make it." He brought it to the house the following afternoon. It was made of cedar, polished to a fine finish. The Golden Chain Hazel M. Thomson Chapter 5 The Relief Society presidency came to line it with a light pink lining. "About the dress, Bertha," said Sister Norton. "How would you like it made?" "No, we won't need a dress," said Bertha Shepherd. Nora saw that she was holding the blue velvet which she had cut down for Trudy from one of her own. "She loved this one," said Mrs. Shepherd, '"'so this is the one we will dress her in."' Nora was amazed at the spirit that prevailed in the Shepherd household after Trudy's passing. Each family member seemed to share the feeling that this was but a temporary parting, and that, sometime, they would again have Trudy with them. The funeral was an experience that she was to remember always. 427 June 1967 Even the songs sung by the ward choir echoed the same assurance displayed by the family. The words struck Nora's love-starved heart forcefully, and she remembered bits of them for days afterward: For a wise and glorious purpose Thou hast placed me here on earth, And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth. In the heav'ns are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason; truth eternal, Tells me I've a mother there. Could it be possible that she, Nora Blake, had really been placed here on earth "for a wise and glorious purpose?" she wondered. Could it possibly be true that she had, somewhere in the great heavens, a heavenly mother? Nora had never heard of this before, but she was attracted by the rationality of the idea, new to her as it was. And wonder of wonders! Could she—dare she hope that one day she might be reunited with her own parents? She thought of her mother's funeral and the cold emptiness of the service. "Dust thou wert and unto dust shalt thou return." As_ these words had been intoned by the minister, it had been as if a cold hand had clutched at her heart, but to Nora this funeral for a child was something quite different. And when Jed Oliver arose to deliver the funeral sermon, it seemed to Nora that he was speaking directly to her own lonely self. "Only at times of death, perhaps, do we really appreciate the blessings to be received in the 428 temple of God and the sealing power of the Priesthood. It is a Golden Chain, binding the family together through all eternity. Life, here, for all of us, is short. Maybe not so short as it has been for Trudy, but she is not lost to her family. Sometime, if they live to be worthy, as I am sure they will, this family will be reunited. And Trudy, the gay, delightful Trudy, that has been such a joy to her family, is now a link in their Golden Family Chain." Ture was mourning, of course, and sadness, yet Nora had never attended a funeral so filled with promise and hope. It gave to her a kind of peace that she never had before experienced. Certainly, nothing she had heard in previous Mormon meetings had touched her as had the things she heard that day. As the fury of the weather decreased, so did the number of cases of flu. By the first of February school had opened again, and Nora, grateful that somehow she had escaped the sickness, went eagerly back to her teaching. Ben continued to wait each day until after the other students had left to pick up any work Nora was sending to Jed. He was not as deficient in the subject matter of arithmetic as he had been in reading; still Nora found Jed to be quite lacking in his ability for general computation. The first step she had insisted that he take was to lay a background by learning his times tables. Jed had enjoyed this immensely. It was with a little flash of pride that he repeated the nineteens to her. "TI really didn't expect you to learn them that far,' apologized Nora. "I just assumed that you knew most people stopped at the _ twelves." "How about you?" Jed had asked mischievously. "Do you know your thirteens? Come on. I'll have you a contest." Nora had had to admit that she didn't. But she hadn't minded. There had been the old look of confidence on Jed's face that hadn't been there since he started the reading lessons, and Nora had been glad to see it return. As she took the paper from Ben, she was surprised to see the set of story problems she had sent with him the night before returned exactly as she had sent them. There were no answers. "He hasn't done these,' she said, holding the paper out toward Ben. "Here," she said, "take these back and tell him to work them before I send any more." Ben shook his 'head, not taking the paper. "He said he wasn't going to do them, Miss Blake, and to send some others." "Not going to do them? But why? Why does he want more before he has finished these?" The boy looked pained for a moment. Then he answered, "Jed says to tell you he's not going to do them, and you can either send some others or forget the whole thing." "T can't understand," Nora said. "He has enjoyed the arithmetic so. Why has he suddenly decided not to do his assignment?" "Well, take this first problem," The Golden Chain said Ben, reading from the paper. "" "A man had forty acres of ground. He sold half of it, and then three-fourths of what was left. How much ground did he sell?' I think that's as far as Jed read. He just threw the paper down on the table and said a man with only forty acres is a fool to sell any of it, let alone half of it in one whack. I tried to tell him that it was only a problem, not real or anything, and the problem was only fooling. He said, 'Land is nothing to fool around with, and you take these problems back and tell her to send me some others.' " Nora took the paper to her desk. Ben sat and waited while she wrote a new set of problems, trying to teach the same fractional fundamentals in differently worded problems. Bur, as Ben thanked her and took the paper, another thought came, a sobering one. Land! It was more important to Jed Oliver than anything else in the world, with the possible exception of his religion. "Land is nothing to fool around with." No, not to him, it wasn't. It was his real love, and Nora felt something that she recognized as a twinge of jealousy, wondering how she could ever become as important in Jed Oliver's life as a piece of good earth. Along with the reading lessons, of course, Nora had felt it was important to teach Jed to spell. He had a wonderful mind, needing but to read a page once to remember everything on it. That's the way it had been with spelling. 429 June 1967 Words began to have a particular fascination for Jed, and it was only a short time later that Ben asked if he might borrow the dictionary. "Why, of course,' Nora answered. "It's there on the desk." "TI mean to keep it home for awhile," continued the boy. "At home?" asked Nora. "But Ben, it isn't going to help you when it's at home, and you're here at school. Couldn't you bring it back in the morning so the other children can use it? There's only the one that belongs to the school and my own." Ben looked at her uneasily for a moment, and then he said, "Well, I'll tell you, Miss Blake. It isn't for me. It's for Jed." "Oh! Why, of course. Here. Take mine and tell him he may keep it as long as he likes. Is he having trouble with some of the meanings in that new reader?" "No," said Ben. "I don't know exactly how he does it, but once Jed hears a word or figures one out, somehow he seems to know what it means. No, it's not the meaning. It's spelling. That's all he wants to do. Spell, spell, spell! This is the list I gave him last night. Found them in The Book of Mormon." 99 430 "We spell until I'm so sleepy I can hardly keep my eyes open. Then, when I go to sleep, he reads. I know some mornings he's hardly been to sleep at all." During the last week in March there was a ward social, but Jed did not appear. Nora moved near to hear Ben's answer when Mrs. Shepherd asked where Jed was. "Oh, he's home," said the boy, piling his plate high with sandwiches and cake, and balancing a cup of punch on one side of it. "Home with a book." 'He must have some new ones," said Mrs. Shepherd. ''Miss Blake says he has read about everything you have at school." "No, Ma'am," answered Ben. "Tt's not a new one. It's the same one. Jed is learning the dictionary." Ben's words brought a general round of laughter from those who were near enough to hear. Nora paid no particular attention to them until the night of the annual school spelling bee. Then she had cause to remember them, "Jed is learning the dictionary," and indeed, it seemed that he had. The schoolhouse had a special attraction for Nora at night. The new electric lights seemed to give the room to which she had grown so accustomed in the daytime, a certain night-time magic. As president of the _ board, Bishop Shepherd gave a welcoming speech to students and parents, and then called upon Mr. Pine to open the gathering with prayer, as was the custom at all public gatherings in the little community. And then the spelling began. It was boys against girls, ranged in a line across the front of the room and reaching down either side. Nora gave the words, beginning with fairly easy words for the benefit of the very small, and proceeding to more difficult material as the younger children were, one by one, eliminated. From the many spelling experiences during the school year, Nora could have predicted it would be between Ben Wade and Ellen Shepherd to settle the contest, and so it was. But between the two of them, even Nora could not have predicted which one would be victorious on any given occasion. She certainly did not expect Ellen to misspell "cemetery," substituting an ''a" in place of the final ''e,"" which gave Ben a chance to pick up the mistake quickly and be declared the winner. After the applause had _ subsided, Bishop Shepherd again rose to his feet. "We want all of you boys and girls to know how proud we are of you," he said, ''as parents, and also as members of the School Board. Now, Ben has won the match, and it is the right of anyone in the audience who would wish to, to challenge the winner." The room was silent for a moment, the adults busy with their thoughts, many of them, no doubt, thinking that the boys and girls had spelled many words that they would hesitate to attempt themselves. However, after a good deal of joking among neighbors and husbands and wives, deciding which one would tend the baby, and which one would spell, a rather sizeable group stood in the The Golden Chain places occupied by their children a short time before. Nora straightened the spelling books on the desk in front of her, taking a certain security from them in their keeping her from actually participating in the contest. Everyone expected a good showing from the schoolteacher, and who could ever tell what would happen in a spelling match. Why, she might be spelled down in front of all the parents and students, and on an easier word than cemetery. But her hope to stay out of it was short-lived. With Mrs. Shepherd in the group of spellers, and Ellen looking after Robbie and Mark, it left the bishop free to offer to give out the words. "Go ahead, Miss Blake," he said, reaching for her book. "If you'll just show me where to begin, it will give you a chance to take part." "A chance," thought Nora, "that I can do very well without," but she surrendered the speller to the bishop and took her place on the ladies' side. Only then did she notice that Jed had taken a place on the end of the men's row. Her heart jumped, knowing his sensitive nature, knowing that he was very likely to get beaten easily, embarrassed in front of his entire town, but things were out of her hands. There was nothing she could do at this point. The bishop opened the book. "Anticipate," he said, and the spelling match of the evening had begun. It was long past eleven before everyone else was spelled (Continued on page 460) 431 The Holy Family by Andrea del Sarto (1486-1531), Italian (Rome, Galleria Nazionale) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson No. 2 "'Honesty, a Measure of Life." Floyd E. Breinholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University. = If one will study the paintings of any sincere artist he will find that in a very real sense the paintings are portraits of the artist himself—not of his physical likeness but of an indefinable quality of his whole personality. The subjects he chooses, the way he uses the paint, the parts which are emphasized, the content he selects are all fused together and we see something of the artist. This is not done consciously if he is sincere, but it is inevitable and unavoidable. Just as a man's handwriting speaks of his character, so an artist's work mirrors his personality. This is true in the work of Andrea del Sarto, known as "The Perfect Painter" by the Florentines of his day and whose character is so aptly described in Browning's poem. Art historians seem to substantiate what Browning says about him. Worldly splendor and vivacity had come into the life of his time. He was impressionable and sensitive to his time and thus was able to reflect this culture in his work. Although not necessarily religious by nature, he painted religious subjects to please the court and has been referred to as a "religious court painter." He had great honor in his day. We sometimes tend to deify men because of their works—artists are still men with strengths and weaknesses. Andrea's strength was in his great talent and craftsmanship, his ability to say what he had to say. There are a sweetness and underlying note of pathos and tenderness that give his work a genuine character, although perhaps not the greatest. Vasari, an artist, writer, and pupil of del Sarto's says, "Had this master possessed a somewhat bolder mind, had he been a more distinguished man, qualified by character as he was by artistic skill, he would have been without equal."' Lack of force and conviction in his nature took ardor and animation out of his creative works. Can you see Andrea del Sarto in his painting of '""The Holy Family"? This is a good example of his work in which he uses the classical Renaissance style— soft, warm light, rich color, unified tonality, and the chiaroscuro (strong use of light and shade) for which he was noted. The model for the Madonna was no doubt his beautiful wife Lucrezia whom he idealized in many of his paintings. Do you also sense a certain character about the painting which is difficult to describe in words, but which is nevertheless just as real and is a reflection of the personality of the artist? "THE HOLY FAMILY" by Andrea del Sarto (1486-1531) Transparency by Camera Clix 432 Mary lla's Wedding Cake (From a Family Heirloom Recipe) Mary Ila Flinders Homemaking Leader Centerville First Ward, Davis Stake, Utah 11% c. Shortening 3 c. White sugar 6 eggs 3 tsp. Vanilla 3 c. Sour applesauce 6 c. Flour (cake flour preferred) 114 tsp. Cloves 114 tsp. Nutmeg 114 tsp. Salt 3 tsp. Cinnamon 3 tsp. Soda 114 Ibs. Walnuts (may be cut in halves or smaller pieces, as preferred) 1 Ib. Seedless raisins 2c. Dates (cut in sizes preferred) Heat oven to 250 degrees (slow). Grease, then line with aluminum foil or brown paper two or three round loaf pans, as desired. (The above recipe was made twice for the cake in the picture. The bottom layer was baked in a 12-inch pan, and the top layer in a 6-inch pan. Both layers were four inches deep before baking. The middle fayer is made of styrofoam and iced over the surface.) Mixing the ingredients: Cream shortening and sugar together until fluffy. Beat in eggs, vanilla, and applesauce (add citron, if desired). Sift together flour, cloves, nutmeg, salt, cinnamon, and soda. Add slowly to the previous mixture and mix well. Fold in nuts, raisins, and dates. Pour into prepared pans and bake two hours. If larger pans are used, the cooking time must be increased in proportion to the size of the pans used. For this recipe, the smaller pan would be removed from the oven at the end of two hours, and the larger layer would be left in the oven an additional hour. Icing: Any plain white icing stiff enough to have good adhering qualities may be used for the first, or preliminary, icing for the cake. The intricate lace work is made from a meringue of whipped egg whites, to which enough powdered sugar has been added to make a consistency that will hold the lace work. Making the lacework is a difficult and exacting work and requires much skill and practice. A pastry bag is used for the process. Note: The cake in the picture was made by Sister Flinders for the 66th wedding anniversary of President David O. McKay and Sister McKay, January 2, 1967. 434 cca Artist Afton Davis displaying her work. East Long Beach (California) Stake Fine Arts Show The Fine Arts Show, open to Latter-day Saint artists, received 343 entries for exhibition, and more than seven hundred interested and appreciative patrons, students, and lovers of art attended, including a large percentage of the members of East Long Beach Stake Relief Society. So great was the interest in the exhibit that entries were received from artists outside of California, including Idaho, Arizona, and Utah. Two lovely portraits were entered by a young returned missionary from Tooele, Utah, who is partly blind. The Art Show was highly acclaimed and represents a cultural activity of Relief Society which proved to have great appeal for members, for their families and friends, and for many women who were introduced to Relief Society through this unusually beautiful and appealing exhibit. Color photographs by Richard Adams 436 Artist Ardith Oddous displaying her work. She served as general chairman of displays, Artist Bernice Houser displaying her own work. Sister Houser served as co-chairman of displays. 437 Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Embroidered Motifs by Florence G. Williams Embroidered Motifs Decorate Crocheted Afghan The regular afghan crochet stitch is used for making the vari-colored squares, which are set together with black woolen yarn. The fringe for the afghan shown in the picture was bought. Handmade fringe may be used, but the process of making such fringe is a long and tedious effort. The attractive "little people" who gaily appear upon each square of the afghan are illustrated in the accompanying diagram. For the hands, legs, and faces of the figures, use a fill-in stitch with fine flesh-pink yarn, split to one strand. Make the eyes blue with the same weight of yarn, and the mouth red and the hair yellow, brown, or black, as desired. Fill in the dress, hat, suit, and shoes with any color yarn desired, using a fine weight yarn. 438 Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Model Margaret Lloyd Embroidery by Florence G. Williams A Sweater That Blossoms With Flowers A white knitted sweater for a little girl is made bright and beautiful, as well as originally distinctive, by using fill-in embroidery stitches for rich and lovely flowers. Themes for similar designs could be worked out in flowers all of one color, or in tones and tints of a single color, or one could use all blue flowers, all red flowers, yellow flowers, or any colored desired. Also, the variety of petal shapes is almost endless. A "designing" woman might make sunflowers, chrysanthemums, daisies, cosmos, or imaginative shapes of flowers that never grew in any garden, and yet might make a little girl happy by their blossoming on her favorite sweater. A pale pink sweater, with flowers of deeper rose could be a gift of hap ness, or perhaps, a light blue sweater, with deeper blue blossoms. 439 om be delooiegi bib ong a TIAA Wh} os MA. Ora Wy 4\t ', IY ny Wh WV! AV MWA\WAn Re: Spinner of New Zealand Wool The ancient craft of spinning wool, now obsolete in many parts of the World, is still practiced with much satisfaction and success by Mary Vickers, President of the Fifth Ward Relief Society in Auckland, New Zealand. Not only is Sister Vickers an expert in spinning the high quality and worldfamous New Zealand wool, but she also dyes the wool and weaves it into lovely, useful articles, or knits and crochets many pieces of wearing apparel and dress accessories. Various plants are used as a basis for the brilliant colors of the wool—lichens, weeds, berries, onion skins, beet roots, and flowers. Sister Vickers continues to give demonstrations before Relief Society organizations and other groups of interested women. Included in her instructions are specific directions for selecting a fleece, preparation and carding of the fleece, spinning on a hand spindle and on a spinning wheel, vegetable dyes for wool, weaving of wool, and how to make a rug loom. In the picture, left to right, may be seen the following handcrafted articles: crocheted baby shawl, made from homespun Merino wool; ski socks; handwoven. Bag; knitted sweaters; hanks of yarn dyed with vegetable dyes; ski mittens; shades of natural fleece, from white through black. On the floor: hand-woven wall hanging, car cushion, bags. 440 Flower Show in Lost River Stake (Idaho) Mary B. Davies, President Lost River Stake Relief Society This picture of some of the lovely flowers grown in Lost River Valley is representative of the nine other floral displays which added much beauty to the flower show and Singing Mothers 4 concert held in August a 1966. The theme for the: + occasion was taken from the conference address of Sister Louise W. Madsen: "'Behold, I have set before thee an open door." Sy q* cunt ete * Mp * sh ees " ae Helen Four Eagle Boy ( and | Roseline Long Knife > E. Ae. Make Patchwork Quilt (968 Sitwell gull" oe oe Pal ae, eee Submitted by Viola Freyberger and Elder and Sister Kendrick Helen Four Eagle Boy and her daughter Roseline Long Knife of the Northern Indian Mission, together, have worked out an interesting and colorful project which has brought much joy into their lives. Roseline, who has been paralyzed from the waist down for many years, has been tenderly cared for by her mother who has provided the materials and assisted her daughter in making many lovely quilts and doing beadwork and other crafts. The family home is near Frazer, Montana. Sister Four Eagle Boy also cares for six grandchildren and hauls water for household purposes nearly a quarter of a mile on a little red wagon or sled. Sister Long Knife, rejoicing in her blessings as a member of the Church, pays a double tithing on sales of her handwork. Sister Four Eagle Boy recently joined the Church. 441 Transparencies by John A. Alius Variations of the Tortilla Leanor J. Brown Member, General Board of Relief Society, Mexico City, Mexico There was a time when the tortilla held no special place in my cookbook. Now I wonder how I ever got along without it. It makes a base for a variety of palatable casseroles, and is the essential part of those delectable concoctions called tostadas and tacos. There was also a time when I thought the tortilla belonged to all Latin America. Actually it is a food product of Mexico and Central America. If you were to ask for a tortilla in South America, they would probably give you a Spanish omelette. A torta is a cake in South America—at least in Southern South America—and in Mexico it is a sandwich. By dropping the a and adding the illa, you get what Mexico uses as the staff of life, or the unleavened bread made from corn. Another food that usually goes along with the tortilla is hot chili. Hot chili dishes and sauces do not go much farther south than the Mexican border in the Americas. Each Latin country has its own particular method of preparing foods. The most southern countries, such as Argentina and Uruguay, are greatly influenced by European cuisine, since the people are mostly of European origin. And of all things! Chile doesn't know what chili is—at least the hot, edible kind—and in Spanish chili is spelled chile. Have you ever wondered why we in North America call Mexican food Spanish food? They are entirely different. Spanish food is paella (rice cooked with seafoods, and all things great and small), flavored with tomatoes, onions, bell peppers, and other seasonings. Mexican food is tortillas, beans, enchiladas, tamales, tacos, and the like, most of which you couldn't find in Spain if you searched from San Sebastian to Sevilla. 442 Another interesting discovery I have made is that American - Mexican food, the kind you get in parts of the Southwestern United States, and the MexicoMexican food have very little in common. They neither look nor _ taste alike, although many dishes are called by the same names. Both are equally good, but very different. The latter is somewhat hotter! The following recipes have as a base the corn tortilla. You won't find them on the menu of any restaurant or in any cookbook, except a private one, because they are the result of attempting to please per- (Continued on page 462) 443 Mix-and-Match Wardrobes Ethelynn Keiser Work Director, San Jose West Stake (California) By developing the craft of sewing, and by thoughtfully planning to make the most of the sewing dollar, the Mix-and-Match Wardrobe is the answer to a "basic" problem. It is not only an economical way to have an excellent wardrobe, but it provides better made, better fitting, more original wardrobes, and a sense of creative accomplishment when a beautiful article of clothing is completed. In making a Mix-andMatch Wardrobe, it is a challenge in design to start with a three-color theme. First, choose a fabric, either plaid, check, tweed, or print, and from this tri-colored fabric, the theme is selected for combining the matchmates for the rest of the outfit. Skirts, blouses, sweaters, jackets, Jumpers, and weskits are all perfect matching partners. Any piece of the wardrobe, such as the suit, the dress, or the skirt, or weskit can be made of the tri-colored fabric. The rest of the pieces should be selected carefully so that the colors and fabrics can be worn compatibly together. Four beautifully designed and carefully sewed outfits were made for display and modeling at the San Jose West Stake fashion show, three of which are described and illustrated here. I. A Many Purpose (Everyday) Wardrobe The first model, Addie Jensen, had chosen to make a many-purpose (everyday) wardrobe suitable for Church, Relief Society, luncheons, or other similar occasions. She chose a bright print of orange, yellow, and olive green of 100 per cent rayon. From this tri-color fabric, she picked her color theme and made a beautiful mix-and-match wardrobe. There were (Continued) Fabrics for use with models on page 445 Everyday Wardrobe #1 eight different articles of clothing in her wardrobe, and these pieces combined in various attractive ways gave her fourteen different mix-and-match combinations. Il. A Second Version of a Basic Everyday Wardrobe The second model, Lee Zinke, chose a basic wardrobe with the same purpose in mind, to provide a number of becoming costumes for daytime and informal evening occasions. She selected a print fabric of olive green, beige, and hot pink of 100 per cent rayon for using as her color key. The suit which was made as a part of this outfit was almost an exact replica of one selling in a fine dress shop for $49.50. It cost Lee $12.50 to make the entire outfit. There are eight pieces in her wardrobe, which can be combined in twelve different ways. 446 Everyday Wardrobe #2 iti, A Dressy Wardrobe for Special Occasions Our third model, Estelle Wardle, made an elegant dressy wardrobe. She chose a lovely 100 per cent orlon material of red, dark blue, and light blue as her tri-colored theme. She made a beautiful 100 per cent wool coat in the light blue of her color theme. The coat can be worn with any of the other pieces of her wardrobe. She also made an elegant dark blue suit from a fabric called Veltessa. From the coat to the beautiful hostess skirt, Estelle's dressy wardrobe is truly stunning. She has nine separate pieces and can combine them in thirteen different ways. Our models polished or repainted their old shoes to match their new outfits, so that they could achieve a finished appearance and give their shoes new life and added usefulness. 447 Dress Wardrobe From the color pictures and the drawings, it will be seen that the mix-andmatch costumes are conservative and simple in design, and they can be made from patterns readily available in most areas where women do their own sewing. We realized more and more the merits of mix-and-match wardrobes, as we observed the many combinations available in planning wardrobes in this manner. Such outfits give those refreshing changes that make clothes more serviceable and useful, and by combining the various pieces to change her personality, a woman actually has more clothes to wear. Mix-and-match wardrobes can be as creative and inventive as the woman herself, and she can have a beautiful wardrobe by sewing her own clothing in the colors and designs that please her and enhance her feminine attractiveness. 448 MEDALLIONS OF ARTISTRY MARK HER YEARS " Eva Christena Otteson Evans, Hayward, California, is ninety-nine years old, and as she says, her handicraft has been a pleasure and an ornament over the years. She is now knitting a skirt, and she has been making quilts in many patterns since she was sixteen years old. Knitting was a familiar craft of her childhood days and very early she learned to make her own designs and to fit her stitches into clothing for use in the cold winters of her native town—Spanish Fork, Utah. She spun the wool from her father's sheep and dyed it in beautiful deep colors. She has made forty-two hooked rugs, fifteen sweaters, ten woolen stoles, six afghans, and numerous table covers, chair sets, pillow tops, and chair throws. Her handwork brightens the homes of her relatives and friends and is lovingly treasured as gifts of artistry. She is mother of eight children, grandmother to thirty-two, great-grandmother to 129, and great-great-grandmother to forty-six. She has served as an officer and teacher in Sunday School, Primary, and Relief Society, and was for many years a singer in the choir of her ward. 449 451 @ During 1966, 301,248 sisters throughout the Church, an increase of 14,428, were blessed in their individual lives, in their homes with their families, Annual in their Church service, and in their community activities through membership and participation in Report the world-wide program of Relief Society. Strengthened testimonies, increased understanding of principles of the gospel as they have application in the lives of women, greater skill and effectiveness in performing household duties and in home management have been a part of the benefits that have come tc Relief Society members regardless of whether they lived in Norway, Austria, Guatemala, Korea, Australia, the Islands of the South Seas, Argentina, United States or in any of the other countries throughout the world where Relief Societies are located —57 in total. The skills learned in the homemaking program have been applied to the cultures of the respective localities in making a total of 1,361,894 articles of clothing, quilts, household furnishings, and non-sewed handicraft items. Through the social relations lessons which were correlated with those studied by the Melchizedek Priesthood, Latter-day Saint women have been able to see more clearly their responsibility to human relationships that originate in the home and extend into areas of Church and community living. Increasing numbers of sisters have responded enthusiastically to their study of the new cultural refinement course dealing with literature and fine arts which reflect and motivate the development of desirable attributes and characteristics to be emulated in the life of every Latter-day Saint woman. The greater percentage of sisters attending regular Relief Society meetings is indicative of their appreciation and acceptance of the enrichment available to them through the varied courses of study which are carefully coordinated and guided under the direction of the Church Correlation Committee. Bounteous rewards of enlarged abilities, talents, and testimonies have also come into the lives of 196,259 Relief Society members who have served as leaders in carrying on the program of the organization, in 837 stake, district, and mission organizations and 5,972 ward and branch units throughout the Church. 1966 Marked progress has been made in the quantity and particularly the quality of visiting done by 130,301 visiting teachers, who, as emissaries of Relief Society assigned in pairs, have made 4,704,379— nearly five million—visits to families carrying with them a message of spiritual uplift and with a charge to observe any instance of need in the homes where they visited. Services given by Relief Society to the distressed and the aged have been far-reaching. A total of 753,371 hours of sympathetic, loveinspired service was given at the direction of Relief Society presidents, in addition to 395,181 visits to the sick and homebound, and also other services such as bedside nursing care and assistance to families at the time of death. At the direction of the Priesthood, 56,212 devoted women contributed 765,086 hours of service on Church Welfare projects, such as assisting at the canneries in processing vegetables, fruits, and meat products, and also in making clothing and household articles for the needy, As an aid to the bishops, Relief Society presidents made 99,512 visits and 86,812 other contacts to families needing assistance. Music continues as a vital aspect of the program of Relief Society. In addition to the development gained by its members through congregational singing in the regular meetings, 50,561 sisters have participated in 3,601 Singing Mothers choruses whose refining influence has, in turn, been carried over into their homes. The Relief Society Magazine, the Voice of Relief Society, which since June 1966 has been published in Spanish, as well as in English, is providing a direct channel of communication to thousands of LatinAmerican sisters. This marks a historic step forward in making available to this second largest language group in the Church the Magazine in their own tongue. This divinely established organization thus continues in its great mission of guiding and developing the women of Zion and aiding in building the kingdom of our Heavenly Father. Ahh iF Gong General Secretary'? Reasurer 452 1966 Geographical Distribution of Relief Society Organizations and Members in the United States IN STAKES IN MISSIONS TOTALS IN STAKES IN MISSIONS TOTALS OrganiOrganiOrganiOrganiOrganiOrganiAlabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Dist. Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Ilinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming United States 1966 Totals 1965 Totals zations | Members zations | Members] zations | Members zations | Members | zations 45 1,996 8 298 82 5,039 15 723 45 1,851 25 1,086 36 1,123 36 1,474 30 814 92 5,332 8 348 3 89 23 741 5 180 82 2,903 1,392 112,062 27 1,333 123 6,833 10 406 69 3,778 3,708 | 248,609 Members 2,442 459 5,039 183 723 2,169 1,620 1,307 188 1,571 814 5,999 1,157 89 889 288 774 3,535 112,062 142 1.815 7,112 430 570 3,778 261,614 3,578 | 236,158 248,897 1966 Geographical Distribution of Relief Society Organizations and Members — in other countries, IN STAKES IN MISSIONS TOTALS IN STAKES IN MISSIONS TOTALS OrganiOrganiOrganiOrganiOrganiOrganizations Members | zations | Members | zations Members zations Members | zations} Members] zations Members Korea 2: Lebanon:: Libya Mexico 0 xe 0 Netherlands New Zealand AQ f 5 576 E, e Nicaragua 3 Q Niue °: Norway, 0 A34 0 A34 Panama Canal Zone e e Paraguay ( ( f, Peru f Philippine Islands g Poland Puerto Rico Samoa s v 90 Scotland 2 AC: Singapore Spain: Sweden AG 4 Switzerland ( e Tahiti 0 0 Thailand.: Tonga d Turkey Union of South Afri Uruguay 0: 0 ° Vietnam q Wales. 0 - e Afghanistan Argentina Australia Austria Azores Belgium Bermuda Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile Cook Islands Costa Rica Denmark E] Salvador England Ecuador Fiji Islands Finland Formosa France Germany Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Ireland Italy Japan ~~ QI oe = e q oe Oo Ww &W eomicemee e =) QI oe e¢ oe oe ee Other Countries 347 | 12,368 | 1,330 | 27,266 | 1,677 39,634 453 U. S. Totals 3,708 |248,609 587 113,005 | 4,295 | 261,614 1966 Grand Totals [ 4,055 {260,977 1,917 |40,271 | 5,972 | 301,248 1965 Grand Totals [3,902 [247,395 1,945 [39,425 | 5,847 | 286,820 454 20 Year Membership Growth Increase 195,650 320,000 300,000 280,000 260,000 240,000 220,000 200,000 180,000 160,000 140,000 120,000 100,000 1946 1947 1948 1949 1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1956 1957 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 ip cee ee June 1967 455 MEMBERSHIP (Total) In Stakes In Missions Non-L. D. S. Members LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Served as Leaders in Society Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Ward and Branch Executive Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers ORGANIZATIONS (Total) Stakes, Missions, and Districts Stakes Missions Mission Districts Wards and Branches In Stakes In Missions 1966 1965 Increase or Decrease Annual Report 456 Increase 1966 1965 or Decrease L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers (Total) 607,205 In Stakes 489,220 In Missions 117,985 NON-L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers (Total) In Stakes In Missions MEETINGS Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) 271,374 Regular Meetings for Members 197,662 Visiting Teacher Meetings 39,363 Special Meetings 20,626 Other Functions 13,723 Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) 8.470 Stake and District Board Meetings 4,619 Stake and Mission Leadership Meetings 3,451 Relief Society General Conference Relief Society Sessions at Stake Quarterly Conferences Total Meetings Held <9 ' diesaaneens June 1967 NN. En | AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members (Total) In Stakes In Missions Spiritual Living Homemaking Social Relations Cultural Refinement Visiting Teacher Meetings Relief Society Leadership Meetings SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Chorus (Total) In Stakes In Missions Approximate Number of Singers (Total) In Stakes In Missions MAGAZINE English Edition Spanish Edition Total VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers Visiting Teacher Districts Family Visits (Total) Home Not Home Per Cent At Home Communications in Lieu of Visits 115,471 9/7, 19%: 16,279 119,418 156,774 109.40) 108 2A6 66. 11R 79,918 252,902 5,590 258,492 130,301 69,317 4,704,379 3,056,027 1,648,352 44 96% 140,246 An Average of 9 Visits Was Made in the Stakes to Each Family in 1966 An Average of 8 Visits Was Made Church-Wide to Each Family in 1966 Annual Report 457 458 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Other Contacts Hours Contributed by All Females On Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted on Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by All Females Receiving Church Welfare Assistance. Sisters Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFI¢ To Wards and Branches (Total) By Stake Officers By Mission and District Officers COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Days Care of the Sick Visits to Sick and Homebound Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services Bodies Dressed for Burial Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted Wards and Branches Maintaining List of Nurses (Total) In Stakes In Missions 1966 99,512 86,312 765,086 56,212 252,570 4,693 31,120 395,181 753,371 B24 11,185 Increase or Decrease June 1967 459 SEWING Articles Completed (Total) 1,361,894 Sewed Articles (Total) 827,866 Quilts 29,239 Children's Clothing 83,075 Women's Clothing 92,228 Men's Clothing 5,399 Household Furnishings 326,469 Other (Miscellaneous) 291,456 Non-Sewed Articles 534,028 Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) 5,533 In Stakes 4.713 In Missions 820 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS \ Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 1966,-$2,901,148.20 Receipts, sooo COR S055 ee 5,005,182.27 Total en ae>.. 7,906,330.47 Disbursements 500 OE, ooo Crane 4,766,843.05 Cash Balance on Hand December 31, 1966 3,139,487.42 Assets—December 31, 1966 Net Cash on Hand December 31 $3,139,487.42 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office Dente.. Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) 36,914.44 Real Estate and Buildings re 84,014.06 Total Assets 0.000-. Ee$3,683,325.59 422,909.67 Annual Report The Golden Chain (Continued from page 431) down, leaving only Nora and Jed Oliver. She knew the townspeople were enjoying the situation immensely. Jed made a good impression. She needn't have worried about him. And while she toyed with the idea of purposely missing a word, her idea came too late. Jed missed one first. Tue bishop had long since given up the spelling book in favor of the dictionary. He was working through the "'o's" when Nora was startled to hear Jed say "obfuskate." He was reading from his paper, too. He, as several of the others, was aided by seeing the word, and it was ruled that this was fair, everyone being given the same right, to see the word in writing before spelling it orally, if he chose so to do. Immediately, as if. Correcting one of her pupils, Nora found herself saying, "obfuscate." She looked at Jed. No, she had not embarrassed him. His face was a big grin as she began receiving the first of many congratulations. And it was not until the next morning that what had seemed to her to have been almost a deliberate error proved to be just that. She found Jed's paper, crumpled and dropped on the floor where he had been. There was no mistaking the handwriting. She had seen too much of it for that. But there was the word, as plain as could be, obfuscate, yet he had spelled it orally with a '"'k." Nora's heart skipped a beat. Jed had deliberately misspelled the word. But why? Why had he been concerned for her, as she 460 had been for him, that there be no embarrassment? Perhaps he had felt that her embarrassment would be doubled before both parents and her students? Nora could not know. But she taught that day with a light step and in an especially happy frame of mind. Nora had found that within the small community of Banner there was a surprising number of people who could enrich the experiences of her students by sharing their own. As missionaries for their Church, the men of the town had traveled the world over. Nora had heard the children speaking of the wood carving done by Freedom Lang, and the idea had been growing in her mind to invite the old fellow to school to show his work and to talk about it. She had a double purpose, actually, desiring to do something that might help to draw this man, who must be very lonely, into the group life of the little village. She knew herself to be somewhat of an outsider, but not as he was, and she could not say '"'those among whom he lived," for he did not live among them. He came into town only when he absolutely had to have supplies. She mentioned her plan to Ben. "T'll have to see him right away or the school year will be ending," she said. "I wonder if you would drive me out there after school one night this week." "Old Free? Miss Blake! You're not really going to invite him to come to school!" "And why not? I've heard from several people about the beautiful things he carves. I think it would be very worthwhile to have him show them to the class and perhaps tell a bit about how he does it. Who knows? We may have someone in class who might be interested in learning to carve." "T know you, Miss Blake. You have someone in mind already. It's Joe, isn't it? Joe Pine?" Nora laughed. "You're too sharp, Ben. Yes, it is Joe. He has quite a talent for modeling with that clay we brought in from the ditch bank. I'd like to see what he could do with wood." Still Ben appeared reluctant to become a party to the plan. "T don't know," he said. "I'd have to tell Jed where I was going, and J know he won't like it. Me going out there, or you The Golden Chain either." Nora caught her breath. There were times when she had been tempted to question Ben. She would have liked to ask, Does he ever talk about me, Ben? Does he care at all? But always she rejected the impulse as not auite honorable. She kept her voice low as she said, '"'Ask him, Ben. Tell him we plan to go tomorrow after school." But the following day Ben was absent. Not to be dissuaded, Nora determined to walk. It was probably not more than three miles out to the Lang cabin. Then, as the last student left, Nora looked up to see Jed standing in the doorway. (To be continued) a WREN TIME Ethel Jacobson 'a In filaments of fine-spun gold The wrens' cadenzas, whorled and scrolled, Make filigrees of melody That glint from every aspen tree. Beaks, like slim curved needles, wrought This bright metallic lacework caught On dancing leaves that tip slim boughs Where the small winds of summer drowse. ~ LIFE'S JOURNEY The path, narrow and steep, winds its way to the top of the lofty, majestic mountain. Sharp rocks, thorns, and tangled underbrush reach out, threaten to trip, to turn me aside. Sometimes | feel myself slipping backwards. I'm tired. | stop to get a firm foothold, to renew my strength, then | continue to climb. Wouldn't it be easier to follow the wide paved road that travels around the base of the mountain? No. | must reach the top. That is my goal. Judith Leigh-Kendall 461 June 1967 VARIATIONS OF THE TORTILLA (Continued from page 443) sonal tastes. Some have been concocted from exchanging food ideas at Relief Society luncheons here and there. Whether you are an old Mexico food fan or have never tasted a tortilla, you ought to try these recipes. You are sure to like them. TOMATO ENCHILADA CASSEROLE 2 doz. Tortillas (approx.) Ingredients for sauce 1 Ib. Ground meat 10 or fewer small green onions (10 if you like onion flavor) 1 bell pepper chopped fine 1 tsp. Chili powder (optional) 1 can yellow corn, drained 1 cup grated cheese 1 can tomato sauce (small) 3 cans cold water 1 can consomme and/or 1 small can tomato soup; enough flour and shortening to thicken sauce Make sauce by browning flour in butter or other shortening. Remove from fire and stir in liquids which have been mixed together. Return to fire and continue stirring until it thickens. Next, saute meat with onions and bell pepper. Salt and pepper to taste. Add the chili powder and can of corn. Fry tortillas, one at a time, in very hot cooking oil about an inch deep. Use small frying pan. Use kitchen tongs to place tortillas in hot oil. Cook for about three seconds, then turn and cook other side. Hold tortilla up with tongs and drain off oil. Dip tortilla in tomato sauce and place in bottom of large casserole dish. Continue until you have a thick layer of sauce-covered tortillas. Add a layer of the meat and corn combination. Sprinkle with cheese, then make another layer of each. Pour remaining sauce over all. Place in 325° oven for 30 minutes or until bubbly hot. Just before removing, sprinkle a little cheese on top. Sometimes | add peeled, toasted chili strips to this casserole—the kind you get at any grocery that carries Mexican canned foods. | often substitute chopped chicken or pork for ground round. The nice thing about this casserole is that it tastes just as good the next day. Note for all the casseroles: A good rule to remember is to stop using the tortillas when there is about a cup of sauce left in pan. If you have a cup of sauce to pour over all, it will assure you a nice, moist dish. GREEN TOMATO ENCHILADA 20 or more little green tomatoes oil or butter, as desired (the kind with jackets on) 2 doz. Tortillas (approx.) 1 small green hot chili (optional) 1 cup grated cheese (approx.) 3 medium-sized onions about 2 cups leftover roast or boiled 1 avocado (optional) meat (torn into fine strips) 14, pint sour cream parsley Boil tomatoes (jackets removed), onions, and chili in small amount of water. When tender, put in osterizer (or blender), until thick. Salt to taste. Fry tortillas as explained above. Dip in sauce; put a little of meat in center. Roll and place side by side in casserole. Make two layers. Pour remaining sauce or 1 cup of sauce over top, then the sour cream. Sprinkle with cheese and leftover meat. Place in moderate oven for about 30 minutes. Remove and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and place slices of avocado on top. Serve immediately. This casserole has a different taste and is delicious. 462 Variations of the Tortilla CHEESE, CHICKEN, AND TORTILLA CASSEROLE 1 barbecued, roasted, or fried chicken (! Usually get mine at my _ favorite rotisserie.) 5 to 10 little green onions—use part of the stems, too. 1 large can creamed chicken soup, diluted with about 34 can (1414 oz) of milk 1 cup grated cheese (I use a mild cheese.) 14, cup chopped celery— if you like celery. About two dozen tortillas cut in strips and lightly browned in shortening, butter or substitute. Cut tortillas in medium-sized strips. (| cut about five at a time, using my sharpest butcher knife and cutting board.) Brown lightly in shortening. Saute chopped onion and celery in a little shortening. Blend chicken soup and milk well. De-bone chicken and cut in bite-sized pieces. Place browned tortilla strips in casserole, then the sauted onion and celery, then the pieces of chicken and grated cheese. Pour chicken soup over all. Place in moderate oven for 30 minutes or more. When the budget is low, omit the chicken, and add a little more cheese and onion. If the mixture seems a little dry before you put it in the oven, add a little more canned milk. TACOS tortillas—usually 3 per person meat—left over roast, chicken, pork lettuce—shredded or cut very fine sausage, or ground beef tomatoes—chopped fine cottage cheese—small curd frozen cooked peas or canned peas dairy sour cream or sweet cream grated cheese 1 small can taco sauce green onion—finely chopped Fry tortillas as described above, only this time double in half and fry a little longer. Place tortillas on paper towel to drain and keep warm. In each tortilla put cooked meat that has been torn into little strips or the cooked ground meat. Add about a tablespoon of cottage cheese or cream; next, a spoonful of peas, then a little chopped onion, tomato, and lettuce, and, last, a sprinkle of cheese and a spoonful of taco sauce. Now comes the fun part——hold. Tightly with both hands and eat immediately. Good luck or, as we say in Spanish, ''buena suerte.'' TOSTADAS There is very little difference in the above type of taco and the tostada, but to some the difference is important. The tortilla used for tostadas should be a day old and should be fried until crisp. The day you cook beans, remember to set aside a quart full (not much liquid—nearly all beans) to make tostadas. When the beans are a day or so old, place them in a frying pan with a cube of butter or butter substitute. While they are cooking, mash them until they become a paste. This is called refried beans and is delicious alone, especially if you add a little cheese and let it melt in the beans. Now take about a tablespoonful of the refried beans, spread over top of the crisply fried tortilla, then place any kind of cooked meat in small pieces on top of the beans, then the finely chopped lettuce— very fine, remember—then next you should place a bit of soft, crumbly, fresh cheese on top (a white cheese). This may be hard to find in some areas. If so, substitute cottage cheese; small curd. Salt to taste. Spread a little cream on top, if you like it juicy, and it is ready to eat. Tostadas and tacos are for strictly informal affairs—but what fun, and oh, so good! And as we say in Latin America '"'buen provecho,"' or ''happy eating." 463 LESSON DEPARTMENT HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Dr. Eleanor Jorgensen Discussion lV—Summer Months Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1967 Southern Hemisphere: February 1968 Objective: To learn fundamental procedures in setting in a basic sleeve. INTRODUCTION The set of the sleeve is one of the most important earmarks of a professional looking garment. Since the sleeve is sometimes 11%" to 2" fuller than the armhole into which it is to be sewed, it is necessary to ease and mold this fullness to fit the upper arm and shoulder so that it will be free from tucks and gathers, thus giving the curve of the armhole a smooth appearance. Different methods for sewing in a sleeve may be used, but they all must give that quality look when completed. Standards for a wellfitted, plain set-in sleeve show that (a) the crosswise grain at the base of the sleeve cap is parallel to the floor, (b) the lengthwise grain is perpendicular to the floor and falls in a vertical line from the high point on the shoulder to the elbow, (c) the curve of the armhole is stitched so that it follows the normal curve of the body, (d) the sleeve is balanced so that it hangs evenly, (e) there 464 are no diagonal folds or wrinkles on the top of the sleeve or underneath at the armpit, (f) the sleeve is large enough to prevent binding at the upper arm, yet free from a puckered or puffy look in the armhole seam, (g) it must not look as though the dress had been eased onto the sleeve. PREPARATION The entire sleeve cap is ease stitched by placing one row of stitching exactly on the hemline, sewing while the sleeve is flat and right side up. This places the bobbin thread on the wrong side of the fabric. The stitch is lengthened slightly. The sleeve seam may then be permanently stitched and pressed, and, if desired, may be hemmed before it is set into the armhole.: This, of course, would not be done until the sleeve length and general fit had been checked. The sleeve cap requires ease to mold and fit the upper arm and shoulder. Therefore, clip the bobbin thread at the front and back notches and draw up the ease, distributing it to give an even appearance. There is very little ease, if any, across the top, but more is found where the sleeve is bias. Itis at this point where care must be taken to prevent too much fullness. SETTING IN THE SLEEVE Turn the garment wrong side out, placing the sleeve into the armhole so that the right side of the sleeve matches the right side of the garment. Pin the two garment sections together at the underarm seam, top of the shoulder, front notch, and back notch, remembering to hold the sleeve side toward you and to place the pins at right angles to the seamline. The sleeve must fit the armhole along the seamline, so that any adjustments can be made between the top of the sleeve and the notches. Best results will folJow if the full side of the sleeve is worked over the fingertips. It may be necessary to place one or two additional pins to help hold the edges, but try to avoid using more than six or eight altogether. It may be advisable at this stage to baste (either by hand or machine) the sleeve into the armhole and check the way it hangs before permanently stitching it. (Figure 1) STITCHING The garment is placed under the machine so that the sleeve side is up. To reinforce the lower portion of the armhole, two rows of machine stitching are used. Lesson Department Begin the stitching at the back notch and continue sewing around the armhole until the starting point is reached, then continue on ~ to the opposite notch. This gives a double line of stitching (one on top of the other) on the lower part of the armhole only. Since the ease stitch on the sleeve was made exactly on the seamline during the preparation, the permanent stitch may be sewed one thread inside the ease line. If there is difficulty in holding the ease in place while permanently stitching the armhole, it may be necessary to hold the fabric "off grain." This is done by placing the forefingers opposite each other in front of the needle at each side of the pressure foot and pulling the top layer of fabric outward with the fingertips as the machine sews. (Figure 2) FINISH Trim the armhole seam to 14" and finish according to the type of fabric. Pinking is suitable on many fabrics. The seam allowance on the under part of the armhole (from notch to notch) is trimmed down to %%''. The narrower seam gives more room, is comfortable, and prevents binding. The armhole seam should not be clipped. Cutting the seam allowance down to 4%" on top and 3%" underneath serves the same purpose as clipping without weakening the seam. (Figure 3) For sheer fabrics, a false French seam is used and is made 4" wide all the way around the armhole. If the sleeve has been set in properly and the seam naturally turns toward the sleeve, it isn't necessary to press it. However, if 465 June 1967 (Figure 1) Setting-in the Sleeve - (Figure 3) Trimming and Finishing The Sleeve (Figure 2) Stitching the Sleeve \ (Figure 4) Attaching Bias Strip To Maintain Roll at Sleeve Cap (Optional) pressing is desired, with sleeve side up (wrong side), press the armhole seam, allowing the iron to extend into the sleeve about " to 4". This will help retain the natural roll the sleeve should have rather than a flattened look. Some fabrics need more attention than others in achieving a soft, smooth round look over the cap. To help maintain the roll at the cap of the sleeve, cut a bias strip of self-fabric approximately 466 14%" wide and 6" long. Match the edge of the bias to the sleeve seam edge, then attach it by hand over the cap of the sleeve, stitching as close as possible to the sleeve line of stitching. The addition of the bias helps to fill in spaces where there is too much ease. (Figure 4) All seam edges turn toward the sleeve when finished. Note: If self-fabric is too bulky, use another fabric, such as outing flannel. Ee Previews WOOOOOOQO2L SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Elder Roy W. Doxey =" Last year the structure of the lessons for this department attempted to involve the members of the Relief Society to a greater degree by pointing out pertinent discussions in the lesson material. In addition to this device being used this year, the format of the lessons is changed to emphasize one major principle in a section of the Doctrine and Covenants rather than to discuss all or most of the contents of the revelation. We will continue to include, however, as much material concerning the background of the revelation as seems necessary and also to emphasize as much of each revelation as is pertinent to the one principle. With the change to a one-principle lesson, it seems necessary that each person read the entire section to enjoy further the spirit of this book of scripture. The abbreviations in earlier lessons will be used. The one abbreviation that might give new teachers and readers a question is DHC. This abbreviation means Documentary History of the Church, which is also known as the seven-volume History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints by Joseph Smith, Jr. During this Relief Society year the spiritual living lessons cover a four-year period from April 1834 to April 1838, using eight of the twelve revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith during this period. One section, written in 1835, which is an opinion on government, is to be studied in another year. Historically, then, this four-year period, as far as these lessons are concerned, includes the Zion's Camp expedition of 1834; in February 1835 the Quorum of the Twelve and the First Quorum of the Seventy were organized; the Kirtland Temple was completed and dedicated in 1836; the extension of missionary work across the ocean to Europe occurred in 1837; and in 1838, with the Church more perfectly organized, it received its official name by revelation. Theologically, one lesson con- 467 June 1967 siders the concept of building Zion upon the earth, the major principle revealed in the dispensation, as the objective of all Latterday Saints. This lesson points out what is necessary for each member of the Church to do that this goal may be realized. Another lesson revolves around the manner in which the saint is blessed by sustaining those who preside over him. The Kirtland Temple dedicatory prayer, though it was a special one, gives many prayer principles which the members of the Church may find profitable for use in their own prayers. Another lesson concerns the wonderful events that occurred in the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836. These events have tremendous bearing upon the eternal salvation of men. Knowledgeable Church members have come to love the principle of humility as it is revealed in the scriptures, for he who lives this principle has the windows of heaven opened to him in many ways. The 1967-68 series of spiritual living lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 81—The Lord Will Provide for His Saints (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 104) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns that the Lord will provide for his saints, but it must be in his own way. Lesson 82—Preparing for the Redemption of Zion (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 105) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns from the experiences of the saints in former days under persecutions brought on by transgressions, that she must be obedient to present-day commandments if she would have a part in the redemption of Zion. Lesson 83—The General Authorities (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 107) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman learns of the Lord's organization of the General Authorities of his Church and recognizes the inspiration that guides them. Lesson 84—Sustain the Brethren (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 108) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is blessed as she observes her vows and sustains the Brethren in authority. Lesson 85—The Kirtland Temple (Dedicatory Prayer) (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 109) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman analyzes the dedicatory prayer given by revelation to enlarge her understanding of proper entreaties to the Lord to assist her in her own praying. 468 Lesson Previews Lesson 86—The Restoration of the Keys of the Priesthood (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 110) _ Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman rejoices in the restoration of the keys of the Priesthood and resolves to accomplish the duties imposed upon her by the restoration of the keys. Lesson 87—"'Be Thou Humble' (D&C 112:10) (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 112) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman views her own life in light of the commandment to be humble with the great promised blessings resulting therefrom. Lesson 88—The Church and Its Purposes (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 115) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman examines herself to see if the purposes of the gospel are fulfilled in her life that her light may be a standard to her family and associates. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths To Live By Preview of Messages for 1967-68 Alice Colton Smith = The Church in the spring of 1833 reflected the season's hope. Intellectual and spiritual ferment was in the air. True, the mob spirit was abroad in Missouri, but, in Kirtland, the brethren were engaged in raising money for a schoolhouse in which they could study together. As a group they would learn to magnify their callings. They were beginning to learn more about the Lord whom they worshipped. He was a God of love, permissively allowing all men to act in free agency, but for those who chose to be in his kingdom, as joint heirs with him in eternity, there were rules, laws, and expectations. As in any great kingdom, one's free agency must be exercised within the bounds of responsibility. The Lord (the King) whom the saints worshipped and wished to follow, called them to the realm of excellence. One's faith and one's love were not to be blind. Love was to be fortified by faith, and also by learning. Out of the combination of love, faith, devoted service, and learning would come wisdom. On May 4, a conference of High Priests initiated plans for raising funds to erect a schoolhouse in which structure the elders might be instructed. They were carrying out instructions previously given by the Lord. Two days later, the Lord by revelation taught the Church that "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and _ truth. Light and truth forsake that evil one" (D&C 93:36-37), and that "He that keepeth his command- 469 June 1967 ments receiveth truth and light" (D&C 93:28). Through the gospel plan, we all are to be trained in the intelligent use of free agency. Intelligent understanding of each men. We should be prepared to risk all in their behalf, at the Lord's request. We are to take time to love. There is to be no sitting on the sidelines. The Lord other is also necessary. We are to calls us to action, tempered by learn how to be responsible for study, learning, wisdom, faith, inone another. Our greatest concern telligence, and the promptings of should be for those whom God has__ the Holy Ghost. Entrusted to our care: our famiThe visiting teacher messages lies, our friends, our neighbors, for October 1967 through May the saints of God—in time, all 1968, are as follows: Message 1—Light and Truth Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: '"'The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth'' (D&C 93:36). By becoming responsive to the promptings of the Holy Ghost, we have special access to light and truth. Message 2—Love—a Way to Salvation Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 Objective: God revealed through his Son Jesus Christ that the basic principle of his kingdom is love. By implementing this principle, we help ourselves and others to obtain salvation. Message 3—Loving Oneself and Others Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: Understanding and loving oneself is an integral part of understanding and loving others. Message 4—A Loving Person Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To become a loving person requires desire, study, and practice. Message 5—Take Time to Show Love Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: We must organize our lives so as to have time to show love to others. Message 6—Love, Intelligence, and Compassionate Service Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: Love and intelligence result in compassionate service to others. Message 7—Courage and Love Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: To be a loving friend or a good neighbor may require courage. Message 8—Love Is Active Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 Objective: To show that love is active, not passive. 470 SS ee Ne HOMEMAKING MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Preview of Discussions—1967-68 Celestia J. Taylor = Our leaders from the Prophet Joseph Smith down to President David O. McKay, have been devoted exponents of the influence of the home upon the families who dwell therein—both parents and children. We are all familiar with the emphasis which our beloved President McKay has given and is giving to the importance of the home in the rearing of our children. President Brigham Young said in one of his discourses, '""The only heaven for you is that which you make for yourselves," and again, "Make your homes lovely, and adorn your hearts with the grace of God." The homemaking discussions for 1967-68 continue to be based on the general topic, Development Through Homemaking Education, and are designed to encourage Latter-day Saint mothers to make of their homes places of beauty, where happiness and mutual contentment are natural characteristics. To achieve this end, the discussions make a practical approach to the various contributing factors. Discussion 1—Family Protection—Wills—Estate-Planning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: To show that estate-planning and the making of a will are important for the well-being of the survivors. Discussion 2—Family Protection—Insurance Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 November 1967 Objective: To show the need for insurance in family protection. Discussion 3—Christmas Food, Fun, and Finance Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: To show how Christmas food, fun, and finance can be combined to make a happy family holiday. Discussion 4—The Kitchen—the Heart of the Home Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To show that the kitchen can be the heart of the home, where human needs are satisfied. Discussion 5—The Living Room—yYour Design for Living Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: To awaken us to the possibilities of using what we have to the greatest advantage. Discussion 6—The Dining Area—the Threshold of Hospitality, Family Communication, and Courtesy Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: To encourage mothers to create a happy atmosphere for family observance of good manners and courtesy. 471 June 1967 Discussion 7—-The Bedrooms—wWake Up Smiling Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: To show that comfortable, attractive, quiet bedrooms can contribute to the physical well-being of the family. Discussion 8—Making Every Room a Library—An Invitation to Learning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 Objective: To show that the home which invites the reading of good books will add enrichment to the lives of the family members. Discussions for Summer Months: June—Home Nursing Training Northern Hemisphere: June 1968 Southern Hemisphere: November 1968 July—Simple Nursing Techniques Northern Hemisphere: July 1968 Southern Hemisphere: December 1968 August—Family Attitude Toward All I! L Person—Rehabilitation Northern Hemisphere: August 1968 Southern Hemisphere: January 1969 September—Care of the Aging Northern Hemisphere: September 1968 Southern Hemisphere: February 1969. SOCIAL RELATIONS A Light Unto the World Preview of Lessons for 1967-68 Alberta H. Christensen =" The general guideline for the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons for 1967-68 is that of Light and Truth. The Priesthood manual will include some lessons which deal with Priesthood oriented responsibilities and Priesthood administered ordinances. Others will be on subjects in which ll Church membership participate. The companion Relief Society lessons will correlate with those Priesthood lessons which have a corresponding application in a woman's personal life and in the individual-to-individual relationships of which she is a part. As heretofore, the correlation may be close in some cases; in other lessons the general subject used in 472 the Priesthood lessons will be followed, but with different emphasis. Again, as in previous lessons, class involvement is important. To listen is not necessarily to learn. Therefore, to promote active discussion within the class period and to motivate individual action beyond the hour in one's personal life, the involvement procedure will continue to be used. Scriptural quotations, a pertinent question, a _ provocative statement, life-situation cases, a sociodrama, or fragments of conversation as aids to involvement, will continue to appear within the | lessons. Class leaders who make full use of these participation helps should have very little temptation or opportunity to retain the lecture method. Instead of presenting a lesson, there will be a developLesson Previews mentally and vocally expressing themselves. Only when this is done may the lesson reach its full potential. A forward look at the lessons ment of ideas embraced in the lesson. All class members should participate by actually reacting for the coming year will be of interest to the social relations class leaders. Lesson 1—''Seek Learning, Even By Study" (D&C 88:118) (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: Latter-day Saints have been commanded by the Lord to seek learning by study and also by faith. The Latter-day Saint woman who complies with this commandment and who uses the acquired knowledge for good, will enrich her mortal life and be eternally blessed. Lesson 2—"And Also By Faith'' (D&C 88:118) (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman may know the blessing of truth revealed or reaffirmed, through the exercise of faith. Lesson 3—As a City on a Hill (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 Objective: ''Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid' (Matt. 5:14). The Latter-day Saint woman may know the joy of being "'a light unto the world." Lesson 4—What Will They Remember? (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes her responsibility to represent the standards of the Church in all aspects of personal deportment. Lesson 5—Do | Live What | Say? (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that integrity is essential to all rewarding human relationships. Lesson 6—Of Thoughts and of Words (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: August 1968 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman realizes that ''For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he"' (Prov. 23:7). 473 July 1967 Lesson 7—Home and the School (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: To point out that an understanding of the purposes of education on all levels is of value to both mother and student. Lesson 8—''That's What They Say, Mamma'"' (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: October 1968 Objective: To emphasize the responsibility of the mother in fortifying the home against some propagandizing of the commercial world. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Preview of Lessons—1967-68 Dr. Bruce B. Clark " A program in literature has been functioning for three years with the addition, a year ago, of music and art as a cultural refinement course. For the first two years (1964-65 and 1965-66) Volume 1 of Out of the Best Books was used, focusing upon developing individual values. During the year 1966-67, Volume 2 has been used, focusing upon home and family problems and ideals as_ seen through literature and the related arts. The program for 1967-68 will be a continuation of the present program—that is, the central focus for another year will be on intelligent family living as seen through literature and the related arts. Materials are published in Volume 3 of Out of the Best Books. As during the past three years, so again for 1967-68, the emphasis will be upon the works of literature and art and music themselves, rather than upon 474 authors' lives or historical background. Such an emphasis is intended to encourage stimulating discussion and an exchange of ideas with all the insight into life and life's values that selections from the world's great literature, music, and art can yield. Also, continuing concern will be given to harmonizing literature and art with the gospel, permitting a rich correlation between the ideals of our cultural heritage and the ideals of our religion. An obligation, as members of the Church, is to study the scriptures and the words of our modern prophets for the fulness of the gospel that they contain. But, beyond these, we are encouraged to study the best writings of the world for the supplemental knowledge and insight that these can give. At its best, literature is concerned with building faith and championing spiritual values— and with exposing and opposing selfishness, materialism, shallowness, and all things harmful to human personality or destructive in human relationships. There will be a sufficient number of selections covered each month so that stake and ward class leaders can select those most useful for their group. And, again, the sisters should be encouraged to bring to their reading and discussion of the selections all of their own background in life's experiences. For literature is valuable not only because of the author's talent and insight, but, also, because it stirs readers to think, evaluate, and aspire. As we approach another year of study it is good to remind ourselves that reading a work of literature is a beginning and not an end. It opens doors rather than closes them. When we finish reading a selection, we should be left thinking, not with all questions Lesson Previews answered, but with sufficient insight so that we are just a little better prepared to meet life's challenges and to achieve life's eternal goals. Finally, as we participate in the cultural refinement course, we should remember that the course will be fully successful only if we apply the lessons in our own lives, and carry them into our homes, sharing the wonder and wisdom and beauty of music, good literature, and art, as well as their delights, with our families. One of the most valuable things we parents can give our children is a love of reading, music, and art, plus some skill in analyzing these arts; and one of the best ways to do these things is to discuss and enjoy literature, music, and art as a family group in the home. Lesson titles and objectives for the year 1967-68 are as follows: Lesson 1—by Robert K. Thomas: ''A Glad Heart"' "With a glad heart and a cheerful countenance.''—Doctrine and Covenants 59:15 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: By developing a glad heart, a woman may more effectively set a tone of harmony within her home. Musical selections with comments for lesson 1 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. Lesson 2—by Bruce B. Clark: ''Honesty, a Measure of Life'' "The measure of life is not length, but honesty."—John Lyly Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1967 Southern Hemisphere: April 1968 Objective: To emphasize that as she is honest with herself, a woman helps others to value the sincere and trustworthy. She should recognize dishonesty in all its forms and thus be more fully honest in all that she does, says, and is. A consideration of the painting ''The Holy Family'' by Andrea del Sarto, as printed on pages 432-433, of this, the June issue of the Relief Society Magazine, will be a part of this lesson. Lesson 3—by Robert K. Thomas: ''Patience and Forbearance"' ''In your patience possess ye your souls.''—New Testament, Luke 21:19 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1968 475 June 1967 Objective: To show that a woman who lets patience turn into resignation is substituting endurance for forbearance. Musical selections with comments for lesson 3 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. Lesson 4—by Bruce B. Clark: ''Obedience, the Mother of Success'"' "Obedience is the mother of success, the wife of safety.''—-Aeschylus Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To emphasize that a woman should anchor her life in obedience to high principles through loyalty and trust. A consideration of a painting which will appear in the September 1967 Relief Society Magazine will be a part of this lesson. Lesson 5—by Bruce B. Clark: ''A Loving Heart'' "A loving heart is the beginning of all knowledge."—Thomas Carlyle Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1968 Southern Hemisphere: July 1968 Objective: To show that a woman's life is refined and enhanced by the gift of genuine love and affection. Musical selections with comments for lesson 5 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. Lesson 6—by Robert K. Thomas: ''The Substance of Faith' "Faith is the substance of things hoped for.'—New Testament, Hebrews 11:1 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1968 Southern Hemisphere. August 1968 Objective: When her life is lighted by eternal principles, a woman can live both in and above the world. A consideration of a painting which will appear in the September 1967 Relief Society Magazine will be a part of this lesson. Lesson 7—by Robert K. Thomas: ''Charity Out of a Pure Heart" "The end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart." —New Testament, | Timothy 1:5 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1968 Southern Hemisphere: September 1968 Objective: Charity, or the pure love of Christ, distinguishes those who give— and those who receive—graciously. This lesson will include a musical selection from the teaching kit, and a painting which will appear in the September issue of the Relief Society Magazine. The Text Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living, will be on sale in the late summer at $2.95 postpaid from the Deseret Book Company. Orders will be filled in the order they are received as it comes off the press. The teaching kit for the cultural refinement course, 1967-1968, will consist of copies of four paintings, and musical selections, both with commentaries. Copies of the four paintings will be published in the Relief Society Magazine —the first one for lesson 2 in this, the June Magazne, and the three remaining pictures for lessons 4, 6, and 7, in the September 1967 Relief Society Magazine, with commentaries by Floyd Breinholt, Assistant Professor of Art and Education, Brigham Young University. Large reproductions will be available in the teaching kit, with additional nformaton. The teaching kit, consisting of the paintings and musical selections, may be ordered from Communications Services Division, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, 84601, at a cost of $3.50, each kit, postpaid. Time will be allotted at each class period for the consideration of the art or music as well as the literature. 476 Winfield CHINA 45-PIECE Reg. Retail $234.50 $69 @ SERVICE FOR EIGHT *plus freight if delivered out-of-town. 20% DISCOUNT TO CHURCH GROUPS (ORDERING OVER FIVE DOZEN ASSORTED) (WRITE FOR PRICE LIST) NOW YOU CAN BUY WINFIELD TRUE PORCELAIN CHINA at Ysthe regular price... Factory-to-you ¢ PERMANENT PATTERN selected seconds GUARANTEE FACTORY OUTLET STORES 1 Merchants Park Shopping Center — In California — 3 acai = = — 625 South Broadway 714 State Street, Santa Barbara alt Lake City, Uta Denver, Colorado 348-A El Camino Real, San Carlos 11 patterns to choose from e OVEN PROOF e HAND PAINTED ¢ DISHWASHER SAFE Salt Lake City's Newest HAWAIIAN TOURS Handicraft Shop June July October TAH PAGEANT TOURS re including CRAFT & ool ) Canada's World's Fair Z ( July 17 =n NOVELTY EUROPE TOUR August We now have a much larger ALASKA TOUR shop to serve you better! A * Complete line of materials for ugust plastic grapes, feather flowers, CANADIAN ROCKIES paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, NORTHWEST TOURS paper flowers, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Margaret Lund Tours Free Instructions also available 110 East 2nd South UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. Salt Lake City, Utah RaNae Gledhill, Owner 328-8982 485-2444 3220 So. State Street Idaho Falls, 522-2581 Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 477 NOW THE OTHER WORLD! S GONE Dorothy J. Roberts Since | still shun the taking One green path alone, The lake it winds around, The flat, familiar stone; Since | still shrink from forest With its velvet fawn, The lupine and the lily— Now the other world is gone, Hold me softly, summer, On your lap of leaves, In your arms of blossoms With the lichen sleeves; Hold gently; After one last lullabye, A little dream before The rudely opened eye; Then lead me firmly Till | learn to walk alone, For looking back will only Turn the heart to stone. DIRECTIONS Dixie Randall Oveson A little child has asked the way, And do you point and tell? Or do you show him day by day, And bid him follow well? A little heart is broken, lost— And do you watch and weep, Or do you firmly lift it up And save it from the deep? A little soul has strayed away, And do you stand and scold, Or do you gently lead him back Into his Father's fold? To us is given the power to guide— From God, a sacred trust, That each child's steps directed be, And lead the way we must! NORTHERN TEMPLE TOUR June 16-24 SOUTHERN CANYONLAND TOUR June 17-20 NORTHWEST TOURS CANADIAN ROCKIES June 25—July 8 Aug. 20—Sept. 2 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 15-29 TWO HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS Leaving July 22 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR Aug. 20—Aug. 27 LABOR DAY TOUR Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2—Sept. 4 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 HOT DRINK A delicious and nourishing way to start the day for the whole family. Adults and children like the delicious flavor of the wholesome grains. Simple to fix — just add boiling water and serve! Economical, too! Look for it at your favorite market. Dsrioued WORLD FOODS INC. Dealers Inquiries Welcome 2520 South 7th West ° Salt Lake City, Utah 478 Vikinglands Scandinavia PLEASE SEND INFORMATION CONCERNING YOUR SCANDINAVIAN NAME TOUR MURDOCK ADDRESS TRA VEL MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 -90 Zone 3 -60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 °.65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 -80 = DESERET-[REwsS PRESS — Thank You for your patronage and your friendship over the years. Yes, we have: ALL THE NEW HANDICRAFTS: Gold Leaf, Decoupage, Feather Flowers, Furry Animal Pictures, Tissue Paper and Velour Flowers PLUS ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Aluminum Trays, Basketry, Ribbons, Styrofoam, Faces for Dolls and Stuffed Toys, etc. Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "How To Make Feather Flowers" ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Dept. R. M. 479 103 102 98 97 93 92 480 Mrs. Mary Adelia ''Dell'' Young Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Rogers Platt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Isabell Christensen Overson Richfield, Utah Mrs. Ida McEldowney Norwalk, California Mrs. Mary Johannah Lundquist Glines Tridell, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Bateman Quinton Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Mary Vincent Provo, Utah Mrs. Minnie Gardner Sugar City, Idaho Mrs. Rebecca Allphin Orton Payson, Utah Mrs. Lois Ann Brady Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Henrietta Watkins Barben Delta, Utah Mrs. Serena Jacobsen Larsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Frances Mary Cask Kirk Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lily A. Parker Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Johanna Herstad Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Martin McIntosh Mobile, Alabama Mrs. Anabel Rowell Clark Chester Hill, Australia Mrs. Irene Smith Merrill Richards Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minnie Harris Lehi, Utah Mrs. Annie Rothe Lehi, Utah Mrs. Margaret McCurdy Roberts Vernal, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Keey Cowt Birmingham, England Mrs. Emma Ray Riggs McKay Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret Palmer Jones Malad, Idaho Mrs. Martha Spratley Chadwick American Fork, Utah Mrs. Letitia Wood Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Catherine Holden Wood Logan, Utah Mrs. Rhoana Elizabeth Hatch Sawyer Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. Margaret Petersen Peterson Springville, Utah Mrs. Eliza Ann Barnes Coalville, Utah Mrs. Minna Berndt Garz Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith Crampton Clarkson Tonasket, Washington Mrs. Pearl Alberg South St. Paul, Minnesota REASONING, REVELATION — and YOU! By James J. Unopulos Jr. $4.95 Here is the gospel plan in its plainness and also in its majesty. The book is based on a course of gospel achievement taught successfully in southern California for several years. Inspirational reading — and a thought provoking course of study that will make a rewarding summer project. TEACH ME by Dorthea C. Murdock A book every mother needs for the summer months to help her keep the children amused and constructively busy. Originally created for use in Relief Society nursery classes, this enchanting collection of stories, games, make-it projects, etc., has found a wider use in homes. Every page is full of fun ideas children will really appreciate. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send me: (] TEACH ME LJ REASONING, REVELATION and YOU! COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Total amount of purchase $._.._ 00.. 2 eee, which includes 7717 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA 314% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, and 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. I enclose check / money order [] OR, please charge my established account (J. NAME.____._.-.-22 2-2-2 on een nnn nee ene eee ne ee eee ee ee ee ee eee nee eee eee nee ences ADDRESS 2 222222222222 nee nn nn en ee ne ee eee ee eee cee ne eee OO STATE -.----------------- ZIP__ -------- [] PLEASE SEND ME CHARGE ACCOUNT INFORMATION June 67 RS. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah BENEFICIAL LIFE — rerance ar Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah 
