UTAH STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Utah Stake con-
vened at American Fork, April 30, 1897,
President Mary John presiding. Sister E.
B. Wells and L. John Nuttall were on the
stand, visitors with the presiding officers.
Meeting opened by singing “Joy to the
world;” prayer by Brother Nuttall; sing-
ing “Arise, arise with joy survey;” min-
utes of last conference read and approved.
	President Mary John was pleased to
meet with the sisters and to see so full an
attendance. “We have many things to
lay before you, and have special visitors.”
Felt we should have a time of rejoicing to-
gether and desired the Spirit of the Lord to
assist us.
	Sister Elizabeth Giles, First ward Provo,
said their ward was united, they relieved
the wants of the needy. Sister Marsh,
President Alpine, said “We are few in
number but the sisters respond to the calls
cheerfully.”
	Sister Wadley, President Pleasant Grove
Third ward, said “We meet semi-monthly
and in various parts of the ward, whereby
we get a better attendance. We gather
storage wheat, and make and sell quilts to
have cash in the treasury.”
	Sister Houtz, Fourth ward Springville,
said “We are doing comparatively well
but not so well as we might. We made a
carpet for our ward house and laid it; we
are getting up a Fair to help build and ex-
pect the ward to help us build; afterwards
we shall gather wheat. We should work
in the silk indnstry and help make it a suc-
cess." 
	Sister M. A. Till, President Utah Silk
Association, encouraged the sisters to take
a greater interest in producing silk. Told
of her visit to the Republican Radies Silk
Club in Springville, of their satisfactory
success the first year’s trial, and how sys-
tematically they conducted all the details
of their club. Said Miss Pyper, of Salt
Lake City, who is employed by the State,
taught them to reel, they having raised
one hundred pounds of cocoons which en-
titled them to this, as also the bounty of
twenty-five cents per pound on good
cocoons. Their club has placed fifty dol
lars in the bank as a result of their efforts.
The speaker thought the whole of Utah
could surely do more than this. “Let us
unite energetically in raising cocoons, we
can get the eggs free from the Utah Wo-
man’s Silk Commission, Salt Lake City,
made possible by an appropriation of three
thousand dollars by the Legislature; it is a
very remunerative enterprise and women


[Column 1]
ad children can engage in it.”
	Sister E. B. Wells recommended the 
raising of cocoons, the eggs and pamphlet
of instructions are furnished by the Com-
mission for which apply to Mrs. Margaret
A. Caine, Secretary, Salt Lake City; she is
working through the State in the silk in-
terest. The sisters of Cache are doing a
good work in silk, and intend exhibiting at
the Fair; they have material for dress goods
all silk. Sister Woodbury of St. George
has an excellent article on silk published
in the EXPONENT. Sister Barber of Cache
is a very successful worker in silk; it is an
industry in which women and children can
engage profitably. Spoke at some length
and gave much encouragement upon this
industry.
	Sister Tanner, Second ward Payson,
reported they were assisting to build
a meeting house, and had furnished
a large quantity of carpet for the same.
“We are doing a good work in our Society
duties.”
	Sister Frances Cluff, Pleasant View,
Provo said “We hold our regular meeting
on fast day and have a semi-monthly meet-
ing, we send aids to the different associa-
tions which we find a help. I hope the
Lord will continue to bless us.”
	President Rebecca Standring of Lehi said
“We endeavor to do the best we can; we
meet on a Monday and have an attendance
of from seventy to eighty and sometimes 
one hundred. We enjoy a good spirit
some of the young sisters meet with us,
our wheat is in good condition.” Hoped
the sisters would raise cocoons, it is not
hard or obnoxious work, she took quite a
delight in it, had sllk she wished woven for
a dress. Bore her testimony to the truth of
our holy religion, etc.
	President Martha Simons, Payson First
ward, reported they had about one hun-
dred members in their Society. “We
have given considerable relief to those in
need, we have about six hundred bushels of
wheat on hand.” Spoke encouragingly of
the silk.
	Brother John Nuttall said many good
things. “Reports have been given, and Sis-
ter Wells informs me the silk interest comes
under the auspices of the Relief Society
which I commend. In regard to the sis-
ters of the Relief Society assisting to build
ward houses, it is expected they perform
their own affairs and business under the
guidance of the Priesthood, so whatever
you launch out in, such as storing grain,
relieving the poor or raising silk, comes
under your own province; I want the
world to know what we are doing in these
industries. Our missionaries go to preach
the Gospel and our women delegates go to
the nations to explain the great and good
work we are doing; ladies of the world are
astonished at the vast work we do. Silk
reeling and not spinning is desired; I wish
this industry widely known.” Told of the
impetus President Brigham Young gave it.
“The braiding of straw has gone into dis-
use since finer goods are imported, this
should not be the case; work in these
things and do so under the auspices of the
Relief Society that being the oldest organ-
ization for women among us. I intended
presenting matters of our legal organization
but will call a special meeting for this pur-
pose as there is not a full representation
from each Society in the County present. 
Some sisters think we have inaugurated a
new order of business but it is mainly to

