EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Friday April 30, we attended the
Relief Society Conference of Utah S ake
held at American Fork. Other visitors
were President Zina D. H. Young and her
daughter Sister Zina Y. Card and Elder L.
John Nuttall. President Mary John of
Provo was present and presided, opening
the Conference with a hearty welcome to
all present. The presidents of branches
gave encouraging reports and the speakers
most of them dwelt much upon home in-
dustries and productions, especially urging
the sisters to take hold of sericulture, and
make it a success, also to sustain our home
periodicals and advised young women to
enroll their names and become active mem-
bers of the Relief Society. There was a
very large attendance especially in the


afternoon, and Bishop Robinson was ex
ceedingly thoughtful and kind in providing
for the horses, as many of the sisters from
other settlements came with teams, rail-
roads not being convenient or money plenti-
ful. Sister Ellen D. Clark, President of
the Relief Society at American Fork, pre-
pared a sumptuous dinner for thirty or
more of the sisters and brethren, though
there were but a few brethren, it being
seed time, probably they were in the fields
at work. Sister Zina Young was in one of
her most eloquent moods, and as the Con
ference was numerously attended it was
very gratifying to have the President of
this great organization present, to hear her
and no doubt they appreciated the privilege.
We expect to have the minutes taken to
publish in the next issue of the paper.
	ONE of the sad things in connection with
the death of Elder Joseph Horne, the aged
patriarch who departed this life on Tuesday
April 27, at 3 p. m , was the sudden de
mise of the twin boys of Brother and Sister
Tingey, the following day. They were
Brother Horne’s grandchildren by his daugh-
ter Martha—and the last official act of his life
in the priesthood was blessing one of these
twin-babies on the Sabbath morning, when
they were eight days old, April 18. He
was taken sick the same night and from
that time gradually declined until the hour
of his departure from mortality. The twins
were named Weiler and Stafford Horne
Tingey and were nineteen days old; both
died on the same day only a few hours
apart. The funeral took place on Thurs-
day, April 29, and Brother Horne was
buried the following day, Friday, April
30. We feel confident that our sisters will
deeply sympathize with the family in this
double bereavement, and exercise their faith
in behalf of those who mourn that they
may be comforted; and we most earnestly
pray for the young mother who has been
called to part with her little sons that she
may be speedily restored to health, and
may the angels from on high draw near to
her and may she be able and willing to
acknowledge the hand of our Heavenly
Father in this sore affliction, knowing that
He doeth all things well, and knows what
is best for His children.
	'Weep not for those whom the vail of t e tomb
	In life’s happy morning has hid from our eyes,
Ere sin threw a blight o’er their spirits young
	bloom.
	Or earth had profaned what was born for the
		skies,”


