[Column 2]
	She sleeps, her troubles here are o'er, 
	She sleeps her earthly ills no more
 		Will break the slumberers rest.
	Her dust is laid beneath the sod 
	Her spirit has returned to God
		To mingle with the blest.”
					CLARISSA MOORE, 
					MILLIE STARK,  
					MARY H. BLENKEY
							Committee.
MARGARET A. H. WHITE.
	Sister Margaret Ann Hill White, daughter of
Patriarch Alexander Hi l and Agnes Hood Hill,
died at her home in Mill Creek ward, Salt Lake
Co., April 9, 1897, after a long and painful illness
which she bore with patience and fortitude She
was born May 1, 1834, at Delhoosea, Canada, and
was bapt zed when she was ei ht years old. She
with her parents, brothers and sisters, shared the
persecut ons of the Saints in Missouri and Nauvoo
and emigrated to Utah in the fall of 1849. She
was married to Elder George Mar in White in
Dec. 1863, (B other W ite died on the 5th of
August 1890.) She was the mother of eight child- 
ren, th ee sons and five daughters Her son
George M. White is now on a mi sion to the .
Northern States.
	Sister White was one of the first to have her
name enrolled as a member of the Relief Society
when it was organized in the Mill Creek ward
She has filled the office of a teache faithfully and
efficiently, seeking out the poor and the needy
and ministering to them with a loving and a
cheerful spirit.
	She was also a teacher in the Sunday school,
performing a noble part. She was ever work ng
for the welfare of Zion. She was a firm believer
in home industry, not alone in theory but in prac-
tice. When the silk organization was effected in
the ward, she was elected president and with her
associates accompli hed a good work in that
direction.
	We have visited her when she was busy with
the silk worms; it was a delight to see with what
care she tended to their necessities, also to listen
to the instructions she was always ready to give.
	She was a kind and loving mother; in her long
sickness she was attended to by her devoted
daughters, and mucn p aise is due them for their
u tiring effo ts in ministering to the loved one.
Her children, with the exception, of the son on a
mission, were all present in her last moments,
wh ch were peaceful and happy.
	She leave a large number of children, grand-
children, relatives and friends to mourn her loss,
but with hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Sister White died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint. In behalf of he Relief Society
we tender our deepest sympathy to the bereaved
family. Our friend and cola orer has been called
from our midst to another sphere. May we who
remain emulate her many virtues so that when
we are called home it may be said of us, also,
“Well done. thou hast been good and faithful,
enter into thy rest.”
	The funeral services were held in the Mill
Creek Ward house, Counselor Jas. R. Miller
conducted the services. A large number of
relatives and friends assembled to pay their last 
tribute of respect. Loving hands placed beauti-
ful flowers upon the casket The singing was
very appropriate and much appreciated. The
speakers were Brother Joseph E. Taylor of the
Stake Presi ency, Bi hop McRae, Bishop Hamil-
ton, of Mill Creek, a d other ward authorities,
ea h of whom bore a strong testimony of the
worth and works of our departed sister. A large
number of carriages followed the remains to the 
ward cemetery. The dedicatory prayer was
offered by Patri rch Archibald Hill, now in his
eighty-first year uncle to undeparted sister.
			ELIZABETH HILL, President,
			FRANCES H. HANSON, Secretary.


