Persians when they invaded Egypt. Only

[Column 3]
the remains of two colossal figures indicate
now the spot on which it stood.
	Of the Catacombs in Egypt, those at
Thebes are considered the most remarka-
ble. They are the oldest that are known
and can be traced back for 4000 years.
These Catacombs are now nearly all of
them dismantled of their contents. “An
artist who visited them before they had
been completely dispoiled says, he discovered
some little chambers, and on the walls of
one were represented all kinds of arms,
such as coats of mail, bows, arrows, jave-
lins, sabres, helmets, etc. In another room
there was found a collection of household
utensils, such as chairs, chests of draw-
ers, beds, etc., all of exquisite form and
suitable to have graced the apartments of
luxury and wealth. Besides these there
were vases and other small articles. In
still another room was represented agricul-
ture, showing a man sowing grain by the
side of a canal; a field of corn reaped with
a sickle; and fields of rice with men watch-
ing them. In a fourth room was a figure
clothed in white, represented as playing on
a richly ornamented harp with eleven
strings."
	The city of Thebes lost its previous im-
portance soon after its revolt against
Ptolemy Lathyrus, and its subsequent cap-
ture by the Greeks B. C. 82, after a siege
of three years.
	Diodorus gives a very particular discrip-
tion of many magnificent edifices raised by
King Osymandyas, one of which was
adorned with sculptures and paintings of
exquisite beauty; representing his expedi-
tion against the Bactrians—a people of Asia—
whom he had invaded with four hundred
thousand foot soldiers, and twenty thou-
sand cavalry. “In another part of this
edifice was exhibited an assembly of the
judges, whose president wore on his breast
a picture of truth with her eyes shut, and
himself was surrounded with books. Not far
from hence was seen a magnificent library, 
the oldest mentioned in history.”
	The Mausoleum of this king displayed
uncommon splendor. It was encompassed
with a circle of gold, a cubit in breadth and
365 cubits in circumference, each cubit of
which showed the rising and setting of the
sun, moon and the other planets; for so
early as this king’s reign the Egyptians di-
vided the year into twelve months, each
consisting of thirty days, to which they
added every year five days and six hours.” 
	Menes, or Misraim built the city of
Memphis; and Uchoreus, one of the suc-
cessors of Osymandyas, is also said to have
built this city, which was situated at the
