[Column 2]
	During her presidency of the Relief Soci-
ety two rock buildings were erected, one a
hall and store, the other a granary capable
of holding about eight thousand bushels of
grain; the latter building costing sixteen
hundred dollars.
	Impressions she received in early life
caused her to be religiously inclined.
When she was only five years old her 
mother was taken very sick. The little
Ruth went by herself and prayed that her
mother might get well. Her prayer was
answered, her mother recovering almost
immediately. At nine years of age she
joined the Methodist church, but would not
receive baptism unless she could be im-
mersed. After considerable discussion she
carried the point, and was baptized by im-
mersion, although it was contrary to the 
general practice in that church at that
time.
	She was the mother of fourteen children,
only three of whom survive her. She was
an active public worker, one who was ready 
and willing to respond to every call; her
whole soul was in the work from the time
she was baptized until the day of her death.
A devoted mother and faithful companion,
a friend to the needy, comforting the sick
and administering to their necessities.
She was faithful in this life and has gone to
receive the reward of the righteous.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Adopted by the officers and members of the
Beaver ward Relief Society.
	WHEREAS, It has p eased God to ca l from our
midst our beloved president and co-worker, Sis-
ter Ruth Tyler; therefore be i
	RESOLVED, That we deeply mourn her
loss, and most sincerely sympathize with
her family and friends and ask God to comfort
them.
	RESOLVED, That her death has caused a vacan-
cy we know not how to fill; but we realize that
our loss is her gain, [-]nd that God doeth all things
well, and that [-]e must be resigned to His will.
	RESOLVED, That a copy f this sketch and
resolutions be placed upon our record book, one
given to the bereaved family, and one sent to the 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

Gone from our midst, our sister, friend, departed,
	Deep in our hearts we feel the sad, sad pain;
We’ll ne’er forget her, true and noblehearted,
	But cherish we the hope to meet again.

Gone from our midst, but memory serves to
	lighten
	Grief that is fervent, for her ki dly life–
Emblem of goodness; seemed to ever brighten
	Scenes of affliction, woe, or angry strife.

Gone from our midst, this life will no more greet
	her,
	But in her home in heavenly glory land,
She is rejoicin ’mid the loved who meet her,
	Resting in peace among the angel band.
			JANE BICKLEY, President.
			LOUISSA W. JONES, Secretary.


