A FRIEND OF LONG AGO.
 
	A VERY pleasing incident unexpectedly
happened to the writer recently. A school
girl friend (of a remote period) on her way
from California to her home in Boston,
stopped off at Salt Lake to see the city as
tourists usually do, and while here recalled
to mind that she had known some of our
people in her early childhood, and particu-
larly remembered one, and was so impressed
with the idea that she inquired of a lady


sitting next her in the Tabernacle if she
knew such a person and so on. It proved
to be one who did know, and she came to
Waterloo after the services closed and
found the very one she was searching for.
Of course we didn’t know each other for
she was only ten years old when we last
met though the writer was fifteen, but the
past all came to view as soon as we con-
versed and it was indeed a most delightful
interview after so many years (more than
half a century) to talk over the people, the
places and the circumstances with which
we were both familiar in the days of child-
hood. Such meetings give one something
of an idea of the feelings we shall have
when we go behind the vail and meet old
friends and acquaintances.
	The time we passed together was limited
but we improved it to the uttermost. We
both called up the friends we had known
and made many inquiries, Mrs. Shaw
whom the writer had known as Frances B.
Hunter, remembered the Elders of our
Church preaching in the neighborhood
where we both lived, particularly the meet-
ing at mother’s house and the baptism in our
brook adjoining, and the Woodbury boys
speaking in tongues and interpreting.
Shortly after this time we went to Nauvoo
and her family moved to another part of
the State of Massachusetts so she lost all
trace of us and we of them. When she
came to this city she had no idea whether we
were living or dead, but was, as she ex-
plained it, so anxious to know what had
become of us that she inquired.
	The party consisted of Dr. Samuel J.
Shaw and wife, his brother and wife from
Boston. Dr. Shaw impressed one as be-
ing a man of learning and of careful
thought, extremely liberal in his opinions,
and not a member of any Church. They
have one daughter married who resides in
Boston. They were, judging from con-
versation, favorably impressed with Utah
and the people, with the services at the
Tabernacle, with the Governor and with
Saltair and our beautiful Lake. It was
indeed very gratifying to meet Mrs. Shaw
and her husband and to renew the acquain-
tance or over half a century.

	“The day is short, O friend,
		That reaches out before us;
	God’s tender heavens above us bend,
		His love is smiling o’er us;
	A little while is ours
		For sorrow or for laughter;
	I’ll lay the hand you love in yours,
		On the shore of the Hereafter.”


