PAMPHLET ON SERICULTURE.

	THE Utah Silk Commission have just
brought out a treatise on silk raising, that
will give all the necessary information on
this useful and remunerative industry.
The ladies have taken great pains to col-
lect practical facts and give them to the
public in order to facilitate the work of
those, who desire to engage in this interest-
ing and important home manufacture.
Looking over the book carefully, one can-


not fail to notice how very clearly every-
thing is told, and that there are no super-
fluous words or language, but a setting
forth of instructions that even the newest
beginner and the most inexperienced novice
in the art of silk culture will readily under-
stand.
	The book opens with instructions in re-
gard to the advantages of climate, and
other facilities within the state, and gives
much that is valuable and advantageous to
know of this wonderful little creature, the
silk worm; also concerning mulberry trees
and the care of the worms, feeding and pro-
tecting them and the best methods of treat-
ment and of carrying on the work; then
comes in full, An Act of the Legislature of
1896- in which the law was passed for the
establishment of sericulture in the state of
Utah, and this is followed by some pages
of definite information upon mulberry trees
and their care, next raising the worms and
the explicit treatment and methods, with
tables showing what can be done, the
necessary space allotted for certain numbers
and so on; and under heads farther on
TAKING CARE OF THE SEED, HATCHING
AND REELING.
	There are several plates in the book illus-
trating these processes, and in fact it is the
most complete work on this subject that
has ever been published here in Utah. The
commission are anxious this book should
be circulated in the state, and persons who
wish to raise cocoons or manufacture silk
should send to Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Secretary of the Utah Silk Commission for
the book, if they expect to follow out the
wisest and best methods to make the work
successful and profitable. The commission
is very anxious to encourage and promote
silk culture, and to make it a source of
revenue to individuals and to the state. It
was with this object in view that the Legis-
lature passed this act to establish it and ap-
propriated money to aid and foster the in-
dustry in the new state; and knowing
what has been accomplished in the past,
and what has been done recently in some
localities in Cache, Utah and Washington
counties, it is little less than a crime to let
this industry languish when there are so
many idle hands that could with a little
energy and perseverance help themselves
instead of being dependent. The results
obtained in reeled silk, lace and other arti-
cles as also in dress goods, are excellent.
The lace surpasses in beauty that which is
imported, and like other home made goods
will out-last and out-wear foreign fabrics,
and of course other things will also; the
whitest silk reeled from the white Russian
cocoons is very beautiful, almost dazzlingly
so. There could not be a more suitable
occupation for young girls than the reeling
of silk from the cocoons, which can be done
in their own homes, and is light and simple
employment, and one need not serve for
years to learn this business; the reelers will
be furnished where there is a sufficient
number of girls to form a class and cocoons
enough to warrant the necessary expendi-
ture of public money.
	We again invite correspondence on this
subject from those who have been success-
ful in obtaining satisfactory results.


