[Column 2]
	The book coming at just the right time,
the Jubilee celebration, will attract more
attention and we ardently wish Mr. Lam-
bourne might realize in a greater degree
than book men usually do, pecuniary bene
fit from the sale of the work of his pen and
brain. But we are well aware that it is
with him as with geniuses generally a
labor of heart and soul interwoven with the
love of his subject.
	Mr. Lambourne gives such vivid descrip-
tions of scenery and of storms, sunrises,
sunsets, moonlight, and of dancing that we
can easily fancy the real picture, and he al-
so gives with pathetic feeling the sad side
of the picturesque journey in deaths and
burials by the wayside, the night guard
and all from an artistic standpoint, which
cannot fail to gratify the most fastidious
lover of the romantic and of a high class of
literature.
	The book will contain eighteen photo-
gravure plates of scenes that are natural
and finely executed. Beginning with
Nebraska landscape with a prairie fire, Sun-
set on the Platte River, The Unbroken
Prairie, Court House Rock. Chimney Rock,
Scotts Bluffs. Left by the Roadside,
Abandoned Camp, Among the Black Hills,
Laramie Peak, Sweetwater River, The
Devil’s Gate, The Night Guard, A Buffalo
Herd, Independence Rock, Ford of the
Green River, Moonlight in Echo Cañon,
First glimpse of the Valley; all these pic-
tures will be not only dear to the pioneers
and others who crossed the plains in those
early days, but will bring to view the
many scenes and exploits of the past and
help to rivet them in the minds of this and
succeeding generations. These reminiscen-
ces are well worth preserving in the delight-
ful style in which this note-worthy book is
sure to be prepared. Mr. Lambourne not
only puts his heart into his work but he al-
so gets the best material to set it off.
	The paper itself will be such as an artist
would be likely to use in our day, antique,
decle-edge, and the type new, clear and odd,
in fact no pains will be spared to commend
it to public notice. It will be issued from the
press of George Q. Cannon and Sons Co.,
and will be The First Art Book In Utah of
home production, which is likely to prove
a high recommendation. We hope and
trust the Semi Centennial Commission will
purchase a sufficient number of copies of
Mr. Lambourne’s book “The Old Jour-
ney” to present one to each of the living
pioneers of 1847. One cannot even look
over the pictures without being forcibly
reminded of the original, and many tender
recollections of the past spring to mind that
had been buried or for the time forgotten.
	Mr. Lambourne makes some telling com-
parisons between the past and the present,
which will be calculated to awaken thought
and perchance stimulate young people to
emulate the valor and heroism of the noble
and valiant pioneers of these mountain vales.


