point of the Delta, in Lower Egypt. It
was the ancient capital of that country, and
was one hundred and fifty furlongs, or
more than seven leagues in circumference.
Southward from Memphis this latter king
raised a lofty mole or hill; and on the right 
and left he dug very deep moats to receive
the river. These were faced with stone,
and raised near the city by strong cause-
ways; the whole designed to secure the
place from inundations of the Nile, and in-
cursions of the enemy. A city so well


[Column 1]
situated and so strongly fortified—that it
was almost the Key of the Nile, and by this
means commanded the whole country—
soon became a usual residence of the Egyp-
tian kings; and remained so until Alexan-
dria was built, by Alexander the Great.
This city is situated 112 miles northwest
from Cairo; under the dynasty of the Ptolem-
ies the city made great progress. Alexan-
dria was the chief emporium for the com-
merce of India; and it also became at this
time the center of the sciences, such as
mathematics, astronomy etc. It contained
an immense library, the largest of antiquity,
chiefly collected by Ptolemy Soter and
Ptolemy Philadelphus, which consisted
of 700,000 volumes, about 400,000 of which
were destroyed by fire when Julius Caesar
was blockaded in the Greek part of the
city, during his war with the Alexandrians,
and the remaining volumes were destroyed
by Amron—the general of Caliph Omar, the
Saracen—A D. 640.
	After falling before the Roman arms
Alexandria scarcely lost any of its splendor;
but when conquered by the Caliphs, and
subjected to the Saracen yoke, it then be-
gan and continued to decline, until the dis-
covery of a passage to India by the Cape of
Good Hope in 1497, gave the final blow to
its importance and trade. Its chief ecclesi-
astical building is the Mosque of the Thou-
sand and One Pillars. This city was
founded 332 B. C., and Dinocrates, a cele-
brated architect, who rebuilt the temple of
Diana at Ephesus, was engaged to lay out
its plan. There are now very few remains
by which its ancient magnificence can be
recognized.
	One of the two obelisks known as Cleo-
patra’s Needles, was first acquired for Eng-
land by Sir Ralph Abercrombie in 1801, at
which time it had long been embedded in
the sand and mud of the shore. It was not
removed at that time, but was presented to
the British government by Mehemet Ali,
the first Khedive of Egypt, and again offer-
ed to them by the next Khedive in 1877.
It now stands on the Thames embankment
—England—between the Charing Cross
and Waterloo bridges, and was erected at
this place on the 12th of September, 1878.
Mr. John Dixon was entrusted with the
work of removing and seeing to the safe
transportation of this obelisk. The Eng-
lish Monolith, as well as the other one
which is in New York City, is of hard,
compact red granite, known as Theban
stone, which was obtained from the quar-
ries of Syene on the Nile.
	It is supposed that these Egyptian relics
were brought to Alexandria from some
ancient Egyptian temple, during Greek or
Roman rule, and are stated to have been
originally erected at Heliopolis about 1600
B. C., by the King Thothmes III., and as
amongst the hieroglyphics with which they
are covered, the names of Thothmes III., of
Rameses II., and of a still later king have
been deciphered upon one of them, it seems
probable that their true history and origin
has yet to be discovered; but we can be
sure that they date back to an early period 
of Egyptian history. The obelisk that
was standing at Alexandria when the Eng-
lish were removing theirs, was examined by
Mr. Dixon. This engineer thought he
could perhaps obtain information respecting
the time of its removal to Alexandria.
“After obtaining permission from the Khe-
dive, he took away considerable soil, sand
and debris, when he found that its buried
base was resting upon a construction of 

