[Column 2]
themselves with her cause. His willful
ness made her very unhappy. Hearing of
his sickness she sent her own physician to
him and prevailed upon him to return to
Edinburgh. One week later the house he
lodged in was blown up with powder and
his lifeless body was found near by. His
death was not so great a surprise as the
mystery which surrounded it. Bothwell
was accused of the crime with Mary as an
accomplice. Historians are divided on the
question, but Miss Benger who is a late
writer and authority says the last fifty
years has cleared much that was doubtful,
and gives stronger arguments in favor of
her innocence than can be found against it.
“Of no character in history,” she continues
“is there so much that is contradictory.”
Manvissire, ambassador between Scotland
and England at this time writes of his be-
lief in her innocence, although he was not
partial to her. We have in her life in-
numerable instances of her kindness of
heart, of her loving disposition, of her gen-
tleness and forbearance towards those who
differed in opinion with her. Such a deed
is worthy only of a Mary of England, or a
Catharine D. Medicis. Bothwell was sum-
moned to appear with others for trial, but
was acquitted.
	He now determined to marry the queen
and to this end gained the consent and
signatures of his nobles, carried Mary to
his Castle at Dunbar where she remained
for ten days, and whether prompted by
fear or worn and disheartened by the cares
around her, she consented to the marriage
which was performed quietly a few days
later. Bothwell treated her as a prisoner,
sentinels stood at her chamber door. No
one came to her but by his permission.
She was most wretched every day she was
seen to weep and bewail her unhappy lot.
For Bothwell she entertained no feeling
but that of fear. He attempted to gain
possession of the young prince, but was de-
feated by the uprising of the people. Mary
and Bothwell met the nobles at Carberry
hill, but the soldiers refusing to fight under
Bothwell, she placed herself under their
protection, on the assurance that Bothwell
should leave the field in safety. He sailed
for Denmark and in a few years died in-
sane. Thus ended the marriage of one
month.
	She now found herself a captive, and
more, was requested by the nobles to abdi-
cate the throne in favor of her son, during
whose minority her brother Murray was to
be regent. Feeling there was no alterna-
tive she complied with their demands. It
seems strange that among all those who
had enjoyed her prosperity there were none
to espouse her cause in this trying hour.
For one year she remained in captivity,
then made her escape, collected an army of
6,000 men only to be defeated. She hasti-
ly fled from Scotland, determined to throw
herself on the kindness of Elizabeth, but
on entering England found herself a prison-
er. The English queen professed to feel
much sorrow for her, but requested her to
clear her name from all complicity in the
murder of Darnley. Mary answered in her
own right she was a queen and Elizabeth’s
equal, and denied their authority to sum-
mon her to trial. For eighteen years she
remained in England a captive. Many
times she was brought to trial, but nothing
proved against her, but for the safety of
the Protestant party and Elizabeth’s peace
of mind, was kept a prisoner. Finally a


conspiracy was formed for the assassination of
Elizabeth, and Mary was accused of being
one of the number. She denied all knowl-
edge of it but was condemned to death,
Elizabeth signing her death warrant.
Through these long years of imprisonment
Mary Beaton remained her faithful compan-
ion. The time was passed in study and
needlework.
	Her last days were spent in Forthering-
hay Castle. On February 7, 1586, the
Lords of Shrewsbury and Kent presented
themselves before her and read the sentence
of execution, which was to take place the
following morning at eight o’clock. She
expressed surprise at the short time given
her, but commenced preparation at once.
She wrote several letters, made her will,
remembering each servant, and wishing she
could better repay their fidelity. She then
retired to her bed, arose early in the morn-
ing and spent some time in prayer, after
which she dressed with unusual care. She
wore a black satin dress with long sleeves
and train, while a black veil fell to her feet,
an ivory crucifix was suspended from her
neck When the sheriff came she accom-
panied him from the room, but requested
that some of the servants might witness
her last moments; her physician, steward
and two maids were allowed to accompany
her. In the hall of the Castle was arranged
a platform of about two feet in height;
Mary advanced with dignity to the edge
and was lifted by her steward to the stage,
where a seat was placed for her use. The
executioners came forward to ask her for-
giveness. She knelt and prayed for the
Church, the queen of England and for her
son; then tenderly took leave of her atten-
dants, who were overcome with grief. A
handkerchief was bound across her eyes,
and laying her head upon the block, with
the crucifix in her hands, she repeated soft-
ly, “In Thee O, Lord I have put my
trust.” So perished Mary Stuart in the
forty-sixth year of her age and the nine-
teenth of her captivity. We are apt to
look with disfavor upon those unfortunate
enough to meet with a succession of re-
verses; thinking perhaps, if not an inflic-
tion of Providence, it must be the result of
their blindness or folly. But I can see
only a woman, weak and erring it may be,
being only human, but kind and loving to
her friends, merciful and compassionate to
her enemies. We may now safely say
with the Archbishop of Burges who was
appointed to preach her funeral sermon in
Paris, “Marble and brass and iron decay,
or are devoured by rust, but in no age how-
ever long the world may endure, will the
memory of Mary Stuart, queen of Scotland
and Dowager of France, cease to be re-
garded with affectionate rememberance.”
