AN INTERESTING TRIP. 

Editor Exponent:

	THINKING the work of the Relief Soci-
ety in Snowflake Stake ought to be occa-
sionally represented in your columns, I
take pleasure in penning the following re-
tort of a recent visit to the branches of the
pociety in the forest. 
	Our party consisted of Stake President
Emma S. Smith, Vice-President Sarah
Driggs and Mary J. West the Secretary,
and Joseph Robinson as driver. Sending
our appointments ahead we lelt home the
22nd of April to fill them.


[Column 1]
Our first appointment was at Pinedale,
eighteen miles from Snowflake. Arizona
is noted for its windy days but this was one
of the very worst. The wind blew direct-
ly in our faces making it disagreeable for
us and hard pulling for the horses.
	Meeting was to begin at 2 o’clock so we
drove to Mrs. Dalton’s where the sisters
were already assembling. Mrs. Brewer
had prepared dinner for us but when she
saw we were late she concluded we had
dined somewhere else and so came on to
meeting. The house was as clean as
whitewash and scrubbing brushes could
make it, but when Mrs. Dalton found out
how cold we were she removed her fire-
board and soon had a blazing fire, before
which we gradually thawed out. In the
meantime Sister Brewer discovered that we
were hungry as well as cold, and brought
us some warm dinner. After having eaten
quite heartily we felt more like mission-
aries and proceeded with the meeting.
	The organization there was quite complete
and the sisters seemed to be alive to their
duties. They are starting a LITTLE STORE
which they hope will aid them financially.
A baby was taken seriously ill during the
meeting, and prayers were offered for the
little sufferer which we feel our Father in
heaven has deigned to answer.
	After meeting we drove over to Bishop
Peterson’s which is a mile and a half from
the town. Here we were very kindly
entertained by Sister Peterson.
	Besides Relief Society work we were de-
sirous of doing something in regard to wo-
man’s suffrage as well, and with this ob-
ject in view held a meeting in the evening.
	Bishop Peterson was feeling very poorly
still he treated us with great consideration
and seemed pleased with our visit.
	The next morning after breakfast we 
started for Linden six miles distant, our 
appointment being for 10 a. m. The ride
through the tall pines was extremely
pleasant, but notwithstanding that fact it
seemed a very long six miles. The reason
became evident as we neared the town 
which proved to be Adair and not Linden,
which thus lengthened our drive into 
twelve miles. We had taken the wrong 
road.
	The word that we were coming had not
been circulated so we concluded to visit
that Society on our return and drove on to
Woodland, a distance of sixteen miles.
	This quiet little nook is pleasantly
located among the pines. The farmers de-
pend upon the rainfall to moisten their 
land which we were told is very fertile.
We stopped with Bishop Hansen and he
caused us to open our eyes in astonishment
when he told of the great amount of vege-
tables he raised last year, his son he said,
was equally successful with wheat. Even
lucern does well there although it requires
so much water. There are good facilities
for reservoirs and the people think the out-
look for the future is very good.
	As our party was large some of us were
invited to sleep at other places. The Bishop
kindly proffered to act as guide saying that
two blocks away we would find accommo-
dation. Before reaching the place des-
ignated, Sister West grew very weary and
remarked, “Why Bishop I understood you
to say it was only two blocks to your son’s
house.” “So I did,” he replied, “two
forty acre blocks.”
	The next day we held meeting in the
school room at 10 a. m. A Relief Society

