[Column 2]
was organized and every one made a few
remarks. The Bishop, who by the way, is
amiable and good as a man can well be,
was present and Sister Smith was led to
prophecy many grand things concerning
him. If the good spirit ever flowed freely
in a meeting it certainly did in this one,
and it was indeed a spiritual feast.
	Two miles from Woodlands is Pinetop
where we were due at 3 o’clock, but oh,
how we were shaken before we reached
there! The road was rough and the over-
hanging boughs came nearly taking off the
carriage cover.
	Pinetop is a larger place than we ex-
pected to find, still it does not rival New
York. There are several families living
there who do not belong to the Church, but
we found a number of sisters who appeared
to be firm in the faith. Their president
had moved away and they desired a re-
organization. This was accomplished with
apparent satiefication to all. Sister West
gave a model sermon to beginners in the
work, and timely instructions were added
by Sisters Smith and Driggs.
	Leaving there as soon as meeting was
over we next wended our way to Ellsworth.
If we had been shaken while going to Pine-
top, we were re-shaken while leaving there,
although part of the way was very fine.
	It was after dark when we reached our
destination, but Mrs. Mary A. Ellsworth
had a fire in her cozy sitting room and such
a nice supper prepared that we thought
traveling was not so bad after all. Our
hostess had a presentiment that we would
be tired, and with her usual thoughtful-
ness for others, had invited the sisters to
meet at her home and save us the long
walk.
	The organization there was complete and
the sisters doing as well as they could un-
der the circumstances.
	The next morning we visited the Sab-
bath School, then took dinner with Mrs.
Nellie Merrell whose house was as neat as
the one we had just left, and immediately
started to Adair where we arrived at 2
o’clock. Our faces and wraps were cover-
ed with dust but we converted our handker-
chiefs into brushes, and after using them
vigorously for a few moments went into
meeting. After the sacrament was admin-
istered the time was given to our party
who recovered from their astonishment
sufficiently to make the meeting a very
interesting one. Here also we found the
organization complete, but as the houses
are very much scattered it is difficult for
the sisters to meet except in pleasant
weather.
	In the evening we held a suffrage meet-
ing which was well attended. We were
hospitably entertained by Sister Brady un-
til the next morning.
	As we had missed Linden going up we
concluded to try once more to find it. As
before we took the wrong road but were
overtaken by a boy who directed us to the
right one, where we jogged along merrily
enough until we reached the place. This
was our last meeting but by no means the
least as far as the pleasure went. The sis-
ters were all feeling well in the Gospel.
One or two officers were needed, which
were promptly voted in and valuable in-
structions were given by Sister Smith and
ourselves. Sister Driggs dwelt especially
upon punctuality in whatever we under-
take.
	The meeting over we were invited to dif-

[Column 3]
ferent places to dinner, and came away
with a good opinion of Linden cooks. It
was raining when we left but it soon clear-
ed up and we reached home in safety, find-
ing all well.
	We had been gone five days, traveled
nearly one hundred miles and held nine
meetings. We feel very grateful indeed
for the good feeling with which we were
everywhere received, and trust our friends
will be amply repaid for their kindness
to us. 
	Whether any good seed was sown re-
mains to be seen, but of this we are confi-
dent that the blessings of the Lord were
showered abundantly upon us during our
absence.
		DELLA FISH, Stake Sec., R. S.


