[Column 2]
accepted. Sister Sorensen gave a report of
her work in Idaho where she had been
laboring the last month; she said she had
been very successful and a great deal of the
credit was due to the brethren who had
assisted her by every means in their power.
	The following program was carried out:
Lecture on Social Purity, by Sister Lydia
Brown of Pleasant Grove. She said the
underlying course of soical impurity was
the ignorance of the parents, their not un-
derstanding the great influence heredity
has in the molding of character.
	Sister Rose Hayes treated the subject of
Mother and Child. She said the true mis-
sion of woman is to bear and rear children,
and that the love that exists between
mother and child was one of the strongest
of human ties; that a woman should under-
stand child nature and so from the first
give the child proper training, for it is
easier to mold than to reform.
	Sister Cluff, of Skull valley was called up-
on to address the Conference. She was
thankful for the knowledge she possessed
of the work, for it had been a great bless-
ing to her, as she believed it would be to
any woman who would take it up.
	Sister Lucy Heppler, of Richfield, Sevier
Co., bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the work.
	Mrs. Dorathy Gunn spoke of the proper
care we should take of our bodies and the
value of nature’s remedies, Air, Water and
Sunshine.
	Several of the brethren were called upon
to speak. They expressed themselves as
being pleased with the work and encour-
aged the sisters to continue in it.
	Sister Ollie Hildahl recited “O My
Father.” Adjourned until 2 o’clock by
singing “We thank Thee O God for a
prophet.” Prayer by John Hafen.
	AFTERNOON SESSION. Began by sing-
ing “Guide us O Thou Great Jehovah;”
prayer by Brother George Goddard; sing-
ing “O My Father;” outline of the ward
missionary work read by Sister Julia S.
Woolley.
	Child Training, was to have been given
by Sister Keeler, of Provo, but as she was
unavoidably absent her husband, Bishop
Keeler read her paper
	Dr. H. A. Anderson treated the subject
of Preparation for Marriage, in a very in-
teresting manner. Sister Olive Anderson
spoke on the subject of Hygienic Cooking,
said great care should be taken in selecting
and preparing food as to its nutritive value;
for the object of partaking of food is to sus-
tain life, that grains were of the greatest
value if properly cooked.
	Sister Ollie Hildahl’s subject was Dress.
She said we should dress artistically, but
not sacrifice health for fashion.
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor spoke of the
necessity of an improvement in our way of
living, that God has given us the Word of
Wisdom as a guide. Singing Doxology;
prayer by Bishop Elias Morris.
	JULIA S. WOOLLEY Ass’t. Secretary.


