[Column 2]
of silk—so any one can go right to work 
and with proper attention, be well 
repaid for the labor or the time they give.
	A reeler is employed by the State to
teach the art of reeling which is not difficult
and can be and has been done upon the
old-fashioned spinning wheels; but reeling
and not spinning is desired. A twenty-
five cent bounty is given on each pound of
good cocoons, and the reeling is performed
where one hundred pounds are raised; this
industry with method and attention for six
weeks can be made quite lucrative. A
club of ladies in Springville last year made a
grand success and feel very much encouraged.
What is there to hinder other ladies doing
so? I would say profit by their example,
take this as an incentive and “go thou and
do likewise.” Do not let a lack of energy 
be a stumbling block to you but arise and
follow out the counsel of the Prophet Brig-
ham Young; he gave a great impetus to 
this industry and expended thousands of
dollars upon it. 
	A Mrs. Dunyon and her family insix
weeks raised seven hundred pounds of
cocoons and this County paid two dollars
per pound for a large growth of cocoons,
and we sent some to Washington, D. C.
and received $1.25 per pound for them,
Congress furnishing free labels for trans-
portation. By having your cocoons reeled
up, you thus have your silk in a market-
able condition which will net you a nice
sum, or it can be woven into dress goods
of which you could be justly proud.
Home manufacture is the watchword now
as heretofore and whereby a nation can be-
come independant. We expect to see this
enterprise fully established; the climate is
nowhere better adapted for the cultivation
of silk.
	The Japanese have proven and acknowl-
edge this, our native silk is pronounced by
experts to be of the best texture. The
loom belonging to our Association was
woven upon at the World’s, as well as our
own Territorial Fair. We have fabric on
hand all silk and have sold four dress pat-
terns, poplin, woolen warp with native
silk filling. Our Silk Flag woven Kersey
14x8 is made entirely of native silk; but
we should go on to greater success and per-
fection. All that we need is proper machin-
ery to work up and give lustre to our silk,
and I am sanguine that means will be
forthcoming to this end. Speed the day is
the desire of, 
					M. A. TILL,
President Utah Co. Silk Association.


THE Princess of Wales has written to the
Lord Mayor of London, pointing out that
in the schemes to commemorate Queen
Victoria’s diamond jubilee, the poorest of
the poor, the tenants of the London slums,
have been overlooked. She says: “Might 
I plead that, they also shall have, a share in
the fetes of that blessed day, and so remem-
ber to the end of their lives that great and
good queen whose reign, by the blessing 
of God, has been prolonged for sixty years?
Let us, therefore, provide these unfortunate
ones, these beggars and outcasts, with a
dinner or some substantial meal during the
week of the jubilee commemoration. I
have great pleasure in heading a subscrip-
tion list for the purpose with £100.”
	CHICAGO University has received from
Mrs. Mary Esther Reynolds a gift of
$225,000.


