AN INTERESTING TIME.
	ON Saturday February 6, 1897, the an-
nual and quadrennial meeting of the Seven-
teenth ward Relief Society took place at 10
a. m. in the Relief Society hall, President
Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. The main
object of the meeting was to elect a board of
directors to act during the ensuing four years.
This was effected with the following result:
President, Clarissa S. Williams; first Vice-
President, Sophia Nultall; second Vice-
President, Johanna Brobery; Secretary,


Elizabeth Wilcox; Treasurer, Jane M. C.
Young.
	Tuesday April 13, being the regular day
for a spiritual meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety (these meetings alternate with the busi-
ness meetings) the following guests re-
sponded to invitations to be present: Sis-
ters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith, E.
B. Wells and M. I. Horne of the Central
board, and M. I. Horne, Annie T. Hyde,
Clara C. Cannon, Margaret Y. Taylor and
M. W. Wilcox of the Stake board, with
E. J. Stevenson, Julia C. Howe, L. D.
Alder, and M. A. P. Hyde, Sister Julia I.
Pack, Bishop W. J. Beatie and his counsel-
or A. T. Barnes.
	After the opening exercises President C.
S. Williams made opening remarks, said
this was the regular day for the spiritual
meeting of the Relief Society. A new ex-
ecutive board had recently been elected and
the visiting sisters and the ward bishopric
had been invited to meet with the Relief
Society to do honor to the retiring President
B. W. Smith, and her counselor, Julia I.
Pack. Both sisters had served long and
faithfully and were much honored and be-
loved by their associates, who had received
great blessings from their counsel and in-
struction. Sister Smith needed more free-
dom for her Temple and other duties, and
Sister Pack had removed to Kamas. Speak-
ing for the society Sister Williams gave
greeting to the visitors and bade them all
welcome.
	Remarks both instructive and edifying
were made by the visitors and bishopric.
Sister Zina D. H. Young desired to know
how many cf the old Nauvoo Relief Soci-
ety were present. A show of hands indi-
cated five, Sisters Z. D. Young, B. W.
Smith, S. E. Merrill, M. I. Horne and
Julia L Pack. Interesting reminiscences
of those early days were given, also of the
first organization in the Seventeenth ward.
The elder sisters showed the need, and
urged upon the younger sisters to become
members of, and active workers in the Re-
lief Society labor. Spoke of the great
good accomplished by the Society, con-
gratulated the society present upon owning
the building in which they met. All ex-
pressed themselves as greatly pleased to be
present and Sister Young said she thought
these meetings grand. After partaking of
a spiritual feast, dainty refreshments were
served by dainty young ladies, and all de-
parted feeling it was a privilege to have
been there. 
