[Column 2]
Hall, April 17, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “Lord we
come before Thee now;” prayer by Sister
M. E. Kimball; singing “O say what is
truth.” The minutes of the previous meet-
ing were read and approved. President
Horne felt very happy in meeting with the
sisters today, more so if possible, for the
reason she had not been here for some
time. Felt these meetings were more
educational than any others the sisters
could attend; thought that President
Young was inspired when he organized
these Associations. Said that those who
feared God met often and spoke one to
another, and a book of remembrance was
kept and these testimonies were all entered.
Referred to some remarks of President
Young wherein he said that if the Saints
would be humble and more united, it
would not be long before the rest of the
Book of Mormon would be given us.
Spoke of the goodness of God to us; those
who gave to the poor loaned to the Lord.
President Horne felt this Hall had been
kept from desecration and from evil spirits;
for we could all testify to the good times
we have had in this building. Prayed we
might always be faithful, and that the good
spirit might continue to be with us. Sis-
ter Mary Silver felt glad she was a Latter-
day Saint and bore her testimony. Sister
Morris bore her testimony and asked for
the faith and prayers of the sisters.
	A sister from Brigham City felt pleased
to be here in this meeting today, had look-
ed forward to it, for she felt she would re-
ceive a blessing; was very much interested
in the work and said when she received
her EXPONENT the first thing she read
was the minutes of these meetings; bore a
strong testimony.
	Sister Wright made some remarks Felt
very thankful for her many blessings and
more especially that she could go into the
Temple and do work for her kindred. Re-
ferred to the time when she first joined the
Church, and said her desire was to do
good. Singing “O give me back my pro-
phet dear.”
	Counselor E. Webb felt thankful to hear
the sisters appreciated the Gospel in the
way they did. Said we could go to our
Heavenly Father with any and everything
and ask Him to help and comfort us, and
were sure of an answer. He was always
near us to help when He was sought
earnestly. Spoke of Temple work and
urged the sisters who lived near to came to
the Temple and do for their dead all that
was possible. Prayed the spirit of testi-
mony might be poured out upon the sisters.
	Sister Louie Stevenson made some re-
marks, and spoke of her son who is on a
mission, and how he was received by the
outsiders. Sister Margaret O. Brown re-
ferred to the last April conference, felt it
was the best conference we had ever had,
the brethren had all been inspired who
spoke to us. God always answered her
prayers; whenever she wanted to know any-
thing she asked Him and He always en-
lightened her.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of her
Temple work and what a grand work she
considered it was. Exhorted the sisters to
be kind to one another, and not to judge
but to help and bless one another. Prayed
God to bless us all.
	Sister Catherine Forsythe bore her testi-
mony and spoke on prayer. Sister Mar-
garet Thompson bore her testimony, and

[Column 3]
said she felt it was good to be here. Sing- 
ing “The trials of the present day.”
	Sister Jane James felt she could not keep 
away from these meetings if she tried.
Spoke of her children and the anxiety she
felt for them; felt to bless Sister Horne for
the teachings she had given to her. Sister
Betsy Brower bore her testimony.
	Sister Elizabeth Brown felt she must 
bear her testimony she felt so overjoyed
for the Gospel, also that we could ask the
Lord for blessings and be sure that they
would be given us; made some beautiful
remarks.
	Sister Davis bore her testimony, said she
felt very grateful for the Gospel, and spoke
of when she first joined the Mormons; felt 
very anxious over her friends who were in 
the East and who do not believe as she 
does
	Sister Sarah Phelps said her constant
prayer and desire was that the honest in
heart might be gathered out from the judg-
ments that were coming upon them. Urged
the sisters to be faithful and diligent, and
do all they could. Prayed God to bless us.
	Sister Julia C. Howe wished to testify to
the goodness of God, and said she had been
greatly blessed and comforted by being
here today. Spoke of her Temple work
and how she had been blessed in it; hoped
the sisters would be more diligent and
faithful in serving the Lord. Said we
must encourage one another, that our ex-
ample meant much. Spoke of a party she
attended when President Young was alive,
also referred to his remarks. Prayed God
to bless Sister Horne for her words of com-
fort and wisdom.
	Sister Harriet Badger bore her testi-
mony and made some beautiful remarks.
Sister Margaret Taylor said she was invited
to attend the matinee this afternoon, and
was in a quandary whether she would go
there or attend this meeting, she felt she
had chosen wisely by coming here for she
had been greatly blest. Prayed God to
bless us all.
	Counselor E. Stevenson urged the sisters
to come to the Temple at least one day a
week; felt our time was short. Referred
to the remarks of President Woodruff at
Brigham City when he said the Angel of
Destruction had gone forth; she said we
could testify to this when we pick up the
daily papers. Prayed we might be more
diligent and faithful.
	President Horne made a few closing re-
marks, and meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing “Weep, weep not for
me Zion.” Benediction by Sister Annie
T. Hyde.
