PARTY IN THE LION HOUSE.

	ON Thursday afternoon April 29, Sister
Margaret P. Young gave a most enjoyable
party in the interesting parlor of the Lion
House. Most of the guests present were
Temple workers; of others there were Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon and President
Angus M. Cannon, Elder A. M. Musser
and a few sisters who were either relatives
or intimate friends among which number
the writer was delighted to be included, as
the company was very select and the house
itself is exceedingly historic, perhaps the
most so of any residence in the State.
	The afternoon was passed in social con-
versation mostly reminiscent of the house,
its illustrious owner and its belongings, of
incidents connected with it and the people
who were familiar and frequent guests
there in the days of President Brigham
Young.
	There were present of his wives besides
the hostess Sister Margaret Young, Sisters
Zina D. H. Young, Emily P. Young,
Naamah T. Young, Lucy B. Young and
Harriet B. Young, and quite a number of his
children which made the house seem much
more natural and homelike than it other-
wise would. The fact of President Young
having died in that house being spoken of,
the guests were told they might visit the
room in which his spirit took its departure
from his mortal body; a large number of
the company availed themselves of this
opportunity; Sister Eliza R. Snow’s death
in the room adjoining the parlor was also
spoken of with tender feeling, and these,
with other more cheerful subjects, formed
interesting matter to dwell upon.
	After refreshments were served and all
had partaken in a social way, one or two
recitations were given and the little grand-
son of Sister Margaret Young played some
difficult musical compositions on the violin,
several very fine musical selections were
given on the piano by Spencer Clawson
Jun, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards sang
in the most delightful way in her exquisite
clear voice the beautiful song by Millard
entitled “Waiting,” and later on by
request, gave “ O, My Father;” and
then there was a little old fashioned
dancing more for the sake of “Auld Lang
Syne” than any particular enjoyment in
the dancing itself. Then a recitation
“Flossie’s Marriage” by Miss Mabel
Snow was given in a very graceful and
forcible manner; afterwards, President
Lorenzo Snow a dressed the brethren and

