READ AT THE REAPERS CLUB SEP. 1897.
	SCOTLAND was before her with its rough
quarreling, contentions, factions, and
though she strive with all her womanly
might, what would it weigh against ambi-
tion and party strife. She landed at Leith
1561, her subjects receiving her with dem-
onstrations of joy. She determined to treat
the Reformers with kindness and consider-
ation, with the hope of gaining their confi-
dence. But in their leader, John Knox,
she met with strong opposition. He was a
man of great courage and strength of mind,
and the object of his life was to overturn
the power of the Pope in Scotland. He de-
nounced against the mass that was per-
formed in her own chapel, and the extrava-
gance of the court, bewailing as sinful
their dancing and other pastimes.
	The subject of her marriage was a vexed
one. It was urged by Knox that it was
the duty of the states to give her a hus-
band, that she had no right to impose one
on them. The Papists wished her to
marry a Catholic. The Reformers spoke
against one. Elizabeth feared a foreign
contract and presented her favorite the Earl
of Liecester. For three years this formed
the subject of a correspondence between the
two queens. Mary finally resolved to
marry her cousin, Lord Darnley, a man of
fine personal appearance, some three years
her junior. To this Elizabeth objected,
showing her hatred by confining his mother,
the Lady Lennox, in the tower and recall-
ing Darnley and his father from Scotland.
But in spite of all opposition Darnley and
Mary were married and it is said there was
never a more handsome couple. She was
in her twenty-fourth year and never more
beautiful. Darnley was of a grasping, self-
ish disposition, and it soon became appar-
ent that the crown of Scotland was more to
him than the queen. Dissatisfaction arose
between them, he grew envious of the con-
fidence she reposed in her secretary, David
Rezzio, and planned with others his assassina-
tion, which was accomplished, dragging
him from the presence of the queen and
her ladies. Mary vowed to be avenged on
his murderers, but with her gentle, forgiving
disposition it was impossible for her to hold
malice and listening to her husband’s per-
suasions none of the conspirators were
ever brought to justice.
	In July, 1566 a son was born to her to
whom was given the name of James. She
hoped this auspicious event would tend to
unite the different parties. Her days were 
full of anxiety and care. With all the
titles and honor she had bestowed upon
Darnley he was still dissatisfied and desired
to have conferred upon himself the crown
Matrimonial which in case of her death
would leave him king of Scotland. With
his arrogant pride and contempt of all re-
straint she could not feel to give him this.
He retaliated by leaving her society and
seeking that of dissolute companions.
Mary had made her brother, the Earl of
Murray, her minister. He was a devoted
Reformer and as such strongly opposed her
marriage with Darnley. He now incited
her nobles to rebellion, leaving her with
but a small party. James, Earl of Both-
well was one who remained faithful to her
interests; she made him minister in place
of Murray, who had escaped to England.
Darnley she could place no reliance upon.
He seemed suspicious of all who allied

