[Column 2]
ships the saints have had to endure of
which she had a share. She married when
quite a girl in her teens, George A. Smith,
cousin of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
they were always devoted lovers to the
time of his death. They accepted
the principle of plural marriage, and
made a success of its practise.
	Sister Smith’s maiden name was Bigler
and she was born and grew to womanhood
in West Virginia, and has always retained
her love for the South, its customs and its
people. In her youth she was a famous
equestrienne, accounting it as one of her
valued accomplishments.
	The greatest sorrow of her life was the
untimely death of her only son who was
killed by the Indians in Southern Utah
and his body was never recovered. She
bore this great affliction with the heroic
fortitude and sublimity of a Saint, never
repining or murmuring, but calm and
patient, believing that her Father in heaven
knew what was best.
	At the time of the decease of her noble
husband, she felt she too must die, but
when he expressed a wish that she should
live to bear testimony of the truth and of
the mission of Joseph the Prophet, she felt
determined to carry out his counsel. She
has been a careful, patient and devoted
housewife, and has had many opportunities
of practicing the strictest economy. Ac-
cording to Scripture "She seeketh wool and
flax and worketh willingly with her hands.”
	In the primitive days here she did a great
deal of spinning, dyeing and weaving, and
clothed her household with her own handi-
work. Time or space will not permit us
to tell of her many virtues and her industry,
nor of her travelings and journeyings, but
we can truthfully say she has been favored
of the Lord, and that she is deserving of
the many precious privileges and honors
she has received.
	On this special occasion she was the re-
cipient of many floral offerings and of
other gifts of dear friends, which we are
sure she appreciated because of the sisterly
love, friendliness and esteem of which they
were only a trifling expression.
	Sister Smith is second Vice-President
in the National Woman’s Relief Society,
an organization that extends around the
world, and she has occupied various other
positions of honor and trust among women.
At present she officiates in the Salt Lake
Temple, a position for which she is admir-
ably well fitted.
	Apostle John Henry Smith made the ad-
dress of welcome at the birthday celebra-
tion and certainly was eloquent and de-
lightfully happy in his speech. He paid a
high tribute of praise to the one we had
assembled to honor, as a true woman
mother and friend, and a mother in Israel
and a noble example to the Daughters of
Zion; his remarks were followed by the let-
ter given here.
SALT LAKE CITY, April 3, 1897
	My Dear Aunt Bathsheba:
	For some time I have been doting upon at-
tending the reunion of loved ones, kindred and
friends in honor of the seventy-fifth anniversary
of your birth, but Providence has willed it other-
wise; orrather, my physical condition is such that
prudence and the counsel of Dr. Richards will
prevent me from doing so.
	I therefore take this method of expressing re-
grets for my deprivation, and most earnest desire
for the happiness of all who shall gather around
you this evening to do honor to the loved and
worthy object of their affections, in cherished


[Column 1]
memory of, and in gratitude for your auspicious,
natal day.
	Your life has been one of constant energy,
fraught with toil and sacrifice of personal comfort,
and mixed with plentiful sorrow. Along its way
are strewn the personal remains of a darling son,
cut down in his very youth by ruthless savage
hands; of a beloved and loving and honored
husband, who untimely fell beneath the over-
whelming weight of multiplied responsibilities, in
the very midday of an eventful, noble, useful,
wellnigh indispensable life; and of the martyred
brothers and kinsman of your lamented husband
—whose martyrdom sealed their testimony to the
divine and deathless truth which lies at the 
foundation of the cause of Zion, for which you have
endured so much. And yet, your life has been
full of good works, and true womanly deeds,
with real Christian patience, and with love divine, 
the crowning virtues of a well spent, virtuous,
generous life.
	I regard you as a most worthy companion of a 
most noble man—one of the anointed and
chosen of God.
	In this and in the assurance your knowledge of
the Gospel gives—of an eternal companionship
with him, and a glorious reunion with the great-
est spirits of the greatest epoch of the world, and 
association with Christ and God the Father of all
—in the worlds to come you have the surest
promise of most glorious rewards, which so far 
outweigh the deepest trials of this life that they
will be forgotten, or, if remembered at all, only
as the purifying flames of the furnace which help
to consume the dross and purify the gold.
	Aunt Bathsheba, we wish you many, very
many most happy returns of this day. Not only 
this, but that every day between shall be full of
peace and joy and honor to you and yours.
	You have our confidence, our prayers, our love.
We know you to be worthy of all, and more than
we can give, or offer you: and all is yours; we
feel that you have made your calling and election
sure.
	God bless you in this world with health, judg-
ment, peace, joy and plenty, and in the world to
come with all that has been promised you, and
more, are the sincere desires of your affectionate
kinsman and, I trust, unfailing friend, 
					JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	After the reading of President Smith’s let-
ter Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, granddaughter
of Sister Smith, gave a brief sketch of her
grandmother, giving interesting experiences
from her early life and also her connection
and association with the Church up to the 
present time. Among other notable things
we were particularly struck with the
amount of homemade cloth made by this
diligent housewife, wool carded, spun,
colored and woven—and cut and made into
wearing apparel, also flax and so much of
it, that the story seems incredible to those
who live in this later day. To create from
the raw material suitable clothing seems a
desirable handicraft, and we look back with 
admiration upon the heroic women who
had the sublime courage to overcome ob-
stacles, and meet the emergencies of pion-
eer days in a new land far from civilization.
	A synopsis of Sister Smith’s work in
women’s organizations, beginning with
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, by Mrs. 
Clarissa Smith Williams also a daughter of 
President George A. Smith. Sister B. W.
Smith was one of the original members of 
the Relief Society and was present when it
was organized on the 17th of March 1842, in
the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, Illinois, and
she has held different offices in the Society
since that time. At present she is second
Vice-President to the President, Sister Zina
D. H. Young, and Treasurer of the same
Society in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
	Then followed the charming address
from her only daughter, Mrs. Bathsheba
Smith Merrill.
MOTHER.
 	If there is one mortal feeling free from 
the impurities of earthly faith, that tells in

