WEDDING BELLS.

	THE marriage of Miss Maude Pratt to J.
E. Griggs was solemnized in the Salt Lake


Temple in this city, April 22, 1897, by
President Wilford Woodruff.
	Miss Pratt is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Laron Pratt of the 17th Ward, and
the grand-daughter of the late distinguished
Apostle Orson Pratt: the young lady is a
gifted singer of the Tabernacle choir, and is
a member of the Utah Woman’s Press
Club and one of the Aids in the Y. L. M.
I. A. of Salt Lake Stake. The young
husband is a son of T. C. Griggs and is an
honorable, upright citizen. The young
couple have a neat little home of their own
and are beginning right.
	"Though fools spurn Hymen's gentle powers
	We who improve his golden hours.
	By sweet experience know
	That marriage rightly understood
	Gives to the tender and the good
	A paradise below.”
	A reception was held at the residence of
the bride’s parents in the evening which
was an enjoyable affair. The rooms were
profusely decorated with flowering plants
and trailing vines, and also cut flowers
tastefully arranged, and everything be-
tokened a festive occasion. Delicious re-
freshments were daintily served to the
guests by the beautiful girls attired in
white, and a very elaborate and ornamental
wedding cake made in layers was a part of
it, tied in tissue paper and each guest
helped to one of these dainty little parcels.
	The bride was dressed in soft, clinging
white silk trimmed with lace and carried a
bunch of beautiful white roses, looking
very charming and happy—the bridesmaids
were Miss May Pratt the sister of the bride,
in pale green and pink carnations, and Miss
Pearl Russell, in white with red carnations,
both modest in demeanor as becomes beauti-
ful maidens There were two groomsmen
George Morris and Bert Griggs, and alto-
gether the quiet and graceful way in which
the bride and bridegroom and party received,
(the surroundings harmonizing) was very
pretty and appropriate to such an occasion.
Congratulations were very numerous and
earnest, and one cannot but feel that Mr.
and Mrs. Griggs have started on the jour-
ney of life with every prospect of future
prosperity and happiness.
	There were many valuable and useful
presents, gifts from members of the family
and intimate friends.
	We also extend the most sincere con-
gratulations to the young bride and bride-
groom, and wish them the most perfect
happiness consistent for mortals to enjoy in.
this probation, who are gaining an ex-
perience for eternity.
	“If solid happiness we prize,
	Within our hearts the jewel lies
	And they are fools who roam;
	The world has nothing to bestow—
	From our own selves our joys must flow
	And that dear hut our home ”


