[Column 2]
The speaker urged the sisters to be econom-
ical and give to the poor, also to guard
against going into debt. Sister Stevenson
spoke of her recent visit to Davis Co., of
their Relief Society Conference and what a
grand time they had. Referred to the re-
marks of President Hess, felt he was in-
spired greatly. Prayed the good spirit
which we always have might continue to
be with us in these meetings.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon bore a strong
testimony, said she felt well in being here
today. Urged the necessity of doing Tem-
ple work and felt the time would come
when we would not have this privilege,
thought that now we should do all we
could in this direction. Prayed that we
might all be strengthened and built up and
that the Lord would continue to bless us.
	President Mary Ann Hyde said she was
always comforted and blest by hearing the
sisters bear their testimony. The speaker
felt that the Destroyer was at large trying
to lead the young people astray and we
should do what we could to shield them
from these things.
	Sister Mary Ellen Kimball said listening
to the remarks of Sister Hyde reminded
her of the time when they were girls to-
gether. Said she loved a righteous person,
be they Jew or Gentile, bond or free.
	Sister Price bore a strong testimony,
said many times she had tried to bear this
testimony, but felt today she could do this
earnestly.
	Sister Wright felt she must speak of the
goodness of the Lord to her, also referred
to her Temple work. Said when we were
in trouble or difficulty to go to our Heaven-
ly Father and He will always help us.
	Sister Nunn bore her testimony, said we
should have charity and patience for those
who are not blessed in the way we are.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy spoke of the
time when she first joined the Church and
her early experiences. Bore a grand testi-
mony.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde bore her testi-
mony, said whenever any one bore her
testimony something was always said to
help some one. By attending to our duties
and tending to the every day things of life
we were working out our own salvation.
Spoke of the many things we had to fight
against, Christian Science, Theosophy, and
many other things, felt we should always
be prayerful that we might be guarded
against these things. 
	Sister Lydia D. Alder referred to the re-
marks of Sister Hardy, she said though
being in poor health she still kept on with
her work in her ward; bore her testimony.
Spoke of Brother Joseph Horne who had
just passed away and related a dream Aunt
Zina D. H. Young had about Brother
Horne. Said we should be careful and
love one another. Spoke on charity, and
of our President, dear Sister Horne, and
said we should all continue to pray for her.
Prayed we might all have oil in our lamps
and be faithful.
	Sister Sarah Phelps related a dream she 
had about her Temple work; urged the
sisters to go on and do all the Temple
work they could. 
	Sister Stevenson made a few closing re-
marks, asked the sisters to continue pray-
ing for Brother Horne’s family. Singing,
“This God is the God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Sister Julia C. Howe.
