JUBILEE PRIZE COMPETITION.
	THE Semi-Centennial Commission offers
$200 cash in prizes as follows: First, $100
for the best poem on the subject of the
Pioneers or the Pioneer Jubilee, to consist
of not more than one hundred nor fewer
than fifty lines. All compositions to be
signed by an initial or a nom de plume, and
to be forwarded to the secretary of the com-
mission together with a separate envelope
containing the real name of the author,
not later than June 1, 1897,
	Second, $100 for the best musical com-
position in four parts with organ accompani-


ment to the following lines from a poem by
Bishop O. F. Whitney:
ODE TO THE PIONEERS.
Hail to the year of jubilee!
	Let pealing anthems rise,
And bursts of echoing melody
	Loud mingle with the skies!
Let earth resound with music’s power;
	Glad welcoming the year,
When Utah sees her natal hour
	The fiftieth time appear. * * * 
Far down the mystic river of the mind.
A fleet of recollections slowly wind,
A wreath of flowers from Fancy’s garden
	brought,
Historic views on memory’s canvas wrought.
* * * * 
Lo! issuing from the canyon’s rough defile,
Where frowns on either side a lofty pile,
A little band of sun-burnt mountaineers
Halt on the ridge—whose milder summit rears
The towering peaks and plain to intervene—
And gaze with wonder on the glorious scene.
Ah! marvel nothing if the eye may trace
The care lines on each toil-worn hero’s face;
Nor yet if down his cheek in silent show,
The trickling tides of tender feeling flow.

Would e’en the coldest heart forbear to say
Good cause had gratitude to weep that day?
Or censure for a flow of manly tears,
That brave-souled band—immortal Pioneers?
Their names? Go view them on the Golden
	Page,
The gift of glory to remotest age;
The van of civilization’s westward sweep,
The few that sowed what millions yet shall reap

	Composers to have the customary privi-
lege of rearranging or repeating the words.
Competitions to be forwarded to the secre-
tary not later than May 20, 1897, signed by
a nom de plume or an initial, and accom-
panied by a separate envelope containing
the real name of the composer. The ad-
judicators will be selected from competent
musicians outside of the State by whom
the names of the competitors will be un-
known.
	Both the poem and the composition to
be rendered at the reception to the Pioneers
in the Tabernacle, July 20, 1897. Both
competions to be limited to Utah poets and
musicians.
	For further particulars address,
			SPENCER CLAWSON,
							Chairman.


[Column 1]
ARE YOU GOING EAST THIS
SUMMER?
If so you will receive some valuable infor-
mation by calling upon or addressing L. J. 
Kyes, Ticket Agent U. P. Ry., No. 201
South Main Street. 

