RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Sister Phebe Adams Hancock died at Paysont
Utah, Feb 4, 1897. She was born June 7, 1811 a
Middlesex Ontario Co., New York. She was the
daughter of Isaac and Betsy Adams, was married
to Solomon Hancock June 28, 1836, joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the
same year and emigrated to Missouri. Came to
Utah in 1849 and to Payson in 1852, and has lived
in this community ever since that time.
	She leaves three sons and one daughter to
mourn for her. She lived a widow nearly fifty
years and supported her family under many
hardships. She was an officer in the first Relief
Society organized by Joseph Smith the Prophet
at Lima, Illinois. She was also the first counselor
to the president, Sister Rachel Drollinger, when
the Payson Relief Society was organized in 1856,
which position she held for many years. At the
reorganization of the Society In w[-]ich Elizabeth
Lant was President, Sis er Phebe Hancock was
elected Treasurer.
	She suffered mobbings and was driven with 
he Saints from Missouri, and drove her own
eam across the plains from Winter Quarters.
	Therefore, whereas our Heavenly Father has
called her away from earth and our midst to a
higher sphere, we miss our beloved sister and
	RESOLVE, To remember her long for the good
she has accomplished while with us; and further
it is
	RESOLVED, That the members of the Second
ward Relief, Society of Payson, cherish her
memory, emulate her energies, perseverance,
long-suffering and virtues through many persecu-
tions and trials of faith connected with the work
of godliness, benevolence, kindness and charity;
for she was affectionately known as “Aunt
Phebe.” Also that we become like unto her in
all meekness and humility. She was kind and
generous to the poor, ever ready to do good.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family in behalf Of our Society,
by the President and Secretary, one be placed
upon our records and be published in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT with the following appropriate
selected lines.
		“She’s gone her work on earth is done,
	Her battle fought, her race is run,
		Blest is the way she trod;
	For she espous d a g orious cause
	In prompt obedience to the laws
		Of the Eternal God.

