	     BY ADELAIDE COMSTOCK.

BUILD well the temple, ye mothers of men;
For know ye are builders for glory or shame.
Know ye are building for weakness or might,
Know ye are building for darkness or [-]ight,
God has ordained you his workers to be,
Weighed in his bala[-]ce your products must be;
Judged by his justice the work ye have wrought,
Paid by his measure the meed ye have sought.
Lay your foundation in wisdom and love,
And beautiful angels will smile from above;
Building for heaven, ye build well for earth;
Mankind’s greatest need is a holier birth.
Oh, we have builded in sorrow and shame,
Pity us heaven ! we were not to blame;
Groping in darkness we knew not the way,
Light is now breaki[-]g, oh, welcome the day,
Dawn of an era by prophets foretold, 
Sung of by bards, spoke by sages of old,
When angelic hosts shall from heaven proclaim,

Peace upon earth and good will to all men.
Woman, through thee this grand era must come;
Or prophets, bards, sages as well might be 
	dumb;
Can figs grow of thistles? or grapes on the
	thorn?
Or from feverish passion can angels be born ?
Oh, haste thee to cast the symbols of sin,
And say in love’s power—‘ I will be thou clean.”
Call heaven to aid thee and guide thee aright,
And go forth in thy womanhood armed to the
	fight.
Aye, to fight 'gainst false passion and conquer by
	love,
And man lifted higher thy labor shall prove;
For nations shall bless thee for that thou hast
	done,
And glory shall crown thee more bright than the
	sun.
For patriot souls shall then rise in their might,
And build the grand temple of Justice and Right,
Which could not be built until woman should
	come,
To aid in the work from foundation to dome.
And then, in your building, build wisely and well;
How ye have builded the future will tell:
For know the Grand Master will mea[-]ure with
	care
And try every corner with plummet and square.
Then if thou hast built for ambition or fame,
Oh, woe to thee, builder! confusion a d shame
Shall follow thy building; but honored shall be,
The builders who build for eternity.
	San Burnaventura, California.

	Presented by Mrs. Carrie Kester and read by
Mrs. Armeda S. Young in the Woman’s Physiologi-
cal Association conference, held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall, April 7, 1897.


[Column 1]
