tions of Egypt. Natron is a native car-
bonate of soda, and was used by the people
in their embalming process. We know
that Egypt occupied a very early place in
the world’s civilization. Thence Greece
derived her art, literature and science. She
handed them down to imperial Rome,
whose mission it was to diffuse them over
western Europe. The Great Pyramid was
an antiquity in the days when many of the
famous nations of old were in their youth.
The pyramids were rising on the bank of
the Nile at an epoch coeval with that of
Abraham and Isaac. Egypt was a power-
ful and opulent empire in the days of
Joseph; and it was in the Egyptian schools
that Moses received his education.
	One of the most important points in the
history of this land, is the chronological;
involving, as it does, the date of the earli-
est historical epoch of man. In the time of
Ptolemy Philadelphus, during the 3rd cen-
tury B. C., Manetho, high priest of
Heliopolis, drew up at the request of this
king, a history, in which he divided the
space of time from Menes—the first king
of Egypt—up to the reconquest of that
country by Darius II., into thirty dynas-
ties. The work of Manetho has perished,
but the chronological epitomes remain, in
the works of several ancient writers. The
Holy Bible, Herodotus, Diodorus, Josephus,
Eratosthenes and other historians also con-
tain sources of chronological information.
Herodotus saw, and talked with Manetho;
so that probably he obtained many histori-
cal items from him. This Manetho had
been instructed in Grecian learning, which
was a valuable aid to him. Learned writ-
ers have been trying for many years to re-
concile the conflicting statements of vari-
ous ancient historians, in regard to dates.
The national custom in ancient Egypt, was
to reckon any important event from, or in
the reign of that king in whose time it oc-
curred, without using the controlling date
of any cycle. This fact rendered portions
of their early history rather obscure, and
also made it difficult for historians to obtain
perfectly correct information.
	The chronology of Bishop Usher,—which
is from the Hebrew—placed 4004 B. C., as
the date of the Creation, and 2348 B. C.,
for the Deluge; and these dates seem to
have obtained the sanction of theological
writers. The celebrated hieratic papyrus
at Turin, of the age of the 19th dynasty,
which contained a system of chronology
arranged on a principle of cyclic and regnal
years, has unfortunately suffered so much
mutilation, that it is impossible to recon-
struct it satisfactorily. It is therefore bet-
ter to depend upon the account given by
Manetho as to the dynastic succession;—
taking that history as waves of time,—
especially in regard, to the more remote
periods. There is not sufficient monu-
mental or other data, for a sure conclusion
about many of the early rulers. The docu-
ment at Turin, and the list furnished by
Manetho, do not agree as to the number of
kings who ruled in Egypt from the close of


the 6th to the 11th dynasty. It
is therefore supposed that these accounts
represent the succession of rulers in Mem-
phis and Thebes, respectively, during that
period. Mythically, Egypt claims to have
been in existence at a much earlier date
than we have any knowledge of its history.
There were in this land during ancient
times, four principal dynasties; that of
Thebes, Thin, Memphis and Tanis. It was
in the country of Tanis that the Israelites
dwelt. The first period in Egyptian his-
tory begins with the establishment of a
monarchy by Menes, or Misraim, the son of
Cham, or Ham, in the year of the world
1816,—or 2188 B. C.,—and ends with the
destruction of that monarchy by Cambyses,
King of Persia, in the year 525, B. C. The
second period is intermixed with Persian
and Grecian history, and extends to the
death of Alexander the great, which
occured in Babylon, 323 B. C. The third
period is that in which a new monarchy
was formed in Egypt by the Lagida, or
Ptolemies, in 323 B. C, and ended with
the death of Cleopatra, the last queen of
Egypt, which happened in 30 B. C. The
Lagida were descendants of Ptolemy Lagus,
who was supposed to be a natural son of
Philip of Macedon. The Kings of this
line succeeded each other till Cleopatra, a
sister of the last Ptolemy, ascended the
throne when Egypt became a Roman pro-
vince, and continued so until the reign of
Omar, the second Caliph of the successors
of Mahomet, who drove out the Romans,
after it had been in their hands nearly
seven hundred years.
	In 1171 A. D., the Caliph Saladin intro-
duced the Mamelukes into Egypt and
when the power of the Caliphs declined, El
Moez, a slave belonging to that race, set
up the empire of the Mamelukes about
1250, A. D. At the commencement of the
16th century,about 1517 A.D.,Selim,a Turk-
ish emperor, conquered Egypt and for many
years the country was distracted by civil
wars. The French, under Napoleon Bona-
part, invaded that land in 1798, and they
in turn were driven from it by the Turks
and British in 1801, and the country re-
stored to the Ottoman Porte.
	Historians are unanimously agreed that
Menes, or Misraim, was the first king of
