			  ELIZABETH JENKINS PREECE.

	AT a recent meeting of the Relief Society of
the Fourth ward the following references to the
life and work of Sister Elizabeth Jenkins Preece
were entered on the records of the society:
	Sister Elizabeth Jenkins Preece was born in
Herefordshire, England, June 14, 1827, and with
her parents gathered with the Saints at Nauvoo
in 1844. She was baptized into the Church at ten
years of age, and was married to John Preece at
Nauvoo in 1845. She came to Utah with her hus-
band in 1848, and from that time until her death
was a resident of the Fourth Ward.
	Few women have been more active than was
Sister Preece in carrying on the work God gives
women to do, and her Christian life, filled with
sacrifices and benefactions to the sick and needy,
may well serve as a model for those who seek to
gain at the end of earth’s 1abors the Master’s ap-
proving word, "Well done thou good and faith-
ful servant, enter thou into the joys of thy Lord.”
	For many years Sister Preece as president,
directed the labors of this Relief Society, and
through her untiring energy and gentle charity
much good was done for humanity.
	We are comforted for her loss in the conscious-
ness that for over half a century she lived in the
full faith of the Gospel, and that she took her de-
parture in the certain hope of a glorious resur-
rection.
					SARAH ARTHUR,
					MARY A. WEILER,
							Committee.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To our beloved Sister SageTreharne Jones, who
departed this life March 30, after suffering for
some time at intervals with severe spells of sick-
ness.
	Sister Jones was born at Ridively, Carmar-
thenshire, South Wales, on the 27th day of Nov-
ember, 1832, and became a member of this
Church in 1848, and in company with her parents,
William and Ann Treharne, emigrated to Utah in
1849, crossing the ocean in Captain Dan Jones’
company. She remained in Council  Bluffs with
her parents about three years and arrived in Salt
Lake City in 1852 In that same year she was
married to Thomas Jones and for a few months
resided in Spanish Fork  In the spring of 1853
she moved to Cedar City. In the year 1862 Sis-
ter Jones was left a widow with five sons and one
daughter. 
	Her only daughter and one son have died with-
in the last two years. They with their father will
gladly welcome home their loved one who has en-
dured faithfully to the end.
	Sister Jones has been connected with the Re-
lief Society ever since its first organization. For
a period of twenty-two years she has successively
filled the honorable position of Counselor, Presi-
dent and at her demise was first Counselor to our
Stake President, Sister Mary Ann Lunt. Sister
Jones though quite sick at the time, attended our
last Society Conference on the 12th of February,
and bore a powerful testimony to the truth of this
work.
	WHEREAS, We feel that by her death we have
been deprived of a true and sincere friend and
wise Counselor.
	RESOLVED, That we desire to emulate her
noble example, and that we herewith express our
deep sympathy for her children and grandchild-
ren.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of our Society, and one
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
					MARY A. DOVER,
					MARY J. CORBETT
					JANE P. MACKELPRANG
							Committee
	Cedar City, April 9th.


[Column 1]
