[Column 2]
fices and monuments were destroyed. For
nearly three thousand years the sand has
accumulated within it, burying some of the
largest monuments, and in some instances
hiding almost entire temples. ‘‘The ob-
server who first approaches Thebes sees
only a confused mass of vast obelisks,
portals and columns, towering above palm
trees; but a closer and longer inspection
awakens sensations of awe and astonish-
ment.” Among its temples the most re-
markable are those of the Palace—Temple
of Karnak; the Temple of Luxor; the
Memnonium; the tomb of Osymandias; and
the mountain, tombs or Catacombs of
Thebes—these latter are sometimes called
the Necropolis.—Karnak surpasses in its
grandeur all the others. It stands at the
southeastern extremity of the city, and its
name is derived from the village which has
sprung up on a portion of its site. The
French engineers—when Napoleon invaded
Egypt—were one hour and a half in riding
around it. "The temple itself is 1,200
feet in length, and its breadth is 420 feet.
It is approached by a long avenue of
enormous Sphynx—the largest in exist-
ence—and by a succession of gates and
colossal statues, constructed of different
stones and marbles. Two of the sculptured
obelisks are sixty-nine feet, and another is
ninety-one feet high. The portion that
was the chief hall, 159 feet in breadth and
318 feet long, has for the support of its
roof 134 grand columns, each seventy feet
high and eleven in diameter. All the
sculptured work has been colored and still
retains its brightness. The avenue of
Sphynx has now but fifty of its six hun-
dred still standing.’’
 	''The Temple of Luxor, especially when
viewed from the river which flowed through
the city, is a lovely sight. It stands in a
plain covered with palm trees and with
mountains stretching behind it. Beside
its portico stood two obelisks, each nearly
80 feet high and 32 feet in circumference,
composed of a single block  of beautiful
rose-colored, polished granite from the
quarries of Syene.” One of these obelisks
is now in Paris, France. It was taken
there in 1833 A. D., and erected in the
Place de la Concorde. ‘‘There were two
colossal seated statues, partially concealed
by the rising sand, each carved from a
single block of black granite. The propy-
lon, which is 200 feet high, contains stone
enough to build a cathedral. Inside it has
200 columns, varying in dimensions, most
of which are entire. All its apartments
are covered with sculptured work, executed
with extreme care and delicacy, this being
done as minute in parts as if it was the
work of a seal engraver. Here it is sup-
posed that Homer studied the sculptured
battle and triumphs to gain inspiration for
his most heroic strains.’’ The tomb of
Osymandias was, as the historian Diodor-
us informs us, at once a palace, a library
and a tomb. It was a mile and a quarter in
circumference and was adorned with sculp-
ture of the greatest excellence and splendor.
This tomb was partially destroyed by the
