[Column 2]
every breath of its celestial origin it is a
mother’s love.
	Mother is our helper, adviser- listening
to tales of fancied wrongs and sorrows.
	Mother—’tis the first half formed word
that falls from the babbling tongue: The
first, the fondest and the most lasting tie in
which affection can bind the heart. A
mother’s love. Forever the same, un-
changeable.
	A pure and holy gift from heaven.
Mother’s love soothes with sympathy.
What a comfort it was to feel her sympathy
for my near sightedness. How patiently
and tenderly she lightened my misfortune,
anticipating every wish, attending to all
my needs, soothing every sorrow.
	She cradles us in her warm, faithful
breast and there is a healing influence in
her embrace.
	When at home or absent from her side I
know her thoughts were ever concerned in
my welfare, and also the welfare of my
children.
	Every day I appreciate more the bless-
ing of a fond and noble mother. She has 
been a mother not only to her own off-
spring and her husband’s children, but to 
her sisters and brothers children. Yes a 
mother in Israel! And we all love, re-
spect and reverence her.
	She has trodden the narrow path and
now reaches the landmark—her seventyfifth
birthday, and we feel that we cannot do
enough to show our love and appreciation
of her. She is unsurpassed on this earth-
	A mother’s love, how sweet the name,
		What is a mother's love?
	A noble, pure and tender flame,
		Enkindled from above.
			BATHSHEBA SMITH MERRILL.
	After the program had been rendered
there were short speeches congratulatory
and affectionate, one by Mrs. Julina L.
Smith was distinctively tender and brought
tears to the eyes of many of those who
heard it. Sister Julina is the niece of Sis-
ter Bathsheba and had spent many years
of her young life with her aunt, so that to
her she is a second mother.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke very
eloquently of her intimate association with
Sister Smith. Other speakers were Sister
Emily P. Young and Sister E. B.
Wells, Brother John R. Winder and
Patriarch John Smith, who touched upon
his early remembrances of the lady in
whose honor we had met together, which
were quite in keeping with the occasion.
Sister Smith responded (to the invitation of
Apostle John Henry Smith) in a graceful
and appropriate way, expressing her sincere
love to all who had in any way contributed
to her happines on this day—and referred
to the numerous circle of relatives and
friends who could not participate in the
affair, bore testimony of the divine mission
of Joseph Smith and her firm belief in all
he taught; alluded lovingly to her hus-
band’s patriarchal family and made many
suggestive remarks that will be remembered
by her young friends in years to come.
	The party joined in singing “Hard
times come again no more,” and Miss Pris-
cella Smith gave a very pleasing recitation
entitled “The Barber and the Stuffed
Owl.” Delicious refreshments were served
tastefully and bountifully by loving hands,
during which time social conversation was
indulged in, and soon after as daylight was
merging into twilight, the guests who

[Column 3]
lived at a distance began to say their
adieux. In the evening there was a liter-
ary and musical program with which to
wind up a very happy day.
	The EXPONENT adds congratulations
and good wishes to Sister Smith. Words
are inadequate to express the desire we
have for her future welfare and prosperity.
The beautiful work she performs in the 
Temple, and added to that the philan-
thropic and charitable labor in the Relief
Society are indeed appropriate for one who
has lived so long, and passed through so
many sanctifying experiences.


