[Column 2]
“Redeemer of Israel.” President Zina D.
H. Young made a few opening remarks,
regretted the small attendance, yet felt
many of the sisters who had come from a
distance were weary and needed rest, as
the General Conference opened the next
morning, therefore could scarcely expect
they could come out in the evening.
	President Susan Grant of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake, made a brief report
of the Society in that County and expressed
her great pleasure in the good work; com-
mended the officers and members in the
several branches in that locality, said they
were diligent and on hand to obey counsel;
rejoiced in the faith of the Gospel and the
work of the Society.
	Sister Annie D. Hardy, representative
from Mexico, spoke cheerfully and in an
interesting manner of the country, the mis-
sion undertaken by the people in that local-
ity, and the good feeling that prevailed;
referred to the Society in Pacheco of which
she was President, but said there were not
enough older sisters to have a meeting with-
out mixing with the young ladies; they had
planted out mulberry trees in Mexico and
hoped to be able to do something in sericul-
ture. Sister Hardy was very encouraging
in her remarks and manifested an excellent
spirit; spoke in terms of praise of the sisters,
and of the efforts being made by them to be
helpful and also faithful in the Gospel.
	President Adeline S. Barber, Relief Soci-
ety Cache Stake, felt to be spurred on to
make efforts in industrial as well as spirit-
ual work; reported 7,000 bushels of grain
there and stated that three more granaries
had recently been built in the Stake; she
thought that the sisters had a mission to
raise silk, spoke of sending from Logan
to Brigham City for mulberry leaves; in
that place (Logan) they had reeled their
silk and it brought a good price. Sister
Barber had a dream about the raising of silk
and it had come to pass; nine girls had been
taught to reel up there, they had made a
window curtain of silk for one of the win-
dows of the Logan Temple. A brother
who manufactures under clothing will buy
all the reeled silk the Society can spare.
Sister Barber told of the efforts made in a
small way by little donations and saving
Sunday eggs to help on sericulture, the
Lord had blest their efforts to start the silk
industry; they had made some silk stock-
ings, pillow lace and a shawl; these things
were exhibited to the sisters. Sister Bar-
ber convinced all present of her interest in
home manufacture and her energy in her
work in the Relief Society, temporal and
spiritual.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, Relief
Society, St. George Stake, felt sure they
had a mint in sericulture, realized it would
be a benefit to them in taking care of the
poor and providing work for those who
were able to do a little towards their own
support. To illustrate the perseverance of
the sisters, Sister Woodbury told us one
asked the Bishop for a piece of land; she
wanted it on a lease for fifty years, to build
a granary and she got it, and then built
the granary with the help of the Society.
Sister Woodbury also urged the sisters to
be faithful and work for their dead.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the first sermon President Brigham Young
preached here in the valley, and what he
said of the air being filled with the ele-
ments of silk, of his great faith in the en-
terprise as furnishing work for the idle and

[Column 3]
also its being remunerative; thought we
should bestir ourselves and try to get em-
ployment for our girls and boys instead of
letting them grow up in idleness; was glad
the sisters in Cache had made such efforts
to establish sericulture but realized that St.
George and the Southern part of the State
was best adapted to this important home
industry.
	Sister Zina Y. Card talked about home
industries; referred to her father’s words,
(President Brigham Young) when he said
the elements were full of silk, it was in the
air, and if we persevered in following his
teachings we could do much towards our
own maintenance. The speaker alluded
eloquently to what might be accomplished
in this direction not only in sericulture, but
in cultivating hops, starting vineyards of
this vine and also the grape vine; added
‘‘If we have done these things then we are
rich, and if we have not then we are to
blame, for not listening to counsel; father
had a large house built on the silk farm
where there were thousands of mulberry
trees;” described the silk farm, and told us
that her mother lived there for a time and
how she had become attached to the
silk worms, though shrinking from them
at first. Sister Card thought we as a peo-
ple had made too much of the things of
this world, and thought too much of the
business of the world, and of riches and
worshiping the things of the world instead
of seeking after spiritual things, thought it
was displeasing in the sight of the Lord.
The speaker urged the mothers to teach
their children that it was a disgrace to live
off their father after they were of age, they
should be self-supporting, learn a trade or
go out and take up land and be indepen-
dent. Thought the Relief Society should
have a house of their own to meet in, felt
positive we would and wanted it to come
before the aged sisters who were with us
now and who had borne so much, passed
away.
	Sister E. B. Wells read the total of the
statistical and financial report of the Relief
Society for the year 1896—and made some
explanations in reference to the growth and
progress of that magnificent organization
which reached around the world, and had
benefited so large a number temporally,
morally and spiritually. Reported concern-
ing the branches of the Society upon the
islands of the Sea, paid a glowing tribute to
the labors on the Sandwich Islands of the
late Sister Libbie Noall, and mentioned the
branches in European countries, and made
special reference to the organizations effect-
ed during the past year in Chicago and
Sacramento, and also in reference to the
Society being connected with the National
Council of women of the United States and
felt it was a great step in advance, did not
understand why any one should object to
the name National being added, especially
as the Society was both national and inter-
national before we took the name. Sister
Wells thought every young sister should
enroll her name with the Relief Society and
assist in the charitable work; also made
some telling remarks upon the silk indus-
try, thought it more desirable than a gold
mine, the work was much easier and not
dangerous; hoped we could all of us have
silk dresses and other necessary apparel of
the same material; spoke very strongly up-
on this industry, explained about the Com-
mission appointed by the Governor, and
the appropriation made by the Legislature


of 1896, and the bounty on cocoons, and
thought if we were earnest and energetic
in producing silk we might have other
help in the manufacturing, it would require
patience and perseverance, and we could
not expect too much at first. The speaker
made a strong appeal to the sisters to en-
deavor to encourage home literature as
well as other home products.
	Conference adjourned until next October.
Singing “O my Father” benediction by
Sister E. B. Wells.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


