TWENTY-FIVE YEARS.

	OUR readers and patrons will remember
perhaps that this issue of the EXPONENT
completes the twenty-fifth year of this
little periodical. One quarter of a century
since the paper was established and during
that time how much has transpired here
and elsewhere, and how many important
events and incidents have been recorded in
the volumes published since June 1, 1872,
the date of its establishment. Many of
those who were anxious to have a woman’s
paper here in Zion have passed away and
 are no longer known among us, another
generation has taken their places and yet
their counsel, their words live still in the
remembrance of those who knew
them personally. Had the people followed
the advice of President Brigham Young
through whose wise counsel this paper as
well as many other home enterprises were
started, this state and the people as a whole
would have been much more prosperous
and independent than they are at the present
time.
	President Young was very anxious the
women of Utah should have a paper of
their own in which to express their views
and opinions on all subjects relating to wo-
man’s progression, higher education and
advancement along all lines that would
tend to correct evil, to uplift the fallen, to
support the best methods of dealing with all
practical questions pertaining to humanity.
   We do not care to repeat what we have
often said before that there are many things
the women of Utah have done, which
never would have been so successfully ac-
complished had it not been for the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT as a reference and to
collect material from. We need this paper
now to further home interests particularly
and especially the silk industry, which lan-
guishes for the lack of enterprise and reliable
information in regard to what is being done
from time to time. Without going into de-
tails it seems to the writer that for the wo-
men of this state not to maintain, a wo-
man’s paper, would be not only a hind-
rance to progress but a positive calamity.
Brigham Young strongly urged upon the
women of Utah to take this paper, to read it
and to keep it, as it would be a record of
woman’s work and of their history; and
we are most anxious that all who feel an
interest in the growth of sentiment in favor
of home protection, home interests and in-
dustries should help by their subscriptions,
patronage and influence to maintain a paper,


that has done and is doing so much to help
women in organization and in everything
tending to the higher elements of life,
moral, spiritual, industrial and educational.


