International Council of Women Quinquennial Meeting
By Clarissa S. Williams
The sixth quinquennial convention of the International Council of Women, held in Washington, D. C., May 4-14, was probably the most extensive international conference ever held. It was stated repeatedly, by those who are familiar with international gatherings, that this meeting eclipsed them all in scope and representation—that even the Versailles Conference following the World War, did not have representatives from so many nations. Organized in Washington in 1888, under the sponsorship of leading American suffrage workers, Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, and others, the International Council has met in many lands. Five years after the initial meeting, there was a conference at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893, when the women present, representing many nationalities, determined to return to their various countries, organize national councils, and make the International Council a real significant and representative International group. Since that time, meetings have been held as follows: England, 1899; Germany, 1904; Canada, 1909; Italy, 1914; Norway, 1920; United States, 1925. At the Washington meeting, there were assembled women from Europe, Asia, Africa, North and South America, and from the islands of the sea—from forty-two nations, including countries older than history and republics newly born. Of the European nations, only Russia, Spain, and Albania were missing. There were delegates from Arctic Iceland and far-away China, from Roumania, Esthonia, Latvia, and Czecho-Slovakia, representing their people for the first time at an international table; from South Africa, New Zealand and Australia, those from the British colony of Tasmania having been on the way to Washington five weeks; from five of the Latin-American nations; from Can-

ada and the United States. It was reported by the secretary that the women of Turkey are trying hard to lay the foundations of a National Council of Women, that the women of India have already formed a connection with the Council, and in China the women are working for the formation of a National Council and its federation with the I. C. W. There were in all two hundred fifty delegates, including the International officers, and convenors of standing committees. Each National Council was entitled to ten delegates and ten alternates. Norway, Great Britain, Canada and the United States were the only countries, however, sending the full quota. This brilliant assemblage of women represented a real world power, and their intelligent discussion of international problems was most illuminating. The subject matter was comprehensive and varied. When the International Council was first organized, chief among the subjects discussed was woman suffrage, which with education and curative measures for correcting existing evils, formed the program. At the present meeting, the vital topics were peace and arbitration and international understanding, together with a consideration of preventive welfare work, including education and social legislation. Among those in attendance were many notable and interesting, as well as picturesque, characters. There were doctors, lawyers, linguists, lecturers and preachers, legislators, social workers, engineers and authors—women who have gained high rank in their respective countries in the field of education and human welfare work. The Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, world leader of women and the president of the International Council, who presided at all of the meetings of the Council, is famous for her work in establishing health and recreation centers in Ireland. During her husband's term as viceroy of Ireland, she organized the Irish Woman's Public Health Crusade, and within seven years the mortality rate from tuberculosis in that land had been decreased by more than two thousand deaths per year. Lady Aberdeen has been president for several different quinquennial periods. Her command of languages and her long experience in high social circles have rendered her able to serve her enormous and varied constituencies with exceptional skill. Fru Anna Backer of Norway, who ranks immediately after Lady Aberdeen, is one of the leaders of thought in Norway. In 1920 she received from the Norwegian king a handsome gold medal which is bestowed occasionally for exceptionally valuable service in the field of social welfare. Fru Backer headed the very efficient secretariat. Madam Avril de Sainte-Croix is probably the best known and most respected social worker in France. She is famous for her
work in promoting a single standard of morals for her nation, and has worked steadily for years for the maintenance of the highest standards of the family. She is well known in France for the organization she has created, and for her participation in the elaboration of new laws which have produced important improvements in the lives of women and children. For her exceptional work in the field of welfare and hygiene, the French government presented her with the great golden medal of Public Assistance and Hygiene for exceptional service. Madam Sainte-Croix is one of the vice-presidents of the International Council, and is president of the National Council of France. Dr. Gertrude Baumer of Germany is a writer and preacher in Berlin. She is known principally, however, for the struggle she made in the Reichstag, of which she is a member, to get through welfare legislation for women workers. Dr. Ogilvie Gordon of Scotland, Doctor of Jurisprudence and Doctor of Philosophy, is an author, linguist and lecturer, actively interested in child welfare. She is a vice-president of the International Council. Froken Henni Forchammer who is a brilliant linguist and author, and one of the vice-presidents of the International Council, represented the Danish government at the League of Nations conference at Geneva. Countess Apponyi is president of the National Council of Hungary. She is also leader of the anti-alcoholic movement and founder of the first sanitarium for alcoholics in her country. Mrs. George Cadbury, of England, a modest and charming Quaker, is convenor of the committee on peace and arbitration. She is chairman of the hospital for crippled children founded by her wealthy husband, and is actively interested in a number of women's and children's groups. She has been decorated with the order of the British Empire and also by the Belgian and Servian governments for her service in the interest of refugees during the late war. Dr. Alice Solomon has founded a number of social service schools in Germany, and is a leader of thought along modern philanthropy. Senora Labarca is professor of philosophy in the national university of Chile and author of a number of books, including a text book on elementary philosophy used by the secondary schools in her country. Mrs. Teressa Isassi, president of the National Council of Mexico, is one of the most significant literary women of that country. She is founder and director of the Society for the Protection of Childhood, and supports a home for homeless children by her work. Mme. Krstitch, of Belgrade, is an architect and director of the Serbian Department of Engineering and Construction. Josephine Szebeko is a member of the Polish senate. It would be impossible to mention all of the noted American

women in attendance at the conference. Mrs. Philip N. Moore, president of the National Council of Women of the United States, hostess of the sixth Quinquennial, and who was more responsible than anyone else for the success of the convention, must be mentioned first. Mrs. Moore is well known as a leader of women and is noted for her ability as a public speaker and as a presiding officer. Mrs. Moore presided at the ceremonial meeting, as well as at a number of other sessions, and was in full charge of all evening programs. Next to Mrs. Moore in importance was Mrs. Nathaniel E. Harris, a vice-president of the National Council, and general chairman of the quinquennial committee. It was under her immediate direction that the plans for the convention were carried out. Mrs. Glen Swiggett, of Washington, D. C., general chairman of the Washington committee, should receive special mention, and also Mrs. David A. Campbell, chairman of the music department of the National Council, who was in charge of the American music evening. Mrs. Percy V. Pennybacker was chairman of the local program committee, and presided at the Pan-American evening. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, a world-known character, gave one of the principal addresses of the whole convention. Other American women to be mentioned, are Mrs. Flo Jamison Miller, Prof. Marian Whitney, Mrs. Frances Burns, Dr. Valeria Parker, Mrs. Maud Wood Park, Miss Lucy Anthony, Mrs. Anna Garlin Spencer, Miss Grace Abbott, and Miss Mary Anderson. The meetings of the convention were held in the commodious new Washington auditorium, which was well supplied with amplifiers in order that the vast audience might hear all of the proceedings. At the huge table, which ran the full length of the stage, were seated the International officers, who formed an imposing array of stately, dignified and charming women. Lady Aberdeen who towered in stature above them all, sat in the center, with Fru Backer, corresponding secretary, immediately on her right, and the Misses Zimmern and Van Eeghen, recording secretaries, on her left. At the right of Fru Backer sat Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, first vice-president, Mme. Sainte-Croix, second vice-president, and Mrs. W. E. Sanford, treasurer. Froken Henni Forchammer, third vice-president, and Mrs. Philip N. Moore, sixth vice-president, were seated next to the secretariat at the right end of the table. Convenors and vice-convenors of committees were given seats on the stage, immediately behind the officers. The delegates were seated in the front of the stage, immediately behind the Press, their places being indicated by the national emblems of their respective countries, which gave a patri-
otic air to the whole proceeding. Next to the delegates were patrons, alternates, special guests, and then came the public. Fifty local young women acted as pages. They gave very efficient service, and were most effective and charming in their white gowns with broad sashes of red, white, and blue. The official languages of the International Council are English, French and German, and out of respect to the Latin-American delegates, whose national councils have newly become federated, Spanish was added whenever necessary. All the proceedings were translated from one language to the others by able and brilliant linguists, who were a constant surprise and marvel to the American women. When a resolution was proposed or a report given in one language, it was translated into the other two official languages before a vote was taken. The European women, generally, spoke more than one language—French being almost universally understood, with English as a close second. In the halls and lobbies many tongues were heard, and it was estimated by one observer that there had not been such a medley of sounds since the Tower of Babel was under construction. Interpreters were plentiful, however, and through them everybody was able to understand everybody else. The convention consisted of general sessions for the public which were held each evening; daily meetings of the Council proper, officers' meetings, and numerous committee meetings. The general sessions were open to the public while the Council meetings, where the regular business was transacted, were limited. Only the general officers, the convenors of standing committees, and the official delegates (ten from each National Council) were permitted to take part in the discussion, and to vote. The general sessions consisted of the following: a ceremonial meeting when an address of welcome was given by Herbert Hoover, and greetings by representatives of the National Council of Women of the United States in the three official languages, with responses from Lady Aberdeen and other honored guests; an evening of American music, showing the evolution of music in this country; an evening when the presidents of the various National Councils or their representatives made brief reports regarding their own countries and the work of their councils; a pan-American evening; a pageant—Peace and War; Mother's Day ceremony at the tomb of the unknown soldier; an evening devoted to a discussion of recent developments in citizenship; and another in which the subject, "Social Ideals in International Life" was discussed by a number of celebrated speakers. The last evening was devoted to a farewell banquet, which was the climax of everything, both intellectual and social. It was held in

the ball room of the new Mayflower Hotel, which is said to be the finest hotel in the world. Probably the most interesting of the general sessions was the evening meeting devoted to the reports of the work of the various National Councils. It was indeed inspiring to hear of the efforts being put forth by women to make the world better and safer for humanity. New Zealand reported among other things the lowest death rate among children in all the world; Australia, the great results from their maternity program, which with the assistance of trained social workers and public health nurses, has become very effective. Denmark reported improvement in police work since the introduction of police women. Sweden reported five women in parliament; and Holland, eight women in parliament. In Holland equal pay for equal work is the rule in many professions. Hungary has received great benefit from the recent tuberculosis campaign. In Norway there is a law which provides for at least three women jurors in all cases of sex offense where girls are involved. Among other things, Norway reported that their country provides that illegitimate children shall be entitled to their fathers' names. In Chile the women are training themselves and are being trained for suffrage. The National Council of this country has centered its activities at present on the founding of dormitories for college girls. Through the efforts of the women the wages and salaries of married women are now their own; whereas, they formerly belonged to their husbands and fathers. In Denmark the minister of education is a woman, and women are making their way into university faculties and are gaining better positions generally in the schools, including principalships. In Sweden unmarried mothers are required to go to the municipal authorities, and the courts arrange for the financial support of their children. In South Africa, as far as support for children is concerned, there is no distinction between legitimate and illegitimate children. Fathers must support illegitimate children up to the age of sixteen. An interesting and rather dramatic event occurring at this meeting was the presentation to the Council of a silk banner, by Fru Backer of Norway, international secretary, and its acceptance by the president, Lady Aberdeen. The silk used in its manufacture was a gift by the affiliated councils, and of former premier Herriot of France, when he was mayor of Lyons, the great silk producing city. The embroidery was done in Norway. On the banner are embroidered the eastern and western hemispheres with a bright sun shedding its beams over the world. Below these figures the golden rule is embroidered in Latin. The I. C. had been without a banner since 1914, when the one in use
was lost at the outbreak of the war on its way from Rome to the home of Lady Aberdeen in Scotland. At the regular Council meetings there were reports of the officers, reports of standing committees, with recommendations and resolutions attached, and it was here that the election of officers took place. Lady Aberdeen presented no formal report as president, but gave a cordial opening address, mentioning some of the special features of the work of the executive committee during the five-year interim. She called attention to the position of the International Council of Women—its aims and purposes. She stated that the main object of the existence of the International Council is not to promote propaganda but to form a center around which all women's societies can gather, confer, and make the voice of organized womanhood heard regarding various subjects of world interest. The policy of the International Council is also the promotion of the international mind in all relations of life. The motto of the Council is the "Golden Rule" and its thirty-six million members are permitted to forward all that tends to the good of mankind by the magic power of love. Inspiration, new insight, and added impetus are results of the I. C. Lady Aberdeen spoke very feelingly of the officers and prominent workers who had passed away since the last Council meeting. Among these she mentioned our own beloved American leader, Dr. Kate Wallet Barrett, who passed away a few months before the International Council meeting. Dr. Barrett was the convenor of the standing committee on immigration and emigration, and was an ex-president of the National Council of the United States. Lady Aberdeen stated that she was one of the few survivors of those in this country who were connected with the early days of both the International Council of Women and the National Council, and that she had given able and devoted service. Only the day before her death she was arranging a tea party for the delegation at her interesting home at Alexandria. The vast audience, at Lady Aberdeen's request, stood in silent remembrance of the fellow-workers who had passed away. The report of the secretary, Fru Backer, was both comprehensive and interesting, covering sixteen printed pages. Among the interesting items reported were the extension of the Council, the inner growth, the meetings of the executive committee, and the relation of the work of the International Council to other world work, etc., etc. The treasurer's report gave in detail the finances of the International Council, including the receipts and disbursements since the last meeting. The reports of standing committees were most interesting and inspiring, and contained the results of surveys and summaries

of the work being done throughout the world in the interest of human welfare, and particularly, women and children. The following vital questions were included: peace and arbitration, child welfare, rights of women—equal rights and pay for women, social service, regulation of traffic in women and children, suppression of vice, etc., etc. In connection with their reports, the chairmen of standing committees presented recommendations and resolutions which were discussed and acted upon. Following are some of the items included in the resolutions: Education. The Education Committee favored an interchange of teachers and students between countries; continuation of schools for children from fourteen to eighteen; self-government in schools; the teaching of nature study and simple biological facts in all public elementary schools, and courses of science, including biology and the laws of health in secondary schools; the teaching of international ideals; the community use of school buildings; equal pay for equal work in the teaching profession; the scientific study and practice in full of domestic science and homemaking in all branches which concern the family. Equal Moral Standard. The Equal Moral Standard Committee proposed the establishment of a common plan of work for the protection of emigrants and for the campaign against traffic in women and children; that in those countries in which there is still state regulation of prostitution the National Councils still continue to work for the suppression of the regulation which by degrading a whole class of women perpetrates an injustice and is an outrage against womanhood; that the International Council of Women urge the institution in all countries of women police, with the same status and responsibilities as men in the same service; that the Council urge all women in countries not yet having ratified the convention of Geneva, 1921, for the protection of women and children, to use all their influence to obtain ratification; that the I. C. W. urge that measures be taken for the suppression of such newspaper advertisements as tend to incite immoral behavior. Trades and Professions. Under Trades and Professions the resolutions were adopted providing for: equal professional rights for women; equal pay for equal work; maternity provision after confinement; right of married women to work. Emigration. Under emigration were the following resolutions: that the National Councils be asked to urge their governments to appoint women attachees to their consulates and legations; in the event of any special department or commission being appointed under the League of Nations on Emigration and Immigration, that the I. C. shall urge the appointment of a woman member to represent women's international organizations; in countries where no bureaus already exist to give information to pro-
fessional women regarding emigration and immigration, that the National Council be urged to take steps to establish them; that the I. C. W. recognizes with gratitude the action of the National Council of Women of the United States in urging their government to admit the wives and minor children of men already living in the states, irrespective of quota. Suffrage. Under the subject of suffrage, the following resolution was adopted: that in order to get the best results from their voting power, women who are enfranchised should join political parties and should form groups within their own parties for the discussion of their special interests, and thus unite to influence their parties; further that these different party groups should get in touch with one another, so that when they agree upon any subject, they can ask unitedly to further their common interests. Child Welfare. That the I. C. W. formally re-indorse the Declaration of Geneva, made by the "Save the Children Fund International Union;" that the National Council be recommended to collaborate with the National Committee of the Union in their respective countries in preparing a Children's Charter suitable to the needs and conditions in each particular country; that the I. C. W. shall request all National Councils to take an active interest in the care and protection of abnormal children, and to report on the measures taken in this direction in the various countries; that the statistics concerning the death rate of legitimate compared with illegitimate children under one year be circulated and that the affiliated Councils be asked to investigate what remedial measures they recommend; that in all countries means should be provided by which preparation for and access to the universities and to all institutions of high learning shall be made possible for the especially gifted child of every class; that the I. C. W. recognizes that the only effective way of combating the evil of drug taking is for the states in which opium and coca leaves are grown to reduce the production to the medical and scientific needs of the world. Peace and Arbitration. There was much speculation among newspaper reporters and the public generally regarding the resolutions to be presented on the subject of the League of Nations and Peace and Arbitration, and regarding the stand to be taken by the American delegation on the subject. But early in the discussion, Mrs Philip N. Moore explained that due to the wide diversion of opinion in this country, and due to the fact that the United States has not entered the League of Nations and has not committed itself to a definite peace program, the National Council decided at its last annual meeting to take no part in the discussion and voting. She said further that nobody was entitled to speak for the National Council on these subjects, but that individuals might speak for themselves if they chose and were per-

mitted to do so. When the resolution on Disarmament was proposed, the German delegates refused to vote on the partial and gradual disarmament resolution, also Poland and Roumania. The International Council as a whole, however, went on record for gradual disarmament and for the inclusion of all countries in the League of Nations, but without the aid of American women. The resolution read: The I. C. W., while recognizing that general disarmament is the ideal to be aimed at, considers that it might be preceded by gradual simultaneous disarmament under effective control to be agreed upon by the respective governments and the League of Nations. They recognize that governments will not agree to disarm until they feel some sense of security. This Council believes that the way to establish peaceful relations among the nations would be through a policy that regards neighboring peoples as natural friends, and not as possible enemies. It is interesting to note that all nations represented at the conference, with the exception of the United States, Germany and Mexico, are members of the League of Nations. There were invitations from several countries for the next quinquennial meeting, but after due consideration it was decided to accept the invitation from Austria, which is centrally located, and of easy access to the many new Councils formed in central Europe. An attractive social program was arranged in connection with the conference, when genuine American hospitality was extended. Chief among the social features was the reception given at the White House by the president of the United States and his wife, in honor of the officers and delegates. The President and Mrs. Coolidge received the guests, who were formally presented to them, most cordially. The President was dignified and courteous and Mrs. Coolidge was most gracious and charming, greeting each guest with a radiant smile, as well as a hearty handshake. She was beautifully dressed in a modest gray gown with shoes to match, and formed a lovely picture against a gorgeous floral background. From the reception room, the guests were ushered into the state dining room, where from a beautifully decorated table, they were served refreshments by the ladies of the Cabinet. They were then invited to spend an hour on the promenade on the west terrace to get acquainted and view the gorgeous White House grounds and gardens. Other interesting events were the teas given by Mrs Herbert Hoover, wife of the Secretary of Commerce; Mrs. John J. Davis, wife of the Secretary of Labor; Mrs. John D. Henderson, the Baroness Balzan, wife of the Ambassador from Germany, and a score of other charming and interesting hostesses. Luncheons and dinners were given at the various embassies by the Ambassadors
and Ministers and their wives to the women from their respective countries. There were also excursions to the historic places in and about Washington, such as Arlington, Gettysburg and Mt. Vernon, where a wreath was placed on the tomb of Washington, in the name of the women of the world. An outstanding social feature was the breakfast given by the President of the National Council of the United States, Mrs. Philip N. Moore, to the state chairmen who had so valiantly assisted her in raising funds to cover the expense of the great meeting. And an outstanding feature of the breakfast was the report that Utah was the first state to raise its quota, and the detailed account by Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, chairman of the Utah State committee, as to how the quota was raised. At this breakfast Mrs, Moore and Mrs. Harris were each presented by the women of the U. S. Council, with a beautiful jeweled pin, in the form of the International insignia. The election of officers which occurred near the close of the convention was as follows: President, the Marchioness of Aberdeen and Temair, Scotland; first vice-president, Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, England; second vice-president, Mme. Avril de SainteCroix, France; third vice-president, Mrs. Philip N. Moore, United States; fourth vice-president, Fru Anna Backer, Norway; fifth vice-president, Froken Henni Forchammer, Denmark; sixth vicepresident, Dr. Alice Solomon, Germany; seventh vice-president, Princess Cantacuzene, Roumania; corresponding secretary, Miss L. A. Van Eeghen, Holland; recording secretaries, Miss A. Christitch, Jugo-Slavia and Madame Romniciano, Roumania; treasurer, Mrs. W. E. Sanford, Canada. Convenors and vice-convenors of standing committees were also elected, representing various other countries not represented among the officers. From the beginning, Utah has had representation at the meetings of the International Council of Women. The Utah representation at the Washington meeting was as follows: Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, official U. S. Delegate; Mrs. Ruth May Fox, auditor of the National Council of Women; Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, state chairman for the state of Utah; Mrs. E. O. Wattis, vicechairman for the state of Utah; Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, national patron; Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon; Miss Florence Kimball; Mrs. N. K. Forrester; Mrs. Eliza F. McFarland; Mrs. L. W. Lund; Mrs. S. L. Chipman; Miss Bae Williams; Miss Marion Cartwright; Mrs. M. F. Cowley, and daughter Carol.