	Y. L. QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

	Saturday, September 20, the young ladies'
conference was held in the Assembly Hall in
this city, commencing at 2 p.m, Mrs. Mary A.
Freeze presiding. Opened by singing, "Joy to
the world." Prayer by Mrs. H. T. King. Sing-
ing, "We're not ashamed to own our Lord."
Minutes and reports were read and approved,
after which Prest. Freeze presented the resigna-
tion of her Counselor, Louie B. Felt. Said it
had taken her so by surprise she could not
choose a counselor until the Spirit of the Lord
dictated her in choosing one. Made some very
good remarks in regard to the duties of the
members, and gave much sound advice, es-
pecially with reference to the sisters visiting the
emigrant Saints after they arrive in Zion.
	Mrs. King addressed the meeting, her subject
was politeness and refinement of manner, love
for each other and integrity to the principles
of the Gospel.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp spoke of the best deport-
ment and example being most necessary in our
own homes; that if one were ill-natured the
Spirit of the Lord would not abide in the heart.
Thought fault finding ought to be wholly dis-
continued, and added, "Tearing down others
would never build us up."
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards made some interesting
remark upon the performance of duties, and
referred to the young mothers who had the
courage to come to meeting and bring their
babies with them. Spoke of her timidity in
standing up to speak in public.
	Miss Nellie Colebrook spoke upon humility
and the foolishness of pride, the value of time,
the cultivation of talents and the reading of
good books.
	Dr. Ellis Shipp spoke upon the blessing of at-
tending these meetings, and said, wealth and
power are great, but love is greater; love is God
like, "and a mild answer turneth away wrath.'
	Prest. Freeze made some very interesting re-
marks upon testimony, and said she had found
those who were willing to accept celestial mar-
riage were the young girls who were faithful in
attending these meetings; "The checked the
stream or stood in the way of the influence of
infidelity, which seemed to be rising and in-
creasing." Advised the officers to hold annual
meetings and invite visitors; gave other good ad-
vice. Mrs. Watmough introduced a book en-
titled "For Girls," suitable for young women,
and gave good advice.
	Conference adjourned for three months.  Choir
sang Doxology. Prayer by Dr. Maggie B.
Shipp.
				______

