USEFULNESS VERSUS HAPPINESS.

	Realizing the great inportance of thorough
knowledge on a subject wherein thousands of
human lives are involved, too much cannot be
said concerning the qualification of women to
fill the important station of nurses, and the
still more responsible position of midwives.
No one can gainsay the adaptability by nature
of woman-to attend to her own sex. Then
let her qualify herself by proper education to
become that skillful and sympathizing attend-
ant.
	What a blessed boon to humanity that ig-
norance and superstition are being superceded


by enlightenment and knowledge. That suffer-
ing women shall no longer be, unavoidably,
subjected to the ignorant and unskillful manip-
ulations of illiterate and unskillful persons.
	In perusing the history of medicine from
the time of Hippocrates till the present we
can note the gradual, but sure progress made
by the branch of obstetrics which was for-
mally about the lower round in the ladder, this
practice being almost entirely in the hands of
uneducated women; but it has gradually ascend-
ed the scale of importance until at the pres-
ent time it is considered a science and art
greater than which there is none other, it
now being among the higher accomplishments
of many of our most brilliant stars in the gal-
axy of surgery and medicine.
	How often do physicians have occasion to ac-
knowledge the benefits bestowed upon their
patients by the skilful attention of trained
nurses? and vice versa, how often are prec-
ious lives sacrificed by ignorant and inexperi-
enced nurses assuming such weighty responsi-
bilities?
	Where are all of our ambitious women? ambi-
tious for usefulness I mean—you who have
within your souls an innate longing for a high-
er better and nobler life, who desire some other
hope, some other object and ambition than liv-
ing for self alone. Arouse yourselves from
the daily routine of eating, drinking, sleeping,
dressing, visiting, reading, attending balls or
theatres etc., by a little exertion endeavor to
crowd these occupations a little closer to-
gether and make room for something
grander and far more enjoyable for what can
in this life give to the honest a more delightful
sensation than the consciousness of doing
good to a fellow creature—of soothing the
throbbing head, of alleviating the pains and
aches of mortal bodies.
	Indeed how frequently can acute mental
anguish be allayed by the touch of a gentle
hand, and the sound of a voice solicitous and
kind, by assuring a sufferer there is at least
one on earth and one in heaven who is interest-
ed in her welfare.
	Come my sisters engage in this pursuit, or
in that which will elevate your existence to
lives of worth and usefulness.
	To those who have an inherent suitable-
ness to the study and practice of obstetrics
there is certainly no avocation more worthy of
their highest aspirations.
