EDITOR EXPONENT:
    I feel to take up my pen in behalf of my
Father's work upon the earth. I feel that per-
secutions are beginning towards the Saints in
order to more fully unite them. I can see the
prophecies spoken of through God's prophets
being fulfilled, and though we live far from
Utah, we in this country have perhaps as much
to contend with, with the outside world, as the
people do in Utah. There are but few Latter-
day Saints here compared with the Gentiles,
who are exerting all power possible to perse-
cute and drive from their homes the people of
God; their threats are great, but I know they
can do no more than our Heavenly Father will
allow them to do.
    In the trials I am called upon to pass through
from time to time it is an exceeding great joy
to have the privilege of reading the EXPON-
ENT, which after taking for a while I cannot
do without. I feel comfort in trials to read the
words of my sisters who have likewise these
troubles to share. Though persecutions may
rage against this people, and we may be driven
hither and thither, I know by bearing all with
patience a reward awaits the just in heaven.
    Often, as I sit in reverie alone, my mind is
brought suddenly upon the commandments of
God, wherein if obeyed, lies a full exaltation
for all who will obey them; yet how few there
are who do obey every commandment given.
Therefore, I fully realize that persecutions are
needed to unite the Saints, that they may lay
by their follies and work the works of right-
eousness.
	I was struck with sorrow in reading an ac-
count of the two Elders who were martyred in
Tennessee, and have wondered how many
would be taken away in like manner. But
how thankful we should be to God that we
have been the recipients of His holy Gospel,
instead of the persecuters of His divine work.
    There are but a few of us in this settlement


far away in Arizona, but through obedience to
our Heavenly Father we hope to be able to en-
dure all trials that we may be called upon to
take part in.
	We have exemplary women as presidents of
the different associations, and I believe their
counsel and instructions are heeded.  We are
trying to live our religion and serve God.  Fi-
nancially we are doing pretty well, considering
the circumstances of the people.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor at our
homes; it is read with pleasure always.  With
a desire to serve the Almighty in word and in
deed, I remain a helper in His work, and desire
His most holy blessings on every true Latter-
day Saint.					S. D. G.
	Omer, Arizona, August 24, 1884.


