HOME AFFAIRS
	We regret not b[-]ing able to continue the pen
sketches of Presendia L. Kimball and Patty Ses-
sions in this number on account of space.
	"Why We Practic[-] Plural Marriage" is the
telling title of a book by Helen Mar Whitney.
It contains many plain facts bearing upon the
subject as well as personal incidents and expe-
riences: and cannot fail to do good and will re-
move some prejudice.  We recommend it as being
well worth the price 25 ets., and believe it willnot
only give a correct idea of the principle of plu-
ral marriage to the stranger, but will also be a
good book to put into the hands of our young
people.  It is very well written and the typo-
graphical work is in the usual plain clear and
neat style of the Juvenile Instructer Office.
The bo[-]k can be purchased there, or at this
office, or at Mrs. Whitney's own house on the
north side of the Tithing Office Block facing
City Creek.
	Our readers will observe that this issue con-
tains two notices of classes in ob[-]tetrics, to
commence in this city shortly after conference.
It is to be hoped that those living in the country
towns and places will take advantage of these
excellent opportunities now afforded them of ob-
taining a knowledge of midwifery, that there
may be no lack whatever of skilled help in all
the places where there is need of such help.
	It is  painful fact that there is not competent
help of this kind in many localities where is is
needed.  Young women should enter this pro-
fession, and study with a view to do good to
their own sex, and thus benefit mankind.  It is
one of the most honorable professions in the
world, and one in which the greatest good can be
done. There can be nothing more desirable
to the human heart than to relieve suffering.
Dr. Pratt and Dr. Shipp have each of them
taken great pains to make themselves proficient
in medicine and surgery, have been diligent
and persevering notwithstanding adverse cir-
cumstances and difficulties to contend with have
been determined to succeed, and have accom-
plished a good work in this direction.
	These ladies are both graduates of the
Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia, and
are fully qualified to teach as well as practice.
They  had excellent success in teaching
heretofore, are very thorough in their work and
simplify to the understanding.
	A new book of nearly 600 pages and hand-
somely bound, recently published by the
Deseret News Company is entitled "Biography
Autobiography and Family Record of Lorenzo
Snow."  This book is from the gifted pen of
Eliza R. S. Smith, sister of the Apostle whose
record she has so ably written.  The book con-
tains steel engravings of Eliza and Lorenzo, the
author and the Apostle, also several of his dis-
courses and letters, and some of the b[--]t of Sis-
ter Eliza's poems. On[-] never before published
is an address to her brother and family on the
occasion of a grand reunion and anniversary
celebration, on the 7th, 8th and 9th of May last.
To make a complete notice of this book would
require more time to read it than we have yet
given to it, but hastily glancing over it, it seems
the most elaborate and perfect book of the kind
we have ever seen, and must be a great satisfac-
tion to the family.  The author says the book
"has been written as a tribute of sisterly affec-
tion, and as a token of sincere respect to his
family," and certainly it is a worthy and beau-
tiful tribute.


