PRIMARY FAIR AND CONFERENCE.

 Upon entering the building where the fair
was held in Bountiful, and viewing the various
articles, useful and beautiful, made by the child-
ren of Davis County, from four to fifteen years
of age, a feeling of delighted admiration was ex-
perienced. The next thought was to wonder
how the enemies of good, works can bring their
lips and their pens to say that the children
of the Latter-day Saints are wanting in intelli-
gence, and that, they are not instructed in those
thing which will tend to develop in their na-
tures manliness and virtue, womanliness and
parity. If “idleness is the parent of vic,” in-
dustry must be its opposite. And how indus-
trious the little folks in Davis County most have,
been to have accomplished all this!
Besides a number of finished quilts, some of
them really handsome, and all good, there was a
great variety of patch-work, neatly done, mostly
by very little girls. There were infant aprons
and underclothes, made by girls very young,and
the hand sewing upon them so neat and strong,
that it seemed wonderful. Stockings, mittens,
wristlets, card cases, pin cushions, iron holders,
lace work of different kinds, shell work, carpets
and rugs, mottoes, artificial flowers, ornamental
grasses, doll dresses, drawings and colored
pictures, maps of Utah and other portions of
America, bread, butter, fruits vegetables, screen
doors, plow, upholetered sofa, forceps cut from a
single piece of wood, adobies, mats, and other
varieties of work, all done by little boys and
girls, in a style that would do credit, in many
cases, to older people.
	The two meetings held on Saturday, Septem-
ber 20th, beginning at ten a.m. and at two p.m.,
were exceedingly interesting. The programmes
were short, varied and in all respects excellent,
showing the unrivaled abilities of  the children
of Davis County and those who teach them.
Prominent among the latter are Sisters Rogers,
Hess, Dustin and Clark, and Misses Anna Clark
and Kate Chase.
	Sister Ann Dustin, President of the East
Bountiful branch of the Primary Association, is
the mother of Brother B. H. Roberts. Several
of the representative brethren of the county did
the children the honor to visit their fair and at-
tend their meeting, and to encourage them with
wise counsel and appropriate instructions More
praise is due to those brethren because of the
busy harvest time of the year in which the con-
ference was held. There was talk among the
presiding sisters of changing the time another
season.
	The only Bishop present was Brother Cheney
of Centerville. He said, in an address to the
congregation in the afternoon that he was there
because he felt that the little ones would need
looking after, that it would ba quite a labor, and
he might assist in it.
	This example might be followed by many of
our leading brethren to their own credit, and to
the good of their own families.
	Ten branches of the Primaries were repre-
sented in the fair and in the conference, viz.,
North and South Centerville, North and South
Farmington, North and South Kaysville, South
Weber, and East, West and South Bountiful.
	Brother and Sister Rampton of Bountiful,
manifested goodness of heart and kind  hospital-
ity by entertaining a number of visitors, making
them glad with good things to eat, and furnish-
ing conveyances to and from the station at
Woods Cross.
	The good order and good feeling which pre-
vailed everywhere, tended to awaken thoughts
of a most pleasing nature, while beholding such
unmistakable evidence of the progress of the
youth of Zion, and the lips are led by the heart
to say, “Our boys and glris, God Bless them!"
	L. GREENE RICHARDS,
	S.K. GREENE,
	M.W. WILCOX.
	Visitors from Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
TO THE GIRLS
	My dear sisters, I take a great pleasure in
writing a few lines to you by the dictation of
the Spirit of God.  I have thought for some
time that I would like to write a few lines to
the girls, and I hope that I will write  that which will
sink deep into the hearts of the young, for I
feel that it is a very important subject to talk
upon in our meetings, and that is, Pride and
Dress and following after the style of the out-
side world, although you may think that there
[Column 2]
has been enough said on that subject.  I some-
times think that I will never say any more
about it, but it seems when I am dictated to
talk about it that it is right that we should
teach the young these things, that they may
prepare themselves for greater things, for He
has called us from Babylon that we may not
partake of her sins and share not in her
plagues; but I think, when I look around and
see the way the daughters of Zion pattern after
the world, that we are not much better, and I
know that it is grievous, in the sight of God
the way His daughters dress and spend their
time in things that are leading their minds
from that which will be of more use to them
in days to come.  I think our time is too pre-
cious to waste on these things; the Lord has
blessed us with our time to imporve every op-
portunity that we have in learning and doing
all the good we can; in learning to dress plain
and neat.  We can have nice dresses if we can
afford them without going beyond our means,
but we must use wisdom in making them neat
and plain.
	It tells us in the 3rd chapter of Isaiah that
our earrings and our bracelets and our differ-
ent suits of dresses will be taken away from us
in the last days.  Moreover the Lord saith be-
cause the daughters of Zion are haughty and
walk with stiff necks and vaunting eyes, walk-
ing and mincing as they go, the Lord says that
He will smite with a scab the crowns of the
heads of the daughters of Zion, and these will
surely come upon us if we do not take a differ-
ent course.  There are some of our older sis-
ters who are placed to teach us that do not set
very good examples before the young.  I think
we as presidents and counselors should set pat-
terns before the young that we would not be
ashamed of, and that we could talk to them on
things that we are not guilty of ourselves, and
then it will do more good.
	You must excuse me for taking this privi-
lege of writing to the EXPONENT for the first
time, wishing you success in your interesting
and valuable paper.
		H. M. K.
RELIEF SOCIETY FAIR AT COAL
	VILLE
On the 7th of August and the three follow-
ing days, a ladies fair was held in the Relief
Society's store, Caolville. under the manage-
ment of the Relief, Young Ladies and Pri-
mary Associations of Summit Stake.  The
proceeds thereof to be used for the purpose of
purchasing glass for the new stake meeting
house now in course of erection at Coalville.
	The opening ceremonies were conducted by
Prest. W. W. Cluff, who in a short and appro-
priate speech stated the objects of the fair, and
complimented the sisters upon the display of
articles before them, which, he said, evinced
great taste, skill and ability on the part of the
donors.
	The management of the fair was under the
immediate direction of the Stake Presidency
of the three associations, the tact and ability
with which it was conducted was shown in the
fact that at the close of the fair not a single
article remained unsold.
	At the inception o[-] the project it was thought
that if the sum of five hundred dollars could
be realized the originators would be satisfied;
the interest and zeal that was shown by all the
ladies interested in the project is forcibly shown
when the net proceeds exceed the contemplat-
ed amount of seven hundred dollars, the sum
actually realized being over twelve hundred
dollars.
	Great credit is due all the associations of
the Stake for the liberality of their contribu-
tions and for the interest manifested to make
the affair a success.  Many articles of great


merit were contributed, in fact too numerous
to draw special attention to. The array of
hand made bed quilts was simply immense;
consisting of every kind, style and pattern,
many of which must have taken weeks of pa-
tient application to make. The various kinds
of needle, crochet and knitting work; fancy
cushions, wax flowers and fruits, hearth rugs,
tidies, infant's dresses, and other useful articles
were well and creditably represented, and the
admiration which many of the articles elicited
cannot be otherwise than pleasing to those
whose interest and sympathies in and for the
fair and its object led them to liberally donate.
	Every ward in the Stake contributed more
or less to make the undertaking a success.
	A restaurant was opened in connection with
the fair which was liberally patronized, and
satisfaction given with the excellent manner in
which the cuisine department was conducted.
	The Coalville brass band rendered excellent
service in discoursing music at intervals
throughout the fair.
	At our Stake quarterly conference held on
the Sunday followering the fair, the efforts of
the sisters and the success that attended their
labors, were spoken commendably of, and a
vote of thanks tendered, them by the confer-
ence.
	On Friday evening a grand ball was held in
the County Court House under the manage-
ment of the sisters:  which was well attended
and a most enjoyable time was had.
	The sisters are highly complimented by all
for the success that has attended their labors,
and the result in strikingly illustrative of what
can be accomplished by united effort. If the
brethren of the Stake will labor as earnestly
and zealouslly as the sisters have done, it will
not be long ere our beautiful Stake Tabernacle
will be completed, when we will then have a
commodious and suitable place to hold our
quarterly Stake conference in without a large
portion of the gatherings upon those occasions
being under the necessity of occupying "stand-
ing seats" outside the meeting house.		B.


_____________________________________________________________________________________

