MRS. E. B. WELLS:

	Dear sister: Your letter of May 23rd was re-
ceived, for which I thank you kindly. I felt
quite refreshed in reading it, and of the dis-
courses at the dedication of the Temple. It
opened many ideas in my mind, and gave ad-
ditional light thereon, which was food for seri-
ous meditation.		*		*		*
	My feelings of late have been troubled great-
ly meditating on the murder of Elders Gibbs
and Berry. I cannot tell you my feelings. The
first news I received was in the EXPONENT. I
could scarcely find patience to wait till the
News came for further information of the affair.
I could not rest night nor day. I do sympa-
thize with the bereaved, I know what it is to part
with those whom you could have laid down
your life to have saved theirs. May our
Heavenly Father comfort them and bless
them; I feel for them that their martyred ones
are safe; they fell like valiant soldiers while on
duty at their post; thank God they fell with the
harness on.

Zion can boast her sons
	Whose trust is in the Lord:
Her prophets and her martyred ones
	Slain for the Savior's word.

	Will not Talmage, Edmunds, Cook, Hoar,
Smith, and others of the opposite party, rejoice
now to see the seeds they have sown sprouting
and growing. Who among all in the outside
world have done more to fan the flames of
mobocracy than the Smith Brothers of Lamoni,
and their followers? Joseph Smith went to
Washington desiring the governorship of Utah.
When one of his apostles was discussing here
on the Book of Mormon, Rev. Coovert told
him pretty plain about it, too. I do really
think if he had never been born it would have
been better for him. "The way of the trans-
gressor is hard."
	The sad case of our martyred Elders makes
me think of an expression used in a prayer of
Apostle F. D. Richards' in the Hall of Science,
Sheffield, England, in 1851; he stated, "The
blood of the martyrs, with Joseph and Hyrum,
have watered the tree of life with their blood,
and all the machinations of earth and hell
combined, cannot prevent its onward progress."
I have thought many times of this, for I
heard him speak it; he is a good man, and if I
had had a son given me I was intending to call
him Franklin.
	Sister Wells, I am very lonely here; I am
here by myself. You don't know how I feel
when I get a few lines of comfort from a
brother or sister. I go from home very seldom
down to the city; the city is full of amusements
for those who have an appetite for husks and
cobs; they are ripening fast for what awaits
them. I stay at home and read the Deseret
News and EXPONENT, and meditate thereon
and view matters over and over again; by so
doing I have been blest; my mind opened to di-
vine light and understanding that I would not
give it away for all Pittsburgh is worth. For
some time back my time has been thus spent.
I have received a peace of mind and joy that
I cannot express. I want to live my religion,
and I am striving to do so acceptably before
my Heavenly Father. I feel that this work is
taking deeper root among the nations of the
earth; the words spoken by the Priesthood are
piercing far deeper than ever day by day. May
heaven speed it on, may that day soon dawn

[Column 2]
when the blood of martyrs will be required o
this nation.
	There is one thing I notice, the servants of
Jesus Christ have nearly circumnagivated the
globe, have gone forth at God's bidding and
borne the heavenly banner aloft of the Gospel
of the kingdom, and no one fell a martyr for
the truth only those who have fallen under the
American flag.
	I am striving to do right; the instructions
given me by the Priesthood in the discourses
in the News are my guiding star, and I strive
to live in accordance with the same. I had set
my mind to come to Utah next spring—I have
thought many times I would see you soon, but
surroundings look very cloudy at present. My
mind was fixed on this and I shall not give up.
I am trying to do my part, praying my Father
to help me and open my way. My mind was
never more firmly set on anything than this;
my Father has brought me through many try-
ing scenes in a wonderful manner, for which I
can bear testimony of the divine power in my
behalf, which has been an astonishment to me,
but I know it is true; He is my Father still. I
shall lean upon him and try to do right. I need
your faith and prayers. You have mine.
	Please give my love to Sister H. M. Whit-
ney, that worthy mother in Israel. God bless
her and her family. I hope to see you before
long and shake hands with you both. Pray
for me.
	May God bless His faithful Israel everywhere,
and may it be my happy lot to gather home to
Zion soon, as it was my intention to on leaving
England, but circumstances prevented.
	May God bless you and yours, and myself
with you, is the earnest prayer of your
brother,			HENRY M. WILLRAHAM.


