		Y. L. M. I. A. DAVIS STAKE.

	We had the pleasure of attending the Quarter-
ly Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. of Davis Stake,
held at Kaysville meeting house, Sunday, Sep.
28th, 1884. Meeting convened at half past
eleven a.m., in order not to interfere with Sab-
bath School, Supt. Anson V. Call presiding.
Prest. Wilford Woodruff and Elder Junius F.
Wells, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Dr. Romania B.
Pratt of this city, were present by invitation.
After the usual exercises and reading of min-
utes of previous conference, the early part of the
morning session was occupied in hearing verbal
reports from the several superintendents of the
Young Ladies' Associations, as follows: Mrs.
Josephine Wood, South Bountiful; Mrs. Jane
Holt, East Bountiful; Mrs. Mary R. Woolley,
Centerville; Miss Ethalie Miller, Farmington;
Mrs. Sarah A. Sheffield, Kaysville; Mrs. Martha
T. Hammond, South Hooper. These young
ladies gave very good reports of the condition of
their respective associations, and in a very
pleasing and creditable manner, expressing their
willingness to labor for the mutual good of all.
	Miss E. W. Smith, who presides over the Y.
L. M. I. A. of that Stake, made a few very ap-
propriate and suggestive remarks in a very
happy manner, and alluded to her great desire
to promote the best good of the young ladies
associated with her in the work of improve-
ment.
	Elder Wells then gave a short but very in-
teresting discourse, principally upon the benefits
and good results of these associations in prepar-
ing the youth of Zion to assist in building up
the Kingdom of God and proclaiming the Gos-
pel to the nations, and was followed by Elder B.
H. Roberts, who delivered an eloquent discourse,
speaking first of the opinion the world entertain
in regard to Mormonism flourishing upon igno-
rance, and the necessity of becoming intelligent,
in order to comprehend the Gospel of Jesus
Christ. Alluded to what is termed the conflict
between science and religion, and gave Scriptur-
al authority to substantiate his statements.
	In the afternoon after singing, prayer and
singing, the sacrament was administered and
the general and local authorities of the Y. M.
and Y. L. M. I. A. were presented and voted
upon.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells and Dr. Romania B. Pratt
each occupied a short time in speaking to the
young people, and President Wilford Woodruff
preached a very impressive sermon, calculated
to arouse the young to the importance of the
position they occupy in the Church, and inspire
them with zeal and energy in carrying out in
their lives the good teachings and instructions
they are constantly receiving. Urged them to
study and obtain knowledge, wisdom and under-
standing, to cultivate the Spirit of God and pre-
pare themselves to assist in the redemption and
gathering of Israel, and alluded to the vast mag-
nitude of the work yet to be done in temples for
the living and for the dead.
	The conference was numerouslly attended by
the young people of that Stake, and an excellent
spirit was manifested by all who too part in the
proceedings. Conference was adjourned for
three months, to be held at East Bountiful.


