LETTER OP CONDOLENCE.
Pima, Graham Co., A. T., Sep. 15,1881.
DEAR SISTER CONDOR:
	We, the undersigned, having heard of your
reat affliction and sorrow in the wound you re-
ceived and the loss of your two sons, who were
assassinated by a ruthless mob before your own
eyes, to say that we truly sympathize and con-
dole with you does not begin to express our
thoughts and feelings. Our prayers ascend for
you, dear sister, that God will console and com-
[-]ort you in this most sore and bitter ordeal that
has come upon you for presuming to worship
God according to the dictates of your own con-
science. Can it be possible that in this boasted
land of Liberty such high handed murder
will be tolerated? Dear lady, the Constitution
so dear and sacred to every true lover of liberty
has been violated, and the escutcheon of our
once free and happy country stained with the
blood of martyrs for the truth of God, and if
there is no justice granted you in the land of
your birth, appeal your case to the Courts above;
there you will receive retribution upon the
heads of those who have so cruelly pierced
your bleeding heart with wounds that cannot
be healed.
	Dear Sister Condor, we wish you to know and
the world to know, and ask angels to bear re-
cord on earth and in heaven, that we solemnly
protest and condemn such lawless outrage and
cold blooded murder as was committed upon
Elders Gibbs and Berry and the Condor family.
Yes, dear lady, in this proud nation where the
dear old flag still waves as a beacon light to all
nations to come to the “land of the free,” where
the Constitution, if held inviolate, will never
permit any outrage, or oppression upon any of
her subjects. Yes, fair Columbia has been the
mother of the oppressed of all nations. How is
if, to-day? Shall we publish it? Shall we bear
record to God, angels and patriots, who bled and
died to bequeathe to us that heaven-born boon,
liberty, that in this fair-famed, laud of freedom
the catalogue of crime is full? while the blood of
innocence cries from the ground for redress, ful-
filling the remarkable vision of the ancient
Apostle, recorded in Rev. 6th chapter, 9th and
10th verses, where he saw the souls of them
that were slain for the word of God and the tes-
timony which they held, crying under the altar,
“How long, O Lord, holy and true and right-
eous, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood
upon those who dwell upon the earth."
	May this console, you is the prayer of your de-
voted sisters, Cyrena Merrill, Mary L. Ransom,
Lucinda Gustafson,. Ruth McBride, Rhoda.E.
Foster, Josephine Rogers, Matilda Maxam,
Janetta A Ferrla, Sarah Ann Gale, Louisa
Johnson, Sarah Burns, Ellen J. Larson,
