SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER 1, 1884.


[Column 1]
		VISIT TO THE COUNTRY
	In Company with Sister	Eliza R. S. Smith we
left the city on the southern  railway train
Thursday morning, September 11th.  At Provo
Sisters M. A. Hyde and M. W. Snow joined our
party.  At Nephi we stopped long enough to
dine with Sister Pitchforth, then took Sanpete
Valley Railway for Fountain Green, where we
were most hospitably welcomed and entertained
at Bishop Johnson's.
	Friday morning at ten o'clock the Relief So
ciety Conference of that Stake convened in the
new brick meeting house, Sister M. A. Hyde
presiding. Prest. Peterson, with his wife and
a carriage load of ladies, had come from Eph-
raim to attend the sisters' Conference.  There
were a great many brethren present, and the re-
ports of the sisters from the different places
plainly showed that the Relief Society in that
county was in a flourishing condition, and the
sisters were doing a very excellent work; they
have given a great deal towards the Manti Tem-
ple, and are not weary in well doing.  They
have considerable money donated for a woolen
factory and the site has been selected.  The
sisters of Fountain Green furnished the money
to by the glass for their new meeting house.
Indeed it is wonderful how much has been ac
complished by the Relief Society in that one
Stake.  The meeting was addressed by Sisters
Jane Ann B[-]wn of Fayette, Caroline Madson
Mt. Pleasant, followed by Sister Eliza R. S. 
Smith, who gave much good advice, and re-
viewed the work which had been accomplished
by the Relief Society beginning without means.
She encouraged the sisters to persevere, to take
care of the poor, and urged them to live near to
the Lord.
	Prest. Peterson made some very pleasing and
interesting remarks, illustrating what she said
by very happy comparisons, which are always
impressive.
	Sister Hyde spoke in praise of the Brigham
Young Academy, and made other appropriate
remarks.
	The afternoon meeting was addressed by
Coun. Sarah Ann Peterson, who dwelt upon the
storing of grain, and told what had been accom-
plished in that direction by gleaning, and also
spoke of the exertions made to build the woolen
mill, and referred to other important labors in
which she was interested.  Sister Polly Ann
Johnson of Fountain Green made a few remarks
in regard to the work of the sisters there, and
spoke of her long and varied experience in the
Church.  Sister M. W. Snow of St. George oc
cupied a short time in speaking upon spiritual
things; referred to the days of the Prophet Jos-
eph and the principle of plural marriage.  Sister
E. B. Wells spoke upon the subjects of education
and cultivation of talent.
	Sister Eliza R. S. SMith spoke on the growth

			[Column 2]
of infidelity, its causes, and the necessity of the
young being instructed in the principles of the
Gospel and receiving the Holy Spirit to preserve
them from evil influences and as a safeguard
against temptation and doubt.  Referred par-
ticularly to government and discipline in the
training of children and to the correct cultiva-
tion of the conscience; thought mothers should
have the highest and best possible education.
Pres'. Peterson and Bishop Yorgenson each oc-
cupied a short time, after which meeting ad-
journed.
	In the evening the young men of the brass
band came to Bishop Johnson's to serenade the
ladies, and were invited in to partake of refresh-
ments; played some popular music very credit-
ably, which was quite enlivening.  Sister Eliza
in behalf of the ladies, made a few remarks,
thanking them for the courtesy.
	The conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Stake was held Saturday morning, September
13, Miss Helen Armstrong presiding; reports
were given by the young lady presidents in a 
brief and comprehensive manner, which was
very creditable.  The young girls at Moroni re-
ported concerning a fair held by them, at which
they had clea[-]ed quite a little sum of money to-
wards starting a library.  They had four quilts
to donate to the Deseret Hospital.  After a few
remarks from the president, Miss Armstrong,
Sister Eliza delivered a most excellent address
to the young, in which she included everything
young girls should learn, and gave them mother-
ly advice to guide them in after life; after which
the remainder of the time was taken up by the
other visiting sisters.
	In the afternoon the Primary Association met
in conference, Mrs. Hannah Collard presiding.
There were 130 children present.  Exercises and
recitations were well rendered.  Some remarks
were made by Sister Heywood of Chester, Sis-
ter Eliza R. and others.  At the conclusion con-
ference adjourned for three months.
	The same evening we drove to Bishop Irons'
at Moroni, where we were most heartily wel-
comed.  Next morning attended the Sunday
School, and also Sabbath services at 2 p.m. El-
der John Chase preached an excellent disco[--]se.
In the eveing there was a meeting of the
young people, and the house was crowded; Mrs.
A. M. Hardy presided.
	Monday morning drove over to Mt. Pleasant,
where a general meeting was appointed for
eleven a.m., and Primary at half past three
p.m.  We dined at Bishop Madsen's, and the
same evening we drove to Spring City, where a
general meeting was held in the evening at
seven.
	Tuesday morning drove to Ephraim, accom-
panied by Bishop Allred and Counselor Larsen
and several ladies.  Dined at Prest. Peterson's,
met with the Relief Society at two and Primary
at half past four p.m., remaining there all night,
and spending a very pleasant evening with
Prest. Peterson and him amiable family.
	Wednesday morning the party drove over to
Manti, where a general meeting had been ap-
pointed at eleven.  Dined at Bro. Wareham's
and then went to visit the Temple, Bro. Folsom,
the architect, and also Prest. Ma[-]b[-]n, who re-
sides there, took great pains to take the party
through the building and explain it.
	This Temple being built in the mountain and
exalted above the hills gives it, to one tinctured
with sublime ideas, a sort of Scriptural signifi-
cance, and one cannot describe in words the feel-
ing of enthusiasm and awe it inspires in the
soul. It is a grand and magnificent structure,
and one that will "attract the gaze and wonder-
ing eyes of all that worship gloriously."  After
returning from the Temple we went direct to
the meeting house to the Primary, where the

			[Column 3]
children had already assembled.  The meeting
was a very interesting one, and indeed all the
meetings in the Stake had been very numer-
ously attended, and many brethren had taken
pains to be present.  The Bishops showed every
attention to the sisters, conveying the party
from place o place, and manifesting an in
terest in the organizations.  We returned to Eph-
raim and remained at Prest. Peterson's over night.
	Thursday morning early drove over to Wales,
and took the train for Nephi, where we arrived
barely in time to fill an appointment to meet
with the Relief Society.  The  meeting house, which
was well filled, Sister Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Sister Eliza addressed the congregation upon the
duties and privileges, as well as labors devolving
upon Latter-day Saints, and exhorted all to dilli-
gence and faithfulness.  Sisters Wells and Snow
each spoke a few minutes.
	This was our last meeting on our visit south.
We dined at Bro. Bryan's with several of the
brethren and sisters of Nephi.  We enjoyed
ourselves very much while absent, and feel very
grateful to all who so kindly entertained us
while travelling in the interest of the L. D. S.
women's associations, and we reached home
Thursday evening, September 18th, in excellent
health and spirits, and very grateful that Sister
Eliza at eighty years of age had enjoyed the
journey so well, and had been able to speak in
every one of the sister's meetings.


