BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY

(Continued.)

	In describing the ferry over the Missouri
near the Pottawatamie village, he says, "A
heavy freshet had at this time swollen the
river to a width, as I should judge, of some-
thing like a mile and a half, and dashed past,
its fierce current rushing, gurgling and eddying
as if thrown from a mill race, or scriptural
fountain of the deep. Its aspect did not invite
the oxen to their duty, and the labor was to
force them to it. The driver's was the sought
after post of honor here; and sometimes, when
repeated failures have urged them to emula-
tion, I have seen the youths in stepping from
back to back of the struggling monsters, or
swimming in among battling hoofs, display

[Column 2]
feats of address and hardihood, that would
have made Franconi's or the Madrid bullring
vibrate with bravoes of applause. But in the
hours after hours that I have watched this
sport at the ferry side, I never heard an oath
or the language of quarrel, or knew it pro-
voke the least sign of ill feeling.
	"After the sorrowful word was given out to
halt, and make preparations for winter, a chief
labor became the making of hay; and with
every day-dawn brigades of mowers would take
up the march to their positions in chosen mead-
ows—a prettier sight than a charge of caval-
ry—as they laid their swarths, whole compan-
ies of scythes abreast."
	"When they set about building their winter
houses too, the Mormons went into quite con-
siderable timbering operations, and performed
desperate feats of carpentry.	*	*	It
was wonderful to notice the readiness with
which they turned their hands to woodcraft;
some of them, though I believe these had gen-
erally been bred carpenters, wheelwrights, or
more particularly boat builders, quite outdoing
the most notable voyageurs in the use of the
ax. One of these would fell a tree, strip off
its bark, cut and split up the trunk in piles of
planks, scantling, or shingles, make posts and
pins, and poles—everything almost of the
branches, and treat toil, from first to last, with
more sportive flourish than a schoolboy whit-
tling his shingle.
	"Inside the camp the chief labors were con-
fined to the women. From the moment, when
after the halt, the lines had been laid, the
springs were dug out and the ovens and fire-
places built, though the men still assumed to
set the guards and enforce the regulations of
police, the empire of the tented town was with
the better sex. They were the chief comfort-
ers of the severest sufferers, the kind nurses
who gave them in their sickness those dear at-
tentions with which pauperism is hardly poor,
and which the greatest wealth often fails to
buy. And they were a nation of wonderful
managers; they could hardly be called house-
wives in etymological strictness, but it was
plain they had once been such, and most dis-
tinguished ones. Their art availed them in
their changed affairs. With almost their en-
tire culinary materials limited to the milk of
their cows, some store of meal or flour and a
very few condiments, they brought their thou-
sand and one recipes into play with a success
that outdid for their families the miracle of the
Hebrew woman's cruse."
	As he says, we could "make butter on a
march by the dashing of the wagon, and so
nicely to calculate the working of harm in the
jolting heats," that as soon after camping as the
fire could be prepared the "the well-kneaded
loaf ' was ready for the bake kettle or reflector,
which commodities were well suited to the
wants and necessities during our camp life.
	"The first duty of the Mormon women was,
through all changes of place and fortune, to
keep alive the altar fire of home. Whatever
their manifold labors for the day, it was their
effort to complete them against the sacred hour
of evening fall. For by that time all the out-
workers, scouts, ferrymen or bridgemen, road-
makers, herdsmen, or hay-makers, had finished
their tasks and come into their rest.	*	*
But every day closed as every day began, with
an invocation of the Divine favor; without
which, indeed, no Mormon seemed to dare to
lay him down to rest. With the first shining


[Column 1]
of the stars laughter and loud talking hushed,
the neighbor went his way, you heard the last
hymn sung, and then the thousand-voiced mur-
mur of prayer was heard, like babbling water
falling down the hills.
	"There was no austerity, however, about the
religion of Mormonism. Their fasting and
penance, it is no jest to say, was altogether in-
voluntary. They made no merriment of that.
*	*	They had the sort of strong-
stomached faith that is still found embalmed
in sheltered spots of Catholic Italy and Spain.
*	*	It mixed itself up fearlessly
with the common transactions of their every
day life, and only to give liveliness and col-
or.
	"If any passages of life bear better than others
a double interpretation, they are adventures of
travel and of the field. What old persons call
discomforts and discouraging mishaps, are the
very elements to the young and sanguine of
what they are willing to term fun. The
Mormons took the young and hopeful side.
They could make sport and frolic of their trials
and often turn right sharp suffering into right
round laughter against themselves."	*	*
	August 20th. Horace mentions the choir of
singers meeting at Bro. Wm. Clayton's tent to
practice, also of a council being held that day;
among the rest was considered the propriety
of sending for goods and other things, by Bro.
Whitney who was preparing to go to St. Louis
for this purpose. On the 21st he wrote "Brigham
and Dr. Richards with Brother Kimball and
father spent the most of the forenoon at my
tent in talking over the affairs of the Church,
etc."
	The 22nd I well remember it being my 18th
birthday. That day Horace wrote a letter of
exhortation and advice left by my father to his
family to be read to them that evening as he,
with President B. Young, W. Richards and
one or two others, went over the river to hold
meetings next day it being Sunday. The same
day Horace mentions the following event.
	One night while the brethren were encamped
in the woods on the route to Leavenworth, a
terrible storm or hurricane arose, which sur-
passed anything of the kind within the memo-
ry of the inhabitants.
	But what supprised them all was that al-
though showers of limbs of trees were con-
stantly falling around them, the space within
which they were encamped, was in perfect
calmness and security."	*	*	*	*
	"A man by the name of Griffin called and
brought intelligence from Bro. Miller's camp.
He related to us an anecdote concerning two
of the brethren who went out on mules armed
and equipped as a kind of a scouting party
were surprised by a party of Indians of the
Punkaw tribe who dragged them from their
mules, took from them their arms and were
about to confine them when one of the mules
suddenly turned and kicked one of the party
over—this circumstance distracting their atten-
tion afforded the men a chance to escape
which they quickly did afoot, leaving their
mules etc., behind in the hands of the Indians.
The brethren returned to their camp, and in
two days after their mules came in with their
saddles and bridles on—the reason was sup-
posed to be that they broke away from the
Indians and they could not retake them.
Brother Griffin also told us that eight chiefs
of the Punkaw tribe came to the Pawnee vil-
lage (where the brethren are encamped) to
smoke the "pipe of peace," with the Pawnees,
who were out on a hunting excursion. As they
did not return, after waiting for some time, the
Pawnee chief told Bro. Miller that they would
conduct him to a good place (one of the vil-
lages) to pass the winter, which they did, it
being fifty miles north on the route to Fort
Laramie. They went with them and found it
a beautiful place indeed, abounding in rushes.

[Column 2]
pea-vines, etc., etc. The Indians appeared to
be very friendly and offered them corn, or any-
thing else they wanted and told them they were
welcome to put up buildings and remain as
long as they chose."


