MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:

	Dear friend:  This is a quiet Sunday just cool
enough to be pleasant, though the sun shines
brightly. I am going to pretend that I have
run over to see you and to chat a while with
you all.
	First, I wish to tell Mrs. Elizabeth Little
how much her "Day-dream" pleased me. I
should think you Mormon women would write
such stories often. Our papers are full of do-
mestic tales of "Love in a Cottage,"  "Love in
the Palace," "Love in the Attic." The highest,
best forms are pictured out and a sort of ro-
mantic glamor is thrown over all, that entices
the young and beguiles the older readers. I be-
lieve there are enough of pleasant, truly happy
domestic scenes among your family surround-
ings, which, if written up, would do much good
for your people.
	So Mrs. Newman denies a part of the Cin-
cinnati paper's report of her speech there? She
need not deny it, for the report was correct.
Some lady reporter must have been present, as
no gentlemen were admitted. I presume she
thought by excluding gentlemen she would
give out the impression that some awful doings
of the Mormons would be told. Too awfully
awful to tell in the presence of gentlemen. I
did not see that she told anything so dreadful,
however. To be sure she said, "there are no
homes in Utah, only kennels of reproduction,”
which, doubtless, six out of ten of the ladies
present, could have affirmed is the case gener-
ally in this part of the country. “Home,
sweet home. There is no place so dear to me
as home." Mark Twain said in reply, “Yes,
that’s the way it strikes me; mine got so dear I
could not pay, so I broke up and went to board-
ing."
	Home—children, a mother, love, pleasant
evenings around the fireside, a resting place for
the weary wanderer in after years, when child-
hood has passed and the cares of life have wear-
ied the heart. That is what makes a home;
and I believe there are as many among your
people as there are here. Homes where
	"Each unforgotten word,
		When far those loved ones roam,
	Calls back the heart which once it stirred,
		To childhood's happy home."

	Mrs. Hemans, who wrote these beautiful
lines, and so many others, is loved and hon-
ored. Her domestic surroundings were very
unpleasant, and we sympathise with her that
her life was saddened, but one might say that
had she been a Mormon and given another
wife to her husband, her children need not have
seemed so fatherless, nor would her life have
been more lonely, and her husband could have
been happy. According to the biography writ-
ten by L. M. Sigourney, Captain Hemans had
no great faults, only that "he grew jealous of
her writings." I suppose she cared more for
her literature than she did for her husband,
and neglected him for it, without giving him
any substitute for her love and companion-
ship.  He had a right to be jealous, any man
would be.
	Mormon women, of course I do not know
you personally, nor do I know but that you
are a "poor, deluded set of women, who are
down-trodden and unhappy and would be
thankful to have your chains broken," but I
cannot but believe you are as happy as the
general run of women. That you are intelli-
gent your letters prove. Mrs. Newman ac-
knowledged she got much of her information
from Ann Eliza, did she?  Ann Eliza!  The
woman who hated polygamy so, and dreaded
it continually, and then, as soon as divorced
from her first husband, who had no wife but
herself, she married a man who had a dozen
and more; then, after escaping from something
so terrible, she had to get a gentleman in the
East to write her lecture for her.
	The only particular outrage I can remember
that Ann Eliza mentioned in her lectures (I
heard her twice), was that Brigham, when he
prepared a house for her, placed the stairway
in the parlor instead of complying with her re-
quest to have it in the sitting room or kitchen.
That was awful! No man outside of Mormon-
ism would do such a thing. Aside--as they
say in the drama--The majority of men, outside
of Mormonism, do not place stairways at all,
for they do not build houses for their wives.
	The Tennessee massacre was sad and deplor-
able. Oh, I do not see why so many sad
events must mar the enjoyment of life. The
few short years of life should be spent in joy.
The Maker of the universe has fitted up such
a beautiful home for man--full of beauty, with
the bright skies overhead, the flowers and trees
in such endless varieties; the music of birds
and the fruits, to delight ear and taste; wonders
on every side to charm and amuse. Why can
not all unite in peace and praise to sing:  "Praise
God from whom all blessings flow." But it
seems as though such a condition cannot be
brought about; and, as Pope says, "To reason
right is to submit." He says also, I believe,
"Passions are the elements of life."
	But perhaps I am taking too much of your
time, so, for the present, I will say good:bye.
			With best wishes,
							EMILY SCOTT. 
	Ohio, August 24th, 1884.


Miss Flora Underwood is the newly appoint-
ed teller of the Granite National Bank, of
Quincy, Mass.
	Charlotte Smith is President of the Woman's
National Industrial League. She is employed
to gather statistics of female employments for
the Government Labor Bureau. She finds that
there are 125,000 bread-winning women in
New York city; of these 32,500 are now out of
employment. 30,000 are destiute. Twenty
thousand girls drop from the working ranks
into evil lives every year, mostly from the
class of shop-girls and saleswomen.


