A VOICE FROM MESA.
<fer;y why="" 1$'="" it,="" ;.th'at;the1="" wgrld.="" are,="" r:="" 22="" ?:&="" ,e="" ’v<="" div="">EDITOR EXPONENT:
	While sitting alone this lovely Sabbath
morning meditating upon the great and glori-
ous truths revealed in our holy religion, my
heart swells with joy and gratitude to me
Heavenly Father, that amongst the few, com-
paritively speaking, I have been the ahppy re-
cipient of the truths of the everlasting Gospel,
revealed through our beloved and martyred
Prophet, Joseph Smith, and I thought how
strange indeed--a marvelous work and a won
der. Why is it that the world are so blin


that they cannot see as we see?  But there are
none so blind as those who will not see.
	We certainly live in a great and important
age of the world, when the great preparatory
work is being performed, to prepare a people
for the great reign of rest spoken of by the
ancient and modern prophets; when Satan will
have no more power over the inhabitants of
the earth.  To accomplish this object mission-
aries are being sent to every nation under the
heavens, where they will receive them.  The
joyful tidings have gone forth that the ever-
lasting Gospel has again been restored, and the
inhabitants of the earth will have the oppor-
tunity to escape the terrible judgments and
calamities which shall immediately precede the
coming of the Savior.  This enrages Satan
and he endeavors to stir up the hearts of the
people to destroy those heralds of salvation
and mercy, who are sent among them to pro-
claim glad tidings of great joy to the sons and
daughters of men.
	How blind their eyes to the great and ster-
ling qualities of those men who go forth with
their lives in their hands, without purse or
scrip, to gather out and glean for the last time
those choice ones who are worthy of salvation.
The world do not know this people, nor do they
take much pains to find out anything in our
favor; if they did they would think differently
of us.  But what care we what their opinion is;
we are in the hands of the Lord, in Him is
our trust, and He will not fail us if we are
faithful to our duties, attend to our prayers,
and live up to every principle revealed for the
guidance of his people.  Without we do this
we have no promise of protection when times
come that shall try men’s souls.
							S. M. P.


