	HELEN AND VIRGINIA

		[Continued.]
An hour later Helen strayed
Adown her garden path alone.
Soft moonlight wrapt the lonely scene,
	And heaven’s peace fell sweetly round;
Unuttered prayer reached God’s far throne;
	And calm and holy strength were found.

She turned and sought Virginia's side
Musing in troubled thought apart
Within the porch’s vine wreathed shade.
	“Virginia, should there come to you
The love, and proffer of a heart
	That you should know is pure and true,

“Accept it without fear or thought
Of hesitance for any cause.
You have had testimony of
	The wide world’s hollow faith and sin,
And you have learned God’s higher laws—
	Fear not to choose and live therein.

“For that pure love which we profess
Toward all creatures, o’en divides
Our own heart's treasures; we, too, lay
	Our Isaac on faith’s altar raised;
His power and love our strength provides;
	He gives, He takes—His name be praised!”

Fair, peaceful as the moonlit night
The wondrous charm that thrilled them through;
Pure, vast as heaven’s dark blue depth
	The faith surmounting bonds of earth,
And in that hour these spirits knew
	A fre’er height, a holier birth.

Union of soul, more sacred sweet
And firmer e’en than kindred ties,
For, faith and sacrifice combined
	Within the heart, the world without—
Thought's grandest aspirations rise
	And gird the human, all about.

Then, rising, Helen stooped to kiss
Virginia’s drooping, weeping face,
Tears of sweet joy and gratitude.
	“Good night, and banish all thy tears;
God keep us even by His grace
	Through blessed days and months and years.”

“Helen, I have been lonely; where
Have you been straying this fair night
And I not with you? Are you sad?”
	For gentle as one half adream
She came in silence in his sight,
	So pale, and yet so calm she seemed.

“Helen," the fear leaped to his lips—
“Have I aggrieved you, do you know
What I have striven against, and hid,
	And yet is truth? O Helen, speak!
Waiting, I’ve wavered to and fro,
	For love of you has made me weak.”

“And have you feared me more than God,
Have I e’er checked your upward path
That you should falter to reveal
	To me thoughts righteous, pure and good?
Would God not move me in His wrath
	If I ’gainst His commandments stood?

“And did you dream I did not see
The first faint thought that lit your eyes?
O love that’s true has quickest sight!
	And the heart hears in ev’ry tone.
That other thought; O love is wise
	And brave and swift, and gen’rous too.

“But dearer far than this same love,
Love of the Gospel—its reward.
And I would rather lose e’en yours
	Than see you yield a truth for mine;
Be loyal first unto thy Lord
	And trust this woman heart of mine.

"E'en now thine angel waits to bear
The tidings of this hour fulfilled;
The angel that bears up our prayers
	Before we close our eyes in sleep,
Awaits thy words—no longer still
	Within thy heart its burden keep.

"Go speak to her, and let us kneel
Not three divided, but as one."

[Column 2]
He sought, and brought Virginia, then,
	As they bowed down in evening prayer,
He said: “O God, Thy will be done!
	And help us each aright to bear

“Our mission in Thy work through life,
And may these hands linked thus to-night
E’er faithful prove in every deed.
	Be Thou our guide lest we should fail:
We thank Thee for that holy light
	Whereby our sight pierced through the veil

“Of ignorance, and saw beyond.
Establish so our lives that none
May blame Thy cause because of us;
	But truthful ones may search and find
That here Thy will not man’s is done
	To benefit all humankind.

“This night’s betrothal may we keep
Through life, death and eternity,
In love and fear and reverence.
	Bless Thou, Thy daughter Helen, here,
Accept her offering unto Thee,
	And may the Comforter be near

“Her side in ev’ry trying hour.
Bless Thou Virginia, may her feet
Ne’er falter in the chosen path;
	Fill her young years with wisdom’s light
That righteous works may make complete
	Her joy and mission in Thy sight.

“Bless, Thou, Thy servant, be his guide,
That those who with him seek Thy love
May never lose their trust in him;
	May we Thy faithful children be,
And earn below that place above
	Where we, O Lord, Thy face shall see.”


