	VISIT THROUGH SEVIER STAKE.

	On the morning of the 7th of July Presi-
dent Elizabeth Bean, her counselors, Sisters
Jane Spencer and Thirza Thurber, and Sec.
C. A. Hunt, left Richfield en route for Gunni-
son, where they met Sisters M. I. Horne, Jane
S. Richards and E. S. Taylor, who had come
thus far on their way to visit Sevier Stake in
the interest of the Relief Society and Y. L. M.
I. A., and to attend their quarterly conference
at Richfield.  We spent the night at Gunnison,
where a meeting of the sisters was held, ad-
dressed by the sisters from Salt Lake, and also
from Richfield.
	The next day we took up our journey south,
visiting and holding meetings at Salina, Red-
mond and Aurora, arriving at Richfield on
the evening of the 9th.
	The next day was spent in rest, and in the
evening we attended a party gotten up by the
Presidents of the two societies, Sisters Eliza-
beth Ence and Dorcas Farnsworth.  They were
assisted by their counselors and members of
the societies and Y. L. A.  The hall was dec-
orated with evergreens, flags, banners, pictures,
etc., and presented a beautiful appearance.
Elderly persons, and those not wishing to join
in the dance, found comfortable seats on the
stand, it having been arranged for that pur-
pose, while younger persons, or any who felt
disposed, joined in the social dance.  However,
dancing was interspersed with songs, recitations
and a beautiful poem of welcome and good
wishes, addressed to the sisters of S. L., by Bro.
Wm. Morrison.
	The next morning, 11th July, the quarterly
conference convened, Prest. Elizabeth Bean

[Column 2]
presiding. Sisters Horne and Richards ad-
dressed the meeting, which was largely attend-
ed, and a spirit of thanks and rejoicing was
manifest.
	At 2 p.m. the meeting house was packed to
its utmost capacity.  Sisters Taylor and Horne
spoke to the sisters upon many subjects of in-
terest, and the Spirit of God rested upon them
to the edification of all.
	On the 12th the Y. L. and P. A. held their
conferences, which were well attended, and a
good spirit prevailed.  At 5 o'clock p.m., at a
a meeting of the Y. L. A. of Richfield, the
president having sent in a resignation, she was
released and a reorganization effected.
	Monday the journey south and east was re-
sumed, visiting and holding meetings at Cen-
tral, Elsinore, Joseph, Monroe, Annabella and
Glenwood.  At this point our party were all
very much disappointed in having to part with
Sister Taylor, who was summoned home by
telegraph on account of sickness in the fam-
ily.
	Tne next morning, the 16th, we started for
Grass Valley, arriving at Koosharem in the
afternoon, and holding two meetings.
	On the 17th proceeded to Rabbit Valley,
and from thence came to Fish Lake.
	The journey, though rough and tiresome,
was delightful to the eye. The hills and val-
leys were clothed in beautiful robes of green of
various shades, and dotted here and there with
trees and shrubbery.  The Lake is picturesque
and romantic, lying, as it does, in the tops of
the mountains, surrounded by trees and beau-
tiful, fragrant wild flowers.
	On the 19th and 20th attended the Stake
Conference of the Y. M. M. L. A.  President
Woodruff and Bro. Jos. A. West were present,
and an excellent time was enjoyed by all,there
being about 600 persons present.
	At the close of the afternoon meeting on
Saturday, the 19th, Prest. Woodruff called a
special meeting, in which he requested the sis-
ters to occupy the time.  Sisters Horne and
Richards spoke with power and eloquence, be-
ing led by the Spirit.
	Sunday evening came down to Burrville and
held meeting.
	Monday returned to Richfield, holding meet-
ing with the Primary at Glenwood as we came
through.  In all we held twenty-two meet-
ings.
	The next morning Sister Richards started
home, but Sister Horne, being ill and fatigued,
with so long and rough a journey, stayed a few
days longer to rest, and until her health should
be improved.  We all enjoyed our labors, and
felt that they had been attended with success.
	We here feel to tender our thanks to Bishop
J. L. Horne, Bros. Albert Hagley, Thomas
Butler, Jos. Parker and Thomas Ross Sen., for
furnishing conveyances for us, and their ser-
vices as teamsters, and likewise all others who
assisted or contributed to our comfort.
	Praying that God will bless all those who
labor for the welfare of Zion, we remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
			ELIZABETH BEAN, President,
			C. A. HUNT, Secretary.


