			FERENCE.

	The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward As-
sembly Rooms, September 19, commencing
at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Opened by singing, "Let Zion in her beauty
rise." Prayer by Counselor E. S. Taylor. Sing-
ing, "O, say what is truth," etc.
	President Horne made a few opening remarks,
and Mrs. E. B. Wells read the reports from the
several branches in the city and country, also
the complete report of all, after which Mrs. Ma-
rinda N. Hyde and Mrs. Presendia E. Kimball
each made a few interesting and spiritual re-
marks. President Horne spoke to the Secreta-
ries about having correct reports in time for the
Semi-Annual Stake Conference, and stated that
Sisters E. S. Taylor and S. M. Kimball would
giver the necessary instruction on some general
meeting day to the Secretaries, to aid them in
making out their reports.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing." Prayer by
Mrs. M. W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session opened with singing, "The
time is far spent." etc. Prayer by B. W. Smith.
Singing, "Hark, ye mortals." Mrs. M. A. E.
Watmough explained a piece of needle work she
had there on exhibition. It represented Joseph
relating his dream to his father and mother;  she
was over seventy years of age when she com-
menced it, and had worked it expressly for the
Logan Temple.
	The meeting was addressed by Mrs. B. W.
Smith, Mrs. M. E. Wilcox, Mrs. R. M. Carring-
ton and Mrs. Rebecca Jones. Each spoke a short
time giving good counsel, relating items of ex-
perience and exhorting the sisters to dilligence,
faithfulness and good works.
	Mrs. Annie T. Smoot spoke to the mothers
upon the training of children, and gave good,
sound practical advice; urged them to send the
children to the Primary.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball made some very pertinent
remarks, and spoke of the conference she had
attended a few days before in Ogden, and said a
great many bishops attended it, the President
of the Stake and many other brethren; there


was a large attendance of people. Mr. and Mrs.
Bancroft and Miss Bancroft of San Francisco
were present, and in the afternoon the Baptist
minister of Ogden was in the congregation.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells made a few remarks, gave a
brief sketch of the visit she had recently made
with Sister Eliza R. S. Smith, Sister M. W.
Snow and Sister M. A. Hyde through Sanpete
Stake.
	Dr. Ellen B. Fergueon bore her testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, and spoke of the great
work to be done in temples, and the need of
careful preparation for that work; alluded to her
being the only representative in the Church of
her family, and her desire to be faithful and
worthy.
	Mrs. M. L. Morris spoke a few minutes--re-
ferred to what Dr. Ferguson had said, and en-
dorsed all that had been said.
	Mrs. H. T. King made some very interesting
remarks upon society, refinement and perfec-
tion. Mrs. Diana Reid bore a faithful testimony.
President Horne made concluding remarks. Re-
ferred to the different subjects the sisters had
spoken upon, and particularly exhorted mothers
in regard to teaching their children truthfulness,
honesty and obedience.
	Prest. Horne proposed that Mrs. Maria W.
Wilcox, who holds the position of Cor. Sec., be
appointed also Assistant Secretary. The mo-
tion was put and the vote was unanimous. Mrs.
Elizabeth Stayner was proposed as Recording
Secretary for the Relief Society of this Stake,
and was sustained by the conference to fill that
office. Mrs. M. A. E  Watmough made a few
remarks upon the government of children.
Singing Doxology, conference adjourned until
December. Prayer by Mary A. Freeze.
				______
