"WALK AS CHILDREN OF LIGHT."—EPH. 7.8.

Children of light, are ye slumbering, roaming?
	Where, where is the witness for God and His Son?
Christ in us, Christ for us, Christ risen, Christ coming;
	Are these but traditions? Is victory won?
Do we shrink from the scroll on His banner unfurl'd,
From the changeless "My Kingdom is not of this
	world."

There is battle—the foemen are marshall'd in order;
	Are we ready to stand, suffer, die at His word?
There are posts to be held by lone watcher and warder
	Enroll'd in the book of the wars of the Lord.
Are we numbered with those who count all things but
	loss,
For Christ and His glory, for Christ and His cross?

Spirit of God now revive us, restoring
	A witness of love, separation and might;
Illumine the world, let His children, adoring,
	Find warrior munition and strength for the fight.
Yea, lighten our darkness—dispersing the mist
Reveal the unsearchable riches of Christ.

For oh! there are heights of unclouded communion,
	And trophies of promise yet, yet to be won;
There are earnests of heaven in pilgrimage union,
	And well-springs of bliss still untasted, unknown
Who fully his charter, his birthright explores,
Who fathoms the deepness "all things are yours."

Child of the light, art thou hidden—abiding?
	Of the holy of holies the floors hast thou trod?
In the secret, the calm of Thy presence confiding,
	Is the home of thy soul in the shadow of God?
Thence none shall efface, nor can time disannul
His "ask and receive, that your joy may be full."

Art thou glad, day by day, for a quicken'd observing
	Of the hand that with skillfulness fashions thy path?
Of new loving-kindness, fresh pledges preserving
	In works pre-ordained for the proof of thy faith;
Omnipotence raising the soul when it faints
With the whispered "He keepeth the feet of His
	Saints."

Oh, now, by our hope, by the cross, by its guerdon!
	Let the glory of God on His ransom'd be seen.
Appointed to each is his service, his burden;
	Shall we swerve where the footsteps of Jesus have
		been?
No, Christ and eternity, this everymore
Be the watchword of lives which He died to restore.

So we take up the march, on to victory pressing,
	Flashing back the sun signals of guidance and cheer;
Reflecting the radiance of pardon and blessing,
	Living out the glad song-note, "Salvation is near."
Thus Father, thus Savior, thus Spirit of might,
Let us shine, love and walk as the children of light.
	Meadow, Sep. 12, 1884.


