FEBRUARY 1969 LISTEN TO SILENCE Listen to silence: Let its silver spill Into the tired spirit, And the uncertain will. Find the deep, cool well Of darkness where it sleeps, Renew yourself from the pound Of noise the city keeps. Listen to silence: Let it mother you so You will Know who you are, And where you are to go. Listen to silence: lt can heal your pain; It can lift you upward, And make you whole again. —Christie Lund Coles The Cover: 5 Jupiter Columns at Baalbek, Lebanon Transparency by Alice Colton Smith Lithographed { Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: ) Brook in Winter Photograph by Lee Van Art Layout: '— Dick Scopes Illustrations: '* Mary Scopes It is a great joy to see how our many young sisters welcome the Magazine as a

"helper" in their lives, since becoming members or just married. As one young mother

said, "It gives us everything to be better wives, mothers, and Church members." One

of the most thrilling moments of my life came when my sweet young eighteen-year-old

daughter, who is a freshman at Ricks College, said to me over the phone, "Oh; Mom,

I just love Relief Society, and the lessons are the greatest. ..." I am so thankful

that our Church colleges have Relief Society for the young sisters so that they will

have this foundation to build upon when they get married.

He/en Shav^, President, South Carolina West Stake, Charlotte, North Carolina

I will never make "Five-hour Rolls" again after finding the wonderful recipe for onehour

rolls and other breads in the August issue sent in by Mildred Lewis, Mesa,

Arizona. In the September issue I thoroughly enjoyed the article "A Little Walk Along

the Upper Provo River," by Claire Noall. I know I have walked these same paths and

beheld some of the scenes portrayed in her beautiful color transparencies. The October

issue, coming to me on a blue day, was so very welcome. I especially liked the poem,

"To Everything There Is a Season," by Alice Brady Myers.

June B. Jensen, Orem, Utah

It made me happy to see my former missionary companion's picture in the November

Magazine, page 855. Vidella Rushton Vance and I met in Omaha in 1923 and became

devoted friends, and through the years we have written letters to each other and

visited when we could. She and her husband Reed have always lived in Salt Lake City,

until their call to Australia nearly two years ago, and I have lived in Blackfoot, Idaho,

since my marriage. ... I love the Magazine and the work in Relief Society and other

organizations. Rita D. Williams, Blackfoot, Idaho

Having recently finished reading the story by Mabel Harmer, "If Spring Be Late," I

should like to say that I enjoyed it tremendously. My husband and I spent two years

(1960-62) in Great Britain, and it was so much fun reading this story, and I enjoyed

reliving so many things that she wrote about— the beautiful countryside, the rain and

fog, riding the tube in London (which we did), the different expressions of the people,

which I still love to hear, from people who are here now in our country. We learned

courtesy over there, as we have never known it. The people were so kind, even though

they were not members of our Church. Sister Harmer's story brought back many

happy memories of our mission there. Our love is still with the members in Plymouth,

England, and Newport and Swansea, Wales, where my husband was branch president,

and where we spent so many happy months. May God continue to bless the saints

throughout Great Britain, that the branches may continue to grow and prosper.

Marjorie H. Bronson, Murray, Utah

May I tell you how much I enjoyed the story "If Spring Be Late," by Mabel Harmer.

Since I love the castles and cottages of Britain so much, it really is a joy to read a

story with an English-American setting. Olga Milius, Granger, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine is sent to me each month by Mrs. Ro Day, a member of

the Mormon Church on Dover Street, Newport Beach, California. Now I am not a

member of this Church, but Mrs. Ro Day is a member and has charge of the sewing

and embroidery part. On page 662 of the September issue is a picture of Mrs. McBride.

I am the same age and do all the things that she does— also take care of my garden

and patio. Elfie A. Robsne, Newport Beach, California

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Jacaranda Tree Bernice Ames) ===
Sere' ook 44 East South Temple, and Cottonwood Mall, Salt Lake City 2472 Washington Bivd., Ogden 777 So. Main, Town & Country Orange, California Ieee cece neces ee ceeteeen een es R. S. Feb. 69 by Dr. W. Dean Belnap and Dr. Glen C. Griffin This sensible guide to marital harmony frankly discusses all phases of marriage. Includes valuable information on temple marriage, husbandwife relationships and rearing of children. $2.95 $4.95 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 312% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. Send me (] ABOUT MARRIAGE AND MORE $2.95 [] THEY MADE MORMON HISTORY $4.95 Total cost $ 000..0..005 Enclosed find check (1, money order ([], established account (/). Ellnen ennnnnEey 4 I » ESSE EEN TEEEEEEESES Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Spring Waits Close Linnie Fisher Robinson) ===
Main, Town & Country Orange, California Ieee cece neces ee ceeteeen een es R. S. Feb. 69 by Dr. W. Dean Belnap and Dr. Glen C. Griffin This sensible guide to marital harmony frankly discusses all phases of marriage. Includes valuable information on temple marriage, husbandwife relationships and rearing of children. $2.95 $4.95 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 312% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. Send me (] ABOUT MARRIAGE AND MORE $2.95 [] THEY MADE MORMON HISTORY $4.95 Total cost $ 000..0..005 Enclosed find check (1, money order ([], established account (/). Ellnen ennnnnEey 4 I » ESSE EEN TEEEEEEESES Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from T3 size-cap overflow) ===
hy. Of the heavens. The latter can unravel all mysteries pertaining to the earth. But the philosophy of the earth cannot enter into the mysteries of the kingdom of God, or the purposés of the Most High. (/bid., page 73.) That John Taylor did not regard philosophy as the key to a knowledge of heavenly things is evident from the following statement: Speaking of philosophy... I was almost buried up in it while I was in Paris. I was walking about one day in the Jardin des. Plantes—a_ splendid garden. There they had a sort of exceedingly light cake. It was so thin and light that you could blow it away, and you could eat all day of it, and never be satisfied. Somebody asked me what the name of it was. I said, I don't know the proper name, but in the absence of one, I can give it a name—I will call it philosophy, or fried froth, whichever you like. It is 

87 February 1969

 so light you can blow it away, eat it all day, and at night be as far from being satisfied as when you began.... (Ibid., page 78.) John Taylor recognized in the gospel the "adhesive principle sufficiently powerful to unite" the peoples of the earth. (lbid., page 83.) We. Under the inspiration of the Almighty, will introduce the laws of God that exist in the heavens and upon the earth. And form a nucleus of truth, of virtue and intelligence. Of law and order. Of principles pertaining to morals, to philosophy, to politics, to religion, and to everything that is pure, exalting, and ennobling, and the kingdom will be the Lord's. (Ibid., page 83.) He predicted that we will yet see the world... Flocking to Zion by thousands and tens of thousands they will say, "We don't know anything about your religion, we don't care much about religious matters, but you are honest and honorable, and upright and just, and you have a good, just and secure government, and we want to put ourselves under your protection, for we cannot feel safe anywhere else. (Jbid., page 72.) He frequently spoke of the power of the priesthood and its administrative function in the law of heaven. Here is an example: We are the offspring of God, and God in these last days has seen. Fit to place us in communication with himself. He has, through the revelations of himself and of his Son Jesus Christ, by the ministry of holy angels and by the restoration of the holy priesthood which emanates from God, and by which he himself is governed, placed us in a position whereby we can fulfill the object of our creation. There are certain eternal laws that have existed from before the foundation of the world. There has been a priesthood also in existence always, and hence it is called the everlasting priesthood, and it is administered in time and in eternity. 88 That priesthood has been conferred upon man together with the right of the gospel. And we are told how man can get into possession of the Holy Spirit of God, and how he can be placed in communication with God. ([bid., pp. 70-71.) It is altogether understandable that John Taylor, with his understanding, faith, and expectations, would be alert and sensitive to what was going on as he saw and heard the Prophet organize the Relief Society, and he understood Joseph's statements that "the Lord has something better for them than a written constitution." That is what the Prophet told Eliza R. Snow when she took to him several articles of incorporation which the sisters had drawn up as a prospective guide for their organization. And_ the Prophet said the Lord had something better for the sisters than a written constitution. SISTERS ORGANIZED UNDER THE PRIESTHOOD And he understood what the Prophet was talking about when he said: I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood.... This Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 14.) John Taylor understood this as few do, and these statements must have had a profound influence, as also did the Prophet's instructions that.. The Society of the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants—to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls. The Prophet also declared to the sisters that they would receive instructions from the order of the priesthood which God _ has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation.... (Jbid., pp. 15-16.) That was the constitution for the Relief Society. And the Prophet further stated that if they needed his instruction, to ask him and he would give it "from time to time." These statements opened to the mind of John Taylor new visions of the role that women were to play in the building of Zion. He fully realized that a society "under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood'— which Priesthood he knew to be the power and the pattern of government by which and under which God himself orders and controls the universe—was indeed "organized according to the law of heaven." He knew that the "something" which the Lord had for the sisters—which would be "better for them than a written constitution" —was the guidance of the living oracles of God— those Priesthood bearers with whom God himself communicates and through whom he directs his work in the earth. Such a constitution, he knew, would give the Relief Society guidance superior to that enjoyed by any other female organization in the earth. THE SPIRIT BORE RECORD We may be assured that no implication of this divine organiAccording to the Law of Heaven zational pattern escaped the keen, well-ordered mind of John Taylor. To him the spirit bore record that it was indeed organized "according to the law of heaven." Surely, in this knowledge, he had reason, and did as he said, rejoice. He had further cause to rejoice in the knowledge that in organizing the Relief Society "according to the law of heaven," the Prophet was taking a major step toward perfecting the organization of the Church. Again, he would have rejoiced in his prophetic vision of the service this great organization was destined to render as it pursued the objectives prescribed by the Prophet—service in extending sustenance to the needy, comfort to the bereaved, and joy to the sorrowing, for This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God _ has planted in your bosoms. (DHC IV: 605.) And, finally, he would have rejoiced as he contemplated the blessings promised to Relief Society sisters by the Prophet in these words: If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. (Ibid., page 605.) All these, and many other considerations, give solemnity and significance to the statement of John Taylor that he "rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of heaven." God bless you, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. 89 I THINK OF BEACHES Light shades are quickening on darker blues, And whitecaps ride upon the building crest Of waves that drench the waiting sand. Then rush away to join a deep unrest. I walk along the beach and swing my arms In metered time with each returning wave. I think of beaches girdling the earth Where these same waters fondle and engrave The sands that wait for their own time, Leaving driftwood and empty shells Then wilfully exchange again Their patterned greetings and farewells. —Pearle M. Olsen The: *¥ Rosa Lee Lloyd m Sadie McGregor awakened with a warm, happy glow in her young heart. This was to be a big day in her ordinary workaday life. It was the day she had planned and prepared for ever since last spring when she had realized that Mrs. Harriet Hollenbeck, for whom she had cleaned house every Saturday for the last ten years, was having a difficult time financially since Mr. Hollenbeck's death a year ago. Mrs. Hollenbeck seemed like the wealthiest of all the women Sadie cleaned for. She was noted for her charities and her work for the blind and her' generous baskets to the underprivileged at oint Sur on the California Coast Photo by Josef Muench Perfect Gift 'Now a tall glass of milk for each of us." === hristmas time. Mrs. Hollenbeck, blond and queenly beautiful, was really Lady Bountiful in Crystal Falls. Sadie couldn't count the lovely things she had given to her over the years since she was nineteen. She sat on the little chintz covered chair near her bed and looked around gratefully at her two-room apartment. She leaned over, touching the flowered bedspread Mrs. Hollenbeck had given to her last Christmas. Her blue eyes misted as they looked at the little carved table that held her television set and the gold vase with the imported artificial roses, the curtains with real lace edging them—all gifts from Mrs. Hollenbeck. Sadie's heart sang with gratitude that now, this very day, she on 2 Bee February 1969 was going to do something special for Mrs. Hollenbeck. This apartment was Sadie's corner of paradise. This was where she came home after the long, hard cleaning days, six days a week every week of the year; this was where she kicked off her sturdy, black shoes and put on those elegant pink slippers with the saucy little bows that her niece, Carolyn, had sent for her birthday with the cute note that said: Wear these, Aunt Sadie, when you want to feel like Cinderella at the ball. And don't quit looking for Prince Charming! Whaat Prince Charming? Sadie thought, with a sigh. Would there ever be a Prince Charming for her, she wondered wistfully? But she did feel a sort of loveliness about her when she wore the slippers. She really did, in spite of her practical mind. She had saved every penny she could to buy the pink flowered housecoat that added more elegance to the slippers. Saving pennies was not easy for Sadie McGregor. There was her rent to pay, food was costing more and more each time she went to market, and there was her nephew Ted to help through college. He could depend on Sadie's check every month the way he could depend that the world would turn on its axis. She had helped her other nephews, Tom, Jack, and Bill through college, and now Ted who was the youngest. And she always saved money for the day when she could not work quite so hard. This morning she put the pink 92 slippers by her big chair, ready for her when she would come home. The flowered housecoat hung nearby in her closert. She knew she was not a glamorous girl, the kind shown in the fashion magazines, but some of the women she _ worked for praised her fresh rosy cheeks and wavy brown hair and told her she was the best cleaning woman in Crystal Falls. I do the best I can with what the Heavenly Father has given to me, she told herself. And, above all, she was grateful for good health and nice people to work for. Especially Mrs. Hollenbeck. She should not have favorites, of course, but who could help loving one person a little more than another when one was so kind and considerate and worth loving? It was exactly nine o'clock when Sadie rang the bell at the Hollenbeck front door. That was another sweet thing about Mrs. Hollenbeck, she always insisted that Sadie enter and leave by the front door. Sadie rang again. No answer. She rang again, then again, lhstening as the chimes echoed through the hallway. Mrs. Hollenbeck must have overslept, Sadie thought, holding back an anxious thought. Where could she be and how could Sadie get in to see if she was all right? "The door is unlocked," a hearty male voice called from the sidewalk. Sadie swung around. A big, ruddy-faced man was getting off a bicycle, leaning it carefully against the rolling lawn, then walked up the pathway toward her. Sadie had the strangest feeling that she had seen him before. He was bareheaded and sunburnt and looked, at the same time, like a man who could plow a field or preach a sermon, doing both with vigor and ability. I is Mrs. Hollenbeck's brother, Dr. Judson Ryan, Sadie thought. She has his picture in her bedroom. I have dusted it many times. He was coming for spring vacation and here it was springtime in Crystal Falls! "You must be Sadie," he said, smiling a big, wide smile that made Sadie smile back. "Harriet told me to let you in at nine o'clock. So I unlocked the front door while I took a whirl around the block waiting for you. She's gone to help with the spring party for the blind children. She will be home before you leave." "You must be her brother, Dr. Judson Ryan," Sadie said. The big man nodded his head. "Tm Dr. Ryan, all right. But I'm not a medical doctor. I'm a veterinarian at the zoo in Bridge City. It's a fine place for me. I love my work, but I don't fly under false colors. So you just call me Dr. Jud the way everyone else does.", He opened the door and Sadie followed him inside. "I'll start in the kitchen," she told him. "Ill get the scrubbing done first, then the dusting and polishing will seem like fun." "That's right!" he agreed. He was looking at her with steady humorous eyes that had little crinkles at the corners. "We have to make fun out of hard work. If we don't we have a sorry time of it. Now Ill be The Perfect Gift off for my morning bicycle ride. Good for the old legs." Sadie heard the front door close, then she took a moment to run to the front window to watch him stride down the walk, get on his bicycle, and ride off into the sunshine. She was thoughtful while scrubbing and waxing the kitchen floor. Mrs. Hollenbeck had three brothers, she remembered. She always shrugged her shoulders when she spoke of Judson. "He's a real character. He never does anything we expect him to do. My parents gave all of us equal opportunity; Harold is president of Abion Incorporated, Charles is an outstanding lawyer, and both have fine families. But Judson!" she had shrugged her shoulders again and an indulgent smile curved her lovely lips. "He loved all the dogs and cats in the neighborhood. He was always bringing home some animal that was hurt and trying to make it well. He could have been a great surgeon, but no, he wanted to be an animal doctor at the zoo. We have all tried to find a wife for him, he's so attractive and lovable. But he told us he would select his own girl. He's the happiest bachelor I know, so who's to say what he should do?" It was almost noon when Sadie finished cleaning the lower level of the house. She stood near the stairway and surveyed her morning's work. Everything was scrubbed and polished and reflected the special touch of love she had given to it on this very special day—Mrs. Hollenbeck's birthday. Sadie decided to eat the luncheon she had brought before she 

93 February 1969

 started the upstairs. She had taken her bologna sandwich and shining red apple from the refrigerator when Dr. Judson came in, looking like a man who has just climbed a mountain. He stood in the kitchen doorway beaming down at her. "A good-sized sandwich and a big red apple—just what I like for my lunch. Now you wait a minute until I fix mine and we'll eat together. No fun eating alone!"' Sadie sat quietly at the table with her hands folded in her lap. She hoped Dr. Jud wouldn't notice that her hands were red and rough and her nails chipped a little. Oh, how she wished she had worn her rubber gloves this morning! She would have liked to offer to make his sandwich, but it seemed wiser just to sit and listen to him talk. After all, eating with her was his idea, and if Mrs. Hollenbeck came home unexpectedly and he was making his own sandwich, she would see it was his idea. "Now a tall glass of milk for each of us," he was saying. As he sat down across the table from her, the clock in the hallway chimed twelve o'clock. Sadie listened to each lovely chime, holding her breath a little, clinging to each magic moment. She was sure no hour ever passed so quickly, no food ever tasted so good, no milk ever looked so white and creamy, and no girl was ever so happily entertained as she was. He told her of Madame Lassa, the lioness, who had just had cubs, and how 94 he worked to save the life of old Mr. Philicus, the huge bear that had lived longer than any bear the zoo ever had. He told her of a trip he planned to Africa as soon as he could arrange it, and of the strange, new animals he would bring home to Bridge City Zoo. This is the way life should be, she kept thinking. This is the way our Heavenly Father has planned things; work and laugh and talk together. Oh, I must not care for him this way, Sadie told herself over and over. I must not be so fascinated with the things he says. He is Mrs. Hollenbeck's brother, and she wouldn't like me to care this way. I am only Sadie, her cleaning woman. She glanced quickly at her wrist watch, then got to her feet. "It's after one!" she gasped. "I must hurry. There's all the upstairs to do!" "Now you take it easy, Sadie." Dr. Jud followed her to the stairway. "You've done a day's work already. What we should do is rent another bicycle and take you out into the country to see the blossoms. They should be coming out by now. How about it? Can you ride?" Sadies' heart beat up into her throat. She could only stand there looking at him. Their eyes caught and held and a sort of wonder passed between them. "I—I have my work to do," she managed. "I promised, Dr. Jud. I wouldn't disappoint Mrs. Hollenbeck for anything." He pretended to scowl at her. "Are you turning me down, Sadie? Don't you want to ride out and see the blossoms with me?" "Oh, I do! I do!" she exclaimed, "but I can't leave my work today." "Tomorrow?" he questioned, holding her eyes with his own. Sadie was unable to answer for the torment in her mind. Oh, Dr. Jud, she thought, you will never know how much I would like to go with you tomorrow. I can ride a bicycle. It would be a day out of heaven for me. But how can I do this to Mrs. Hollenbeck? How can I go out with her own brother? She might be displeased. She might never let me work for her again. CD. Jud seemed to realize the conflict in her mind. "I know," he said, "you think Harriet might not approve." His voice strengthened. "Now you listen to me, Sadie. I am my own man. Always have been. I do what's right and fair to everyone. I have never willingly hurt a living creature in this universe, but when I see a girl with rosy cheeks and eyes as blue and honest as the sky on a clear day, and I can laugh with her and talk with her and the world is suddenly happier because I have met her, I'm not going to listen to anyone who doesn't approve. Not when I feel right in here about it." He tapped his big chest. "You be ready about six in the morning," he added, and his voice was almost convincing. "I'll be over with the bicycles and our luncheon." He turned abruptly and strode out of the front door. Sadie stood completely still for a long breathless moment. He's strong, she thought, over a catchy little sigh. And he's The Perfect Gift good and he's my idea of she whispered the last words in her secret heart as she turned and ran up the stairway. Oh, Mrs. Hollenbeck, she thought, as she moved the furniture and ran the vacuum over the beautiful green carpet, please try to understand. Please be kind about this. I don't want to intrude into your life. I know how proud you are. [ didn't try to win your brother. I was only being myself, Sadie McGregor, who would work her fingers to the bone for you! Sadie worked without a pause until five o'clock. Everything in the house glistened in the soft afternoon sunshine _ glinting through the windows. She sat on the gold and white bench in the front hallway holding her purse on her lap as she waited for Mrs. Hollenbeck. It held the precious note she had taken almost a week to write. It had to say just the right words. Dear Mrs. Hollenbeck: I wanted to give you something to let you know how much I admire you and appreciate you and always will. My gift is my seven hours work today. I have polished everything extra special and my heart and my love come with my gift. Yours truly Sadie McGregor Her head came up as she heard Mrs. Hollenbeck's:-car. In the driveway. She took: the envelope from her purse and» got to her feet. A. Glad, warm happiness flowed through her, easing her tired body. This was the moment she had planned for. Mrs. Hollenbeck rang the bell and Sadie had the door open bee: fore the chimes faded away. "Hello, Sadie," she said cor- 

95 February 1969

 dially as she took the scarf from her lovely blond hair. "What a day! What a lot of people to look after. My, everything looks so clean and beautiful. What would I do without you, Sadie?" Her eyes went over everything approvingly, then came back to Sadie. She opened her purse and took out a ten dollar bill and two one dollar bills. "A little extra tip today, Sadie," she smiled, handing them to her. Sadie took the bills and with a swift gesture she put them in the envelope with her note. Then she handed it to Mrs. Hollenbeck, watching her with shining, expectant eyes. Mrs. Hollenbeck opened the envelope, glanced questioningly at Sadie, then read the note. Sadie waited for her face to brighten into a smile. She waited tremulously, for the touch of her hand, for the sweet words of appreciation she had dreamed of hearing. Instead, Mrs. Hollenbeck's face was a carved mask. She put the bills in the envelope and handed it back to Sadie. "I can't," she said. "I can't let you do this, Sadie. A whole day's work!" Her voice was gracious and kind as always and she was smiling, but Sadie felt suddenly freezing cold as though she had walked headfirst into an icy wind. She shivered. "I can't let you do this," Mrs. Hollenbeck repeated. "It wouldn't —be right." Without a word Sadie put the envelope into her purse and walked out into the chilly April twilight. 96 She generally took the bus home after a long day's work, but tonight she held her coat tightly around her and walked toward her apartment seven blocks away. She bit her lip to keep it from trembling and she held back the tears; but they stung her eyes and spilled over on her cheeks, in spite of her determination not to cry. There was no reason for her to cry because she had done nothing wrong, she told herself, lifting her head as her chin squared off. Heavenly Father knew she had meant no disrespect to Mrs. Hollenbeck. She had given what she had to give with her heart's love, and, somehow, she knew it was right and she refused to cry about something that was good. She walked the seven blocks to her apartment with her chin as firm and her heart as convinced as any of her Scotch ancestors who had sailed the seas or pioneered this valley. She was bone weary and very hungry, as she unlocked the door and turned on the lights. She would boil a potato, fry a steak, and make a fresh green salad with crispy little onions on top. But first, she decided with a determined smile, she would put on her pink slippers with the little bows and wear her bright flowered housecoat she had been saving for a special day. A special day, she repeated, feeling like a wounded animal, hurting deep inside. Life had to go on, she had learned when she had lost her parents when she was only nineteen, and you had to cling to the good things that happened to you until the dark, ugly shadows faded away. The good things, she whispered to herself, like meeting Dr. Jud. Even if she never saw him again, still, just meeting him had made it a very special day. She had barely stepped into her pink slippers and buttoned her housecoat when the door bell rang. Sadie stood very still wondering who would call at dinnertime. Here she was all prettied up in her pink outfit. Would they be surprised! Then she shrugged her shoulders and opened the door. Mrs. Hollenbeck stood there, with her lovely hair looking as though she had been riding in the wind without her head scarf. Her eyes were brimming with tears and her cheeks were streaked. "Sadie " She put her hands out as though reaching for courage. Sadie took them in both her own and pulled her gently inside. "I've come—for the gift you 33 gave me The Perfect Gift Mrs. Hollenbeck's voice stumbled and Sadie bent her head to hear her. "I've come to tell you how—how wrong I was. How ungracious. Please—forgive me.' She covered her face with her hands, and Sadie put her strong young arms around her and held her until she could control her tears. "My brother Jud told me many things, Sadie. Jud never minces words. He said I hadn't given as much in my whole lifetime as you had offered me tonight. He said—I had to learn to be a gracious receiver as well as a gracious giver. Then he reminded me of a poet that our mother always quoted: 'Who gives of himself feeds three, himself, his hungering neighbor and me." S adie could not speak for the hot lump in her throat. That bit of poetry said everything to her. She wished she knew more about poetry, but she had been so busy earning a living and keeping her own apartment, there hadn't been much time for poetry; but from this minute on she would take time to learn more about poems and what the poets meant as Dr. Jud did. Mrs. Hollenbeck wiped her cheeks with a dainty lace handkerchief. "I'm here, Sadie, to tell you I will gladly accept your gift. It is one of the dearest gifts ever offered to me." Sadie walked to the table, opened her purse and took out the envelope. "Thank you, dear," Mrs. Hollenbeck said as she took it. Her voice was gracious and charming again and her shoulders didn't 

97 February 1969

 droop any more. She smoothed her hair back into place. Then her eyes went over Sadie, head to toes as though looking at her for the-first time. She gazed a long moment at Sadie's pink slippers with the gay little bows. Her eyes went over the flowered housecoat again, then up to her curly brown hair. Sadie's cheeks pinked up and she looked like a girl in her teens. Mrs. Hollenbeck's eyes had a bright warm glow that erased the hurt in Sadie's heart. "T can see what Jud means," she said at last. "He told me he had found a girl with roses in her cheeks, dreams in her eyes, and a heart as honest as the Rocky Mountains." Mrs. Hollenbeck's lips quirked. "Sometimes Jud gets his poetry mixed up with the practical. But I know what he meant." She turned toward the door, then she faced Sadie again. "Whatever happens, Sadie, between you and Jud—remember —you both have my blessing." She closed the door gently behind her. Sadie leaned back against it breathing a little prayer. Then she looked. Down at her pink slippers. 'There really is a_ Prince Charming for every girl, she thought as she danced toward the kitchen. There really is! She must write to her niece and thank her for the slippers.