on their four hundred years of "bondage" to the Egyptians. Towards the end of this period their burdens became unbearable, so much so that they cried to the God of their fathers for deliverance. Jehovah heard their prayers and set them free. Through a rapid succession of events  the birth and rise of Moses, the revelations of the Lord to him, the plagues upon their oppressors, and their flight from the Nile banks  the children of Israel escaped beyond the power of the enemy into the wilderness. Their wanderings in the wilderness continued till almost every man died, who had come out of Egypt, and a new generation had grown up. Moses, "the most exalted figure in the ancient world." was their leader in both temporal and spiritual matters. Meantime they had dissensions within their ranks and fierce battles with their enemies without. The generation of Israelites that came out of Egypt is often characterized in the biblical narrative as "stiff-necked." And they were  if we are to judge by their actions. Even Moses, one of the meekest of men, at times became impatient with them, and gave them the rebukes they richly deserved. This stiff-neckedness it was that impelled the Lord to "cut off" the generation that crossed the Red sea. As for the opposition the Israelites encountered from the tribes along the way, the chosen people were generally successful in battle. On the death of Moses, Joshua took command of the Israelites, and led them presently into the land of Canaan, which he conquered divided off for them. their "inheritance and possession" and which he After Joshua had "taken the Promised Land" and given it to the children of Israel, there were still many Canaanites left in cities here and there in the "inheritance" of certain tribes. These were "left by the Lord," we are told, "to prove Israel by them." The tribe of Benjamin, for instance, "did not drive out the Jebusites, nor Manasseh the inhabitants of Beth-shean and her towns;" and this same statement is made by the sacred historian concerning the tribes of Ephraim, Zebulun, Asher, and Naphtali. And hereby hangs a tale. For whenever the Israelites left off serving the Lord for a time, as they did at frequent intervals during these years, these Canaanitish people became a source of great trouble to them. "I will not drive them out from before you," said the Lord, referring to the first inhabitants of the land, "but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you." During the leadership of Joshua, the Israelites "served the Lord all his days." But when that generation "were gathered unto their fathers" and when another arose "which knew not the Lord nor yet the works which he had done for Israel," they "did evil in the sight of the Lord, and served Baalim. And they forsook the Lord God of their fathers, which brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, the gods of the people that were round about them." They were brought back to the service of the Lord only through suffering and bondage  as who is not? Sometimes their deliverance was wrought through the treachery of one of their number, as in the case of Ehud, who "made him a dagger which had two edges, of a cubit length," who "did gird it under his raiment upon his right thigh," who thereupon went on a personal visit to Eglon, "a very fat man" and the king of Israel's oppressors, and who "put forth his left hand and took the dagger from his right thigh and thrust it into the king," blade and haft and all, till the king was dead. Sometimes this deliverance was wrought out by means of the direct valor of such persons as Barak and Deborah, who with ten thousand men of war wrested the freedom of their people from the hands of those who oppressed them. Josephus has a passage concerning this very time which allows us to look at the general condition of the Israelites during one of these lapses. "The Israelites grew so indolent and unready of taking pains," he says, "that misfortunes came heavier upon them, which also proceeded in part from their contempt of the divine worship; for when they had once fallen off from the regularity of their political government, they indulged themselves 
 further in living according to their own pleasure, and according to their own will, till they were full of the evil doings that were common among the Canaanites. God therefore was angry with them and they lost that happy state which they had obtained by their innumerable labors, by their luxury; for when Chusan, king of the Assyrians, had made war against them, they lost many of their soldiers in the battle, and when they were besieged, they were taken by force; nay, there were some who, out of fear, voluntarily submitted to him, and though the tribute laid upon them was more than they could bear, yet did they pay it, and underwent all sort of oppression for eight years." The plain truth, however, is that the temptation to forsake the worship of the true God for that of the gods served all around them was very great, considering that human nature is as it is. The religious rites of the Israelites were extremely strict, and there were many of them. The command respecting the observance of the Sabbath, for instance, allowed, if not directed, the toning of any one who broke this law. Jehovah was "a jealous God." On the other hand, the worship of the heathen nations in Palestine, although strict in some of its requirements, made a powerful appeal to the natural indolence of human nature. And this appeal to the Israelites was the greater because they had no king and the splendors of kingship, while the heathen nations had both. Then, too, whereas the Israelites were apparently "intolerant," these other peoples' worship permitted other gods than their own. QUESTIONS. 1. What two periods are involved in this lesson? 2. What happened to Israel after the death of Rachel? fnmily?3. Who was Joseph? What did he do for his father's 4. What difference existed between the Israelites and their neighbors? What is the significance of these? 5. What happened to Israel after the death of Joshua? How do. you account for the success of Joshua in keeping his people true? 6. Why did the Israelites so often fall away from the true worship? In this respect compare them with the Nephites on this continent. 7. What conditions do we have today, if any, that are similar to those of the Israelites at this time? Note: We recommend our students to buy Smith's Old Testament History, $1.50, Deseret Sunday School Book Store or Deseret News.