[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT. | Author: Unknown]

		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
			WOODRUFF STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
at Diamondville July 8, 1909, Stake Presi-
dent Sara Tyson presiding. Visitors from
the General Board Sisters Susan Grant and
Minerva E. Knowlton, president Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake. Stake President Ty-
son was glad to meet the sisters, felt hon-
ored at the reception given, knew that we
would have a good time and drink in the
good spirit, spoke at length on fault-finding,
humility and love.
	President Lizzie Palmer, of Cumberland,
gave a good report. President Christina
Wall, of Lyman, President Nina Wright of
Kemmerer, gave good reports, all felt well.
	Stake President S. Tyson said there would
not be any report from Rock Springs, but
had visited there lately; found that the pres-
dent had moved to Ogden and the society
disorganized, but they had done a good
work in the past. Reported Evanston as
doing a grand work in the Relief Society. It
is a labor of love with them.
	Sister Susan Grant enjoyed this beautiful
morning in meeting with the sisters and
Latter-day Saints, encouraged the young
sisters to attend the Relief Society, also the
boys should learn something about this
grand organization. Spoke at length on

[Column 2]
prayer in the home, and how it should be
attended to in the family, said we learn to
do by doing and the more we do in the
Relief Society, the more we want to, we
should be brave and united and encourage
each other to good works, get the Spirit of
tha Lord and keep it, prayed the Lord to
bless all.
	Sister M. E. Knowlton took pleasure in
her labors in the Church. Thought there
was too much worldly pleasure, there were a
great many more good girls than there were
boys. The Gospel and our families were
the most precious things to us, felt honored
to visit with Sister Grant and talk to the sis-
ters, wished the house was full, she appre-
ciated her position and the work she had to
do, always wanted to be a worker in the
Church and progress with it, spoke on the
word of wisdom, and the necessity of living
it. Encouraged the sisters to be charitable
to each other and love one another.
	Brother Henry Voss of Lyman was glad
to hear the instructions given by the sisters
spoke of the parents class, thought singing
and prayer in the home was a great privil-
ege.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session of Relief Society con-
ference. After the usual exercises, Stake
President S. Tyson said we had had an ex-
cellent time this morning, and the Lord was
with us just as much in these days as He
ever was.
	Stake Counselor Alice Jackson said that
through faith we could draw out from the
speaker what we most wish to hear. She
had many testimonies of the Gospel and
wished to hold fast the good work, urged the
sisters to perform their part and not waste
their opportunities to do good, prayed the
Lord to bless the sisters here.
	Sister Susan Grant spoke upon the bless-
ings of the Gospel, enjoyed her visits to this
stake of Zion and the association of the
noble sisters she met; had the privilege of
knowing the Prophet Joseph Smith, wished
to impress it upon the minds of the young
people here, and we should look for good-
ness and not find fault. Spoke at length on
the principle of faith and its results, wanted
to live a long and useful life in the Church;
read a pamphlet on the Nurses Class given
through the Relief Society, wished to bless
and encourage the sisters in the great work
of relief.
	Sister M. E. Knowlton said she wished
with all her heart that she might be the
mother of missionaries, we had enjoyed a
good time in this conference, said faith was
the gift of God, there were times when we
were sorely tried, and sometimes blessings
are given to us that we do not understand.
Spoke of charity for each other and of the
tendency of women to refuse motherhood, a
mother’s mission is the greatest mission we
can have, the Lord will bless the faithful
mothers. May we increase in faith and
love for one another.
	Brother Hyrum B. Perry spoke upon the
power of faith and love.
	Brother Alvin Jackson, missionary,
thought a great deal had been said that
would make us better men and women; said
woman can make a heaven on earth if she
puts forth her best efiorts. He had been
blessed in this new mission field.
	President S. Tyson made a few closing
remarks and blessed the sisters in their la-
bors of love.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Benediction by Brother Henry
Voss.			KATE EPPICH, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
