Centennial Conversation," This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1923, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to in-crease appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of po-etic verse. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by of theirs except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were sixty-six poems sub-mitted in t his year's contest, entries coming from many of the states, as well as from several foreign countries. Many of the poems were written on the suggested subject, the Utah Centennial. Of the three winners, one had not previously placed in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem contests. The General Board congratulates the prize winners, and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes, also, to thank the three judges and all who assisted, for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The efforts of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs of the prize winning contestants, are published here-with. Prize-Winning Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest ETHEL NEWMAN ECCLES First Prize Poem Our Hands Our Heads In Thine Ethel Newman Eccles Inspiration Only a thread across the desert sands, A twining thread, held by the Master's hands; Taut at the time when check was needed there, Unleashed again and free as the heaven-sent air. Unleashed, for well God knew this sturdy band, Whose footsteps he had turned toward desert sand. Hand-picked from all humanity's great store  Weighed in the balance; you could not ask for more. He knew their trials, and yet he knew their power; Pledged as they were to make each changing hour A hallowed part, to firmly plant anew Christ's Church, revealed in latter day and true. Page 9  Dedication "This is the Place" the leader raised his hands, The challenge of the mountains or the sands To this small band of weary pioneers; God help them see the future in the years. "And it shall truly blossom as the rose," And lo, it did, and so the story goes: Great homes were builded well, with mountains 'round, Irrigation, too, to wet the thirsty ground; And temple spires in majesty rose high To link the holiness with azure sky; And government became integral part, And schools and colleges and cultural art. All these and all that makes humanity Unchained from lower life on land and sea, Unfolded there with every passing hour, Man's will upheld by God's majestic power. By Faith We Walk What now? A hundred precious years gone by. In gratitude, with dauntless heads held high, We face the future with its atom fear, And pray, dear God, that thou art ever near; So near that thou wilt touch us with thy power And give us courage through each changing hour  Our heritage from pioneers before. Hold thou our hands as we pass on through the door Into that age that no man dares to think  There is no turning; we are at the brink. So may we face it without torturing fear,