Our hands in thine, dear Lord, again we pioneer. Ethel Newman Eccles, a native of Salt Lake City, now living in Ohio, was awarded first prize in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1944, for her story "Rock Roses of Nazareth." This is her first appearance as a winner in the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contests. She has for some time been writing poetry, prose, and fiction. Her early work was published in the Gold and Blue, a Latter-day Saint high school periodical, and later in Playground, issued by the playground system of Washington, D. C. She was at one time a special reporter for The Deseret News, with a column in each Saturday edition. She is an active Relief Society worker, has been president of the North Ohio District Relief Society of the Northern States Mission, and is now president of the Cleveland Branch Relief Society. Her husband is Parley P. Eccles. There are two children, a daughter, Mrs. Van M. Smith, of Washington, D. C., and a fourteen-year-old son, Parley Eccles, Jr. Mrs. Eccles also has two small grandchildren. PRIZE-WINNING POEMS   EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD Second Prize Poem Release From: the South Seas Eva Willes Wangsgaard I I'm going home to trees unleafed, each bud Hooded from cold, clean limbs that web the sky; And when the wintry down escapes and whirls, My long heart hunger will be fed by storm. Ain-rivered skies, farewell. Again I'll know Fine-needled balsams feathered white with snow.  II I'll see the spring creep back through lilac buds And smell brown furrows fresh from snow's retreat; The ivory-petaled cherry's fragrant suds Will vie with peach tree coral, cool and sweet. The tall, clean tulip stems will speak of lands Fertile, but frugal as my grandsire's thumb; I'll warm a snow-damp clod in grateful hands, And kneel in bluebells till the kind tears come. Some day, shut-eyed, I'll view this tropic isle, Bathed in warm rain, and be a little fond Of leaves too lush and hues too loud, and smile At endless waves and all that lies beyond. Tonight, my heart resents the hours between Me and my home, where wand-slim aspens lean. Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, is the author of three books of poetry: Singing Hearts, Down This Road, and After the Blossoming. One of the best-known literary women of the West, Mrs. Wangsgaard has had her poems published in many magazines and newspapers of national circulation, including the Saturday Evening Post, the New York Times, Washington Post, and in such poetry magazines as Wings, Spirit, and the Florida Magazine of Verse. She has won first place in several national poetry contests, and has four times received the award in the Deseret News Christmas Poem Contest. Mrs. Wangsgaard has placed four times in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest: 1939, 1942, 1946, and 1947. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, and of the Sonneteers. Mrs. Wangsgaard, the mother of three children, has several grandchildren. Her oldest son, a lieutenant, served in the Pacific area during the war. The poem "Release From the South Seas'' is woven around the homing thoughts of this son. Miranda Snow Walton was born in 1900, in the Bear River country, Wyoming, a daughter of Henry Brooks Snow and Anna Danielson Forbes. Writing poetry has, for many years, been a great joy to Mrs. Walton. In addition to the Latter-day Saint Church publications, her work has appeared in Railroad Magazine, the Utah Magazine, Our Army, The Vet, some twenty-five poetry magazines, and five anthologies. Mrs. Walton is the mother of a daughter Vivian (Mrs. Delbert Owens), and two sons, Jack and Claude Walton, who were the fourth generation on one line, and the fifth on another, to serve their country in the armed forces. Mrs. Walton, now a resident of Salt Lake City, is interested in writing about the Bear River Valley, in poetry and fiction. PRIZE-WINNING POEMS if MIRANDA SNOW WALTON Third Prize Poem Centennial Conversation Miranda Snow Walton A Great-Granddaughter Speaks: Great-Grandmother Ann, were you sad that day In the long, long ago, when you sailed away From your home in a land far over the sea? Did your young heart harbor perplexity? Did you face your future in doubt and fear, As your great-granddaughter is doing here? Of what did you dream in this alien land, As your tired feet plodded through sage and sand? You could not have visioned the things I know When you entered this valley so long ago, This Inland Empire, where temples raise 3 Their arms in rejoicing at heaven's ways; You could not see then, as I do today, The gold of the grainfields, the orchards gay; The cities that lie on the valley's breast, Each one a jewel that God's hand has caressed; Then, what was the vision that made you strong, What dream gave you courage to journey on? The Great-Grandmother Answers: Great-Granddaughter Ann, the dream I had Was a simple one, and it made me glad; Though I knew the heartbreak of goodbye tears, It banished my doubts, and dispelled my fears. I dreamed of a home in a peaceful place, Of a good man's love, and a baby's face. My home was a dugout where wild sage grew, But our love was there, and my dream was true. Oh, child of my grandson, resolve this day To set your feet on your rightful way: No matter what struggle a true love brings, Hold fast to the good and the simple things, A home where no evil nor hate abide; Keep faith, and virtue, and truth inside; Hold love as a treasure that has no price, And a baby's laughter as paradise; Do your woman's work in this world of woe, For out of such things great empires grow. Se It should be satisfactory evidence that you are in the path of life, if you love God and your brethren with all your hearts. You may see, or think you see, a thousand faults in your brethren; yet they are organized as you are; they are flesh of your flesh, bone of your bone; they are of your Father who is in heaven; we are all His children, and should be satisfied with each other as far as possible. The main difficulty in the hearts of those who are dissatisfied is, they are not satisfied with themselves (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 271).