The Return." The second prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Rhea Smith, 181 East Gregson Avenue, Salt Lake City, for her story "Cast Thy Burdens." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Olive Maiben Nicholes, 240 East 2nd North, Provo, Utah, for her story "The Sound of Bugles." This short story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by the editor of a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1947. Twenty-two manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1946. None of the prize winners for this year had previously placed in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest. This contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity will continue to increase the literary quality of Theand will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Thenow has a circulation of nearly eighty thousand. 'There are subscribers in every state of the Union, and in many foreign countries, thus providing a varied and interested group of readers. Writers, recognizing this large and appreciative audience, realize the importance of entering in the contest their very best work. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the three judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. 'The General Board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Page 15 Prize Winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest First Prize Story The Return Margery S. Stewart ALT Lake City!" someone said. Paula opened her eyes and sat up. She peered down through the windows of the plane. How the town had grown, almost up to Saint Mary's, and right up to the mouth of Parley's. "It's incredible!" she said aloud. Had she changed as much in ten years? She took out her compact. Her cleverly painted mouth quirked wisely at one corner. "You're charming," her mouth said. Her eyes gazed narrowly at her unlined, clear skinned face. Naturally, at forty-two, one couldn't hope to look twenty-two, but she was doing very well. She pulled the Lille Dache beret to a more rakish slant, brushed the shoulders of her Valentina suit. Sally would be wide-eyed at the sight of a Valentina suit. Paula obeyed the order to fasten the safety belt, and slumped back in her chair. The familiar irritation, indecision, and misery settled upon her. Why had she come? Just for the fun of surprising Sally? To dazzle her with the names of great people? Or to crawl into this corner of nowhere and lick her wounds? "I shall lie down to bleed awhile, then rise and fight again," she quoted wryly to herself. She reached for the brief case at her feet. She put it Page 16 MARGERY S. STEWART in her lap, and let her hands lie on it, crossed, like little swords. Which is really what they are, she reflected, because very soon, they are going to open this brief case, and very neatly destroy a woman's hopes, plans, and dreams. What a fool the girl was to give me her advertising ideas. Did she really believe me naive enough to take them in to Mr. Hanover? It would be just like asking me to put my neck in a noose. One look at her work, and mine and me with it, would be tossed out the window. THE RETURN Couldn't she guess what my job means to me? She smoothed the brief case. I've got to do it. A few changes... My name on it, and an end to the long nightmare about someone newer and younger supplanting me. She closed her hands over the safety belt, as the plane landed. Slipping into her fur coat, she followed the other passengers into the biting, snowy afternoon. She found a cab and gave Sally's address. Sally had moved since the last time... To a larger place, Paula hoped. She shuddered, remembering the last time, ten years ago, when she and Sally had tried to renew their friendship over the shrieks of little girls, and the stamping, mischievous feet of little boys. Six children! Paula's mouth tightened. It was a sin and a shame, and nobody's fault but Sally's. Such a waste of Sally's marvelous mind and unbelievable energy. She could have been a greater success than I, by far, Paula reflected. She could have had the world under her little pink thumb, and she threw it all away for some perfectly mad idea on religion.: SHE sat stiffly, watching the familiar streets unroll. South Temple Street. How many times she and Sally had walked under these trees in the spring, half delirious from the smell of lilacs and rain-wet leaves, and their own marvelous dreams. Why, it was right here on South Temple Street, in the fall of the year, that Sally had told her about Don and their marriage plans. Paula remembered, as though it were yesterday, her own sick fury and disappointment. "But you told 17 me you were going to New York with me. Oh, Sally, you can't marry Don. He's just a dumb Mormon boy, whose highest ambition is to have a family of twelve kids and send them. All on missions." Sally had laughed. "You make it sound so dull. What a thrill twelve children will be." She added soberly, "The missions, too. I..1. Guess I've always felt this way. The career business was just 'a foolish dream." "No!" Paula had cried, turning to shake Sally. "Don't you see? It's all that matters. We'll climb right up to the top. We'll have money and clothes, gorgeous clothes. Weill meet the most fascinating people..." Sally said softly, "Listen to me, Paula." Her lovely eyes were misted with shyness. She faltered for a moment. "In Sunday School they tell us sometimes about the... The still small voice?" "Oh, sure, sure, I know." Sally touched her breast lightly. "In-here, there is something that tells me it's right and good to stay and marry Don. Even though everything cries out to go with you, the small voice says, 'Stay'." For a brief instant Paula had hesitated, "I know," she said, half laughing, half in tears. "I have it, too, telling me to stay and marry Joe." "Darling!" Sally flung her arms around Paula. "You told me you would. Oh, let's have a double wedding." "No." Paula had stepped out of the circle of Sally's arms. "No. I'm not going to get caught like that. Not like your mother and mine, and all the women who let love and religion rule their lives. You can come with me or stay. It's up to you." 18 Sallv's fingers had dug fiercely into the pockets of her polo coat. Paula could remember still the outline of them, against the brown cloth. "I guess I've got to stay, Paula." "Okay, chum. I'm leaving next Tuesday night. Dad's giving me five hundred dollars for my twentieth birthday." "But Joe? What about him?" Paula had kicked a stone out of her path. "Joe? Joe will have to find someone else.. So will I." But in all the twenty-three years between, there hadn't been anyone like Joe. PAULA looked around her. The neighborhood was very good. Don must be doing a little better. Well, he needed to. Sally had looked terrible ten years ago, just terrible. Her face, drawn and haggard with fatigue, her hands like a washwoman's. Her feet, in their flat, sensible shoes, had run endlessly on household errands. In her arms, Paula remembered, she had seemed to hold constantly, a wailing, teething baby. Paula regarded the tips of her trim alligator pumps. "I shouldn't have come. I'll wire and have them call me back." ""Here's your address, lady." Paula looked out. "But it's lovely...1 never dreamed..." She paid the driver and walked before him up the winding, neatly swept path. She climbed the shallow steps of the brick terrace and rang the bell. The door was flung open by a young and amazingly lovely girl. Paula had a swift impression of dark blue eyes in a heart-shaped, eager face, of very white teeth that flashed welcomingly. "Hello," she said. Hen her eyes grew wide. "It can't be!" she breathed. "Aunt Paula, how perfectly wonderful. Come in! Mother will be so thrilled." The warmth of the girl's welcome reached deep into Paula. "You know me?" "Know you?" The girl reached out slim brown hands and drew her into the great hall. "Your picture is in my room. I'm going to be just like you. Oh, Mother..." Sally came into the hall. Paula stared at her, disbelief and a dismayed envy warring within her. Sally was radiantly beautiful, more so than she had ever been as a girl. The new upsweep was enormously becoming to her small face. "Paula!" she cried, "Paula!" and ran forward with arms outstretched. Paula lifted her face from Sally's shoulder and saw her reflection in the hall mirror. But I look so sharp, she thought, in bewilderment, so sharp and clever. There is no softness anywhere. She held Sally out before her. "Let me look at you, angel. You look wonderful. I love your house." She turned her head as a sudden burst of laughter tumbled from the living room. "Guests?" Sally laughed. "Just my family. Come and meet them all over again." She put her arms around the girl who was standing wide-eyed beside them. "This is Louise, she was nine when you saw her last, ten years ago." This lovely creature, the skinny little girl in glasses and braces? It couldn't be! Louise seemed to read _ her thoughts. "Wasn't I revolting? Mom worried about my matrimonial chances." THE RETURN Her mother gave her a hug. "You were a charming child." She led Paula into the large, battered, but lovely living room. Three young men rose swiftly to their feet. Paula gasped in sheer admiration. "Sally! You certainly cornered the market. I never saw such handsome children." a Sally laughed. "Time helps. You weren't too impressed the first time you saw them, remember?" She introduced them. "This tall, redheaded young man is Don, Junior. He's leaving for a mission next month. He just received his call." Dimly, as from down a long corridor, Paula heard a younger Sally say, "It will be a thrill, sending them on missions." "And these are the twins, Phillip, he's going to be a doctor, and Ste. Phen, he can make a car out of an old spool and a piece of wire, I do believe." They smiled at her from young, gay faces, impressed, Paula could tell, by the tales they'd heard about her. She shook hands with them gravely. Sally's sons! These tall young men were bone of her bone and flesh of her flesh. No wonder Sally's face held that deep contentment. Paula shivered. Instantly the family sprang into action. The boys stirred the fire. Sally forced her into a wing-backed chair. Louise brought a footstool. "You look so tired, Paula. You must rest here." "Mother!" A girl of ten catapulted into the room. "Guess what? I get the lead in the Primary play. Isn't it supreme!" An older boy trotted dejectedly after her. "I gotta be in it, too. 1 19 gotta be somethin' awful like an old prince." Paula looked up at the children. They looked like Sally. "I used to go to Primary all the time, with your mother. Once I was the lead in the play. What do they do these days?" She curled her lip. "The same thing, I suppose." "We're studying about the Centennial. We're making decorations for it." "The Centennial. Once that would have thrilled me," she mused aloud. "I never think about Mormonism any more. Too busy." "It's been our life," Sally said simply, as she knelt to place another log on the fire. She sat back on her heels. "Tell us about New York. Every single thing." Paula couldn't remember when she'd had an audience like this, so eager, so delighted with the anecdotes of people she knew. The moments flew by, until suddenly it was dusk and a car was turning into the driveway. "It's Don, and I haven't started dinner." Sally sprang up in pretty dismay. Don came in. He was grayer and heavier, but time had carved all his wrinkles into laughter lines and put a twinkle in his eye. "Welcome, welcome, my dear. We've hoped for a long time for this visit." To her amazement, tears thickened her throat, "Why why thanks, Don. I'm so very glad to be here." LONE in the little room Sally had given her, Paula lay face down on the bed. She felt so old, so tired, so finished. But I can't be old. She sat up. Sally and I are the same age, and no one could call Sally old. But why do I have this desolate feeling that I'm standing outside in the cold, looking in on warmth and laughter? She got up and began to rub cold cream vigorously into her skin. Come, come Paula, you'll feel differently after a day or two of rest. When you hear the squabble and watch Sally try to do a hundred things at once. She dressed swiftly and reached for her brief case. She could be working on that advertisement while she waited to be called down for dinner. She spread the copy on the dressing table. Louise came for her, lovelier than ever in a black velveteen suit. "I'm going out after dinner.... His name is Mark. He's really super." She came and leaned over Paula's shoulder, and read the copy with young, delighted eyes. "Aunt Paula! No wonder you've gone so far! Why this is wonderful! I can't rest until I try the lipstick. The whole idea is just scrumptious!" Paula felt the hot color sweep up from her throat. "I'm... I'm glad you like it, child." "Like it? I'm mad about it. You're wonderful." She pulled Paula's hand. "We meet early... For family prayers. Are you ready?" "Family prayers?" Paula bit her lip before it could say, "How quaint." They knelt, each one at his chair. Paula looked at their bowed heads in the brief instant before she, too, dropped to her knees. A phrase she had almost forgotten, leaped to her mind. "... Bring forth their fruit with patience " Now who had said that?" Don bowed his head, his voice was quiet ar. D sure. "... We thank thee for health and strength, food and shelter... The privilege of serving thee... For thy love which has shielded us from harm. We thank thee for the guest in our house and ask thee to bless her with the blessings. Thou knowest she needs this day." There was more of the prayer, but Paula did not hear. A prayer had been prayed for her to the Lord she had forgotten. It was clear to her, suddenly. Terrible in its clarity. 'The Word stood. The Word was Truth. Clever people, gay people, wicked people, foolish people could deny it. But the Word stood. Sally and Don had known it. They had given their lives to it and "brought forth fruit with patience." She had given her life to the things of this world, and she held the empty years of the past and the empty years of the future as her portion. The knowledge seared like fire, deeper and deeper, a pain no tears could assuage. Numbly, she rose when the others rose, and ate and talked and smiled. She tried to warm her icy heart in the fire of the children's admiration. And respect. Lovise's young man came. She brought him to Paula to be introduced. They made a _ charming couple, so clean, so young. Love made Mark's face miserable and ecstatic all at once. It reminded Paula of Joe's face of many years ago. | can't endure much more. She thought. I must go back. But they had planned so many things for her pleasure. A skiing trip, where she met Joe and his three sons. She watched the boys and their father. They might have been THE RETURN my sons, she thought, and turned heavily away. "You're so white," Sally said anxiously, "Don't you feel well?" "Wonderful," Paula lied. "It's this mountain air." She found herself skiing with Don Junior. Plodding up the white slopes, she asked him, "Since you're practically in the mission field you ought to know a thing or two about religion." "Like what?". She liked his young, grave smile. "A phrase has been bothering me..   'Bring forth fruit with patience.' Now, where did I hear it?" "The Savior said it when he told the parable of the seeds, remember? The seeds that fell on stony soil, and some in thorns, and then the seed that fell. On good ground, and the man out of the honesty of his heart brought forth good fruit with patience." "T see. Thank you, Don." They were in the living room that evening, talking over the day's adventures. The phone rang. "It's for you, Louise." Sally came back, "It's Mark." Louise's pretty face grew pinched. "Please tell him I'm not in." Sally did so, reluctantly. When she returned, there was distress in her eyes. "Louise, what's happened between you. I thought... We hoped... He's such a fine boy... So in love with you." Louise set her chin stubbornly. "I know he's wonderful and nice and madly in love with me. But I'm not going to marry him." "Why not, dear?" There was disappointment and concern in Sally's voice. Paula heard it. She looked sharply 2) at Louise. there was something so familiar about all this. "Because," Louise said quietly, "I'm going back to New York with Aunt Paula... If she'll let me. I've decided I'd rather have a career than anything else in the world." Joy leaped in Paula's heart. How wonderful it would be to have Louise with her in that cold, lonely apartment. She could give her so much... Such marvelous contacts. "A career?" Don said carefully. "Are you sure, Louise?" Louise flushed. She lifted her chin. "Oh, I do have a war on inside me; the still small voice is raising the roof... But I won't do it. I won't have a life like Mom's. Hard work - ++ Worry... A lot of children. | want glamour in my life... Like Aunt Paula's." Paula sat still as stone. Oh, no! Not her life for Louise. Not the glitter that is forgotten in a day, and the husks to hold in the cold years, the lost years, the unfruitful years. She said softly, "You think I am a success?" "Oh, yes," Louise breathed, "I know you are." "I�m glad to hear you say that, because I have given a great deal to it. The man I loved, for instance, the children I might have had, the home I might have made, the Church that would have fed my soul...." "But you've met such wonderful people! Not like the ones here." Paula nodded. "You are quite right. Very clever people, and if I'm clever too, they will continue to be my friends. But they won't come running over with a lemon pie if I'm ill, or to borrow a cup of sugar, and to tell me about Jimmie's school marks, or to give me a recipe for chili sauce. I have a Picasso," she added slowly, "But I have no child. If you only knew at twenty how important a child will be to you, when you are forty." Louise's lower lip trembled mutinously, "You don't want me. That's why you're saying these things. What about your job? Isn't that enough?" There was one more thing she could say. Paula shrank from it. It's all I have left, Sally's children's love and respect. I won't lose that, too. But the still small voice said clearly, "You must, Paula." She heard it with joy and with sorrow. She held her head very high. "Yes, my job. It means a great deal to me, so much that I would do anything to keep it." "I knew it," Louise cried. "I knew you loved it more than all these things you've been telling me about." "T do love it," Paula said softly. "You'll know how much when I tell you that the copy you admired so much isn't mine." "Not yours? But you said it was "Tm... Borrowing... It, from a a girl with a lot of talent. She'll hardly know it when I'm finished." In the stillness of the room, Louise's voice fell like a whiplash. "Aunt Paula! Oh, Aunt Paula!" She ran blindly from the room. Paula looked from one to another of Sally's family. But they were smiling at her from shining faces, only Sally's was wet with tears. She stumbled over to Paula and held her close. "Paula, Paula, you were wonderful. How... How fine of you:.. What will you do now?" "Send back the copy... And my resignation. I'm not going back." "Tm so glad. You'll be happy here. Believe me, Paula." Paula said very carefully, so that the words wouldn't break before she could get them out, because they were important. The most important she had ever used. "Ask your missionary son to tell me.... Is it ever too late to start... Bringing forth fruit with patience?" she has this to say: war. Margery Stockseth Stewart, of Salt Lake City, wife of Russell Stewart, is a member of several literary organizations, including the League of Utah Writers, the Barnacles, and "The Little Group" of short story writers. Been awarded first prize in the annual short story contest sponsored. By the    and received the Deseret News Christmas Story Contest award in many of her compositions published in Utah periodicals, and in magazines of ole circulation. She has also received the Citizenship Award of the Salt Lake City Junior Chamber of Commerce, given for outstanding accomplishments of descendants of foreign-born Americans. Mrs. Stewart is of Norwegian descent. She is the mother of two children, a daughter, age ten, and a two-year-old son. Mrs. Stewart assists in drama production in the Mutual Improvement Association of Edgehill Ward, Hillside Stake. In appreciation of her home State, "My husband was in the Corps of Engineers during the I was lucky enough to be able to be with him. Gypsy blood, but when I came home to Salt Lake City, after the war was ended, and saw the mountains and the familiar streets, I knew my roots went deep into this soil, and that in any other place I am just half a person." She has I used to think I had 22 194 . Skillful and gifted in both story writing and poetry, Mrs. Stewart has