The Gospel as a Way of Life Priscilla L. Evans Member, Relief Society General Board FEW years ago, I stood with my husband and two young missionaries at the pier in New York City, awaiting the docking of an ocean liner which was returning to this country seventy missionaries of our Church seventy among the many who had been recalled from their labors in foreign lands. It was a very large ship, and was filled to its utmost capacity. Following a well-arranged and successful procedure (for these missionaries were among the last to arrive), we had presented our passes and were standing in a space assigned to us near the gate. Several baggage carts were beside us and two dock hands had been assigned to assist us. By the time the gangplank was securely anchored, and the gate opened, one of our dock hands had made his way to the opened gate. He stood quietly at the gate as this mass of humanity surged past him. But, as each missionary passed him, he touched him on the shoulder and said simply: "Here, Elder, this way. Your mission president is right over there." Soon, all seventy were with us, their baggage piled high in the carts. He had not missed one, though they were scattered through the crowd, and wore no identification. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE When he came to rejoin us, I said, "How in the world could you recognize all of those missionaries?" He looked at me intently for an instant, and replied, respectfully, "Well, I really don't know, ma'am  they're different!" Now, this man did not see this "difference" with his physical eyes, but felt it with his spiritual senses. This "difference" did not come from superior mental attainments, nor from physical prowess, nor from economic status, but from a spiritual strength. All over the world, wherever missionaries have labored, humble, superior, God-fearing men and women have felt this "difference" and have been attracted to the missionary. They observe his manner of living and his attitude toward good and evil. They see, at first, only a behavior pattern which is very desirable. But, little by little, as they become acquainted with the missionary, and hear from his lips the first principles of the gospel' plan, they are aware that the behavior which attracted them is but a reflection of this inner light, this spiritual strength, which the blessings of the gospel have conferred upon this young emissary. The spirit of God bears testimony to them of the truthfulness of the gospel, and they are baptized and confirmed members of the Church. Their confirmation - bestows upon them the gift of the Holy Ghost, and, with this gift, comes a burning desire to fully understand the truths of this great cause which they have espoused. In the early years of the Church, in these valleys, when all of the saints were comparatively recent converts 37 from other religious faiths, there was evident the same eager desire to fully understand the gospel plan, to live up to its responsibilities, and to receive its blessings. In the missions, the members desire, above all else, to learn the fundamental doctrines of the gospel. Associations have been known to use a doctrinal course year after year, not minding the repetition, for each year they have recognized new truths, or have learned to apply the truths better to their individual lives. For use in the present year, a purely doctrinal course of lessons has been prepared. These lessons are designed, primarily, for the mission branches, made up of comparatively new converts members such as I have just described. It is anticipated that all of the associations in the foreign missions will use this course for the reason that the present year's literature lessons, "America, as Revealed in Its Literature," may not be attractive to them, as it is hardly appropriate for their use. And there will be branches in the missions in this country, and some wards in the stakes, which will find these optional lessons better suited to their needs. "The Gospel as a Way of Life" is the subject of the course. The lessons, written by Elder T. Edgar Lyon, are simple and_ teachable (Dr. Lyon is a teacher in our Church schools), and are replete with illustrations of common experience. References are confined to the standard works of the Church. This is for the -reason that these books are available to the members in foreign lands, translated into their own language. This course is devoted to the first principles of the gospel; to faith, repentance, baptism, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. The final lessons have to do with the fruits of the gospel, the last one being devoted to the abundant life, meaning a life abundant with righteousness, in service to fellow men, and in obedience to the laws of God. It will be apparent that these lessons will attain their objective to strengthen the members in the knowledge of the fundamentals of the gospel plan, to make them more serene and sure in their faith. This will give them a spiritual strength, especially in their homes, that nothing else can give, for they will be strengthened in patience, forgiveness, humility, courage in the face of trials, and in kindness. The influence upon their growing children will be one of the greatest gifts to come to them from this knowledge of the gospel. For only in the home can the moral and religious virtues be ingrained into the lives of children. This simple, teachable, faith-promoting course is designed to help us to so make the gospel a part of us, that beauty, morality, and spirituality will be present in our surroundings, and become a part of our daily lives. May God bless us all in our efforts to interpret the gospel in the lives of the women of the Church, that all the world may be led to say of us, "Yes, they are different."