The Worth of Testimony Bearing Achsa E, Paxman Member, Relief Society General Board T is indeed a privilege to meet today in Relief Society Conference with you women from all over the Church, who have a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 'The goal of Relief Society is to help women to be better mothers and wives; to be devoted Church members who teach by example, as well as precept, the principles and teachings of our Church; to help form proper attitudes through intellectual understanding gained in Relief Society work; to help gain faith sufficient to be blessed with a testimony of the truthfulness of the restored gospel. It is the responsibility of every true Latter-day Saint woman, who has a testimony of the gospel, to. Maintain high ideals, and to develop a philosophy of life that will be an inspiration to all with whom she comes in contact. The burden of Christ's teaching was that men should keep the commandments. He told his disciples to go out and teach men everywhere. The promise was that they who believed should be saved. There is no promise to any other. To the multitude, who crowded around Christ the day after he had fed them, he said: Ye seek me, not because ye saw miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled. Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you (John 6:26, 27). What a privilege we have in our Church to give service, to prepare lessons of instructions to various groups, to attend meetings where inspired and well-prepared talks are given, and then to have the privilege of bearing our testimonies. Brigham Young said: "More testimonies are gained on your feet than on your knees." Testimony bearing is an expression that God is the beloved Father who rules and guides our lives. Our expressions of appreciation for our Father in heaven, for blessings and knowledge of his divinity and guidance, are a great help in our lives for righteous living. 'The Lord has given commandments and instructions through ancient and __ latter-day prophets, and bearing our testimonies to the divinity of these words is a great blessing to us. Mental assent to the gospel is not enough. There must be a power that drives us to action. Our faith is but the motivation for action. If we have the proper faith, we cannot be restrained from bearing our testimonies, and, because of our faith, our words and actions, and our lives, will be an influence on others. Appreciation is one of the greatest needs of the world today. A thoughtful deed, the needed praise to our associates, give encouragement and happiness. God also appreciates our acknowledgement of his blessings unto us. Many of our boys who served in the recent World War were blessed  GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE and encouraged through their faith in God and in the ideals taught them in our Church. Hundreds expressed appreciation of their belief in God and their faith in the resurrection, and no matter what their suffering or trials, not even the reality of death itself could keep them from worshiping God in spirit and in truth. Through their testimonies they were blessed, and many had the great joy of bringing the gospel to their companions. What a gift and power is testimony! The strength of Mormonism lies in the individual testimonies of its members. What a privilege our missionaries have to learn the gospel and to teach it to the people in the various missions of the Church! How they love to bear their testimonies of their faith in God and the truthfulness of 33 the gospel, for they are following the teachings of the Savior, "Feed my sheep." It is hoped that the Relief Society officers of every ward and branch of the Church will consider it a special privilege of missionary service to interest all their women with a desire to attend theology testimony meetings. The worth of testimony is great. May we be blessed with faith that God is still at the helm of this great nation. Let us have faith in the leadership of our Church. Let us strive to keep the principles and teachings of the gospel. May our testimonies be strengthened and may we be a light and an inspiration to others through our living the gospel and expressing in testimony our faith and gratitude, I pray, in the name of Jesus.