Congregational Singing and Song Practice Blanche B. Stoddard Member, Relief Society General Board 66 HE hymns we sing, speak what we are and what we believe. Faith and sorrow, hope and courage, trust and obedience, joy and thanksgiving  all are spoken from the heart in the song." The Lord himself acclaimed the power of music when, in July 1830, he gave a revelation through the Prophet Joseph Smith, directed to Emma Smith, in which he told her she was to make a selection of sacred hymns: For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (Doc. And Cov. 25:12).   I wonder if we realize that, for a few of our sisters, the only time they bear testimonies is in congregational singing. So, should not good congregational singing be an integral part of our Relief Society program? Do you choristers and organists realize how important you are? The first requisite, of course, is enthusiasm. There is no substitute for that. I have in mind one Relief Society chorister who shows her enthusiasm by standing before her congregation without a book. She knows her songs, and sings them because she loves them, so we cannot help but join in. I am sure she studies ahead of time the songs she is to conduct.  GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE I think we are too haphazard. For instance, in how many of our meetings do we see the presiding officer and the chorister hurriedly thumbing through the song book at one minute to two, trying to decide on an opening song? If the teacher for that day had waited until 2:20 to decide what she would give in her lesson, we could expect a very poor presentation, couldn't we? Why should not the chorister feel just as keenly her responsibility? _ We suggest that the ward preparation meeting be the time to select the songs for every meeting of the month. The songs and the lessons should correlate, as should any special numbers to be given. Then, at this meeting, the chorister and organist and class leaders should make their selections together. The lesson work this year, especially in the literature course, will provide a splendid opportunity for correlation with the music. During the month, the organist will have a chance to practice, if necessary, and the chorister can use time valuably in studying the words and time of these songs, and really interpret them for the edification of the Relief Society membership. The success of good congregational singing is in having everyone follow the leader. And so, the leader must know definitely where she is going. We hope sisters, that our singing will be "worshipful singing." In other words, we hope that the message of our songs will be the thing we want to get out of them. Samuel Smedley wrote the words of "I Know That My Redeemer Lives" about 1789. It was my privilege to know very well the composer of the music as we now have it in 39 our hymn book. Brother Louis D. Edwards was a contemporary and very dear friend of Evan Stephens. He composed many of our Sunday School songs, among them "Hark, Listen to the 'Trumpeters." He moved to my home town, La Grande, Oregon, about 1915, and conducted our stake choir for many years. I was fortunate enough to be his organist. He always wrote a special accompaniment for the hymns and anthems we sang, so I learned many fine lessons from him  not all regarding music. He wore his gray hair long on his shoulders and had piercing black eyes, as I imagine the Apostle Paul had, and his testimony was just as powerful as Paul's. We sang "I Know That My Redeemer Lives" at his funeral in 1921. Do you see, sisters, what we mean when we say "worshipful singing?" We hope Relief Society presidents are giving the choristers time for song practice twice each month. We suggest that this be carefully prepared and worked out by the chorister and organist. We hope, also, that you will teach new songs. We are in a rut, I am afraid, and choose the line of least resistance in singing the same songs over and over. During song practice, analyze the words of the song, as has been suggested, and give the setting and background of the composition. Let all of the sisters learn the soprano part first, then those who read readily can hear the alto. The important thing is that every one shall participate, and that song practice shall be looked forward to with anticipation; a time when no one shall be denied expression; a time for testimonies to be sung. Get the habit of singing all of the song. Usually, it takes all the verses to convey the message. To avoid monotony, perhaps you would not have an interlude between every verse, only between the second and third. The organist, in her preparation, may learn a variation in interludes, not necessarily just repeating the last two or three measures. I don't believe I have mentioned the importance of the organist. I want to emphasize that now. She can make of a song a ragged, unpleasant thing, or a smooth-flowing, melodious thing. Sisters, don't ever say, "I am just the organist or chorister in Relief Society." Say, "I am the chorister in Relief Society, and I am going to make my work as outstanding and - lovely and educational as any other part of the Relief Society program. I am going to be indispensable in the success of my entire organization."