Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford SISTERS, we are very pleased to S greet this large gathering of Relief Society women again this morning and to bid you welcome to this meeting. We have a few figures from the annual report that we wish to bring to your attention, in order that you may better understand the trend that the various phases of this organization are taking, and that you may understand the phases of the program which, perhaps, require special attention during the coming year. The annual report for 1945 reveals that we now have Relief Society organizations in every state in the Union. Membership The membership figures for 1945 disturb us just a little, in that they show a loss of 371 members, with the total membership of the Society at the close of 1945 as 101,691. This loss in membership we attribute to the fact that many organizations which were meeting on Sunday, which was a war-time expedient, have changed, and are now meeting on a weekday. We wish you to know that we approve the weekday meeting. We feel that more advantages come to the women when they meet on a weekday. Another thing that has interfered with our membership has been the population shift due to the close of the war. We have had some losses, also, from deaths and resignations, and a few losses from names being removed from the rolls, names of inactive members. Now, you do have the privilege, sisters, of removing names from the rolls under certain circumstances, but we hope that you will only exercise this privilege according to the rules set down by the General Board. It is a very serious thing to remove the name of a Latter-day Saint woman from a Relief Society roll. It should never be done without her full knowledge and full consent, and following a personal visit to her by the president or someone appointed by the president. We feel that there is opportunity for increasing our Relief Society membership. It is presumed that there is at least one woman eligible for Relief Society membership in each family of the Church. There ~ are 61,660 Latter-day Saint families in the stakes of Zion not represented in Relief Society, and we wish that special attention be given to these women who are not enrolled. We also wish that you would give special attention to the young women, the brides, who are just beginning to establish homes, and who need to build their homes on the foundation of Latter-day Saint standards. We hope that you will bring these young women into the organization. They need Relief Society and Relief Society needs them. Visiting Teaching We are very happy to report to you that there is an upturn in our visiting-teaching program. Everywhere we note an increased interest in the work and an improved attitude toward it, and the figures also show an improvement in our visiting teaching. As a matter of fact, we had 7.2 visits to Latter-day Saint homes out of a possible 12. We think this is a fairly good record and it is particularly gratifying in that it shows an improvement over the year before. Sewing Program The educational courses were well received during 1945, with our class leaders doing excellent work. The Society, through the medium of the work meeting, carried forward an extensive sewing program. But only one-third of the women of our organization participated in the sewing program. This is disturbing to us in that it doesn't represent enough women doing the sewing, and this figure has persisted for two or three years. We hope that you will make concentrated effort to bring more women into the sewing program. We hope that you will do a great deal to teach the young women to sew. This is our responsibility as Relief Society workers. The goal of this Society is to have every member gain the training, and experience, the joy and satisfaction that come from participating in our sewing program. Compassionate Service Our compassionate services have enlisted the attention of thousands of women, and a great deal of creditable work has been done. However, this is another phase of our program that we feel we could expand with profit. We hope that you will give special attention during the coming year to the compassionate services which are so much needed today. European Relief ' During the month of December in 1945, the Society, in support of the Church Welfare Plan, participated in an extensive relief program for the aid of the destitute Latter-day Saints in European countries. This participation included contribution by Relief Society of a total of 7,200 blankets and quilts. We also contributed 47,173 bars of soap to this program, and the sisters assisted in the collection, sorting, mending and packing of 562,279 articles of good, used clothing for distribution to the European saints. The Relief Society General Board sincerely appreciates the work that you sisters did in support of the European relief program. You not only rendered good service, but you rendered it in the spirit of willing service. You seemed happy to do it, and we were grateful for that. Annual Report I hope that you will look at the annual report published in the September issue of Thestudy it carefully, sisters. It has been prepared in a new and very interesting style by our General Secretary Margaret Pickering. Participation in Other Programs Now, several questions have come into the office during recent months which we wish to answer for you here this morning. We have had numerous requests regarding the participation of our organization in health and other programs, worthy programs, which are wholly, or partially supported by funds other than Church funds. We have been advised by Church authorities that Relief Society, as an organization, should not undertake to promote such programs, that the members of Relief Society might help individually as you did during war-time in support of the American Red Cross. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Participation of Girls in Welfare Sewing The handbook for leaders of Latter-day Saint girls indicates that in working toward the standard group award that girls participate in Church Welfare projects. Relief Society presidents have evidenced some concern regarding turning over to the girls Welfare sewing assigned to the Society which requires supervision Or sewing experience, since the girls, in most instances, cannot attend our regular Relief Society work meetings where such supervision is given, and since they do not themselves have a meeting where Relief Society workers could go and give them the directions that they need in preparing these articles. We are advised by the Presiding Bishopric that it is not expected that the girls share the Welfare sewing, requiring technical sewing skill, unless you can provide some supervision for them. But, sisters, there is much sewing assigned to us by the Church Welfare Program which does not require technical skill, and we feel that it would be a fine thing to share this sewing with the girls. The participation of the girls in the Welfare sewing would be encouraging to them, and I think, too, it would be good training looking toward their eventual membership in our organization, and it would also bring them close to the Church Welfare Program. So if you have sewing that you can release to 5 them, we think it would be a splendid thing to do. Quilting Rates Quilt-making is both traditional and extensive in Relief Society, and thousands of quilts are made annually for various purposes. Relief Society women give willingly of their time in quilting for the needy, and for co-operative, help-one-another quilting projects. They also give of their time in quilting to earn funds for the local Society by the quilts being sold at bazaars, or for individual orders, for example, where people order a quilt for their own use. The women give their time in this service. Obviously, Relief Society members should not be expected to give service on quilting for individuals who can afford to pay for this serv. Ice at rates which yield too little income for the organization in proportion to the quilt-making service. Now, we don't want to be misunderstood; you should not charge prices that are too high. We want you to give full value in sewing, or any other type of service, in this organization. We stand for that. But I wish to give you this little example to illustrate why we bring this before this meeting. In one ward a quilt was made for a woman living in a neighboring state. It was reported to me by her stake president that at least 204 hours were required to quilt this quilt, with thirty-five women participating at different times. Had one woman made the quilt, it would have required her working seven hours a day for thirty days. The Society charged $8.00 for the quilting service. Now, the women give their service to the organization, but it his the responsibility of Relief Society officers to direct this fine service contribution of the women along the most economical and profitable lines to the Society. You have a responsibility to utilize this contributed service in the most necessary and profitable way. We call this to your attention for that purpose. Now, some of you have asked about quilting prices. We refer you to The Relief Society. Magazine, September 1944, page 526, for suggested prices. Missionary Work Not Relief Society Responsibility Since the opening up of missionary work, following the release of so many of our young people from war service, a number of Relief Society presidents have asked for advice as to whether or not Relief Society should collect funds or use funds which they may have on hand to support a missionary in the field. Relief Society has not been assigned the responsibility of keeping missionaries in the field. It appears that the work assigned to us is so great in scope that Relief Society should not assume added responsibilities, Relief Society Building Last year the Relief Society women in the general session of our conference voted to support the General Board in a building program, in the erection of a Relief Society build: ing in Salt Lake City. Due to circumstances over which we have had no control, we have up to date been unable to go forward with our build. Ing program. However, as soon as definite plans are worked out and approved, you will be advised. Scope of Relief Society Work Sisters, the work of Relief Society is a great and a mighty work. It is the work assigned by the Church to the women of the Church. It takes the diligence, it takes the ability, it takes the prayer, it takes the faith, it takes the understanding of everyone of you to carry it forward, and it is the prayer of my heart that everyone of us will be endowed by our Heavenly Father with the requirements necessary to carry forward the work, and that we will experience the joy and the satisfaction that come from serving our Heavenly Father and keeping his commandments. And may he bless you in the work to which you are called, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.