Dependability; and Thirst for Knowledge. I shall attempt to review these lessons for you in the brief time allotted to me. First, the love of God. This quality is, indeed, one of the cardinal virtues, for did not the Savior say: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself" (Matthew 22:37-39). The early Latter-day Saints manifested their love of God when they accepted the gospel and became members of the Church, for Mormonism, at the time, was so misrepresented and abused that it was a very unpopular religion. The love of fellow man was a noble characteristic of the pioneers. It was this fraternal feeling that prompted all the missionary work that was performed during the early days of the Church. The truths of the gospel, which they prized so highly, they wished to share with others, and so they went forth, without purse or scrip, enduring all manner of personal hardships, in order that they might make known to their fellow men the saving principles which had been revealed from heaven to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Faith, the ability to believe in the visions and inspired teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, was another of the great attributes possessed by the pioneers. Their faith was genuine and real, as real as life itself. They believed with heart and soul that God had revealed himself, and that his kingdom had been again established upon earth. Courage, which is born of faith, is another admirable characteristic of the pioneers. It required supreme courage for 20,000 Latter-day Saints to leave their comfortable homes in Nauvoo, and journey into the western wilderness, in the most inclement season of the year. They were courageous when they allowed five hundred of their young, strong men to enlist in the army, to fight the battles of their country against Mexico, leaving their wives and children, mothers and fathers, stranded in an Indian country, living in wagons and tents, on the banks of the Missouri river. They were brave and courageous when they began the journey to Utah, with inferior equipment and meager supplies; a journey over deserts and mountain ranges, which consumed more than three months time. And when they began to build a city and a temple in the barren Salt Lake Valley,. Their courage was sublime. Another lesson we may learn from these remarkable people is the lesson of industry. The entire history of the Latter-day Saints testifies that wherever they have settled they have been diligent and industrious. In Utah, the beehive was early adopted as the State emblem, signifying a busy, diligent, and self-sustaining people. The teachings of Brigham Young, during the thirty years that he presided over the saints in the valleys, was to the effect that all who were able should sustain themselves by some useful work. The genius of the Welfare Plan, now being stressed throughout the Church, is that the Latter-day Saints should all be engaged in useful work and, through their labors, sustain themselves. Self-reliance is another prominent characteristic of our pioneer forefathers. This valuable and important attribute was largely developed through the persecutions that were heaped upon them. For many years "every man's hand" was against them, and, finally, they were driven into the western desert where they had to be self-reliant in order to survive. Dependability was a notable trait of the early settlers of these valleys. They were taught to be dependable in all their dealings, and in every walk of life. Frequently, they were called by the Presidency of the Church to leave comfortable homes in Salt Lake City, and move to out-  GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE lying settlements, such as St. George, the Muddy River in Nevada, Cache Valley, or the Salmon River in Idaho. No one was expected to refuse such a call they were to be dependable and carry out the instructions of those who were placed in authority to preside over them. Dependability in private matters was also to be observed, such as the payment of debts, the return of articles which had been borrowed, and the keeping of appointments. "Thirst for Knowledge" is the title given to the eighth lesson in this course, and Sister Lyman fittingly 35 points out that the high ideals for education in the Church have come about through the stimulating precepts given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, such as the following: "A man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge," and "The glory of God is intelligence" (Doc. & Cov. 93:30). Surely then, of all people, " should hold the quest for knowledge uppermost in our minds. We trust that our visiting teachers will find joy and satisfaction in carrying these messages to the membership of their various organizations throughout the Church.