The Importance of Music in Relief Society Florence J. Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board LET us ponder how important is the music in Church services. This is a question we all should ask ourselves. The experience of all conscientious leaders in Church activity indicates and justifies the conclusion that the music is fundamentally essential in all progressive, significant, and vital services. In fact, without the complement of music, very often the intent of worship would be very much like the letter without the spirit, and would fail to stir the worshiper with a consciousness of the values and beauties of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and the message of the prophets. "Yea," as Longfellow says, "music is the prophet's art; among the gifts that God hath sent, one of the most magnificent." Now, we still cling to that. We feel that music comes from him and is a gift to us. The human voice is the one instrument that we have been given. God made it, not man. All other instruments are man-made. Consider that. The same instrument you speak with, you sing with, so don't say you can't sing. I am sure that all of us, as Relief Society workers, realize that this is a fact, and that we are anxious to increase our contributions toward the constant availability of musical resources, that our religious services shall, in the future, be richer with appeals and interests than they have been in the past. The question now arises, What can we do to make this desired and necessary musical availability certain? It seems to me, that we must emphasize certain underlying principles and steps of procedure. The first of these, I feel, should be a complete and dynamic conversion to the necessity and value of music in relation to the Church, generally, and the Relief Society program, particularly.  GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Conversion in anything is necessary. You, who sometimes have very little talent, if you can be converted to the thing you are trying to do, you will do it well because you will seek, and seeking, you will find it; and you will knock, and in knocking, it will be opened unto you. Do not feel that you have to have exceptional gifts to be an organizer and conductor of a singing group. If, however, you have some special gift in this line, it will aid you materially. There are mechanics to music, and most anyone who puts forth the effort can learn them. Don't ever -tell your children, those roundabout you who are trying to sing or trying to play, not to sing or play, that they have no talent. Don't ever say that. Let them use any melody they want to use. Sometimes it is a while before a child is able to sing in tune. Music is one of the finest cultural arts we know, and it is a thing that many of us can express at the same time, Now, if you can just absorb some of these things, I know you can go into your wards and into your stakes, and you can organize and begin to move forward. And that is our thought now, in this Centennial year. Transportation is not such a problem, and we do want our Singing Mothers' organizations to function. I have been able to be out and hear a few of them in our conventions, and I have been delighted with the work. Sometimes the groups are very large, sometimes they are small. Let us try and see if we can bring in all the women who want to sing, and then see if we can have something to give them when they come. 41 After we have decided that we are definitely converted to the great power of music, and we have agreed that music is the handmaid of religion, and a great power for good, then, I would suggest an adequate musical preparation. We need that just as much as we need these lessons. We need our textbooks. We must have something we can refer to. If you read music now, learn to read it better. Take the printed page of music, and don't feel that it is a stranger to you, that you can't read it. It takes so little to have a fervent appreciation of music, to discriminate properly between musical values, and to be able to conduct music intelligently, and with due artistry. This, naturally, involves some well-planned and systematic study and training, and, in order to secure such help, we should seek out teachers who are competent to give us the necessary instruction. Such teachers are not necessarily in remote places, but may be found in your own neighborhood. Also, such training need not be expensive. What about the school music teacher in your town? He would gladly share his learning with you, and, perhaps, just for the asking. You choristers are working with groups, mature and young; people who have sung, and people who, perhaps, have gone for years without singing. We have that group. Then, we have the young ones who have not sung much, and who really make a lovely group. I like some younger singers with the more mature singers. In maturity, we have the body of tone; in the younger singers, we have the freshness of tone. How can we blend these groups? 42 Our voices, in a sense, are as individual as our faces are. How are we going to help them, and how are we going to blend them in a common tone, something that we can all plan and work toward, and that will come out beautifully? This year, I hope you can get your groups together and plan something. You all can do that. There will be music mentioned in yourThere was some ' in the December Magazine for 1942. In choosing your songs, choose something that has some goodness to it, and there are good things, not all such simple things. Don't keep your repertoire down to such simple things all the time. Let's do things a little harder let's progress. I know you people can do that, in part rehearsal. I'm stressing that part rehearsal. Don't have all sopranos. When you come to making your chorus, just simply say, "I've got to have so many altos; I've got to have so many sopranos." 'Try and get some of these younger people who are coming into Relief Society. They need you and you need them. RECEPTION FOR STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS AND BOARD MEMBERS Wednesday Evening, October 2, 1946 Receiving line, left to right: General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering; Second Counselor, Gertrude R. Garff; First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; General President Belle S. Spafford; Board member, Leone G. Layton.. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 43 OFFICERS' MEETING, OCTOBER 3, 1946