Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HIS month marks the beginning of the Centennial celebration of the arrival of the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley. As we unfurl the scroll of history these hundred years have written, we are proud of the quality of womanhood our Church has produced. The typical Mormon woman and she is legion has nobility, kindliness, integrity, intelligence, talent, gentility. And a surpassing faith. IN interesting highlight of the past history of our State was the appointment by Governor Heber M. Wells,, in the year 1900, of a woman as superintendent of public instruction for a period of three months, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Dr. John R. Park. The woman was Mrs. Emma J. McVicker, an instructor at the predecessor of the present Westminister College. She had been nominated for that position in 1895, running against the beloved Dr. Park. However, the supreme court ruled her candidacy illegal. (Women had not yet won suffrage. ) She very graciously withdrew, urging the support of Dr. Park. IN the national news in 1900, was a widow, Mrs. Alice Northlane, of Sioux City, Towa, a cultured gentlewoman and a skilled musician, who won fame and affluence for herself by being one of the best judges of cattle in the United States. She felt that women needed what the New Englanders call "faculty," which she defined as "ability, adaptability, capability." IN the international news in 1900 was Tora, the Japanese wife of Sir Edwin Arnold, one of the most popular hostesses in London. Also, Miss Lillias Hamilton was court physician to the Ameer of Afghanistan. MRS. ANNA CATHERINE PETERSON RASMUSSEN. Of Castle Dale, recently died at the age of 102 years. She was one of those most invaluable Latter-day Saints, a midwife and nurse of the early pioneer days.. She was the oldest woman in Utah. That title now rests with Mrs. Sylvia Elizabeth Metcalf, of Gunnison, 101 years old. She lived through Indian uprisings and learned the Indian language. She has four daughters pining (one died a few weeks ago), 50 grandchildren, 125 great-grandchildren and fourteen great-great-grandchildren. TWELVE nations sent delegates to the board meeting in Brussels of the International Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs. Many of them were not permitted by their countries to take out one piece of money, so difficulties were many. Quite a number had been prisoners in concentration camps. Their one great desire is to work for peace. Page 49 Editorial Vol. 34 January 1947 No. 1