Unsung Heroes in Zion's Cause Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, April 1, 1947 Objective: To appreciate the countless unheralded men and women who have stood firm within the Church, to move forward the work of the Lord. UTAH'S centennial year 1947 has come in with marked celebrations. 'Thousands of dollars will be spent to bring to mind again the men and women who crossed the plains to build their Zion. The leaders and colonizers of the great Latter-day Saint State will be fittingly eulogized, and monuments of lasting beauty will rise to tell their story. All this should be, for every cause must have great men to lead. Yet, too, in every movement, there must be those who follow in faith and devotion. It is to these unsung heroes in Zion's cause that we now most fittingly, in the year of 1947, pause to pay tribute. Their number is legion, their modest deeds and virtues countless, and without them, there could have been no kingdom of the Lord established. Unlike the other lessons in this series, this lesson will not have questions and readings for discussion. Rather, it is suggested that the hour should be spent in recalling faith promoting stories that certainly abound in every Latter-day Saint home. For those classes which do not have the older saints, it is suggested that stimulating stories of the early settlers of Utah, recorded in biographical form, be assigned for telling on the day this lesson is given. It is hoped, however, that in every ward and branch Relief Society there may be found the individual stories of a local nature, which may, on this day, herald the unsung stories of men and women, whose deeds the Lord has faithfully recorded for reward. For an example of the stories that are sure to be found for such a lesson as this, the following heretofore unwritten account of William Terry of Draper, Utah, is given: On the pleasant countryside of Rhode Island some hundred years ago, two young hearts found companionship. The boy answered to the name of William, the girl befittingly was known as Mary, They were married. She then became a Terry, and only on occasion referred to her maiden name of Phillips. These two young people proudly traced their line back to the Mayflower stock of New England. Serious in deportment were they, for the Lord's Page 55 word had ever been a part of their up. Bringing. Not many of the happy years of their married life had passed before Latter-day Saint missionaries found them and their then small family of girls, Wholeheartedly, these two embraced the faith and set out for a land unknown, which God had set aside for his people. Ere their journey to the mountains was completed, another little girl was born, who was given her mother's name. When William and Ma finally looked upon the promised land, their eyes were filled with tears. Before them lay a dry and burning stretch of earth. "Sage, sage, sage," spoke William. "Mary, if it weren't for my religion, I'd yoke these oxen again and turn them back to New England." But they went on, and obedient to their leader's call, settled south against the sheltering upland of the Wasatch Range, to help found the town now known as Drap.- er, Utah. There were many hard years ahead, years of cold and hunger, before the green fields of wheat and corm blossomed in the valley sun. One winter, father William had but little food for his family. The flour sacks were empty by the time the early March winds cut through the cabin. One day, as this good man went forth to open the ditches along his acres, his youngest daughter Mary, with childlike love, saw the pain of hunger in his face. Lovingly, she found the flour sacks and set about to dust them for every precious sift. Her patience was rewarded, for by afternoon, she had enough to make two small johnnycakes, When evening came her father did not return. At first, there was no alarm, for it was thought he had Stayed late to end his chores. But when the night b fall, the little girl helped her mother bolt the door. Indians were always near, and in their dark and quiet forms, one never knew what danger might be found. At midnight, there came a quiet tapping at the door. The mother stirred to ask who knocked, in hopes it might have been her husband, but when no answer came, in fear, she approached the covered win. Dow. Mary, her daughter, meantime thinking it was her father, had slipped to the door and unlatched its fastenings. To her surprise, a foot was forced within. In fear, the little girl leaned with all her might against the door to pin the toe that appeared. Her mother hastened to her aid, the youngest "Mother, it is father's shoe." anguished cry of relief and pain, they flung How sweet it was for johnnycakes her One day an important letter arrived from Salt Lake City. Father Terry opened it and read. His face became grave, "What is it, William?" asked his wife. "We've been called on a mission to help colonize Southern Utah, where it is said, they can grow cotton and silk for weaving. President Young wants all the experienced textile workers he can enlist to move south and help develop the industry." Mary touched the corer of her apron to her eyes and turned away. Nothing more was said about the letter that night at the Supper table. When the morning came, after a night of prayers, William went out to the barn to hitch up his team. Been asked to report to Brother Young's office as soon as Possible," he told his wife. "to discuss the matter of our move. Pl be back by evening." The best. Part of the forenoon had  LESSON DEPARTMENT passed by the time William Terry arrived at Brigham Young's office. He entered the outer room, seated himself. It was a busy office. Many people were there, who passed in to see the president. One after another gained office help inquired of Brother Terry as to his visit. The afternoon wore on. At four o'clock, William picked up his hat and left. He was an independent New Englander. That evening, when he arrived home with no report, he told his wife that they would have a few more days to wait before final word was given on the call. A week passed. Then, one morning a second letter arrived from Salt Lake City. Unmistakably, the envelope indicated the sender. It was from President Young. In effect, he had written inquiring as to why Brother Terry had not been to see him, as requested. The next day Father Terry sat down and answered. Politely he in formed the president of his trip to Salt Lake on the day following the receipt of the first letter, and of his spending the afternoon in the outer office with no results. In conclusion, he wrote, "The trip from Draper to Salt Lake is no farther than the trip from Salt Lake to Draper. I'll be at home any time you care to call." When President Young received this re-ply, he immediately drove south. The two Church members met. It was a pleasant but serious conference. They discussed the cause of Zion in its particular relation-ship to the Terry family. Not long after, Brother William and his family moved south. The sad part of this story is that while in Utah's land of Dixie, William Terry contracted an illness which took his life. He was then in his early forties. Mary and her large family, mostly daughters, again returned to Draper to make their home. Unsung, but not forgotten to the Lord, are the countless acts of like devotion that made possible the building of Zion in the latter days. This is but small tribute the writer can pay to the memory of so fine a great-grandfather and great-grand- mother. References Stories of the pioneers, extolling their virtues may be found in many sources, particularly Church magazines. Other rich sources for such stories are the lesson pamphlets issued by the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, to be found in most Church communities, and the book A Story to Tell, issued by the Sunday School and Primary, for sale at the Deseret Book Co. Visiting Teachers' Messages Our Pioneer Heritage Lesson 7 Dependability President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, April 1, 1947 Objective: To understand more completely the great pioneer virtue dependability; to show how the pioneers cherished their honor in their dealings with their fellow men. RELIGION. Which is a mighty force, and helps to bring out the best in man, was uppermost in the minds of the pioneers. It helped to confirm them in their ideal of dependability. It gave them incentive and determination to deal fairly and justly with one another, and with all others, including the traders, the trappers, and the Indians. The whole life and spirit of the pioneer camps, and, later, of the pioneer communities, was conducive to right and proper living. They could be relied upon as individuals and as groups. Their word was as good as their bond. On the 25th of July, 1847, the day after their arrival in the Valley, the following note was made in the diary of a pioneer: The President said he wanted the brethren in overhauling their wagons to return everything that did not belong to them, to the owner, as many things had been changed [exchanged] by the way; even to the value of 6% cents. The diaries of the pioneers reveal the trust and confidence they had in one another and the neighborly spirit of co-operation and generosity which existed. So great was their trust and confidence, that both men and women exchanged labor, service, and equipment, and even made loans of cash without written agreements. In those days, contracts for raising and feeding cattle, for clearing land, and for building homes were often only oral, but they were completed without misunderstandings, because of the honesty and fairness that existed among the people. Women, as well as men, were also generous and trustworthy. One pioneer woman has stated that she nursed a friend on three different occasions when babies were born, and that this friend extended to her the same service. Following, are two excerpts from the journal of a pioneer of 1847. The first refers to the time he was a resident of Perry County, Illinois, and was selling his property there preparing to leave for the West: The next day I went to the home of my brother-in-law to whom I sold some lands left me by my father. He paid me in property, and, on the 29th of January, I let Brother G. P. D., the elder who had converted and baptized me, two yoke of oxen, worth $65.00 each, and two horses, worth $65.00 each; and also $10.00 in cash to enable him to remove his family to the wilderness, he not having means of his own. In the second excerpt, May 28, 1848, at Winter Quarters, the pioneer records further: I got my wagon and equipment I had left with Brother G. A. S. Last fall when I returned from the mountains [Utah]... I let Brother S. Have my ox team put on a plow to break prairie while I was waiting on the ferry, which was very crowded. Dependability, as a trait of character, is as necessary today as it was in the days of the pioneers. In Church work, as in everyday living, the person who can be relied upon, whose word is as good as his bond, will be sought after, and his talents will be called into full and useful endeavor, both for the good of himself and that of others. Anyone who lacks dependability should strive assiduously to cultivate it.