America Through Testing Years Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, April 15, 1947 It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion; that we here highly resolve that these dead shall -not have died in vain; that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth (Address of President Abraham Lincoln at Gettysburg, Nov. 19, 1863). "THESE closing lines from Lincoln's Gettysburg Address ring eloquently today as they did during the testing hours of the war between our states. Serious problems then had divided our nation, with each side struggling valiantly for what it felt was right. The issues, bitterly contested in Congress, and among groups of citizens over the land, were not to be resolved through free debate; so war came with all its heartaches, sacrifice, and wounds hard to heal in our national life. Naturally, through the times before, during, and after the war, there was literature of varied types song, oration, story, drama portraying the problems and the spirit of the epoch. Since slavery was at the root of the struggle, much of this literature pictured the negro and the old plantation life. Typical of this expression, from the white folk, are the ever popular songs of Stephen Foster. With a natural gift for creating lyrics and music, this artist has left us a heritage that carries richly through the years. "Old Folks at Home," "Old Black Joe," "Massa's in the Cold Ground," "Oh, Susanna," are typical. All of his songs reveal understanding and appreciation of the folk, white or black, who are pictured. His insight into the varied master and slave relationship is suggested in "My Old Kentucky Home." Its lines make one feel, at first, the happier situation, with the singer voicing joy through these words: The sun shines bright in the old Kentucky home; 'Tis summer, the darkies are gay, The corn-top's ripe and the meadow's in the bloom, While the