The Abundant Life, Here and Hereafter Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, April 15, 1947 Most of the biblical accounts of the teachings of Jesus concern themselves with illustrative parables that he used to emphasize a principle of conduct or belief. Seldom is there a statement that can serve as a concrete summary of his teachings. Perhaps one of the best is contained in his sermon that stressed the need for reliance upon his teachings and the acceptance of him as the door to the kingdom of God. Stressing the fact that, unlike the thief who came to steal, kill or destroy, he came to give men life, he stated: "I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly" (John 10:10). This expression, "The Abundant Life," has come to be thought of as one of the finest descriptions of the purpose of life that has ever been made, and while it is true that an abundant life may be obtained in this mortal sphere of action, the Lord's real thought in this expression had to do with the life to come. He promised those who follow him persecution, hate of the world, deprivation of many things, and this has been the history of his people, very largely, when they have faithfully served him. The true meaning of the abundant life is the reward of exaltation which is to come. For this life, it implies that the Christian should be living a life that is full of goodness, joy, service, contentment, faith, vigor, righteousness, and all virtues that make life worthwhile. Turing from the realm of abstract ideals to the physical world in which we live, requires that the abundant life be interpreted in terms of daily living and social conduct in our society. One of the most fundamental requirements for living abundantly is the enjoyment of good health spiritually, mentally and physically. Nowhere is this fact stressed more clearly than in the Latter-day Saint Word of Wisdom (Doc. And Cov. 89). The Lord revealed this guide for living, stating the types of things that were detrimental to health, and then revealed a list of positive ways for improving health. It closes with a threefold promise: One who observes this law will have increased physical strength, increased knowledge, and greater spiritual power. It was not given as a restriction upon freedom, but to lead the world to a better understanding of the meaning of joyful living. Our modern world, on every hand, is full of inducements to indulge in those things that the Lord has condemned, and social pressure makes it the "smart thing" to do. But a careful observer notices that nothing tangible that can contribute 66 to lasting, abundant living, is offered in exchange for the indulgence. One of the best arguments for the observance of the prohibitive elements of the Word of Wisdom that has ever come to our attention was 'a remark overheard in a conversation between two students at an institution of higher learning. A professor in a physiology class had stated that the smoking of six cigarettes a day apparently had no physiological effect upon the human system. A boy, addicted to the smoking habit, was trying to persuade: a girl to join him in a smoke, meeting her arguments that it was unhealthy with the quotation from the professor's lecture. Finally the girl replied: "Suppose I do smoke six cigarettes a day, and suppose I have the will power not to smoke more than six a day, which I doubt I would have, if the habit were formed, what would I then have that I do not already possess, except stained fingers, a tobacco smelling breath, and less money in my purse?" Her answer called for a statement of the merits of the habit, and he had nothing to offer. The same question might be asked whenever any food or drink that is unhealthful is offered for consumption. Service to mankind was one of the teachings that Jesus urged upon his followers as a means of gaining the abundant life. His parable of the good Samaritan, as well as his teaching of the need to love our neighbor, as intensely as we love ourselves, are illustrations of his concept of service (see Luke 10:25-37). The giving of our time, means, and talents for the benefit of others has proved to be one of the richest experiences in achieving abundant life. Within the Church, there is the basic system of giving, namely, that of the tithe. The Lord requires that we return to his Church the tenth that has been designated "The Lord's Tenth." In addition to this, there is the system of fast offerings which represent the money saved through abstaining from food for two meals on the first Sunday of each month. In addition to these fixed practices, Church members are called upon to make donations for the erection of new chapels, or the remodeling of old ones. Many individuals spend large sums in support of missionaries sent to the people of the earth. Also, donations for Church Welfare projects and quorum activities make demands upon the financial resources of the saints. During World War I, the government used a slogan in its bond-selling campaigns that read "Give till it hurts." Latter-day Saints have a better one. They give until it hurts, then keep on giving, until it feels good. They have learned the truth of Paul's quotation of Jesus, "It is more blessed to give than to receive" (Acts 20:35). Giving of one's substance overcomes selfishness, creates an interest in the great social and spiritual work of the Church, and draws one closer to God. Proof of the increased ability to give, when once engaged in the process, is found in a recent statement by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., speaking before the Welfare workers of the South California Region in February 1946. He said: It is rather a curious thing to me that since we began this Welfare Plan and since we began calling upon the saints to give, our tithing has increased more than 150 LESSON DEPARTMENT per cent, and is still on the increase (Deseret News, Church Section, March 2, 1946, page 9). The Order of Consecration and Stewardship during the Missouri period, the attempt at living the United Order in Utah, and now, the Church Welfare Plan, are all organized attempts that the Church has undertaken to afford the saints the opportunity of making their services to their fellow men more effective. An essential element of abundant living is found in marriage and the home life built by this relationship. God instituted marriage and blessed it as an eternal institution. 'To mankind he gave the command to multiply and replenish the earth. The birth of a child brings with it the responsibility of parents to co-operate in the proper rearing of this child. Here is a great opportunity for service. The mother labors diligently, losing herself in service to her offspring, and the father, working diligently to provide the food, clothing, and shelter for those he loves, also loses himself in service to the next generation. In addition to providing for the physical needs, the parents have the obligation of providing further service to their children through teaching them proper spiritual habits and fine ideals (Doc. And Cov. 69:25-31). Co-operation, unselfishness, forgiveness, kindness, consideration, love, and duty are taught within the home better than any other place. The Latter-day Saint concept of the eternity of the marriage relationship is a dynamic power in married life, giving to it a degree of permanency that cannot be found elsewhere in the modem world.  Temple work affords one an opportunity to serve unselfishly one's kindred dead, with the knowledge of the joy being bestowed upon the recipients of the temple work. This represents losing oneself for the sake of the gospel, but finding a new life because of the increased joy that the unselfish service brings. Jesus taught that not only must we love our neighbors or friends, but that we must also love our enemies. This means that we must learn the value of a forgiving mind. It is difficult to forgive when others have wronged us, yet this requirement is one of the fundamental principles of conduct. In the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus taught that we should seek out those whom we may have wronged and be reconciled (see Matt. 5:23-24). In this dispensation, the Lord has again placed upon the saints the responsibility to make peace with those who offend them (see Doc. And Cov. 42:88, 89). It is difficult, but it is the Christian thing to do, and is the first step toward the realization of the ideal of loving one's enemies. The Lord has said: Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another: for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin. I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men (Doc. And Cov. 64:9-10). An element that is essential to the abundant way of living, but often lost sight of in our modern world, is the opportunity we have to worship our Eternal Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. He has told us that on the Lord's day we are to go to our houses of worship and offer our donations, partake of the sacrament- al emblems, and offer prayers of thanksgiving, gratitude and praise, as well as prayers for our needs (Doc. And Cov. 59:7-16). Certainly, our prayers should emphasize our gratitude and thanks, not merely supplicate for our wants. In order to draw close to God in our devotions, we must worship intelligently. The Lord stated in Doctrine and Covenants 93:19, that he was revealing the information contained in that section that we might understand and know how to worship and know what we worship. Only when the human soul comes in tune with divinity is that soul able to live on the level of abundant life. In spite of all the requirements placed upon members of the Church, both financial and service requirements, the gospel does not require one to live the life of an unhappy person. The ideal of joy has always been a basic interpretation of our attitude toward life (II Nephi 2:25). The joyous life is a good life. A good life is a clean life. A clean life is a worshipful life, and a worshipful life is one that is lived in conformity with the spirit of the gospel. When one is healthy, generous with his material wealth, has a good home, and a happy married life, gives himself in the service of others, learns forgiveness and love of those who offend him, and has learned to approach God in the true spirit of worship, his life should be radiantly happy, because he has found the path that leads to the abundant life that Jesus came to give mankind on this sphere of existence, as well as in the world to come, by earning individual exaltation in the kingdom of God. Discussion and Activity Problems 1. Have a member of the class report on the personal joys that come to those who observe the Word of Wisdom. 2. Why do you suppose that temple work for the dead is so satisfying to those who perform the vicarious work? 3. How do you account for the fact that there has been such a great increase in the payment of tithes since the Church Welfare Plan began operation? 4. What is your personal feeling toward the doctrine of becoming reconciled to those who have offended you, as given in Matt. 5:23-24 and Doctrine and Covenants 42:88-89? 5. Why is the "abundant life' a truly happy life? 6. What relationship do you see between the 13th Article of Faith and the "abundant life" 7. What is the "abundant life" in the hereafter? References Bowen, Albert E.: Constancy Amid Change, pp. 27-42, 141-154. Smith, Pres. Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine,. 300-311, 341-350. Witnesses Articles of Faith, BP 4) Talmage, James E.: Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 206-209, 212-216. Widtsoe, John A.: Program of the Church, pp. 35-44, 93-101. LATITUDE Dorothy J. Roberts There must be winter, that no fraying leaf Hang in shreds and thin the summer shade; And this clean severing and harvest sheaf Of death, and seed, and a world, remade.  Social Science  The Family in the Gospel Plan Lesson 6 Constructive of Time Social Science Committee, Leone O. Jacobs, Chairman For Tuesday, April 22, 1946 "Thou shalt not idle away thy time" (Doc. And Cov. 60: 1) "ARE we getting the most out of life?" is a question worthy of serious consideration. Someone has said, "The people of America are getting nowhere fast." The tempo of life today is such that we may easily lose sight of the course which brings true happiness and contentment. Do we follow a pattern of life which includes the real values, or do we clutter up our lives with many nonessentials?
Are our lives ruled by chance, or by choice? Do we do the things that just happen to come along, or do we choose what we shall do because it yields good returns? With our lives so full, and with so many demands on our time, discrimination is important. "Wisdom consists not in knowing many things, nor even in knowing them thoroughly, but in choosing that which contributes most to our lasting happiness."
What are the essentials of life? What could well be eliminated? The National Safety Council puts out a little circular called "A Check List for Safety." It points out various essentials which should be examined in each home to ensure the physical safety of members of that household. Let us consider "A Check List for Safety" to ensure a well-rounded life, not only for physical safety, but for mental and spiritual safety as Religion Essential
The Savior said, "But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness; and all these things (meaning food and drink and clothing) shall be added unto you." Thus we learn that religion should be basic to our lives. It is a must on the check list for safety. Worldly pleasures and accumulations should only be added to spiritual development. The time spent in fulfilling religious assignments, attending Church meetings, in studying the gospel, and teaching it to our children, is an essential part of our schedule.
No time is better spent than that time devoted to personal and family prayers. Participating in family prayer can do much to closely unite a family and to fortify its members against each day's temptations.
Pray always, and I will pour out my Spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessings�yea, even more than if you should obtain treasures of earth and corruptibleness to the extent thereof (Doc. and Cov. 19:38).
LESSON DEPARTMENT 69 Since the gospel of Jesus Christ embodies all that is good and true, there is no danger of leaving out anything of value if we live the gospel in its fullest sense. It is part of our religion for us to use religion to do everything in our power to promote good health. This means many things: eating properly, abstaining from those things which are detrimental to health, getting sufficient rest, and some wholesome recreation. It is unwise for people to live at such a high speed that they endanger their health. Recreation We know that pleasure and recreation are also important to health and happiness, but there is a tendency today to overemphasize recreation. Young people, and many older ones, feel that if they do not go out several nights a week, the world is passing them by. Many social events are scheduled for each night, so that people are forced either to choose one and miss the others or, in some instances, to visit for a short period at several functions. This lessens the real enjoyment derived from any one occasion. When there is an excess of anything, it cannot be fully enjoyed. More pleasure is derived from one party, anticipated as a real occasion, than parties every night in the week, which become commonplace. Many people are surfeited with pleasure and cannot get happiness from simple recreation. Does being continually on the go bring peace and contentment, more love and appreciation of each other, and of life in general? Certainly not. We hear men reminisce about the pleasant times spent with old friends in throwing horseshoes or playing checkers. These are simple, leisurely pleasures, but filled with as much interest as many we might mention. Indiscriminate attendance at movies is detrimental, although some are worthwhile, many are more degrading than uplifting. A gentleman about sixty years of age was asked how he had enjoyed his recent trip to Yellowstone Park. "Oh, it wasn't much," he replied. "We were gone only 'four days, including going and coming, and we didn't have time to see much or stop along the way to visit anyone. Just hurry there and hurry back. But the trip I really enjoyed there was the one we took about thirty years ago, when we went with a team and wagon, and were gone a whole month. We had time to get a good look at the scenery before we sped by, and to get out and fish if we wanted, or to lay over an extra night if it stormed, and to stop and visit friends and relatives along the way. Ah! The good old days!" We do need more time to enjoy and appreciate the simple beauties around us. If the time of the Sabbath day is spent in pleasure seeking, the blessings of that day are forfeited. There is a purpose for the Sabbath day in our lives. If we abuse this day, and make of it a holiday, instead of holy day, we are depriving ourselves of a blessing we are forfeiting a part of a well-balanced life. People should plan their recreation for Saturday, at least for Saturday afternoons. And evenings may provide time in which to participate in most forms of recreation. Perhaps we have more pleasure seeking than is necessary, or even good for us. Maybe we affiliate ourselves with too many social organizations. More time in which to associate with our families and relatives would be beneficial. Which brings us to another "must". Family Association Love, and home and family associations are the mainsprings of life.  LESSON DEPARTMENT Children should be the prime consideration of every married couple, for they bring the greatest joy, and are the finest contribution to the world that it is possible to make. The home is no longer the center of association that it has been. It has become, in too many instances, just a place in which to sleep more or less a stop-over station between appointments. If we but realized it, the members of our immediate families are the people in all the world most interested in our welfare and happiness. The more closely we mingle with them, the richer will be our lives. One writer says: The family is that fellowship of parents and children, created and promoted through the sharing of vital interests. The relationship within the family is not a thing, a definitely and finally established bond, but is a process which goes on continuously among persons. When the interests shared are many and vigorous and significant, the relationship waxes warm and secure and precious. When the interests shared are few or weak or trivial, the relationship wanes, gets thin and illusory, becomes mechanized. Going through the form of getting married and the ordeal of having a baby does not automatically make a family. It provides the essential persons, but they must achieve the fellowship distinctive of a family before they are a family in spirit and in truth. Is there anything we can do to further this family spirit? Some people say, "Well, that's the way the world is today. There's nothing we can do about it." But society is made up of individual families, and we can slowly, but surely do something constructive about the activities of our immediate family. One very busy mother, who gives lessons in elocution, in addition to her household duties, drives with her husband quite often to another 71 town some forty miles away, on business. He likes her to accompany him, and no matter what she has planned for the day, she arranges to go with him. "First things first," she says, and she thinks her husband should be first. They are an unusually happy and harmonious couple. An old proverb says, "Consistency, thou art a jewel." Some mothers make a fetish of keeping the house spotless, but send the children out to play with no restrictions nor supervision, in order to keep the house clean. Some wiseacre said, "Some women are so antiseptic in housekeeping that a germ can't live in it, and a man won't." Still a clean house is important, but not as important as properly training and supervising a child, and in having a warm feeling of welcome and comfort in the home. No amount of time can be spent to better advantage than in training a child. One immaculate housekeeper says she sets herself certain duties to perform each day and, come what may, she does not stop until they are all finished. Such an attitude is not wisdom. Cleaning house is not so vital that time cannot be taken out for occasions of companionship and culture. It behooves us to take some little time in which to read the happenings of the day and the progress of science in other words, we should keep abreast of the times and store our, minds with the fine knowledge that is around us. Reading of inferior literature is definitely a waste of time and should be discontinued. "Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of," said Benjamin Franklin. Time is precious, and 72 each of us has the same amount at his disposal each day. The success of our individual lives is determined by how we use each short, twenty-four hours of time. Brigham Young said: Now, sisters, if you will consider these things you will readily see that time is all the capital stock there is on the earth; and you should consider your time golden, it is actually wealth, and, if properly used, it brings that which will add to your comfort, convenience, and satisfaction. Let us consider this, and no longer sit with hands folded, wasting time, for it is the duty of every man and of every woman to do all that is possible to promote the Kingdom of God on the earth (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 330; 1941 edition page 214). Questions for Discussion 1. What are the essentials of life? Z. Are people in general seeking pleasure too avidly? Discuss. 3. How may we slow down the pace of living? References Doctrine and Covenants, 93:53; 88:118. 124. Smith, Pres. Joseph F.: Gospel Doc trine, pp. 295-296.   TO A ROBIN IN WINTER Aileen M. Overfelt Poor little robin, so tired on the wing, Too late in the winter, too early for spring. Why did you linger, why didn't you go Before winter came with ice and with snow? Come into my cottage, my poor feathered friend, Stay here with me until the cold winter's end. Then sit by my window, the first day of spring, And caroling gaily, your happiness sing! DESERTED CABIN Maude Blixt Trone The little house that knew so much of singing, So much of laughter when the herders came, Is locked and shuttered tight against the stinging Of canyon blizzards; now there is no'flame To light the darkened forest; and no neighing Of saddle horses tethered to a post; No tinkling spurs, no stories, and no playing Of mountain music; no table laid, no host. The yard tree stands a dark and naked splinter; Those who went away will never know How desolate the little house in winter, How deep the snow. Accomplishment should always be the result when energy is expended. Yet, like a dizzily spinning top, many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished by the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is to help clients to plan printing that builds sales to take copy and dramatize it. Make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, and our experience puts us in a position to print your sales story so that it will get results. THE