[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 472 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Messages — Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine | H. Robinson]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants PREVIEW OF MESSAGES FOR 1063-64 } Christine H. Robinson HIS year's Visiting 'Teacher Messages "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants" are taken from Sections 64, 66, 67, 68, and 71. All of these Sections were given to the Prophet Joseph Smith during the fall of 1831. 'This was only approximately a year and a half after the restoration of the Church, and many of those who were preparing themselves for positions of leadership needed special instructions and encouragement to build the strong character qualities required by the growing Church. Many of these revelations were 470 given through the Prophet to specific individuals to strengthen and prepare them for the important work they had been called to perform. Consequently, the Lord emphasized the importance of the character qualities of forgiveness, perseverance, patience, and diligence. Emphasis was also placed upon the need of seeking knowledge and having faith that the Lord would answer the prayers of those who sought him diligently and confidently. Amet In the Church, also, there was a particularly great need for strength- ening the younger generation. In the revelations from which these messages were taken, particular stress was put upon the importance of the parents teaching their children to have faith in the Lord and to walk uprightly before him. As with all the truths in The Doctrine and Covenants, all of these instructions apply as much to us today as to the early members of the Church. In fact, among today's pressures and complicated problems, these messages have special application. If we accept and apply them, they will strengthen us and bring us success and happiness. The 1963-64 messages and their objectives are as follows: Message 49 — "Wherefore, I Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to Forgive One Another' (D & C 64:9). Objective: To show how forgiveness ennobles, enriches, and_ purifies our souls. Message 50 — "Wherefore, If Ye Believe Me, Ye Will Labor While It Is Called Today" (D&C 64:25). Objective: To demonstrate the fact that belief in the Savior motivates prompt, productive action. Message 51 — "Continue in Patience Until Ye Are Perfected" (D&C 67:13). Objective: To teach the value of continuous patience in striving for perfection. LESSON DEPARTMENT Message 52 — "Ask, and Ye Shall Receive; Knock, and It Shall Be Opened Unto You" (D&C 66:9). Objective: To emphasize the fact that to obtain blessings which are good for us, we must ask the Lord for them and seek them diligently. Message 53 — "And They Shall Also Teach Their Children to Pray, and to Walk Uprightly Before the Lord" (D&C 68:28). Objective: To emphasize the basic fact that children reared in_righteousness are among life's choicest blessings. Message 54 — "For Unto Him That Receiveth It Shall Be Given More Abundantly, Even Power' (D&C 71:6). Objective: To show that knowledge leads to more knowledge, and wisdom begets wisdom. Message 55 — "Wherefore, Be Not Weary in Well-Doing"? (D&C 64:33). Objective: LT show that great accomplishments come through doing small things well. Message 56 — "And Ye Shall Bear Record of Me, Even Jesus Christ, That I Am the Son of the Living God" (D&C 68:6). Objective: To emphasize the fact that a testimony of Jesus Christ, as the Son of the Living God, is the most important need in the world today. STATUS HE only kind of status that is worth while is not the envy, but the respect of my fellow men. —Celia Luce - 471 WORK MEETING PREVIEW OF DISCUSSIONS FOR 1963-64 Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler Objective: To point up the role of mother as executive homemaker, and indicate ways in which she may most effectively function. HE promise given to the ancient prophet Abraham, "... In thee shall all families of the earth be blessed," continues to bear fruit for those who love God and keep his commandments in these latter days. Women of Mormondom have a great part to play in bringing this promise to pass. In the early days of the Church, after the Kirtland Temple had been constructed, women came to the temple to complete the interior furnishings, and the Prophet said to them, "Well, Sisters, you are always on hand. 'The sisters are always first and foremost in all good works. Mary was first in the resurrection, and the Sisters now are the first to work on the inside of the temple." 'The woman's work today is the inner work in their homes. This first generation of women of Mormondom were religious empire builders in faith and fact, along with their husbands. 'They suffered expulsion, martyrdoms, and all the privations of pioneer living. Eliza R. Snow, who spent her life in service to her fellow men, was extremely gifted in spiritual discernment, and portrayed in her great poem, "O, My Father," a mother in heaven. This same faith is seen in the 472 second generation of women of Mormondom, as epitomized by the story of Zina Young Card, a daughter of Brigham Young, who with her husband, Charles Ora Card, went to Canada in 1887 to found the town of Cardston. 'Through faith and good works, she helped her husband establish a home place in that distant outpost. 'Their pioneer home was a log cabin built by her husband, and it was she who made it a sanctuary for their family through what she did to the inside as the first generation women worked on the temple at Kirtland. Experiences such as Sister Card's could be given by the dozens for second, third, and fourth generation women of Mormondom, but today's world is a different world. Modern inventions have taken much of the drudgery out of the modern home, but the need for keeping the spiritual qualities that characterized the homes in Kirtland, Nauvoo, the Salt Lake Valley, Cardston, and other pionecr communities must continue to be foremost in Latter: day Saint homes. The 1963-64 series of discussions are centered on planning. 'They are designed to help homemakers see their role in today's world, to bring into their homes love, faith, and good works, and teach these qualities to their children. I) i Planning ' Objective: To encourage family members actively to engage in planning sessions where all matters pertaining to family betterment may be studied and wise solutions developed. Pisvaissient Future Objective: To examine long-time family objectives and goals and plan for a training program consistent with them. SET - Pi mo } 4 Discus ( 1] j vat Objective: To view extravagant and wasteful practices in buying and _ using equipment and formulate guides for improvement. Discussion i2: Pl Resou Objective: To investigate methods of managing money to determine their LITERATURE @ (Textbook: America's Literature, by LESSON DEPARTMENT relative merits, and adopt the method consistent with family goals. Objective: To make the home a beautiful setting conducive to various types of family activity. Objective: To bring to life traditions and values of the past and plan special events to recognize current happenings that promote family solidarity. Objective: To study characteristics of family members and plan clothing wardrobes for all occasions, and to train each one to care for his own clothing. Objective: 'To plan constructively for family gatherings and trips that will encourage creativeness, initiative, and joyful working together of family members. Er ee tetat + America's Literature rd q Va aa om James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York) The Last Hundred Years Elder Briant S. Jacobs » PHLYSICIAN, heal thyself," are Christ's words as recorded in Luke 4:23. This admonition blend ed with that of knowing ourselves forms the objective during our last vear's study of the literature of the United States. A consideration of modern literai 


 ture can yield a mixture of pleasure and pain. Reading a more contemporary literature can yield an almost painful intimacy, since its events, scenes, sounds, and speech tones are those which have been as familiar as our shoelaces to us, our parents, and their parents. 'To recognize the familiar as it is seen through another's eyes, to "go home again," always quickens our memories with nostalgic pleasure, and warms our hearts. But in his nearly unbounded freedom and in his eagerness to re-create almost every human _ reality, the modern artist tells more than we would sometimes care to have told. He enables us to experience phases of our lives and times which, though undeniably true, are truths so harsh and unpleasant, so immediate and still so unresolved that we would prefer not to face them; instead, we long for the warm, serene beauties of the idyllic nature — home, and family, which dominated the Romantic literature written on both sides of the Atlantic before the Civil War. Yet no problem has ever been solved without its first having been faced and defined. Since the brutal saber-cut which the Civil War left across the face of the divided States, our literary spokesmen have increasingly abandoned the beautiful ideals and soothing cadences of the Romantics Irving, Emerson, Whittier, and Longfellow. During the past century America's leading literary artists have chosen to write more of everyday's stark and grim realities, depicted in words and images which are simple, ordinary, even flat. 'They have communicated to their contemporaries the increasing- 474 ly complex problems and frustrating conflicts of our modern world as I they have seen them. They have hoped that through their eyes and sensitivities, others, less gifted, may also see and understand, that out of their honest self-searchings, a collective self-knowledge and _ selfimprovement may be achieved. The period between the Civil War and the First World War was one of vast expansion. It was a time of transition, not only in the realm of acres and empires, transcontinental railroads and steampowered tools in factory, mine, commerce, and farm, but in the average American's relationship with his family, community, region, job, school, religion. In greater or less degree, all human _ relationships underwent change. The roots of the present-day existence were nurtured during this period. Since the Civil War differences have been merely differences of reproportioning and degree; the texture, the tone, the dilemmas remain the same. Another approach which proves how nearly the newly revealed national identity of the pre-1920's resembles that of the post-1930's ls to realize how fully at home one immediately finds himself in the significant writers of both periods. The new notes of Realism found in Emily Dickinson and Mark 'I'wain blend with the still-rmging overtones of Romanticism, just as they did in Whitman and Melville, significant transitional figures who wrote slightly earlier. Though Miss Dickinson's most condensed lines are startling, some of her subjects and moral crises are not unlike those of Twain. Howells, the pioneer and center of the Realistic movement in the United States, writes of the average American home in manner and purpose not entirely unlike that of Sinclair Lewis. Carl Sandburg's impassioned love for the folk en masse is a later edition of Walt Whitman, both in form and content, and Robert Frost and Willa Cather are dominated by a restrained, classical style and concept of man in nature worthy of comparison to Henry David Thoreau.