[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 462 | General Feature | Editorial: The 133d Annual | Church Conference]
EDITORIAL The 133d Annual Church Conference HE 133d Annual Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held in the historic Tabernacle, in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 5, 6, and 7, 1963. President David O. McKay,. Now in his ninetieth year, conducted all of the general sessions and the Saturday evening Priesthood meeting. He was assisted during the conference by his Counselors, President Henry D. Moyle and President Hugh B. Brown. Sister McKay also attended cofitereneeh and was lovniamy greeted as she entered and left the Tabernacle. Several of the General Authorities, presently serving as mission presidents, were excused from the conference sessions: Elder Mark E. Petersen of the West European Mission; Elder Theodore M. Burton of the European Mission; Elder Bruce R. McConkie of the Southern Australian Mission; Elder Marion D. Hanks of the British Mission; and Elder A. Theodore Tuttle of the South American Mission. Elder Levi Edgar Young of the First Council of Seventy was unable to attend the conference sessions on account of his health. It was estimated that some two million asap heard the conference proceedings either through their presence on 'Temple Square, by radio or television, or by special re-broadcasts in the early morning hours following each day's sessions. 'This was the greatest dissemination of the conference messages in the history of the Church. HE relationship of man to God and the role of the Church among the nations was presented in various phases of individual responsibility and service as missionaries and as examples of the commandments of the Lord. In his address on Sunday morning, President McKay spoke of the restored gospel as an ensign to the nations and declared that the worship of God, and helpful service to humanity are "the most ennobling of aspirations." The restored gospel, the Church, has reared an ensign to the nations, and. Invites the world to peace, to rest, to contentment. I invite you today to have in mind the various organizations of the Church: First, the Priesthood quorums; Second, the auxiliaries; Third, educational opportunities; Fourth, judicial phases of the Church; 422 Belle & Spaliord, Presidant Maticnne C Sharp, First Colinselo Louise W. Modsan, Second Counsals: Hulda Perter, Secratary-Treasurer and Fifth, the ecclesiastical groups.... Those who are active are working in an organized way for the betterment of one another, for the personal welfare of the membership, and for the good of society as a whole.... God bless and prosper the Church as it bears witness to the reality of the personality of Deity, and to the fact that God has again revealed himself to man, and established a means whereby spirituality, brotherhood, and universal peace may be fostered among the children of men. The Lord help us to be able to prove to the world that the restored gospel is just what the world today is longing for, and when they see it, may they know, as you and I know, that the everlasting gospel is a light to the world. RESIDENT Henry D. Moyle spoke of obedience to divine law as offering a solution to the problems of the world: The world is not just a watch that the Lord wound up and left to run down. By the exercise of faith men can call upon God and obtain his help in fulfillment of the promises he has made.... Christ's example and precept set in what is known as the Dispensation of the Meridian of Time control us today in our behavior and in our belief. This knowledge is priceless. The principles of the gospel can be understood and lived by all mankind. RESIDENT Hugh B. Brown declared that only the gospel of Christ can save the world from the dangers which threaten. Nothing but the gospel of love, the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, which we gratefully proclaim, can save the world or the individual from the dangers that threaten us. This is a gospel of character-building activity; of invincible faith and the courage that is born of faith; of repentance, the doorway to progress; of sanctification through baptism of watcr and of the Spirit, the doorway to the celestial kingdom. Let us take courage in the knowledge that Christ, the Prince of Peace, is at the helm. He has declared that the worth of souls is great in the sight of God. N delivering a farewell blessing to the saints, President McKay gave counsel and direction for the days to come: I am impressed with the thought everyone who has attended, either in presence or by listening in, no matter where he or she may be, must leave this conference with a greater determination to be a better man or a better woman; a better citizen of the town, county, or nation, than he or she has ever been before.... God help us to radiate strength, control, love, charity... Faith in God, love of humanity, service to his people wherever they are. 423 ESSENTIALS of the SHORT STORY Rosa Lee Lloyd [This article is presented as an aid for the authors who are preparing stories for entering in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May Magazine, and which closes August 15, 1963.I Beginning HE beginning of every story must have five steps: first, the character; second, the setting; third, the reason; fourth, the problem; then, the fifth step, the emotional reaction of your main character. These five steps can be stated very simply and in an easy way to remember: who, where, why, what's doing, and how your character feels about it. Reader Identification If your fifth step, the emotional reaction of your main character is done successfully, whatever. Your character feels your reader will feel. This is called "reader identification." Be sure to choose a story-idea that will appeal to the particular audience for whom you are writing. If it is a magazine for women, choose a subject that appeals to women. When writing for The Relief Society Magazine, your story might preferably be from the woman's point of view. Every single happening should be seen through her eyes and tell of her emotional reaction to it. 424 F'motional Struggle No matter what your story is about, the real struggle of the story is inside the mind of your main character, where, as one authority has said, two forces are fighting each other. At the end of the struggle your character must achieve something, learn something, or both. Let us suppose we have as our main character a wife and mother named Rachel, who is fearful for her children. The struggle which has been going on inside of her for many years is between her fear for their welfare and her love and desire for them to have the normal fun and activity that other children enjoy. Her husband is a capable, easygoing man who is athletic coach at the local high school. He has always objected to Rachel's fearful attitude toward their children. He is concerned with their safety and protection, also, but he wants them to express themselves bravely and fearlessly in normal activities. He symbolizes Rachel's desire for her children to be brave and active. Rachel has a younger brother who was thrown from a horse when he was a child and has a twisted spine. He symbolizes Rachel's fear for her children. This is the situation that has caused conflict in this family for many years. Story IncidentThe incident that is the immediate concern of this story is when their twenty-year-old daughter Peggy tells them she is in love with Johnny Grant, a bush-pilot from Australia. He has asked her to marry him and go to the bush country in faraway Australia. Conflict Rachel is overwhelmed with doubt and fear. The real struggle of the story is taking place in her mind, where fear for her daughter is fighting her love and desire for her happiness. Action The action and events in this story must show the mother's attempts to dissuade her daughter from this marriage and the father's attempts to convince his wife that she must be brave enough and trusting enough to let her go with their blessing. Black Moment There must be times in this story when it seems that Rachel has succeeded in making Peggy so fearful of life in the bush country that she will refuse to marry Johnny. This is the black moment when the negative force seems to be winning. ESSENTIALS OF THE SHORT STORY Scenes Your story must have dramatic scenes that build up to the crisis and the climax. Each scene must further the complication which is the difficulty your character faces. Transitions Have quick, easy transitions between the scenes. The editor or the present-day reader cannot take time to read long paragraphs of exposition. Crisis Each scene must lead up to the crisis where the reader holds his breath. It is the supreme predicament where the fate of your character hangs in the balance. The crisis is the turning-point in the difficulty your character faces. It determines the further action up to the climax and end of your story. Climax The crisis and climax in the short story should not be far apart. In a serial they may be as much as a chapter apart. Emotion Characterization is always related to emotion. When writing a-story you must ask yourself: what is the natural reaction of my character to such a situation? What will she do or be tempted to do? Always remember that even though people are different they have the same basic emotions. All fiction writing is based on emotion. 


 Theme At the end of the story I have outlined above, Rachel must learn to let her children live bravely and trustingly. Your story should say something worthwhile as its ultimate goal but you must not do this obviously. 'The action of the story must bring out its theme. The reader wants to be shown, not told. One magazine editor has said that if he felt differently about some phase of life after he read a story, he generally bought the story. Caution Do be careful not to make your story too emotional or your characters too sentimental. Tight, held-in, restrained emotion should be your aim in every emotional reaction. Then, when it does break through at the crisis and climax, it will have added effect. But, even then, it must be done with subtlety and finesse. Talent and Practice Your own talent and ingenuity are what make you want to be a writer, but the only way to learn to write a story is to write one. And then — another one. In any art, "practice makes perfect," and writing is an art and a profession. So good luck and good writing.