[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 418 | Special Feature | He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part I President | Brigham Young]
The Rehet society Magazine VOL. 

, NO. 6. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager Words of Love and Counsel HE following excerpts from the writings of Sister McKay which have enriched the pages of The Rehef Society Magazine in past vears are presented herc for the women of the Church. Thev offer glimpses of Relief Society activities of Sister McKay, and her teachings as an exemplary homemaker to the tens of thousands of women who love and esteem Sister McKay and wish her good health and happiness on her eighty-sixth birthday, June 23, 1963 [Editorial note]. CONFERENCE ON PREVENTION OF CAUSES OF WAR (From a letter wmtten to Mrs. Susa Young Gates, dated May 16, 1924, in Liverpool, England.) My dear Sister Gates: Your letter asking me to be a delegate to the International Convention of Women, at Wembley, came as a great surprise. I was delighted, though, and when a few days later a letter arrived from Lady Aberdeen inviting me very cordially to attend the convention, I wrote my acceptance. I want to thank you for this wonderful opportunity; it far excelled my expectations. The talks were all worth while and most of them especially fine and well delivered The exhibition at Wembley is an excellent one, especially the exhibitions of Canada, Australia, and West Africa. We had not much time for sightseeing between meetings and rushed away immediately after the closing of the convention; but we had a hurried view of most of it and enjoyed everything immensely. In Durham House we are housecleaning, papering, etc., with all their accompanying joys. A dry day has been looked for longingly that we might have our carpets beaten but not until today has the sun shone warmly. And even today the clouds had to loosen up a bit. Again with many thanks for your kind thoughtfulness, I am, Very lovingly, Emma Ray McKay (The Relief Society Magazine, August 1924, page 409) 


 ADDRESS AT RELIEF SOCIETY TORS CONFERENCE, APRIL 3, O say that I enjoyed my missionary work in Europe is expressing it mildly. I love the British country, even with all of its rain, and I love the British people, their genuineness, their honesty, and their quiet refinement. I was surprised at the richness of Germany and at the quality of her people. 'To see young girls there two hundred fifty of them in a Bible class with their Bibles all marked with red and blue ink, as the missionaries' Bibles are, and to hear them answer every question, was a delight. The scenery of Switzerland and Norway was a delight, even as our own mountain country is, and every country was so full of interest that my sojourn was a continuous joy. Nearly all the time we were associated with Latter-day Saints, so we felt right at home in whatever country we were visiting. We arrived in Europe at an opportune time when the conferences were on, and by the reports of the presidents I was able to learn early of the excellent work being done, notwithstanding the many difficulties they have to face continually. It was the desire of the president of the mission that the auxiliary organizations be up to the standard of the auxiliaries here, so we went into the details of Relief Society work. We instructed the officers regarding their duties and the di- 406 vision of responsibility of their work. We advised regular audits of Relief Society books, and Relief Society reports at quarterly conferences. Prayer meetings before regular Relief Society meetings were established and this brought the officers to the meetings in better time and brought also a better spirit in the meetings. The main thing established was the study of the regular lessons in the Magazine. The poet says so long as we love we serve, and so long as we serve others, we are indispensable. Relief Society women in Europe love to serve, and are indispensable in the highest sense of the word. Heaven blesses them for working as they do, notwithstanding the many difficulties they have to put up with. May we emulate their example. (The Relief Society Magazine, June 1925, Pp. 318-320) FAMILY PRAYER RUE prayer springs from the sincerity of the soul. To be successful in rearing a family to be true Latter-day Saints in every sense of the term, parents must be sincere. They must do as they pretend, perform what they promise, and really be what they appear to be. They profess to pay tithes; then the children should know that they pay an honest tithing. 'They are supposed to keep the Word of Wisdom; therefore, boys and _ girls should never see liquor, tea or cof- fee in the home. They are asked to have family prayers, and family prayers there should be. Prayer in the home leads children to God. It teaches them, as the Bible says, that He is a "rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." They learn that He is good, that He loves us, and that He is willing to help us if we have sufficient faith in Him to keep His commandments. Listening to father as an example, the child learns to improve his prayers, to keep them from being prayers of pure selfishness, to pray not so much for earthlv things as for light, strength, and courage to carry on, and, if he lacks wisdom in something that seems very vital to him, to ask advice from Him who "giveth to all men liberally." (The Relief Society Magazine, April 1942, PP: 254-255) CONTROLLING CHILDREN Y experience has taught me that a mother's control over a child is lost or gained during the first few years of its life. Many a young mother with a smattering of psychology, who thinks correction will ruin her children's will power, lets them follow their own desires whether wise or unwise. Proper guidance in youth will prevent undesirable tendencies and encourage confidence in later life. Wise direction is not arbitrary, but kind and firm. Children should follow their own desires so long as WORDS OF LOVE AND COUNSEL these desires do not prompt them to be destructive, do not impose upon others, or do not injure the children's characters. (The Relief Society Magazine, July 1943, page 365) «A MESSAGE TO RELIEF SOCIETY ECAUSE of many accomplishments achieved by Relief Societies while Church edifices are being built, I wish to commend all you wonderful women who spend many days, weeks, and months in helpful service, painting, preparing new buildings for use, cooking and serving banquets, and taking on added responsibilities in the home while husbands are working on projects. May our Heavenly Father bless you with especially good health to endure this sublime service. (The Relief Society Magazine, August 1956, page 501) CLEANLINESS 6 'CLEANLINESS is next to Godliness"' is a quotation familiar to everyone. Godliness is defined as "The careful observance of the laws of God." We desire to keep the laws of God and, if cleanliness is next to the observance of these laws, we certainly should have a desire to be clean, whether it be in body, mind, or heart. While cleanliness of our homes and habits, considered hygienically, is of great importance, its effect up- 407 Emma Ray Riggs at Sixteen Years of Age on the character of the members of the household is very important, for, generally, as the home is, so is the child. Now, as to the cleanliness of the soul. In Psalms we read, "He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart... Shall stand in his holy place" (Psalms 24:4, 3), and in the New Testament, Paul says, "... Let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God." Begin very early with your little girl to build a strong character that she may be able to resist uncleanliness whether physical, mental, or moral. Then, if gentleness, kindness, love, cleanliness, and morality exist in the home, she can look upon the wickedness of the world in disdain and disgust at the low thoughts on the screen and in publications and they will influence her character not one whit. Teach her that according to The Book of Mormon "... Neither can filthiness or anything which is unclean be received into the kingdom of God..." (Alma 7:21). (The Relief Society Magazine, November 1957, pp. 716-718) x Ke K K Picture on opposite page: Sunlight and Summer, Eastern Slope of Mount Timpanogos, Utah. Photograph by Willard Luce. &, nal neliness F £ an: reli hy al > I trange La ' Christie Lund Coles & grown lonely for the loneliness ystal sky, and distant stretch of hill *: oa". R+ On hill; the notes of cowbells. Growing still, f On. Country evening; for the quietness — if. Yelyet-cushtoned night, while gentleness Ee fs. Jin the fouth ef rising winds that fill _ mae The fingered tranches of the poplars, till * Feds hey brush thé lifted hand with their cares: — - am Been so alone, and known such acrid pain, w yearn for yearning which I knew when y. Hich was part of stillness and still spaces,. Ae.; eWaiting the silver touch of valley rain. °° % Lhe: longlinessy+hag 0 pure sky, Age ts.

He "6 F a Pe 2 # have been lonely in such crowded places, ~ rf f —— — = He Knew the Prophet RIGHAM Young was born at Whitingham, Vermont, June 1, 1801. He was the ninth of eleven children born to John and Abigale Howe Young. The family was poor and Brigham did not have an opportunity to attend school; the total time that he attended school was only "eleven days." When Brigham Young reached the age of fourteen, his mother died, and from that time on he made his way alone. He went to work and gradually learned the carpenter's trade. At the age of twenty-three he was married to Miriam Works of Port Byron, New York. In 1829 they were living in Mendon, New York, the parents of two daughters. A copy of The Book of Mormon, printed in Palmyra, New York, in 1830, was soon afterwards put into his hands. He believed what he read and was baptized and became a member of the Church. Due to his diligence as a member of the Church, his rise was rapid. In 1835, he was chosen as a member of the first Quorum of 'Twelve Apostles; in 1841 he was made the President of the 'I'welve, and in 1848, after the death of Joseph Smith, he became the President of the Church. During the twenty-nine years that he led the Church, due to his great ability and judgment, he left it securely founded, as upon a rock. The man who restored the gospel 410 Joseph Smith Part I — Presipenr BricHAaMm Younc and the organization of the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith, he regarded as the greatest man who had lived since Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Following are a few of the comments which President Brigham Young made, during his lifetime, about the Prophet Joseph Smith: "What I have received from the Lord, I have received by Joseph Smith; he was the instrument made use of" (Journal of Discourses 6:280). "I feel like shouting Hallelujah all the time, when I think that I ever knew Joseph Smith, the Prophet, whom the Lord raised up and ordained, and to whom he gave keys and power to build up the Kingdom of God on earth and _ sustain it. These keys are committed unto this people, and we have power to continue the work until everything is prepared for the coming of the Son of Man" (Ibid., 3:51). "Joseph Smith has laid the foundation of the Kingdom of God in the last davs; others will rear the superstructure" (Ibid., 9:364). E HO can say aught against Joseph Smith? I was as well acquainted with him as any man. I do not believe that his father and mother knew him any better than I did. I do not think that a man lives on the earth that knew him any better than I did, and I am bold to say that, Jesus Christ excepted, no Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian better man ever lived or does live upon this earth. I am his witness" (Ibid., 9:332). "Many of the Prophets have sealed their testimony with their blood, that their testament might go forth with force and not return void. As in ancient days, so in modem days. When Joseph Smith sealed his testimony with his blood, his testament from that moment was in force to all the world; and woe to those who fight against it" (Ibid., 19:5). "The question was asked a great many times of Joseph Smith, by gentlemen who came to see him and his people, "How is it that you control your people so easy. It appears that they do nothing but what you say; how is it that you can govern them so easily?' Said he, 'I do not govern them at all; the Lord has revealed certain principles from the Heavens by which we are to live in these latter days. The time is drawing near when the Lord is going to gather out his people from the wi: ked and he is going to cut short I is work in righteousness, and the principles which he has revealed, I have taught to the people and they are trying to live according to them, and they control themselves" (Ibid., 13:176). "My name is had for good and evil upon the whole earth, as promised me. Thirty years ago Brother Joseph, in a lecture to the Twelve, President Brigham Young From a portrait by C. R. Savage, said to have been one of the last portraits of President Young. Said to me, "Your name shall be known for good and evil throughout the world,' and it is so. The good love me, weak and humble as I am, and the wicked hate me; but there is no individual on the earth but what I would lead to salvation, if he would let me. I would take him by the hand like a child and lead him like a father in the way that would bring him to salvation" (Ibid., 10:297). "From the day that Joseph obtained the plates, and previous to that time, the Lord dictated to him. He directed him day by day and hour by hour (Ibid., 8:66). "Joseph continued to receive revelation, ordinance upon ordinance, truth upon truth, until he obtained all that was necessary for the salvation of the human family" (Ibid., 16:42). 411 66 PF IE. Still, little worm," Marjorie laughed down at her tiny son, as she wrestled with kicking chubby legs and squirming fat body, pinning on his napkin. "Don't you know we're going to be late?" Swiftly, with practiced hands, Marjorie finished dressing her baby, her eye anxiously glancing at her watch — ten minutes before the bus came. Thank goodness she had only to the end of the block to run. As she pulled on the tiny white socks and attempted to push small, perversely arched feet into the shoes, she checked through in her mind the last-minute jobs to be done before she went off to Relief Society. As usual, it was going to be splitsecond timing, but she could make it. "There now, Chris, my boy," she told him, popping him down on the carpet. "Be good for one minute, then off we'll go." With a gurgle of joy at his release, he crawled promptly over to the open drawer. Sighing, she let him, leaving him to pull out the baby clothes onto the floor. No time to thwart or 412 Ruth Nicholson Pepper Corrimal East, fl INS N. S. W., Australia; m Aa ae "$ i) distract him — at least it would keep him out of other mischief until she was ready herself. Quickly she slipped on her coat and popped comb, handkerchief, gloves, and extra napkin into her basket. Let's see, she thought, as she went through to the kitchen, purse, Relief Society Magazine, Chris' formula, a rusk, just in case he began to feel the pangs of hunger before she returned at lunchtime. All ready? No. Sister Peterson had reminded them all last week to bring their sewing equipment. As Marjorie quickly went to her sewing box, there was a knock on the back door. "Marjorie, are you there, dear?" It was Mrs. Renton, a neighbor. Marjorie was dismayed for a moment. She was going to be late for sure, now. Opening the door to her talkative neighbor, she said, "Oh, hello, Mrs. Renton." "Oh, you're on your way out. I won't keep you a minute then, dear. I wondered if you had any mixed spice you could lend me until I can send Ron down to the store. I just started making those special cookies of yours and find I'm all out of spice." "Yes, of course, Mrs. Renton. I think I have some here, up in the cupboard." She went to have a look. "I'm just on my way for the nine-forty bus," she added, hoping that Mrs. Renton would take the hint. "Going anywhere nice?" she asked, easing her plump self into a kitchen chair. "It's Relief Society morning," Marjorie answered quickly, trying to keep calm as she saw her neighbor was going to take her time. "I don't know how you manage to get out as much as you do, with a voung baby and three at school. When mine were small I never went anvwhere — just didn't have the time. Now I'm older, I'm not well enough, of course." "You should come one 'Tuesday with me to Relief Society, Mrs. Renton, when you're feeling better. You would enjoy it," answered Marjorie, hoping upon hope that Mrs. Renton wasn't going to launch forth on the subject of health. Not now anyway. ORMALLY, Marjorie was only too happy to take time off to listen sympathetically to Mrs. Renton's troubles, with her indifferent health and her teenage family worries, but time was fast running out. Anxiously, she glanced at the kitchen clock. Four minutes to lock up and get to the end of the block. "Thank you, dear, I will one of these days." Mrs. Renton took the packet of spice. "I suppose I'm holding you up." Thankfully, she saw Mrs. Renton slowly get to her feet. "That's all TUESDAY IS RELIEF SOCIETY right, Mrs. Renton. I'm all ready. I've just to lock up the back door, then we can both go through the front,' she answered. "Better not forget young Chris." Mrs. Renton chatted on, following her, as she went for Chris, who was playing gaily on the floor, surrounded by half his entire wardrobe — rompers, shirts, socks, and pants. What a mess — but it would have to wait until she returned. Scooping up the little fat bundle, she hurried through to her bedroom and slid her stockinged feet into her high heels, then back again into the kitchen. "All ready?" Mrs. Renton asked, and as Marjorie picked up her basket, she nodded. "Yes, I think Pll just make it," she answered. She locked the front door behind them, and as they went up the path, Marjorie found herself half running, half walking, unconsciously chafing at having to match Mrs. Renton's ponderous steps. "What are you doing this morning at Relief Society?" her neighbor asked curiously. "You seem to have good lessons, judging by those Magazines you lend me." "It's work meeting morning. We are discussing home management. It's good for me,' Marjorie said hurnedly. "Then Sister Peterson promised to teach us smocking afterwards." 'Then she remembered. "Oh, dear, ['ve forgotten my sewing things!" She looked at Mrs. Renton, undecided. Had she time to slip back and get them? If the clock had been nght,. The bus was due any moment. 


 UT the decision was made for lner. "Here, give me Chris and I'll walk to the bus with him," said Mrs. Renton, suddenly brisk. "If the bus comes I'll ask the driver to wait a moment for you." With thanks for her helpfulness, Marjorie handed over her baby and dashed back to the house, running to her sewing box and popping the articles she would need into her basket. Slamming the door and locking it behind her again, she glanced up the path. A red-haired salesman, brief case in hand, greeted her cheerily. "Not today — [ll miss my bus," she almost panted. "Sorry!" And she ran past him, out of the gate and up the street once more. The bus passed the top of the street, slowing down to a halt just around the corner of the block. Mrs. Renton, with little Chris, was nowhere in sight. She hoped the driver could be persuaded to wait! As she rounded the corner, the bus was still there. Mrs. Renton was walking towards her, with her married daughter, who had apparently just got off the bus. But where was Chris? Mrs. Renton was carrying her own little grandson. "Chris is on the bus — a lady has him." "Thank you." Marjorie tried to smile, but couldn't help feeling annoyed that her neighbor had given her son to a stranger to mind. Suppose the bus had gone? She did not have time to dwell on it, though, and she was glad to jump on board. 'The bus began to move off even before she had thanked the driver for waiting or 414 paid her fare. Slipping her ticket into the basket, she glanced around at the faces before her, searching for her baby. Curious faces stared up at her; disinterested faces turned away — blank faces. No Chris. Must be up the back, Marjorie thought, and as the bus gathered speed, she walked unsteadily up the aisle looking to each side for the woman who had her baby. Y the time she was two thirds of the way along the bus and she could see all the occupants, she felt a small niggle of doubt in her heart. Where was Chris? Don't be silly, Marj, she told herself, as she turned around, he's probably up in front, after all. But he wasn't. Panic rose in her throat like a choking hand, and as she looked around frantically, the bus almost swaying her off her feet, she tried to stay calm. 'Trembling, she made her way back to the driver. She must ask him to stop and let her get off. 'There had been a mistake. Her baby was not on the bus. Just as she was about to speak, a woman came up behind her. Darkhaired and slim, she smiled in a hard way, pointing to Marjorie's Relief Society Magazine in_ her basket. "If you want to know where your baby is, look on page 27, and be there at noon today." Hardly knowing what she did, Marjorie obeyed, sinking into an empty seat beside her. Page 27 — it was a picture of a park. A park? She did not understand. She did not understand anything! Marjorie looked up for the woman to explain, but she had gone. Unbelievingly, the word kidnapped went through her mind. The woman, the red-haired salesman, Mrs. Renton — had they all been in the plot to kidnap her baby? What was happening? Where was her baby? She must stop the bus. She was weeping now, the tears rolling down her cheeks. "Stop the bus — please — my baby — I've lost my baby!" She could hardly speak for the sobs in her tight throat, and the bus driver did not hear hon "Mv baby." TUESDAY IS RELIEF SOCIETY GOMEONE began to shake her by the shoulder, gently and insistently, and her husband's sleepy voice was at her side. "Wake up, sweetheart — you're dreaming." "What? It's Chris." She opened her eyes and saw Don in the darkness. "I'm dreaming," she repeated, still not quite awake, and she could feel the wetness of her cheeks. Slowly she smiled with utter relief. "Thank goodness." When morning came it would be Tuesday, and she would go to Relief Society.
