[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 473 | Lesson | Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Virginia | F. Cutler]
[Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Virginia F. Cutler]

PREVIEW OF DISCUSSIONS FOR 1963-64
Dr. Virginia. Farrer Cutler
Objective: To point up the role of mother as executive homemaker, and indicate
v^^ays in which she may most effectively function.
T^HE promise given to the ancient
shall p raolplh efta m iAlbiresa h aomf, t h"e. . e .a ir nt h t h ebee
blessed/' continues to bear fruit for
those who love God and keep his
commandments in these latter da\s.
Women of Mormondom have a
great part to play in bringing this
promise to pass. In the early davs
of the Church, after the Kirtland
Temple had been constructed, women
came to the temple to complete
the interior furnishings, and the
Prophet said to them, ''Well, Sisters,
vou are always on hand. The
sisters are always first and foremost
in all good works. Mary was first
in the resurrection, and the Sisters
now are the first to work on the inside
of t he temple." The woman's
work toda\' is the inner work in their
homes.
This first generation of women
of Mormondom were religious empire
builders in faith and fact, along
with their husbands. They suffered
expulsion, martyrdoms, and all the
privations of pioneer living. Eliza
R. Snow, who spent her life in service
to h er fellow men, was extremely
gifted in spiritual discernment, and
portrayed in her great poem, "O,
MyT h iFsa t h esra,m"e a f maiotthh e ris i sne e hn e a vienn . the
second generation of women of
Mormondom, as epitomized by the
story of Zina Young Card, a daughter
of Brigham Young, who with
her husband, Charles Ora Card,
went to Canada in 1887 to found
the town of Cardston. Through
faith and good works, she helped her
husband establish a home place in
that distant outpost. Their pioneer
home was a log cabin built by her
husband, and it was she who made
it a sanctuary for their family
through what she did to the inside
as the first generation women
worked on the temple at Kirtland.
Experiences such as Sister Card's
could be given by the dozens for
second, third, and fourth generation
wwoormledn i s o fa Mdiofrfemroenntd owmo,r ld .bu t M otoddeary'ns
inventions have taken much of the
drudgery out of the modern home,
but the need for keeping the
spiritual c|ualities that characterized
the homes in Kirtland, Nauvoo, the
Salt Lake Valley, Cardston, and
other pioneer communities must
continue to be foremost in Latter
dav Saint homes.
The 1963-64 series of discussions
are centered on planning. They are
designed to help homemakcrs see
their role in toda\ 's world, to bring
into their homes love, faith, and
good works, and teach these quahties
to their children.
jjiSCLission 9: 111c r
Planning Group
ainih
Objective: To encourage family members
actively to engage in planning
sessions where all matters pertaining
to family betterment may be studied
and wise solutions developed.
Discussion 10; Flannmg tor the
Future.
Objective: To examine long-time
family objectixes and goals and plan
for a training program consistent
with them.
Discussion 1 1 : Planning the Conservation
of F amily Resources
Objective: To view extravagant and
wasteful practices in buying and using
equipment and formulate guides
for improvement.
Discussion 12: Planning the Use of
Resources
Objective: To investigate methods of
managing money to determine their
LESSON DEPARTMENT
relative merits, and adopt the method
consistent with family goals.
Discussion 13: Planning Exterior
Upkeep of the Home
Objective: To make the home a
beautiful setting conducive to various
types of family activity.
Discussion 14: Planning the Preservation
of F amily Traditions
Objective: To bring to life traditions
and values of the past and plan special
events to recognize current hapdarity.
penings that promote family soli-
Jjiscussion 15: Planning Proper
Familv Grooming
Objective: To study characteristics of
family members and plan clothing
wardrobes for all occasions, and to
train each one to care for his own
clothing.
Discussion 16: Planning the Family
Vacation and Recrcntion
Objective: To plan constructi\ely for
family gatherings and trips that will
encourage creativeness, initiative, and
joyful working together of family
members.
(Textbook: AmcTicas Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdcs.
Dryden Press, New York)
PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1963-64
The Last Hundred Years
Elder Briant S. Jacobs
''piIYSICIAN, heal thyself," are forms the objective during our last
Christ's words as recorded in \car's study of the literature of the
Luke 4:23. This admonition blend- United States,
ed with that of knowing ourselves A consideration of modern litera-ture can yield a mixture of pleasure and pain. Reading a more contemporary literature can yield an almost painful intimacy, since its events, scenes, sounds, and speech tones are those which have been as familiar as our shoelaces to us, our parents, and their parents. 'To recognize the familiar as it is seen through another's eyes, to "go home again," always quickens our memories with nostalgic pleasure, and warms our hearts. But in his nearly unbounded freedom and in his eagerness to re-create almost every human _ reality, the modern artist tells more than we would sometimes care to have told. He enables us to experience phases of our lives and times which, though undeniably true, are truths so harsh and unpleasant, so immediate and still so unresolved that we would prefer not to face them; instead, we long for the warm, serene beauties of the idyllic nature — home, and family, which dominated the Romantic literature written on both sides of the Atlantic before the Civil War. Yet no problem has ever been solved without its first having been faced and defined. Since the brutal saber-cut which the Civil War left across the face of the divided States, our literary spokesmen have increasingly abandoned the beautiful ideals and soothing cadences of the Romantics Irving, Emerson, Whittier, and Longfellow. During the past century America's leading literary artists have chosen to write more of everyday's stark and grim realities, depicted in words and images which are simple, ordinary, even flat. 'They have communicated to their contemporaries the increasing- 474 ly complex problems and frustrating conflicts of our modern world as I they have seen them. They have hoped that through their eyes and sensitivities, others, less gifted, may also see and understand, that out of their honest self-searchings, a collective self-knowledge and _ selfimprovement may be achieved. The period between the Civil War and the First World War was one of vast expansion. It was a time of transition, not only in the realm of acres and empires, transcontinental railroads and steampowered tools in factory, mine, commerce, and farm, but in the average American's relationship with his family, community, region, job, school, religion. In greater or less degree, all human _ relationships underwent change. The roots of the present-day existence were nurtured during this period. Since the Civil War differences have been merely differences of reproportioning and degree; the texture, the tone, the dilemmas remain the same. Another approach which proves how nearly the newly revealed national identity of the pre-1920's resembles that of the post-1930's ls to realize how fully at home one immediately finds himself in the significant writers of both periods. The new notes of Realism found in Emily Dickinson and Mark 'I'wain blend with the still-rmging overtones of Romanticism, just as they did in Whitman and Melville, significant transitional figures who wrote slightly earlier. Though Miss Dickinson's most condensed lines are startling, some of her subjects and moral crises are not unlike those of Twain. Howells, the pioneer and center of the Realistic movement in the United States, writes of the average American home in manner and purpose not entirely unlike that of Sinclair Lewis. Carl Sandburg's impassioned love for the folk en masse is a later edition of Walt Whitman, both in form and content, and Robert Frost and Willa Cather are dominated by a restrained, classical style and concept of man in nature worthy of comparison to Henry David Thoreau.