[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 468 | Lesson | — PREVIEWS FOR 1963-64 | ]
[— PREVIEWS FOR 1963-64]

These important items furnish the Latter-day Saint with a key for understanding much of the reLESSON DEPARTMENT mainder of the book, as well as the revealing of events from premortality to the end of the earth. In a lesson for this year a brief preview is given of the revelations received during the year 1831. This material will provide an opportunity to see the revelations from a different perspective — the view of great principles that testify to their truth. In this same lesson one is brought to grips with a concept of every citizen of the kingdom of God as a steward. The 1963-64 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Objective: To poimt out that he who repents of his sins and forsakes them is forgiven of the Lord. Arc on the Lord's Objective: 'To suggest ways in which the saints of 1831 were on the "Lord's errand,' and what this term means to us. Objective: 'To learn that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God that was prophesied will stand forever. Objective: To appreciate more fully the manner in which scripture is made, the preparation necessary to know scripture, and the development of the revelations into a volume of scripture. 


 Lesson 53 — The Bishopric; Parenthood (D &C 68:7-35). Objective: 'To examine some aspects of the bishop's calling and also the responsibility of parents to their children. Lesson 54 — Stewardships; A Review (D&C 70, 72).

Objective: To learn the importance of stewardship, the work of the bishop, and the contributions of a year's revelations. Lesson — Missionary Service (D&C 71, 73, 74 75). Objective: To realize that the restored gospel, through the missionary program, is the key to happiness in this life and eternal joy in the life to come. Lesson 56 — The Book of Revelation (D&C 77). Objective: 'To glean important items of instruction of revealed latter-day knowledge from the revelation given to John the apostle on Patmos.