[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 402 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

When I opened my mailbox today, a treasure lay within my box, Relief Society Magazine. I have never been without access to this precious Magazine since I was old enough to read it. First, I enjoyed it in my mother's home, and for almost forty-five years have had it in my own home. It has given me as much inspiration as any factor in my life. I have loved all the issues which have featured President McKay and Sister McKay. To see their dear faces and learn more about their lives have made me very happy, and given me a desire to follow their example. This is also true of the lovely women who are chosen from time to time to be members of the General Board of Relief Society.
—Annie E. Esplin
Orderville, Utah

I appreciate the Magazine so much. In the January issue I enjoyed the addresses by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen. These articles are so timely, with the styles of dress as they are today. I think every teenager and parent would profit by reading these articles. Every bit of the Magazine is beautiful — the poetry, stories, articles, features, lessons, the color work, pictures, and the gorgeous covers. I have read aloud to my husband and children the serial "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Smith and when little Jill was lost, my children could hardly wait for the next issue to arrive.
—Mrs. Darwin Thompson
Salmon, Idaho

May we express our appreciation for the beautiful Relief Society Magazine. The March issue is more than outstanding — it is wonderful! The wards in our stake have all commented on this issue for its lovely illustrated pages, and the many informative articles. The article by Christie Lund Coles "We Can't Be Perfect" we feel is so timely that we plan to use it for our summer message for June
—Della H. Teeter
President
Denver West Stake
Relief Society

My March issue just came and it is a beauty! I just love the color illustrations. The sewing articles are especially interesting to me. My daughters, four and seven, want to have a cooking party, too.
—Lois Sundberg
Downey, California

I would like to renew my subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. It really isn't much if you consider what you get for it, and in such a handy small size. When you are sick, it is not too heavy to hold, and if you have to wait in the doctor's office or bus depot, the Magazine is easy to take along in your purse and read it there. I am still the only woman Church member here in Yorkton, so there is no Relief Society. So that is why I appreciate the Magazine doubly.
—Hendrika Blomwaert
Yorkton, Saskatchewan
Canada

I would like to thank Sister E. Thomas Lloyd of Salt Lake City for her kindness in sending me a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. I think it is an inspiration to our women. I have been a member of the Church for over forty years. It was not, however, until 1960-61 that the Relief Society was started in the potteries. The Church here had been closed for about thirty years. In July 1960 four elders came to the potteries district. They were Elders Seely, Barnes, Tucker, and Lloyd, the latter being a son of our dear Sister Irene Lloyd. The branch which these boys founded in my home has grown to almost eight hundred members.
—Doris Wiggins
Stoke-on-Trent
England

402
