[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 424 | Special Feature | Safety Makes Sense Irmagene N. Hollo way | ]
[Safety Makes Sense Irmagene N. Hollo way]

He has always objected to Rachel's fearful attitude toward their children. He is concerned with their safety and protection, also, but he wants them to express themselves bravely and fearlessly in normal activities. He symbolizes Rachel's desire for her children to be brave and active. Rachel has a younger brother who was thrown from a horse when he was a child and has a twisted spine. He symbolizes Rachel's fear for her children. This is the situation that has caused conflict in this family for many years. Story IncidentThe incident that is the immediate concern of this story is when their twenty-year-old daughter Peggy tells them she is in love with Johnny Grant, a bush-pilot from Australia. He has asked her to marry him and go to the bush country in faraway Australia. Conflict Rachel is overwhelmed with doubt and fear. The real struggle of the story is taking place in her mind, where fear for her daughter is fighting her love and desire for her happiness. Action The action and events in this story must show the mother's attempts to dissuade her daughter from this marriage and the father's attempts to convince his wife that she must be brave enough and trusting enough to let her go with their blessing. Black Moment There must be times in this story when it seems that Rachel has succeeded in making Peggy so fearful of life in the bush country that she will refuse to marry Johnny. This is the black moment when the negative force seems to be winning. ESSENTIALS OF THE SHORT STORY Scenes Your story must have dramatic scenes that build up to the crisis and the climax. Each scene must further the complication which is the difficulty your character faces. Transitions Have quick, easy transitions between the scenes. The editor or the present-day reader cannot take time to read long paragraphs of exposition. Crisis Each scene must lead up to the crisis where the reader holds his breath. It is the supreme predicament where the fate of your character hangs in the balance. The crisis is the turning-point in the difficulty your character faces. It determines the further action up to the climax and end of your story. Climax The crisis and climax in the short story should not be far apart. In a serial they may be as much as a chapter apart. Emotion Characterization is always related to emotion. When writing a-story you must ask yourself: what is the natural reaction of my character to such a situation? What will she do or be tempted to do? Always remember that even though people are different they have the same basic emotions. All fiction writing is based on emotion. 


 Theme At the end of the story I have outlined above, Rachel must learn to let her children live bravely and trustingly. Your story should say something worthwhile as its ultimate goal but you must not do this obviously. 'The action of the story must bring out its theme. The reader wants to be shown, not told. One magazine editor has said that if he felt differently about some phase of life after he read a story, he generally bought the story. Caution Do be careful not to make your story too emotional or your characters too sentimental. Tight, held-in, restrained emotion should be your aim in every emotional reaction. Then, when it does break through at the crisis and climax, it will have added effect. But, even then, it must be done with subtlety and finesse. Talent and Practice Your own talent and ingenuity are what make you want to be a writer, but the only way to learn to write a story is to write one. And then — another one. In any art, "practice makes perfect," and writing is an art and a profession. So good luck and good writing.