[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 422 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

In his address on Sunday morning, President McKay spoke of the restored gospel as an ensign to the nations and declared that the worship of God, and helpful service to humanity are "the most ennobling of aspirations." The restored gospel, the Church, has reared an ensign to the nations, and. Invites the world to peace, to rest, to contentment. I invite you today to have in mind the various organizations of the Church: First, the Priesthood quorums; Second, the auxiliaries; Third, educational opportunities; Fourth, judicial phases of the Church; 422 Belle & Spaliord, Presidant Maticnne C Sharp, First Colinselo Louise W. Modsan, Second Counsals: Hulda Perter, Secratary-Treasurer and Fifth, the ecclesiastical groups.... Those who are active are working in an organized way for the betterment of one another, for the personal welfare of the membership, and for the good of society as a whole.... God bless and prosper the Church as it bears witness to the reality of the personality of Deity, and to the fact that God has again revealed himself to man, and established a means whereby spirituality, brotherhood, and universal peace may be fostered among the children of men. The Lord help us to be able to prove to the world that the restored gospel is just what the world today is longing for, and when they see it, may they know, as you and I know, that the everlasting gospel is a light to the world. RESIDENT Henry D. Moyle spoke of obedience to divine law as offering a solution to the problems of the world: The world is not just a watch that the Lord wound up and left to run down. By the exercise of faith men can call upon God and obtain his help in fulfillment of the promises he has made.... Christ's example and precept set in what is known as the Dispensation of the Meridian of Time control us today in our behavior and in our belief. This knowledge is priceless. The principles of the gospel can be understood and lived by all mankind. RESIDENT Hugh B. Brown declared that only the gospel of Christ can save the world from the dangers which threaten. Nothing but the gospel of love, the restored gospel of Jesus Christ, which we gratefully proclaim, can save the world or the individual from the dangers that threaten us. This is a gospel of character-building activity; of invincible faith and the courage that is born of faith; of repentance, the doorway to progress; of sanctification through baptism of watcr and of the Spirit, the doorway to the celestial kingdom. Let us take courage in the knowledge that Christ, the Prince of Peace, is at the helm. He has declared that the worth of souls is great in the sight of God. N delivering a farewell blessing to the saints, President McKay gave counsel and direction for the days to come: I am impressed with the thought everyone who has attended, either in presence or by listening in, no matter where he or she may be, must leave this conference with a greater determination to be a better man or a better woman; a better citizen of the town, county, or nation, than he or she has ever been before.... God help us to radiate strength, control, love, charity... Faith in God, love of humanity, service to his people wherever they are. 423 ESSENTIALS of the SHORT STORY Rosa Lee Lloyd [This article is presented as an aid for the authors who are preparing stories for entering in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May Magazine, and which closes August 15, 1963.I Beginning HE beginning of every story must have five steps: first, the character; second, the setting; third, the reason; fourth, the problem; then, the fifth step, the emotional reaction of your main character. These five steps can be stated very simply and in an easy way to remember: who, where, why, what's doing, and how your character feels about it. Reader Identification If your fifth step, the emotional reaction of your main character is done successfully, whatever. Your character feels your reader will feel. This is called "reader identification." Be sure to choose a story-idea that will appeal to the particular audience for whom you are writing. If it is a magazine for women, choose a subject that appeals to women. When writing for The Relief Society Magazine, your story might preferably be from the woman's point of view. Every single happening should be seen through her eyes and tell of her emotional reaction to it. 424 F'motional Struggle No matter what your story is about, the real struggle of the story is inside the mind of your main character, where, as one authority has said, two forces are fighting each other. At the end of the struggle your character must achieve something, learn something, or both. Let us suppose we have as our main character a wife and mother named Rachel, who is fearful for her children. The struggle which has been going on inside of her for many years is between her fear for their welfare and her love and desire for them to have the normal fun and activity that other children enjoy. Her husband is a capable, easygoing man who is athletic coach at the local high school.