[Vol19 | December 1932 | Sequence: 20a | Category: Lesson | Title: Theology and Testimony - Authority to Act in the Name of God]

Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (first Week in February ) Doctrine and Covenants AUTIUORITY TO ACT IN THE NAME OF GOD LESSON V 1. 'We believe that man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority, to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof." This declaration of faith sets forth in plain and unmistakable terms the attitude of the Church with respect to the rights which man must possess if he would act authoritatively in the name of God. According to the beliefs of the Latter-day Saints this authority, although vested in certain members of the early. Christian Church, was not present on the earth at the time of the restoration of the Gospel to Joseph Smith and his associates. It had been lost along with many of the principles and ordinances of the Gospel in the early Christian centuries. For this reason it became necessary to bring the Priesthood back to the earth, that again man might have authority to act in the name of God. 2. Meaning of the Term Priesthood. The term "Priesthood" as used by the Latter-day Saints has a dual meaning; it applies both to the authority or commission to act in the name of the Lord and to the individuals who possess this authority. The powers and functions of the Priesthood have nothing in common with those of the sectarian priest who is regarded by his parishioners as the medium through which worship, prayer, and other religious services are offered to the Lord. Indeed, such a conception is the very antithesis of the purpose of the Priesthood held by the Latter-day Saints, which not only authorizes the laymen and all others who hold it to go directly to the Lord but actually to function in his stead; whereas, the sectarian priesthood often serves as a kind of barrier between the laymen and God. 3. The Priesthood held by the Latter-day Saints is more than a functional matter, authorizing its holder to officiate in the name of Deity;; it is a power or influence that gives weight and efficacy to the thing done. In other words, a man possessing the Priesthood not only has the right to act in the name of the Lord, but the thing that he does is binding and effective. In_ still other words, the Priesthood is a special delegation from the Father, enabling those who are faithful to function in His stead, and thus to accomplish various things which would be impossible without the possession of this authorization. 4. President Young has made a very illuminating statement with respect to the nature of the Priesthood. Here it is: "If anybody wants to know what the Priesthood of the Son of God is, it is the law by which the worlds are, were. And will continue for ever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them, gives them their revolutions?their days, weeks. Months, years, their seasons and times and by which they are rolled 742 up as a scroll, as it were, and go into a higher state of existence." In a word, then, the Priesthood is the very power of God. Let us now give attention to the restoration of the Priesthood in latter days. 5. Priesthood Absent from the Earth. At the time of Joseph Smith's first vision the Lord spoke in no uncertain terms of the churches concerning which Joseph had inquired. After stating that their creeds were an abomination in his sight and that their professors were all corrupt, he continued, "They draw near me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof." (History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 6) This scathing denouncement was doubtless intended primarily for those who had exhibited such marked hypocrisy in the religious revival through which Joseph had just passed, rather than for the sectarian world generally as some may have thought. It was later made very clear however that the Priesthood was not upon the earth and therefore that no one was empowered to act in the name of God.
6. Bestowal of the Aaronic Priesthood. As early as September 21, 1823, the Lord promised that the Priesthood should be restored. (D. And C. 2:1) On the 15th day of May, 1829, when Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were fervently importuning the Lord for information concerning baptism, reference to which had been found on the plates that they were translating, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light, and having laid his hands upon them said: "Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the Gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness." (D. And C., Section 13)
7. The messenger said that his name was John, the same that is called John the Baptist in the New Testament, and that he was acting under the direction of Peter, James, and John, who in due course of time would confer upon Joseph and Oliver the Priesthood of Melchizedek. Having explained that the Aaronic Priesthood does not have the power of laying on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, he instructed that Joseph should baptize Oliver and afterwards that Oliver should baptize Joseph. After this was done Joseph ordained Oliver to the Aaronic Priesthood; then Oliver in turn ordained Joseph, also in compliance with command. The spirit of prophecy was enjoyed by Joseph and Oliver, both of whom predicted many things that should shortly come to pass. (History of the Church, Vol. I, pp. 39-42) Joseph explains that with their minds thus enlightened they were able to understand the meaning and intention of the scriptures much more clearly than before.
8. Restoration of the Melchizedek Priesthood. Although the Melchizedek Priesthood is known to have been conferred upon Joseph and Oliver by Peter, James, and John only a short time after John the Baptist's visitation, yet no specific account of the event is given in the Prophet's history or in any other of the Church annals. The Prophet himself however makes allusion to it in the course of an ecstatic review of the great things which the Lord had revealed to him, in the following language: "The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county, and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehanna river, declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times." (D. And C. 128:20)
9. In a revelation dated August, 1830, the Lord himself makes direct reference to the restoration of the higher Priesthood through the instrumentality of Peter, James, and John. He is speaking of the sacrament and promises to drink of "the fruit of the vine" with Joseph Smith upon the earth, "also with Peter and James and John, whom I have sent unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be apostles, and especial witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry, and of the same things which I revealed unto you; unto whom I have committed the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last times; and for the fulness of times, in the which I will gather together in one all things, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth." (D. And C. 27:12, 13) From the statement of Joseph and this one of the Lord it is apparent that the restoration occurred on the Susquehanna river some time between May 15, 1829 and August, 1830.
10. Another revelation dated April, 1830, contains a statement referring to Joseph's ordination, as follows: "which commandments were given to Joseph Smith, Jun., who was called of God, and ordained an apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the first elder of this Church." (D. And C. 20:2) It is of course evident from this statement that Joseph Smith had received the higher Priesthood prior to this time.
11. In still another revelation, dated June, 1829, in which the calling of the Twelve Apostles is made known, the following statement is addressed to Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer: "I speak unto you, even as Paul mine apostle, for you are called even with that same calling with which he was called." (D. And C. 18:9) Since this statement would scarcely be made unless these men had already been ordained to the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood, it is evident that the restoration promised by John the Baptist occurred some time between the fifteenth of May and the close of June, 1829.
12. Power of the Priesthood. Thus at this early date in the history of the Church the Lord had restored full authority to man to act in his name. The lack of limitations to the authority of the Priesthood is well expressed in the following words: "Whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." (D. And C. 128:8) Speaking to Joseph Smith the Lord also said: "Whatsoever you seal on earth shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever you bind on earth, in my name and by my word, saith the Lord, it shall be eternally bound in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you remit on earth shall be remitted eternally in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you retain on earth shall be retained in heaven." (D. And C. 132:46)
13. Responsibility of the Priesthood. The authority of the Priesthood is not without its grave responsibilities. Its proper exercise is invariably associated with acts of righteousness and never with sin and disobedience. It encourages men to do good and shun evil. It governs by kindness and never by force. Apropos to this, the Lord has said "That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood or authority of that man." (D. And C. 121:36-37)
14. The Gift of Prophecy. The Priesthood not only provides its holder with authority to accomplish the purposes of the Lord as above indicated but to do many other things that would be impossible without it. Consider, for example, the prophecy of Joseph Smith with respect to the American Civil War, (D. And C. 87:1-8) in which he foretold not only its coming and the precise locality at which it would begin, but also the parties involved and the identical nation upon which one of the participants would call for help. These and many other details were foretold with a prescience absolutely unnatural to human beings.
15. Necessity of Using the Priesthood. This brings us directly to the consideration that not every man who holds the Priesthood really profits by its possession. The Priesthood, like any other gift from God, can be developed only by faithful and persistent use. One of the strangest aspects of living things is that intelligent use increases efficiency, whereas disuse results in atrophy and decay. The fact that a man's mind, for example, develops by use constitutes one of the basic mysteries of life, and yet no one questions its reality. Moreover, there is little room for doubt that man's eventual salvation will be brought about by the development of his talents through exercise. The possession of the Priesthood without using it is no more profitable than the ownership of, say, a good automobile locked in the garage, indeed, far less, for God will not hold an individual blameless who thus disregards his privilege.
16. Widespread Participation. The Priesthood is intended for every son of God who is prepared to receive it. Accordingly, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the Priesthood is widely held by the male laity, as well as by those in official positions. The equality of this practice is immediately apparent, especially in comparison with the practice of sectarian churches in which the presiding and other functional offices are reserved for a chosen few. The superiority of the Latter-day Saint practice is further apparent when it is borne in mind that personal participation is the only satisfactory means by which permanent progress is possible. Still another advantage is at once apparent. Consider the efficiency of our Church councils composed, as they usually are, of men from a wide variety of trades and professions. Surely the conclusions of such men are likely to be far better adapted to the needs of the masses than the conclusions of councils composed exclusively of clergymen.
17. And this is not all. Every male member in the Church is given some specific duty to perform, especially adapted to his capacity. With a working Priesthood of this nature, far greater efficiency is assured than in churches where the clergy alone are active. Moreover, the Priesthood of the Church possesses the actual authority to act in the name of God, and therefore its works are recognized of him.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Questions for Discussion and Review
Discuss the meaning of the term Priesthood. Give the details of the bestowal of the Aaronic Priesthood. Prove that the Melchizedek Priesthood was received soon after the bestowal of the Aaronic Priesthood. Explain the unlimited powers of the Priesthood. Why is activity necessary in connection with the Priesthood? Why is it desirable that the Priesthood should be widely held by Church members?