[Vol19 | December 1932 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Dr. Romania B. Pratt Penrose Annie Wells Cannon]
Dr. Romania B. Pratt Penrose By Annie Wells Cannon "A wondrous gift thou hast, I know thy power, To help the sick, to comfort in distress; Greater than riches is the potent dower, The magic touch that charms like a caress.

"Tis good to do such deeds of usefulness, To be so calm, so wise, such skill to lend; To brave the world with such deep earnestness One cannot prize too highly such a friend." written expressly for Dr. Penrose, beautifully express the thoughts of the many friends who knew her and have felt the tenderness of her ministrations.

The death of Doctor Romania B. Penrose which occurred November 9, 1932, marks the passing of one of the most prominent and beloved women of Mormondom.

Dr. Romania measured up to the best as daughter, wife, mother, friend.

She neither failed nor wavered at any task assigned her, nor any duty imposed, reserving always the right to maintain her dignity and self-respect.

In the profession which she so efficiently filled through a period of thirty-five years, she was not only the physician but the sympathetic motherly nurse; in her social relations, friendly, sincere and helpful; in her church affiliations loyal and devout. is above lines, part of a poem FEW women are endowed with more gracious qualities.

She possessed a brilliant mind, a keen sense of humor, a constant desire for knowledge that never left her.

Even in the last few years of her retired invalidism she kept her mind in touch with the world's progress.

Through the mediums of the press and radio, like one in the midst ?E. B. Wells.

Of the day's turmoil.

These qualities primarily enabled her to meet life's exigencies bravely, to overcome difficulties, which only too frequently beset her path, to solve problems which might have dismayed one less courageous and make life always interesting and worth while.

R. ROMANIA was a beautiful woman without the aid of fine adornment, small in stature, refined in nature, with clear cut features and, in her younger years, a wealth of soft brown hair which hung in natural curls over her shoulders.

In looks much the type of Elizabeth Barrett Browning.

Nevertheless she was fond of pretty things and in her travels along life's 'way possessed herself as far as her means permitted of pieces of rare lace, fine china, soft furs and rare books which perhaps too often she bestowed upon her friends for hers was a generous soul.

She possessed many accomplishments acquired in her youth where in private schools she was taught music, art, and German, besides the usual scholastic training.

These accomplishments not only added to her attractions but served as a means of support when in the early days in the 'valley she had to help her widowed mother support the family.
