[Vol19 | December 1932 | Sequence: 20b | Category: Lesson | Title: Teachers' Topic - The Beatitudes]

Teachers' Topic
THE BEATITUDES
Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives.
"Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy." (Matt. 5:7)
President Brigham Young says "men should love mercy, because of its benevolence, charity, love, clemency, and all its lovely attributes, and be inspired to deal justly, fairly, honorably, meting out to others their just deservings. When a man designedly does wrong, he ought to be chastised for the wrong, receiving according to his works. If a man does wrong through ignorance, and manifests sorrow for the wrong, he is the one whom we should forgive seventy times a day, if necessary, and not the one who has designedly done wrong and repents not." (Discourses of Brigham Young.)
The Parable of the Unmerciful Servant (Matt. 18:23-35) shows us that mercy is for the merciful. "As a heavenly jewel it is to be received with thankfulness and used with sanctity, not to be cast into the mire of undeservedness." (Dr. Talmage's "Jesus the Christ.")
We are told that our salvation is made dependent upon our showing mercy to every creature that can feel. Every act of cruel amusement or cruel punishment, as well as every wanton act of cruelty, is strictly forbidden. It should be remembered that cruel speeches no less than cruel acts are forbidden by the commandments. Words can lacerate more deeply than stripes.
Many incidents of experiences with Indians in Pioneer days illustrate the statement "that the merciful man shall find mercy." The Lord is always merciful and kind. If we draw near unto Him, He will draw near unto us. "Seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto us." (Doctrine and Covenants 88:63.) Our chief trouble is we do not seek diligently. Our seeking is superficial, we seem to think the Lord is bound to hear us without our putting forth much effort. Let diligence and love be our guides, and we shall find the path to eternal life.
The Prophet Joseph Smith says. "Ever keep in exercise the principle of mercy, and be ready to forgive our brother on the first intimations of repentance and asking forgiveness, and should we even forgive our brother, or even our enemy before they repent or ask forgiveness, our Heavenly Father would be equally as merciful unto us."
The habit of charitable judgment of others is a source of personal blessedness. It blooms out into hopefulness, peace and faith. To forgive an injury is a blessing to the forgiver himself. The quality of mercy blesses him that gives as well as him that takes. Among the happiest of people are those whose grudges and enmities have been overcome by their own broader view of life. "It is as though in the midst of winter the warmer sun were already softening the frost. They are happy, not because others are kinder to them, but because that softer soil permits their own better life to germinate and grow. The merciful has obtained mercy; the blesser has received the blessing." (Mornings in the College Chapel ?Francis Greenwood Peabody? Chapter XXVI.)