[Vol54 | June 1967 | Page 426 | Fiction | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Miss Groesbeck, who was born in Ogden, Utah, has been a teacher in several Utah school districts, and is at present a Professor of Music at B. Y. U. 426 Shirlee Stade Blackner (Mrs. Keith Blackner), Lyman, Wyoming, is one of the best known home economists in the United States. In 1966, she was awarded the 4-H Alumni Key in national competition. She was her State's delegate to the Triennial Conference of the Associated Country Women of the World, at Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1950. Mother of four children, she has served as an officer and a teacher in the auxiliaries of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and has been a ward Relief Society president. Mrs. Lurleen Wallace, newly elected Governor of Alabama, mother of four children, has announced that her administration will reflect ''the inner feelings of a wife and mother,'' and that she will advocate programs to increase the welfare of families. She is the third woman governor in the history of the United States. The others were Nellie Tayloe Ross of Wyoming and Miriam Ferguson of Texas (both elected in 1924). Zara Nelsova, distinguished cellist of international acclaim, and wife of Utahn Grant Johannesen, world-famed pianist, performed with the Utah Symphony Orchestra in March 1967 in an outstanding presentation of Ernest Bloch's '"'Schelomo"' (Solomon) in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. This rhapsody has been called '"'ancestral... The voice of sages and prophets,' and Miss Nelsova's interpretation of the music was _ pronounced by critics as "definitive. Magnificent... Evocative.'' Synopsis: Nora Blake, alone in the world, secures a schoolteaching position in Banner, Idaho, where she lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latter-day Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a local rancher, and young Ben Wade, an orphan, who lives with Jed. Nora is astonished to find out that Jed cannot read and she offers to teach him. Finding a piece of land open for homesteading, Bishop Shepherd suggests to Nora that she homestead it. A mysterious elderly man, called Old Free, a non-Mormon, challenges Nora's interest. =» Nora returned to the barn to tell Sam about Trudy's death. Old Free stopped milking and sat listening. "Tell them not to worry about the coffin," he said. "I'll make it." He brought it to the house the following afternoon. It was made of cedar, polished to a fine finish.