The Evolution of the Post

When men settled in cities, it was found an absolute necessity to establish an exchange of messages between governments and individuals, especially between the governing classes and the soldiers of the nation who were out upon war expeditions. Swift runners and horsemen, with relays for each, were the primitive modes of communication between such towns, nations, and individuals. The post, which is the term all nations use in modern times, was originally a place on which to stick notices and to mail messages. At the time of Christ, in Herod's day, relays of men and horses carried mail bags with messages and letters all over the then civilized world. The Great Kahn, in China, had an elaborate postal system as described by the famous traveler, Marco Polo. Savages and men in the earliest dawn of history have used some such methods for exchanging ideas and conveying messages.

Europe, after the dark ages, adopted a comprehensive system of regular postal conveyance. Spain and Germany allowed the public generally, as early as 1544, to use the Royal Postal System; while Paris, even in the thirteenth century, had mailing regulations and an interchange with all parts of the French kingdom. The powerful guilds established posts for their own especial use throughout Europe, and while this postal system was largely confined to the nations as an interior convenience, various foreign posts were established and placed under royal control. By the sixteenth century nearly all the governments had assumed entire control of the various postal systems established by the guilds, or private enterprises, and the whole matter was taken under government control in the European nations.

For centuries, however, the expenses borne by the public for this service were very conflicting and confusing. Not only did prices vary according to the distances traveled, but they were further complicated by weight of the mail package or letter, and by the importance of the message to be conveyed. In our own country the progressive Pilgrim Fathers, as early as 1639, had established a comprehensive system of postal convenience. One Richard Fairbanks, who owned a large house in Boston, opened it as a central depot for mail from all parts of the provinces. The governor of New York, in 1672, established a monthly post from New York to Boston, and in 1692, a postmaster general was appointed for the American colonies. In 1711, both the colonies and all of the English mailing systems were taken over by the government under parliamentary law.

An Old-time Stage Coach, in Salt Lake City

Benjamin Franklin was the last colonial postmaster, and his clear brain and quick vision suggested a number of reforms in the clumsy system then in vogue. It was not, however, until 1836, that real modern reforms were introduced into mailing systems. The famous Englishman, Roland Hill, advocated, and finally, after strenuous opposition, carried into effect his bill in parliament which made a one price postage, a more frequent carriage of mail, and a more regular system of delivery. With the incoming of the railroads naturally this reform spread throughout all civilized nations.

In 1842, England carried 196,500,191 letters. In 1857, after Roland Hill's reforms, there were carried 504,421,000. Our own western America has witnessed the evolution of THE EVOLUTION OF THE POST 625 mailing systems so rapidly that we have experienced in three-quarters of a century all the mailing systems known to civilized and uncivilized countries.

Across our western prairies and bleak mountain chains, first came an infrequent, irregular pony express, while the Indian runner was still carrying his messages from tribe to tribe, and lighting his beacon fires from hilltop to hilltop. The picturesque Pony Express rider, who exchanged horses and finally traveled only between government army posts, scattered from the Missouri to California, was himself a part of the picture painted for us in the stories of those dark ages when men in Europe were only half civilized and half savage.

As the wilderness grew gradually populous, the buckboard rider and finally the rumbling two-decker stage-coach thundered from post to post in all the pioneer glory of spans of leaping horses, drivers with long snapping whip lashes, and passengers thrown from side to side, both within the Mail and Express Car coach and on top, as the vehicle careened from side to side on the rough mountain roads. Our western coaches did not attempt any of the musical accompaniment of horn blowing, which formed so vital a part of the English and European mode of travel and mail carrying in earlier days.

Robbers there was occasionally in the western wilds, and some shooting scenes sometimes gave color and romance to this thrilling mode of travel, now so obsolete that the youth of today exclaims in wonder at the clumsy stage-coach which was a fixed part of those earlier years of the writer's own youth, state. With the incoming of the railroad, in 1870, the stagecoach receded a little farther into the mountain fastnesses, and lost its priority as a mail-carrier, becoming merely an appendage to the snorting iron horse, which whistled its way from ocean to ocean.

Gradually even the stage-coach was superseded in its far-away retreats, for the last fifteen years has introduced the automobile and banished forever the mail carried in coach or buck-board, and they are forgotten by the children of today even in our remotest fastness. Now enters a still newer development of that system of message-carrying which covers the whole earth with a network of postal relays carried by steam and gas. Up in the air we already have the heralds of glad tidings, and mail has soared from the confines of the earth into the mystic upper realms of the future.

On the first air mail ship which crossed the continent in regular passage came a letter to this office from St.