Entertainments For November

Morag.

"Thanksgiving day is the one national day which turns on home life. It is a day of nature, a day of thanksgiving for the year's history."

"A typical Thanksgiving dinner represents everything that has grown in all the summer fit to make glad the heart of man."

"It is not a riotous feast. It is a table piled high, among a group of rollicking young and the sober joy of the old, with the treasures of the growing year, accepted with rejoicings and interchange of many festivities as a token of gratitude to Almighty God. Remember God's bounty during the year. Give this one day to thanks, to joy, to gratitude." — Henry Ward Beecher.

Thanksgiving is essentially a home or family holiday, and we recommend that wherever it is possible, families gather together and share the joy and spirit of the occasion as well as the expense of the day's feast and the work of preparation. In one family the mother and each of her married daughters and sons' wives meet and consider the menu for the day. The best of the suggestions offered are decided on, and each home is responsible for one part of the feast. This plan is very successful, and this family always celebrate the holiday together.

A Thanksgiving Dinner Without Turkey.
Bouillon, creamed fish in rice patty shells, roast leg of mutton with dressing, cauliflower, mashed potatoes, rye bread and butter, pumpkin pie, raisins and nuts.

An Economical Thanksgiving Menu.
Potato soup, rabbit stew, boiled hominy, stewed cabbage, beetroot pickle, buttermilk corn bread, apples preserved cider, parched rice coffee, with brown sugar.

A Thanksgiving bazaar or fair is timely, because it is truly American and recalls Puritan days. Booths: At the Indian booth let Indian maidens sell baskets, bead work, carpets, rugs, etc. The John Alden booth is presided over by a John Alden in Puritan costume, and is devoted to gifts suitable for men's needs. At the Priscilla booth, sell needlework, fancy work and women's wear. The Puritans' supply ship is in charge of a sailor boy, and is the grab bag. The Miles Standish booth is devoted to students' needs. Here can be purchased handkerchiefs, comfort bags, stationery, etc. The Peregrine White booth in honor of the first American baby born on American soil is devoted to the sale of baby clothes and toys. At the Popcorn booth sell various kinds of popcorn, home-made candy. Serve a Thanksgiving supper, and conclude with an entertainment given by the Indians, Puritans, and other booth attendants in costume.

Tableaux from "The Courtship of Miles Standish." Hiawatha would be appropriate. On the second night give a costume character ball.

A Chrysanthemum Shower.
One of the pleasant memories of childhood days spent in England was the annual chrysanthemum service. This was usually held on the first Sunday in November. The church was decorated with autumn leaves and flowers, and each member of the congregation contributed one or more bouquets of "mums." These ranged from the gorgeous, long-stemmed greenhouse variety to the humble bunch of hardy varieties from the home garden. To each bunch was attached a card with appropriate sentiment or scripture text. Special music and addresses suitable to the occasion were given, and after the service the flowers were gathered and taken to the infirmaries and hospitals.

Our beautiful "Indian Summer" weather often makes possible a generous supply of chrysanthemums, cosmos, etc., and a service as suggested above could be easily planned. In the smaller communities the flowers could be sent to the sick mothers or the shut-ins, where there are no hospitals near at hand.

For a chrysanthemum party, decorate the house and the tables with the flowers; have a large bunch of white or pink ones near the door where each guest may take a buttonhole bouquet. Cover the light globes with Japanese lanterns, and let the Japanese idea prevail through the party. If possible, have a talk on Japan, its customs, or people.

For refreshments serve: rice muffins with curried chicken, chrysanthemum salad, rice wafers, and cherry punch.

Chrysanthemum Salad.
Boil potatoes, cut in long strips as for French fried; arrange a nest of lettuce leaves with potatoes to form the flower. A ring of hard-boiled egg forms the center. Pour dressing over all. If a sweet salad is desired, use strips of banana, orange, and pineapple, with whipped cream.

Suggestive Program for Flower Service.
Hymn, Invocation. "Earth with her ten thousand flowers." Hymn, "Make the world brighter." Reading, (a) "Give them the flowers now," (Heart Throbs); (b) "Harvest hymn." (John G. Whittier.) Suggested topics for address: "Out of the door in the west," "Flowers of the Bible lands," "The home flower garden," "Mission of the flowers."

We find in the last number of the "Reclamation Record," September, 1920, the following most interesting recipe:
AUNT MARGARET CLAWSON'S CREAMED CHICKEN. (By H. T. Cory, former consulting engineer in charge of soldier-settlement work, southern division.)
One chicken, pints cream, little thickening.
Cut chicken into small pieces, salt and put in hot frying pan until outside is golden brown. Then pour boiling water over it and let simmer until just ready to fall from the bones. Let water boil down so that juice boils back into chicken and browns a golden brown. If chicken is not fat, put in butter to brown.
Take chicken out and add cream and little by little sift in white flour until gravy is rather thick. Put chicken and gravy in big hot dish and serve. Fine with jelly on side and corn fritters and mashed potatoes.

Aunt Margaret Clawson was the second of four wives of Bishop Clawson, private secretary to Brigham Young, and ambassador of the "Mormon" Church, in its contention with the government. Aunt Margaret was considered the cook par excellent of the "Mormon" Church.
("The Record" is the government weekly organ of the U.S. Agricultural Department at Washington, D.C., and contains a Cook Book Department, where this item appeared.)