ON THE WATCHTOWER 655 Fast mail air service between New York and San Francisco was inaugurated by the government on September 8. Prices of iron and steel manufactures, and of cotton and woolen goods, fell off about 30 per cent in the United States in September. Alexandre Millerand was elected president of France on September 23, succeeding Paul Deschanel, whose mind has become impaired. A world justice court is now proposed with which to settle international difficulties, and to eliminate objections to the League of Nations. Great Britain was threatened in September by chaos in business. The miners' strike set for September 25 was, however, postponed until October. An earthquake in northern Italy on September 7 and 9 resulted in over 1,400 deaths, many thousands of people homeless, and vast destruction of property.

Three Socialists, because of membership in the Socialist party, were expelled from the New York legislature on September 21, and two others resigned in protest. Moses married Elizabeth Reeves, aged 85, in Salt Lake City on September 95. They are said to be the oldest couple ever joined in wedlock in Utah.

Ireland's troubles with Great Britain were more aggravated than ever in September, there being more than 100 killed, many hundreds injured, and much property destroyed.

Japan and the United States are negotiating a settlement of the question of excluding the Japanese from this country. It is not likely that Japan will go to war with the United States.

Lithuania and Poland, both members of the League of Nations, were at war in September. They agreed to submit their difficulty to the league council, then immediately resumed hostilities, without waiting for the council to act.
 
An explosion in front of the United States sub-treasury in New York, on September 16, killed 35 people, injured 200 others, and did great property damage. Whether it was the work of anarchists or an accident has not been determined.

Italy had a semi-revolution in September, which almost overthrew the form of government. The labor unions took over a great many industrial plants and held them. The government made a compromise, but further trouble seems imminent.

Dr. Herbert L. Samuels, Jewish lord high commissioner in Palestine, took complete charge, on September 21, of the country immediately east of the Jordan, formerly occupied by the Twelve Tribes of Israel, and was greeted with satisfaction by the Arab population.

Mrs. O. P. Belmont, of New York, head of the National Woman's party, made announcement on September 22 that "the men better not oppose women in their effort to wrest from men a fair share of control of life in its every aspect." Just what she means was not made clear.

Garfield county, Utah, has the first large-scale operation scheme under the Smoot oil leasing act, a government license therefor having been issued to an Ohio company with $500,000 capital. Thirty-seven and one-half per cent of the royalty comes to the state of Utah.

Two banks in Utah, one at Morgan City, and the other at Sugarhouse, Salt Lake City, were robbed on September 24, each of about $10,000, by four men. Two of these were captured by the Salt Lake police early that evening, and the other two were taken a few hours later.

Twenty-seven million women in the United States were qualified to become voters by the adoption of the nineteenth amendment to the constitution. In September, the legislature of Connecticut ratified the amendment, so that it is effective regardless of the action of Tennessee, whose vote was questioned.

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Motto — Charity Never Faileth

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS President
MRS. CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS First Counselor
MRS. JULIA L. SMITH Second Counselor
MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN General Secretary
MRS. SUSAN YOUNG GATES Corresponding Secretary
Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon
Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry
Mrs. Came S. Thomas
Dr. Romania B. Penrose
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox
Miss Sarah McLelland
Mrs. Emily S. Richards
Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde
Mrs. Juha P. M. Farnsworth
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crimson
Miss Sarah Eddington
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie
Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler
Miss Lillian Cameron
Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director
Miss Edna Coray, Organist

 
Editor- - - - - - - - - SUSA YOUNG GATES
Business Manager _--_-_- JANETTE A. HYDE
Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. VII November, 1920 No. 
Let Us Give Thanks
Latter-day Saints find much to be grateful for, every day in the year, every moment in the day, for life, for the gospel of Jesus Christ and a testimony of its truth; for comparative health, and reasonable prosperity; for family, home, children, and friends; but I have an especial glow in my soul this Thanksgiving season, and I wonder if my friends will not share my joy with me: I am so glad that I am a woman. It was not always so!

When youth and high ambitions claimed my life, I thought I was dissatisfied with womanhood and all its limitations. I fretted with my sex and came to mental grips with frequent motherhood and with my crowded walls of home and labor. I was so young, so burdened. I thought — alas, do others think like me? — that pain and care and swift discouragement could all be shed aside, were I a man!

My river of life flowed on, now swift, now turbid, yet oftentimes clear as crystal, with sweet refreshing strength. Time and long experience drew me on and gradually there came to me a joy that I was just a woman — mothering my growing sons; and not them alone, but scores of other mothers' sons came into my heart and life and built about my soul a bulwark of support which made my natural weakness into rivets with which to bind men's hearts to mine.

Then, too, both girls of mine, and many, many girls of other mothers, found my arms and heart, and I could cuddle all their hopes and aims within my own abysmal sadness, the while I petted them and taught them how to lay their burdens down at Jesus' feet. And that was also very sweet.

To feel that through the iron bars which bound my soul in sex-restraints my willing hands and tender love could be to all of these a present help which men can rarely give.

At last my prison changed — so gradually yet so happily — into a moated castle where peace and safety dwelt for pilgrims, while war and wild assault were kept at bay by all my legion of loving male defenders. They loved the strife and swift reprisal, while I leaned softly on my limitations and came to thank my God that he had made me just a woman.

Unless you've travelled all this dreary road which I describe you will not catch my meaning; but anyway, let us all give thanks for wifehood, motherhood, and most of all, for tender, gentle, helpful, womanhood.

Again, this year, the Utah Health Associations are appealing to the people generally, to buy Red Cross Seals so that funds may be provided to carry on the fight against tuberculosis in this state. The cost is trifling and yet if all buy a few cents' worth of stamps the result will be both successful and surprising.