LESSON III Literature (Third Week in April) Robert Louts Stevenson In this age, which has been characterized time and again as the child's age, it would seem unpardonable to present a course in modern poetry without devoting at least one lesson to poetry for children. Today the reputation of some of our modern writers depends largely on their output of children's verse. Even Louis Untermeyer has turned into that field, while the verse for children written by Christina Rosetti is pretty generally known. In this lesson we shall present the child's poetry of Robert Louis Stevenson. When we think of the long struggle with ill health, which Robert Louis Stevenson had during his productive period, we are reminded of another great Scotch writer, Sir Walter Scott, the difference being that Robert Louis Stevenson's ill health covered a much longer period than that of Sir Walter Scott. When we think of his burial we call to mind the American writer, Joaquin Miller, whose ashes were also placed on a promontory overlooking the Pacific Ocean, the difference in this case being that Robert Louis Stevenson was buried on one side of the Pacific and Joaquin Miller on the other. Robert Louis Stevenson was born in the cultural center of Scotland, Edinburgh, at Number 8 Howard Place, on the 13th of November, 1850. It was our pleasure while visiting Edinburgh to mark the spot in a tour of the city. He was the son of Thomas Stevenson and Margaret Isabella Balfour. Even as an infant he was very fragile. In 1858, he barely escaped death by gastric fever. He went to school mainly from 1858 to 1867. His ill health prevented very steady application. His mother once said that "his teachers liked talking to him much better than teaching him." He often went on trips with his father, who was an engineer. It appears to have been the desire of the family that Robert Louis, too, should be an engineer, but fate seemed to have decreed otherwise, for at the age of six this boy showed a disposition to write. He did enjoy the outdoor business of the engineer's life but the strain on his physical endurance was altogether too much, so that in 1871 he reluctantly changed to law. He was called to the bar in 1875. Two years earlier he first met Mr. Sidney Colvin who proved to be a close friend throughout his life. He traveled in ~ Europe and then went back to Scotland where he was doing a good deal of writing in the year 1881. Among the books of this period was Treasure Island which Mr. Untermeyer has called ''that eternal classic of youth. In 1882 appeared Familiar Studies of Men and Books, and New Arabian Knights. In January, 1884, his ambitious plans for intense and continuous writing were interfered with by the most serious illness from which he had yet suffered. Again he neared death. As a result the attack was followed "by long prostration and incapacity for work and by continued relapses." In August, 1887, his home was at Bournemouth. In 1885 he published, after long indecision, The Body Snatchers and the romance, Prince Otto, and A Child's Garden of Verses. Early in 1886 he presented the English public with the somewhat freakish story of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. This novel, in connection with Treasure Island, proved exceedingly popular. The same year he wrote Kidnapped, at Bournemouth, an English watering place. His poor health continued. The last four years of his life were spent at Samoa. He made his abode at Vailinia "where he. Took a small barrack of a wooden box 500 feet above the sea and began to build himself a large house close by. The natives gave him the name of Tusitala. His character developed unanticipated strength on the practical side. He became a vigorous employer of labor, an active planter, above all a powerful and benignant island chieftain. He gathered by degrees around him a kind of feudal clan of servants and retainers and he plunged with more generous ardor than coolness of judgment into the troubled politics of the country. "Through 1894, he was engaged in composing two romances, neither of which were finished at his death. He was dictating Weir Hermiston on the very day that he died, which was the 3rd of December, 1894. He was talking in a cheerful manner on the veranda of his house at Vailinia when he had a stroke of apoplexy from which he never recovered, death occurring that evening. Next day sixty Samoans of athletic build, who acknowledged Stevenson as their chief, carried him to the peak Vaea, where he had wished to be buried and where they consigned him to rest in hearing of the roar of the great Pacific Ocean." Many people in this country have listened to David Starr Jordan tell of the days when he knew Stevenson on the Samoan Islands. His report is the usual one that Stevenson was a mar of very exceptional charm. "That he was the most attractive figure of the men of letters of his generation is admitted, and the acknowledged fascination of his character was deepened and was extended over an extremely wide circle of readers by the publication, in 1899, of His Letters which has subdued even those who were rebellious of the entertainment of his books. It is, therefore, from the point of view of his 'charm' that the genius of Stevenson must be approached. In this respect there was between himself and his books, his manner and his style, his practice and his theory a very unusual harmony. Very few authors of so high a class have 
 been so sustained, or have made their conduct so close a reflection of their philosophy. This unity of the man and his work makes it difficult, for one who knew him, to be sure that one greatly gauges the purely literary significance of the latter. There are some living who still hear in every page of Stevenson's the voice of the man himself, and see in every turn of his language his flashing smile." We are interested particularly in this lesson in A Child's Garden of Verse. It is, says Louis Untermeyer, "Second only to Mother Goose's own collection in its lyrical simplicity and universal appeal." The poem "My Shadow" is characteristic. One can see how completely Stevenson has entered into the child-life thinking of things about him as a child might, and betraying that sympathy with all natural objects that the child often portrays: MY SHADOW I have a little shadow that goes in and out with me, And what can be the use of him is more than I can see. He is very, very like me from the heels up to the head; And I see him jump before me, when I jump into my bed. The funniest thing about him is the way he likes to grow? Not at all like proper children, which is always very slow; For he sometimes shoots up taller, like an India-rubber ball, And he sometimes gets so little that there's none of him at all. He hasn't got a notion of how children ought to play, And can only make a fool of me in every sort of way. He stands so close beside me, he's a coward you can see; I'd think shame to stick to nursie as that shadow sticks to me. One morning, very early, before the sun was up, I rose and found the shining dew on every buttercup; But my lazy little shadow, like an arrant sleepy-head, Had stayed at home behind me and was fast asleep in bed. Everybody knows that children love animals. As an example of Robert Louis Stevenson's recognition of this fact we include "The Cow": THE COW The friendly cow, all red and white, I love with all my heart: She gives me cream with all her might, To eat with apple-tart. She wanders lowing here and there, And yet she cannot stray, All in the pleasant open air, The pleasant light of day. And blown by all the winds that pass, And wet with all the showers, She walks among the meadow grass And eats the meadow flowers. "Good and Bad Children," has both the modern and the ancient ring. It is modern in that it touches good health habits and has something to say about diet. It is of the past because it emphasizes particularly the value of good morals and the sorrow that comes to those whose morals are bad: GOOD AND BAD CHILDREN Children, you are very little, And your bones are very brittle; If you would grow great and stately, You must try to walk sedately. You must still be bright and quiet, And content with simple diet; And remain, through all bewildering, Innocent and honest children. Happy hearts and happy faces, Happy play in grassy places? That was how, in ancient ages, Children grew to kings and sages. But the unkind and the unruly, And the sort who eat unduly, They must never hope for glory? Theirs is quite a different story. Cruel children, crying babies, All grow up as geese and gabies, Hated, as their age increases, By their nephews and their nieces. The poem called "Foreign Children" has a point of view that has been nursed very carefully by European and American children for many ages. It will be interesting, as time goes on, to find a poem that is a little broader and little more sympathetic in its outlook. However, this has an interesting point of view: 
 FOREIGN CHILDREN Little Indian, Sioux or Crow, Little frosty Eskimo, Little Turk or Japanese, O! Don't you wish that you were me! You have seen the scarlet trees And the lions over seas; You have eaten ostrich eggs, And turned the turtles off their legs. Such a life is very fine, But it's not so nice as mine: You must often, as you trod, Have wearied not to be abroad. You have curious things to eat, I am fed on proper meat; You must dwell beyond the foam, But I am safe and live at home. Little Indian, Sioux or Crow, Little frosty Eskimo, Little Turk or Japanese, O! Don't you wish that you were me? The little couplet called "Happy Thought" is worth including at this point: HAPPY THOUGHT The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings. We are including as the last poem of Robert Louis Stevenson the noted Requiem that is found on his headstone. REQUIEM Under the wide and starry sky, Dig the grave and let me lie. Glad did I live and gladly die, And I laid me down with a will. This be the verse you grave for me: Here he lies where he longed to be; Home is the sailor, home from the sea, And the hunter home from the hill. Questions and Problems 1. Do you know of children who have been particularly interested in their shadows? Try to call to mind some things they have said about them. 2. What good health rules do you discover in "Good and Bad Children?" 3. Name some of the things that should make children happy as kings. 4. This is a time when personality is very generally discussed. What are your conclusions in relation to the personality of Robert Louis Stevenson. 5. How many members of the class have read Treasure Island? What is there about it that makes it so fascinating to your readers? 6. Name as many outstanding Scotch writers as you can call to mind. 7. Do you agree with Louis Untermeyer that Stevenson makes an approach to "Mother Goose," in his children's verses? 8. Call to mind other writers whose contribution is intended primarily for children.