FAMILY TIES Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary I had decided to discuss this subject, "Family Ties" under three headings: family solidarity, parental responsibility, and mutual responsibility. "A house divided against itself cannot stand." A family divided against itself cannot stand. In order to be efficient and effective and helpful in family work, social workers should do everything possible to build up families, to make them solid and united, and develop strong family ties. A family divided against itself sooner or later goes to pieces. There are a great many factors that cause family disasters and cause families to be broken up. A few of the danger signals are selfishness, quarreling, nagging, carping criticism, and failure to adjust. A great many people never learn to adjust, to subject their wishes and to modify their habits in order to make family life harmonious, When people work or live together they must learn to adjust. When a man marries, he must make adjustments; when one child comes, he must adjust to this change in his life and habits, and when more children come, he must again make modifications and changes in his plans and conduct. A great deal of family trouble is due to the fact that people do not learn to adjust. Another cause of family instability is lack of loyalty, and lack of family standards. It is very demoralizing to families to have no regularity and no standards of conduct. There are families who do not care when the children get up, when they go to bed, when they eat, and they have no rules nor regulations nor mutual respect in their homes. Families should have health standards. Religious standards, moral standards, that are honored by all the members. Blessed is the family which sets high family standards and succeeds in having these standards respected by the entire group. Let us look into our own homes and see what our standards are, see if we have wholesome habits of regularity. Neglect of the home by either the father or the mother is disastrous to family development and growth. Another cause of family disintegration may be a display of favoritism. Parents sometimes have one child whom they consider brighter than the rest, and the other children are sacrificed for the benefit of this child RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 307 to the extent that the others become discouraged and bitter towards one another. Many families are broken up, although they still live under the same roof, because of partiality on the part of the parents to some of the children. We should not ignore personalities in families. Sometimes a woman thinks the man she has married is a plodder, but he is the kind of man one would like to have around if shipwrecked, because he is capable and can build anything with his hands, but his wife wants him to be an after-dinner speaker. She nags at him and tries to make him something that he is not, instead of appreciating him for what he is. Personality should be respected in families. Of course, divorce, desertion and 'neglect break up homes. Disagreements over money is sometimes an element that breaks up families. I know a woman who died and left more to one daughter than to the other children, and the others have not spoken to the girl since, although the mother has been dead twelve years. The family does not have any reunions or any more pleasure together, because of so much quarreling over the money. Sickness and accident and death also cause trouble. A great deal of melancholy and depression in homes is due to ill health. People must learn to adjust to sickness and to deaths, and it is always a difficult thing to do. When a disaster comes into a family, such as death or financial reverses, the family should be united and share one another's burdens. This help should be extended not only while the family lives under the same roof, but after the members are separated. If brothers and sisters, after they are married, stand together and assist the one in difficulty, it denotes that the family ties are strong and unbroken. There are some factors that are conducive to successful family life; and, of course, the first one is suitable mating. It is wise for people to marry some one of their own type, some one who has had about the same kind of background. People get along better under these circumstances. It is also very important for people to marry in their own religion; particularly is this true of people who are highly socialized, like the Jews, the "Mormons," and the Catholics. All of us when we are young and little are dependent upon others for actual physical care. Most of us must again become somewhat dependent in old age. Very few people can care for themselves through their entire lives. People feel more responsible toward helpless children than towards the infirm, aged members of society. We all realize that the children are more importand in a way, economically, and so, much attention is paid to children and their welfare. Children are interesting, are attractive to take care of, and we see the possibilities of child development. Older people are less attractive, are less docile, and are more  
 difficult to care for than children. We therefore neglect old people a great deal more than we neglect children. A mother can take care of five, six or even eight children, but sometimes it is hard for five children to take care of mother when she gets old. As Latter-day Saint people, I believe we are a little bit negligent in this respect. We think somebody else ought to do it, and that the Church and the county ought to help, instead of taking care of our own old people. Old people want their own way; they have been the center of attraction in their own homes, and it is hard for them to depend on their children for advice and care. They have all spent many years struggling and sacrificing themselves for the good of their children, and now, in their old. Age, they do not wish to trouble or burden their children. It is time, however, for the grown children to repay the debt of love and care and attention, and they should willingly undertake the responsibility for the care of their parents. Elderly people dislike giving up their homes, leaving the familiar rooms and surroundings in which they reared their family. It perhaps is best for their happiness to permit them to continue to live in their home, or have their own homes as long as they are able to care for themselves. If, however, elderly people are not comfortable or properly cared for alone, they should be persuaded to make their homes with their children. Institutions and homes for the aged should be used only when other cares cannot be provided. If family work is properly organized, it is astonishing what co-operation can be secured in caring for the aged. We had an elderly couple brought to our attention, the man was 88 and the woman 71. The ward in which they lived had been caring for them. A few years ago, the bishop felt that the ward was perhaps not giving these people sufficient care and relief, and as he had a great deal of work to do, he asked our office to help. We talked to these old people and found that they had five children but they all were married and moved around and they had lost connection with them. We located the children and learned that the oldest child, a daughter, had seven children of her own and could do nothing for her parents. The second and third daughters were willing to help. A son, who was very shiftless, was unwilling to do anything, but his wife was a very responsible woman and was willing to help. The old couple had a grandson, whom they had reared from infancy, and when these people were all talked to and written to, it was astonishing what a good plan we could make. It was decided that it would be best to — the money all come to our office, as the mother was old and when she was given money she often spent it for things which she did not need, and even gave it away, and so the children felt it was better to RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 309 have the money handled by an agency. We planned a budget for these old people, which was as follows: rent, $5; food, $20; light, $1; coal. $9; clothes, $5; making a budget of $40. This is what the family did to take care of their old father and mother: the first daughter was not able to give anything; the second daughter was able to give $7; the third daughter, $3; the daughterin-law, $5; another daughter, $5; the grandson was pleased to give $5, which made $25 a month which the family itself was willing to give. The county gave $5, the bishop, $5, and the Relief Society helped with the clothing, and with the cleaning-up of the house for the old people. PLAY "OUT OF WORK" PRESENTED A special number of the afternoon session was a two-act play entitled "Out of Work." The play is a very touching story of a young man who is out of work and who finally reaches the end of his resources and the end of his courage. His wife, too, loses hope when her little girl becomes ill, when the grocer refuses further credit, and when the landlord asks them to move. In desperation the wife calls the Relief Society for help, and through the help and service rendered by the Relief Society the family secures an opportunity to make a new start. The role of the discouraged man and his wife were most effectively presented by R. Kendall Thomas and Mrs. Vida Fox Clawson. There was scarcely a dry eye in the audience during the scene which portrayed the series of misfortunes that overtakes the family. The part of the Relief Society visitor was most skilfully handled by LaRue Peterson Romney. Little JRuth Halliday played the part of the child in a very pleasing manner. The arrangements for the presentation of the play were made by Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine of the Relief Society General Board. SUMMER VACATIONS FOR CHILDREN President. Williams announced that a plan to arrange for summer vacations for children has received the approval of the General Board. President Williams asked for the support of the various ward presidents and stake officers in this new movement. Miss Lydia Alder, of the Relief Society welfare department, was asked by President Williams to give an explanation of the plan. Miss Alder stated: "I think we are all interested in children, especially those who do not have many opportunities. The summer months are very trying for children in the city, especially the ones who are malnourished. When we think of these children and-the great open spaces out in the country, we wonder if there is not some way of getting the friendless city child into a friendly country 
 home for a visit. Last year we sent quite a number of children on vacations, and the experiment was so successful that we would like to send more this year. I have in mind two children we sent who were malnourished. They went to a home in the country where they had plenty of milk and vegetables. They returned | looking very much improved and they had both gained in weight. We feel sure there are many people who would be delighted to take some boy or girl for a vacation for a week or two. We would like to have you take this word home with you and if you know of families who would be interested in making some child happy this summer, have them communicate with Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah." General Meeting—Morning Session President Clarissa S. Williams I am very happy to have the opportunity of greeting you again after an interval of six months. Sometimes I wish minutes were hours and hours were days, in order to be able to do some of the things I want to do, but our heavenly Father has ordered things as he thought best, and I believe he has given us the wisdom to temper our lives so that we might be able, with proper activity to do a few of the many things which we find about us to be done. I want to say to you how happy the General Board and officers are that there is so much activity among the organizations in the Church. We are delighted with the progress which has been made in the stakes and missions. It is almost unbelievable the work which is being done—the interest which is being taken. The young-women are becoming interested in the Relief Society, and are assisting us, who are older, to carry on the work satisfactorily. During the year there have been a number of changes. We wish to report that we have added to the General Board two new members, Mrs. Nettie Davis Bradford and Mrs. Elise Benson Alder. These women have been presidents of stakes and have been active and forward-looking in their work, and we feel that their help and counsel in the General Board will be of very great benefit and assistance to us, and we bespeak for them your love and your sympathy and your faith and prayers, that you may uplift and sustain them in their work as you have helped us. Throughout the Church there have been many reorganizations of stakes, and new stakes have been organized. There have been many wards reorganized and organized, and the work is progressing very rapidly. Following is a list of the stake changes: Nebo stake, divided November 23, 1924, into Nebo and Palmyra stakes, Mrs. Hepsy Sperry Lewis retained as president of Nebo stake, Mrs. Delila Hughes appointed president of Palmyra stake; RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 311 Utah stake, divided November 23, 1924, into Utah and Kolob stakes, Mrs. Electa S. Dixon retained as president of Utah stake, Mrs. Hannah A. Mendenhall appointed president of Kolob stake; North Weber stake, reorganized November 9, 1924, Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott released, Mrs. Julia E. Parry appointed president; Eastern states mission, Miss Marie Danielsen released August, 1924, Miss Pearl Snow appointed president November 28, 1924; Salt Lake stake, reorganized March 15, 1925, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford released, Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion appointed president; European mission, reorganized December, 1924, Mrs. Emma Ray McKay released, Mrs. May Booth Talmage appointed president; Malad stake, reorganized March 28, 1925, Mrs. Eliza A. Hall released, Mrs. Ella Jeremy Richards appointed president; Yellowstone stake, reorganized January 13, 1925, Mrs. Julia E. Miller released, Mrs. Annie S. Kerr appointed president. We feel that great honor is due to the women who have given up active service, many of whom have worked long and faithfully in the upbuilding of the stakes in which they reside. We bespeak for the new presidents of these stakes the faith and prayers and support of the communities. We are very much pleased with the work which is being done in the Relief Sosiety organizations throughout the Church in the interest of maternity and child welfare. Since the passage of the Sheppard-Towner act and the action of the state legislatures in meeting the funds of that act, great forward strides have been made in all communities where the women: of the community have co-operated with the state health departments in the interest of maternity welfare work. In our officers' meeting we heard reports from nearly twenty stakes relative to the work which is being done in the interest of maternity and child welfare. It warmed our hearts to learn of the work that is being done throughout the Church in this movement. Clinics are being held and hospital beds are being provided. We were particularly pleased with the report from the Cottonwood stake of a ten-bed hospital which, through the assistance of the authorities of the Church, they have been able to establish, where they receive only maternity cases. Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley, president of Cottonwood stake, reported that there had been as many as seven cases there at one time and they were very much encouraged. They have the co-operation of the physicians of the county and feel that they are going to make a success of the work. In some of the stakes there are two and three bed hospitals or cottages where women may be taken for their confinement under the direction of the Relief Society. In some of the Idaho stakes wonderful progress has been made. The co-operation with the hospital at Idaho Falls and the co-operation with the physicians of the county in which this stake is located is very pleasing. In some stakes the Relief Society workers have one RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE visited the physicians and have come to an agreement with them that cases that are recommended by the Relief Society shall be treated at a reduced price by the regular physicians. We feel that in every stake of the Church there is a wide field for the opening up of just such work as this, if our stake and ward presidents have their eyes open and are alert to the needs of the community. We ask you women who are not officers to lend your help and assistance to the officers who are working over you to establish the things which shall be of benefit to the women of the Church. The death rate among infants under one year has decreased very materially. Some statistics from the Presiding Bishop's Office show that during the year 1920 thee were 776 deaths among children under one year, or 49 per 1000, based on the birth rate; in 1921, there were 902 deaths, or 53 per 1000; in 1923 the death rate decreased to 619, or 39 per 1000. We feel that some of the credit for the decrease in infant mortality is due to the efforts of the Relief Society women. We want to say to you, go on assisting in work which will further decrease the death rate of children. Let us work for the mothers in order that the mothers may be healthy, in order that they may bear healthy offspring. A general survey was made recently by the General Board with a view of ascertaining what the Relief Society has been doing in the interest of maternity welfare work, both in connection with state boards of health and independently. Some general headings were arranged and the stakes were asked to report their work as best they could under these headings. In addition to this general report, many very interesting things were recorded in connection with the maternity and child welfare work. The compiled report is as follows: Number of health centers established...................005 13 Number of maternity hospitals established.................Number of districts or stakes in which clinics have been held in which Relief Society (as stake unit) has co-operated.. 40 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having maternity chests. 13 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having maternity bundles........ 20 Number of stakes, operating as stake units, having layettes... 24 Number of local branches or wards in which clinics have been held in which Relief Society (as ward units) has cooperated.210 Number of wards which have maternity chests.............132 Number of wards which have maternity bundles............306 Number of wards which have layettes..................4.236 Number of wards which have some provisions for health and maternity welfare work, either in the way of clinics, chests, bundles, or layettes.......599 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 313 Number of stakes which assisted in paying county or school  In addition to the above report, stakes and wards have assisted in arranging for operations and paying for hospital care, have provided household and nursing care during sickness, have conducted weekly classes in health lessons, and arranged for health lectures, and have assisted in providing clothing and equipment for children's hospitals, etc., etc. In addition to the special work done by Relief Society women in the interest of personal health, we would like to recommend that all Relief Society women interest themselves in public health generally, and in sanitation. We recommend that they band themselves together in the interest of clean-up campaigns, that the communities in which they live may be made more beautiful and more healthful, generally. Not only should the community and the streets be given attention, but all private yards and homes should be cleaned and beautified. Relief Society women should insist also on the cleaning up of corrals and other breeding places for flies. Flies could be absolutely eliminated if all members of every community would unite in their destruction. I think a future development of a community health program is to provide visiting nurses. I suggest that you encourage some one in your communities to study for this profession. Some of the stakes are co-operating with their schools in assisting in paying for a public health nurse. We hope in the future to have the community health actively advance. [Note: The addresses of other speakers at the morning session will appear in the July issue of The Magazinc.] General Meeting—Afternoon Session The General Authorities of the Church as sustained at the last conference, and the officers and the General Board of the Relief Society were presented by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and were sustained, unanimously, by the large assembly.: Items from the annual report of the Relief Society, which is a report of the finances and activities in the wards and brafiches where the funds are held and administered, were read by the General Secretary. The report indicated growth and development in every phase of the work. Among the interesting items mentioned were the following: nearly one and one-half million dollars was handled during the year by the women of the organization; the amount paid for charitable purposes during the year was $100,453.51, which is an increase of $43,486 over the amount paid in 1915 for the same purpose. The net assets of the Society were given as $897,575.56, an increase of $363,534 in ten years, or since 
 1915. The present membership of the Relief Society was given as 59,272, which shows an increase of 17,989 members in ten years, or since 1915. (The complete report appears in this issue of the Magazine.) COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON It is a very great pleasure to meet you at this conference and to renew acquaintance with you. I am sure we have all been greatly interested in the report read by Sister Lyman of the splendid work and activities of the Relief Society. I have been thinking of the family budget that we heard about this morning, the system of budgeting our incomes. We have learned during this conference that it is imperative that we set aside certain proportions or percentages of our income for definite purposes, for food and clothing and shelter and education and pleasure, amd that if we spend too much money on food or on clothes, that we will deprive ourselves possibly of education, and that if we go to the extreme in education, that we deprive ourselves of some of the other necessities, so it is important that we seriously consider what to do with our incomes. However, if we do not take care of our lives there is no agency which can extend us a loan of life. I read an article recently by Bruce Barton entitled "Budgeting Your Life," with this sub-heading: "You can have almost anything you want, money, position, fame, but there is a price tag attached to each one. Look at the price tag—the price may be too high." I wonder if we are budgeting our lives with as much concern and as carefully as we do our income, or if we are living each day the best we can without any plan for reaching our ideals. Is our barque of life evenly balanced so that when we reach the storm and troubled waters of life that our craft may sail with safety? We have in our Church a beautiful motto: "The glory of God is intelligence." This applies to us as parents as well as to our children, and if we neglect ourselves in order that our children may have every opportunity we have acquired the gift of self-sacrifice, but what of our intelligence? If we are such excellent housekeepers that we cannot spend one moment in_ spiritual development, and what is the price we are paying? Isn't it too high a price for excellent housekeeping? There are a few of us who may neglect our homes and children for public work. This is too high a price. We should look facts in the face and determine what we are getting out of life. What is there that would be worthwhile that I would be willing to trade my years to gain? Consider the life of Benjamin Franklin and what he accomplished by systematic endeavor at improvement. Other men had wealth and position. Franklin had neither, but we all know RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 315 what he accomplished. His idea was that he should aim systematically to develop morally as well as mentally. He knew what was right and what was wrong, and he did not see why he could not always do one and avoid the other, and so with systematic work he prepared a little book, ruling the spaces down for the days of the week, and the spaces across for the virtues he wished to acquire. Franklin said, "I was astonished to see that I was so much fuller of faults than I had imagined, but I had the satisfaction of seeing them diminish." Each night Franklin would go over the book and in the spaces opposite the virtue in which he wished to improve he would check himself up by making dots for mistakes and leaving clear spaces when he felt he had not made mistakes. In budgeting life we must remember that there are three big fundamentals, the physical, the mental and the spiritual. I am sure that all of the sisters who heard the wonderful talks this morning on the development along physical lines will know that that is the big important thing, because without health we cannot accomplish either of the others. But it is necessary for us to take inventory and see if we are paying too much for any of these fundamentals, to check up and see how much time we give to the development of each of these three fundamentals. In budgeting incomes we find there is quite a variation in amounts, because some of us have an income of $50 a month while others may have $500, but in budgeting our lives we each have twenty-four hours. If we take the eight hours out for sleep, we still have sixteen hours to budget, or 112 hours a week. The physical, of course, comes first, and should receive serious attention. Authorities tell us that if we would spend one hour a day upon the study of any given subject that at the end of one year, we would be an authority on that subject. If an hour a day is too much to spend on mental development, we might divide that and spend a half hour a day or 3½ hours per week. This amount of time spent would not be very much compared with the 112 hours a week which we have at our disposal. So many of us say we have too many meetings. Let us write down honestly and faithfully the time we spend in meetings where we go for spiritual improvement, where we partake of the Spirit of the Lord. Let us write down also the hours spent in spiritual study or study for spiritual development, and the time we spent in prayer. I think we would all be surprised. The aim of spiritual development is life eternal; we as Latter-day Saints believe in life eternal, and that "this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." If this is the aim, what can we afford to pay for it? This does not mean that we merely have to believe that there is a God, but we must know. We all feel that we have the stars and the planets above us, but until we make a real study of


them we do not know them nor their functions, nor do we do anything in life without effort. If we will have this for our motto and we believe that we are here on this earth to prepare ourselves for a future life, then if we can give part of our years, part of our hours each week to the development of the spiritual part, that we will know at the end of time that we have given our hours or traded our time for that priceless knowledge, "that we may know thee, the true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." I pray that we will have vision to see, that we will realize that this time that our Father in heaven gives us is the most precious income that we can have, and that we will live so that at the end of the time spent we will not look back with regrets, and think we have paid too high a price for the things we have done with our time.
COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT
Having prayed to my heavenly Father for his inspiration to help me this afternoon, I now turn to you for your sympathy and faith that I may remember only that which would be profitable to express. I appreciate the privilege of working with you in the Relief Society. I congratulate you on your successes and desire that my remarks may encourage all to press on in our work and admonish all to grasp every opportunity that will give us a more intelligent understanding of how to uphold the ideals and standards of our Church. There is a proverb which says: "As a man thinketh in his heart so is he." If we reflect upon the deepest meaning of this proverb, I believe we will recognize that we are moulders of our own characters, the makers of our destiny. It will enable us to appreciate more fully the value of the gospel of Jesus Christ as a potent factor in our lives. Our hearts will swell with gratitude to our parents for teaching us the gospel and directing our minds in channels that lead to happiness, pointing out for us a purpose in life toward which all our thoughts and energies should be directed. We will gratefully acknowledge the wisdom and vision of our leaders in establishing the auxiliary organizations through which many of our best thoughts have borne fruits in deeds of loving kindness. The women assembled here today represent a group who do more than their share of the world's work and do it faithfully and silently. They have that rare accomplishment, acquired only by great minds, of being able to see
something divine and wonderful in things which to many minds seem only commonplace. Through our training we have come to recognize the value of the statement accredited Carlyle when he said: "It is not what I
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 317
have but what I do that is my kingdom;" and as what we do is a product of what we think, how necessary it is for us to entertain only those thoughts which will result in noble deeds. The mind is so organized that it will bring forth either good or evil. Life is so short and there is so much to do, that we cannot permit thoughts of pride and prejudice, envy, jealousy, falsehood, dishonesty, disloyalty, intolerance, or selfishness, to find lodgment in our minds, for they will bring forth the briers and thorns to vex us. They will rob us of success and happiness, and thwart us in our purposes. They will wound those we love and for whom we labor. If we harbor these, our lives will end in disappointment. If, however, in our minds, there is a hunger and thirst after righteousness, they shall be filled with thoughts of humility, generosity, forgiveness, tolerance, patience, sympathy, love, and charity. If, as we face the problems of each new day, our minds are fertile with such thoughts as these, they will bring forth good fruits and when the book of life is closed, upon its pages will be recorded only deeds of righteousness. This great victory can be gained only by self-mastery which means constant labor. Many thoughts will creep in unbidden as did the serpents on the shield where Hercules was put to play. You know the story; he was placed on his father's shield to play. Two serpents crept into it, and it is said that the child grasped them by the neck and choked them to death. These serpents, according to one writer, typify doubt and fear. Have they ever crept stealthily into our minds when we have been struggling to fulfil some duty? Such thoughts must be crushed; they are the enemies of education and progress. We must put in their place, thoughts of faith and courage and we can do if we follow the admonition of our prophet which says, "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning by study and also by faith." This year, as in the past, we have in our course of study many splendid outlines. Should some of the problems called to our attention require a little extra mind energy, are we going to cast them aside and say they are too hard? It is so easy to cog Let us resolve to be rowers, not drifters. The Psalmist also points a way to fruitful thoughts, saying, "Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his law doth he meditate day and night." If, in the hours of time allotted to us, we will cause our minds to dwell upon that which is pure and unselfish, as surely as the sunbeam is reflected from the pinnacle of yonder temple, just so sure will good thoughts be reflected in our countenances and we will become women of influence and blessedness, in our homes,


as wives and mothers; in our Church, as members; and in our nation, as citizens. May the Lord help us to realize the full significance of the proverb, "As he thinketh in his heart so is he," and order our lives in keeping with his will.
MRS. EMMA RAY McKAY Former President European Mission Relief Societies
To say that I enjoyed my missionary work in Europe is expressing it mildly. I love the British country, even with all of its rain, and I love the British people, their genuineness, their honesty, and their quiet refinement. I was surprised at the richness of Germany and at the quality of her people. To see young girls there two hundred fifty of them in a Bible class with their Bibles all marked with red and blue ink, as the missionaries' Bibles are, and to hear them answer every question, was a delight. The scenery of Switzerland and Norway was a delight, even as our own mountain scenery is, and every country was so full of interest that my sojourn was a continuous joy. Nearly all the time we were associated with Latter-day Saints, so we felt right at home in whatever country we were visiting. We arrived in Europe at an opportune time when the conferences were on, and by the reports of the presidents I was able to learn early of the excellent work being done, notwithstanding the many difficulties they have to face continually. One of these difficulties is the time of meeting. Since the war the women have really had better opportunity to get work than the men, and so women are working in mills, factories and shops, and do not have time to go to meeting except at night when the meetings are held. We were told this morning that when we rest, we should do nothing, but when those women rest, they are doing Relief Society work. Another difficulty is the place of meeting. Where we have our own meetinghouses there is no difficulty about a room for meeting, but in cities where we rent halls, sometimes they can be obtained for only one day, and all meetings must be held on that day. Where the Relief Society women meet with the Mutuals, the plan is not satisfactory to either organization. Sometimes the Relief Society women meet in the homes of the people, but the homes are often small and women must stand for the evening after working all day long. The item of car fare must also be considered where people go to four or five meetings a week. It has been reported that the families spent from three to ten shillings every week for car fare, and many women have told me that they could not possibly afford to go to a picture show or other form of entertainment because they must use the money for car fare. Another difficulty is the small amount of funds in the Relief
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 319
Societies. At one of our meetings one of the presidents said, "We have a small society, but we have many old people around us to whom we should like to give milk and eggs, but we have only three shillings in our treasury; but if there are any presidents here who need some of that more than we do, we should be glad to divide it with them." This shows the spirit of these women. Relief Society women in Europe cannot go around from block to block collecting money for Relief Society funds. Their money must be raised by making clothing and selling it, and in other such ways. It was the desire of the president of the mission that the auxiliary organizations be up to the standard of the auxiliaries here, so we went into the details of Relief Society work. We instructed the officers regarding their duties and the division of responsibility of their work. We advised regular audits of Relief Society books, and Relief Society reports at quarterly conferences. Prayer meetings before regular Relief Society meetings were established and this brought the officers to the meetings in better time and brought also a better spirit in the meetings. The main thing established was the study of the regular lessons in the Magazine. Before taking up the work, good features of the lessons and the development to be gained from them were pointed out. For the English speaking Saints, the lessons as printed in the Magazine were available, but for the other countries, translation was necessary. I feared the social service lessons were too difficult as given for some to handle, but I learned afterwards that the women were enjoying the lessons and that they could apply them as we are applying them here in the stakes of Zion. Some of the English women preferred to study the English rather than American poets and this is being done wherever desired. The lessons were received with great delight in Germany. Sister Tadje reported that the Relief Society in Basel grew in a very short time from 12 to 40 members, and the societies in Berlin grew from 20 or 30 to 60 and 80. The Relief Societies in Norway have enjoyed the lessons just as much. In Sweden they were just beginning to use them. In Denmark, when I visited the Relief Society, the room was full of men. They enjoyed the lessons so much that they asked if they might go and partake of them. In Holland they were just getting started, and also in Belgium. So the Relief Society Magazine and the lesson work have done much to improve conditions in the societies in Europe. Another factor for development was the desire of the president of the mission that every Church member should be a missionary, and also that every auxiliary organization should be a missionary factor. In trying to work out that idea we saw great improvements in all our organizations.


The poet says so long as we love we serve, and so long as we serve others, we are indispensable. Relief Society women in Europe love to serve, and are indispensable in the highest sense of the word. Heaven blesses them for working as they do, notwithstanding the many difficulties they have to put up with. May we emulate their example.
MRS. JEANNETTE A. HYDE Member of General Board
(President Williams explained that Mrs. Hyde, who has been business manager of the Relief Society Magazine from the beginning of its publication, has been appointed by President Coolidge as collector of customs for the Port of Hawaii, and that she would soon leave for the Hawaiian Islands. Mrs. Hyde will be given a leave of absence from the General Board during her term of office there, but has resigned her position as business manager of the Magazine.)
The choicest blessings of our heavenly Father have been with us during this conference and if we will retain the things which we have learned we shall be better presidents, better board members, and better officers in the Relief Society. I am glad that I have the opportunity of speaking immediately following Sister McKay, because I have long wanted to tell her of the splendid work which she has done in Europe for the Magazine. Naturally the thing that we think the most about, the thing that we work most earnestly for, is the thing in which we are most vitally interested. Therefore, with all the work of the Relief Society, I believe that the Magazine has stood out to me the most vividly, and I have loved it the most of all, because I have given the great portion of my time to it. When Sister McKay went to England, I think we had some 25 or 30 subscribers to the Magazine from that mission. I think when she left we had 125. Every mail from there seemed to bring orders and letters of congratulations from happy subscribers, telling what the Magazine has done for them. Surely Sister McKay has done a splendid work in putting before the people of the European mission the benefits to be derived from the reading of the Magazine. I am glad also of the opportunity to tell you what you have done for the Magazine. When we started it we had no funds; we had to borrow. It may be quite a surprise to some of you to know that the Relief Society was ever so poor. We started just at the time when the war commenced and before we were well established the United States entered the conflict. Naturally, prices soared. The material that entered into the making of the Magazine went up in some instances 150%. We still kept the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 321
price at $1 a year. We had you in mind, and your exertion in the interest of the Magazine showed us that you had us in mind. It was a hard thing to launch our periodical. It started in 1914, and came to you as a bulletin the first year, free. But we had back of us that stalwart and beloved man, President Joseph F. Smith. He commissioned us to publish the Magazine, and thus to put a medium of exchange between the General Board and the Relief Society women of the Church that you might know of the things that we desire to have you take up in the local organizations, and that we might all work in greater unison and harmony. You have helped us to establish the Magazine, which is now eleven years old and has a circulation of 25,000. All during the years of its existence you have been true and faithful and loyal. I am both pleased and proud to tell you today that we appreciate more than you can know what you have done. When I think of the Magazine, I think of the names that have come in regularly as subscribers and of the faithful agents who have helped us out year in and year out. The Magazine radiates the spirit of Relief Society work; it radiates the spirit of the gospel, and through the Magazine, Relief Society workers everywhere will be able to get a detailed report of this conference, which is next to attending the conference itself. I rejoice to be with you today. I am happy that I have had the opportunity to work in the Relief Society. Whatever I have done, whatever I am, I owe to this great organization, for it has given me opportunity for development. I hope and pray that I shall always have your love and confidence.
(President Williams asked the audience to rise and give a standing vote of thanks to Mrs. Hyde for the excellent work she has done in behalf of the Relief Society Magazine.)
MRS. NETTIE D. BRADFORD Member of General Board
I cannot tell you how I feel on this occasion. I could not express my feelings even though I tried, but I do feel to thank my heavenly Father for the privilege of working in the Relief Society. I, like Sister Hyde, feel that if I have amounted to anything, if I have done some little good in the world, that I owe it to the training I have received in the Relief Society. When I was just a young married woman, our president, Sister Williams, was president in the stake in which I resided, and she suggested that I be called into the Relief Society to do a special piece of work. I responded and thus began my service in this cause. Now that President Williams has called me to the General Board, I again feel very weak and humble. I think I have never felt so weak as at


the present time, and yet at the same time I feel that the Lord will be with me if I will put my trust in him. I know through past experience that no matter what we are called upon to do by those in authority over us, if we will put forth every effort, if we will bow ourselves before our heavenly Father in humility and prayer, that he will come to our assistance, that he will make us equal to our tasks. Just before being released from being president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, I asked my father, who is a patriarch, if he would give me a blessing. I wanted a blessing from him, although I had had two patriarchal blessings when I was young. And he blessed me and told me that the Lord was pleased with the work I had done but that he still had a great work for me yet to do. Just at that time I was called to this position. I pray that the Lord will help me to do the work which will be required of me and that I may have your love and your confidence and your faith and prayer to help me.
MRS. ELISE B. ALDER Member of General Board
ABOU BEN ADHEM
Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase), Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace; And saw, within the moonlight in his room, Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom, An angel writing in a book of gold: Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold; And to the presence in the room he said, "What writest thou?" The vision raised its head, And, with a look made all of sweet accord, Answered, "The names of those who love the Lord," "And is mine one?" said Abou. "Nay, not so," Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low, But cheerily still, and said, "I pray thee, then, Write me as one that loves his fellowmen." The angel vanished. The next night He came again, with a great awakening light, And showed the names whom love of God had blest, And, lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest. —Leigh Hunt.
It was not the intention of the author, my dear sisters, to infer that it is better to love our fellowmen than our God, but that if we love our fellowmen we show that we do love our God. This legacy of loving my fellowmen was left to me by my father and mother, and I can say to you now that this must be the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 323
reason I was chosen to this position. No one can tell you how I have suffered since last Wednesday, the 24th of March, when Sister Williams called me to the General Board. I could not see what I could do. The evil one seemed to say things to me that were not what they should be. I thought, "Why are they choosing me, perhaps because they feel sorry for me." I thought again the General Board is no dumping ground, why would they want me, if I could not do anything; I thought a good many things, my sisters, and I felt how small I was. I shall never forget the reception by President Williams which I received in her beautiful home when she called me there to inform me of her desire that I serve on the General Board. My mother's spirit seemed to be there, and I felt that it was a call. When President Williams put her arm around me and kissed me goodbye, I knew the Lord would bless me and I would be able to do some little good if the Relief Society women would support me with their faith and prayers. I am willing to do all I can but I must have your faith and prayers, because I am not just as strong as I look, and I am the baby on the General Board; but if the Lord will bless me, I feel that I may accomplish some of the things which will be expected of me.
PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS
I feel that the Spirit of the Lord has been with us, not only in this meeting this afternoon and in the meeting this morning, but in our officers' meetings yesterday, and that a great amount of work has been accomplished. I believe that much good will be derived by the people in the stakes and missions through your attendance at this conference. I believe that every stake except four, and five of the missions, have been represented at this, the official conference of the Relief Society. We consider that a very splendid showing. When we take into consideration the number of stakes (ninety-four), we feel that it is indeed a very splendid showing to have representatives here from ninety of them. We are always delighted to welcome the mission presidents. Their problems are a little different from ours. We feel that our contact with them is not only beneficial to them but helps us also. My mind has dwelt upon one or two special subjects that I feel would benefit you if they were mentioned. As I went out of the grounds today I walked behind a group of young women and they were talking of the morning meeting. They had been there and had been much interested, or so I judged from what they were saying. One girl whom I supposed was a Sunday School teacher delivered this criticism of us, the mothers: "The audience this morning should go to Sunday School and see the order that is maintained there by the children. No child is al-


lowed to get up and go out of Sunday School until it is dismissed, until the prayer and the singing are finished. I was jostled and shoved and I could scarcely hear the remarks of the last speaker, because there were women near me who were making such an effort to get out of the building." Sisters, I blushed at that criticism. I thought, Why is it that we, the mothers of Israel, do not set the example in every respect for our children? Isn't it possible for us to make arrangements to come to our meetings and remain until the meetings are closed? I wish you would regard this seriously. You may think it is a little thing, but I think it is very important. I want to say to you that I believe that we get as much inspiration from the singing and the prayer as we do from the remarks. Now, carry this little instruction into your homes, you stake presidents, you ward presidents, you members, and be determined that no young woman shall offer this criticism again. Let us set the example for our children. Let our children proudly say, "Father and mother do this. Father and mother know what is right. We will follow their example." There is no other teaching, no matter how great, that will equal the teaching by example. If you cannot stay until the meetings are finished, I would suggest that you do not attend. We must learn a little self-control. We must learn to respect the house in which we meet. We must learn to respect that spirit which our heavenly Father gives us in his house when we ask for his blessing. I want to ask you as mothers of boys and girls to give them in your homes the teachings that will make of them the men and women who will be able to carry on this great work of the latterdays. I wonder if you are as horrified as I am at the statistics which appear occasionally in the newspapers in regard to the divorce problem. These statistics show that divorce is on the increase in the United States. Even among people over sixty years of age divorce is not uncommon, although it diminishes as the age increases. Aren't you horrified when you read of a man and a woman being separated who have reared a large family? Some of the noted jurists of the day say that the fault lies frequently in the home, that we as fathers and mothers do not teach our sons and daughters the responsibilities which come with marriage, that we do not teach them that when two separate individuals, with different ideals, different training, different thoughts, are brought together, it takes a great deal of self-sacrifice in order for them to adjust themselves to each other. I beseech you as mothers to think of this subject. Endeavor in your teachings in your home, with your children, and in your home life, to demonstrate that there is no holier union than that of marriage, and that it takes the Spirit of the Lord and the spirit of self-sacrifice in