Ethel Reynolds Smith By Julia A, F. Lund T has been said that the aim of every woman should be to attain great, glorious, well rounded womanhood?then let come what may?sisterhood or motherhood. It is rare indeed that one attains to both with so great a degree of perfection as may be claimed for our beloved Ethel. She was one of the youngest of the group of women whom President Clarissa S. Williams called to her hoard, and the history of Relief Society for the last fifteen years tells how devoted she has been to the work. Ethel Reynolds was born October 23, 1889. Her mother was Amelia Schofield, and her father the scholar, writer and "defender of the faith,' George Reynolds. Her training was that of the average young Latter-day Saint girl in Salt Lake City; but more than most young women she drew her education from life experience as well as from formal institutions of learning. T-a very early period in her life she began her work in the Church, first in the Historian's Ofhee. It was while she was so engaged that she married Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, November 2, 1908. Though only nineteen years of age, she assumed the duties of wife to Brother Smith and mother to his two little daughters. These little ones, whose mother had died, were always objects of tender care and devotion to Ethel. She is the mother of nine children, two of whom were born after her call to the General Board of Relief Society. From the very beginning of her married life, Ethel kept her mind active through intellectual pursuits and association with her scholarly husband. She is a beautiful example of John Dewey's maxim, to "learn to do things by doing them." Perhaps the organization to which she gave most attention prior to her Relief Society work was that of the Genealogical Society. She was chosen by Brother Willard Young as his assistant in the Salt Lake Genealogical work. OON after she was called to be a member of the General Board of Relief Society, she remarked that some one had said to her she should not accept any public position as her home duties were sufficient to engross all her time and attention. Her answer was typical; she said, "You claim some periods for recreation, as it is the right of everyone to do. My Relief Society work will be my recreation. I shall take no more time for it than you do for your parties, theatres, etc., and I shall be a better wife and mother for this." Her willingness to serve in whatever form the call came, her quick intellect, her keen understanding of the principles of the Gospel, her love for the Church and people, made her a great power for good on the Board. She was a member of more committees than any other one member, and very few traveled as extensively in visiting the Stakes. Whether in consultation in lesson work, or in public address, she demonstrated the same thoroughness of preparation and clearness of vision. Her brilliant mind and sincere eloquence always made a great appeal. She was chosen  to speak upon the subject "Lucy Mack Smith, the Mother of the Prophet," at the Relief Society Conference, April, 1930. It was a masterly address, and through it could be read her own experience of a faithful wife and devoted mother. Measured in terms of service, Ethel has given a great portion of her life to Relief Society, and her place is secure in the hearts of her co-workers. Somewhat fragile in body, she has always had the tendency to over-tax her physical strength. Life holds so much for her, and she must have health and strength to meet these most precious years with her husband and children. In order to safeguard her health, she must relinquish some of her cherished duties, and among these, that of a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Ethel realizes that all study and all experience should help her to acquire living values, and with this knowledge, make adjustments that enable her to prepare to take part efficiently, intelligently and responsibly in the home circle, community life and the public affairs of the Church, where she fills so large a place with her lovely family and gifted husband. She will "ever hold the General Board and Relief Society in her heart, and they will always have a prayer for her.