2 EDITORIAL Abraham Lincoln OT only in the United States are thousands paying tribute to Abraham Lincoln on his natal day, February 12th, but in many other lands his virtues are told and men are made better through the example of his wonderful life. His sayings reach the hearts of men and move them to like action. We need today his uncompromising honesty. He said, "You may burn my body to ashes and scatter them to the winds of heaven. You may drag my soul down to the regions of darkness and despair to be tormented forever; but you will never get me to support a measure which I believe to be wrong, although by so doing I may accomplish that which I believe to be right. I know that the Lord is always on the side of the right; but it is my constant anxiety and prayer that I and this nation should be on the Lord's side. "Here are 23 ministers of different denominations and all of them are against me but three, and here are a great many prominent members of churches; a very large majority are against me. I have carefully read the Bible and I do not so understand this book," and he drew forth a pocket New Testament. "These men well know that I am for freedom in the territories, freedom everywhere as the Constitution and the laws will permit, and that my opponents are for slavery. They know this and yet, with this book in their hands, in the light of which human bondage cannot live a moment they are going to vote against me; I do not understand it at all. I know there is a God, and that He hates injustice and slavery. I see the. Storm coming, and I know that His hand is in it. If He has a place and work for me, and I think He has, I believe I am ready. J am nothing, but truth is everything; I know I am right, because I know that liberty is right, for Christ teaches it, and Christ is God. I have told them that a house divided against itself 130 cannot stand, and Christ and reason say the same, and they will find it so. Douglas doesn't care whether slavery is voted up or down, but God cares, and humanity cares, and I care, and with God's help I shall not fail. I may not see the end; but it will come and I shall be vindicated, and these men will find they have not read their Bible right." We need his faith to drive us to our knees. He said, "I have been driven many times to my knees by the overwhelming conviction that I had nowhere else to go. My own wisdom and that of all about me seemed insufficient for that day." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Through his fearless honesty and trust in God's direction, he grew according to his need; his mind mastered the problems that confronted him, and as the problems grew so did his comprehension of them. It is not often that a man is so well fitted to successfully cope with the crises of an epoch-making time. During the four years of the Civil War, while his resources and magnanimity were sorely tried, he was never found wanting. Through his courage, justice, even temper, fertile counsel and his deep humanity 'he stood an heroic figure, the center of an heroic age." Passing of Julina L. Smith T the ripe age of 86 Sister Julina Lamson Smith died at the home of her daughter, Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler, Friday, January 10, 1936, Sister Smith was the wife of President Joseph F. Smith and ever stood by his side aiding him in whatever he undertook to do. She was the mother of eleven children, nine of whom survive her, among them Joseph Fielding Smith, of the Council of the Twelve and David A. Smith, First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric. 72 grandchildren and 25 great-grandchildren are left to honor her..- In addition to her work as wife and mother, which was always well done, she labored for thirty years in the Relief Society Organization, serving as a member of the General Board from 1892 'til 1921. For years she was counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells. She established the burial clothes department while she was in office. She was one of the signers of the Articles of Incorporation. After working for a long time in the Endowment House, she was among the first called to labor in the Salt Lake Temple. She was a successful obstetrician and many mothers bless her for her able and systematic help. Sister Smith once said: "A woman who would make a success of her life must endeavor to make her home an altar of peace, love and companionship. Her husband should rest confident in her gentle solicitude, and her children trust in her unfailing wisdom. Such an ideal does not imply wealth, education nor brilliant gifts. Faith, affection, fidelity, industry, and above all, integrity, constitute the requirements for such a happy woman's life and success." Those who knew her most intimately will testify that she in her life exemplified this preachment. Sister Smith was firm in her conviction, kindly in her attitude, devoted to her family, friends and the Church. Her sons and daughters have a rich legacy bequeathed to them from this noble woman and their illustrious father. EDITORIAL 131 Great Britain Mourns "Two of England's illustrious sons passed to the Great Beyond in January, 1936. Rudyard Kipling, the noted writer, and King George, Great Britain's beloved monarch. These two have played their parts well. The one by contributing to the world's literature lasting poetry and fiction, the other by reigning wisely and well. They will ever be remembered among the illustrious great who have added laurels to Great Britain's galaxy.