One Pearl By Judge Nephi Jensen ND so you paid ten thousand for this old farm," remarked Harry Hemingway with the slow drawl, characteristic of the men of the Blue Mountain state, who measure their words as well as weigh them. "Yes," assented John Smith who stood just inside the gate to his newly acquired Vermont home. And before Hemingway's cynical chuckle subsided, Smith added with apparent enthusiastic pride, "I would have given ten times ten thousand if I had it and had not been able to close the deal for less money." Hemingway laughed as heartily as his New England staid conservatism would permit. When Hemingway's subdued laughter got under control, he ventured to inquire, "What is the peculiar attraction about this particular farm?" "Since you want to know, I will tell you. Some years ago I became rather fond of Emerson's poetry. Of course you will wonder what poetry has to do with the attractiveness of a farm. I admit that the relationship is rather remote. But one day while I was in a sort of mystical mood, I read these lines from Emerson: "T go to seek my native hearthstone Bosomed in yon glen alone, A secret nock, a pleasant land Whose grove the frolic fairies planned, Where arches green the live-long day Echo the blackbird's roundelay, And brutal feet have never trod? A spot that's sacred to thought and God." "The serene charm and rhythm of the lines impressed me profoundly. They sent me into a reverie of thought. A moving picture of familiar landscapes, and oft seen and cherished dales and coves, passed through my mind. I became obsessed with the desire of finding a spot of earth that imparts the delight of perfect solitude. I immediately forgot other concerns, and went in search of a place possessing the charm of peaceful serenity. For years I traveled. I searched. One day I learned that this farm was for sale. In walking over the place I came one day to a densely wooded spot near the sparkling clear creek that merrily sings hard by. I found a little perfectly secluded retreat within this clump of trees. I entered it, and a spirit of prefect peace and serenity took possession of me. Every vestige of discord left me, and I felt the deep beauty of the 'solemnity of eternity.' "I determined: then and there to purchase the farm at any price within my reach." "That is the strangest motive for buying a farm I ever heard of," observed Hemingway dryly. "T suppose it is," assented Smith. "But the strangest part of my story is yet to be told. You will laugh a side-shaking laugh when you hear it. One day after purchasing the place, while I was making a close examination of this sylvan nook, I discovered a precious pearl near the edge of the water. I eagerly picked it up and took it to the house. You will hardly believe me when I tell you that when I entered the house with the gem I experienced the same infinite peace that I discovered in the ONE PEARL 77 little grove. I immediately concluded that the pearl actually radiated peace and contentment." "That is quite a spooky story, I should say," rejoined Hemingway with a chuckle. "Spooky or not spooky, it is true. Moreover, I have discovered that no matter where I go, if I have this pearl with me, my soul is calm and serene." "Well, that is a story,' Hemingway commented with a_ skeptical twist to his intonations. He walked away from Smith with the incipient notion that Smith was a little odd. As he thought about the strange story he had just heard, he found himself resorting to a harsher word in his description of Smith. He concluded that Smith was a fanatic. W HEN Hemingway got home, he told his wife the strange story of the new found pearl. Of course he embellished the narrative with superlative adjectives; and punctuated the recital with cynical chuckles. In a few days the peculiar story was the common property of the neighborhood. Dame gossip _became the efficient publicity agent for Hemingway. And she was not parsimonious in the distribution of her wares. As the story sped from lip to lip, it took on an ever-increasing number of descriptive titiles for the quiet, cultured and unassuming Mr. Smith. It was not long before he commenced to observe an ill-disguised attempt on the part of his neighbors to conceal their frigidity toward him. As he passed them on the street, he at times noticed rather curious stares, the raising of eyebrows, and furtive whispered comments. Acrid he migrated to the West. Slander soon augmented the mischief wrought by ruthless rumor, and unoffending Smith commenced to be harrassed, ostracized, and even persecuted. His persistent aloofness from the activities of the local church, together with his well-known pronounced convictions, and _ rather original ideas of what is vital in religion, only added to the disapprobation in which he was now held by the community. Although he was a man of fine literary attainments, unimpeachable probity, of retiring habits, and unobtrusive in his religious predilections, he found himself to be the unpleasant victim of a cruel mal-social adjustment. He was compelled to sell his farm for little or nothing. WHE his family, consisting of a refined wife and two children, On the long and weary trek westward, they were ill-fed, afflicted at times, and subjected to the harsh rigors of the wild, trackless plains. Untamed savages lurked in the way and threatened their peace and menaced their lives. But they slowly and courageously traveled toward the setting sun. They were sustained and inspired by the sublime faith that their wearysome journey was but a brief chapter in their eternal development. This precious faith was kept alive by the Pearl they carried with them. When they reached their destination, Smith set to work with renewed energy and characteristic persistence to establish a new home. By dint of hard work, wise planning, thrift, and frugality, he soon made his home in an inviting little farming community pleasant and comfortable. In a few years wide-spreading  green pastures, waving grain fields, and lawns and orchards added to the profit, comfort and charm of their western home. And sheep, together with a snug deposit at the bank, justified Smith and his family in looking to the future with comforting assurance of continued plenty. UT adversity never abandons his destructive work. Just at the time when fortune smiled most pleasantly on the Smith home, ruthless adversity was just around the corner, planning wide-spread, economic devastation. A financial cataclysm shook the economic structure of our fabulously rich country from center to circumference; and left an industrial paralysis in which millions of Americans walked the streets in rags, shivered in the cold, and opened their unfed mouths and cried for bread in the presence of rotting abundance. It was one of history's most ghastly tragedies. The bank in which Smith had deposited his savings was forced into liquidation. When the lawyers and receivers got their shares, Smith received a paltry five hundred for his In the meansubstantial thousands. Herds of cattle time he was compelled to meet his notes at the bank given for money borrowed to increase his herds and extend his much prized acres. Foreclosure followed foreclosure until Smith's title to his home hung in the balance. CHRISTMAS Eve, 1893, found Smith sitting near the open fireplace in his library. The lights were out; and the flickering flame on the hearth revealed rows upon rows of highly prized books that had been collected and read through the years. Smith leaned toward the fire and held his head between his hands. He was in deep brown study. His wife sat near. Her tresses were now streaked with gray. Smith started to speak. He hesitated. He was afraid what the cruel effect of what he was about to say would have upon his wife. He started again. "We just can't save the home." "T know it," she mused cheerily. "All is lost." "All is not lost," she retorted with a heart-touching firmness, as tears of gratitude came into her eyes. "We still have everything. We have the Pearl of Great Price."