Earth and Stars By Rosannah C. Irvine A PLAY IN ONE ACT. THREE SCENES Cast of Characters Norma Lewis, afterwards NorMA DurFFIN. She ls about twenty-three years old, with a buoyancy and sweetness which are almost submerged at the present time by baffled hopes. Jimmy DurFin, Norma's sweetheart, afterward her husband. He ts about twenty-four years old, but in the first two scenes appears much older. He looks and feels like a derelict, and sometimes finds himself acting like one. Miss Mary Morton, a welfare worker with an understanding heart. Mrs. NANn Bowers, a woman who loves to give. SCENE 1 The curtain rises on a quiet corner of a city park. Norma is discovered sitting on a bench. Her clothes are well made and in good style, but are shabby. Her face is rather beautiful in spite of the effects of hunger and suffering which show plainly through her makeup. She is neat and clean. She glances anxiously around as if watching for someone. She looks sad and disheartened. In a moment or two after the curtain rises, Jimmy enters. Jimmy, is shabby, unshaved, and undernourished. He is-marked with defeat and despair. He has a sullen, hang-dog expression, combined with a furtive, hunted look in his eyes. Norma?Hello, Jimmy. I'd just about given you up. What's the matter? You look excited. Jimmy?(Throws himself on the bench at her side. Irritably,) Im not excited. I'm tired. I've been working. Norma?(Amazed) Oh Jimmy! Have you really got work? Is it steady? What kind of work is it? Jimmy?(Trying to master his feverishness) It was only a little job, but the man felt sorry for me I guess and gave me five bucks. I think I can get some more when I go after it again. (He speaks as if he had learned a piece by heart.) Norma?(Delighted) I think that's wonderful, Jimmy. What kind of work is it? Engineering? Jimmy?(Shortly) No! It's a new opening. I can't talk about it yet. Norma?(anxiously) It isn't anything shady, is it? Jimmy?No! (Then fiercely) A man has a right to live! From now on, I'm going to? (His voice breaks. He lays his head on his arm, hiding his face.) Norma?(Sympathetically) What is it, Jimmy? Tell me. Jimmy?(Siruggling to gain his composure) I might as well tell you. You'd find it out anyway. I haven't had any work. I found the money. EARTH AND STARS 85 Norma?(Apprehensively) Where did you find it, Jimmy? Did you try to find the owner? Jimmy?(Crossly) Well, what do you think? No one hunts for money they drop on the street, even if they ever miss it. Norma? (Still unconvinced) I don't see how anyone could lose it on the street. If anyone had it out counting it, he would surely miss it. Wouldn't he? (Then easing her conscience) If you inquired, a dozen people might claim it. Let's accept it as a gift from the skies. When did you eat last, Jimmy? Jimmy?I don't know. Yesterday noon, I believe. Norma?Well, I beat you on that then. I had a long glass of milk this morning. Where did you sleep last night, Jimmy? JimmMy?On a bench in the park. (Coughs). Caught a little cold, too. NorMa?You poor kid! I thought that you slept with a night watchman or something. Jimmy?I have most of the time lately. But he's gone on his vacation now. I went there three or four nights ago, and the fellow who's taken his place told me to go and jump in the lake. So I slept in the hoos gow for two nights. Norma?(Shocked) Oh Jimmy! Jimmy?lIt's a lot better than sleeping on a bench in the park, or on a cement floor. I had a good bed there, the first I've slept in for weeks. Norma?Oh Jimmy, I didn't know things were that bad with you. Jimmy?Say, lady, you ain't heard nothin' yet. (Pause) I'm sick and tired. I'm at the end of my rope. There's plenty of money and food in the world. I'm willing to work for my share of it. (Wildly) I tell you I'm willing to work. I'll do anything. But I won't tramp the streets and starve any longer, looking for a chance to work for what I need to keep me alive. If they won't let me work I'll beat the game somehow. I can out smart some of these smart guys yet. Norma?Jimmy, I've never heard you talk that way before. What's the matter with you? You shouldn't talk that way even in fun. Jimmy?(Sullenly) I'm hungry and discouraged. That's what's the matter with me. You know well enough. And if you think that's funny, you're mistaken. I'm telling you I was never more serious in my life. I've tried to get work. I've tried to be decent and square. Where's it got me? Sleeping in jail and begging for food. And where's it got you? Norma?Well, so far we've kept our self respect. But hunger does play the dickens with one's ideals. I've been so hungry sometimes lately I could have robbed a baby's bank if I had seen one lying around handy. (Jimmy starts to say something, then changes his mind.) Jimmy?( After a pause) Well, that's that! Norma, will you marry me? Norma?(Stariled) Why Jimmy, this is so sudden. Jimmy?lI know, and I haven't a thing on earth to offer you. But I do love you. Think it over for a minute. And don't think I've gone looney. A married man has a lot better chance to get work than a single man. An unmarried man is considered a tramp, and treated like one. It's a lot easier to get on relief, too, if you're married. (Suddenly losing  control of himself.) Wve been treated worse than a dog. I've had doors slammed in my face by sleek, smug women with fat poodles in their arms. Norma?They spat on Jesus, you know. Someone said that God never gave anyone an impossible task to do, if they would remember Jesus and? Jimmy?(Interrupting her crossly) Oh, for pity's sake don't preach! That's more than I can bear. You talk a lot about God. What's He ever done for either of us? He's too far away to hear our prayers. He certainly isn't very fatherly. I'm all off on asking Him for anything any more. Norma?(Shocked) Jimmy! You mustn't talk like that! It's wicked. Jimmy?(Shrilly) Be quiet, I tell you! I can't stand your eternal preaching. I suppose you think it's all right to let your children starve. (Norma is too wise to argue or take offense. She realizes that his nerves are at the breaking point. She sits quietly until he has gained control of himself. For about ten seconds there ts tense silence. The emotional feeling must be sustained even though no word is spoken.) Jimmy?(Penitently) Norma, I'm sorry. This thing has got me, but I have no business taking it out on you. Especially when I had just proposed. Norma?(Laughing) And before I'd even accepted you. Any one would think you were a crotchety old man and tired of my companionship, the way you flew at me. (They burst into hysterical laughter. Sitting hand in hand, they rock back and forth laughing until they are weak.) Jimmy?(Gaining control of his emotions, speaks with difficulty.) Norma darling, will you marry me in spite of my crazy temper? (Norma, still laughing weakly, nods her head. Jimmy puts his arm around her.) ';. Tv?,, Jimmy?Come darling, brace up. You mustn't have hysterics on your Wedding day. NormMa?(Wiping her eyes, looks up at him smiling.) I think that's the craziest and sweetest proposal a girl ever had. Both of us starving. Both hysterical. No work. No money. Jimmy?(taking the five dollar bill out of his pocket and waving it before her) You forget the five bucks. Enough to buy a license and a dinner. And we'll leave the rest to fate. I'd like to give you a ring. I suppose we have to have one, don't we? Norma?(ruefully) Yes. And I pawned my last one last month to pay my rent. But we can buy one good enough for the time being at the Five and Ten. I saw some pretty ones there the other day for a quarter. Jimmy?(Ashamed) And I would like to give you one of platinum and diamonds. (He gets up abruptly and walks about. Then fiercely) And I will too. You mark my word. You'll have diamonds, and (with a wide inclusive gesture) everything you want,?and money to burn, before you're a year older. Norma?Oh, I haven't had it so hard. Not nearly so hard as you have. And I don't want fine things. I've never wanted to be rich. I'd like to have enough to keep us respectably,?and plenty to eat. I've been EARTH AND STARS 87 hungry sometimes and discouraged very often. But I've had a decent room to sleep in at least. Jimmy?Darling, you're a brick. Are you sure you don't want to back out? Norma?Certain sure. (Then dramatically, as if struck by a terrible thought.) Can it be that you want me to marry you for the sake of getting work, mister? Jimmy?(Crossly) What gave you that cock-eyed idea? You know perfectly well I've been crazy in love with you ever since the first day I saw you. Norma?lIt's mutual, darling. I'd rather be your wife than live in a palace. Jimmy?That's complimentary and comforting. But I must warn you, my dear, '"Thou art wedded to calamity." Norma?(Laughing) Now I'll tell one. Listen to this, "A pleasant companion on a journey is as good asa carriage." And I know some more, too. How's this? "The good ship Matrimony is always seaworthy provided the passengers do not rock the boat." Jimmy?(fesponding almost gaily) Well, for two starving lunatics, we're doing pretty well at repartee. Seeing we're airing our culture, so to speak, I'll say with Brutus, "Oh, ye gods, make me worthy of this noble wife." Norma?shakespeare again! Well, I'm too far gone for a come back. Let's crawl to the nearest hot dog stand, or I'll be 'remains' before I'm a bride. Jimmy?No hot dog stand for our wedding feast. I know a neat little cafe less than half a block away, where we can get a steak and ice cream. Norma?Oh darling, lead me to it! (They go out as the curtain falls.) SCENE 2: The Welfare office of Miss Mary Morton. It ts furnished with the usual office equipment, a desk, two or three chairs, an office bench, magazines, papers, and a telephone. Miss Morton is seated at her desk. She is looking over some reports, and making notes. She is plainly dressed, and is wholesome and kind. There is a long enough pause after the curtain rises for the audience to get tha atnuosphere of the place. Then Mrs. Bowers enters. She is well dressed, cheerful, and friendly. Miss Morton?(Glancing up) Hello, Nan. Sit down and excuse me for a minute, till I finish this report. (She continues her writing. Mrs. Bowers walks restlessly about. Miss Morton continues writing for a moment or two, then puts her papers away and looks up at her friend smiling. Miss Morton?Well, my dear, what's on your mind? Mrs. BowEers?Mary, I'm ina jam! The Bergers have walked out on me. Miss Morton?The Bergers? Who are they? Mrs. Bowers?Why, you know, Mary. They're the couple I've had on my place in Ferndell. And they've departed, leaving me high and dry. Some of the crops are not in yet,?and baby chicks and turkeys,?and. Everything. Oh, it's a fright! Miss Morton?Well, that is too bad.  Mrs. Bowers?(Tragically) Too bad? It's tragic! Mary, you've got to help me. Miss Morton?I? What can I do? I'm no farmer and his wife. Mrs. Bowers?Don't be silly! Get me another couple! I've simply got to have some one out there tonight. There are the cows to milk, and chickens to feed. And tonight's my turn for the water. Miss Morton?Well, I don't know what I can do. I've never happened to have a farmer couple as clients yet. Mrs. Bowers?Well, you're going to have some now. I don't care where you get them from. But get them. Miss Morton?What do you think Tam? A magician? You can't expect me to pull farmers out of a hat like rabbits, you know. Mrs. Bowers?That's exactly what I do expect you to do. Come on, Mary, be a sport. You know very well you can get any kind at any time. You've never failed yet. You just can't fail me now. Miss Mortron?Oh, can't I? Well, just watch me. (She closes her desk, takes her pocket book, puts on her hat) It's closing time and I'm off for the evening. I wish I could help you, Nan. But really I can't this time. (Norma and Jimmy enter at this moment. They appear embarrassed and awkward. Norma has a cheap ring on the third finger of her left hand. She looks almost happy. Jinumy is less dejected than he was in the first scene. He has a slight air of bravado, mingled with his former spirit of defeat.) Miss Morton?(FPleasantly) How do you do? What can I do for you? Jimmy?(Taking off his ragged hat. Diffidently.) Some one told us to come to you for help. We're out of work and have no money. Mrs. Bowers?(Gesticulating frantically behind their backs, says with her lips, Get them. They'll do. They're just what I want. Then aloud) I'm going to drive around a bit, Mary. I'll be back in fifteen minutes. I expect you to have everything fixed up for me by that time. (Exit). Miss Morton?(Sitting down at her desk again. To Jimmy) What is your name? Jrmmy?I'm James Duffin. This is my wife, Norma Duffin. (During the interview Miss Morton takes notes. Quite unobtrusively. Merely as if she were jotting down an occasional idea, and not putting her clients through an inquisition.) Miss Morron?How long have you been married? Jimmy?A little over an hour. Norma, show the lady our marriage certificate. Miss Morton?My name is Mary Morton. Most people call me Miss - Mary. Suppose you sit down. (They sit on the bench. Miss Morton takes the certificate, looks at it, and returns it to Norma who replaces it in her pocket book.) Miss Morton?Why did you get married when you had neither work nor money? Jimmy?(With an attempt at a smile) We thought that as long as we had to be miserable, we might as well be happy about it. (Pause) We understood that the chances for getting work were better if we were married. And if we were married we could go on relief. Miss Morton?Do you want to go on relief? EARTH AND STARS 89 Jimmy?No! I should say not! That's the last thing we do want to do, except die of hunger. We both thought we'd rather starve. But we discovered that's not so pleasant and heroic as it sounds. Not by a long shot. Miss Morton?What kind of work have you tried to get? Jimmy?Everything from electrical engineering to street sweeping. Miss Morton?Have you had any experience in engineering? Jimmy?(growing somewhat belligerent and sullen under the questioning) I graduated last year in electrical engineering. I was an honor student. Miss Morton?And you haven't been able to get anything along that line? Jimmy?Not a tap. Miss Morton?That's strange. What kind of work have you had? Jimmy?Just odd jobs. And then one month as dishwasher in a Chinese joint. Miss Morton?That wasn't permanent? Jimmy?I should say not. I couldn't eat the food. Miss Morton?Even though it was free? Jimmy?lIt wasn't free at that. It was-charged up against me whether I ate or not. Norma?He lost twenty-five pounds while he was there. Miss Morton?I can imagine more pleasant ways of reducing. Aren't you working either, Norma? Norma?lI haven't had anything for three months. I was companion to a lady, but she died. Her people didn't need me after that. Miss Morton?What were your duties? Norma?I read to her mostly. Answered her letters. Brushed her hair. Took care of her clothes. And made myself generally useful. Miss Morton?Have you tried to get another position? Norma?Yes, I've tried everything. But I'm not specially trained. And (in confusion) her relatives wouldn't give me a reference. Miss Morton?Why was that? NorMa?tThey accused me of stealing Miss Goodwin's jewels. Miss Morton?Muiss Abigail Goodwin of Fairview? Norma?Yes, Miss Morton. Miss Morton?Did Miss Goodwin think you had taken them? Norma?Oh no! It was after Miss Goodwin died. Miss Goodwin never would have suspected me. She would have known who took them. Miss Morton?Do you suspect some one? (During this part of the conversation, Jimmy sits staring into space.) Norma?Yes, I do. But it wouldn't do any good to say anything. It would only make things worse. Miss Morton?That is probably true. But would you mind telling me? Norma?Yourre sort of a professional, aren't you? I guess it would be like telling things to your doctor or lawyer, wouldn't it? Miss Morton?Exactly, my dear. We have to know all about a case in order to give the most help. But we don't break confidences. Norma?Well, it will be a relief to tell some one and get it off my chest. I'm sure that Miss Goodwin's niece took them,  Miss Mortron?What makes you think that? Have you any grounds for your suspicion? Norma?Yes, but nothing that the family would believe. She took things of Miss Goodwin's several times. And her aunt knew it. She used to get awfully angry with Sally sometimes. Miss Morron?You can't prove your innocence? Norma?No. I have no proof except my word. Miss Morton?Did they prosecute you? Norma?(Bitterly) No. They said my conscience would make me suffer enough. Miss Morton?(Sympathetically) Not giving you a reference and accusing you of theft are quite a punishment. You are fortunate not to have permitted it to embitter you. Norma?Oh, but it has. Sometimes I feel desperate. But it does no good to rail against fate. I've tried to keep cheerful. But I'd certainly like to see Sally Goodwin suffer. Miss Morron?That's natural, I suppose. (Turning to Jimmy) Next to engineering what would you like to do? Jimmy?(Looks up startled. His thoughts are far away.) 1??Oh,?I'd like to be a farmer. Miss Morton?(Surprised. She suddenly remembers Mrs. Bowers.) What! Are you a farmer? Jimmy?No, Miss Morton. I've never been on a farm in my life. But I know I'd like it. J always used to mow the lawn at home. Miss Morton?(Smiling) It's a far cry from mowing a city lawn to mowing ten acres of hay, my son. But it's a grand idea. Do you think you could do the work? Farming's no child's play. (Mrs. Bowers enters) Hello, Nan. I was hoping you'd come back soon. I want you to meet Mr. And Mrs. Jimmy Duffin. They want to goona farm. Do you think you could accommodate them? (Jimmy rises to his feet when Mrs. Bowers enters, and remains standing until she sits down, which she does now, suddenly.). Mrs. Bowers?( Astonished) Why, yes, Houdini. J believe I can. (Turning to Norma) Don't you loathe people who don't believe in Santa Claus? I've always known there was one. (To Jimmy) I have a thirty acre place about twenty miles out. It is well equipped. There's a little three roomed shack on it and a few sticks of furniture. Are you a good farmer, young man? Jimmy?(Abashed) No, Mrs. Bowers. I have never? Miss Morton?(Interrupting) No Nan. He knows less about farming than a baby. But he needs work, and he thinks he'd like farming. Mrs. Bowers?Do you know how to milk? Jimmy?A cow, do you mean? Norma?(quoting a nonsense rhyme softly) "T never saw a Purple Cow I never hope to see one; But I can tell you anyhow, I'd rather see than be one," EARTH AND STARS 9] Jimmy?(turning to her. Seriously) Gosh! So would I. [ never saw real cows but once. That was at a fair. There weren't any purple ones there. They were all kinds of yellowish brown. They were nice looking fellows. They had kind eyes. Mrs. BowErs?(Rather non-plussed) Well, here's a pretty how-do-you-do. Can you ride? Jimmy?aA horse? Mrs. Bowers?(With good humored sarcasm) What do you suppose I meant? A broom stick? Jimmy?(Embarrassed, but laughing a hitle with the others) I rode a horse once, but not for long. He was a great, tall creature, with a neck like a giraffe. Some of the fellows at school were going for a ride and they got this nag for me. I was ashamed to tell them I'd never been on a horse. I knew they'd find out soon enough. I'll never forget how far away the ground looked. I managed to stay on till we came to a little stream, and that fool horse put his: head down to drink. I went down that long neck and into the water before I knew what had happened. (They all laugh. Mrs. Bowers laughs until the tears come into her eves. Jimmy laughs mildly at the recollection.) Mrs. BowErs?(W ping her eyes and struggling for breath) A hot farmer you are, my boy. Do you think you would know which end of a horse to put in the shafts of a buggy? Jimmy?(fleasanily) I think I'd point his head in the direction I wanted him to go. (Then soberly) Mrs. Bowers, I don't know the first thing about farming. But I've got to have work. I'm strong and willing to learn. Will you give me try? Mrs. Bowers?(going to him, and patting him on the back) That's the spirit I like to see, my boy! Sure I'll give you a try. And I know you'll make good. (Turning to Norma) How will you like farming, Mrs. Duffin? Norma?(Eagerly) Oh Mrs. Bowers, I'm sure I'll just love it! Mrs. Bowrers?You're in the infant class, too, are you? Well, I like you both. And you've got the right kind of stuff in you. Can you go out with me tonight? NORMA AND JIMMY?(together) Yes. Right now, if you like. Mrs. Bowrers?Good! Let's get going then. Where's your luggage? NorMaA AND Jimmy?(together) I haven't any. Mrs. Bowrers?Come on then. I can lend you. A few duds. So long, Mary. And thanks. Miss Morton?(shaking hands all round.) Goodby, Nan. Let me know how it goes. Goodby, Jimmy. Goodby, Norma. Best of luck to you both in your new ventures. I hope your honeymoon will last forever. And that you'll surprise even the optomistic Mrs. Bowers with your farming ability. Jimmy?Goodby, Miss Morton. I can't thank you enough for this chance. Norma?Goodby, Miss Morton. Many thanks. I'll bring you a pound of butter when I learn how to make it. (Miss Morton stands smiling after them as they go out. The curtain falls.)  SCENE 3 It is six months later. The curtain rises on the living roam of the little house on Mrs. Bowers' farm. The room is plainly furnished, but is neat and clean. Fresh muslin curtains at the windows, a few pictures on the walls, a few potted plants or vases of flowers, books and magazines make the place look home-like and attractive. Three chairs, a small table, a couch, and a footstool complete the furnishings of the room. Norma is sitting by a window putting a patch on a clean pair of overalls. She is singing softly to herself. She looks well and happy. Six months of hard work, country air, and nourishing food have taken the lines from her face and restored the peace to her soul. A few moments after the curtain rises Jimmy enters, whistling. He is weary and shows the effects of farm labor. His face and hands and clothes are soiled. But he is smiling and happy. Jimmy?Hello Honey. How's my girl? Norma?Best ever. Dinner's in the oven. It'll be ready before you are if you don't speed up. I filled the tub for your bath, and laid out your clean clothes. |. Jrmmy?Thanks, a lot, hon. I'll be seein' you. (He disappears into the kitchen). Norma?(calling to him) There's plenty of hot water in the teakettle and reservoir if you need more. Jrmmy?(calling from other room) This is fine as to temperature. It's space I need. To be really comfortable in this washtub I ought to weigh about a ton less and be able to fold up like a jack knife. Norma?Think of the times when you'd have been thankful for a wash tub. Jimmy?Shall I ever forget! But I've graduated from the class of the great unwashed. I love my two daily baths. Norma?I hope not. (Pause) I'm going down to see if there's any mail. I think I heard the postman's whistle. (She goes out. Jimmy is heard whistling, talking, splashing, and moving about. He has not heard Norma leave the room.) Jimmy?(calling) Say, Norma, Mr. Davis wants me to help him with his wheat next week. And he's going to help me with our sunporch. How's that for luck? (Then after a pause) Oh say, Norma, how would you like to be a keeper of bees? Mr. Davis told me today that Mrs. Bowers wants him to get me interested in bee culture. You know, it's a funny thing. I've always had a longing to raise bees. So we're to have an apiary. Twelve hives. Think of that! Isn't that great? Mr. Davis is going to put me onto the ropes. And best of all, we're to share in the profits. (Pause) What's the matter? Are you struck dumb? It's a great life. I never worked so hard in my life and I was never so happy. We're on the up and up. Aren't we? (Pause) Hi, Norma! What's the matter? (Jimmy comes into the living room. He its moist from his bath. He ls combing his hair, which is wet.) All alone? And that brilliant conversation wasted. (Norma enters. She has a farm journal and two letters. She hands one letter to Jimmy.) Norma?A letter for you. And one for me, from Miss Mary. Shall I read it aloud? (Jimmy has opened his own letter and doesn't hear her, he is so engrossed in what he is reading.) EARTH AND STARS 93 Norma?(Opening her letter reads aloud) My dear Norma:?The first thing I want to tell you is how happy I am at your success. You and Jimmy have both fulfilled my highest expectations. Mrs. Bowers is delighted with the way you are doing. She sings your praises constantly. My great piece of news, however, is even more gratifying. As I told you some time ago, I went to see the Goodwins. I went again the other day, and I mentioned you again. They seemed very much embarrassed, but no one said anything. Yesterday Sally came to see me. She made a clean breast of it. It was just as you thought. She had taken the jewels and pawned them to pay a debt. She redeemed them a short time ago. So of course the family knew all about it. She is truly sorry, I am sure. That clears you, my dear. I knew you were innocent, but it's nice to have every cloud banished. I think you'll see or hear from Sally soon. She asked for your address. Love to you both. Devotedly, your friend, Mary Morton. Isn't that great, Jimmy? (No answer) Jimmy! Wake up! Jimmy! Come to the party. (Jimmy has been reading his own letter. At first his face beams with pleasure. Then he glances anxiously at his wife. As she reads her letter, happy and unconscious of his perplexity, he sits and gazes into space until her calling him awakens his attention. He looks up suddenly and comes to himself with a start.) Jimmy?What did you say, darling? Norma?Oh Jimmy, shame on you. I read you my letter and you didn't hear one word I said. Jimmy?I'm sorry, dear. I'm afraid I didn't. Tell me about it. Norma?Miss Mary says that Mrs. Bowers is delighted with us, and best of all Sally Goodwin has confessed about taking her aunt's jewels. Andam I happy! Whom is your letter from? (Jimmy doesn't answer. Norma opens the new magazine and looks through it. Jimmy stares into space) If we don't turn out to be the best agriculturists in the community it won't be Mrs. Bowers fault. She certainly has a yen for sending all kinds of helpful literature to us. Here's a new one. (Then noticing Jimmy's abstraction) What's the matter, darling? Anything wrong? (Jimmy gets up impulsively, comes over to her side and sits down on the footstool, leaning against her.) Jimmy?(Soberly) Norma, we've been happy, haven't we? Norma?(Anxiously) Why of course, darling. Jimmy, what's the matter? Jimmy?(Gravely) Norma dearest, I've got to tell you something. But first, say that you love me. Norma?(Tenderly stroking his hair) Of course, my dear. So much that sometimes I'm afraid of being so happy. Jimmy?(Kisses her hand and holds it tightly in his own while he talks) Norma, you remember the day we were married I told you I'd found that five dollars? Norma?Yes dear. Jimmy?(with an effort) Well,?I didn't find it. I stole it. Norma?(faintly) I?you? Jimmy?(Interrupting her) Don't speak yet, dear. Let me explain. I was desperate. I was so hungry I picked up a raw potato on the  street and ate it dirt and all. I passed a hot dog stand on my way to meet you. All in a second I decided that I had to eat. I knew | couldn't pay for it, but I didn't care. I went up and ordered a dog and a glass of milk. While the man was fixing it for me, the man next to me laid down a five dollar bill to pay for what he'd had. Just then a fire siren shrieked, and everybody turned to look down the street. I grabbed the bill and beat it. In the confusion I got away. Oh Norma, I've suffered tortures since then. I wanted to tell you, but have been afraid of losing your love. I'm so sorry and ashamed. Can you forgive me and love me still? (He buries his face against her arm. She strokes his head softly, but remains silent. Jimmy raises his head in a moment or two and looks at her greatly distressed) Norma darling, please don't think I'm a thief. I'm not. That's the only thing I ever took in my life. Norma?(Slowly, and with an effort) No Jimmy, you're no more guilty than I am. I believe I knew that you had stolen that money. And I believe I was glad, although if you had told me I probably would have pretended to be shocked. At that moment I was so low myself that it seemed almost right. We were in such desperate need. Jimmy?( After a long silence) 1 want to tell you now, Norma, what a narrow escape you had from marrying a criminal. No one ever came nearer becoming one than I did that day. I had fully determined, after I took that money, that I would use my wits and get what I wanted no matter by what means. Norma?I know just how you felt. I was fighting hard to keep from feeling the same way. It seemed to me that all of a sudden my ideals were slipping. For the time being I seemed to forget that life means so much more than food and shelter. Jimmy?It was this lovely farm that saved me. I don't believe that even marrying you would have done the trick. I was justifying myself that we both had a right to live. (Pause) But getting back to nature! It's been wonderful! Norma?I don't think any one could be bad who loved nature as we do. Jimmy?I know I'm a different man. Darling, you married a potential criminal, and look at me now. Norma?(fondly) Now you're a potential farmer, and the world's best husband. Jimmy?(Puffing out his chest proudly) You're telling me! (Then seriously) Norma, I can never be grateful enough to my Heavenly Father for this chance. Do you remember what I said that day about His not being fatherly? I rejected Him. I'm glad He didn't take me at my word and cast me off. Norma?That's one thing God never does is to punish His children for foolish remarks. I think He seldom takes people at their word. And didn't Miss Morton and Mrs. Bowers come on the scene in the nick of time? That day was the turning point in our lives. We can see that now. Jimmy?Will you ever forget the night we came out here? After the EARTH AND STARS 95 chores were done and Mrs. Bowers had left us, and we stood alone gazing at the friendly stars? Norma?I never could forget. Didn't the stars seem kind, twinkling down at us? The peace of the night seemed like a benediction. I thought of what you had said about God not caring. I felt, as we stood there in the soft stillness of the night, that He had sent us home to a kind and understanding mother, who enveloped us in her tender arms. It was so unbelievably sweet and peaceful that [ had a little weep all by myself. Jimmy?lI know. Your tears dropped on my hand. I wanted to tell you then about the money, but I was afraid to break the spell. Normma?It's a good thing perhaps that we didn't have any confessions that night. We didn't know nor love each other then as we do now. Jimmy?This getting close to nature and your love have done wonders for me. Norma?And work, Jimmy. Don't forget how much that has done too. Jimmy?Sure. Don't I know it! Hard work, and the feel of the soil, and the fresh air, and the stars at night! It's wonderful what it does toa fellow. Norma?I don't know which I love better the sunrise or the sunset. But I know I love the stars best of all. I grow calm and happy and safe just gazing at them. Jimmy?(Abruptly) Oh say, I want to read you the letter I got. I didn't tell you, but Mr. Davis gave me five dollars a while ago for some work I did for him. I sent it to the man at the hot dog stand, telling him to give it back to the owner if he knew who he was. If not, to use it to feed other poor wanderers like me. I hadn't heard from him for so long I thought he hadn't got my letter or had kept the money himself. (Opens letter and reads) 'Dear Sir; yours of 9th. Inst. Received. Mr. Amos Smith was the man you stole the money from. I seen you take it and run. I told Mr. Smith, and says to him I'd ketch you, but he says, 'No, leave him be. I guess the pore boy needs it.' That's the kind of a guy he is, see? He was glad you sent it back, for he didn't like to think you was a crook. He give the money to me as you said?to feed other hungry guys. Many thanks from Mr. Smith and your humble servant, Bill Brown.' Norma?(with a happy sigh) That's all that was necessary to make this day perfect. And the future gloriously bright. Lovely nature, a clear conscience, our love, work, faith, and hope. Jimmy?(Tenderly putting his arm around her) Right you are! With that combination?well?how could we lose?