2 Two of America's Greatest Men By George W. Middleton HERE is to the mind which looks at the sweep of the centuries much to justify the belief that there is a providential undertow in all human history; and that underneath the apparent will of the individual, and the overt edict of the nation, there is an unseen hand playing the game on the great checker board of time, and directing its issue to a purposeful end. Who could have imagined that the little group of colonies forming what we now see to be the eastern fringe of our country was destined to become the greatest, most powerful, wealthiest, and most intelligent nation in the world? But all that has happened, and there is yet plenty more to come. England had extended her conquests to the outposts of the world. Lord Clive had subjugated two hundred and fifty million Hindus, whose treasures were pouring into the vaults of English bankers and in perfect reassurance the English turned their attention to the new world, expecting to reap another bountiful harvest from the colonies which they had planted and acquired. But right here England came up against one of those providential characters who was born to turn the tide of history in a new direction, and to cause monarchs to topple from their thrones as meteors plunge down from the starry vault. GEORGE WASHINGTON was born at Bridges Creek, Westmoreland County, Virginia, in the year 1732. His father was a wealthy planter, and the Washingtons were rated among the elite of the colony. The father died when George was but 11 years old. The elder half brother Lawrence conceived a great liking for his sturdy young half brother, and invited him to come to Mount Vernon to live. At Belvoir, three or four miles distant, lived a family of the English aristocracy by the name of Fairfax. Old Lord Fairfax had run away from a tragic love affair in his native England and sought the solitude of the American colonies for peace of mind. Lawrence Washington had married one of the Fairfax girls, so there was a close family tie between the Washingtons and the Fairfaxes. George Washington grew into a sturdy self-reliant youth, endowed with a great fund of common sense, and a character like the rigid oak that grew from the soil of his native Westmoreland. Old Lord Fairfax developed a great liking for the boy. And took him into his employ as one  of the surveying crew to mark out the boundaries of his great estate, which embraced nearly all of Culpepper County. Washington's education was limited, because no high schools or colleges were available to him. But he was thorough in everything he did, GEORGE WASHINGTON and later in life he developed a fine penmanship, and an enviable literary style. The French occupied the country of the Great Lakes to the north, and as their colonies spread they began to swarm down into the Ohio Valley. But England and the English colonies claimed this country too. Old Governor Dinwiddie looked about for a person of discretion and courage whom he could send over the mountains with a message to the French commandant at the head waters of the Ohio. Although George Washington was only 21 years old, he was chosen for this very important errand. Through much hardship and difficulty, he and Christopher Gist made their way over the mountains and back, and when George Washington's report was reduced to writing it was thought so highly of that it was forwarded to the mother country, and printed in all the papers. Soon the French and Indian war came on and Washington was entrusted with the command of the militia from his native province. The story of Braddock's defeat is known to every school boy. The God-like courage and coolness displayed by Washington in the face of that terrible disaster were noted with pride by his fellow colonists. One preacher said in his sermon that he believed that God had raised up this heroic young man for some great service to his country. (GROWING out of the French and Indian war was the claim of the mother country that it had the right to tax the colonies, and impose such trade restrictions on them that they would be a source of increasing revenue. But England discovered to her dismay that a new breed of men had come on the scene. The group which had rallied around Washington, their great heroic leader, had breathed the breath of freedom from the air flung from Atlantic waves, and took the inspiration of the lofty mountain peaks and the great still places of the mighty untamed empire which stretched away to the setting sun. 2 GROUP of less than three million people, fully one-third of whom were in sympathy with the enemy, fought the most powerful nation on the globe, and made them sue for peace. Washington said repeatedly that God fought their battles, and the unbiased student of history must agree with him. There were times, as at Valley Forge. When the cause of America was held in the palm of the hand of this one great heroic man, and one faltering thought on his part would have re- TWO OF AMERICA'S GREATEST MEN 73 duced the struggle for liberty to dismal disaster, but he did not falter. God knew whom He could trust. FTER the surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown, we see Washington back on his plantations at Mount Vernon. He had married Martha Custis, the wealthiest widow in the colonies, and her great fortune enabled him to give the eight years, without compensation, to his country, which won the cause of liberty. He wished now only for peace, and the privilege of making things grow from the soil. He was the greatest farmer that America has ever produced. But his country called again, and he sat for four months in Independence Hall and helped to construct the constitution of our country. E next see him riding through floral arches, with young ladies spreading roses in his pathway as he went to be sworn in as our first President. Huis great character gave that stability that was necessary for the launching of the new Ship of State. The English historian, John Richard Green, in commenting on him said, "No nobler figure ever stood in the forefront of a nation's life." He saw the problems of our country with a clarity that in the light of history seems prophetic. In his farewell address he plead with his people to steer clear of the entangling alliances of Europe. In bitter regret we have learned the significance of that wise counsel, which. Applies now with more emphasis than it did at the time of its delivery. AFTER the launching of the ship of state by our revolutionary fathers, there was great admiration for the new venture in popular government. The myth of the divine right of kings was dead, and monarchs began to tumble from their thrones. French officers and soldiers who had fought for the cause of America, went back home to demand freedom for their own people. But there was no such background of stability on the part of their citizenship as the colonies of America had produced, and no George Washington to lead them. They went through a most terrible orgie of blood, and ended up in a dictatorship almost as tyrannical as the one it had supplanted. With the concessions that had to be made to hold all sections of the United States in the compact of the union, it was found that certain compromises agreed to were most vital in their significance, and in the future years were to strike at the very heart of the union itself. God raised up one great character to establish the union, and in the hour of peril He raised up another one to preserve it. BRAHAM LINCOLN was born in a little log house near Hodgensville, Kentucky, in the year 1809. His people were classed among the poor whites of the south. But little is known about his mother as she died young, and at a time when no significance was attached to the name. But his father was a shiftless illiterate man who never aspired to any home better than a log hut. The Lincolns knew bitter poverty as they migrated from one section to another, and carved new farms out of the wilderness. The mother of Abraham Lincoln was buried near Gentryville, Indiana in a coffin made by a whipsaw from the forest trees. In due course of time a stepmother was installed, and this was the greatest streak of luck that ever came to Tom Lineoln. Sally Bush Lincoln brought clothing and bedding and furniture to the forlorn [Tincoln ee ABRAHAM LINCOLN home in the wilderness, but of much greater significance than these she brought a great Christian heart, which went out in solicitude to the motherless children. From the first she developed a sympathy and love for the boy Abraham, and did everything in her power to aid him in his struggle for an education. Schools were of the poorest. Probably six months was the limit of his attendance at school. But he made a great effort at educating himself. He borrowed books from his neighbors, and read and studied by the flickering fire light. HE year Abraham Lincoln came of age, he helped the family in their final move to Coles County, Illinois, and then went out to meet the world on his own initiative. At New Salem he became a clerk in a store, the postmaster, and later the county surveyor. He gained the admiration of the younger set by defeating Jack Armstrong, a noted wrestler in a bout on the village green. He was generous and just and kind to everybody, and he soon hecame a great favorite. There was a love affair between him and a fine young lady by the name of Ann Rutledge, and the untimely death of Ann almost unhinged his reason. He was elected to the State Legislature a number of times in succession, during which time he studied law, and in due course of time he became one of the leading attorneys of the state, with his headquarters at Springfield. He married an aristocratic young lady by the name of Mary Todd from the bluegrass region of Kentucky. Much has been said about this unusual match, but after years of study from authentic histories, and interviews with prominent people in southern Illinois who were intimately acquainted with the Lincolns, I arrived at the conclusion that Mary Todd made Abraham Lincoln President, and that she was quite as providential as he was. A chronic brain disease which resulted in insanity even before her husband's martyrdom gave the public the wrong impression of her. Slavery had been in existence in America from the days of the Jamestown colony, but since the invention of the cotton gin, the plantations of the south, and the negroes who worked them had become very valuable. Four millions of black people were held to involuntary service. The slave power of the south assumed great proportions. It dominated the government, electing its presidents, and controlling its legislative and judicial departments. It represented billions of dollars of money value, and was striving in every conceivable way to extend its borders, so that it could maintain its 74 RELIED SOCIETY MAGAZINI: TWO OF AMERICA'S GREATEST MEN 75 supremacy. Great iniquity developed in it, and it became very revolting to all those who were not personally and financially interested in it. In the providences of God the great Mississippi valley was-opened up for settlement. This is the finest block of high class agricultural land on the globe. Millions of people flocked in there, and made new homes. It was here that America found its conscience, and Abraham Lincoln made vocal that awakening. N 1858 he was pitted against Douglas for the United States senate. _They fought out the issues of the campaign in a series of joint debates, which attracted the 'attention of the civilized world. Lincoln was defeated, but he drew out from Douglas statements which were to come back and defeat him two years later when the presidency was the prize sought for. When Lincoln was elected President there were nearly twice as many votes against him as for him, but they were divided: among Douglas and Breckenridge and Bell, and so they neutralized one another. It seemed a strange experiment for our country to pick this country lawyer up from the circuit of southern IIlinois and put him at the helm of the ship of state when she was on the breakers. But in due course of time the American people discovered that a master hand was at the wheel. Secession' had been a longdrawn threat, but now it became an actual fact, with the powerful south all in deadly revolt against the government. Great powers over the water that had watched with ever increasing jealousy this rising power of the new world, were now jubilant with the thought that the United States was going to pieces. Problems of external and internal diplomacy were most perplexing and had to be handled with the greatest of delicacy. Firmness and determination were most urgently needed. The new president was found to possess just those qualities which were necessary to handle the situation. When you weigh him up against any and all of the aspirants for the presidency at that time there was not one of them that came anywhere near to his class. It was not the whim of any political clique, it was not the caprice of a minority of the electorate, it was God who called Abraham Lincoln, and placed him at the helm of the Ship of State at that critical hour to do a work that no other man of his generation could have done. At the very moment of the acme of his power he was struck down by the bullet of an assassin, and his precious blood was consecrated to the cause of our great country, to cement all its parts together we hope for all the years to come. HAT a heritage is the memory of these two great men! One thristened in silken robes and reared in the lap of luxury; the other recruited from the ranks of poverty and toil and humiliation. And yet they were equally patriotic, equally firm, equally unselfish, equally honest, equally courageous. It was said of Washington that he was "Best among the great and greatest among the good," and John Hay, the private secretary and most intimate friend of Lincoln, said that with all his foibles he believed he was the greatest character since Jesus Christ.