A Thanksgiving Radio Message By Sinah B. Reid THANKSGIVING Day is drawing near. It is natural that our thoughts revert to 1620, when the Pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock. After they had sown and garnered a fruitful harvest they met together and gave thanks to God for His blessings to them; for the bounties of the earth, of the forest and of the streams. The last Thursday in November has been designated by our President as an annual holiday for the people to meet and give thanks and to remind men and women that they are dependent, not alone upon their own strength and power, but to the Supreme God who, in His tender mercy, sends the snow and rain in its season to moisten and nurture the earth and commands the sun to shine and ripen the fruits of the vine and the waving fields of wheat and corn. This inspiration came to me. Why not send a radio message to the many gifted poets and authors who have passed on but have left to us such a rich legacy?not in silver or gold, but in sublime thoughts and choice words which are "'sweet tones of the heart." Let us talk to Nathaniel Hawthorne, as he was one of the first descendants of those illustrious Pilgrims to climb the ladder of literary fame. The resourceful teacher may adapt her lesson to the time when it is given or may introduce some delightful innovation to take her class back over many lessons. Sister Reid of the 16th Ward of Salt Lake Stake combined such a backward glance with the spirit of Thanksgiving Day, in the following radio talk. Mr. Hawthorne, we are sending you a Thanksgiving greeting. Please accept our gratitude for the rich legacy you left us and generations yet unborn. The knowledge that revenge withers all it breathes upon: that the sinner is not lost, but that through repentance and goodly deeds becomes glorified, as in the character of the repentant Esther. Give greetings to Mr. Emerson, who left us a task to perform, to unlock the caskets and speak to the many friends in libraries "who are imprisoned in leather and paper boxes and who have been waiting many, many years?two, ten and twenty centuries. They are eager to give us a sign and unbosom themselves, but it is the law they cannot speak until spoken to." Tell him we have discharged the duties, turned back the covers and are making friends of the characters enclosed therein. In your visits to and fro you have surely met William Shakespeare, for "intelligence seeks intelligence." Inform him that as the centuries pass, his literary star shines more resplendent. King Lear has never been approached, while Portia stands alone as an example of womanly beauty and wifely devotion. The library doors are open and his characters are speaking to the world. In company with him you will find Tennyson and Wordsworth, who brought solace to our hearts and made happier the days of our setting sun. Tennyson made the end of our earthly journey more clear by his "Crossing the Bar," "for though from out the bourne of time and 104 place, the flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face when I have crossed the bar." Wordsworth completed our ancestral chain. ''Not in entire forgetfulness, not in utter nakedness, but trailing clouds of glory do we come from God, who is our home." If it so be that in boundless space there shall be Scottish clans, just carry a message to Sir Walter Scott. The rich pageantry he left behind has enabled us in fancy to visit his native heath, Scotland; to feast upon the grandeur of her forests, lakes and streams; to scent the fragrance of her violets and sense the mysticism of her wishing well and listen in awe to the voice of God as He speaks in the "thunder and the lightning." In communion with Scott you will find Robert Burns. We bless his name for the gifts he left: "An honest man is the noblest work of God." A divine light is shed upon the family group as, with seraphic fire, he reads again to us the words of him who was upon the Isle of Patmos cast. Among your own Pilgrim group, give greetings to Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. The music of his Hiawatha and Git-che-gu-ma?Oh, how it has enriched our children's lives. And we, while listening to their childish recitals of Na-ko-mis, have supped the sweets of Indian lore. We understood the whispering of the winds through the forests, listened to music of the falls of Minnetonka and sensed the legend of the waving corn fields, while his Evangeline RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and Gabriel are as a sweet benediction. Today we were with Whittier, shaking hands anew with friends in "Snowbound." No shut in walls are drear, nor ice nor snow drifts deep, with thoughts sublime, like those he left behind, a priceless heritage for us to keep. He was as humble and as pure as the snow he immortalized. Oh, there are so many we would send a message to, but radio time is limited. But one we must remember for while he tarried here on earth he made us all so happy. Tell him that the old Mississippi just keeps rolling and rolling along? And as time passes on at a rapid pace, the people love him more, regardless of their color or race. When the moon is high and the river low and the tugboats are tossing to and fro, above the steamboat's whistle and the negro mirth within, is the rhythm of the river, Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn. With him you'll meet Bret Harte, who is likely aware of the fact that man has become very clever since he left us. So much so that. He sails the sky and speeds over the ground. The high Sierras are a playground the year round. Many of us have visited Poker Flat. While viewing the scene, we thought of him who touched the human chords of charity, while he so vividly portrayed the weaknesses of the flesh and the bigotry of man. My radio time has come to a close, so good bye, Mr. Hawthorne, and a pleasant Thanksgiving to you.