Gaily We Do Our Work By Virginia B. Jacobsen O you ever hear such wails as D these? "Mother, wash the dishes. Night." "T always get the hardest jobs. It just isn't fair!" "Make him help me, Mother, he never does anything." There is an old saying, "There is a remedy for everything under the sun." This home malady is no exception. The plan suggested here has been tried out and has proved successful. It is very simple and well Worth trying. This is the way we changed black looks, tears, and grumbling, to smiles and singing in our home. We divided the household tasks, which were expected of the children, into equal groups, and listed each group on a neat card. The cards were numbered 1 and 2. (There are only two children old enough to participate in this plan in our home.) it's her turn to I did them last (Front of card No. 1) Clean up my own room. Dust the front room. Sweep the front porch. Wipe the supper dishes. PON (Front of card No. 2) Clean up my own room. Clean up the bath room. Dust the dining room. Sweep the back porch. PONS The back of each card is a score card for each child. It can be ruled to look like this: Jane S.|M.| T.| W.| T.| F.|S. | Job 1 2 | | 3 | 4 | | | Nancy | S.| M.| T.| W.| T.| FI S. Job_| | 1 | 2 |. Al | 3 | | | 4 | | | Jane takes card No. 1 for a week, and Nancy takes card No. 2. As each task is completed each day, Nancy checks it off on the back of her card, and Jane does the same on her card, as she completes her tasks. Of course, each child should be encouraged to try for a perfect record the first week. The next week the cards are exchanged, and then each child is trying to make as good a record as was made on the card the previous week. The list of tasks will largely depend upon the season. During the school year children cannot do as much in the morning as they can in the summer. It is wise to divide the work so that not too much is expected at one time. It is surprising how much little hands can do to help Mother and still not be over worked. If managed in the right way, work is real fun. 106 This plan can be carried a little farther, if the mother is very conscientious. After each task is completed, inspect the job and award the worker with: 1 point (on the card) if the task is poorly done.. 2 points if done fairly well. 3 points if done exceptionally well. At the end of the week, add up the score each child has made, and award the one with the highest score with some little consideration. If you give your children a regular weekly allowance, a little extra could be given to the one making the highest score. This is a decided encouragement toward doing their best. Of course, it requires absolute honesty and good judgment on the part of the mother. There are a few things mothers must remember in putting such a system to work. 1. Don't expect a child to do impossible things. Make the array of jobs within the ability of the children. 2. Take time to teach them to do each job thoroughly and in the right way. They will take pride in work well done. 3. Don't nag or scold about doing the work, or all the joy and fun will be taken out of the plan, and then it will not work. 4. Let the children feel that they are sharing in the responsibility of the home. Children thrive on moderate responsibility, and are made dependable by being trusted. 5. Help each child to find joy in what he does. Let them feel that this is sort of a game. There is no reason why we should not have fun in doing the menial tasks of life. By all means, do not let them feel or know that you are using this plan to keep them from quarreling or to get them to do something.  . If Nancy takes longer to do her work than Jane takes, let her take longer. We are not all made in the same pattern, nor can we all move at the same rate of speed. MENTIONING the weekly allowance brings up another important point. Do you give your children a small weekly allowance? It is a splendid way to make children feel a responsibility in helping in the home. Often a weekly allowance, dependent upon performance of certain regular jobs in the home, is all that is necessary to stop bickering and fussing over doing little tasks. An allowance, small though it may be, gives a child a feeling of wholesome responsibility. As a parent, it is your duty to help your children learn to bear responsibility while they are young, if you would make worthy citizens of them. Are you one of those parents who take the attitude that your children should help in the home to help pay for their food and clothes? Perhaps you are right, but child nature does not reason that way. "Dad gets paid for what he does, so why shouldn't I?" They may not say it in so many words, but compensate a lazy child and see how readily he responds to responsibility. Let me stress, it is not the amount of the allowance which counts?it is the feeling that he has earned it himself. In fact, it is wise not to make the allowance too large at first, or the demand will be greater than the supply as the age of the child increases. One family with two little girls of five and seven, and a baby boy of three carries this plan out beautifully. The girls have definite daily jobs to do. On Saturday night, Daddy makes quite an affair of giving them their weekly allowance, if they GAILY WE DO OUR WORK have been faithful in performing these tasks all week. The older one receives ten cents, the younger one five cents, and little brother receives a shiny penny for having run errands around the house, and for learning to dress himself. Again I say: It isn't the amount of money which counts?it is the glorious feeling that they have honestly earned something which really belongs to them. These children in this family practically never ask for money to buy candy or such things. They always 107 their personal drawer; they have earned it, and they feel a decided responsibility in spending it wisely. Parents should teach their children, early in life, that Dad's pocket, and Mother's purse are not veritable Aladdin's lamps?that money only comes as a compensation for honest work and effort. Children who learn to take their share of responsibility, and who learn how to earn money and spend it wisely will seldom go far wrong. The place to get their first experience in both these lessons is in the home.