NO TIME FOR BITTER THOUGHTS By Josephine Gardner Moench I envied my close neighbor The time she had to spare For parties, concerts, bridge and golf, Gowned always with such care. But when I called one afternoon, I found her quite upset By a fancied slight from a husband true, And a tilt with her social set. I breathed a prayer of thankfulness That in my crowded days, There is no time for bitter thoughts, No time for petty frays. The house to clean?the meals prepare? A dress to make for Sue? I can not brood over Nan's retort Nor Paul's jest, misconstrue. My spare thoughts must be on my books To make my lesson sure For the one luxury I grant myself A class in literature. Relief Society Conference (Concluded) Tue LIBRARY MABEL S. NOKES President Boise Stake Relief Society MY dear fellow workers: The Relief Society Library is a subject in which every Stake Board is interested. I do not believe that interest is enough, we must be so converted to it, so converted to the use that we can make of a library, that we can convince our Wards that their Relief Society library will have a definite, vital place in their communities. Because our Wards and Stakes are so different in size and population, _we will have to study carefully and prayerfully to find the kind of library that will best suit our needs. I like the thought of Ward libraries. It seems to me that regardless of the size of Stake or Ward, the Ward library will better fill that ideal of a Relief Society library that Sister Jennie B. Knight gave us about eighteen months ago. "The best reading for the most people at the least cost." There are just a few simple rules that have proved to be good. By following them one Stake has established libraries in the great majority of its Wards. To stimulate interest we had a little contest and in a short given time these wards were to assemble their libraries and place them on exhibition. To the ward having the best library in the judgment of the judges, who were in no way biased, the stake board gave a book. We followed very simple rules. We must have a Librarian, someone who knows and understands books, who loves books and can teach others to love them. If possible she should be a woman who has leisure time, and will accept the calling as a mission, having definite aims in view. We must have a place to keep our books, preferably a cupboard with glass doors, where our books can be seen, but I think we should have the doors locked when the librarian is not present. You know books are like small boys, they are apt to turn up missing just when we want them most. A card index system of filing the books and names of the borrowers should be used. A small fine could be charged for overdue books, and that added to the library fund. Books cost money, and not every Relief Society treasury can buy a lot of books, but there isn't a Ward in the Church that doesn't have the nucleus of a fine library in the text books they have bought from year to year, and if we approach people in the right way they will give a book ??new books, or old books in good condition. We should have at least one set of the standard books of the Church, Church reference books and as many of the biographies of our early men and women. As possible. Their lives are examples of courage and faith that are inspiring to read about. Bound copies of our Magazine are suggested. I suppose you have met the question, "What about fiction? May we put fiction in our libraries?" I say yes, but let us hold to as high a standard as possible. In judging fiction let us not read a book that does not leave us with a finer faith in 116 humanity, and a higher ideal of life. People who have enforced leisure time perhaps may get a great deal of courage just through reading for entertainment. Everyone of you have cupboards of books, but can we call cupboards of books libraries?the ideal Relief Society library? I do not think so. We must have these books read and circulated every one or two weeks in order to call it a library, and here is where the work of the Librarian begins. Can we make our women library-conscious as we are making them Magazine conscious? Can we teach them to form the habit of taking home a book every week? If we can, we have made a big step towards reaching the family, and Sister Lyman will tell us "that if we can reach the family, we can reach the community." Is not that an ideal worth striving for? These Librarians have missions. It is a new department, and we-must give them all the help possible. Just as surely as we Stake Board members strive with all our heart and soul to give inspiration and help to our' class leaders, we should also give that same help and that same feeling toward our Librarians. Every stake class leader should encourage her ward class leader to help the ward librarian. There are several little things that we could suggest to the Wards that would help them hold their libraries. They might give five minutes a week to the librarian to either give herself or have someone whom she knows is competent, review some book, just enough to give them a taste of it, and make the women curious to finish the book. In our public libraries our books are displayed temptingly. Have your librarians visit the public libraries, encourage them to display the books RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE as alluringly as possible so that people will be tempted to into them and read them. One of the finest things I think we have been able to do for our librarians is to have our State Librarian talk to them. In our July Union Meetings we asked Miss Leila Bedford, the Idaho State Librarian, to talk to our Presidents and Librarians on Library Methods and The Value of Libraries in Rural Communities. She was so pleased and thrilled with our Library program she gave each of the Wards a list of the books in the Idaho State Traveling Library, and offered to send them boxes of from fifty to one hundred books, any choice they might make, to be kept as long as six months, asking only as thanks that our libraries try to interest and distribute the books to their communities. Are we forgetting that sometimes we can interest women in reading through having a magazine exchange in connection with our library? We can reach outside women, and when we once reach them the possibilities are endless. Let us not forget our children in our libraries. Let us remember that we want to guide their reading. Let us have a hand in putting children's books in our libraries, so they can then turn back the pages of history and become acquainted with the lives of great men and women. We can teach them to read, and let us bear this in mind that we want them to make friends of books. Dear Sisters, let us remember that most of the worthwhile things since the world began started as a movement?sometimes very small. Our Library Movement may not be large but let us make it permanent and vital.  EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES LULA Y. SMITH President Cache Stake Relief Society DUCATION in its fullest meaning is the ability to live intelligently; to live intelligently would be fulfilling all the purpose of life. We are educated for good or evil by all we see, hear, feel or do. Education is the ability to make the proper adjustments to all the problems of life. Every person we meet contributes to our education. Our every day contact with others is the most vital influence in our development. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints offers more opportunities for growth and development than is given to any other people in all the world. Among the most favored of these groups are the women of the Relief Society. Woman's responsibility is not alone with the home, but with the whole world which has to do with our children. John Dewey says, "What the best and wisest parent wants for his own child, that must the community want for all its children." Every child is our child. Home should be a shelter not only against the weather, but against all detrimental forces. The greatest monuments ever erected in the world are erected in the homes. The most potent factor in a child's life is an adult's behavior. To the Relief Society has been given the responsibility of education of the women of the Church. The development of the race depends on the development of the women. There is not anything a woman cannot do, no heights to which she cannot attain if she is living up to her privileges in the Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph said, then the angels could not be restrained from being our associates. There is an old Spanish proverb which reads: "He who would bring back the wealth of the Indies must take with him the wealth of the Indies." Relief Society has developed the finest social contacts the world has ever known. We work and play together and the rules of the game are the rules of life. From Goethe's Immortal "Faust" we get this great lesson?Man lives for man and only as he works for his fellowman can he be saved. When you are in the service of your fellowman you are in the service of God. All we send into the lives of others comes back into our own. The scope of Relief Society work is as broad as life itself. Here is developed the well-rounded education of the intellectual, spiritual, social and physical. The spirit is fed through the Theology lessons and Testimony meetings. To know God is life eternal. A fulness of life is promised to those who seek him diligently. The witness of the spirit is that which sustains. The intellect is fed through the Literary lessons. Literature feeds the desire for beauty; it glorifies the commonplace; it helps us to live with other people. A pearl is a pearl only to those who know its value. All great men and women live close to God. Emerson says, "The world is a temple whose walls are covered with emblems, pictures and commandments of the Deity?the poet is the interpreter." Keates says, in his "Ode to a Grecian Urn," "Beauty is truth. Truth beauty: that is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know." "O Lord, open thou our eyes that 118 we may see past the tall buildings of the cities and perceive the souls thereof; widen our horizons; give us largeness of heart that we may see the luminous heights above." The Social Service lessons not only help us to recognize home and community problems, but create the desires to do something about it. It is not enough to stand for the truth but we must carry it forward. It develops ability to render better service in our own environment. Learn how you can best serve, then work. 'The Lord is the best pay-master in all creation. It is not how many languages we can speak, but what we can say in one. It is not how many years we have lived, but how well we have lived them. All the lessons are but steps by which we may develop the power to see beyond the written word to the truth it emphasizes. Knowledge is the ladder by which we climb to heaven. Possibly there is no phase of Relief Society work that offers more opportunity for development than the Relief Society Visiting Teachers. They have the educational value of home contacts, the opportunity to inspire faith, to teach, to give courage, to strengthen the family life, to bind up wounds, to enrich the lives of others. To keep a balance of interests, and the opportunity to serve. Kindness is the power God has given us to unlock the door to those who need His blessing. All the pathways to life eternal are through service. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There is no happiness for anyone today who hasn't a worthy aim or object. Someone has said, "Happiness is great love and much service." If our hearts are full of love and our hands full of service we have solved the riddle of life, for where love is, God is there also. Grace Noel Crowell breathes the spirit of Relief Society work in these few lines: "The day was long, the burden I had borne Seemed heavier than I could longer bear, And then it lifted?but I did not know Someone had knelt in prayer "Had taken me to God that very hour, And asked the easing of the load, and He, In infinite compassion, had stooped down And taken it from me. "We cannot tell how often as we pray For some bewildered one. And distressed, The answer comes?but many times those hearts Find sudden peace and rest. Hurt 'Someone had prayed, and Faith. A reaching hand. Took hold of God, and brought Him down that day! So many, many hearts have need of prayer? Oh. Let us pray." TABERNACLE October 3?2 p.m. Counselor Amy Brown Lyman, Presiding LAURA W. SALZNER Former President Swiss-German Mission Relief Society IN September. 1931, we left our home for the Swiss-German Mission. No doubt there are many of the mothers present whose sons were RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE with us in this far off land. I wish to say that we feel there are no finer, no better young men to be found than those who have labored with us in this mission. We have learned to love them, and to honor the parents of the two hundred and fifty capable, sincere, humble missionaries whom we have labored with. In the Swiss-German mission all of the auxiliaries are organized and doing good work. The Relief Society was organized fifty-three years ago. The first organization was effected in Berne, Switzerland. Two years later an organization was formed in Berlin, Germany. At the present time there are fifty-four Relief Society organizations, with a membership of eleven hundred. Although these members are often separated by many miles, there are one hundred and fifty visiting teachers, who carry the Relief Society message into the homes each month. These organizations are following the lesson course prescribed by the General Boards, and enjoying them, and progress is being made. In each of the fourteen districts, which may be compared to stakes, two conferences are held each year, and it means a saving from a meagre income in order to permit the Saints to attend. In 1933 an important step was taken in the advancement of auxillary organizations when the General Mission Boards were organized, one for each auxiliary organization. This gave local men and women a greater opportunity to be trained and assume responsibility, and to give service. Local district supervisors were also appointed to further effect this organization, and to bring a closer cooperation between the mission and branch societies. Although the members are poor, their hearts are in the work. They 119 are faithful tithe-payers, and loyal in supporting the organizations of the Church. About five years ago the members were asked to pay Annual Membership Dues into the Relief Society?one mark, which is about twenty-five cents in our money. They responded so well to this request that we have now sufficient funds sent in each year to pay all the mission office expenses of the Relief Society, the traveling expenses of the district supervisors, and the traveling expenses of the Mission Board Member who attends the conference. We are most grateful for this response, for we know what a sacrifice it is for these sisters, but they justify all the blessings that come to those who are willing to sacrifice and love the Gospel. Two years ago the "Singing Mothers" were organized throughout the mission, and each district conference. Last Spring these groups furnished the singing for one session of the conferences. They are a music-loving people, and love to sing their beautiful folk songs and the Songs of Zion in their homes and meetings. In order to keep in closer touch with the branch organizations, a monthly report is sent into the mission office. These are compiled into a mission report, and a copy is sent to the district supervisors. On account of. The expense of translating and printing the very fine handbooks which are sent out by the different auxiliary boards of the Church, the organizations have been somewhat handicapped. This difficulty is, however, being gradually overcome. Some of these books are already in the hands of the workers, and others, and the Relief Society handbook is now being translated for their use. These instructions do much to standardize the 120 work and solve many of the organization problems. During the last few years, when the people in Switzerland have been more prosperous than those in Germany, the Relief Societies have gathered new and used clothing, and have sent from thirty to fifty large packages each year into the branches in Germany. This work is under the supervision of the Mission Board, and is distributed to the needy members of the Church in Germany. Much of this clothing is contributed by non-members who have learned of the charitable work of the Relief Society organization, and send their contributions in unsolicited. Although the majority of the women must work and help earn the living, as well as take care of their homes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and family, they find time to do beautiful handwork for their bazaars, which are held each year for the purpose of gathering funds and furthering the work of the organization. The members of the Swiss-German Mission felt highly honored. And greatly appreciated the visit of our dear President, Sister Robison. In that far off land they often feel isolated from the body of the Church 'and this personal contact with one of our leaders brought a closer bond of unity and understanding between them. I bring you greetings from the sisters of the Swiss-German Mission, for they feel you are interested in them, and they are interested in you. GENEVE J. DALTON Former President South African Mission Relief Society I WOULD like to extend to President Robison, her counselors and members of the General Board, together with all the members of the Relief Society here, the greetings and love from all the Relief Society sisters in South Africa. They are indeed interested in the work here, and they look to the sisters of Utah for their inspiration, and, of course, for their guidance in the work. They have just the same desires, I believe, that all Relief Society sisters throughout the world have, to know the Gospel, to live it and to be good Relief Society members. They feel the influence of the wonderful organization, and what it does for women. I learned to love the Relief Society work, and I learned to love the women of the South African Mission, because Relief Society work teaches us to understand women, to feel for them, and inspires the desire to help them. When I left the South African Mission there were sixteen organizations. Some of them very very small, and some of them a good size. The Relief Society has not been organized for so many years, it is really in its infancy there, but it is growing, and while I was there we were able to increase the membership about 200%. We were grateful for this, and would have liked every woman of the Church to be a member of Relief Society. I am sure this is going to come. The Union of South Africa is a very big country; covering as much territory as the United States, so you will know that when we say the members are scattered, we do not mean by a few miles, but by a vast distance, so it was difficult to get the members of the Relief Society together. Some members were on farms, great distances from the cities, but we tried in various ways RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE to reach these people and to make them members of the organization. We were able, during the six years, to hold two Relief Society conventions in the mission, though it was a difficult problem to get women to come so far, and to raise the money to bring them. I am sure that the two conventions we held with representatives from all districts in South Africa, helped the Relief Society work there. I know that it increased the women's knowledge, and they were more capable of carrying the Relief Society work on. There are many districts where we did not even have missionaries to help the sisters, and so it was difficult for new people, who had never done work in the Relief Society before, to get on to this work. The Relief Society Mission President, of course, is unable to visit them very often, perhaps once a year at the most. We have some small organizations with perhaps only two or three members, including the Relief Society President, a First and Second Counselor, and the Second Counselor acts as the secretary. I do not believe there could be two organizations in all the Church that do more effective and efficient Relief Society work than these two little organizations, one of three members and one of four. Where we found just one woman alone, we tried to make her a member of the Relief Society through an inactive non-attendance roll. These sisters would study and sew and make things to send to the different bazaars in the mission to help raise funds for charity. Many of these women who were out alone were able to do that, and we often received parcels from them for our bazaars. Our special activities there were 121 just about the same as we have here for raising our funds. We hold bazaars and concerts. We try everything because we have to scheme and contrive to make money. I have great hopes for the Relief Society in South Africa. I know of the hospitality and love of the women there. There are great possibilities for it. We have many friends. In my travels home, and we went to a great many countries, I could not help but think of the difference in the women of the nations. When we think of the natives of Africa and the nude women, and then we think of the veiled women of India and Turkey, and the women of China, with their bound feet, we cannot help but think of the blessing the Relief Society would be to these women. They are now, of course, overcoming the traditions that have guided them for hundreds and hundreds of years, but I know that the Relief Society is just the organization that will help women and that will teach them and educate them to overcome these things that bind them down. In Palestine and Syria we see the woman sitting in the door of her mud hut, and her children about her in tatters and rags and dirt, and we wonder how people can exist like that and get happiness out of life. Of course they look to the god whom they worship, and they have that instinct that every woman has in the world, to love her children, and do for them, and I suppose that this is the happiness these oriental women get out of life. But, I can only feel proud that I am a member of the Relief Society, and that I have been taught the Gospel of Jesus Christ.  HAZEL B. TINGEY Former President of the Australian Mission Relief Society BRING to you, my dear brethren and sisters, greetings from the far off land of Australia, nine or ten thousand miles away. I wish to extend my appreciation for the Australian saints. I think nowhere in the whole world could we find people who are more hospitable. I think I never had the privilege of entering any home that I was not made perfectly welcome, whether they were members of the Church or not. They seem to have the desire to welcome and" honor their guests, and do all in their power to make them feel at home and at ease. I, too, think we have some of the finest young men in all the Church in the Australian Mission. The cooperation, love, unity and assistance that they gave my husband and myself was remarkable. When you leave the Stakes of Zion, and go out into the world, you begin to treasure the teachings of our Church. When we meet outside people, perhaps who have not had the opportunity of hearing the Gospel message, it makes us realize and see how greatly blessed we are. In Australia we have a territory about the same as the United States. From our most northeastern branch to our western branch we cover a distance of about 4,500 miles, so you can imagine the distance between branches. We have seven million people in Australia, but we have not a very large membership in Relief Society, but a very efficient organization. We have women who are certainly converted to this great work, who are carrying on all the lessons as outline in our Magazine. We have some Relief Society Presidents there who I am sure cannot be surpassed, and they know what the responsibility of the office and calling is. We are striving diligently to spread the work, to make it grow slowly but surely, and to enlighten the other sisters regarding its beauty. We have traveled about 200,000 miles over land and water, that would be enough to go around the earth perhaps about eight times, and never once has there been any sign of an accident. We have been remarkably blessed, and I cannot, if | live many many years, repay my Heavenly Father for His mercy and blessings unto us. We have found, in the mission field, the real joy of service. We have found the life of real happiness. And I am sure that not only people who have gone to the Australian. Swiss-German, South African Missions, but all missionaries the world over, and all we brothers and sisters who are engaged in this mighty work here at home, have found there is no greater way to obtain happiness than in service to our fellow brothers and sisters. Surely the great Master set the example, and He told us that no greater joy could be found than in that way. In the teachings of the Gospel of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the principles that are held therein, we find the highest standards and ideals of life.