The End What Knowledge is of Most Worth? By Eleanor S. Muir HE most precious thing in life is our knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness, and the wisdom to apply that knowledge to our individual lives. However, by saying a knowledge of the everlasting Gospel is the knowledge of most worth, does not mean that we believe in seeking it alone to the exclusion of all other forms and varieties of knowledge. On the contrary, the Church encourages us to seek after all worthy intellectual development.. Under the 'light of what we have learned the Gospel will bear close examination of its doctrines. And the more highly trained we become, the more we will appreciate its depth, beauty and meaning and the reason why it includes all truth. The most vital part of our being is the eternal spirit. Therefore, spiritual development is the most important phase of our process of growth, and this enlightenment comes only through a knowledge of spiritual things. A man is not truly educated if he lacks spiritual knowledge. Religious education is not something added to education, nor something apart from it, it is a definite quality of education. So it is a knowledge of the Gospel that provides us this important portion of our development. MAN lives in an atmosphere of materialism. So great is the attraction of this glamorous civilization that little real thinking is done face to face with great spiritual issues. Many have so limited their capacities for experience on the higher levels that they are unable to discern the things of God. "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul. Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul." Mark 8:36-37. Only the spiritually alive are aware of Him in whom we all live and have our being. A man becomes a great musician, artist, or scientist only as he cultivates his capacities for experience in these things. Likewise in the matter of religious and spiritual knowledge. It comes to people who have developed their capacities for these things. Spiritual experience cannot be bought and it has no equivalent. It is won as a prize for moral achievement. The Kingdom of Heaven is within us, the pure in heart can see God; that is a form of experience which riches or material power do not have access to. 45 INASMUCH as man lives in a world of material things it is impossible, even if it were desirable, for him to withdraw his whole attention from them. Is it not experience of a material environment for which we came here? How wonderful it is to have a knowledge which recognizes not only the spiritual side of life, but also the temporal side. From the earliest history of the Church, the temporal welfare of its people have been closely connected with their spiritual development. Such characteristics as the Word of Wisdom, our non-professional Priesthood and tithing, bear record of this connection. Our wonderful missionary system necessitates great sacrifice on the 102 part of the missionary and the supporting home, a sacrifice that could only be made through a complete and sympathetic understanding of the restored Gospel. That the organization abounds in facilities to reach man in every walk of life, to develop him spiritually, intellectually, morally and physically is unquestioned. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE It is obvious that our superior knowledge of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, together with our Church system, creates for us the highest, most expansive ground upon which to intensify our spiritual personalities and live more abundantly and gain exaltation. It is truly the knowledge of most worth. Seated in center, President Laura W. Salzner, standing back of her are her counselors and secretary, at her right Sister Max Zimmer, President Y. W. M. I. A. With her counselors and secretary. At Sister Salzner's left is Helen Salzner, President Primary and her counselors and secretary.