PROSE AND POETRY By Della Adams Leitner Washing the dishes and making the beds And cooking the meals each day; Dusting and darning and baking the bread, And putting the clothes away; The endless daily tasks become So tiresome till it seems That mothers know but prose in life, Their poetry but dreams. But oh, the rhythm of pattering feet, The meter of laughter and song, The lilt of child voices in glad delight Bearing love's theme along. And a measured strain creeps into the day Lifting the load of care, Transforming its prose to a poem of joy A lyric of love and prayer. BATTLING STILL By Sara Lyman O the weary, weary waiting For the thing that lies ahead, I am weary of the food I eat And weary of the bed. I am weary of the suffering And weary of the pain, And ever weary wondering When I'll be well again. Then shall I quit the battle I've been fighting all this time, Say the path's too steep before climb That I cannot make the climb? No. For all this weary waiting There is surely some reward, Something safe and sweet and certain, Something I can work toward. For we all must taste the bitter That we might enjoy the sweet. O Lord give strength and courage That I shan't admit defeat. Notes to the Field Relief Society and Missionary Work NASMUCH as the question has been brought into the office from a number of Stakes, we are giving this statement in reference to the matter of the Relief Society and the Missionary work. As Latter-day Saints, there is perhaps no movement dearer to us than that of the missionary work, and we are very anxious, all of us, to do our part in aiding this great cause. In the Church set-up each organization has its definite work to do, and that should be the first consideration. The Missionary movement is an activity of the Priesthood, and what Relief Society women do to further this should be done as members of the Ward. The responsibility of keeping missionaries in the field does not rest with the Relief Society as an organization. During the present emergencies, perhaps more than at any other time, the Relief Society should give its attention to its welfare and relief program. The feeling of the General Board and Presidency in the matter is that if our organizations keep up this work in answer to the demands of the present time, it will be all they are able to accomplish. We urge our women to do their full share in all the Church work, and as we have indicated, we hope they will contribute to the missionary fund, but they do this as individual members of the Church. We do not favor activity for this work within the organization. Care of Records: IN organization is judged by the records it keeps. The Relief Society is justly proud of the fine standards which are set through the careful preparation of its record books. However, reports have come to us form various quarters that due care has not been exercised in collecting and keeping the records of the Relief Society in safe places. This grave responsibility rests with the President and Secretary. We think this is a good time to call to the attention of the Stakes and Wards that these records are of immense value, and suggest that the secretaries take steps to collect all material that is available and see that there is some definite place where these valuable books may be kept with safety for the organization. Make a special effort to get everything of the past that is available, and include it in the records of the Stakes. New Stake Organization: "THE year 1935 was remarkable for many things, but especially for the growth of the Wards and Stakes of our Church. There were many reorganizations and the creation of a number of new stakes. May we take this opportunity of expressing our deep gratitude to all our fine Presidents for the wonderful work they have done, and welcome the new ones to the group. At October conference the record of the new stakes and reorganizations was read, but since that time we have to note the arrival of a new Stake? Bonneville?taken from the Liberty Stake. Sister Cornelia S. Lund succeeds Sister Amy P. Romney as President of the Liberty Stake, and 128 Sister Pearl A. Daynes is President of the youngest of our Stakes? Bonneville. All good wishes to them. Music: WE are almost at the threshold of our Anniversary. Choristers and Organists, have you selected your music for this particular day? Would it not be an appropriate time to sing, as a Special number, the song which the Prophet Joseph Smith loved so well?''A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief?" The trio arrangement can be obtained for ten cents per copy at the Beesley Music Company, 61 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. The March Theology Lesson: "THE impressive theology lesson - for March relates the introduction into the Church of the temple endowment and baptism for the dead. The fact is emphasized and most significant that these holy ordinances may only be administered in places specially built or chosen for the purpose. Such places become holy shrines. The specific revelations concerning this matter explains the fact to many questioning minds of the great urge the saints felt to complete the Nauvoo temple even after the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and amid such poverty and persecution. _ Social Service Lesson: NATION is what its homes are." From the home the child derives his basic ideas of obedience, of citizenship, of respect for authority, his spiritual and religious ideals, and even his ideas of speech. Upon the integrity of the home rests the future promises of life itself. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Read Proverbs 31:27-28. Work and Business: HE condition of floors makes or mars the appearance of every home. In "Handicraft for Every Woman," pages 27-30, much valuable information can be found as to ways and means of improving floors. On page 119, article 7, the method used for filling joinings of sealex is given. This same method can be used for patching worn places in linoleum so the patch is scarcely noticeable. O increase our appreciation of the truly artistic, and our power to translate it into our daily life, is one of the objectives of our new book Handicraft for Every Woman. By its use in our Work meetings the standard of beauty in the home will be raised throughout our Church. Literary Department: WHEN does a book really become a friend? During this month make a friend of at least one character from a great book. A delightful list of those it would be good to meet is found on page 582 of the September Magazine. At the end of the month tell what this friendship has done for you. Teacher's Topic: EACH night in February as you prepare for slumber check on your day's conduct. Have you lost control or have you turned away your wrath with a soft answer? Have you stilled your child's rising anger by answering him mildly and softly? Discuss and memorize Browning's lines found on page 580 of the September Magazine.