God's Hand Doth Guide By Mary P. Thorley COMPANY of exiles, men and women of culture and refinement, outcasts from civilization, forced to leave their garden spots, their orchards, public halls, their lovely homes, some of which were already in flames, and their magnificent Temple, were fleeing from beautiful Nauvoo, taking with them what little of their substance could be packed into two or three wagons, fleeing from hostile mobs, journeying desert ward to seek a haven of rest among the more tender hearted savages of the wilderness In this company were Edward Gale, his frail young wife, Margaret and Ralph, their two year old son. Bitter cold weather ensued, several members of the company lay sick, some dying from exposure and lack of care, but even this pitiable condition did not move the hearts of the cruel mobs of Illinois as they forced the exiles across the Mississippi River. A temporary camp was made that cold February night and under the rude shelter of a hut, while cutting winds blew and snow fell, Ruth Gale was born. After a few days of rest and the toilsome journey was resumed. Miles and miles they trod, until days lengthened into weeks and weeks into months. They toiled on, weary and footsore, scantily clothed, oftentimes hungry, they climbed mountains, waded streams, while at times they were discouraged and despondent, they were constantly cheered and strengthened by their noble leader. President Brigham Young asked William Clayton to write something that would help and encourage them. "Come, Come Ye Saints" was written and gave them hope and renewed faith; a hymn that was and ever will be a source of inspiration and comfort to its people. Salt Lake Valley was reached, the place where President Young had gazed in silence for a few moments and then exclaimed, "This is the Place." Still rich in their faith in God, finding solace in prayer, singing songs of praise to their Creator, they had reached the promised land, a resting place for their weary feet, where they could fulfill the predictions of the Prophet Joseph Smith and become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. FIGHTEEN years had gone by; the little city of Beverly, tucked away in the heart of the hills, with its beautiful homes, its public buildings, its broad streets, which had been laid out by President Brigham Young, and the promise given its settlers that if they would keep the Sabbath day holy, pay their tithes and offerings, be prayerful, be thrifty and helpful to each other, and keep God's commandments at all times, the desert would in time blossom as the rose. Tonight the little city was a garden. It's towering trees, its lawns and lovely flowers made it in the gathering twilight beautiful to behold and the abode of peace. The Gale home was a happy place, its four occupants were bound by ties of love and service. Ruth was beautiful, talented, good, the queen of the little realm in which she lived, the pride of her loving parents and brother and a favorite with all who knew her. Kissing her lovingly her GOD'S HAND DOTH GUIDE father repeatedly said, "Our ray of sunshine, sent to make our home a paradise." The Gospel had been taught and lived in the Gale home in all its truth and beauty and many, many evenings the young people of the town gathered there to listen to pioneer stories, sing songs and hymns and enjoy its spiritual atmosphere. Evening time brought John Benton, Ruth's lover, tall, manly, clean; the type of man the world needs. John was twenty years of age, stalwart and dependable, fatherless since he was fourteen, but with the help of his frail, little mother he had completed high school and for the present given up his dream of College that he might take care of the farm. There was a happy evening in that dear old home just as many previous ones had been. Ruth and John had been sweethearts since the time they were kiddies in grade school and Ruth had always claimed him as her lover. He had asked her to be his wife and even though she had dreamed many times of their future together, at present she was undecided. Frequently of late she had met Roy Montaine, a New Yorker, he told her of the wonders of that big city, of her wasted life in such a small town, of her beauty'' and what she might accomplish with her talents were she to abandon all this. Ruth loved the little city and the people in it, and every one loved her. She loved her humble home where she had spent so many happy hours: she loved her parents who had sacrificed so much for her but the picture painted by Roy Montaine was beautiful and she longed for new experiences. For the thrills, the bright lights of New York could give. Montaine called at her home a number of times; her parents were anxious about her. There was a 109 sad look on John Benton's face when she told him how dearly she loved him but asked him to wait until she was more sure of her decision. The evening twilight was settling over Beverly hills when Roy Montaine called to take Ruth for a drive, she was infatuated, thrilled with his words of love as she looked into his handsome yet cynical face. Clasping her in his arms he told her she belonged to him and begged her to go with him. In the thrill of his. Passionate kisses she wrote a note to her parents, her brother and John. '"Forgive me, dear ones, I'm going to marry Roy Montaine. I know I will be happy, Ruth." Then she was gone. There was a saddened home and heavy hearts when she failed to return. HE news that Ruth had gone spread like wild fire and brought sorrow and heartache to every home in Beverly. "Why had it happened! How could Ruth do it, surrounded as she was by such love and devotion? Would she be happy? A hundred other questions were asked as families gathered that evening around their hearthstones. Baby lips lisped her name in prayer and in every home in that little village in evening devotion they prayed that God would guard her. Father and mother Gale, bowed and heart-broken could only clasp each others hands and murmur a silent prayer. Ralph sobbed as if his young heart would break. John Benton aged years during that first long night after the news came to him. Early next morning Bishop Rae called at his home. Clasping John's hand and that of his mother he said, "God bless you, my boy, this is a sad blow to all of us. We'd like you to go into the mission field, we'll see that this precious 110 mother is well taken care of." The plan was discussed as they sat around the breakfast table and in one week John was on the way to the North Eastern States mission. THE miles sped by while Montaine continued to tell Ruth of his love; after an all night drive she rested at a hotel while Montaine attended to some business affair. Returning with three strangers a hurried marriage ceremony was performed and in one short week Ruth found herself in gay New York. The apartment to which she was taken was elaborate; she was showered with beautiful gowns and jewels and her every wish was granted. Their evenings were spent at theaters and concert halls; there was so much to see, so much that was strange and wonderful and Ruth, thrilled with it all, had scarcely time to think of the old home and of John. Her first evening spent at a Cabaret, where she met a number of Montaine's friends, revealed a new phase of life; there was music and wine, women reeled from its influence and Ruth found herself an alien to these surroundings. Montaine was sullen when she refused to mix with the crowd and during the drive home neither had much to say. From this time on Montaine was not so attentive. He often telephoned that he was dining down town and Ruth had long days and evenings alone, hours when she had time to think, days and nights when she would have given her life almost to be back in her girlhood home. She tried to write to her loved ones, to tell them of her new life but she could not and night after night she silently sobbed. OUR long months passed by and Ruth realized that she was to become a mother. In her new found RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE joy she told her husband, thinking this news would bridge the gulf that was widening between them. Montaine was furious. He raved as if he were mad and with that cynical smile told Ruth their marriage was a sham, that she was not his wife. Alone she left his apartment, taking with her a small suit case of her simplest clothes. She wandered aimlessly, her brain on fire, not knowing where she was going and not caring. She thought ~of the river where she might end her shame, but the image of the little mother came before her and she heard again the teachings of that sacred home and drew back. Darkness came on as hopelessly she wandered. Through the door of a church came soft strains of music, a sweet voice was singing, "Lead Kindly Light, Amid the encircling gloom, Lead Thou me On, The night is dark and I am far from home. I loved to see and choose my path, but now" with an agonized cry she looked toward Heaven and murmured, ''Lead Thou Me On." Aimlessly, listlessly she wandered until the first, faint streaks of morning appeared in the eastern sky, a dim light in the distance seemed to be beckoning her, almost exhausted she reached the door of a shabby. Little shack, a kindly hand opened the door and Ruth fell fainting into the room. Strong, Irish arms were about the girlish form and she was tenderly lifted to a couch. When consciousness returned Ruth in broken sobs told her story; she had reached a humble shack but it housed a mother heart. Mrs. Maloney had known real sorrow, bereft of her two grown up sons, her baby girl and her husband within the short space of five years. She had for a time thought her grief unbearable but in the pain and suffering GOD'S HAND DOTH GUIDE 111 that seemed to surround her on every corner she had forgotten her own grief in the joy of service to others less fortunate than herself. WHEN Ruth was able she walked for miles, going from door to door asking for work, and finally secured a position in a ribbon department. Days and weeks went by, night after night she sobbed her heart out in prayer to God for forgiveness. She tried to write home to the dear father and mother whose hearts she had so cruelly broken, but her pride refused to let her do it. Several months passed during which time she had become a general favorite with those around her and everyone was eager to bring smiles to her saddened, youthful, face. Then came an evening when the proprietor kindly told her not to come to work again until she was well! Her new friends bade her goodbye with tears in their eyes, some of them with sadder stories than hers. Then followed weeks of anguish and heartache, unable to find work, she was dependent upon the kind hospitality of a stranger. There wasn't fuel to keep them warm; they were often hungry. During nights of bitter anguish Ruth prayed that God would take her life and that of her unborn babe. Mother Maloney's arms stole around Ruth's neck and kissing her tenderly she would say, "Niver mind, darlint, you were Heaven sint to my door and everything will be right by an' by.'' Then came a night of pain and suffering, then weeks of convalescing in which the dear Irish friend shared her meagre store with Ruth; there was a wee squirming little bundle with brown curls and dimpled cheeks, eyes so big and blue that finally brought a smile to Ruth's face as she lovingly cared for her precious son. BEFORE her strength returned she went again in search of work and was repeatedly met with the same answer. Finally she got a position. Then with her arms around Mother Maloney's neck she promised to partly repay her for her many kindnesses. There were happy hours in that humble home as they watched the baby grow and as his chubby little arms were around Ruth's neck and his precious baby face pressed close to hers she prayed that God would guard and keep him. One morning Ruth awakened with a start, baby Jack was croupy; his tiny hands were hot, his lips feverish, but Ruth must go to work or lose her job. What should she do? There was no money to call a doctor, if she failed to appear at the store her pay check stopped. Mrs. Maloney's arms were again around her as she said, "Go, darlint, I'll take care of our baby."' All day Ruth's mind was on "Jack," she was nervous and worried and could hardly wait until closing time. When she reached home there was a marked change in his condition and together she and Mother Maloney worked untiringly to ease the little sufferer. A week of suffering and the tiny baby fingers clasping Ruth's began to relax. The faint little pulse grew weaker. Opening his big, blue eyes, a faint smile on his face, he tried to lisp. "mama" then death claimed him. Ruth sat as if turned to stone. The City officials were notified and strange hands took the little form away. They urged that Ruth be taken to a County hospital but Mrs. Maloney refused to let her go. For days and nights Ruth lay in a wild delirium, calling piteously for mother, daddy, Ralph and John: reaching for her baby, imagining she had him in her arms; crooning a lull- 112 aby; kissing his cheeks then begging that he might live, pleading with God not to take him from her. There were times when Mrs. Maloney thought Ruth's reason had gone entirely. After days of mental anguish she felt exhausted and slept only to awaken to the bitter loneliness of it all, then came tears, that solace of grief. Her benefactress's arms were around her as with awkward tenderness she patted the heaving shoulders so shaken with sobs. There's a wealth of love in some big hearts that have known only the hard things of life and lavishly did Mother Maloney shower that love on Ruth. T was a long time before Ruth again found work; the roses had faded from her cheeks, the lustre from her eyes; there was even in her heart a resentment against her Maker, but time heals all wounds and as she accompanied Mother Maloney on her errands of mercy, sometimes closing the eyes of the dying; crooning a lullaby to a motherless babe, telling stories to hungry, little hearts, carrying sunshine to homes that had known only sorrow, the picture of her own precious mother, so far away, doing like errands would come before Ruth, and she realized fully the meaning of the Savior's words, "He that doeth it unto the least of these my brethren, hath done it unto me" and with her beloved benefactress she found joy and peace in service. UTH spent many happy hours telling Mother Maloney of her home life, of her parents, of Ralph and John; of her religion. She told the story of the Prophet Joseph Smith, how an angel had revealed to him the restored gospel; of his persecution and finally his martyrdom RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and that of his beloved brother Hyrum. She told of the sufferings endured by the early saints: of her own faith in God and her benefactress listened intently, eager always for more. One evening as they were in the busy part of the city. Ruth was attracted by someone singing; she listened a moment then drew her companion to the street corner where Mormon elders were holding a street meeting. As they sang, '"O, Ye Mountains High; We Thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet. And Come, Come Ye Saints," Ruth could hardly stand it; she wanted to sing with them; she wanted to tell them she too, was a member of their church; she wanted to talk to them of HOME, but she could not. With what change she had she purchased a Book of Mormon, then spent happy hours reading its pages to Mother Maloney, while that honest, Irish heart received its wonderful message. Repeatedly they attended. The street meetings. A DREAD epidemic swept the district where Ruth and her benefactress lived and in two short days it looked as if Ruth was to lose her beloved Irish mother. Untiringly she worked over the dear, old form. Trying to relieve the pain and soothe the tired sufferer. The County physician was called, took the weak pulse, left some tablets and promised to return in an hour. On his second visit, he shook his head and said there was nothing more could be done, the patient would only linger for another hour or so." Were Ruth's prayers to go unheeded? Hadn't she yet paid the price for that moment of reckless folly? What would she not have given for her father and Ralph to anoint that aching head and through their prayer of faith relieve that precious GOD'S HAND DOTH GUIDE mother. Dropping on her knees by the bedside, one hand clasping Mother Maloney's, she prayed, "Dear God, please spare her life; how can I live without her?" then in a half whisper she added, "Not my will but Thine be done.'"' An atmosphere of peace seemed to settle in the room, broken only by the labored breathing of the sufferer, then Ruth rising from her knees whispered something to the kind neighbor who kept watch with her and stole quietly from the room. She ran for blocks, reaching the nearest Drug Store, called the Mission home, asked for the elders, gave them her address, asked them to come quickly as someone was dying. In a short time, but what seemed an eternity to Ruth, two humble Mormon elders, clothed with the Priesthood of God, entered that humble home, anointed the tired head with holy oil, unitedly laid their hands upon the sufferer's head and in the name of Jesus Christ rebuked the destroyer and asked their Father in Heaven to restore her. All night Ruth kept watch. When the first faint streaks of day appeared Mother Maloney opened her tired eyes and said, "Sure, darlint, and I was near the pearly gates." With tears rolling down Ruth's cheeks, she pressed her lips tenderly against the wrinkled face and whispered, "God has been so good to me and I'm so happy, mother mine." DURING the weeks that followed there were happy evenings in the Maloney home; frequent visits from the elders; hours when they explained the Gospel and sang the songs that were so dear to that Irish heart and to Ruth. As mother Maloney listened to the sweet trio of voices sing, "O, My Father', "Lead Kindly Light", "When Irish Eyes Are Smiling", she would say, 113 "Sure and the angels couldn't sound any swater." THREE years had gone by, days, weeks and months in which John Benton had given the best of his young life in service for his church; he had tried to forget his own sorrow while he carried the gospel message to hearts that were hungering for the truth. He had received an honorable release and was to return home. When attending a mission conference Ruth's heart almost stopped _ beating; her face deathly pale, she grasped Mother Maloney's hand while Pres. Ralph, John Benton and a number of other elders walked to the stand. With all the love that had been stored in her heart for three long years, she whispered to her companion, "John" and that dear Irish heart understood. The meeting was over, everyone was thrilled with the message the humble elders had delivered. Ruth could stand it no longer, with her companion she walked to the front of the building. John gave one gasp, clasped her extended hand and with a world of love in his heart said, "Ruth". He wanted to take her in his arms and tell her again that he loved her but remembered that she belonged to another. There was little time for conversation but Mother Maloney invited President Ralph and John to share her frugal meal next day and there she told them Ruth's story. Holding Ruth in his arms and looking into her precious eyes he read some of the sorrow and heartache of the past three years. John baptized Mother Maloney and President Ralph confirmed her a member of the church. There was a quiet wedding in the Maloney home, to be solemnized later in the Temple. A message was flashed 114 across the wires to the two homes in the heart of the hills. "Ruth and John coming on the midnight train" (Signed) Mr. And Mrs. John Benton. President Ralph gave them his blessing. There were tears in Mother Maloney's eyes, tears of sorrow at parting with Ruth; tears of joy in the peace of her soul and the new found happiness for the little girl she loved so dearly. She kissed them both and wished them "Godspeed." John took Mother Maloney in his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE arms, told her he would send for her very soon and she knew that promise came from an honest heart. With smiling Irish eyes, blinded a bit by tears she said, "Shure, and I'll be ready." There was general rejoicing in the city of Beverly when the rather mysterious message reached there. There were two happy mothers, a dear father and brother who whispered, "God's Hand Doth Guide," and on bended knees they humbly said, "Father in Heaven, we thank Thee."