Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon EBRUARY?A whirl of snow marks the winter's passing. A whirl of gayety ushers in the spring. QUEEN ELENA imploring divine aid for Italy deposited her own and the King's wedding rings in an urn at the tomb of the unknown soldier. Some 8,000,000 women, including Donna Rachale Mussolini made the same sacrifice. Thus was raised $80,000,000 to the cause of the war. MB:: CLARENCE GAEQUE of London has offered an annual $1,000 scholarship for an American woman to study in Europe to gain an international understanding for the promotion of peace. MBS. ELIZABETH LONG, 102 years old, of Edmon, Pa., died last month, just after she said to her grandson, who had been reading to her from the Bible, "You know dying never entered my mind." ANNE HARDING, popular film actress has decided to stage a series of children's stories including fairy tales and children's classics, designed solely for juvenile audiences. HELEN HAYES has completely conquered the New York audiences by her recent characterization of "Victoria Regina." The years encompassed by the play, from childhood to the Diamond Jubilee, require miracles in make-up and costuming which Miss Hayes combines with her consummate art of acting to perfection. KATHERINE HEPBURN again heads the list of outstanding film stars. This year for her portrayal of "Alice Adams." ILY PONS, since producing "1 Dream Too Much," is acclaimed throughout the music world as the greatest living coloratura soprano. [ UCREZIA BORIT has announced her retirement from opera at the close of this. Season. She is a member of the directorate of the Metropolitan opera and the only member ever to sing a role. RUDIE SCHOOP, a little Swiss girl imitated a tree in a windstorm, and produced such laughter among her playmates that she determined her career was comic dancing. Now with an organized troup she has become a favorite entertainer throughout Europe. ARGARET FLINT, of Mississippi, is the winner of the $10,000 prize offered by Dodd Mead and Pictorial Review for the best novel in 1935. "The Old Ashburn Place" is the title. BESS STREETER ALDRICH'S new book, "Spring Came On Forever," is another charming saga of Nebraska life brought up to date. LLEN CHASE again presents a story of the sea faring people of the. Maine coast called 'Mary Peters." ARIE MEDORA SHORES, a former Salt Lake girl, age 16, has had a novel of adventure and intrigue accepted by the publishers.