THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN - KATE M. BARKER JULIA A. F. LUND Emma A. Empey Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Ethel Reynolds Smith President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Hazel H. Greenwood Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L. Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K, Howells Editor Manager Assistant Manaser RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman Vou. XXIII FEBRUARY, 1936 No. 2 EDITORIAL Abraham Lincoln OT only in the United States are thousands paying tribute to Abraham Lincoln on his natal day, February 12th, but in many other lands his virtues are told and men are made better through the example of his wonderful life. His sayings reach the hearts of men and move them to like action. We need today his uncompromising honesty. He said, "You may burn my body to ashes and scatter them to the winds of heaven. You may drag my soul down to the regions of darkness and despair to be tormented forever; but you will never get me to support a measure which I believe to be wrong, although by so doing I may accomplish that which I believe to be right. I know that the Lord is always on the side of the right; but it is my constant anxiety and prayer that I and this nation should be on the Lord's side. "Here are 23 ministers of different denominations and all of them are against me but three, and here are a great many prominent members of churches; a very large majority are against me. I have carefully read the Bible and I do not so understand this book," and he drew forth a pocket New Testament. "These men well know that I am for freedom in the territories, freedom everywhere as the Constitution and the laws will permit, and that my opponents are for slavery. They know this and yet, with this book in their hands, in the light of which human bondage cannot live a moment they are going to vote against me; I do not understand it at all. I know there is a God, and that He hates injustice and slavery. I see the. Storm coming, and I know that His hand is in it. If He has a place and work for me, and I think He has, I believe I am ready. J am nothing, but truth is everything; I know I am right, because I know that liberty is right, for Christ teaches it, and Christ is God. I have told them that a house divided against itself 130 cannot stand, and Christ and reason say the same, and they will find it so. Douglas doesn't care whether slavery is voted up or down, but God cares, and humanity cares, and I care, and with God's help I shall not fail. I may not see the end; but it will come and I shall be vindicated, and these men will find they have not read their Bible right." We need his faith to drive us to our knees. He