Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund?General Secretary Netherlands Mission Space for Picture here HE picture below is a group of seventy-five of the Singing Mothers of the Netherlands Mission. The picture was taken at the first Mission Relief Society Conference held September 29, 1935, in the Rotterdam Chapel. A most excellent account of this very happy event comes from Sister to carry on their part of the work. The Conference began with a testimony meeting at 8:30 in the morning. It was necessary for some of the sisters to leave home at 6 a. M. In order to be in Rotterdam for this early meeting. Ninety-six of the faithful members were present, and bore wonderful testimonies which were faith-promoting to all who heard them. One elderly sister, a GROUP OF SINGING MOTHERS OF THE NETHERLANDS MISSIONS Hermana F. Lyon, President of the Mission Relief Societies. It was quite an undertaking for the sisters of the Mission, but the great interest that was taken, and the remarkable success of the conference, indicates that it may be an annual event. It also gave, as the Relief Society conferences do everywhere, an inspiration for the work throughout the entire season. This conference had the effect of demonstrating to the brethren, the ability of the sisters member of the first Relief Society in Holland, was present on this memorable occasion. During the following meetings held during the day, the program of education and activity as it is sponsored by the Relief Society organization, was given in fine detail. Including a demonstration of correct visiting teachers' work, the proper use of the charity fund, and a splendid demonstration of the lesson work. The ideas for the conference 124 program were suggested by the Relef Society Magazine, and the Bulletins that are sent from the office to the missions. Sister Lyon stressed the very important fact that the Netherlands Mission is not an isolated group, but a part of the great Relief Society as a whole, worldwide in its scope. The practical phases of the work were included, and one very interesting part of the program was a discussion on how to hold a successful bazaar without resorting to raffling. The Relief Society manual, Handicrafts for Every Woman, is welcome in this Mission, and felt to be a great aid in the practical work. At noon a warm lunch was served to the visiting sisters, and in the afternoon the time of the meeting was given over to reports from the branch presidents. This proved to be most successful, and while the women have had little experience in public speaking, they gave very excellent reports, and only two out of the number of Presidents were absent. The music furnished by the chorus of seventy-five Singing Mothers was a most beautiful part of the service. The Conference concluded with the evening session. There were three hundred and eighty-four saints and many investigators present at the conference, which concluded with the evening session. During these remarkable meetings splendid missionary work was accomplished, and a demonstration given of what the Relief Society can do for the women of the Church, To quote Sister Lyon: "It was with regret and thanksgiving that we heard the last song and prayer?regret that our spiritual feast together had come to an end, but sincere gratitude to our Father for the rich outpouring of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE His Holy Spirit upon our gatherings. We will long remember our Testimony and other meetings and the lovely music of our Singing Mothers." Tongan Mission THE Tongan Mission, the most remote from Relief Society headquarters, consists of eighteen branches. The Relief Society President, Sister Martha E. Wolfgram, writes: "Were it not for the handicap in the language there would be 100% Magazine subscriptions in this Mission." The sisters are so appreciative of the letters from the office, and of everything that comes to them. Deep gratitude is felt for the lessons prepared for their use, and they do thrill at the feeling that they are a part of the great whole, and are recognized as such. Conditions in Tonga are different from those in any other part of the Church, perhaps, as there are no poor, no one in dire need. The people have very little money, but food grows in abundance, and everyone has a home. Good use is made of the money which is collected in the organization to help the mission and missionaries. "The Gate Beautiful," a lovely pageant printed in the April, 1935 issue of the Relief Society Magazine, was presented at the district conference, and went over very successfully. "We are ready at all times to do our part in furthering the great work, you can be assured of our following in every way the instructions and advice from the General Board." South American Mission HE first message comes from Sister W. Ernest Young, President of the South American Mission NOTES FROM THE FIELD Relief Society: ?We greet you from sunny South America. It is a very interesting place to be. The saints are anxious to learn and do new things. It is a pleasure to work with such an interesting group of sisters as we have in our Relief Society here. We now have two organizations in this Mission, one is German, the other Spanish. Soon we shall organize another branch at Haedo. "Our program of this year follows: (a) Theology; (b) History? Study of Argentine development; (c) Music; (d) Work and Business Meeting; (e) Open day each fifth week, i.e., during a month of the quarter. Our program is to develop interesting work meetings." Parowan Stake VERY beautiful flower show, sponsored by the three Relief Societies of Cedar City and the 125 Cedar City Garden Club, was held in Cedar City, September 14, 1935. Miss Mary L. Bastow of the B. A. C. Judged the display on color harmony and arrangement. The judge remarked that it was one of the most beautiful and well arranged flower shows she had ever seen. More thought was given to color harmony and arrangement rather than species of flowers. There were over one hundred individual entries made. One of the outstanding features of the Show was the three table settings. Each Ward arranged one table. There were two luncheon tables, one formal and one informal, and one dinner table. Fruits and vegetables were emphasized as table decorations. The women all felt that the affair was a fine success and are looking forward to a bulb show which they are planning for next Spring. Flower Show, Cedar City, Sept. 14, 1935 126 Benson Stake "THE remarkable frugality and wide scope of Relief Society activities is shown in the reports that come into the office from the Stakes and Wards of the organization. A very splendid piece of work was accomplished in the Benson Stake in cooperation with the Cache County Red Cross organization. A course in Home Hygiene and Care of the Sick was recently completed, and certificates have been awarded to eighty-nine women, one of the largest classes of this type to successfully complete the work, according to the statement of the National organization. The closing of the course was made the occasion for very fine public exercises, where the value of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Red Cross training and the education the Relief Society women had received, were stressed.. An outline of the work which had been accomplished was given, and recognition was made by the public officials and members of the Relief Society, with appropriate musical numbers. DURING the holiday season all members of Sharon Stake who were ill or home-bound were entertained in a special manner. The Sisters in each Ward divided themselves into groups and visited every home, where a meeting was held followed by a social. Some of those visited had been unable to come out to meeting for years and deeply appreciated and enjoyed these lovely gatherings.