[WomansExponent | Vol2 | 1873 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: THINKING. | Author: Unknown]

THINKING. 

	In home life, social life, business life, however
rsituated, nothing can be of more vast impor-
tance than sound and considerate forethought.
"I didn't think," is the most common excuse
for all the little blunders, and even errors of
greater magnitude. Yet such an apology is, in
reality, none at all. Why do not people think
more attentively than the masses do, thus
sparing themselves the cause, in ninty-nine
cases out of every hundred, of extenuation and
regret? It betokens a weak mind to seem
ever absent in thought; and it is not until the
power of thinking is somewhat cultivated,
that it may be at least partially under control
of the will, that a person becomes agreeable as
a social companion in any connection. Lord
Chesterfield once said: "I would rather be in
the company of a dead man than with an absent
one; for if the dead man affords me no pleasure,
at least he shows me no contempt; whereas the
absent man, very plainly, though silently, tells
me that he does not think me worth his atten-
tion. Besides, an absent man can never make
any observations upon the characters, customs,
and manners of the company. He may be in
the best companies all his lifetime (if they will
admit him), and never become the wiser; we


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


may as well converse with a deaf man as an
absent one. It is, indeed, a practical blunder,
to address ourselves to a man who, we plainly
perceive, neither hears, minds, nor understands
us.” 
	It is a great thing, the foundation of real and
useful education, to be able to think compre-
hensively, upon varied subjects. Mothers and
housewives, particularly, should have their
minds so disciplined that quick and wise
thoughts, about almost everything in nature
may be readily handed out; for children's heads
are ever filled with radiant yet immatured
fancies, which demand intelligent answers to
knotty questions; and household duties—almost
more than any others, must have that close
attention which enables one to contrive, plan,
measure and determine concerning the most
minute items as well as the greater indispensi-
bilities connected with daily living. The most
material knowledge of the world may be ac-
quired by close application and judicious
thinking; but without this, a correct knowledge
of anything is unattainable.


