[Vol41 | August 1954 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Fiction | Title: Dependable Jane | Author: Myrtle M. Dean]
COSTUMED  MODELS  OF  THE  FIRST  LADIES  509 
satin,  with  ruffled  trimmings  and  train;  Mary  Arthur  McElroy,  sister  of  Chester  A. 
Arthur,  in  a  gown  of  silver  and  gray  brocade,  with  front  panel;  Maria  Monroe  Gouver- 
neur,  daughter  of  James  Monroe,  in  sky-blue  silk,  with  overskirt  trimmed  in  straw  em- 
broidery; Ellen  Axson  Wilson,  first  wife  of  W^oodrow  Wilson,  in  white  chiffon,  with 
brocaded  overskirt;  Julia  Gardiner  Tyler,  second  wife  of  John  Tyler,  wearing  a  gown 
with  tiered  skirt  trimmed  with  multi-colored  embroidery;  Mrs.  John  Adams,  wearing 
blue  brocade,  trimmed  with  a  bertha,  and  holding  a  fan;  Mrs.  P'ranklin  Delano  Roose- 
velt, in  blue  lace  with  train;  Jane  Irwin  Findlay,  chaperone  for  the  daughter-in-law 
(widowed  Jane  Irwin  Harrison)  of  William  Henry  Harrison,  in  mole  colored  velvet, 
with  white  collar;  Mrs.  Grover  Cleveland,  in  flowered  silk,  with  bolero;  Harriet  Lane 
Johnston,  niece  of  James  Buchanan,  in  white  moire  taffeta,  with  full  train;  Mrs.  War- 
ren G.  Harding,  in  white  satin,  with  train,  shorter  in  front;  Sarah  Yorke  Jackson,  niece 
of  Andrew  Jackson,  in  white  brocaded  chiffon,  with  satin  bodice;  Mrs.  James  Knox  Polk, 
in  brocade,  with  puffed  and  ruffled  sleeves;  Mrs.  Ulysses  S.  Grant,  in  silver  brocade  with 
full  skirt  and  lace  bertha. 
Two  models  at  left,  in  front  of  Mrs.  Whiting:  Mrs.  Herbert  Hoover,  in  light  green 
satin,  with  overskirt  and  train;  Emily  Donelson,  niece  of  Andrew  Jackson,  tan  satin, 
with  overskirt  and  bustle. 
Two  models  at  right,  in  front  of  Miss  Johnson:  Mrs.  Millard  Fillmore,  wearing 
orchid  taffeta,  with  brocade  flounce;  Mrs.  James  Madison,  in  yellow  satin,  with  lace 
bertha  collar. 
Eight  models  standing  at  the  back,  left  to  right:  Mrs.  Edith  Boiling  Wilson  (sec- 
ond wife  of  Woodrow  Wilson)  wearing  black  \elvet,  with  beaded  train;  Martha  John- 
son Patterson,  daughter  of  Andrew  Johnson,  wearing  a  silk  damask  dress  and  a  cloak 
of  Algerian  style  made  of  cream  colored  goat's  hair  and  silk;  Mrs.  Edith  Kermit  Roose- 
velt (second  wife  of  Theodore  Roosevelt),  wearing  blue  brocaded  satin,  and  holding  a 
book;  Martha  Jefferson  Randolph,  daughter  of  Thomas  Jefferson,  white  embroidered 
dress  and  Paisley  shawl;  Mrs.  William  Howard  Taft  in  empire  dress  of  white  chiffon, 
embroidered  in  goldenrod  pattern;  Elizabeth  Taylor  Dandridge,  daughter  of  Zachary 
Taylor,  wearing  silk  plaid,  with  full  skirt;  Mrs.  James  Monroe,  in  white  flowered  bro- 
cade, with  saque  overskirt;  Mrs.  Franklin  Pierce,  wearing  black  net  with  silver  dots, 
(Not  included  are  the  models  of  Mrs.  Harry  I'ruman  and  Mrs.  Dwight  D.  Eisen- 
hower.) 
^acaranda  in    ioloom 
Ethel  Jacohson 
Hea\enward,  heaxcnward  the  great  tree  stretched 
W^ide,  wide  arms,  flower-etched, 
Aching  with  blooms  a  rarer  blue 
Than  hea\en  itself  e\er  knew. 
The  dancing  blossoms  clustered  high. 
Garlands  to  \eil  the  paler  sky. 
Bells  of  sapphire  to  swing  and  fall 
Till  a  petaled  carpet  covered  all  ...  . 
Till  earth  and  tree  were  the  hue  of  heather. 
Hyacinth,  periwinkle,  martin  feather, 
Mist  at  morning,  ho\ering,  clin^ng — 
Color  of  sjlcnce,  color  of  singing. 
The  wind  shook  another  panicle  free 
And  a  housewife  frowned,  "What  a  dirty  tree!'* 
And,  striding  across  the  scattered  bloom. 
She  hurried  in  and  fetched  a  broom.

Dependable  Jane 
Myrtle  M.  Dean 
JANE  
smoothed  her  shining  hair 
that  swept  up  from  her  forehead 
in  soft,  brown  curls.  For  a  mo- 
ment she  stood  before  the  big  mirror 
that  covered  the  wall  above  the 
mantel,  then  smiled  and  pirouetted, 
sending  her  full  skirt  out  in  pretty 
swirls  as  she  watehed  her  trim  fig- 
ure in  the  glass.  She  had  just  put 
on  her  blue,  silk  print  dress.  The 
blue  of  the  dress  was  almost  the 
color  of  her  eyes. 
Suddenly  Jane  stood  still  and 
turned  toward  the  door.  For  a  mo- 
ment she  stared,  as  though  some 
unwelcome  visitor  had  appeared. 
'Tride  goeth  before  a  fall,  Janie." 
Jane  heard  the  words  as  plainly  as 
though  Aunt  Martha  Jane  had  been 
right  there  saying  them,  instead  of 
down  at  Brent\ille,  fifty  miles  away. 
Jane  shrugged  her  shoulders  and 
forced  a  little  laugh.  '*Now,  Jane 
Martin,  don't  be  speaking  Aunt 
Martha  Jane's  lines  for  her,"  she 
said  half  aloud;  but  she  knew  those 
were  the  exact  words  Martha  Jane 
would  have  said,  had  she  caught  her 
preening  before  the  mirror. 
She  reminded  herself  aloud,  "Re- 
member what  you  told  yourself 
when  you  landed  at  Avondale,  Janie. 
You  are  a  new  Jane  now;  new  town, 
new  people,  and  best  of  all,  your 
husband  has  a  new  job,  and  you 
are  not  to  be  known  as  the  old  De- 
pendable Jane  up  here  either." 
Jane  smiled  as  she  remembered 
how  proud  she  and  Ste\'e  had  both 
been  when  he  had  taken  her  down 
to  his  new  office  for  her  first  time. 
Steve    had    looked   so    happy,    and 
Page  510 
as  they  went  up  the  steps  he  had 
looked  down  at  her  smiling  expect- 
antly. 
''Oh,  Ste\'e,  look,  Strebel  and 
Martin,  there  on  the  door  in  gold 
letters!  Isn't  it  wonderful!"  she 
had  exclaimed  proudly. 
"See,  there  is  more  there,  too," 
Steve  said,  beaming. 
They  read  the  rest  together,  "At- 
torneys at  Law."  She  and  Steve  had 
laughed  together  like  two  children. 
They  were  remembering  the  days 
of  struggle  they  had  gone  through 
ever  since  they  were  married.  When 
Steve  had  come  home  from  a  mis- 
sion to  England,  he  had  gone  into 
the  army,  and,  after  that,  through 
law  school.  Kathy  and  Michael  had 
come  to  them  during  the  school 
years. 
"Remember  all  the  nice  beef  stew 
we  had,  made  from  Sunday's  roasts, 
and  the  nice  soft  bed  we  slept  in, 
the  living  room  couch  let  out  for 
two?"  Jane  tried  to  smile,  but  her 
face  was  half  serious,  remembering, 
as  Steve  spoke. 
"And  was  it  Mrs.  Murphy,  that 
you  walked  in  on,  thinking  you  were 
in  our  house?"  Jane  asked,  laugh- 
ing. 
"It  was  those  houses  all  set  in  a 
tight  row,  and  all  painted  white 
with  a  tiny  porch  on  the  front;  and 
was  Mrs.  Murphy  ready  to  call  the 
cops!  We  can  laugh  now  it's  over, 
can't  we,  Janie?" 
"It's  going  to  be  different  now, 
Steve,"  Jane  said  seriously. 
Steve's  eyes  grew  thoughtful  for 
a  moment,  "I'm  still  scared,  though.

DEPENDABLE  JANE 
511 
A  new  job  in  a  new  town,  and  I'm 
just  not  the  sort  that  can  sail  on 
someone  else's  steam;  I've  got  to 
do  things  for  myself.  Strebel  took 
me  in,  now  I  want  to  show  him  that 
I  can  be  more  than  a  fixture  about 
the  place."  Steve  ran  his  hands 
through  his  dark  hair,  and  pulled 
his  brow  into  a  worried  frown. 
''Strebel  took  you  in  because  he 
needed  you.  You  were  highly  rec- 
ommended to  him  by  your  school. 
You'll  make  good,  too.  I'm  sure  of 
it."  Jane  took  Steve's  hand  in  both 
of  her  own. 
'Thanks,  Janie,  I'll  do  it  for  you, 
and  for  Kathy  and  Michael." 
TT  had  been  only  a  few  weeks  since 
then,  and  Jane  was  proud  of  what 
Steve  had  accomplished.  Tonight 
they  were  celebrating;  not  the  way 
that  Steve  had  planned,  but  at 
home  with  the  children,  and  all 
dressed  up.  That  is  why  Jane  was 
wearing  her  new,  blue  silk  print;  it 
was  Steve's  favorite. 
''Hi,  hon,  hovv'  about  a  date  for 
dinner  tonight,  at  the  Sunset  Inn, 
or  maybe  we  should  go  dancing?" 
Steve's  voice  had  been  bubbling 
o\'er  with  happiness  when  he  called 
her  that  afternoon  from  the  office. 
"Steve,  are  you  all  right?"  There 
was  surprise  in  Jane's  tone.  She 
remembered  how  they  had  wrestled 
with  their  account  book  last  night 
for  hours,  trying  to  figure  how  to 
make  ends  meet  until  payday. 
"Really  Janie,  I'm  serious.  I  want 
to  celebrate.  I  just  got  my  first  big 
case  for  the  firm,  all  on  my  own.  A 
big  shot  from  the  ridge  walked  in 
and  asked  for  Steve  Martin,  and 
that's  I,  darling.  I've  been  pulHng 
hard  to  bring  that  oil  case  our  way." 
Jane  had  loved  the  sound  of  his 
voice;  the  sureness  of  it,  after  all 
his  doubts,  but  they  must  wait 
awhile  to  celebrate.  "Listen,  Steve, 
dear,  you  remember  last  night,  well, 
the  budget  doesn't  balance  any  bet- 
ter today.  We'll  just  have  to  wait 
awhile." 
"Guess  you  are  right,  Janie,''  he 
said,  but  his  voice  had  gone  flat. 
Jane  almost  hated  herself  for  let- 
ting the  old  Dependable  Jane  crop 
up.  It  would  almost  be  worth 
spending  their  last  dollar,  but  she 
said,  "You  see,  there  would  have 
to  be  a  girl  to  stay  with  the  children, 
too,  and,  Steve,  I'd  love  fixing  some- 
thing special  and  celebrating  here." 
She  knew  her  own  voice  sounded 
deflated. 
"O.K.  I'll  see  you  at  five-thirty." 
Ste\'e  had  tried  to  keep  his  voice 
bright. 
Jane  was  glad  that  Steve  seemed 
to  feel  really  gay  at  dinner,  and  she 
was  sure  that  they  both  ate  more 
than  they  would  had  they  gone  to 
the  Sunset. 
Sitting  in  the  living  room  after 
dinner,  Steve  said,  "It's  a  good  thing 
I  have  you,  Janie,  to  keep  me  from 
going  o\'erboard.  You're  the  one 
who  has  taken  the  raps  all  along. 
With  me  first  in  the  army,  then  in 
school,  you  had  most  of  the  respon- 
sibility of  the  children,  too."  Steve 
drew  her  close  as  he  spoke.  "You 
are  so  dependable,"  he  finished. 
Jane  straightened  suddenly,  and 
sat  silently  for  a  moment,  her  lips 
set  in  too  tight  a  line  for  Janie's. 
"Please  don't  say  that  word  here, 
Steve,"  she  said.  "Down  at  Brent- 
ville,  I  was  always  Dependable  Jane, 
and  that  meant  I  was  the  town 
lacky;  to  head  the  committees  on 
fund  dinners,  to  sub  for  a  teacher, 
to  hurry  down  to  the   Red  Cross

512 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST   1954 
center,  or  fill  in  at  a  party  on  a  mo- 
ment's notice." 
Jane  saw  the  surprise  in  Steve's 
eves  at  her  outburst,  and  he  said, 
*"l'o  me  vou  are  just  mv  Janie,  but 
by  those  who  ealled  you  Dependable 
Jane  it  was  meant  as  a  big  compli- 
ment. Everyone  in  Brentville  loves 
you,  Janie,  just  as  they  will  here 
when  folks  get  to  know  you.''  Steve 
tweaked  her  ear  and  tried  a  grin  at 
her,  but  her  face  was  still  solemn. 
"Why  did  Mother  and  Dad  have 
to  name  me  for  Aunt  Martha  Jane, 
anyway?  Everyone,  including  Aunt 
Jane,  expects  me  to  be  like  her,  al- 
ways good  and  dependable;  at  least 
up  here  she  can't  always  be  quoting 
her  aphorisms  at  me.  'A  stitch  in 
time  saves  nine,'  if  a  button  is  off. 
'Wilful  waste  brings  woeful  want.' 
'Birds  of  a  feather,'  and  'Water  al- 
ways seeks  its  level,'  and  all  the 
others." 
''Aunt  Martha  Jane  was  reared 
on  pioneer  rations,  Janie,  but,  in 
spite  of  it  all,  she  is  an  old  dear." 
"I'm  sorry,  Steve.  I've  spoiled  the 
evening,  and  this  was  supposed  to 
be  a  celebration,"  Jane  said  sincere- 
"We  must  get  acquainted  with 
our  neighbors.  You'll  soon  have 
lots  of  friends  here,  and  with  our 
Church  activities,  I'm  sure  we  will 
like  it  fine,"  Steve  said. 
npHIS  reminded  Jane  that  the  Re- 
lief Society  president  had  asked 
her  to  teach  the  literature  lessons 
for  the  coming  year,  and  she  had 
made  all  kinds  of  excuses. 
"I  have  the  children,  and  they 
take  their  nap  in  the  afternoon,"  she 
had  said. 
"We  have  a  nursery,  and  an  ex- 
cellent girl  to  care  for  the  children; 
and  there  are  so  many  fine  women, 
I'm  sure  )'Ou'd  enjoy  mingling  with 
them,"  the  president  had  persuaded. 
Jane  had  finally  refused,  but  not 
without  a  twinge  of  conscience.  To 
herself  she  had  reasoned,  surely  one 
dcscr\'es  a  rest  after  doing  all  I  have 
done  for  so  long.  Yet  she  knew  that 
Steve  would  be  hurt  if  he  knew,  so 
she  had  decided  not  to  tell  him. 
"Oh,  I  forgot  to  tell  you,"  Steve 
said.  "'I'hcy  have  asked  me  to  work 
with  the  Scouts  this  fall;  so  I  will 
be  right  back  in  the  old  groove." 
His  eyes  shone  bright  with  pleasure. 
Jane  thought  of  all  the  time  chat 
Ste\'C  used  to  spend  with  the  Scouts 
down  at  Brentville,  and  how  he 
would  be  now,  with  a  troop  of  boys 
walking  over  her  rugs,  and  twisting 
about  on  the  new  chairs  and  living- 
room  set.  She  saw  that  Steve  was 
looking  at  her,  waiting  for  her  com- 
ment. 
"Do  you  think  you  will  like  that 
job  here?  It  takes  so  much  of  your 
time,  and  with  your  work,  you've 
just  got  to  make  good,"  she  said 
uneasily. 
"I'm  still  a  boy  at  heart,  Janie, 
and  the  boys  have  to  have  someone 
to  look  after  them.  You  know  our 
Michael  is  going  to  be  a  Scout  one 
of  these  davs,"  Steve  spoke  thought- 
fully. 
Jane  felt  a  bit  uncomfortable,  and 
changed  the  subject.  "One  of  the 
neighbors  called  this  afternoon;  the 
lady  that  lives  in  the  red  brick  house 
a  few  doors  down,"  she  told  him. 
"What  is  she  like?  You'll  like 
her  I  hope." 
"Her  name  is  Mary  Carson,  and 
she's  a  nice  person;  nice— and 
dependable."  Then,  noting  Steve's 
sly  look,  she  added,  "Like  me."  She 
wrinkled    her    nose    at    him,    and

DEPENDABLE  JANE 
513 
smiled.  ''She  brought  a  plate  of 
cookies  for  the  children.  She  has 
two  children,  a  boy  and  a  girl." 
'1  like  her  already,"  Steve  said, 
looking  pleased.  "And  isn't  there 
one  cookie  left  for  me?" 
Jane  brought  the  remaining 
cookies,  and  they  munched  them 
together  as  they  talked.  She  was 
glad  that  Steve's  enthusiasm  re- 
turned as  they  spoke  of  his  work. 
A  few  evenings  later,  Steve  came 
from  work,  and  found  Jane  bub- 
bling over  with  excitement.  ''What 
do  you  know,  Steve?"  she  exclaimed 
starry-eyed.  "Mrs.  Darcy  has  asked 
me  to  be  a  guest  at  her  club  next 
Tuesday.  Her  husband  owns  the 
biggest  department  store  in  town; 
and  Mrs.  Cline,  the  banker's  wife, 
will  be  there,  and  Mrs.  Lane,  she 
operates  a  travel  bureau.  I've  just 
been  dying  to  see  inside  the  Darcy 
house,"  she  ran  on  breathlessly. 
"Hum  .  .  .  my  little  Janie,  with 
all  the  elite  of  the  town,"  Steve  said, 
but  with  less  enthusiasm  than  Jane 
had  wished. 
"I  hoped  if  I  met  the  right  peo- 
ple it  might  bring  business  your 
way,"  she  confessed  earnestly. 
"These  women  are  the  social  arbi- 
ters of  Avondale." 
"We  don't  want  to  try  too  hard 
for  business,"  Steve  answered,  and 
Jane  felt  that  there  was  a  note  of 
reproof  in  his  voice,  as  well  as  a 
serious,  puzzled  look  on  his  face. 
Jane's  face  flushed  with  disap- 
pointment. She  decided  to  try  an- 
other topic,  one  she  knew  Steve 
would  be  interested  in.  "David 
Graham  has  just  returned  from  his 
mission  to  England,  he  is  to  be  the 
speaker  in  Church  next  Sunday," 
she  told  him.  England  had  been 
Steve's  mission  field,  too. 
TN    Church    on    Sunday   as    Jane 
watched  Steve's  shining  eyes  as 
they  listened  to  the  missionary,  she 
thought,  Steve  will  never  change; 
his  Church  will  always  be  first,  and 
a  deep  love  filled  her. 
"They  were  the  most  wonderful 
years  I  ever  spent,  those  two  and  a 
half  I  spent  in  the  mission  field," 
the  elder  was  saying. 
They  all  say  that.  Steve  said 
those  very  same  words,  Jane  said  to 
herself. 
"It  is  serving  others  that  brings 
happiness,  and  serving  God  brings 
the  greatest  happiness  of  all,"  David 
Graham  went  on,  then  he  said, 
"serving  in  the  Church  is  not  a 
labor  but  a  privilege." 
Jane  was  quiet  and  thoughtful  as 
they  drove  home.  "Serving  in  the 
Church  is  not  a  labor,  but  a  priv- 
ilege." Impatiently  she  tried  to 
push  the  words  out  of  her  mind, 
but  they  kept  coming  back.  Why 
should  my  conscience  keep  nagging 
at  me?  I've  worked  in  the  Church 
all  of  my  life. 
Steve  seemed  to  be  lost  in  his 
own  thoughts,  too.  When  he  spoke 
his  voice  was  vibrant  with  emotion. 
"Elder  Graham  says  that  the  whole 
Lester  family  joined  the  Church 
soon  after  I  came  home,  and  they 
told  him  I  was  the  one  who  con- 
verted them.  There  are  several 
others  who  have  joined  that  I  con- 
tacted while  there.  Oh,  Janie,  it 
makes  me  feel  wonderful  to  think 
I  have  helped  a  few  to  see  the 
light." 
A  full  moon  was  peeking  over  the 
tall  hills  to  the  east  of  them,  and 
cottony  clouds  floated  about  in  the 
sky.  There  was  the  spicy  tang  of 
autumn  coming  to  them  from  the 
foothills,  where  the  oaks  and  maples