[Vol41 | August 1954 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Sewing Machines | Author: Rhea H. Gardner]
Vork IT lecting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

Lesson 2—Sewing Machines
Rhea H. Gardner
For Tuesday, November 9, 1954

LONG with the cookstove and washer, the sewing machine has long been considered an indispensable piece of household equipment. It is a symbol of industry, the independence of women and their desire to create lovely things. Sewing machines of reputable manufacturers, when given proper care, should last for many years. The purchase of one should come only after careful consideration and planning. As with all other kinds of household equipment, the prospective buyer would do well to acquaint herself with the performance of sev- 554 eral different makes of machines before deciding to buy a particular model. Compare prices, performance, guarantees, and available repair services. Home tests are among the most reliable sources of information regarding the performance of a piece of equipment. One of the first points to decide on is the amount and kind of sewing for which the machine will be used. Often one can find exactly what suits her needs and circumstances best in the used sewing machine market. Before buying an old make, however, one should make sure that parts are available, should they be needed. To handle a wider range in stitch styles, and for such specialty sewing as decorative stitching and embroldery work, the more versatile sewing needle or zig-zag machines have quite recently come into use. However, machines that make only a good straight seam are often all that a seamstress, who has little use for machine-made effects, needs. The importance of buying from reputable manufacturers and dealers who will stand back of their sales cannot be overemphasized. The fact that a particular make can be paid for on a long-time payment plan, should be the least excuse for buying it. Credit is expensive, whether or not it is itemized as such. Only if the machine can begin to start paying for itself, should a long-time payment plan ever be given consideration. There is also the choice between a cabinet or a portable machine. A cabinet with well supported leaves and sturdy legs gives good sewing support and is ready for instant use. A simply made but sturdily conRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 structed cabinet, without drawers, may actually harmonize better with other room furnishings than would a more costly one with fancy decoration. Storage drawers for sewing supplies can usually be built into the sewing area of your home much less expensively than a cabinet with drawers. Where space is limited, and budget is overtaxed, the portable model will likely serve your needs best. Most companies have a good turn-in plan, if later one decides to purchase a cabinet model. Every machine, regardless of make, model, or age deserves good care. 'Two main causes of machine failure are accumulations of dirt and lint, and lack of oil. Frequent use of a one-inch paint brush around the moving parts of your machine, will do much to ward off trouble later. Use it during your sewing day to remove lint and dust as it accumulates around the working parts. Both are damaging to the fine mechanism of your machine. Moisture from your breath as you attempt to blow away the lint accumulation, may actually damage the parts affected more than would the hnt itself. Sewing machines require high quality oil with a base that evaporates as the oil is used, whereas most other machines about the home require oil with a non-evaporating base. 'The frequency of oiling depends on the kind of materials being sewed, speed of the machine, and hours of actual sewing. 'The general rule is to oil after every eight hours of sewing. Use oil sparingly, but do not neglect a part that needs it. It is not the amount of oil used, but the timeliness of the application that is important. 'The LESSON DEPARTMENT instruction book that comes with the machine contains valuable information regarding its use and care. Refer to it when making all minor adjustments, oiling, and doing general cleaning. It may save you many dollars.

Eb)

Thoughts for Discussion
1. Did you "buy" your sewing machine or was it "sold" to you?
2. Why did you buy the machine you did? What advice would you give a prospective buyer?
3. Have discussion by class members, erro