[Vol41 | August 1954 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
[Work Meeting: Sewing Machines Rhea H. Gardner]
good  works,  as  long  as  we  shall  live. 
Surely  life  eternal  is  worth  working 
for!  Life  everlasting  is  the  prize— 
the  highest  reward  that  can  come 
to  man. 
Vi/ork    1 1  ieeting — Selection,  Care,  and  Use  of 
Household  Equipment 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  W^ards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  2— Sewing  Machines 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
For  Tuesday,  No\cmbcr  9,  1954 
ALONG  with  the  eookstove  and 
washer,  the  sewing  machine  has 
long  been  considered  an  indispen- 
sable piece  of  household  equipment. 
It  is  a  symbol  of  industry,  the  inde- 
pendence of  women  and  their  desire 
to  create  lovely  things. 
Sewing    machines    of    reputable 
manufacturers,  when  given  proper 
care,  should  last  for  many  years.  The 
purchase  of  one  should  come  only 
after  careful  consideration  and  plan- 
ning. As  with  all  other  kinds  of 
household  equipment,  the  prospec- 
tive buyer  would  do  well  to  acquaint 
herself  with  the  performance  of  sev-

554 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST   1954 
eral  different  makes  of  machines  be- 
fore deciding  to  buy  a  particular 
model.  Compare  prices,  perform- 
ance, guarantees,  and  available  re- 
pair ser\'ices.  Home  tests  are 
among  the  most  reliable  sources  of 
information  regarding  the  perform- 
ance of  a  piece  of  equipment. 
One  of  the  first  points  to  decide 
on  is  the  amount  and  kind  of  sewing 
for  which  the  machine  will  be  used. 
Often  one  can  find  exactly  what 
suits  her  needs  and  circumstances 
best  in  the  used  sewing  machine 
market.  Before  buying  an  old  make, 
however,  one  should  make  sure  that 
parts  are  available,  should  they  be 
needed. 
To  handle  a  wider  range  in  stitch 
styles,  and  for  such  specialty  sewing 
as  decorative  stitching  and  embroi- 
dery work,  the  more  versatile  sewing 
needle  or  zig-zag  machines  have 
quite  recently  come  into  use.  How- 
ever, machines  that  make  only  a 
good  straight  seam  are  often  all  that 
a  seamstress,  who  has  little  use  for 
machine-made  effects,  needs. 
The  importance  of  buying  from 
reputable  manufacturers  and  deal- 
ers who  will  stand  back  of  their  sales 
cannot  be  overemphasized.  The  fact 
that  a  particular  make  can  be  paid 
for  on  a  long-time  payment  plan, 
should  be  the  least  excuse  for  buy- 
ing it.  Credit  is  expensive,  whether 
or  not  it  is  itemized  as  such.  Only 
if  the  machine  can  begin  to  start 
paying  for  itself,  should  a  long-time 
payment  plan  ever  be  given  consid- 
eration. 
There  is  also  the  choice  between 
a  cabinet  or  a  portable  machine.  A 
cabinet  with  well  supported  leaves 
and  sturdy  legs  gives  good  sewing 
support  and  is  ready  for  instant  use. 
A   simply   made  but   sturdily   con- 
structed cabinet,  without  drawers, 
mav  actually  harmonize  better  with 
other  room  furnishings  than  would 
a  more  costly  one  with  fancy  decora- 
tion. Storage  drawers  for  sewing 
supplies  can  usually  be  built  into 
the  sewing  area  of  your  home  much 
less  expensively  than  a  cabinet  with 
drawers.  Where  space  is  limited, 
and  budget  is  overtaxed,  the  port- 
able model  will  likely  serve  your 
needs  best.  Most  companies  ha\e  a 
good  turn-in  plan,  if  later  one  de- 
cides to  purchase  a  cabinet  model. 
Every  machine,  regardless  of 
make,  model,  or  age  deserves  good 
care.  Two  main  causes  of  machine 
failure  are  accumulations  of  dirt  and 
lint,  and  lack  of  oil.  Frequent  use 
of  a  one-inch  paint  brush  around 
the  moving  parts  of  your  machine, 
will  do  much  to  ward  off  trouble 
later.  Use  it  during  your  sewing  day 
to  remove  lint  and  dust  as  it  ac- 
cumulates around  the  working  parts. 
Both  are  damaging  to  the  fine  mech- 
anism of  your  machine.  Moisture 
from  your  breath  as  you  attempt  to 
blow  away  the  lint  accumulation, 
may  actually  damage  the  parts  af- 
fected more  than  would  the  hnt 
itself. 
Sewing  machines  require  high 
quality  oil  with  a  base  that  evap- 
orates as  the  oil  is  used,  whereas 
most  other  machines  about  the 
home  require  oil  with  a  non-evapor- 
ating base.  The  frequency  of  oiling 
depends  on  the  kind  of  materials 
being  sewed,  speed  of  the  machine, 
and  hours  of  actual  sewing.  The 
general  rule  is  to  oil  after  e\'ery 
eight  hours  of  sewing.  Use  oil  spar- 
ingly, but  do  not  neglect  a  part  that 
needs  it.  It  is  not  the  amount  of 
oil  used,  but  the  timeliness  of  the 
application  that  is  important.    The