[Vol41 | August 1954 | Sequence: 19 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
Missouri  in  1832,  Joseph  and  Hyrum 
Smith  departed  from  Kirtland  for 
Missouri.  Before  leaving,  the 
Prophet  instructed  Reynolds  Ca- 
hoon  to  proceed  with  the  building 
of  a  house  which  was  to  serve  for 
both  a  meeting  house  and  a  school. 
Lucy  relates  in  her  Liie  of  Joseph 
Smith: 
Wc  were  now  unusually  anxious  to 
meet  together  as  often  as  possible,  in  or- 
der to  unite  our  faith  and  prayers  in  be- 
half of  our  brethren;  but,  for  a  length  of 
time  after  they  left,  almost  every  meeting 
was  broken  up  by  a  storm.  In  consequence 
of  this,  together  with  the  near  approach 
of  winter,  we  began  to  urge  upon  Brother 
Cahoon  the  necessity  of  hurrying  the 
building,  but  he  said  that  he  could  do 
nothing  about  the  matter,  as  he  had 
neither  time  nor  means  ....  Finally,  I 
told  my  husband,  I  believed  that  I  could 
raise  the  means  myself  to  finish  the  build- 
ing, and,  if  he  would  give  his  consent,  I 
would  try  and  see  what  I  could  do  ...  . 
I  then  wrote  a  subscription  paper,  in 
which  I  agreed  to  refund  all  the  money 
that  should  be  gi\'en,  in  case  it  could  not 
be  appropriated  to  the  purpose  for  which 
it  should  be  subscribed  ....  Accordingly 
I  continued  to  collect  means  and  employ 
hands  until  the  house  was  thoroughly 
completed  even  to  the  fastening  of  the 
doors;  and  when  this  was  accomplished, 
there  was  but  six  dollars  remaining  un- 
paid, and  this  debt  my  husband  afterwards 
discharged  by  the  sale  of  produce. 
What  a  lesson  to  all  of  us! 
A  word  should  here  be  said  about 
Emma  Smith.  She  suffered  much 
and  had  many  trials.  She,  too,  bore 
a  large  family,  but  death  came  often 
to  her  household;  sorrow  was  a 
major  part  of  her  life.  She  endured 
the  hardships  of  Missouri.  She  saw 
her    husband    thrown    into    prison
