\NYONE who might have seen Hildy Carlson as she marched resolutely down Main Street that morning would have thought, now, there goes a woman with a purpose. And they would have been right about Hildy. They also would have thought her younger than the sixty vears she was. In fact, this morning Hildy herself felt so new, she was almost reborn. She had a spring to her step, and she breathed in the fresh, clean air with new savor. She enjoyed the familiarity of Main Street even though she saw it now with greater clarity and observation than before. Hildy slowed her step as she rounded the corner to the Elite Beauty Salon. She paused for a moment before the window and peered in at the neat row of hair dryers. It was still early and no one as yet sat under them. 'They reminded her of cocoons — a shell 656 — e " Dorothea J. Neilson \ into which something unlovely withdrew only to emerge later much improved. 'Then she entered the shop and stepped up to the desk. "Good morning. I'm Hildy Carlson. You have a nine o'clock appointment for me." Looking at her appointment pad and up at Hildy, the receptionist smiled. "Yes, we do — it's a re styling job, isn't it?" Hildy nodded in agreement and smiled back. "Jane, your nine o'clock appointment is here," called the receptionist. Hildy waited until Jane appeared and was pleased to find that she looked to be an agreeable young lady. She followed Jane to her booth and sat down in the chair that was held out for her in front of the vanity table.. "You wished to have your hair restyled, Mrs. Carlson. Is there any- thing particular you have in mind?" "Well, not exactly," hesitated Hildy. "But I do want it arranged so that Ill be able to dress it myself." 'The firm determination was back again as soon as she had spoken. "You see, I'm somewhat troubled with arthritis in my shoulder and find it difficult to hold my arms up to set my hair. A neighbor has been doing it in pin curls for me for years, but I'd like to relieve her of this job, so if you could style it so I could." While Hildy had been speaking, Jane had been studying her face and her hair, and now she interrupted, "There are lots of ladies in your predicament, Mrs. Carlson, and I know just how we can help you. You have lovely thick hair, and there is also a nice natural wave to it. J think we can cut and style it for you so that a few wave clips will be all you will need to set it with. I really believe you'll be quite pleased with the results. Does that sound all night?" "That sounds just wonderful. I really do want to be able to fix it myself." While the work was in progress, Hildy had time to reflect on the chain of circumstances that brought her to the beauty shop. It had begun years ago. She supposed it really began with George's illness. He was sick for so long before he died that she had lost most of her optimism and high spirits in those sad years. When her husband finally died, she felt as though she, too, was no longer alive, but the necessity of making a home for her two sons transcended the grief, and Hildy did what she had to do to THE RESTYLING keep the httle family together. Uncle Leo was so good to help them and the Church had given a helping hand, too. When the boys were able they had worked hard, unselfish of their own desires. 'Their mother always came first. Hildy had. Been so proud of them — she still was! And so it went through the years, until the boys were now away from home — George, Jr. Was married and in college, and Mike was in Europe with the army, but they still faithfully sent her money each month for her needs. Hildy busied herself around the house and worked in her garden. Many said it was the prettiest in the neighborhood because of her artful color arrangement in placing the plants and flowers, but Hildy wasn't happy. Last Saturday while she was at Fay Ellis', as usual, getting her hair set, she had unburdened herself to Fay. Goodness knows, Fay had enough to think about with her five little ones and her husband gone so much of the time, but Hildy had to talk to someone. She had told Fay that she felt so purposeless and also rather hurt that George, Jr. And his Edie didn't come to visit more often. She knew how busy he was with school and all, and Edie working to help him through, but they really didn't live so many miles away. Fay was thoughtful as she set the neat rows of pin curls in Hildy's hair. Then Fay's brow furrowed. "Hildy, do you mind if I ask you a question?" Hildy felt a vague uneasiness. She knew how forthright Fay could be. "No, of course not." "What do you talk about when George and Edie are visiting?" "Why Il I don't know, nothing special." "Do you tell them how your shoulders hurt after you've worked in the garden" (Hildy's mouth began to open in surprise, but Fay went on), "and that your arthritis is acting up again, and that if only their father were still alive...?" Hildy's mouth opened and closed in surprise. "Do you?" Fay really wanted to know. "Why, yes, I guess I do... Sometimes." "Sometimes?" It was Fay again. "Well... But how did you...?" Fay broke in again, "Hildy, you and I have been neighbors for ten years. I guess I've heard the same thing quite often." "Oh!" Hildy felt crushed. "Now, don't go and feel hurt. I love you, you know, and really want you to be happy." Fay was now in her lecturing position, one hand on her hip, the other hand, holding the comb, was pointed directly at her, the comb like a great white extension of the pointed finger. Hildy was glad to know Fay loved her. It helped. Fay went on, "Honestly, now, Hildy Carlson, you could do so much more with your life. Here you are only sixty" (Fay was young and she said sixty as though she thought that was still young, too) "and you act like you're an old, old lady! What do you do with your talents?" "I don't have any talents," said Hildy quietly. "Oh, bosh. Everybody does. They may be underdeveloped, but they are there. You have a good sense 658 of balance and color. How many times has Ferris Crowther tried to get you to go to that community art class with him?" (Hildy remained silent, as she knew Fay well enough not to interrupt her while she was getting her mind spoken.) "He's lonely just the way you are since his wife died, and he's such a fine man.' (Hildy silently agreed to that point. Ferris was a very fine man.) "And, furthermore, what have you done to help yourself? 'There is Edie, working to put George, Jr. Through college and to send you some money 1" each month, and you let them! Tus time Hildy spoke up, "But, Fay, what could I do, at my age, and with no formal training?" "You'd find loads of things to do once you got started on the possibilities, and you know what —. Il bet you'd feel lots better, too — being busy keeps your mind off of lots of things, including discomfort." Apparently Fay was finished for the moment because she again began working on the pin curls. Hildy was glad she had the back of her head to Fay. She wouldn't want her to see the hurt in her eyes and the tears that wanted to come. A painful silence followed before Fay broke it. "Hildy, you're not hurt, are you?" Hildy tried to explain with conviction, "No... I'm just thinking, Fay." When the hair dressing was finished, Fay had said, "Just a minute, Hildy, I want to get you something." She returned with a recent issue of a national magazine. "There are some very interesting things in this issue. Perhaps you'd enjoy reading them." They parted at the door, Fay saying cheerily, "See you in the morning, about eight." (That was when Fay would comb out and arrange her hair for church.) Hildy's steps were leaden as she walked home. Too upset by their conversation to eat supper, she had gone immediately to bed, taking the proferred magazine with her. Scanning the table of contents, one listing an article on geriatrics caught her attention and she turned to it. Many of the words blurred before her eyes as she was still thinking about her conversation with Fay, but some of the phrases stood out from the pages as if they had been outlined in bold type... "preoccupied with their aches and pains. Not prepared for old age allowing minds to become stagnant." Was she like that? Did her children feel like that about her? Hildy tossed in her bed restlessly, examining her thoughts. Stagnant. A terrible word. Everybody knew what a stagnant pond was like — its inhabitants not much _ appreciated. Could a mind become like that, truly? Such a contrast to the clear crystal stream where fish darted like quicksilver arrows in its ripples. Work. The Church leaders often said something about re-enthroning work, and idleness being a curse. Was it hers? Self-respect. Independence. Had she been, or was she like these people she had read about? Was Fay right? I want to be happy, thought Hildy, I want to be respected, useful, giving of myself, but how... How? Hildy ached THE RESTYLING — not with pain this night, but with regret for the wasted years of the past that could have been better — with wanting for greater personal happiness. Finally, still unable to sleep, Hildy had crawled out of bed again and down on her knees. "Heavenly Father, please help me. Show me the way to brighter horizons...." Sleep came easier after that, and in the morning she had made the beauty appointment first thing. Now she was brought up quickly to the present by Jane's query, "Mrs. Carlson, how about a slight blue rinse to your hair? It would give the gray some lovely highlights." Well, why not? This was going to be the new Hildy. "Yes, I think that would be very nice." The hair styling completed, Hildy was amazed and pleased with the results. It was very becoming and she knew she could do it herself at home almost as well. Wouldn't Fay be surprised? Hildy spied Bishop Jenkins as she was going down the block on her way home. She hurried her step in order to catch up with him. "Bishop!" PO, Sister Carlson, I almost didn't recognize you. How good of you to stop me." "Bishop, I've heard there is a real shortage of Primary teachers. I know I'm not as young as most of them are, but would you... Do you think I could be considered for a job in the Primary?" "Why, Sister Black will be delighted to hear about this. I'm sure you will be hearing from us. Thank you so much for volunteering." Hildy hurried home, her heart already lighter. She proceeded to the next step of the plan she had worked out in her turmoil two nights before. She dialed Betty Williams' home. Betty was a recent widow with a three-year-old child. She had been looking for weeks for someone to care for little Carol so she could go to work part time to help to support them. "Betty, this is Hildy Carlson. Have you found anyone yet to tend Carol while you work?" "No. And there is a job opening with good pay that I can qualify for. I'm almost desperate. Do you know of anyone?" "Yes. Hildy Carlson!" "You? Why I thought your arthritis... Would you really? I'd be so relieved to have Carol with someone like you." "It's all settled then. You go ahead and get your job and let me know the arrangements when you're ready." As she hung up, Hildy again experienced the glow that came from making someone else glad. She wouldn't earn a great deal, but it would certainly help, and she planned to take some of her handiwork down to the Craft Shop to see if they would buy it. People were always saying that Hildy Carlson did beautiful work. Perhaps the people at the Craft Shop would think so, too. Wouldn't George, Jr. And Edie be surprised one of these days when she returned their check? Two days ago Hildy had wondered if Fay really did love her — after all, that was quite a Scotch blessing she had received! Now she knew Fay had meant what she said, 660 or she wouldn't have wanted to help, and she had helped! Hildy decided it was a good time to relax, now that her hair was done and the arrangements made with Betty Williams. She went out on the lawn and surveyed her little domain. She really did have a nice home and yard. 'Today she saw this more clearly than ever before and yet nothing had really changed. "No, there's where you're wrong, Hildy," she told herself. "You have changed." 'The air smelled so good, Hildy stood straighter to breathe more deeply. H'mmm. Had her shoulders ached yet today? She had to admit she really hadn't noticed. Too busy so far. Ferris Crowther just then came down the walk and studied _ her. "Well, Hildy, what have you done to yourself? You look different today." "It's my hair. Do you approve?" "TH say. Listen, I'm going to town in a few minutes. Is there anything you need to get? You're welcome to ride along." "No, thank you." Hildy stopped short. "Wait! Yes, there is! I do believe I'd like to try painting — just for fun — to see if I can mix colors on paper as well as in my garden. Would you be willing to help me pick out some beginners' supplies?" Ferris Crowther said, "I'd be delighted. You'll love painting. A whole new horizon will open up to you." Hildy thought happily, as she went into the house for her purse, it already has — that brighter horizon I prayed for. That was quite a restyling I got! IMizs. ETHEL PERCY ANDRUS, President of the National Retired Teachers Association and the American Association of Retired Persons, in June at an area conference in Salt Lake City, Utah, presented a citation for "significant and valued contributions to the enrichment of retirement living," to the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. President Belle S. Spafford received the citation for Relief Society. In addressing the conference, Mrs. Andrus declared that older people should be recognized as constructive citizens who have much experience, knowledge, and pioneering spirit to give to their communities. A RECENT IssuE of the Saturday Review devoted a special section to "The Education of Women," with articles by a number of male and female educators. Statistically it was noted that women in the United States receive thirty-six per cent of all bachelor's and first professional degrees, thirty-one per cent of all master's degrees, and eleven per cent of all Ph. D. Degrees. However, it was pointed out, only six per cent of the medical doctors in the country are women, and two and one-half per cent of the qualified lawyers are women. This is a much lower percentage than the ratios of women doctors and lawyers in Canada and several European countries. Mirs. LEONA HUBER, Mesa, Arizona, received the "Mesa Artist of the Year" award in . Mrs. Huber is a noted violinist and a former member of the Women's Symphony Orchestra of Los Angeles, California. Her musical activities in Mesa have included participation in organizing a musicians' Club, being a partner in a music store, and playing violin solos for church meetings, community events, and wedding receptions. Mrs. Huber is a Latter-day Saint, and her string ensemble has played over the Church radio program in Phoenix for over two years. IRITA VAN DOREN, eminent literary critic, who has been editor of the New York Herald Tribune section on Books, since 1926, has now become Editor Emeritus, and has joined the publishing firm of William Morrow and Company as editorial consultant, where she will continue her lifetime role of encouraging good writing and good writers. EDITORIAL (\ Understanding } Fteart ¢ cay FOND dream of childhood is to be allowed to have one wish granted. Aladdin and his wonderful lamp and fairy tales of many other countries hold forth this tantalizing promise. But one learns that care must be exercised in making the wish, for the fisherman's wife was so dissatisfied and greedy that after her wishes were granted she ended up with just what she had in the beginning. Holy Writ teaches a lesson to everyone who would have one wish granted. In a dream Solomon was asked the gift he would seek from the Lord. The wish he made indicates that he had evaluated his strengths and weaknesses. He had carefuly considered his position as the new king of the numberless people making up the kingdom his father David had left him. As Solomon began to state his wish to the Lord, he first expressed his filial piety, and then pleaded with the Lord, "Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge the people, that I may discern between good and bad." Ser)" C, Sharp, Fira! Counseic e W. Madsen, Second Ceunselo! Potker. Secretary-Trestsurer This wish was one of selflessness, one to help Solomon assist others in truth. We read "the speech pleased the Lord," and he gave to Solomon, in addition to a wise and understanding heart, riches and honor and long life if he would walk in the path of the Lord, all of which wishes Solomon had not asked for himself. A wish cherished by a Latter-day Saint mother would also be to have an understanding heart to guide her in the rearing of her children — to see below the surface of their words and actions, to know when apparent tebelliousness needs curbing and when it manifests a hurt within the child which cries out for an extension of love and appreciation and encouragement. An understanding heart will lighten the service of a Relief Society officer who will overlook any weaknesses and failings of those whom she is called to serve, and who will appreciate their strengths and struggles instead. An understanding heart will encourage a Relief Society sister to be a better neighbor, to dismiss hurt feelings, to look for the good and never expose the weakness of another. Christ possesses the perfect understanding heart. In his ministry he condemned the evil but not the sinner, holding forth forgiveness through repentance. When Peter denied knowing the Christ, the account reads, "And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter." What a depth of love and sorrow and understanding must have been in that glance, for the account continues, "And Peter went out, and wept bitterly." How can a Latter-day Saint woman gain an understanding heart? Solomon showed forth humility, prayer, and a desire to serve. He "loved the Lord." He said, "I am but a little child: I know not how to go out or come in." 'Too often today one does not know "how to go out or come in.' An open mind, a prayerful spirit, humility, patience, and love are all to be found in an understanding heart — a precious gift of the Lord to the dedicated seeker. —M. C. S.