VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — |) en SP ene 'olin | PA pantie oct al nis 7O Live By rrom the Woctrine ang "Covenants Message 51 — "Continue in Patience Until Ye Are Perfected" (D & C 67:13). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, Objective: To teach the value of continuous patience in striving for perfection. In his incomparable Sermon on the Mount, the Savior gave to us a great yet also a most difficult commandment to obey. He said, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48). Ever since that time, some 2,000 years ago, conscientious followers of the Lord have been concerned about this commandment and have wondered if it is possible for imperfect human beings to become as perfect as their Father in heaven. One answer which has been given to this ageold question is, that so long as one is doing everything possible to become perfect he is on the road to perfection and, therefore, doing all that he can to fulfill the Lord's commandment. Another answer to this question is found in this passage of the 67th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. 'The entire verse states, "Ye are not able to abide the presence of God now, neither the ministering of angels; wherefore, continue in patience until ye are perfected." The importance of exercising patience in reaching perfection is also stated by the great apostle Peter when he, in his second epistle to the saints of 704 his day, admonished them to "add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness" (2 Peter 1:5-6). Could it be, then, that if we diligently practice the qualities which incorporate the attribute of patience we may arrive at perfection? What are these qualities? Some of the more important of these are gentleness, calmness, self-control, long-suffering. Briefly let us consider each of these as they relate to patience. Gentleness is a basic characteristic of patience. Patient people are gentle, understanding, thoughtful, and kind. When we practice these traits we exhibit patience. Calmness is another characteristic which incorporates patience. A calm person is one who bears the everyday small trials and annoyances quietly and with equanimity. Experience in meeting these small problems this way builds strength to meet and handle the big problems when they come along. All of us can practice this characteristic of patience. Self-Control is one of the most important aspects of patience. One cannot control others until first he controls himself. Self-control means controlling our emotions, our angers, and our appetites. Self-control means self-restraint. Long-suffering is another attribute of patience. Even the most tranquil life must meet disappointments, discouragements, failures, and defeat. 'The ability to meet these in fine spirits, high courage and good humor is an important part of long-suffering. 'The courage to get up and try again when one has been knocked down and the ability to endure to the end are essential traits of patience. Individual patience has played an exceedingly important role in the history and development of the Church. This was particularly true of the pioneer trek westward when with all of their trials, tribulations, obstacles, and disappointments, the LESSON DEPARTMENT saints bore up patiently and made their triumphant entry into the Salt Lake Valley. During the depth of their discouragement, William R. Clayton composed the great immortal hymn: Come, come, ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear; But with joy wend your way. Though hard to you this journey may appear, Grace shall be as your day. "Tis better far for us to strive. Our useless cares from us to drive; Do this, and joy your hearts will swell — All is well! All is well! Someone has wisely said, '""Patience strengthens the spirit, sweetens the temper, stifles anger, extinguishes envy, subdues pride, bridles the tongue, restrains the hand" (Horn, Youthful Quotes, page 453). "Patience is the soul of peace. Of all of the virtues it is the nearest kin to heaven; it makes men look like gods."