Editorial
======================================================================

EDITORIAL  Motto Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells --.... President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams..... First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith...... Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman..... General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates..... Recording Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey....... Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Ida Y. Beatie Mrs. Phoebe B. Dusenberry Miss Edna May Davis Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor SusA Young Gates Business Manager. . - - . . Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...... Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VI. FEBRUARY, 1919. No. 2. OUR GENERAL PRESIDENT This month President, Emmeline B. Wells, will be ninety and one years old. We cannot allow this notable occasion to pass without laying at the feet of our President a rose of sweet remembrance. We voice the sentiments of the General Board of this Society, of each Stake Board, and of every member thereof, in congratulating our President on this happy and auspicious occasion. We honor President Wells, not only because of her extremely long and constantly active service, great as that may be; nor because of her gifted mind, her facile pen, her generosity and her sympathy with womanhood everywhere; her unselfish devotion to children, and to friends; her integrity to the truth, her love of the gospel, her loyalty to the presiding priesthood; all these merit and claim our respect and reverence; but, beyond this, and with all this, there lies another potent reason why we honor our leader. God and his servants chose her out of all EDITORIAL. 113 the women of this Church to be the Elect Lady. And, living worthy of this great calling, she commands our respect and reverence. That is a keynote principle. Not persons, not individuals, but causes. Great aims, noble objects, these must form the ultimate elements of our thoughts and aspirations. Yet, we may well stop by the wayside occasionally on our difficult daily climb, and salute the leaders of our cause, the banner-bearers of our Society. They have not chosen themselves, but have been called by inspiration, and set apart by the presiding authority. She has been in the Church 77 years on her birthday this year. That, too, is one of the lessons we learn from daily association with our President; reverence and obedience to proper authority. She is quick to hear the whisper of the Good Shepherd's voice, and her swift feet run out to meet and worship the Lord and to obey her leaders. In this we shall do well to consider her example. May the peace she has sought, the comfort she has earned, the devotion she has desired, veil and enshroud her remaining days and years. And may the light of her quick intellect remain undimmed, shining out from the windows of her soul to the end. THE NEW APOSTLE, MELVIN J. BALLARD. The appointment of Elder Melvin J. Ballard to the apostleship undoubtedly will meet with universal approval throughout the Church. Elder Ballard is a native of Logan, and is the son of Henry and Margaret McNeal Ballard. As a youth and a man, he was industrious and successful. Popular and magnetic, capable and energetic, he moved always in a circle of friends. Gifted with an extremely beautiful voice, his welcome was assured in any assembly. He has filled many positions of responsibility in a civil, religious and economic way in his town and stake; and when he was called to preside over the Northwestern States Mission, in 1909, his absence was felt in Logan and Cache stake. He is greatly beloved by elders, Saints and converts in the Northwestern States Mission, and his presence and services in that mission will be greatly missed. His eloquence and simple, modest dignity make him an ideal preacher and exhorter. Those who heard him speak in the recent conferences of the Church will not soon forget his moving appeals and his enlightening utterances. The work of the Lord will be advanced through the ministry of this good and gifted man. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in March. THE MINISTRATIONS OF THE PRINCE OF PEACE TO THE PEOPLE OF THIS CONTINENT. After the terrors of thunder and lightning and earthquake had subsided, Jesus came in the midst of his people and began to feed them with the bread of life. He taught them many important doctrines, but finally he perceived that they needed a period of rest and preparation of spirit before he could venture further with his instructions. Nevertheless, as he gazed upon them and witnessed their tears, his bowels were filled with compassion, and he felt for them infinite mercy, yea, their mute appeals so touched him that he said: "Have ye any that are sick among you, bring them hither? Have ye any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or leprous, or that are withered, or that are deaf, or that are afflicted in any manner? bring them hither, and I will heal them, for I have compassion upon you; my bowels are full with mercy; "For I perceive that ye desire that I should show unto you what I have done unto your brethren at Jerusalem, for I see that your faith is sufficient that I should heal you. "And it came to pass that when he had thus spoken, all the multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick, and their afflicted, and their lame, and with their blind, and with their dumb, and with all they that were afflicted in any manner; and he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto him." Continuing, in the words of the Story of the Book of Mormon: "And they did all, both they who had been healed and they who were whole, bowed at his feet and did worship him; and GUIDE LESSONS. 115 as many as could come for the multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch that they did bathe his feet with their tears." Surely this was a glorious day for the people of this continent. Surely it was a day towards which the inhabitants of this earth might truly yearn. Think of our world today with its tens of thousands of halt, and lame, and blind; a rough estimate of the fatalities in the late war is ten million, and the wounded will, in all probability, equal or surpass this estimate. Think of all the boasted skill of the twentieth century striving to make the lame to walk and the blind to see after the horrors of war. Think of the French, whose achievement has been so widely proclaimed, sitting in their art studios, day after day, striving to make the soldier made unsightly and repellent by the ravages of war, comely and natural. This they seek to do by means of a thin flesh colored mask, which attempts to imitate the man's photograph when he was whole and sound. Call to mind the hundreds and thousands whom shell shock has made deaf, and those whose blindness is beyond that of the most skilled physician, and others whose sovereign reason is like sweet bells jangled out of tune. Think of us now in the clutches of an epidemic that is baffling the medical profession, and making orphans of hundreds and thousands of children. It is only by keeping in mind our own very sorry plight that we realize the difference in these two pictures. In the one we have the Savior of the world standing in the midst of his people, with his soul full of love and his bowels full of compassion, saying, "I perceive that your faith is sufficient, bring unto me all that are lame, and halt, and blind, and I will heal them;" and they brought all their sick and afflicted and every one was made whole. On the other hand we have a world strong in its own strength, wise in its own conceit, self-seeking and unlovely in many of its practices, reaping according to that which it has sown. Note the utter completeness of the work of the Great Healer. He did not make wooden legs for the lame, nor amputate the hands of those whose hands were withered, or make masks for those whose faces bore unsightly scars; nor did He say, Take away your lepers, your blind and insane, for I can do nothing for them; but all their sick were made whole. In the light of this knowledge may we not rejoice and be made glad that he has promised to come again with healing in his wings? Then he commanded them to bring their little children and place them near him; after they had complied with his request, 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. he commanded them to kneel, and when they had knelt he prayed in their midst, and the multitude bore record of this prayer and this is the record they bore: that "the eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father; "And no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father." And then Jesus arose and bade the multitude arise, and he wept for joy. Afterwards He blessed their children; but that story is part of another lesson. What we wish to draw special attention to is their record in relation to His marvelous prayer, the power of which is beyond mortal comprehension. PROBLEMS AND QUESTIONS. 1. After the terrors of thunder and lightning had passed, what did Christ do in the midst of his people? 2. What does Christ say about "other sheep," in III Nephi 16? 3. What did Jesus teach the people in relation to the sacrament? III Nephi 18. 4. In III Nephi 21, Jesus gave instructions concerning the naming of the Church. What did he tell the people in relation to this matter? 5. What mighty works did Jesus perform among this people, like unto the mighty works He performed among the Jews at Jerusalem? 6. Were any afflicted exempt from his ministrations? Compare the divine way of overcoming sickness with the human way. 7. After commanding the little children to be brought unto him, what did Jesus command the people to do? What did he himself do? 8. What have the people told us in relation to this prayer? 9. Are their comments upon this prayer what we should naturally expect? Why? GUIDE LESSONS. 117 LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in March. LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in March. THE ORIGIN OF ANGLO-SAXON SURNAMES. Teacher's Outlines. Teutonic names were generally compound words. (Illustrations). Name customs were sometimes founded on social habits and religious impulses by Saxons. Anglo-Saxons were warriors and pagans. Children were named for their pagan deities. Children were often surnamed from father's trade. Anglo-Saxon names were included in William's survey recorded in Domesday. These were the small land-holders. The upper class names there were all Normans. LESSON STATEMENT. We learned in our history lessons that Great Britain was inhabited first by semi-savages  with the Britons. They worshiped Nature and natural phenomena and built homes in the forests and woods. The Celts, who were almost as uncivilized as the Britons came into Ireland and then over into Scotland and Wales particularly, conquering the Britons. Welsh people, however, claim descent from the original Britons. The Irish and Scotch came from the Celts. Then came the Teutonic tribes of Angles and Saxons and they conquered and settled up England driving the Britons into the Welsh mountains and keeping the Celts confined in Scotland and Ireland for some centuries. Neither the Britons nor Celts built cities or even villages. They lived in the most primitive huts and dugouts, fighting each other and living by hunting and fishing. When the Anglo-Saxons came in they grouped themselves in 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. little villages and founded a primitive sort of government, patterned after the Teutonic customs of their Scandinavian forefathers. Now when men lived apart from each other it mattered little what names they chose for themselves and their scattered families and friends, but just as soon as a community gathers into village life it is necessary to select names for children (provided they are to be called by only one name), which shall not conflict with the names given to others in the village, else confusion arises when two or more have the same name. The Anglo-Saxons were pagans. They worshiped Thor who was the Scandinavian god of war, thunder, and agriculture, the benefactor of men; and Woden or Odin, chief of the gods, the god of war and founder of art and culture; and Frigga, the goddess of marriage, from whom Friday is named  wife of Odin; or Frey, the son of Njord, the god of rain and sunshine; and specifically of fruitfulness and prosperity; or Freya, the goddess of love, daughter of Njord and sister of Frey. They named their children very frequently after the deities which they worshiped and sometimes they would add an epithet to the name, like ThorWold; Thor is the god of war, thunder and agriculture, the benefactor of men, and Wold is a down or forest. The Anglo-Saxons sometimes named their children because of some peculiar circumstance at birth or some peculiarity of the child, or from complexion or characteristic. Names are frequently changed too. Children are sometimes named from the father's trade. They were also sometimes given nicknames. They were often given the father's name as a surname, but no Anglo-Saxon child had a son with it, we understand the term. After several centuries the Celts in Scotland, who were now called Picts and Scots, made a great deal of warfare and trouble for the Anglo-Saxons; and too the Danes and Norsemen came over from Scandinavia in great numbers in their piratical boats and the Anglo-Saxons became alarmed for their final safety. So they invited another branch of their race called the Norsemen to come over and help them conquer the Danes and Scots. Thus it was that the Norman king William came over in 1066 and he conquered the whole lot of them and remained in England with the title of William the Conqueror. QUESTIONS. Who were the first people in Great Britain? Where did the Celts come from? Where did they settle in Great Britain? GUIDE LESSONS. 119 Who were the Anglo-Saxons? Where did they come from? What different habits had they from the Britons? How did the Anglo-Saxons give names to their children? Name some of the Anglo-Saxon pagan deities. Who were the Normans? Where did they live Tell what you know about William the Conqueror. Note.  Let the class discover as many Anglo-Saxon personal names and surnames as they can. Extend the inquiry into the ward and classify Anglo-Saxon personal names and surnames, giving their definition. LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in March. PHASES OF GROWTH AND THEIR CHARACTERISTICS Most people are so accustomed to see their children grow that they do not trouble themselves with the details of the process, nor consider in what way this may be promoted or retarded. Growth in human life is the series of changes associated with increase in number, size, and complexity of the different parts of the body, and our knowledge of growth should include information relating to the varying development of all the organs, the significant changes in their mode of carrying on their work from birth to old age, the possible deviations from the normal, and the degree of resistance to the various diseases peculiar to the characteristics of different age periods. Mental growth continues to increase in complexity through life, actual physical growth ceases at about the twenty-fifth year; though slow growth in height continues in some individuals until thirty; and increase in chest girth goes on until fifty. During the first seven years, child development takes place most obviously in respect of size; while later, it seems to be more directly associated with the elaboration, or increase in the complexity of the tissues thus growth may be said to have a two-fold character: (1) increase in size and substance; and (2) development of capacity to perform more complicated activities. Children may normally vary one to two years from the average, and height especially is always influenced by race and family predisposition. Until recent times, the opinion was held that 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. when rapid growth of body ceased for a time, the child's mind seemed to expand more quickly, though more recent authorities affirm that increase in height, weight, strength and mental development coincide; as, for instance, the child tall for its age is also more mentally proficient and suffers if deprived of suitable educational opportunity. Different parts of the body do not grow in the same time nor in the same proportion; for example, the mass of the brain increases from two to three fold in the first year of life; whereas, there is an increase of but 10 per cent in the second year, and the actual size of the brain is little increased after the eighth year. The annual growth in size of the heart is about 8 per cent between seven and fourteen, but in the year of puberty, it is 20 per cent. Rate of growth can be computed by three methods: chronological, physiological, and psychological. To an increasing degree, judgment of a child's progress by the actual years it has lived is giving place to the much more accurate estimate based upon the stage of physiological development it has reached. Differences in physiological age may amount to as much as three years among a group of children all of the same chronological age; hence the need for varying treatment of children who are too liable to be all placed in the same class. Physiological age refers to the relative development of organs, bones, weight, height, sex maturity, etc.; psychological age, to mental ability and maturity. There is reason to believe that growth of all kinds follows certain laws, though these are not as yet thoroughly understood. They have, however, a rhythmic tendency: that is to say, we observe periodic alternations of greater or less activity  thus growth in weight is more marked in the fall; growth in height more noticeable in the spring. Growth in weight is more variable than growth in height, and is much affected by the health and nurture of the child. The weight at a given age may be above the average and yet the child may be flabby, anaemic, and of poor constitution. However, one or all forms of normal growth may be retarded, and often checked by illness, repressive discipline, unsuitable diet, unsanitary environment, loss of sleep, premature responsibility, or excessive pampering. A comparison of the growth curves for girls and boys shows considerable difference between the sexes. Girls reach their maximum adolescent rate about three years earlier than boys. Although the transition from one stage to another in the different periods of growth is very gradual, certain marked characteristics admit of the following classifications: (1) Prenatal, or a period of very rapid growth, during which all the organs are formed but the development is immature, to which fact is due the GUIDE LESSONS. 121 helplessness and plasticity of a baby at birth. During the nine months preceding birth, weight increases nearly a billion fold and the ovum develops from a diameter of 1-125 of an inch to a length of twenty-one inches. (2) Infancy is also a period of extreme rapidity but relative simplicity of growth. Digestive system is the weakest link in an infant's chain of life, hence the great importance of maternal feeding. Infantile powers are chiefly receptive and obviously immature, so that this might be described as a vegetative period, during which body and mind are nourished and strengthened under the influence of warmth, quiet, absolute regularity, suitable food and adequate exercise (taken by the infant on its mother's knee during its daily toilet). (3) Early childhood is a stage characterized by restless activity, alternating with prolonged, profound sleep. Awakening curiosity demands the reasons why for all observations, associated with a vivid imagination, which finds difficulty in distinguishing fact from fancy. Much attention should be given to the formation of established habits in regularity of daily routine, and in the care of the body. Small children are very susceptible to infection, to which actual mental arrest may often be attributed. Mimicry is at its height, and life long habits are formed chiefly by the imitation of adult manners and standards. (4) Later childhood is the most active health period of life. The evidences of external growth are less obvious, but ability for muscular coordination has vastly increased. All forms of activity are desirable, such as, skipping, climbing, drawing, swimming, swinging, etc. A systematic education should be directed to the formation of good habits, to the training of eye and ear to observe accurately and cooperate with body and mind, rather than to exaggerated reliance upon the printed page. During the period of second dentition there is often a temporary "fall back" due to difficulty of mastication and instability from rapid brain and muscle development, etc. This is sometimes called by doctors the "fatigue period." The characteristics of adolescence will follow in a later lesson. Suitable, regular, well masticated food; abundant sleep under good but not self-indulgent conditions, scrupulous cleanliness, adequate clothing; sufficient exercise; joy and pride in work  these constitute the hygienic creed of youth during its apprenticeship to life. Why then is the world filled with delicate people, or with those defective in some form or other of physical or mental development? Because of the failure to recognize how variable are conditions at every phase of growth, and that the hours of sleep, the quality and quantity of food, the kind and duration of exercise, even the form of play  all demand adjustment as the child passes 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. from infancy to adolescence. The essential study might be made from books, but there must be careful regulation of practice accompanied by the spirit of devotion, willing to make personal sacrifices for the child's needs. There must also be a revision of many false standards which, for example set care of the house above care of the child. REFERENCES. Child Care  The Preschool Age; Infant Care, Series 2. By Mrs. Max West, U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Wash., D. C. Child Life. By Alice Ravenhill, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. The Hygiene of a Child. By Lewis Terman. Houghton Mifflin Co., Chicago, Ill. The Individual in the Making. By E. Kirkpatrick. Houghton Mifflin Co., Chicago, Ill. QUESTIONS. 1. What is growth? 2. What are its characteristics? 3. What is the usual division of its phases, and why? 4. What difficulties are there in meeting the apparently simple requirements of childhood? 5. Give illustrations of how these requirements vary at different age periods. 6. By what influences is growth most affected? NOTICE TO GENEALOGICAL WORKERS. Now that our meetings are discontinued once more, we suggest to the sisters everywhere to take up a detailed labor in the genealogy of the family, both for the husband's and the wife's lines. Make out your living records to the latest generation. Then make a card index of the names. Next, get out all the family temple records, and see that every name is rightly written and all possible work done. Write to relatives and to the Genealogical Society of Utah for more data; write to parish clerks and to old friends for further information. Sisters, spend a little time daily making up good and suitable temple clothing. Any and all such labors will be both profitable and pleasant. Let us Plant a Garden Eastward from Eden. Morag. The words have magic in their sound, a magic which can hardly be explained. The instinct to work in the soil is an inherited one, for are we not, one and all, descendants of the original tiller of the soil? We read: "The Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden, * * * and the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to dress it and keep it." Gardening is therefore the oldest profession in the world. We emerge from the mud-pie stage of childhood only to learn to make more beautiful mud pies with frostings of perfumed color, and these we call garden. One flower lover says, "God breathed the breath of life into the soil, and it smiled back at its Creator in the form of a flower." The making of a garden is much like the formation of character; the loveliest mature characters are often the results of earlier mistakes. The fact that the garden is a matter of growth makes it worth while, and for every moment spent in gardening, there are many compensations. To be able to produce, by our own physical efforts, so much beauty to feed the soul, and all the vegetables and fruit to feed the body, would seem the natural ideal of living. And it is quite possible for us to reach this ideal, even if we only do it as a side issue or recreation from our real life work. We can do, in a garden, the thing for which we were intended  create beauty, find health and happiness, have joy. Flowers bring consolation; this is the secret of their hold on mankind. They exhale peace as they breathe perfume. The greatest gift of a garden is the restoration of the five senses. The air is attuned to the varying tones of bird melody, the chirp of the insect and the hum of the bee. The eye can feast on all the wealth of color and form in all the glorious beauty of God's great out-of-doors. The delicacy of touch comes gradually by tending injured birdlings, by the handling of fragile, infant plants, and acquaintance with tiny seeds and various leaf textures, while the sense of taste is gratified by a diet of fresh, home-grown, unwilted vegetables and the fruits in their season, and to the nose is revealed all the secrets of earth-incense, the whole gamut of flower perfume. 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. No one can remain evil and associate daily with flowers, for flowers have such an Irish way, with their "blarney" of beauty, of leading one's thoughts to the simple, real and abiding things of life. Once a gardener, always a gardener, for there is no happier creature in the world than the soil and flower lover. So whether the owner of vast acres, a small cottage home, a city back yard, or even a sunny porch and some broad window sills  let's make a garden. FEBRUARY GARDEN NOTES. During this month, plan your garden on paper, send for some seed catalogues, carefully select the seed desired, and send for it while the stocks are fresh, and the seed man has plenty of time to attend to your order; if you wait until late March or April you may be disappointed, as stocks will be depleted and you may have to take substitutes or inferior seeds. Towards the end of the month the hot-bed should be made ready and the seeds planted. Plant the seeds about six weeks before the end of the frost time, for if sown earlier the plants grow so tall and spindling, and are too weak to be a perfect success. Sow as many flower seeds, perennial and annual, as you have room for. On very cold nights cover the frames with an old quilt or some sacks. Place a small stone under one of the sacks every day, for an hour or so, that the plants may receive ventilation, and on warm, sunny days give the little plants a regular airing. Never leave the glass up later than 4 p. m., even in late April. Sprinkle with luke-warm water whenever the soil seems drying, using a sprinkling-can with fine nozzle. Keep the soil loose and free from weeds. Some favorite flowers are coreopsis (annual and perennial), nicotiana, petunias, phlox, drummondi, snapdragons, delphiniums, hardy phlox, canterbury bells, gypsophila (baby's breath), cosmos, oriental poppies. During February, bring the potted bulbs, hyacinths, lilies, narcissi, tulips, etc, from the cellar, and bring gradually to the light. In a few weeks these will burst into gorgeous beauty in the window garden. Take good care of plants received on Valentine day; do not be disappointed if they lose a few leaves or flowers  the transition from the moist, humid air of the greenhouse to the dry, hot air of our furnace-heated homes is not accomplished without some loss of foliage. Water regularly, but not profusely. If used as table decorations, place in a sunny window occasionally. Place all house plants in kitchen sink or bathtub and spray foliage with luke-warm water about once in two weeks during the winter. Isolate all plants infected with green lice, aphis, red spider. If you cannot eradicate these pests with soapsuds or tobacco solution, it is better to discard the infected plant entirely. Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS KEISTER Our Ladies' Tailoring College Simplified System of Cutting, Fitting, DRESSMAKING AND TAILORING Will give you an occupation or fit you for home duties in that line. Information Free. Visitors Welcome 291 Center Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH IAN ELECTRIC VACUUM CLEANER MAKES A VERY NICE CHRISTMAS PRESENT LET EARDLEY BROS. DO IT 31 East First South Salt Lake City, Utah STOMACH TROUBLES A SPECIALTY Free Consultation And Examination GREENHALGH REMEDY CO., Inc. Office Phone Was. 5394 Residence Phone Hyl. 950J 28 EAST FOURTH SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDSEN'S 249 MAIN STREET "Good Service and Better Work Because of Better Equipment" For Distinctive Work PHONE HY. 57 MAIL ORDERS SOLICITED 902 Jefferson Street Salt Lake City THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah A NEW BOOK ON GOSPEL DOCTRINE "THE WAY OF ETERNAL LIFE" Written for Young People by BISHOP EDWIN F. PARRY Price, postpaid, 75c Send Orders to E. P. PARRY, JR. 217 Templeton Building Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY WASTE RUNS RIOT "The trouble with this house is" Your husband complains of the size of the Grocery Bill You just can't keep within your allowance You know you are wasting food but don't know how to stop it Take a Course in Household Management at the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE and select other vital work from the following list: Cooking House Furnishing Food Economics Home Construction and Sanitation Dietetics Dressmaking Nutrition Millinery Designing and Modeling Children's Diet Art Needlework Mothercraft Costume History and Design Home Nursing Textiles Write for the Beautiful Art Booklet issued every summer by the Institution. Send now and have your name listed to insure delivery. Address Desk E4, President's Office, UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah.