[Vol27 | February 1940 | Sequence: 00pb1 | Category: Article | Title: Louise Y. Robison Barker]
Louise  Y.  Robison 

The 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  XXVII 
FEBRUARY,  1940 
No.  2 
Louise  Y.  Robison 
General  President  of  the  National  Woman's  Relief  Society — 1928-1939 
By  Kate  M.  BarJcer 
4  4  TV  TOT  until  in  the  midst  of 
I  \  work  to  be  done,  a  man 
has  said,  'Tliis  is  my  task'; 
not  until  in  the  face  of  a  problem 
has  he  said,  'This  is  my  opportuni- 
ty'; not  until  in  the  great  field  of 
life,  which  is  the  6eld  of  religion, 
he  has  said,  'This  is  my  cause',  has 
his  soul  come  to  life." 
This  quotation  was  used  by  Sister 
Robison  in  one  of  her  lovely  talks 
at  a  Relief  Society  Conference,  and 
it  seems  to  me  the  words  "soul  come 
to  life"  describe  her  own  radiant 
personality.  Fortunate  are  the  peo- 
ple and  the  cause  who  have  such  a 
leader!  I  think  our  Father  in  Heav- 
en must  receive  a  great  deal  of  Joy 
from  a  worker  like  Louise  Y.  Rob- 
ison—one  who  accepts  a  call  to  ser- 
vice as  an  opportunity,  one  who  ac- 
cepts with  joy  and  puts  her  whole 
heart  and  soul  into  the  work,  one 
who  never  counts  the  time  or  effort 
required,  one  who  no  matter  how 
many  calls  are  made,  how  many 
meetings  there  are  to  attend,  re- 
sponds as  though  the  greatest  joy 
and  privilege  that  could  come  to 
one  has  come  to  her.  No  matter 
how  strenuous  the  day  has  been  or 
the  lateness  of  the  hour,  as  long  as 
there  is  a  service  to  render  she  nev- 
er seems  tired  but  answers  each  with 
head  high  and  eyes  sparkling  and 
with  a  sweet  humility  which  keeps 
her  very  close  to  her  Father  in  Heav- 
en. 
Her  absolute  testimony  of  the 
Gospel,  her  unusual  love  of  God  and 
of  fellow  men  have  made  her  a  lead- 
er whose  work  even  in  the  smallest 
detail  has  never  become  routine  but 
has  had  a  zest  to  it  that  has  at  all 
times  enabled  her  to  give  her  best. 
Sister  Robison  was  called  to  be 
General  President  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety just  prior  to  the  depression 
in  1929.  Since  then,  there  have 
been  so  many  aching  hearts,  so  many 
discouraged  mothers,  so  many  near 
the  breaking  point,  so  many  whose 
faith  has  begun  to  weaken.  Her 
office  in  the  General  Board  rooms 
has  been  a  home  where  all  who 
needed  her  could  come  for  help.  In- 
variably, those  who  came  to  open 
their  hearts  to  her  went  away  encour- 
aged, feeling  stronger  to  meet  their 
problems.  Truly,  she  has  "the  un- 
derstanding heart".  We  who  have 
worked  close  to  her  have  always  mar- 
veled at  her  vitality,  at  her  great 
spirituality,  her  great  strength,  and 
at  her  power  to  give  the  human 
touch. 
It  is  rare  when  one  who  has  such 
great  spiritual  sensitiveness  has  also 

78  -  FEBRUARY,  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
practical  strength,  which  makes  for 
capabihty  in  managing  the  business 
side  of  the  work.  The  office  work 
has  been  efficiently  conducted;  she 
was  manager  of  the  Burial  Clothes 
Department  and  of  the  Magazine, 
both  of  which  are  on  a  sound  basis 
financially.  All  has  been  so  quietly 
handled  that  those  who  came  to  the 
office  failed  to  realize  the  complexity 
of  the  business  phase  of  the  work 
and  felt,  rather,  the  predominance 
of  the  spiritual. 
Relief  Society  stake  presidents  and 
all  Relief  Society  workers  have  felt 
free  to  come  to  the  office  and  talk 
over  their  problems  with  Sister  Rob- 
ison,  knowing  that  they  would  be 
made  welcome  and  could  talk  with 
one  who  understood,  one  who  ap- 
preciated their  strength  and  their 
work.  Many  expressions  of  appreci- 
ation have  come  from  stake  presi- 
dents.   The  following  is  typical: 
"We  could  get  so  close  to  you 
and  feel  you  were  close  to  us." 
It  has  been  inspiring  to  see  the 
marvelous  response  of  all  the  stakes 
and  wards  to  her  leadership.  Noth- 
ing was  ever  asked  which  did  not 
receive  immediate  attention. 
TN  the  eleven  years  in  which  she 
has  been  leader,  great  progress  has 
been  made  in  the  Relief  Society  or- 
ganization. In  1933,  a  monument 
was  erected  in  Nauvoo,  commemor- 
ating the  organization  of  Relief  So- 
ciety there  in  1842.  This  was  a 
source  of  pleasure  to  Sister  Robi- 
son,  for  it  tied  our  organization  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  wife  and 
made  one  unit  of  Relief  Society 
from  the  beginning. 
When  in  Europe  in  1934  she  vis- 
ited some  of  the  missions,  and  with 
her  fine  sensitiveness  to  the  feelings 
of  others  she  sensed  their  feeling  of 
being  by  themselves,  far  away  from 
the  center  of  the  Church;  immedi- 
ately upon  her  return  she  began,  as 
she  always  did,  to  meet  the  need 
through  a  monthly  bulletin. 
That  all  the  women  of  the  Church 
should  have  opportunities  for  cul- 
ture and  service  has  always  been  the 
desire  of  Sister  Robison.  Early  in 
her  administration,  a  combined 
chorus  from  the  Salt  Lake  Stake  was 
organized  and  called  the  "Singing 
Mothers".  Today  in  practically 
every  mission  and  stake  in  the 
Church  there  are  groups  of  Singing 
Mothers. 
The  high  standard  of  the  educa- 
tional work  of  Relief  Society  has 
been  maintained,  with  emphasis 
being  placed  on  application  to  daily 
life.  Quoting  Sister  Robison:  "We 
must  be  sure  that  we  are  developing 
character  as  well  as  culture."  She 
believes  that  a  woman's  greatest  mis- 
sion is  that  of  mother  and  home- 
maker,  and  courses  in  home  beauti- 
fication,  sanitation,  nutrition  and 
child  guidance  have  been  stressed. 
In  1938,  a  new  course,  "Education 
For  Family  Life",  was  started.  Sister 
Robison  has  been  very  enthusiastic 
about  this  course. 
She  was  reared  in  an  ideal  Latter- 
day  Saint  home,  a  home  where  there 
was  love  and  tender  care,  where  a 
child  had  the  finest  of  opportunities 
for  spiritual  and  cultural  develop- 
ment. Her  mother,  Elizabeth  F. 
Yates,  was  for  twenty-one  years  pres- 
ident of  the  Millard  Stake  Relief 
Society.  Her  father,  Thomas  Yates, 
was  bishop  of  the  Scipio  Ward. 
She  is  the  mother  of  six  children: 
Dr.  Harold  Robison,  a  successful 
physician  of  Los  Angeles,  Rulon 
Robison,  one  of    the    outstanding 

RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE,  FEBRUARY  -  79 
musicians  of  Boston,  and  four  love- 
ly daughters,  Florence,  Winifred, 
Gladys  and  Dorothy,  who  are  mak- 
ing happy  homes  of  their  own.  The 
loyalty,  the  love,  the  companionship, 
the  enjoyment  of  each  other  which 
her  family  group  has  is  evidence  of 
the  home  life  she  and  Brother  Rob- 
ison  made  when  they  were  all  to- 
gether. 
The  welfare  work  and  Welfare 
Department  have  been  under  Sister 
Robison's  direct  supervision.  There 
has  been  maintained  the  closest  co- 
operation with  the  Public  Health 
Nurses,  the  State  Board  of  Health 
and  all  agencies  interested  in  wel- 
fare work.  The  Welfare  Department 
has  grown  and  is  giving  wonderful 
service  to  the  bishops  of  the  Salt 
Lake  Region. 
She  has  always  been  especially 
solicitous  for  little  children  and  the 
aged.  That  any  child  should  be 
cold  or  hungry  or  have  to  go  through 
life  handicapped  because  of  lack  of 
dental  or  medical  care  is  to  her  un- 
bearable. So  her  plea  has  always 
been  that  ward  presidents  increase 
their  charity  fund  and  meet  these 
needs,  that  if  they  could  not,  to  let 
her  know  and  somehow  the  needed 
money  would  be  secured. 
Because  of  her  great  interest  and 
outstanding  work,  when  the  State 
Board  of  Public  Welfare  was  organ- 
ized she  was  asked  by  Governor 
Blood  to  be  a  member  of  that  board. 
Following  is  an  expression  of  appre- 
ciation from  him: 
"When  the  State  Department  of  Pubhc 
Welfare  was  created,  it  appeared  both  de- 
sirable and  wise  that  one  of  the  six  ap- 
pointive board  members  should  be  a 
woman.  It  was  necessary  that  the  woman 
chosen  have  intelligence,  poise,  under- 
standing of  social  problems  on  a  statewide 
basis,  sympathy  for  the  needs  of  people 
and  a  recognition  of  the  financial  burdens 
placed  on  taxpayers  by  welfare  programs. 
In  short,  the  person  selected  must  possess 
an  unusual  combination  of  talent  and  ex- 
perience. In  Mrs.  Louise  Y.  Robison  I 
found  a  person  who  possessed  in  a  high  de- 
gree the  required  qualifications  and  whose 
sense  of  duty  persuaded  her  to  accept  the 
difficult,  self-sacrificing  and,  at  times,  even 
thankless  obligations  of  a  member  of  the 
State  Board  of  Public  Welfare. 
"In  the  past  five  years  I  have  had  op- 
portunity to  become  acquainted  with,  and 
have  many  times  acknowledged,  the  su- 
perior attainments  of  Mrs.  Robison.  Her 
long  service  in  the  work  of  the  Relief 
Society  was  a  preparation  of  the  greatest 
worth  in  taking  up  this  task.  As  a  Board 
Member,  she  has  been  faithful  in  attend- 
ance, wise  in  counsel,  excellent  in  judg- 
ment, and  in  every  way  helpful  to  her 
fellow  members. 
"As  Governor  of  the  State  of  Utah,  and 
as  Chairman  of  the  State  Board  of  Public 
M'elfare,  I  acknowledge  the  services  she 
has  rendered,  and  in  this  I  am  joined  by 
all  members  of  the  Board." 
She  has  been  a  member  of  the 
Travelers  Aid  Board  as  well  as  of 
the  Board  of  Visiting  Nurses, 
In  1939,  a  conference  was  called 
by  President  Roosevelt  to  study 
"Children  in  a  Democracy",  Again 
her  worth  was  recognized  by  the 
Governor,  and  she  was  appointed 
Utah's  representative  to  this  confer- 
ence. 
The  qualities  which  we  all  appre- 
ciate and  which  have  made  her  the 
admired  leader  of  the  women  of  the 
Church  have  been  recognized  by  the 
national  and  international  leaders  of 
women.  At  the  World  Conference 
of  Women  in  1933  held  in  Chicago 
she  was  asked  to  preside  at  one  of 
the  meetings.  We  who  have  gloried 
in  her  poise,  in  her  graciousness  as 
a  presiding  officer,  can  know  how 
she  brought  honor  to  herself  and 
her  organization  at  this  time. 

80  -  FEBRUARY,  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
In  1934,  she  attended  the  meeting 
of  the  International  Council  of 
Women  in  Paris,  France,  being  one 
of  nine  American  women  chosen  as 
delegates  by  the  National  Council. 
She  was  appointed  on  the  Commit- 
tee of  Single  Moral  Standards  where 
she  was  asked  to  report  the  work  of 
the  Relief  Society  and  the  standards 
of  the  Latter-day  Saint  Church. 
She  is  a  life  member  of  the  Na- 
tional Council  of  Women.  The  fol- 
lowing is  taken  from  a  letter  from 
Lena  Madesin  Phillips,  formerly 
president  of  the  National  Council 
of  Women:  "You  were  a  great 
source  of  satisfaction  and  help  to 
us.  I  particularly  count  upon  your 
sound  judgment,  your  vision  and 
your  fine  cooperative  spirit." 
When  the  Church  Welfare  Plan 
was  announced.  Sister  Robison  was 
enthusiastic  and  ever  since  has  been 
a  most  ardent  worker  for  the  Plan. 
She  has  been  advisor  to  the  Church 
Welfare  Committee,  a  member  of 
the  Deseret  Industries  Committee, 
has  presided  at  the  Relief  Society 
department  in  the  Salt  Lake  regional 
meetings,  and  for  some  time  went 
to  the  Ogden  regional  meetings.  Her 
great  desire  has  been  that  Relief 
Society  women  meet  their  responsi- 
bilities in  the  Plan.  How  wonder- 
fully the  women  responded  is  shown 
in  the  work  they  have  done. 
In  response  to  the  plea  of  the 
General  Authorities  .that  people  be 
helped  to  help  themselves,  "Mor- 
mon Handicraft"  was  started.  Sister 
Robison  has  the  vision  of  what  this 
project  may  become,  not  only  in 
giving  women  an  opportunity  of 
staying  in  the  home  and  yet  supple- 
menting the  family  income  but  also 
in  the  spiritual  and  cultural  values 
which   come  to  those  who  create 
beauty.  The  Church  Welfare  Pro- 
gram and  those  who  are  guiding  it 
have  had  no  more  active,  loyal  sup- 
porter. The  following  is  an  expres- 
sion of  appreciation  from  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric: 
"Among  the  men  and  women  with 
whom  we  are  privileged  to  work  there 
are  some  we  would  call  Kings  and  Queens 
because  of  the  motives  and  methods  of 
their  lives.  In  this  group  we  would  include 
Sister  Louise  Y.  Robison.  To  know  her 
is  to  love  and  honor  her.  As  advisors  to  the 
Relief  Society,  it  has  been  our  privilege  to 
meet  weekly  with  Sister  Robison  and  her 
Counselors,  and  we  have  come  to  know 
her  for  her  real  worth. 
"Her  charming,  queenly  ways  have  en- 
deared her  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and 
others  throughout  the  world  wherever  she 
has  gone  in  discharge  of  her  great  responsi- 
bility as  President  of  the  National  Woman's 
Relief  Society. 
"Sister  Robison  shall  never  be  forgotten, 
for  her  teachings  to  the  women  of  the 
Church  have  come  from  a  rich,  warm  un- 
derstanding of  the  needs  of  our  Heavenly 
Father's  children,  touched  with  a  deep 
spirituality  which  is  the  reward  of  diligently 
seeking  the  Father's  will  and  words. 
"She  truly  has  been  about  her  Father's 
business,  feeding  the  hungry,  clothing  the 
naked,  comforting  the  widow  and  fatherless 
and  freely  giving  of  her  love  and  kindness. 
"We  extend  to  her  our  love  and  bless- 
ings." 
All  who  know  Sister  Robison  will 
recall  her  loyalty,  her  friendliness, 
her  keen  sense  of  humor,  her  ready 
wit  and  delightful  way  of  expressing 
it,  her  charm,  her  spirituality. 
There  are  leaders  whom  we  re- 
spect because  of  their  strength  of 
character;  there  are  leaders  whom 
we  admire  because  of  outstanding 
ability;  Sister  Robison  is  a  leader 
whom  we  respect  and  admire  and 
whom  we  love. 
"No  leader  has  been  more  greatly 
loved,  and  few  so  loved."
