Our Relief Society Stake Presidents. By Susa Young Gates. The organization founded by the Prophet Joseph Smith, March 17, 1842, has done much more than can be expressed in words for woman as a sex, for the individual woman, and especially for the "Mormon" woman. The lessons of self-reliance, independent thinking, and humanitarian development, have been beyond price. The limitations of mortality give no measurement with which to weigh and estimate the incalculable good which has accrued to the home, the family, and the state, through the training given to women by the Relief Society. We may dimly feel and feebly express this great human gain, but not until eternity widens our vision and perfects our apprehension will we know the value of the mission given in 1842. The organization machinery of the Relief Society, in these few short days of 1918, has won the plaudits of generous minded observers both in our local circles and in the councils of the nation at Washington. The living machinery of the Relief Society rests upon the lives and characters of the women who administer in its functions. The general governing Board, with headquarters in Salt Lake City, are but a handful of women named by the general Church authorities and, with all their limitations, well deserve the responsibility placed upon them. But they would be helpless indeed without the second and third bodies of women, also chosen by inspiration, whom we call stake and ward presidents and who administer the affairs of the various organizations in their diocese. These women must be broad in sympathy, mellow of heart, quick of intellect, and possessed of that matchless gift, executive power. We have been presenting to our readers the portraits of some of our able stake presidents. We hope to include all of these leading women in the Church, ere this series of portraits is completed. We are proud to grace these 
 pages in this manner, and to present to each other and to the world a pictured testimony concerning the women of Zion.