[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | November | Issue: 12 | Title: R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS | Author: Unknown]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A., AND P. A. REPORTS
		     UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Conference of the Relief Society
of Utah Stake, held in the Meeting house,
Provo, City, August 30, 1889. President
Mary John presiding, assisted by her Coun-
selors. Conference opened by singing and 
prayer. The minutes of the former Conference
were read,also the half yearly reports from the
different branches of the society.
	Sister John said she felt pleased to meet the
sisters in Conference again. Was pleased with
the reports, it showed the sisters were using
their means to help the poor, etc. “We meet
here together from time to time to gain
strength from one another. We have been dis-
appointed in not having Sister E. B. Wells with
us as we expected. We will hear verbal reports
[Column 2]
form the different Presidents who are present."
After reports from the Presidents, Sister John
called on Sister East—from Arizona—who was
present, to speak to us.
	She said: “Although my face is strange my
spirit is in unison with you. I have been
absent from this part of the country for ten
years; previous to my going south I lived where
I could hear and treasure up the words and
teachings of President Young, and Sister Eliza 
R. Snow.” Spoke of the changes she ex-
perienced in attending meeting, quoted some
of the inspired sayings of Heber C. Kimball.
“Let us attend to our duties, it is not wisdom
to fill up our time with vanities, teach your
children holy principles, they have a mighty
mission to perform,” etc.
	After singing, and benediction by Sister M.
Daniels, Conference adjourned till 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m. Con-
ference commenced by singing and prayer.
	Sister East spoke to us again occupying
most of the time in the afternoon, giving a very
interesting account of her first hearing the
Gospel of the Latter-days preached. Was
taught by her grandparents that when the
right gospel should be preached the signs that
are spoken of in the scriptures should follow
them that believed. The first Mormon hymn
she ever heard sung was, “What was witnessed
in the heavens.” And the Elders then gave
an account of Joseph Smith’s mission, and we
were promised that if we sought for it we
should know for ourselves. I sought for a tes-
timony through fasting and prayer, and
received the gift of tongues and prophecy, and
rejoiced saying, now I know that God lives; I
bore a testimony to the same in meeting, at
that time, the Elders were persecuted and spit
upon by some. My father said go home with
me and I will find a place for you where they
will not spit on you, the Elders replied, never
mind they spit upon our Saviour. I had
promised to believe and could I after receiving
such a testimony, be a traitor? It is now 30
years since I covenanted to obey the Gospel
and I feel determined to stand faithful to the
end. Joseph Smith died for the Gospel. “A
mother may forget her nursing child, but the
Lord will not forget His people." The God of
Joseph and Brigham and our God will de-
liver us, Amen.
	Sisters Standring, Cluff and Daniels and also
Susa Y. Gates made additional remarks in the
same spirit and bore strong testimonies to the
truth of this Latter-day work.
	Sister John felt that we had been blessed in
meeting together, wished to bear her testimony
with the rest of her sisters. Conference was
adjourned for three months. Singing,
		"The spirit of God like a fire is burning."
Benediction by Mother Duke.
