[Vol2 | July 1915 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: In the Kitchen Laboratory — Hazel L. Dunford]
In the Kitchen Laboratory. Mrs. Hazel I. L. Dunford. FOOD FOR THE SICK. The feeding of well persons is a question of great moment, but when it comes to preparing food for those who are ill, the subject is of relatively supreme importance. The appetite of a well individual is usually a safe guide, but in case of disease, it is usually so perverted as to be of no practical use. And if these longings are followed, the result is generally a disappointment; for, as a rule, when one is ill "all things have the same taste," as we have often heard patients say. Never consult a sick person as to what he shall have to eat, or even discuss his diet within hearing distance. The physician in attendance, usually prescribes for the patient, and he should know the required need of the one in his charge. In many diseases, food plays a very important part toward recovery. The quantity and kind vary, according to the nature of the disease. In some cases, it is absolutely necessary to withhold food for days— the object being to starve the germs that cause the disease. In chronic cases, the food supply should be studied carefully, and the strength of the patient kept up. As a rule, in such a case, one has the advice of a physician to follow. Always avoid giving food that will overtax the individual. Food must be assimilated to be of any use. A common mistake made is to overfeed — especially during convalescence — and the result is too often a relapse. In preparing food for the sick, there are a few essential things that should be kept in mind: Cleanliness of every article is absolutely necessary. Appeal to the sense of sight as much as possible; appeal to the sense of taste; consider the digestibility of the food given, and remember economy. Many times a sick person in the house calls for all sorts of extravagances. This is not necessary. As was pointed out in a previous article, foods purchased out of season are of inferior quality, due to the shipping, packing, etc. The high price paid in no way renders these foods more easily digested. If food is well cooked and artistically served — no matter how cheap — it will be acceptable by those who are sick.
