[Vol2 | August 1915 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Guide Lessons - Genealogy Lesson III - Heirship]

If he does any amount of work, this name should be continued on the records, unless otherwise directed by Temple authorities, as relationship has been counted to this name, and the changing of the heir would confuse relationship. The custom followed when Temple work first began to be done in this generation, was, to change the heir as many times as the family pleased. This became awkward, because the heirship changing frequently, made the relationship so confusing that no one could tell where and how to adjust the genealogical data. Rule III. ? If the heir dies, the heir's name should not be changed, unless otherwise directed by the Temple authorities. If the class will notice, they will see that the heir in the lesson here given is Brigham Young, dead. Now, as a matter of fact, Brigham Young was not the oldest son of his father. His father, John Young, joined the Church, and all of John's eleven children followed him, all of them remaining in the Church until their deaths. However, Brigham Young was the first one in the family who started the Temple work, and his name was attached to the first record as the heir. Thereupon it was decided by the authorities of the Church, viz: That the first living male representative who begins to work in the Temple, and attaches his name as the heir to the Temple record, shall be continued as heir from generation to generation. However, you will notice that the word "Dead" has been attached to the name of Brigham Young, so that one knows that it is not a Brigham Young living at the time the records were made, but the Brigham Young who is dead. There is some difficulty with members of families, in regard to the heirship. It happens at times, that our brethren feel that there is some loss occurring of prestige or dignity to them, if the name of "heir" is not attached to them in the records. The heir in the Priesthood is not always the same as the heir in genealogical work. Rule IV. ? When any question or doubt arises in the foregoing matters, submit the same to the President of the Temple. He is the final arbiter of Temple work in all its phases. Please refer to your Lesson Book for further elucidation of this lesson. Note. ? Class leaders are advised to drill the class thoroughly on the rules before taking up the exceptions. QUESTIONS. What can you say about heirship? Who is the genealogical heir in the family? What was the ancient custom of heirship among the Israelites? Give rule No. I. Why should the name of the heir be always the same? When may a woman's name be properly used as the heiress? Whose duty is it to lead out in Temple work? If the oldest male representative refuses to step forward, what shall be done? To whom should all questions on Temple work be submitted? Give all the rules and then the exceptions.