SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	(Synopsis of minutes of the sisters’ meeting,
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Jan.
14, 1888, Coun. Zina D. H. Young presiding.
Opened by singing. Prayer by Sister E. B.
Wells.) Continued by singing.  Minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted. Minutes
of the Primary Association of the 20th Ward
were read by the Secretary.
	Opening remarks were made by Coun.
Young, who was very happy to be with the sis-
ters there again. Spoke upon faith; believed
that through the power of God some of the

[Column Two]

trials of the Saints would be averted; and said
many good things.
	Coun. E. Howard wished all a happy new
year; thought we should all try and understand
the position we are now placed in. Hoped the
sisters would pray for the members of the
Legislature, that they might have wisdom from
above, and pray for the heads of this nation
assembled in Congress, that their hearts be
softened. “ ‘God moves in a mysterious way
His wonders to perform.’ Let us renew our
diligence, and whatever transpires let us be
faithful.” Gave good counsel to the mothers,
and urged union and love towards one another.
	Sister M. A. Freeze, in her remarks said the
greatest gift God can bestow is for us to under-
stand the whisperings of the still small voice;
thought we erred many times in not obeying
this voice. “This is a day when we should
know how to live our religion;” said many
other interesting things. 
	Sister E. B. Wells testified to the truth of
Sister Freeze’s remarks; urged the sisters to
seek for an increase of faith, even mighty faith,
that our sick might be healed; thought we
should be cautious and wise in all things.
Spoke of having traveled among the sisters in
other stakes, and found them diligent and
faithful; had recently visited Sanpete County,
and had enjoyed it very much. Spoke of the
testimonies she had heard there from the
young sisters; referred to the Manti Temple, its
beauty and grandeur, and the work to be done
for the living and the dead; believed our
Father in Heaven was rich, and would not
only reward His faithful children liberally, but
give them good gifts.
	Coun. S. M. Kimball had been much inter-
ested in the remarks upon the cultivation of
the Holy Ghost, and it is one of the highest
faculties to learn to commune with the Holy
Ghost; also said if we transgress a law of our
being, we are doing wrong. We should reflect
upon these things, etc.
	Coun. B. W. Smith believed our prayers
would be heard, and that something would
come along to produce a change in our favor.
“God will look after His people. The chains
that will bind Satan will be our own good acts,
our becoming pure aud holy before God.”
	Sister Norman said, “The gift of the Holy
Ghost brings things past and present to our
minds. Get wisdom and understanding, then
we can drink of the bitter cup.” Prayed
that God would put hooks into the jaws of
those who are trying to make laws against this
people, etc.
	Sister Mary Grey bore a faithful testimony
to the truth; also Sister Leaker and Sister
Mary Silver and Sister Brown.
	(Coun. S. M. Kimball made some brief re-
marks, and burst forth in the gift of tongues,
which seemed to thrill the congregation. In-
terpretation given by “Sister Zina.” Sister
Dyer also bore a strong testimony to the truth,
and spoke in tongues. Interpretation given.
Sister May, recently from Scotland, said a few
words, and the spirit of tongues resting upon
her, she spoke with much power. The inter-
pretation was given.
	Coun. Z. D. Young made a few closing re-
marks, and the meeting was adjourned for two
weeks. Singing. Benediction was pronounced
by Coun. B. W. Smith.)
