DEAR EDITOR:
	As I do not wish to be forgotten entirely by
the sisters in Zion, I thought that a few inci-
dents of my experience would not be uninterest-
ing to the readers of the EXPONENT:
	I left the City of the Saints about a year
ago, arriving in Ogden at ten o’clock the same
morning. We immediately proceeded on our
journey, arriving at Green River about mid-
night, where we were detained several hours
waiting for the westward bound Express to
pass. In due time we arrived at Cheyenne,
where we changed cars and continued on our
journey, arriving in Denver about six o’clock
Wednesday evening. We remained here some
four hours, which gave me a good opportunity
to view the city. The depot here entirely
eclipses our modest little one in Salt Lake City;
there are many magnificent buildings, and the
city presents a scene of bustle and thrift. The
cry, “All aboard,” greeted my ears as I arrived
at the depot, and in less time than it takes to
tell we are on our way again, speeding through
the darkness.
	The next place of interest was Kansas City,


and as I had heard before leaving that this
was once the home of some of our older brethren,
I wondered, while gazing at the palatial resi-
dences, when the time would come when the
Saints should be permitted to dwell in peace.
Resuming our journey once more, we arrived
at St. Louis next—all but the Saint part—
the streets are narrow, the houses high, smoky
and dirty, and, to my mind, much inferior to
the cities previously mentioned. Our next
stopping place was Cincinnati; being dark and
raining very heavily, I had no opportunity of
seeing this city. After some delay, we were
again on our way, arriving in the City of New
York Sunday, somewhat fatigued, and put up
at Smith and McNell’s Hotel in Greenwick St.
I found this hotel all that any one could desire,
	elegance, comfort and economy. When
rested I took a stroll through this far-famed
city of extreme wealth and squalid wretched-
ness, and said to myself, how is it our Christian
senators concern themselves so much about the
morals of the “Mormon” people, when they
could find so much wider scope, with much
more gratifying results for their philanthropy
nearer home?
	Hoping this may escape the waste basket, to
all I wish a happy New Year.
								IRENE


