THE SWEDISH NIGHTINGALE.
	JENNY LIND.
The renowned northern vocalist, who so 
charmed the ears and thrilled the hearts not 
only of the votaries of the muse and her sister-
hood of song, but to all civilized nations, has 
recently passed away. With the mere mention
of her name—Jenny Lind— how the memory 
is stirred and seemingly reverberates with the 
sweet echoes of her voice and her wonderful 
achievements in the realm of song. Once to 
have heard her rich melodies, her bird-like 
notes and soft cadences, was a treasure of 
memory, never to be forgotten; for even after 
the long interval of time that has elapsed since
she sang to us, the delicious music still seems to 
vibrate on the ear.   *   *   *   *
	Although so wonderfully gifted, she was yet
most simple, unpretending and modest; full of
impulse and dramatic power, she was yet en-
tirely free from conventionalism.
Born at Stockholm Oct. 6, 1821, of parents
in the humbler walks of life, she may be said 
to have inherited a fortune in herself, for she
was almost cradled in song. From a very 
early age she evinced a love for music, and the 
rare beauty of her voice was remarkable, as 
well as her aptness in reading and retaining 
any musical composition.
	The power and pathos of her voice when she 
was yet very small, and only nine years of age,
was noticed by an actress, through whose kind 
offices Jenny was admitted into the Conserva-
tory of Scockholm, where she received lessons 
from Croelius and Berg, two eminent instructors.
Her ambition, which was to excel, was en-
couraged by her teachers. Her progress was 
wonderful, and it was greatly promoted after 
she had left the conservatory, by her residence 
with the family of the popular Swedish com-
poser, Adolph Frederick Lindbad.
	When ten years old, she made her first ap-
pearance on the stage as one of the geuii in 
Mozart's “Il Flauto Magico.” 
	Her debut as an artist took place in Stock-
holm in 1838, when she sang Agatha in “Der
Freischtuz” Previous to that she had passed 
through a most trying experience. At the age 
of twelve she lost the upper register of her 
voice, and for four years suffered the greatest 
anxiety lest her future should prove to be 
blighted. During those four years she was 
taught by Henry Berg, a man of sensitive 
nature and a musician of more than ordinary
ability. After two years under his guidance
she could once more reach the upper B natural 
without undue effort. Her success in Agatha 
was such that she subsequently sang the princi-
ple role in “Euryanthe,” Alice in “Robert le
Diable,” and Julia in Spontini's “La Vestale,”
all with blilliant success. She was the life of
the Royal Theatre until 1841, when she went 
to Paris to improve her style of singing. In 
Paris she studied nine months under Manuel


Garcia. The development of her voice,
naturally hard and inflexible, was mainly due
however, to her own indomitable energy and to
the high ideal which she kept constantly before
herself. Even in her childhood the tinge of 
melancholy, natural to most Swedes, gave to
her singing a character which frequently
brought tears to the eyes of her hearers. Meyer-
beer was in Paris while she was pursuing her
studies, and when he heard her he predicted a
brilliant future for the young artist. His in-
troduction led to her having, in 1842, a hearing
at the Opera, which was attended by Haydn,
Vasseur, Rossini and other prominent musicians
of the day. The Director of the Opera did
not go to hear her through the influence, it is
said, of Mlle. Stoltz, the reigning prima
donna.
	Jenny Lind did not secure an engagement at
the Opera, and she is said to have determined
never to sing in Paris. Through Meyerbeer’s in-
fluence she went to Berlin in 1844 and began 
the study of German. In September of that
year she went to Stockholm to take part in
the fetes attending the crowning of King Os-
car, but in October she returned to Berlin,
where, again through the influence of Meyer-
beer, who had written for her the leading role
in his “Feldlager in Schlesien,” better known
as “L’Etoile du Nord,” she obtained an en-
gagement at the Opera. Her first appearance
took place on Dec. 15, when she sang “Norma”
and was received with great enthusiasm. After-
ward she sang with equal success her new role
in the Meyerbeer opera.
	In the following April she sang in Hamburg,
Cologne and Coblentz After making this
tour she returned to Stockholm by way of
Copenhagen, once more achieving a triumphant
success. In 1845 she made the acquaintance
of Mendelssohn, and under his direction she
appeared at the Gewandhaus concerts in
Leipsic on Dec. 6. She has said that Mendels-
sohn wrote for her the soprano part in his
“Elijah,” and that he had other things in view
for her which were prevented by his early
death. While she was in Berlin she met Mos-
cheles, who, on Jan. 10, 1845, wrote thus of
her performance in “L’Etoile du Nord:” “Jenny
Lind has fairly enchanted me; she is unique in 
her way, and her song, with two concertante
flutes, is perhaps the most incredible feat in
the way of bravura singing that can possibly
be heard.”
	In 1850 she made an engagement with P.
T. Barnum, who brought her to the United
States, where, at Castle Gardens, New York,
she commenced a series of concerts, the receipts
for the tour being $610,000, and her share be-
ing $302,000. On Feb. 5, 1852, she married
Otto Goldschmidt, in Boston, who accompanied
her as pianist. After a series of triumphs in
England she and her husband became lead-
ing professors at the Rhenish Academy of
Music.
	At one of her concerts at Castle Garden, an in-
teresting incident occured, during the perform-
ances. Jenny Lind, as usual, was encored, and
seeing John Howard Payne in one of the stage
boxes, she sang “Home, Sweet Home,” with such
wonderful effect and pathos, that the entire 
audience rose up, in testimony of their regard
for both writer and singer,
	During her stay in this country Jenny Lind
gave away about $90,000 in charities. This 
city was music mad in 1851, and in 1852 with 
her and Katherine Hayes and Alboni, all of
whom gave concerts at Tripler Hall.
	On her reutrn to Europe, Mme. Jenny Lind-
Goldschmidt, as she was now called, traveled
through Holland and again visited Germany.
In 1856 she returned to England, which she
henceforth made her home. Until recent years
she appeared there frequently in concert and
oratorio. She sang in Exeter Hall, London,
in the “Creation,” Dec. 10, 1855, on Dec. 17
in the “Elijah,” and on Dec. 24 in the “Mes-

[Column 2]
siah.” On Nov. 17, 1869, she sang in Exeter
Hall, in her husband’s oratorio, “Ruth,” which
was then first heard in London. She said once
that her native land had little charm for her,
because it was never kind to her till the days 
of her prosperity. But that she had a warm
spot for it in her heart is attested by the fact
that she devoted the whole of her American
earnings to founding and endowing art scholar-
ships and other charities in Sweden. To Liver-
pool she gave a hospital, and she added a wing
to one in London. Among other things she
founded a scholarship in memory of her friend
Mendelssohn, and the first scholar elected to it
was Sir Arthur Sullivan.
	During her visit to Bath, England, she hap-
pened to be walking with a friend in front of
some almshouses, into one of which she entered
ostensibly to rest herself but in reality to find
some excuse for doing an act of charity. An
old woman, like her neighbors, soon began to
refer to the arrival in their city of Jenny Lind,
and the pleasure the Theatre-goers were hav-
ing in hearing her sing. “For myself,” said
the old woman, “I have lived a long time in
the world and desire nothing before I die but
to hear her myself.” “Would it make you
happy?” was the response. “Ay, that it
would,” said the old woman,“but I shall never
hear her, since I cannot leave this place.”
“Don’t be so sure of that," said the good-natured
Jenny, “sit down, my friend,and listen;” when
forthwith the vocalist sang to her one of her
richest songs, and taking leave said: “Now you
have heard Jenny Lind.”
	The daily life of Jenny Lind in London was
extremely simple. Every morning, at 7:30
o’clock there were family prayers. At these
not only her husband, Mr. Goldschmidt, and
her three children, but the servants, assisted.
When breakfast was over she habitually retired
to her room on the second floor, and seated at
her writing-desk, opened and answered her
numerous letters. Her room which looked out
on a beautiful garden, was simply furnished.
The most notable piece of furniture in it was
a large screen, which had, pasted over its en-
tire surface, newspaper clippings from all parts
of the world eulogistic of the great singer.
Next to Jenny Lind’s room connected by a
door covered with portieres, was the room of
her husband. In it stood a grand piano, and
often Mr. Goldschmidt played on this instru-
ment at night until his wife, who was nervous
at times, was, by his performance, lulled to
sleep. The family sat down to lunch at 1
o’clock. Jenny Lind was a moderate eater
and fond of simple cuisine. In the afternoon
she took a walk when the weather was fine, and
purse in hand, distributed alms to the poor
whom she met. When she came home she
taught her select circle of pupils, and at
7 o’clock she sat down to dinner. She never
went to theatres, balls, or operas. She went to
hear Patti sing once, but she left the hall be-
fore the performance was over, saying that
Patti could act but she couldn’t sing. She
was rather sensitive on the subject of her
rivals. She attended not long since a garden
party, given by the Lady Burdette-Coutts. In
the course of conversation a gentleman speaking
of Christine Nilsson, called her the “Swedish
Nightingale.” Instantly there sprang up from
a seat close by, an aged, thin woman, who
pointed her finger at the speaker, and ex-
claimed in a voice quivering with rage: “You
are wrong, sir, you are grossly wrong; I am the
‘Swedish Nightingale.’ I am Jenny Lind!”
	She liked to read aloud in the evening, or
she chatted about her triumphs to her favorite
pupils. Though she possessed magnificent
jewels she never wore them. She was exceed-
ingly fond of her husband, though they had
disagreements at times; and she always said
that it was owing to Mr. Goldschmidt’s man-
agement that she was in such easy financial
circumstances. She brought up her children

[Column 3]
well. Her son Walter is a lawyer; her son
Ernest is an officer in the army; her daughter
Jennie was married to Mr. J. H. Maude.
She spent her summers partly at Wiesbaden
and partly in Kainzenbad. At Weisbaden,
whither she went to take the baths for her
rheumatism, she lived at her own villa.
	Not merely in the simple ballad or passion-
ate lyric has she achieved her highest triumph.
It was in religious music that the quality of
her voice and soul found fullest development.
It was in sacred music that her round notes
swelled into their richest harmony; and she
seemed among her kindred when she spoke a
holy mission—“I know that my Redeemer liv-
eth, and that in my flesh I shall see God." The
rapture of conviction seemed in every syllable
of her utterance. Such music not only en-
riches the language with which it is immediate-
ly linked, but summons into presence from ob-
scure haunts of the memory all the poetry of
thought that has ever entered it.
	She was one of those lovely gifted spirits,
whom a time of peace sends forth to humanize
the world and to link  the nations together.
Sweden, has done much in this respect. In its
darker times, even, it had its true hero—Gus-
tavus Adophus; in its last age, its benignant
Linnaeus, with his child-like heart and his love
of flowers, as well as his love of nature; in our
own day it gives us Frederika Bremer and
Jenny Lind—women who, in their own great
and noble powers, have no superiors in the
world.—Woman.
