BISHOP WHITNEY'S LECTURE.

	The initial lecture of the Twentieth Ward series,
under the auspices of the Improvement Associa-
tion of that Ward, "Tongues of the Times, and
what they tell us," was delivered Sunday evening
Jan. 15 in the Ward meeting-house.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney was the speaker, and his
address was listened to throughout by a large, at-
tentive and delighted congregation.
	Bishop Whitney opened his address by saying
that some tongues were audible while others were
silent, and showed how they might be audible to
some whose spiritual conditions were suitable,
while silent to others who lacked the preparation
to receive their warning. Some seemed to think 
that the scriptures were not at all adapted to the
present generation. The speaker stated that a-
truth uttered in any age was a part of the Gospel,
and would be found to cohere with all other
truths uttered before or subsequent to that time.
And whosoever read the revelations of God
given through any of His Prophets, would, if
possessed of the Holy Spirit, realize that they
spoke to him or her with oracular power.
	The speaker then related incidents which oc-
curred after the martyrdom of the Prophet
Joseph. Some knew that Brigham Young
was appointed leader of Israel. They
say that the mantle of the Prophet had
fallen on him. To them he spoke with Joseph's
voice. While others were in the dark, and the
tongues of the time were silent to them. God
had always raised up men suited to their times
to lead His people. Referred in a graphic manner
to the labors of President Joseph Smith and
Brigham Young, and the cares which the Church
in its infancy and childhood had entailed upon
those leaders. That during the exile of President
Taylor and others the Saints had been required
to think for themselves and assume more of the
responsibility of their course; and he likened the
experience of the Church in this regard to the
growth of a man, who, having discarded the
swaddling clothes of infancy, and put away the
pinafore of his childhood, began to use his rea-
soning faculties, and to exercise his more manly
powers in the spheres of usefulness. It was a
slothful servant who had to be commanded in all
things. Counsel should always be sought when


necessary, but some things might be known with-
out being repeatedly told.
	Bishop Whitney then compared the warnings
and fate of Jerusalem with the testimony uttered
by the tongues of to-day. His allusion to the
prediction of Jesus concerning that rebellious city
and the terrible fulfillment fifty years later, was
extremely touching. He bore a strong testimony
of the truth of the Gospel, and the near approach
of the consummation of all things. He condemned
the class distinctions, which too much prevailed
among the Saints, and showed that the work of
preparation for Christ's coming, was to bring
down the haughty and lift the lowly and oppressed.
He said that there would be a grand leveling of
mountains and raising of valleys, literally and
figuratively, before that day, for God would make
the crooked straight, and the rough places plain,
and deceit and hypocrisy would be done away.
In speaking of amusements, he said that recrea-
tion was necessary, and pleasure to a certain
extent proper; but this did not justify the Saints
in making pleasure the pursuit of life, instead of
a seasoning, as if their existence here were a huge
joke. And in closing, he exhorted all to solemnify
their thoughts, and to prepare themselves for the
times which had been predicted, and for partici-
pancy in the great blessings to be enjoyed, when
the millennial reign of Christ should commence
and the earth should rest a thousand years.


