						SARAH CUMBERLAND, Sec.

		"Leaves have their time to fall,
			And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath,
		And stars to set—but all,
			Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O Death!
		We know when moons shall wane,
			When summer birds from far shall cross the sea.
		When Autumn's hue shall tinge the golden grain,
			But who shall teach us when to look for thee?"

	DIED, in the 17th Ward, Salt Lake City, Dec. 1st, 1887,
of diphtheria, Mary Lillias, daughter of James S. and 
Elizabeth Brown, born January 8th, 1874, and was therefore
aged 13 years, 10 months and 23 days.
	Lillias was a bright and sweet girl, who endeared herself 
to all who knew her, by her dutiful and obedient spirit. 

[Column 2]
Being her Sunday School teacher for about two years, I
learned to love and appreciate this noble spirit. She was
always attentive, and endeavored to store up the knowledge
gained in the Sabbath School; kind and attentive, consider-
ate to her classmates, and always gentle and thoughtful of
me.
	She made great sacrifices to attend Sunday School, hav-
ing so many little brothers and sisters who claimed so much
of her attention and care, yet she worked hard and late
Saturday night, that she and they might be ready for Sun-
day School. She only missed one Sunday during the year
in attendance until the time of her death, and then she
was very sick.	
	Supt. Beattie requested her to learn the ten commandments
the last Sabbath she was at school; her mother says she
began to learn them as soon as she got home, such was her
anxiety to do as required and her eagerness to gain knowl-
edge; she learned them and repeated them to her mother
on her death bed.
	I shall miss Lillias from my little class, and her vacant
seat will make me feel sad, but I know she has gone to a
better world, where sorrow and death can never enter, and
God is the Father of all. To her parents her loss is irrepar-
able, but may He who heals the breaking heart and dries
the mourner’s tear sustain them through this great bereave-
ment.
	"The loved and lost! they are within the door,
		That shuts out loss and every hurtful thing,
	With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
	In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
		And God Himself their Lord and Judge and King;
	And we must do the work that they laid down,
		Take up the song where they broke off the strain.
	So, journeying till we reach the heavenly town,
	Where are laid up our treasures and our crown,
		And our lost loved ones will be found again."
