	REV. S. MILLER HAGERMAN.


[Column 1]	
NEW YEAR’S DAY.
	This is New Year’s Day, looked upon by the
youth only as a holiday, a time of merry mak-
ing; but to those of us who are older, more
serious thoughts will come at this time.
	Another year has been numbered among the
things of the past and another page of our
life’s history has been turned over. How many
are wondering to-day what of weal and woe
this coming year will come to them? This is
something which no man knoweth; the future,
so far as details are concerned, is a sealed
book to us; and it is well that it is so. “Suffi-
cient unto the day is the evil thereof.” And
if there be bitterness and woe, disappointment
and sorrow in store for us, it is a merciful
Providence which hides it from our view. And
if it be joy and pleasure, more keen will be
our appreciation and enjoyment of it, that we
knew it not before hand. We should strive at
all times to cultivate a contented spirit, and
feel that whatever besets us it is all for the
best.
	Though we cannot peer into the future, we
are not denied the pleasure (a melancholy one
though it may be), of retrospection. Many of
our people have had a pitiful experience, caused
by religious persecution, even in the last few
years. Parents and children, husbands and
wives are separated, families broken up, com-
fortable homes have been abandoned, and great

[Column 2]
sacrifices been made; many are in exile, others 
in prison. Perhaps my experience has been
similar to that of other of my sisters, and this
is the first New Year's Day that our family 
has been privileged to enjoy together for four 
years, and this not under our own government.
I am reminded of the words of an Irish song:
	“Must we ask a mother’s welcome
	Of a strange, but happier land?”
though the comparison may not be very appro-
priate. Three years ago some of us were
making a toilsome journey with our little ones,
under most uncomfortable circumstances, travel-
ing through mud and snow, passing over a
bleak mountain road, on the first day of the
year, saved from perishing with cold only by a
kind Providence. Two years ago surrounded
by parents and friends, but far, far away from
my husband, our family widely scattered, and
feeling the greatest anxiety for the welfare of
the absent ones. One year ago, oh, how vividly
that comes to my mind, the mingled joy and
sorrow—sorrow at parting with dear aged
parents, with no hope of seeing them again in
this life, with kind brothers and sisters, and joy
in the sweet anticipation of soon meeting again
with the one dearer than all others on earth,
after a cruel separation of nearly two years.
The past year has indeed been fraught with
many changes and new experiences to me as to
many of my sisters.
	Life seems to be made up of meetings and
partings, disappointments and pleasure, which
are sometimes strangely mixed and blended.
Undertaking a railroad journey of hundreds
of miles, with a family of little ones, but feel-
ing a hundred fold repaid for all the care and
anxiety consequent thereto, by the reward re-
ward received, the privilege of once again asso-
ciating with my husband and our family. But
my happiness was too great to last unalloyed
by sorrow. Death claimed for his own one of
my loved ones, leaving a void which cannot be
filled; a mother’s heart cannot but yearn for
the dear one who has slipped away, and her
thoughts often wander to the little mound
which covers the mortal remains, although we
know it is foolish and wrong to grieve; we
know not the temptations and snares which
might have beset his path, the dangers which
he has escaped, and should feel to acknowledge
the hand of God in affliction as well as in
prosperity, for “the Lord giveth and the Lord
taketh away,” and He doeth all things well.”
	KATE.
	Jan. 1, 1887.


