	OBEDIENCE TO GOD'S COMMAND.

	It requires obedience to God's commands to be
a Latter-day Saint.

	I was asked this question. "What does it re-
quire to be a Latter-day Saint?" It was by one
who was not of our faith and principles. This
question awakened in mind a multitude of thoughts
and reflections and bade me to commit some of
them to paper. I feel that I am inadequate to
answer this question in the fullest sense and
meaning of the term. It is necessary that we,
as well as those who are not of us, should under-
stand the key word to eternal salvation, and this
is to obey the Gospel requirements. Without
which, they cannot enter the progressive, and we
cannot go on in progression as Latter-day Saints.
Christ laid down the law of salvation and was
obedient to it Himself, and requires obedience
from all creatures. Some may ask, what is the
law? It is written in plain and simple language
by Mathew, Mark, Luke, John, Paul and all the
former day Saints who did not get into the King-
dom only by baptism by one having authority.
John the baptist was a chosen one of the Lord.
The angel, Gabriel, came direct from the presence
of the Lord and told Elizabeth or Zacharias that
she should have a son in her old age and he should
be filled with the Holy Ghost and his name should
be John. And the father of this son of promise
prophesied of him, and said, St. Luke 1st chap.
76 verse, "And thou, child, shalt be called the
prophet of the Highest: for thou shalt go before
the face of the Lord to prepare His ways;" "To
give knowledge of salvation unto His people by
the remission of their sins." And the Angel
Gabriel said of John before he was born that he
should go before the Savior in the power and
spirit of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to
the children, to make ready a people prepared for
the Lord. And what did John do? Let us read
St. Mark, 1st chap. 4 verse. "John did baptise in
the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repent-
ance for the remission of sins." Jesus yielded
himself to baptism. Was baptised of John in
Jordan; afterward the Spirit of God rested upon
Him and the voice of his Father
said, He was well pleased in Him to
signify that He had done His Father's 
will in being baptised, He said, "He came not to
do His own will but His Father's;" and also said

[Column 2]
to His Disciples, "As my Father hath sent me,
even so send I you." Now, the Gospel plan of
salvation was from heaven, or why did the Savior
ask the question of the scribes?
"The baptism of John, was it from
heaven or of men?" And as the people believed
John to be a prophet the scribes did not deny that
it was not from heaven. The last chapters and
verses of Mathew and Mark tell all people what
to do. And Peter, Acts 38th chap. and 39th
verse. "Then Peter said unto them, repent and
be baptised every one of you in the name of
Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye
shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost." "For
the promise is unto you, and to your children and
to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord
our God shall call," All people are now called
to repent, turn away from their sins and be bap-
tised for the remission of them, for the angel that
John the Revelator saw, has brought again the
everlasting Gospel to preach to every nation kin-
dred, tongue and people. Saying with a loud
voice, Fear God, and give glory to Him; for the
hour of His judgment is come," etc. Last chap.
of Revelation 12th verse. The word of the Savior
is, "And behold, I come quickly and my reward
is with me, to give every man according as his
work shall be." 15th chap. 4th verse. "Who
shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name?
for thou only art holy; for all nations shall come
and worship before thee; for thy judgments are
made manifest." "And I heard another voice
from heaven saying, come out of her my people
that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye
receive not of her plagues." The Latter-day
Saints have gathered out from the world, that they
may learn more fully of the ways of the Lord and
walk in his paths. All these things it is
necessary to do, to be a Latter-day Saint. When
we have been obedient to all the ordinances of
the Gospel we then go on from knowledge to
knowledge until we become perfected in the truth
and have no doubt, knowing that we have kept
His commandments. For whosoever is born of
God overcometh the world and this is the victory,
even our faith. And it is the spirit that beareth
witness, because the spirit is truth. "For there 
are these that bear record in heaven, the Father,
the Word, and the Holy Ghost, and these three
are one" And there are three that bear witness 
in earth, the spirit, and the water, and the blood;
and these three agree in one."
	Now, if we are obedient to the word, "He that
believeth and is baptised shall be saved," and 
receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands
by men holding the authority. We have three
that bear witness in heaven. We have three
that bear witness on earth, the spirit, the water,
and blood. And these all agree in one. The
witness of our Heavenly Father is the greatest.
The Latter-day Saints have the knowledge of the
true Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
The only revealed religion existing on the earth;
they know the penalty of sin, and the joys and
happiness of a pure life, and like former-day
Saints count all things else as dross, compared
to the eternal riches of an endless life in the man-
sions prepared for those who love and serve Him
faithfully to the end. A Latter-day Saint when
first initiated into the Kingdom of God becomes
as a little child and receives nourishment from the 
Holy Sprit, which leads and guides into all truth.
If they forsake the world and all its pride and
allurements the Holy Ghost takes up its abode
with them, to usher them into a new life; their souls
are filled with peace and joy, they have found the
pearl of great price the truth, the gem of revela-
tion, they are satisfied, and have confidence to
seek at the throne or grace for light and knowledge
that they may grow in grace and in the mysteries
of the things of God, and under these conditions
we must be as perfect as we know how, according
to the knowledge we possess. I have lightly

[Column 3]
touched on what it requires to be a Latter-day
Saint. 
				MARY ANN M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 12, 1887


