DEAR AUNT EM:
	Now that “merry Christmas” has come and gone
and the New Year festivities are over and we are
left to sober reflection again, I will pen a few of
my thoughts upon current subjects; which, if you
think them worth while, you are at liberty to pub
lish.
	Christmas! Is not this festival over done by us
in many instances? Are not our Christmas gifts 
too often appreciated in proportion to their mone-
tary value, rather than their being simply the
souvenirs of true friendship or the tokens of a 
loving affection? In short, have we not become
mercenary to some extent in this particular? Is
not friendship and affection often lost sight of in
the strong desire to outdo another in giving some-
thing of greater value materially, thus pandering
to a depraved feeling? Have we not in many in-
stances become so lavish in our gifts to our child-
ren upon these occasions as to make the simple
presents from the Sabbath School very little
appreciated? I merely ask these questions, leav-
ing every person to answer as they see fit.
	New Year’s! A legal holiday,made so by statu-
tory enactment. A time when work is thrown
aside and we measurably abandon ourselves to
pleasure and enjoyment. According to an old
time American custom this was a call day rather
than a visiting one, when the “Happy New Year”
wish was reciprocated by old and young. The
old fashioned customs of this day have of late
years been sadly abused, their original simplicity,
heartiness and purity giving way to extravagance
and foolish etiquette and sometimes debauch.
	I was more than pleased to learn, that in the
principal city of Utah, where the custom of keep-
ing open house on that day had been growing very 
strong of late years, necessitating a notice in the
local papers of the names of those ladies who
would receive callers at the various houses, that
this year the custom was "more honored in the
breach than the observance." And for one I will
say, on all future New Year days, "So mote it be."
Let each succeeding Christmas day come round to
us with its merry making, its family reunions,
pleasures and enjoyment undisturbed. Let the
Old Year die peacefully and the New Year come
in with its bright hopes and joyful anticipations
unmarred, but in the midst of it all let us be con-
sistent, prudent and wise.
	Dancing! An exercise both enjoyable, health-
giving and strictly moral, when indulged in, in
moderation, at proper hours and with proper peo-
ple; but quite the reverse when associated with
late hours, immoderate indulgence and question-
able companions. In regard to round dancing, let
me say that the persistent demand for it seems 
strange to me, when the universal verdict of the
best men, the brightest minds and the highest
physiological and scientific talent is altogether
against it; while the spirit and teachings of many
of the leaders of Israel have proclaimed against
it. True, it is allowed to a limited extent, yet this
cannot be quoted in any degree as a proof of the 
propriety of the practice. Israel anciently desired
many things which were not good, some of which
were allowed by the Almighty, but always under
protest, and universally brought disaster upon the
people. 
	Our young sisters, if they would take the matter
of round dancing in hand, could, I am sure, settle
the question most effectually by simply refusing to
indulge in this kind of a dance under any circum-
stances. The only question with me is, although
so easy of solution, will they do it? In regard to
the persons who have a right to go forth in the
dance, President Young said, thirty years ago,
"That those individuals only who had kept their
covenants, and served God faithfully, and who
had refrained from wrong doing, should join in the
dance.” He also said, further, “That such people

[column 2]

were as well prepared for a prayer meeting imme-
diately after dancing as after any other exercise
or labor, for their hearts were pure before the
Lord.”
	The Governor's Message! What an amount of
(shall I say wilful) ignorance he displayed when
he attributed all the past mobbing, driving, plun-
dering and murdering of the Mormon people to
the Mormons themselves, and justified not only
the past, but the present crusade also. According
to his reasoning, because wicked men have in
every age of righteousness, abused and foully
murdered good and holy men, therefore the act is
justified in all future time. Popular clamor found
abundant cause against Jesus, but were these
people justified? But such assertions as the 
Governor made upon this point in his message are
altogether unworthy an argument. I would like
to have him to listen to scores of living witnesses
of unimpeachable veracity, who could tell such
tales of atrocities committed against the Latter-
day Saints that would harrow up the souls of the
most skeptical and bitterly prejudiced, if they
would but give attention to such recitals. But,
unfortunately for us, only very few of our Govern-
ors, or other Federal appointees have been dis-
posed to award to us any consideration whatever,
and I suppose we must be content to bide our time
until eternal justice shall proclaim for the right.
	The Mormon people the aggressors indeed?
Never! any further than the advocacy of true and
scriptural doctrines make them so; and who dare
interpret such moral suasion as dangerous either
to property, liberty or life. The lands the Mor-
mons occupied in Ohio, Missouri and Illinois, and
from which they were so ruthlessly driven, were
purchased and honestly paid for by the Mormon
people, and the titles held by the present occupants
are in the main invalid, and in many instances
are stained with Mormon blood. I know whereof
I speak. Had we, like ancient Israel, retaliated
upon our enemies and imbued our hands in their
blood, no matter how much soever we might have
been justified, we would not have been permitted
to build Temples to the name of the Lord. This
one reason alone should suffice to prove false the
statement that the Mormons are a bloodthirsty
people, for they are essentially Temple builders.
	King David, who never went to battle without 
the word of the Lord, and was consequently
justified in slaying the enemies of the people of
God, was nevertheless not permitted to build the
Temple in Jerusalem because he was a man of
blood. Therefore, his son Solomon was chosen
for this especial work.
	Legislation! I suppose Mormon women will
have to bide their time and wait patiently for a 
change in the national sentiment and the gallantry
of the so called “Lords of Creation,” if they have 
any left, to restore to us the franchise of which 
we have been so shamefully robbed, and those
other privileges and rights which belong to all
woman-kind. Well, we are used to waiting and
can trust the future most implicitly. 
	Y. L. M. I. Associations! The very first princi-
ple taught in them was "retrenchment." Would 
it not be well to go back to first principles again,
and advocate them with such zeal as to make their
power felt from one end of Zion to the other, for
many of our indulgences in foolish, and I may 
say, in some instances, wicked fashions, are cer-
tainly abominable in the sight of the Lord.
	Sickness! especially among the young, foremost
of which may be mentioned that dreadful scourge
diphtheria, at whose approach the stoutest hearts
quail, and which has made many homes desolate
indeed. Can nothing be done to stay the ravages
of this dread disease and other kindred ones? All
reliable medical men throughout the civilized
world acknowledge their utter inability to success-
fully grapple with what is termed diphtheria proper.
Quacks and upstarts advertise various "infallibl

[column 3]

remedies” therefor, and thousands are deceived
in this way.
	In view of these facts, my sisters, would it not
be well to turn to the Lord and fast and pray and
humble ourselves before Him, having first ob-
served closely the “word of wisdom” according to
the spirit and meaning thereof, that confidence in
our petitions may not be lacking, because we have
neglected to observe that which God has given
with a promise that “the destroying angel shall
pass by us,” for he is surely abroad in the land.
And the inhabitants of Zion will only escape as
the laws of Zion and the counsels of God are ob-
served by them.
	Let us, then, nurse our sick with all that dili-
gence which love and a pure affection will prompt,
exerting our skill to the utmost, at the same time
exercising strong faith in God and in the ordi-
nances of His house. Let neighbor join with
neighbor, if needs be, until we prevail; or should
our loved ones die, they will die unto God as the
revelation declares. Truly these are trying times,
but to falter in no woman’s trait in general, al-
though through lack of wisdom she may sometimes
fail. My sisters, it will require all the natural for-
titude and courage we possess, coupled with all
which we can gather from above to enable us to
endure and successfully pass through the fiery
trials of these last days.
	That God may assist us is the prayer of 
