       BY FRANCES E. WILLARD.

  I wonder how many women go  back in
thought, as I do at this weary hour, to the
time when they first lost their liberty? I ought
to be thankful, doubtless, for mine lasted longer
than that of most. During sixteen blessed
years I had feet uncramped, limbs unfettered,
trunk unbandaged, hair untwisted, and, largely
as a consequence, spirit blithe as a singing sky-
lark.  Living in the country, and in much 
isolation, my dear mother permitted to her
daughters the almost unexampled bliss of free-
dom in both body and mind. There was no 
hill too high to climb, and no tree for that


matter; no valley too deep to explore, no brook
to wet to wade. Out-door air, simple food,
eight hours sleep every twenty-four—all these
beatitudes were ours.
	But there came a day—alas! the dark day
of my youth—on which I was as literally 
caught out of the fields and pastures as was 
ever a young colt; confronted by a long dress
that had been made for me, corsets and high-
heeled shoes that had been bought, hair-pins
and ribbons for my straying locks, and I was
told that it simply “wouldn’t answer” to “run
wild” another day. Company from the city
was expected; I must be made presentable; I
“had got to look like other folks.”
	That was a long time ago, but I have never
known a single physically reasonable day since
that sweet May morning, when I cried in vain
for longer lease of liberty. Those "adorn-
ments”—the inquisition of fashion—changed
my outlook on the world. A caged bird be-
came my fitting emblem. Of a shy, sensitive
nature, I yielded at once to the inevitable. But
my high heels threw me out of poise, and I
wouldn’t try to walk more than was necessary
in the clinging folds of that long, tight-fitting
gown. Hence I ceased to be a denizen of God’s
beautiful out-doors; was a rambler and a 
climber no more, but gave myself to books,
and have remained in my cage—the house—
right on through the years. After my long
day’s work with the pen, I say to myself so 
often, “If I could put on a hat, button a coat 
around me, and step off freely, how delightful 
a walk would be.” But no; there are intricate
preliminaries before a woman can do anything
so simple as to take a constitutional. In my
own case, the easy wrapper that I wear at my
work, with its long, heavy skirt, must be
changed for a street-dress; the slippers for shoes
to be buttoned up; a bonnet, affording no pro-
tection from light, wind, or observation, must 
be "tastefully” put on; tight-fitting gloves
drawn to their places, and then only, with
skirts to be lifted at every step until one’s knees
grow weary, the airing may begin. A man
would have two things to do—put on a coat
and crowd a hat over his eyes; a woman has
three articles to take off (wrapper and slippers),
dress to draw on, collar and cuffs to adjust and
pin, shoes to button, wrap to fasten, bonnet to
tie, and then all their burdens and constrictions
to endure. 
	So, for the thousandth time, I return to my
room, actually too tired to “get ready,” and
then get over the ground,” though Lake
Michigan’s splendid expanse stretches away to
the east, and there are lovely groves, cool,
shady nooks, and tempting by-ways all about
me. Much I muse why these things are, and
clearer grows the conviction that woman will
never be a rational citizen of the world while 
these things are. I recognize joyfully the pro-
gress we have made since I was a student at
Milwaukee, in 1857, when no girl was really
“stylish” who wore less than eight white skirts
trailing on the ground after her; but how slowly 
we move when women of refinement will wear 
bustles, lace themselves as of old, pinch hands
and feet, bare their heads to the blast that their 
tufts of bonnets may be “like the rest,” and
simper their criticisms on “dress reform.” Near
me on the walls of my study hang Annie
Jenness Miller’s picture and engravings of her
new costumes. I look up at them with a 
prayerful heart, saying, “How long, O Lord,
how long?” 	
	Instead of the walk I would like to take,
had I the old-time conditions—the modest,
simple, short dress, loose jacket, and broad-
brimmed hat of auld lang-syne—I pen this
jeremiade, and bid God-speed to the earnest-
hearted woman who, in roaring Gotham, plans
for us women a costume that hints at better
days.

[Column Two]

	Several years ago three Russian lady doctors
started, at Tashkend, a consulting hospital for
Mussulman women. From the beginning the
experiment proved a success and the popularity
of the hospital has been increasing ever since.
During the last twelve months fifteen thousand
consultations have been given.—Ex.
	Mrs. Gladstone, writing a prefatory note for
“Women Workers in the Liberal Cause,” says:
“We cannot recognize too clearly the crying
need of education and combined effort among
women. A great cause such as that which
now lies nearest to our hearts, the cause of Ire-
land, should arouse in us a passionate desire
for thorough and accurate knowledge of its
history. Strange that this should have been
so much overlooked.”


