BOOK NOTICES.
  "The Rose of Deseret" is the significent
title of a neat little volume of poetry and prose
issued recently by Sister Emily B. Spencer, of
St. George. She is not unknown to the public
as a writer, this being her second book. The
first one was published about six years ago. In


our opinion this book is superior to the first.
It is printed on very good paper in clear type,
and contains in all one hundred pages. There
is a dictionary of names of men and women
with the meaning and derivation of the same,
which will be useful for reference. The price
of the book is 50 cts; for sale at the Juvenile
Instructor Office, where it was printed. 
	Sister Spencer has arranged the contents
nicely, and there are some very excellent
thoughts and truths, clothed in purity, sim-
plicity and sweetness  Some of the subjects
she has chosen are quite pathetic, well written,
and also true; for instance, "The Lost Child,"
"The Martyrs," "A Heroine of the Batalion,"
and others. The poems which seemed to us
most musical were, "The Rose of Deseret" and
"Wildwood Flowers."
	We have not space to mention more, but can
safely recommend the work to the sisters, and
trust they will purchase such books as are
written by the women of Zion, in preference to 
the floating trash, undeserving the name of
literature, that very often has only its "being so
cheap" as its recommendation.

	"Goodholmes Domestic Cyclopedia of Prac-
tical Information, Illustrated," has been some-
time in our possession, and we have found it
very useful for reference. It is really a family
book, and deserves a place in every household. 
The work is alphabetically arranged, and it is
so simple in manner of giving headings, etc., 
that one cannot fail to find without delay the
desired information. There are recipes for
cooking sufficient for any housekeeper; also for
preserving, making wines from fruits, vinegar,
pickles of very many kinds, and bills of fare
for dinner-parties, lunches, teas and various en-
tertainments. There are articles on bathiug,
drainage, exercise, house ventilation, diet for
invalids, warming water and other hygienic
subjects, which would be very useful in the
home; and also upon the care of infants and 
children, the sick room, nursing and wet nurs-
ing, fevers and other diseases. Special emer-
gencies in cases of accidents and things of that
kind are ably treated upon. The list of ingre-
dients needed "has been prefixed to each recipe,
to save the necessity of reading all the direc-
tions before knowing if the ingredients are
within reach, and to lessen the danger of over-
looking any in getting them together." Many 
of the illustrations are original, others collected
from various sources. The principal appro-
priation has been made by arrangement with
English publishers from the great cook-book
of Miss Acton. 
	After a careful examination of this cyclo-
pedia, we feel justified in recommending it to
the public, and think it the best work of the
kind that we have ever seen. It contains 600
pages of printed matter, and 25 ruled pages,
blank, for written recipes. The index covers
over 20 pages. The book is well bound, paper
an excellent quality. For sale at James Dwyer's 
book store.


