"THE HEART KNOWETH ITS OWN
			BITTERNESS."
	BY WM. H. S. ATKINSON.
			(Proverbs xiv. 10.)
Aye, the heart knoweth—every pang of sadness,
	Each weight of anguish that we have to bear;
Knoweth the tear which drowns the smile of gladness,
	The crushing sorrow and the anxious care.

Knoweth the heavy burdens that beset us,
	The hopes that back return with crushing force,
The disappointments keen that daily fret us,
	Each sense of shame and feeling of remorse.

Knoweth full well the aching desolation,
	Which comes to us when last good-byes are said,
The failure of each tendered consolation
	To soothe us, as we kneel beside our dead.

Knoweth what hurts us more than death or sorrow,
	The wounded pride which comes with sore defeat,
The yearnings weak that die with each to-morrow,
	The rude awakenings from illusions sweet.

Aye, the heart knoweth—knoweth and remembers,
	As loves of other days become outgrown,
As we stand o'er old friendship's whitening embers—
	Each heart must bear its bitterness alone.


[Column 1]
	TRUE WOMEN.
	Careful, considerate girls are likely to become
prudent and wise women.  I do not mean to
say that girls who are giddy, perhaps wayward,
and possibly vain and selfish, may not, in after
life, settle down and make good, conscientious
wives and mothers; but I do say, that with such
there are great risks to run, and that the earlier
in life they begin to lay aside their follies, the
better chance there is for their becoming true
women.
	How necessary it really is, that while girls
are very young, they learn to be true in all
things!  To be true we must be honest in all
respects.  There is nothing to choose between
false words and false actions.  A deceitful heart
will manifest itself both by insincere utterances
of the tongue and hypocritical performances.

[Column 2]
	The heart, then, is the object to be carefully
guarded, put through a thorough self examina-
tion, and if found to be not quite true in any
wise, to be made so, and kept so.  It is impossi-
ble for finite beings to estimate the real worth
of a true heart.  All the accomplishments
which belong to a genteel education, all the
scholastic learning of which it is possible for
mortals to possess themselves, even the gifts of 
mental superiority, which belong to genius, are
of small value if not coupled with true-hearted-
ness.
	There is a power in the consciousness of being
true, which those wanting it do not understand,
a moral strength, a fortitude which enables its
possessor to endure many things which, without
it, were unendurable, and to find joy in that
which else were pain.
	No woman who possesses this strength of 
character can become entirely absorbed in her
own personal interests; she must be thinking
and working for the welfare of others, and the 
more she thinks, and the more she exerts her-
self in that direction, the greater is her power
to lay aside that selfishness, which is natural to
humanity, and the truer she becomes.
	No woman can be really true who is afraid
of meeting with ridicule.  There are always 
those who are ready to laugh down the honest
convictions of the timid and over sensitive.
But a true independence of mind enables a 
woman, as well as a man, to differ, without fear,
from the times in which she lives, if she thinks
it right to do so.  Not insolently, but with
modest earnestness, to make a point of morals
and what she considers good sense, rather than
to be carried helplessly along upon the cruel,
uncertain and unsatisfactory breeze of fashion.
A woman who is thus true to her convictions,
will gain and maintain, in course of time, the
respect and confidence of the world about her;
and what is even more, the approval of her
own conscience.
	Will the gentlemen of her acquaintance
really think as much of her, if she shows signs
in any way, of having ideas and opinions of
her own, as they would do if she simply fol-
lowed after the suggestions and fancies of 
others?  Those whose respect is worth her seek-
ing or caring for will; and for the rest, she has
no need to trouble.
	Let me give a sentence here from one of the
most intelligent and conscientious of modern
writers, the Rev. Joseph A. Seiss.  He says:
	“There is a trueness, a readiness, a self-com-
mand and a fertility of resources in a genuine
woman, of which all kings and all men do
well to avail themselves, whether in shadow or
in sunshine. *   *   *  If woman is apt to be
agitated with trifles, yet when some great crisis
comes she has more calm magnanimity than a
thousand lords—more sense and self-possession
than they all.  From her finer strung nature,
she may feel it the more afterward and suffer
the more severely from the rebound, but while
the dread crisis is upon her, the other sex sinks
greatly by comparison.”
	This sentiment, remember, is a man’s opinion
of a genuine woman.  There are many to whom
such an eulogy could not be correctly applied,
many miserable “make-believes” among women
as well as among men.  But of such we are
not now treating.  With all true women, I be-
lieve there is a certain reverence for the good
opinion of good men.  And any of these, unto
whose notice the above quotation may come,
must feel that Joseph A. Seiss is deserving of

[Column 3]
their honest thanks, for the high compliment
he has paid them.
	Let us hope that the time is not far distant
when the entire sisterhood among the Latter-
day Saints will be worthy of and also awarded,
the general admiration and appreciation of
their fathers, brothers, husbands, sons and
friends; but above all, the loving approbation
of the Eternal Father. 
	L.G.R.


