			WOMEN.

	An International Council of Women is to be
held this year at the Nation's Capital. It will be
an event of great moment to women universally,
something "new under the sun," and will, without
doubt, seriously effect the question of woman's
equality before the law, and have a tendency to
impress strongly upon this nation and other
nations the intense earnestness women of intellect,
refinement and culture are giving to this compara-
tively new phase of woman as a citizen of the
world. It will give emphasis to the measures al-
ready advocated with such untiring energy and
unflinching integrity, by advanced thinkers, and
will also have a tendency to evolve other methods
of enterprise and achievement which will more
effectually lift the women of all nations into greater
light, and bring them up to that relative position
in the brotherhood of the world, that even-handed
justice demands for them, and that the intuition
and prophetic sense of the best and most mature
thinkers in the great battle of woman's rights,
have anticipated during the last forty years.
	It seems marvelous, when one considers the
condition of the women of our own nation even,
that forty years of effort should have wrought
such a wondrous change, as to admit of a mam-
moth jubilee such as this would be, though as yet
it can scarcely be called by so significant a 
term.
	In union there is strength, is often quoted, and
when the strongest and ablest women of several
nations combine to promote a great cause, their
united faith and power "will remove mountains,"
so to speak. The notices given through the press
of this International Council are indicative of the
increased influence of women in the various de-
partments of life. There are no slurs on her
weakness, no ridicule of her mental powers, but
the utmost respect and deference characterizes all
newspaper articles on the subject, that have come
under our notice.
	Forty years ago, in 1848, the first Woman's Con-
vention was held at Seneca Falls, New York. The
two women most prominent in calling it were
Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Mrs.
Stanton is still living and holds the office 
of President of the National Woman's Suff-
rage Association, under whose auspices this 
great call is made. That Convention held forty
years ago was the first public demand for 
equal educational, industrial, professional and
political rights for women ever made. Since
that time what vast progress and advance-
ment women have made, step by step, not only in
our own land, but in lands afar, under govern-
ments hostile to all measures for woman's higher
education and progression, in all her relations to
the home, or the state.
	This great change in public opinion, and in the
various conditions of woman as a helper and

[column 2]

worker are due mainly to the active forcos brought
to bear upon the question of woman's place, in
the first instances by the notable women of this
century who took part in that memorable conven-
tion, and other faithful diligent and fearless work-
ers, who have since been added to their ranks.
They have broken down the iron gates that barred
women out from the field of action where they
might receive the full growth of stature, and de-
velopment of talent, and having once opened
these iron-barred gates, hung upon the hinges
of ignorance and sealed so firmly by tradition,
the great multitude of women that have flocked in
thither have prevented their being closed again,
and are now storming the formidable fortress with-
in so effectually that it must soon yield peacable
possession to these helpers in the world's great
work, and side by side, and shoulder to shoulder,
brother and sister, man and woman will advocate
the triumph of right, in the momentous questions
that are now agitating the world of thought. 
	It may take forty years more, but we doubt it,
perchance not more than ten, when there may be
a real jubilee celebrated over the victory gained
in woman's cause. Woman's love for the true,
the noble, the pure and the infinite will be a po-
tent power in revolutionizing governments
when she is allowed to be the political equal of
man. Until woman is untrammeled in this re-
spect, she cannot possibly wield the same influence 
in public affairs.
	That this Herculean effort in behalf of all
women may be attended with the best results, and
that from this may emanate such wisdom and
power, as shall move the leaders in governments,
and the people, to a recognition of the difficulties
women so keenly feel, and the environments which
surround them now, that a revolution may soon
commence which shall be still more far-reaching
and effective in its methods than in the past, and 
ere long woman may stand in her beauty andmajes-
ty a free and independent being as she came upon
this earth, willing and ready to share the respon-
sibilities of earth-life, and never shrinking from
its duties and obligations even though fraught
with pain and sorrow. 
	The International Council of Women will be
held in Albaugh's Opera House in Washington,
D. C., commencing March 25, 1888, and will con-
tinue eight days. There will be sixteen public
sessions, giving ample opportunity for reporting
the various phases of woman's work during the 
last forty years. The call is made under the 
auspices of the National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, President;
Susan B. Anthony, First V. Pres.; Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Second V. Pres.; May Wright Sewall, Ch'm
Ex. Com.; Ellen H. Sheldon, Recording Sec'y;
Jane H. Spafford, Treasurer; Rachel G. Foster,
Cor. Sec'y.


[Column 1]
﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	SINCE the last issue of the paper the Legislature
of the Territory has assembled, organized and
commenced the important work of law-making
and so forth. As this is the first session since the
passage of the Edmunds-Tucker bill, its doings
will be severely scrutinized and commented upon
by those who are so anxious to abolish all govern-
ment by the people who have made the Territory,
and have taken care of its interests for forty years.
The Governor’s message to the Legislature has
been commented upon in another column by Aunt
Ruth, with whose views upon the subject we per-
fectly agree.	
	PRES. M. ISABELLA HORNE returned on Satur-
day evening, Jan. 14, from a visit of about three
months to relatives and friends in California and
Arizona. While in Arizona she attended several
meetings of the Relief Society and other Associa-

[Column 2]
tions, and gives a good report of the labors of the
sisters in that Territory. Pres. Horne, is much
pleased to be at home again, though she enjoyed
and appreciated her visit. We expect she will
furnish us with some incidents of her journey for
the paper, and we feel sure the sisters here and in
other parts of the Territory and elsewhere, will be
gratified with an account of her trip West and
South.
	MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D., who has been
absent from home seven months, returned on the
14th inst., having traveled from Pueblo in company
with Bro. and Sister Horne. Dr. Shipp spent the
first three months of her absence in New York,
and the remainder of the time in Philadelphia; in
the latter place she devoted her time and attention
to gaining special knowledge in improved methods
of surgery and hospital work, for which she had
excellent opportunity. Previous to leaving the
Medical College in Philadelphia, she was invited
to speak to the ladies there upon the subject of
"Mormonism,” which invitation she accepted,
and spoke to a large and intelligent audience. We
feel sure Dr. Shipp would arouse the interest of
her hearers and allay prejudice, if any existed, as
she has a modest, unassuming manner, a sweet
and pleasing address, and a sincerity and earnest-
ness which must impress an audience favorably
at least. Dr. Shipp returned home feeling well
and strong in the faith of the Gospel, rejoicing in
having opportunities of bearing testimony to the
truth. For the present her office will be at her
residence, No. 34, 7th East St.
	WE ought to have acknowledged, ere this the
circulars of the Brigham Young Academy, giving
“an insight into its numerous departments,” from
the Utah Enquirer, Jan. 3, 1888. It contains much
correct information of the modus operandi of this
noble institution, which has already accomplished
so much for the benefit of the young people of
Zion. Its Theology is strictly in conformity with
the principles of the Latter-day Saints and the
general organization of the Church. The instruc-
tion upon theological subjects “are classified ac-
cording to the Catechism, Bible, Book of Mormon,
Doctrine and Covenants and Compendium. There
is a complete domestic organization, which is
highly spoken of by the students, and must be
very satisfactory to parents. There are Primary,
Preparatory and Intermediate departments for the
practical training of pupils in all branches, with a
view to a higher course. Some of the special
branches are Physical Geography, Civil Govern-
ment, U.S. and General History. Drawing, Ladies
Work, Penmanship, Music, Language Course,
Business Course, Commercial Arithmetic, Com-
mercial Law, Assaying, Quantitative Analysis,
Biology, Zoology and Descriptive Astronomy.
Great attention is given to the Normal Depart-
ment of this Academy. The normal students are
divided into a senior and junior class, the whole
course covering a period of two years. There
is excellent opportunity given to this class of
students. This school should receive the influence
and patronage of the Latter-day Saints, as also
all schools of this character, if it is expected that
the children of Zion will fulfill the expectations of
the parents in the development of all that is
noblest, best, highest, purest and truest in the
various departments of learning, and remain stead-
fast in the things of the kingdom of God. Prof.
Karl G. Maeser has been untiring and unflinching
in the work he undertook in the establishment of
this most excellent enterprise. That he has not
always had the support necessary to perfect and
perpetuate the institution according to his ideas
and plan, has been very apparent, but from this
time we sincerely hope and trust there may be a
renewal of interest and effort combined, that will
build up more completely and foster this educa-
tional institution for the accomplishment of its
noble mission and the good of all Israel.


