Leda Thompson Jensen By Donna D. Sorensen THIRTY-SEVEN years have brought a variety of experiences to Leda, the daughter of John O. And Fannie Green Thompson, born at Ephraim, Utah. Her accomplishments and the honors which have come to her have been indicative of her heritage and training. She has met life with the same zest and zeal which made her parents and grandparents valuable members of pioneer communities. Leda has always been keenly eager for learning. Particularly fortunate was she in being born in a family where individual preferences were considered. Provision was made for her to attend Snow College. Then followed a two-year service in the Mexican Mission field and the acquirement of a new language. Upon her return from her mission she determined to pursue her education with the university as her objective. To achieve this desire she taught for a few years in the grade schools in her home town. Later she spent one year at our state university and the remainder of her college work she acquired at the Brigham Young University at Provo. HE year she graduated with the class of 1927 found her as vice president of the student body. My first contact with her came in this year and I was impressed with her democratic spirit. She was an outstanding success in this office as she possessed the ability of delegating responsibility wisely and she also had that rare capacity of fraternizing with the students. With her talents she was liberal and she often represented the school in programs sent out to neighboring towns. Dependability, too, played a part in her success. No promise was too small to be overlooked when once Leda had given her word, Nor was this office the only honor which came to her at the university. Because of her musical talent she was chosen to sing one of the leading roles in the school opera, "Elijah." Her ability in her major field, Home Economics, led to her being selected as a charter member of Gamma Phi Omricon, Home Economics sorority. She also won the Hazel Nobel Boyack Efficiency Honor Medal to the best student in the Home Economics department. General scholastic — capability placed her among the students graduating from the university with highest honors. WHEN Leda married Dr. Ernell Jensen in June, 1931, she not only assumed the responsibility of wifehood common to each bride but she also faced courageously the task of mothering his four children. Later a son and a daughter of her own gave added responsibility. In this new calling Leda brought splendid training and boundless energy. One of the true tests of education comes in whether the individual can apply that knowledge which has been gained. Truly in this situation knowledge and application stand hand in hand. The home duties and family life of the Jensen's have been admirably worked out. Because of a firm belief in the value of working according to schedule and the proper budgeting of time the home functions as a smooth LEDA THOMPSON JENSEN working unit. Sister Jensen is an efficient homemaker but still she finds time to engage in church activities, to interest herself in genealogy and to perform temple work, to sew extensively and to read widely. However it would not be possible for her to go so far afield had she not had the encouragement, the support and the cooperation of her splendid husband. JUST as Leda in her life has recognized a time for learning so too has she learned the value of giving. Her teaching in school has been done on both the elementary and the secondary levels. The Pleasant Grove High School claimed her for three years after her graduation. Undoubtedly, however, the major portion of her usefulness as a teacher has been in a secular capacity. The Sunday School, The Primary, the Mutual, and the Relief Society have all been recipients of her earnest, trained effort and talent. VERSATILITY is Leda's because her innate desire to garner truth and knowledge has willed her to be, because her training has enlarged her vision and because she herself has learned to manage well her many duties. 205 SISTER JENSEN has always possessed the quality of recognizing and appreciating the fine in each individual. Her tolerant, democratic spirit and friendly interest in people generally have made her beloved by many. These friends will rejoice in this new honor which has come to her. HER interest in Relief Society has been stimulated by the admirable example of her mother who has labored many years in this organization. Leda was chosen to serve as a social service teacher in the Relief Society of the Highland Park Ward in 1934. So well did she function here that the following year Sister Nellie O. Parker, Relief Society stake president of Highland Stake, selected her to serve on the stake board in the same department. To Relief Society women everywhere Leda T. Jensen will bring a keen understanding of a homemaker's problems, a mind trained to think clearly and logically, a sincerity in her work which comes with a fervent testimony of the gospel and a feeling of friendliness which will endear her to those whom she will serve. Rg SPRING SONG By Linnie Parker Gold I like these "tree-top" days—they bring A certain steady, splendid swing Of curtains—branches—everything— I like the way the wind is playing— Roaring, ranting, swinging, swaying, Like a giant voice that's saying: "T am blowing in the Spring!"