Rae Barlow Barker By Jessica Bird Goates HROUGH memory, we turn back to the active scene of our pioneer fathers and mothers, and to the great contributions they made for the development. Of their cherished philosophy of life— the gospel. Nor has the significance of their work been lost sight of by many of their children and grandchildren. In their time and way they too are making contributions as evidenced by consistent service. Such a one is Rae Barlow Barker, christened Mercy Rachel. [SRAEL BARLOW Sr., a pioneer of 1848, and Lucy Heap, a member of the handcart company, settled in Bountiful, where Rae's father, Hyrum H. Barlow, was born. Her mother, Margaret Burton, was a daughter of Wm. W. Burton of Ogden and Ellen Fielding. Both parents had an untimely death, leaving Rae, with her two sisters and a brother, to be reared by their beloved Aunt Mercy R. Stevens. How well they were fostered is indicated by the fact that each of them, together with Aunt Mercy's own daughter, was given a college education. IN her early life on the Burton ranch in Star Valley, Wyoming, Rae rode ponies, chased blackbirds, herded and milked cows, turned the cream separator, and most of all learned to appreciate people in the humble walks of life. She has never lost that common touch, which makes all people interesting to her. Her winters were spent at school in Ogden and later at the University of Utah, AFTER completing her college course she taught school, but in her leisure time she became interested in engineering—or at least in an engineer. Her marriage to Howard Barker in 1917 marked the beginning of another happy adventure. They have known the real meaning and joy of team-work. The two little Barkers who joined their partnership a few years later proved to be two good reasons for studying foods and studying and practicing child welfare, better speech, fundamentals of religion, and home building. ER church activities have been numerous and varied. She was a teacher in Sunday School at fifteen, has-taught in the Primary and Seminary, served on the Weber and Liberty Stake Mutual Boards, and has both taught and been an officer in ward Mutual and Relief Society organizations. Of all her opportunities for service, that with the Emigration Ward Relief Society has brought her the greatest joy and satisfaction. Her efforts as a teacher in the literary and better speech departments, and as a counselor to Sister Belle Lambourne, have won her a lasting place in the hearts of her associates. From her own point of view, the experience has been like a university extension course rather than a church duty. She is imbued with the idea that the Relief Society offers unlimited possibilities for progress. She feels that any woman who once gets the spirit of the Relief Society program will experience that same stimulation and RAE BARLOW BARKER incentive to serve which she has enjoyed. Rae Barker is deeply sympathetic and extremely tolerant. She makes decisions only after weighing both sides. She not only firmly believes in Jesus' precept, "Judge not that ye be net judged'', but goes far towards practicing it. She meets the vicissitudes of life courageously, attacks her problems intelligently and judiciously, and is true to her convictions. She radiates cheer, peace and love to all who are near her. The latchkey of her home is always hanging outside. Humility, sincerity and charm are three of her choicest qualities, and her prayer is ever "God give me 209 mountains, and strength to climb". The following quotation, which I cannot repeat exactly as it was written, is one which Rae treasures, and she says it has acted as a spur to her for many years: "I am only one, but I AM ONE. I can not do everything, but I can do something. What I can do, I ought to do, And what I ought to do, by the help of God, I will do." ER great devotion to Relief Society work, along with many other qualifications, will surely make her a valuable addition to the General Board. Her host of friends wish her joy and success in her new venture. THE TABERNACLE CHOIR By Pliny A. Wiley _ Sweeping over the mountains At the dawn of each Sabbath Day, Comes the music of melody's fountains To hallow and bless our way. From the city fair by the inland sea When the organ calls to prayer, A benediction comes to me. I catch a strain celestial there. When the voices sweet of the singers rise I fancy they soar to meet The white robed chorus in Paradise Singing our earth to greet. O golden choir of the golden West We cherish each song of thine.