I thought when I heard the birds singing That happy I'd be all the day, But Bluebirds I found were soon winging— I hadn't prepared for their stay. They flew to my neighbor's fair garden, A garden delightful to see, And stayed there—they found such a welcome, My neighbor had worked patiently. Then seeing my neighbor I asked her Why happiness stayed at her door, And smiling she gave me the answer, A secret she'd learned long before. "I never leave weeds in my garden, I pull them when ever they start, For weeds are my faults and I pluck them Before they cast stains on my heart." And now I can hear the birds singing, And happy I am all the day, I'm weeding the faults in my garden, And Bluebirds are coming to stay.
LONESOME By Ella J, Coulam
I miss you in the Springtime I miss you in the Fall, But oh! On Winter evenings I miss you most of all. The world seems cold and dreary When you are far: away But when you come back home again, Then Summer will come to stay.
Notes to Work and Business Department
THE linoleum cut which took the first prize in the recent contest conducted by the Work and Business Department was used by the General Board at a dinner party given in honor of the First Presidency and members of the Quorum of the Twelve. Mrs. E. H. Slade of Weber Stake, winner of the prize, reproduced one hundred copies of her original design on dainty rice paper which she tinted by hand. These were used as a decoration on a folder at each plate which contained the program and menu. They were very artistic and were much admired.
Theology Department
"Theology is a Semaphore pointing the way to Life Eternal."
THE lesson "The Miracles of Christ", is the concluding lesson of the 1936-37 group. These lessons have all been presented for the purpose of strengthening the testimonies of Relief Society women in the Divinity of the Savior: in the words of John, "That Ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, and that ye might have Light." This seems an opportune time to review, clarify and clinch the objectives of the lessons which have been taught. For example, in what way was your testimony of the Divinity of the Savior strengthened by the lesson, "Christ's Ministry Foretold by the Prophets?"—"Christianity Before the Christ?"—"The Divine Code to the Ideal Life?" etc. In presenting the lesson "The Miracles of Christ", opportunity is afforded to further strengthen the testimonies of the women by showing that Miracles are an essential characteristic of the true Church of Christ, that they are a testimony that the promises of the Savior through the Prophet Joseph Smith have been realized.
The Field
Article Seven of the Articles of Faith might well be quoted as an introduction to this lesson. In view of the fact that there are so many interesting and important phases to this lesson, some of which are more familiar to the class members than are others and therefore apt to receive more than their due share of attention, it is suggested that class leaders in preparing this lesson make a clear, logical, concise lesson plan. In doing this we are more able to maintain a proper balance among the various parts of a lesson, and give to each phase it's proper amount of attention, as well as to control any part of the lesson which might have a tendency to get out of hand. In preparing this plan all material contained in the Magazine should be included. Discussion might be profitably divided among the following headings.
Nature and Purpose of Miracles. Value of Miracles. Pattern—Church of Christ Miracles—Illustrative Types. Present Church and Miracles. Types. Miracles essential characteristics of True Church Sacredness. Our responsibility.
As Latter-day Saints we recognize that we should maintain our distinctiveness as a Church, in that we should recognize the power of God to perform Miracles now and in the future, not only such as were performed in the past, but even greater, however, in view of the modern tendency toward unbelief and even ridicule, we must bear in mind the commandment recorded in The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84:73, "But a commandment I give unto them that they shall not boast themselves of these things, neither speak them before the world; for these things are given unto you for your profit and salvation." Good judgment tells the Latter-day Saint NOTES TO where, when and to whom to relate the miraculous. In presenting miracles performed in the present day it is advisable for the teacher to adhere closely to recorded history. In presenting these lessons it is THE FIELD 241 suggested that as much of the material contained in the Magazine be drawn from the class as possible. Class participation is an essential part of good teaching. The women are subscribers to the Magazine, read the lessons and love to contribute.
A Happy Experience By Nettie D. Bradford
THE study of the life of Julia Ward Howe brings forcibly to my mind some pleasant experiences my husband, Dr. Robert H. Bradford, and I had while he was majoring in Metallurgy and working for his Ph. D. At Columbia University, New York City. Dr. Henry Marian Howe, son of Julia Ward Howe, Prof. of Metallurgy at Columbia, was considered the best authority on Metallurgy in this country and for that very reason my husband went to Columbia in order to do his thesis work under Dr. Howe's personal supervision. No teacher could have been more kind, helpful and interested in any one than was Dr. Howe in this young Mormon student from Utah. They had many conversations together during which the principles and doctrines of our Church were freely discussed. Dr. Howe was a gentleman and a scholar in every sense of the word. Shortly after we were settled in our little apartment Dr. Howe and his wife came to call on us. It was a Sunday afternoon. My baby not being well, I had remained home from church and when the door bell rang I wondered who it could possibly be. Upon opening the door I was surprised to see a distinguished looking lady and gentleman—both rather small in stature —who introduced themselves as Dr. and Mrs. Henry Marian Howe. They were very friendly and made me feel quite at ease in their presence. A short time before Thanksgiving Day we received a note from Mrs. Howe inviting us to their home for Thanksgiving dinner. We were young and inexperienced so I worried considerably—what should I wear?—was it proper to take the baby? (I had no one to leave her with). The evening arrived. When we reached the home we were met at the door by the butler who, after assisting us in removing our wraps, formally announced "Prof. and Mrs. Bradford." Dr. and Mrs. Howe greeted us very cordially and after chatting for a short time in the drawing room dinner was announced. A most delicious turkey dinner was served. Nothing could have been finer had we been real dignitaries. Dr. Howe related incidents of his father's work with Laura-Bridgman, the blind and deaf girl, and many events in his mother's life. After dinner we were taken up stairs into Dr. Howe's "den" where they showed us many relics and gifts to their parents from the nobility of Europe, also a copy of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic" in his mother's own hand writing. It was then that Mrs. Howe gave our baby a little porcelain dog to play with and insisted that she take it home with her; this, she still has among her most treasured keepsakes,