"So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses."
The parable shows the possible extent of sin in the individual as well as the extent of divine forgiveness and is intended to enforce the true spirit of forgiveness. Jesus was well aware that no law of the kingdom is more difficult to obey. The pardon of personal wrongs is not easy because of the desire for revenge and retaliation. Yet these feelings must be subdued before true forgiveness will come. The generosity of the king is typical of God's loving kindness as Jesus would show by this comparison of the sinner to God. Mercy received should be recognized by mercy shown. The wrongs we suffer should weigh as nothing compared with wrongs we commit. We, ourselves by our own unforgiving spirit close the door against God who is always ready to forgive. The feeling of forgiveness comes to us when we put ourselves in a position to receive it. No life can be open for forgiveness that harbors resentment. Revenge is not sweet: it returns to us to warp and darken our own souls. Christ, most unjustly treated by the people he had come to serve said, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." We often make mistakes in judg- 252 ing the motives of others and fail to forgive as we should as a result of this. If we do not forgive, how can we hope to be forgiven? "Judge not that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge ye shall be judged and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again."
Discussion
Are we willing to extend to others the same charity and loving forgiveness that we expect to receive ourselves?
Work and Business (For June)
EQUIPMENT AND METHOD OF HOME LAUNDRY
TO do or not to do the family laundry at home is the question many women ask themselves. There are many arguments for and against it, taking into consideration points difficult to measure by the dollar-and-cents yardstick, but however answered and whatever method used the housewife wants her wash to be clean, sanitary, with white clothes white at low cost, prompt and efficient service, and a saving of time, energy and clothes. In trying to solve this problem for yourself don't listen only to the home laundry equipment salesman who warns against terrible chemical, unsanitary plants and awful ripping and tearing machinery in his competition plant. Don't heed only the commercial laundry salesman who tells of horrible washer accidents and chronic physical ailments from his competitor's home appliance shop. Visit your commercial laundry, talk with the manager and see how and under what conditions your clothes are cleaned and compare with your own methods of washing. Then select your home equipment or commercial plant with the same care as in choosing your daily bread, your dairy and market, and remember the wear and tear elements in both depend upon the performance of machinery and upon skill of the operator. As in any kind of business, equipment and organization of labor make home laundry work easy, interesting and pleasurable. The kind and amount of equipment will depend on where you live, your standards of living, climate, number in family, space, occupation, and income. An estimated cost including electric washing machine, electric ironer or mangle, electric hand iron, tubs, clothes basket, line and pins, ironing board and pad, varies from $125 to $200. It may cost less or even more if equipment is stationary. It is economy to buy quality rather than quantity so that if only a washer and hand iron can be had, make sure they are of a good type so there will be ease and little expense in operation and upkeep. Ample space in which to work, with plenty of light, heat, good ventilation, convenient hot and cold water, with adequate supply, and a satisfactory means of drying clothes, make work easy and