The Relief SOCIGCY Magazine JUNE 1966 Volume 53 Number 6 Christie Lund Coles The mountains form a necklace for my town, Green as amethyst or the rarest jade; Sunlight falls like gold-dust from a crown; Clouds embroider the sky of delphinium shade. Each eye is entranced when looking on this scene, Where maples border walks; where water moves Silverly humming tunes; reflecting green Of dainty willows which the memory loves. Here, sometimes, just at dusk an organ plays, Or carillon chimes peel out from some far tower; This is a moment when the spirit prays, Knowing a sacred, sanctifying hour. | thank God for this moment and this spot, So richly given and so dearly bought. The Cover: )§ Machupicchu, Peru; Transparency by Vernon Sharp _ Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Kamas Valley, Utah, Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: | Dick Scopes | Ilustrations: |) Mary Scopes For a long time | have wanted to say thanks for our little Magazine which | enjoy so very much. | love the lessons, the stories, and the poetry. The Poem "On the Mountain" (by Melba S. Payne) in the March issue was especially thrilling because | could immediately recognize the mountains and |. The town the author wrote about. | feel that | must have grown up in the very same valley. June B. Jensen Orem, Utah | want to tell you how delighted we are with the Magazine. Each issue is even more beautiful and inspiring, and its arrival is eagerly awaited. The beautiful colored pictures add so much to the appearance, and the accompanying articles are well written. | particularly enjoyed the description of the ''White Sands"' (by Claire W. Noall, April 1966), and in memory relived an unforgettable afternoon our family spent there. In our stake we were thrilled with the lovely reproduction of the quilt made by Nellie H. Smith (March 1966). Sister Smith lives in the Eleventh Ward of Mesa Stake. Ada J. Jones President Mesa (Arizona) Stake Relief Society As a one-year-old convert to the Church and as literature class leader in our: ward, | realize what an important part our Magazine plays in my life and work. This Magazine is superb. |! Shall ever be grateful for its excellence of quality and the stimulating spiritual diet it provides. Its influence is apparent in homemaking and in studying, and it is invaluable in strengthening those ties of love and understanding which unite our sisterhood. The poetry delights me, the stories instruct and warm me. Rae A. Williams Avondale, Auckland New Zealand 402 er in my lovely home. | pray that our Thank you for placing the picture of the Ricks College Stake Relief Society Board in the March 1966 Magazine. At our stake board meeting last week, each member gave a personal experience concerning the. Picture. The college dormitory mother said. The girls flocked into her apartment to congratulate her on being in the picture. Many of the girls are going to put the picture in their Books of Remembrance. Another board member said that her friend whom she hadn't seen for thirty years wrote saying she had seen the picture in the Magazine. Lisle L. Andrus President Ricks College Stake Relief Society Rexburg, Idaho After reading the March 1966 issue of our Relief Society Magazine,.! Felt compelled to express my gratitude for th talents of its many contributors. | was especially inspired and motivated by the prize-winning story written by La Littke ('"'The Search for Katie''). It seemed to have been written as an answer to the anxieties of finding my present identity. As. A young mother, I, too, have been facing the same questions that Sister Littke wrote about; and, after her story, | feel satisfied and blessed with my role as wife and mothMagazine may. Continue to be a guide and inspiration to the women of today. Linda M. Staley Hunter, Utah A | have subscribed to The Relief Society Magazine for many years, and think it is the best little Magazine ever. | especially enjoyed the article 'Under the Surface."" by Ruth House in the December 1965 issue. She lives in our home town, so | felt | had a glimpse of home. Edith S. Marshall Holbrook, Arizona the Relief Society 2:22) 

Volume 53 June 1966 Number 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 404 406 408 420 430 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay Relief Society Magazine in Spanish Marion G. Romney James A. Cullimore Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Annual Report for 1965 Hulda P. Young Mexico City Claire W. Noall Fiction 415 Wheat for the Wise—Chapter 6 Margery S. Stewart General Features 402 410 412 414 453 480 From Near and Far Editorial: A Relief Society History Making Event Belle S. Spafford Editorial: 

Contents
Volume 53 June 1966 Number 6
Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford
Special Features
404 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay
406 Relief Society Magazine in Spanish Marion G. Romney
408 James A. CuUimore Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve
420 Annual Report for 1965 Hulda P. Young
430 Mexico City Claire W. Noall
Fiction
415 Wheat for the Wise — Chapter 6 Margery S. Stewart
Generai Features
402 From Near and Far
410 Editorial: A Relief Society History Making Event Belle S. Spafford
412 Editorial: The 136th Annual General Church Conference
414 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon
453 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities
480 Birthday Congratulations
Tlie i-iome- inside and Out
437 Festival of the Dolls
438 Antique Your Plastic Flowers Dorothy J. Roberts
442 Holiday in Rhjrme Bazaar
443 Kitchen Crafts on Display
443 Colorful Clown Attends Family Night Fun Bazaar
444 German Holiday Buffet Carla Sansom
445 Fun for Two Alice Willardson
447 The Gleaners (Millet) Floyd Breinholt
448 The Three Wise Men
449 Home Is a Place for Handicraft
452 Our Special Garden Helen M. Peterson
Lesson Department
460 Spiritual Living — Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Roy W. Doxey
462 Visiting Teacher Messages — Preview of Lessons for 1966-67
Alice Colton Smith
464 Homemaking — Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Celestia J. Taylor
466 Social Relations — Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Alberta H. Christensen
468 Cultural Refinement — Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Robert K. Thomas
471 Notes on New Authors of the Lessons
472 Homemaking — Does Your Home Have a Personality? Hazel S. Cannon
Poetry
401 My Town Christie Lund Coles
Lift the Heart to Gladness, Catherine B. Bowles, 407; Garden Kaleidoscope, Eva
Willes Wangsgaard, 440; Summer and Sleeping Bags, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 470;
The Morning Skies Are Fair and Bright, Vilate R. McAllister, 475; To a Hurt
Child, Alda L. Brown, 478; Absolutes, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 478; Wasted
Hours, Ruth G. Rothe, 478; My Hour, Pearle M. Olsen, 480.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Birthday Congratelatioas @ The birthday of beloved Emma Ray Riggs McKay is a time expressing love and appreciation, a time of gratitude for her prese among us. In this time of early summer when her home valley i radiant with blossoms, the birthday of Emma Ray Riggs McKay be observed. She has been the beloved wife, helpmate, and compani of President McKay for sixty-five years. The General Board of Reli Society and the members of the world-wide sisterhood extend | and greetings to a beautiful and exemplary woman who has expres in her own life the lofty and gracious ideals of devoted womanh Emma Ray Riggs McKay is appreciated by her children as a ki and loving mother who has accepted wholeheartedly the res sibilities of family life and has rejoiced in the abundant blessi that come to a woman in that all-important kingdom of the ho She has created and maintained a gracious atmosphere in many wa Her disciplined and lovely speaking voice has been greatly admi —her quiet words, her precise diction, and her way of finding kindest phrasing to bring the blessings of peace to her househo Her high regard for the proper function of words has been a mar cultural influence—slang words and incorrect grammar not bei permitted, but words used to speak of praise and approbation. In the various phases of her life, Sister McKay has endeavo to look upward and outward. She has sought the cultural influe which Relief Society women everywhere are seeking—the finest highest elements of art and music and literature. Wherever possi during her travels, she has visited the world-famous art galleries has sought to evaluate for herself the significance and the symboli of those masterpieces which have received the approbation of ages. She loves great and good music. Her favorite of the mas works is 'The Messiah"—that magnificent telling in music the of the Savior, the prophecies of his coming, and the eternal mess of the gospel. Literature has been Sister McKay's dear compani for many years, and scriptures have given her and the family c tinuing comfort and enlightenment. It is a far-reaching and exalted thought for a woman to reali that the haven of her home is the center of an ever-widening circle of influence. The sweet spirit of love and kindness and culture has been extended to the many guests in the McKay home, and to the thousands of Church members who have been privileged to meet Sister McKay personally. She has graciously responded to all those whom she has met in her journeyings with President McKay, for she has made communication of attitudes and ideals a unifying aspect of her life, carrying into all her associations the love and the refinement which have always been an adornment in her home, taking abroad and sharing her gifts and her accomplishments. 404 EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY AND CHILDREN Emma Rae (Mrs. Conway Ashton); Edward R. McKay (now Dr. Edward R. McKay); Robert R. McKay (the baby on Sister McKay's lap). In April, Sister McKay was given a special award ""Woman of the Year''—presented by the Associated Women Students of Brigham Young University, to "motivate and inspire women on the campus." A beautiful quilt made by the Relief Society of Honeyville Ward (Utah) was given to Sister McKay on this occasion. As Relief Society women, we express our love and deep appreciation for Sister McKay and extend to her congratulations for her birthday. 405 Spanish Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve 406 Min 1842, when the Reli Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, its objective was to "relieve the poor and to save souls." In other words, the women of the Church were to assume their share of the responsibility of carrying forward the work of the Lord. This, of course, was to be done under the direction of the Priesthood. With faith, courage, vision, and industry, the women of the Church have carried forward t objectives of the Relief Society to the present time. In the beginning, the messag of guidance given to the Reli Society by the Prophet Jose Smith, were carried by word 0 mouth to the sisters of the o ganization. Then, as the wo spread to outlying areas, es cially after the move to U and the western regions, the i structions and suggestions we made known by use of letters bulletins. The Relief Society was serv through the pages of the Wom an's Exponent from 1872, when i began publication under the direction of President Brigham Young, until it was discontinued inFebruary 1914. Eventually, in 1915, the Relief Society, with the approval of th First Presidency, began publishing its own Relief Society Magazine, "A monthly periodical— edited, managed, and published by the General Board of The Relief Society." You will note that it was from 1842 to 1915—a period of seventy-three years—before a Relief Society Magazine was mad available to the sisters through- out the English-speaking countries. Today, the Spanish-speaking Relief Society members constitute the greatest number next to the English-speaking members. As you know, the leaders of the missions have had access to the Magazine for many years, and have sent to Relief Society members, in bulletin form, many of the articles and suggestions, as well as the lessons. Now, at length, the Spanish-speaking sisters have the privilege of having the Magazine printed in the Spanish language, especially that they may use it in doing their part in "caring for the poor and in saving souls." In addition to the lessons and the helps found in the Magazine, there are "many literary, artistic, and practical articles, designed to improve our minds and beautify our homes," as stated in a letter announcing the first publi- 'cation of the Magazine. Personally, I am very grateful that, after these many years, the Spanish-speaking sisters may now LIFT THE HEART TO GLADNESS Catherine B. Bowles RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE IN SPANISH have access to the same material and inspiration as do the sisters near the headquarters of the Church. They need it. Their families need it. Much emphasis is — being placed, on the home, home teaching of the gospel and the responsibilities of the parents in bringing up their children in righteousness. In the Relief Society Magazine will be found many articles, stories, and suggestions that will have enrichment value, not only for Relief Society members and the Relief Society program, but that will interest and _ inspire their families. We hope that the Spanish sisters will make every possible effort to get this Magazine into every home in their branches, and that each will read and use it. We think that enlightenment and increased faith will result, and that ways and means will be made clear to the sisters of the Relief Society whereby they can participate in "caring for the poor and saving souls." Kind words are like the flowers That brighten the shadowed day And lift the heart to gladness Above the troubled way. When unkind words are spoken That wound the tender heart, God in his infinite mercy Will love and strength impart. The fragrance of life, is measured -By deeds of lasting worth— Each act a flower of goodness To brighten the path of earth. 407 w At the opening session of the 136th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1966, James Alfred Cullimore, a devoted and experienced Church leader, was appointed as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, making a present total of twelve Assistants to the Council. Elder Cullimore was bom in Pleasant Grove, Utah, January 17, 1906, and was graduated from Pleasant Grove High School. At Brigham Young University, he was president of the senior class, and president of the student body. In these positions his outstanding qualities of leadership and his remarkable executive ability were evident. He received his Master's degree from the New York University School of Retailing. He was married in the Salt Lake Temple, June 3, 1931, to Grace Gardner of Spanish Fork. They have two daughters, Luella and Nancy, and a son Kelvyn. Church service began at an early age for Elder Cullimore and has continued throughout his life. During his mission in California (1925-27), he was made a district president. He was Timpanogos Stake Sunday School superintendent, branch president 408 Elder James Alfred Cullim in Sioux City, Iowa, and in th Oklahoma City Branch. Later, h became district president in th West Oklahoma District, Centr, States Mission, a position he hel for nine years. In 1960 he w sustained as the first presiden of Oklahoma Stake. Shortly afte this appointment, he was called to be president of the Central British Mission, where he served for two and a half years. During his presidency, many outstanding accomplishments were made, including the completion of the building of the Merthyr-Tydfil meetinghouse in time for its dedication by President David O. McKay, whose mother and her ancestors had lived in that area of Wales. Also, during his presidency, the distribution of The Book of Mormon increased from fifty to 300 a week, converts increased, and the gospel was made known to thousands by a vigorous and well-directed program which was carried to many new Elder Cullimore and His Family ' Standing at the back: Elder Cullimore; seated at the left: Grace ' Gardner Cullimore; at the right: Nancy Marie Cullimore; inset at left: Kelvin Henry Cullimore; at right: Grace Luella Cullimore Payne (Mrs. Cities and villages where Church organizations had not previously functioned. His great ability in leadership and management has served him well in business. He has been associated with Gimble Brothers of New York City and also Mandel Brothers in Chicago. In Oklahoma, during the past twenty years, he has established one of the largest furniture firms in the state, and, in 1960, he was given the Fourth Annual Alumni Achievement Award by the New York University School of Retailing Alumni Association. Elder Cullimore's outgoing and optimistic personality invites conDale Payne). Fidence and respect, and his influence among his associates in Church and community activities is uplifting and inspirational. The General Board of Relief Society and the Relief. Society members in the stakes and missions of the Church are pleased and gratified that Elder Cullimore has been made a General Authority, and they welcome his gracious and accomplished wife. In his address as a new General Authority, Elder Cullimore expressed humility in his calling and said "... Only by virtue of the strength I receive from the Lord can I become a good servant." 409 EDITORIAL @ it must have been an impressive occasion that Thursday afternoon 124 years ago when eighteen sisters attentively listened to their beloved leader, the Prophet Joseph Smith, say, ''l now declare this Society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usages—and all who shall hereafter be admitted to this Society must be free from censure and be received by vote.'' These were women residing in what was then a western frontier town of the United States called Nauvoo. The sisters had accepted the restored gospel of Christ and had within them a-burning desire to do their part in the work of the Church. They believed that if they could be formed into a Ladies Society whereby their means and efforts might be combined, they could more effectively serve, particularly with regard to the Nauvoo Temple. They had sought an organization at the hands of the Prophet, and under the inspiration of the Lord, he had organized them under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood, a unique organization for women in all the world. Addressing the eighteen women assembled on that memorable occasion of the founding of Relief Society, Elder John Taylor, who had accompanied the Prophet to the meeting, said that he ''rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the laws of Heaven... And to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner.'' He praye that "'the blessings of Heaven might rest on this institution henceforth." As the years have moved along, hundreds of thousands of women residing in many parts of the world have rejoiced that this Society was organized. They have seen it move forward, blessed of Heaven. Through the years the sisters of Relief Society have given loyal, devoted, and unselfish service to the Priesthood. They have ministered to the downtrodden; they have nursed the sick and fed the hungry; they have sustained those whose souls were weary. Through the Society the graces of lovely womanhood have been nurtured, and the arts and skills of glorious motherhood have been developed. Talents have been enlarged upon and put to worthy uses. Volume 53 JULY 1966 Number 6 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Coun @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer The sisters have been blessed individually and collectively, as they have labored in the fulfillment of the purposes set for the Society by God's chosen prophets. It was a blessed day, indeed, when, as an aid in furthering the work of this organization, the Society was given a Magazine of its own, ''to be edited, managed, and published by the General Authorities of the Society.'' This publication has served as the voice of Relief Society. It has helped to unify and standardize the work. It has served as a lesson manual for the educational courses. It has been an outlet for the literary aspirations of Latter-day Saint women. Its contents have been animated by the spirit of the gospel and its gospel teaching articles by Priesthood and Relief Society leaders have strengthened faith and built testimonies. In the Centenary of Relief Society, issued on the hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, we read, ''This Magazine belongs by right to every woman of the Church.'' While language barriers stand in the way of full realization of this at the present time, a great step forward has been made as the Magazine becomes available in Spanish for the many Spanish-speaking sisters throughout the Church. The General Board rejoices that this instrument which has proven so valuable to the English-speaking sisters and such an important factor in the strength of their Relief Societies, may now intimately touch and influence the lives of the Spanish-speaking sisters and reach into their Relief Societies as a bulwark of strength. The advent of The Relief Society Magazine in the Spanish language is a history-making event. May it bless our beloved Spanish-speaking sisters. May it bless their homes. May it bless their families. May it be a truly effective instrument in helping the Spanish-speaking Relief Societies to move forward in an even more glorious manner, is our earnest prayer. —B. S. S Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West 412 The 136th Annu @ The Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 6, 9, and 10, 1966, commemorating the 136th anniversary of the organization of the Church. Once more carrying a message of faith, devotion, and inspiration, the proceedings were carried to far countries and across the oceans by short wave radio. Many television and radio stations in Canada and the United States gave precedence to a broadcast of the meetings. The General Authorities, except President Thorpe B. Isaacson, who was ill in the hospital, were present at the conference. President David O. McKay, now in his ninety-third year, presided at all the sessions and addressed three of the meetings. A pervading theme was reflected throughout the conference— faith in God, the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, the reality of the resurrection, a profound belief in the second coming, and a forward progression of all those worthy of exaltation in the eternities. At the opening session a new General Authority was sustained. James Alfred Cullimore of Oklahoma was appointed an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. In his address on Saturday, the day before Easter, President McKay called upon the world to recognize and worship Jesus and acknowledge his literal resurrection. General Church Conference When Christians throughout the world have this faith coursing in their veins, when they feel a loyalty in their hearts to the resurrected Christ, and to the principles connoted thereby, mankind will have taken the first great step toward the perpetual peace toward which we daily are praying.... The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints declares to all the world that Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. No true follower is satisfied to accept him merely as a great reformer, the ideal teacher, or even as the one perfect man. The Man of Galilee is... Literally the Son of the Living God. President Hugh B. Brown declared a powerful testimony of the truth and reality of the resurrection of Jesus. We reaffirm our faith in the Bible as the word of God. We believe its teachings, its doctrines, its definitions and revelations of an omnipotent and omniscient God. The fact that man was created in his image confirms our faith that he is living and personal. He is our Eternal Father, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the Jehovah of the Old Testament, and the promised Messiah. We proclaim the preexistence and divine nature of Jesus the Christ, the purpose of his earth life, the reality of his resurrection.... President N. Eldon Tanner spoke with great concern about the growing tendency throughout the world to deny the existence of the living God. The issue, then, becomes quite clear, that it is not what kind of God man can believe in, but what kind of man does the Living God reach.... In order for life to have a purpose... It is necessary that we be willing to admit the possibility that God does exist.... All down through the ages prophets have borne testimony that they have talked with God.... Hundreds of thousands of individuals scattered throughout the world today can bear testimony that their prayers have been answered in many ways. President Joseph Fielding Smith devoted his remarks to calling attention to the "'signs of the times.'' He said: Shall we slumber on in utter oblivion or indifference to all that the Lord has given us as warning.... Many things have happened during the past one hundred and thirty-six years to impress faithful members of the Church with the fact that the coming of the Lord is near. The gospel has been restored. The Church has been fully organized. The Priesthood has been conferred upon man. The various dispensations from the beginning have been revealed and their keys and authorities given to the Church. In a heartfelt blessing to all the saints, at the close of conference, President McKay in speaking his appreciation to the saints for their loyal and willing response to calls for service in extending the work of the Lord at home and abroad, gave a scriptural admonition: ''... Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness." 413 . - —_ % Prime Minister Indira Ghandi of India in March became the first woman head of a country to visit the President of the United States. The Ambassador to India, Chester Bowles, was the first representative of a foreign power to call on the new Prime Minister, and on that occasion extended to Mrs. Ghandi an invitation from President Johnson to visit him in Washington. The President is arranging for the United States, in cooperation with other nations, to send about twelve million tons of food to India to help feed her starving millions. The payment will be in Indian money (rupees), which will purchase products from India. Crown Princess Beatrix of Holland, twenty-eight years old, on March 10th married Claus von Amsberg, thirty-nine years old, a former German diplomat. They hope to stem the tide of disapproval among some Dutch people, because of his nationality, by serving Holland loyally and wisely. Peggy Fleming, a seventeen-year-old high school student from Colorado Springs, U. S. A., with her ''flawless'' skating won the woman's world _ iceskating championship in Davos, Switzerland, on February 27. Frances Carter Yost, prolific writer for The Relief Society Magazine and other Church and non-Church publications, has just published a new book "That They Might Know Thee"' (Deseret Book Company). 414 os Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Hisako Nakahara was crowned Japan's Cherry Blossom Queen in Tokyo in la March. Her crown contains 976 pea set in 800 grams of gold. She went Washington, D. C., U. S. A., to attend t Cherry Blossom Festival, beginning o April 12. The Japanese presented t cherry trees to the United Sta Government in 1912. At the height o their spring blossoming, they prese a sight never to be forgotten. Dianna Lynn Batts, a recent convert tc the Church, from Falls Chure Virginia, is the present Miss USA ar placed second in the Miss World co test in London last fall. In an addr to 4,000 seminary students in the Sa Lake Tabernacle, Miss Batts urged t students to remain loyal to Chur standards at all times. She was member of Bob Hope's troupe in | three grueling weeks in Viet Nam tc entertain service men at Christmé time. Frances G. Knight is the United States Passport office director, and inthat position must be informed on the loyalty of Americans traveling abroad. Madeleine Helfrey, director of research and programming at the Utah State Training School for the mentally retarded, was appointed in March to President Johnson's Advisory Board on Mental Retardation, one of eight persons throughout the United State to serve on this board. Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart Chapter 6 Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes after some years that her family needs the blessings of spirituality and religious training. Somewhat reluctantly, Rex agrees to a trial period of one year in which Jennie and the children have his permission to participate in Church activities. Jennie feels that they are making definite progress and that family unity and cooperation are helping them to achieve rich spiritual blessings. @ Even before Jennie put down her groceries, she could tell something drastic had happened to her family. She could tell by the way Rex went out without speaking and drove off with a furious spinning of tires; by the way the white cat Billy had given her crouched under the kitchen table. By Lora's quietness when she went upstairs to investigate. "They had a big fight," Lora said, 'and would you like some hot cocoa? I just made some." Jennie drank the pretended cocoa at a gulp. "Who had a fight?" "Daddy and Lance. Lance is going to run away." Jennie hastily surrendered the. Doll cup and went in search of her son. She found him in the: garage, examining his sleeping bag. "Isn't January a bit cold for that sort of thing?" He did not answer. His face was turned away from her. His fingers worried the clasps of the bag. "What happened between you and your father?" Jennie sat on her heels beside him. She ran her hand through his stiff browning hair. Once his hair had been as golden as Lora's; once it had been as soft as Johnnie's. But now it was as unyielding as his face. "That's between Dad and me."' Lance was growing up. Jennie stood up uncertainly. No probing, she decided. She turned to go. 415 JUNE 1966 "But he can't keep me from going to Mutual and being a Scout and going on a mission." Jennie shivered. The father and son relationship, one of the pleasantest in the family, was seemingly in a state of chaos. "Tl ask him," Jennie said guardedly. She made dinner, served it to a silent and heavy-eyed family. No one seemed to want to look at anyone else. Rex did not meet her eyes. He was remote, crisp, and plainly girded for battle. Then Jennie cleared the table, washed the dishes with Sabra's help, bathed Johnny and Lora, and sent the older ones to their rooms to study. The house was quiet. She went into the family room and set up the ironing board before the television. But Rex did not come in to keep her company and she did not turn on the screen. She heard Rex go out again. She ironed shirts and hung them on hangers, fourteen shirts a week... Twenty-one it would be when Johnny was out of the knit stage. "Billy's cat,' which had been officially named "Samantha," and was still called "Billy's Cat," came and rubbed against her ankles. Jennie took a moment to worry about Billy. He had skipped his last lesson. Why? He was doing very well, really reading. He was not fast, he was not always accurate, and his spelling was atrocious. But he could read better and better all the time. His teacher had taken heart and was helping him after school, too. Jennie called Mrs. Wentworth and was rewarded by learning that Billy had been ill, and she, 416 Mrs. Wentworth, had been too busy to call. Billy would be back on Monday. Jennie put down the phone and lit the gas logs in the fireplace. Without Rex, the house — seemed cold and friendless. She gnawed on the worrisome bone of Rex and Lance's behavior at dinner, cold enmity on Lance's part, an equally cold determination on Rex's. The doorbell rang and Jennie went to answer it. Two men stood under the porch light, the bishop and the Mutual superintendent, Jimmy Owens. Jennie smiled and asked them in. 4 "The fact of the matter is," the bishop boomed, "'you've done ( such a good job with your Trekkers that we've come to ask you to help us on another little chore." "Little?"' asked Jennie hopefully. "It's the road show," said the superintendent. '"'We've been a ward for ten years and we've never won a road show yet to make it even harder, our drama director is having a baby about then." The bishop smiled. "With your talent with the Trekkers, we thought you would be a natural for this." Jennie sat back aghast. "But I've never even seen a road show." "T'll help," said Jim Owens. "We just want you to write a ten-minute skit that will win the first prize, that's all." "But if it doesn't win?" Jennie asked, a sudden picture of a ward full of disappointed faces floating before her. "Everyone will understand," said the bishop, laughter crinkling his eyes. Jennie laughed with him. Un- derstanding was sometimes as painful as uttered fury. "T'll ask my husband,' she said. "If he says I may I would like to try it." When they had gone she went back and finished the ironing. She looked at the kitchen clock as she put the board away, twelvethirty. Where could Rex be? He came after another stretch of waiting. She heard his car in the driveway and the sound of the garage door slamming open and, after a moment, slamming vigorously shut. He was still in a bad mood. She braced herself for whatever might be the reason. Rex came in through the kitchen door. ''Can't those kids remember to put anything away!" "What was it?" "Lora's sled!'"? He rubbed his ankle bone. Jennnie put the iron away in silence. Rex slammed the refrigerator door. 'Someone ate the last one to Billy's cat." "Oh, Rex... I didn't know you wanted one. I gave the last one to Billy's Cat." Silence. Jennie stacked sheets. "IT suppose Lance told you," he said at last. "He didn't tell me anything." "Oh." All the wind was taken out of his sails. "Do you want to tell me?" she asked. _"T wouldn't give my permission for his baptism, nor Sabra's."' She slid into a chair. "Ah." Pain found the hollow under her ribs and filled it with ice. She could not speak because of the pain. Yet it was not physical pain. It was a new kind, like a dark knife probing. She thought of Lance's stubborn efforts to learn all the ArtiWHEAT FOR THE WISE cles of Faith. '""Then he can't be a deacon," she said. "That's right." "He'll be twelve next week, you know. He wanted to be a deacon so very much." Rex came over to the table and leaned on his knuckles. "I am not convinced." "T am, Lance is, so is Sabra."' "They don't know what truth is." She looked at him curiously. "Do you?" He turned away and paced the floor. "They are growing away from us." "Not from me." She put out her hand, but she could not say, "You are the lonely hunter." He came back to lean on the table again. ""No baptisms." She said, "It is not the end of the year. Do you insist we leave it all?" "No." He moved irresolutely about. "Only nothing final, irrevocable I am still the captain of this ship." "You are the captain of the ship," she agreed. When it had been quiet for a long time, and she realized that he wanted to end the subject, she asked him, "Do you mind if I take another job?" '"'What kind of a job?" He was instantly curious. "Road show." '""What's that?" She explained as much as she knew. He said, "I can't help you, I've got a class coming up to teach stocks and bonds stuff." She thought a moment. "But you don't mind if I go ahead?" "No, not if you can handle it." He went upstairs to bed. Jennie sat in the silent kitchen. 417 JUNE 1966 Should she do it? She thought of Lance, who needed something to take up all his energy and his thoughts at this particular time. She thought also of Sabra, who needed a vicarious outlet for her own talents. She thought of the boys and girls of other families, who might be going through far more galling things than she or hers. She fasted and prayed and composed a road show that would include most of the Mutual and all of her own children. The Starr family ate road show, drank it, and swam in it, Rex morosely stated, when he went to take a quiet bath and found the tub filled with red dye and tinting sheets. "Tt's for the gypsies," Sabra explained. "They all have red skirts and they do this dance... Let me show you." Rex looked from his daughter's lifted, glowing face to Jennie's weary one. ""There won't be much left of you by the time this deal is over." "T'll survive," Jennie assured him. "If we win, I'll really lose ten years." "And if you don't?" Jennie shuddered. She thought of sixty-seven downcast faces. She said hesitantly, "We need someone to drive us to the stake house." "Tl do it,"' said Rex. Jennie looked at him in surprise. He sounded as eager as any member of the enormous cast. After a frantic day, the road show went on. Jennie, weak and limp from helping to make up some thirty faces, watched from the back of the hall. She thought it was good. The audience seemed to like it. Hope began a happy 418 flutter in the pit of her stomach. But when the spokesman for the judges came out and announced that first prize had gone to the rival ward, Jennie fled into the night. Once outside, however, with the tears outside her, instead of in, she rallied her courage and went back in to comfort sixtyseven disappointed thespians. She was received with wild acclaim. Her show had won second place and sixty-seven voices in fanatic loyalty were trying to point out to her, at once, the hideous bias of the judges. They related shrilly the comments of friends and relatives, whose judgment coincided with theirs. It was all a hideous mistake, which no one really could blame anyone else for certainly. In sixty-seven fervent minds all glory was theirs. Rex drove her home. Johnny slept in Jennie's arms, none the worse for his experience. The other children were coming home with the neighbors. Rex looked at her narrowly. "Go to bed for a week," he ordered, "'you're all hollows." "T never felt so well," she protested, "'so relaxed... Did you ever in all your life hear so many kind words?" She turned them over in her mind, still enchanted by the thought of herself as a successful director. "T never did, '"' Rex assured her, "and never was praise more justified."" He held her hand. "I was very proud of you... Very proud, indeed." He patted her cheek. "Especially when the judges awarded first place to the other ward. You were the picture of serenity." Jennie could not help laughing. She wondered when she would tell him about the tears falling forlornly about her as she stood shivering in the January chill. Never, she thought. After all, when one has not quite measured up, it's better to keep it to oneself. Rex said thoughtfully. '""Those youngsters really impressed me." "How?"' He shook his head. "Where do you drive a carload of teenagers around nowadays, and hear not one word of profanity, smell no cigarette smoke, and not one other thing out of line, either?" She reached for his hand. Any other man would probably be criticising the youngsters for their noise or their pushing, or finding some fault. She was grateful to Rex, for seeing only, in this instance, the good. She put Johnny to bed while Rex was putting the car away. She sat down in the family room to wait for the others. Lance was first. "Tt was great." He went to the kitchen to find makings for a sandwich. "You looked pretty tonight, too," he yelled at her, "somebody said you did, forget who.. "Thank you, Lance," she called, "go easy on the mayonnaise. I forgot to get some today." "Ah, gosh, Mom. I hate tuna without a lot of mayonnaise. O. K." He came back with a tray of sandwiches and a glass and the milk bottle. She winced at the bottle, but said nothing, not tonight. He said, "I guess I won't go back any more though." Alarm suffused her. "Go back where?" "To Church and all that stuff. It's not worth it." She said gently. "Put down WHEAT FOR THE WISE your sandwich, Lance, and come over here." He obeyed her and she pushed out a chair and motioned him to sit. He was puzzled and wary. "What do you want? What do you want me to sit here for? Gosh, Mom, my _ sandwich is getting dry." "Have you read The Book of Mormon, Lance?"' "Not all the way through." "What do you think of it?" He was puzzled. "It's great that is parts are that is, what I can understand is." "Do you believe it?" He looked at her in amazement. "Sure? Why not?" "Then why drop out of the line?" "What line?"' "The iron rod line?" He looked her in the eye. "Because I can't stand not to be with Dad all the way. He's the best one in the whole town." She considered. '"'Are you going to stop praying for him?" "e.'' "Are you going to stop doing what you know is right?" "No... Of course not. Dad wouldn't think much of me if I did." She smiled and rumpled his hair. "There are cookies in the freezer. Get them out and let them thaw." He stood up. He answered her smile. "I get you I'm with you, Mom all the way." He hesitated. 'Will we win?" She said softly, "The big and burning question is, will your Dad win? Right?" "Right," he said, "on account of without him, it just wouldn't be any fun." (To be concluded) 419 42] 1965 Annual Report Growth, accomplishment, and dedicated service mark the achievements of Relief Societies throughout the world during 1965. Evidence of this was observed as General Board members visited every stake in the Church and some missions at the time of stake quarterly conferences. It was confirmed in the reports received at the General Board -office covering the works and activities of the 6,662 stake, mission, district, ward, and branch organizations located in 53 countries through the world. The influence of this work directed to the building of Latter-day Saint homes, to care of the poor and the sick, to the comforting of the downtrodden and bereaved, to uplifting and developing each individual member, and to the saving of souls has been felt by hundreds of thousands who have been recipients of its services, and of its cultural offerings, and participants in its meetings and activities. More than 12,000 new Relief Society members were enrolled during the year, swelling our ranks to 286,820 members of this world-wide sisterhood. Many other sisters who were already members of Relief Society have also been brought into greater activity in the program through the conducting of evening, in addition to daytime, sessions of Relief Society. These evening sessions have been appreciated by working mothers and single women who were unable to attend daytime sessions. More Relief Societies have also been organized on college campuses where intelligent, enthusiastic young girls are becoming imbued with the program of the organization. Organizations and members in foreign-speaking countries are rejoicing over the greater amount of program materials, lessons, standard record books, and instructions that are being made available to them in their own languages and which are greatly strengthening the work there. At the four weekly meetings of the Society to which increasing numbers of sisters have been in attendance, L. D. S. Women have been instructed in gospel principles, in ideas that exalt and ennoble womanhood, in truths that help them to achieve a peace in the midst of a troubled world. They have received practical instruction in homemaking skills and in the development of their creative abilities. Through the Priesthood coordinated course taught the forepart of the year in the work meeting and the latter part of the year in the social science meeting, they have received guidance on developing family unity through improved social relations in the home, and on applying the gospel in the lives of family members. In the literature meeting, now to be known as the cultural refinement meeting, the sisters have learned to share the wonders, wisdom, and delights of good reading with family members. Through the program of Relief Society as directed by the General Priesthood leaders of the Church, mothers have been helped to see their role with their husbands in the new family home evening program, and Relief Society leaders have been guided in so pointing the program of the organization as to help mothers be more effective in their functions related to the family home evening. A vast corps of more than 125,000 visiting teachers have continued the devoted service started in the early days of Relief Society in Nauvoo of visiting every L. D. S. Family ''to search out the poor and suffering." in fulfilling this sacred calling visiting teachers have brought inspiration through the messages they have discussed in the homes; they have comforted the homebound and aged sisters, many of whom are living in rest homes; and they have endeavored to cause all whom they have visited to know of Relief Society's interest in them which would give them a feeling of belonging. Through the divinely inspired program of Relief Society, nearly 189,000 devoted and dedicated leaders have continued to carry forward the work for which the organization was originally established and as presently directed by the presiding Priesthood of the Church. The leaders themselves have increased in their abilities and in their spirituality as they have rendered this service. Through the united efforts of leaders and members, Relief Society in 1965 fulfilled its function as an aid to the Priesthood in helping to build the kingdom. General Secretary-Vfeasurer 1965 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION of Relief Society Organizations and Members in the United States Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Dist. Of Columbi Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Hlinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri — 338 11,864 38 39,595 3,799 64 Ba 697 1,864?91 1,516 27,46) 653 487 12,064 283 39,957 3,898 697 2,316 1.172 2,278 27 46) 1,576 1.114 586 598 638 7385 396 598 463 Afghanistan Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Bermuda Brazil Canada 102 Chile Cook Islands Costa Rica Denmark El Salvador England Fiji Islands Finland Formosa France Germany Greece Guam Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Ireland Italy in Other Countries Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming 1965 U. S. Totals 1964 U. S. Totals ~~ wma TY « mo 3 ee 236,158 224,145 211 708 358 dts 771 126 165 470 435 55! 4,680 248, 897 236,978 Japan Korea Lebanon Mexico Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Norway Okinawa Panama Canal Zo Paraguay Peru Philippine Island Poland Puerto Rico Samoa Scotland Spain Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Tonga Turkey Union of So. Afric Uruguay Wales Totals United States Other Countries Grand Total 3 an" s- 4.159 t 688 5, 847 286.820 Five Year Membership Growth increase 72,618 425 MEMBERSHIP Membership (Total) In Stakes In Missions Non-L. D. S. Members LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Serve Leaders in the Society Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Ward and Branch Executive Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers ORGANIZATIONS Organizations (Total) Stake and Mission Organizations (Total) Stakes Missions Mission Districts Ward and Branch Organizations (Total) In Stakes In Missions 286,820 247,395 39,425 2,378 ed as 188,827 4,686 1,387 22,071 11,899 23,789 125,095 6,662 815 411 mS 3611 5,847 3,902 1,945 274,703 234,778 39,925 2,412 182,966 4,568 Ls 21,596 lide, 567 2y2 51 120,611 6,531 796 400 74 322 5) 78S 3,785 1,950 12,117+ 12,617+ 500 — 34 — L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions NON-L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers Non-L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers Visiting Teacher Districts Family Visits (Total) Home Not Home Per Cent at Home 568,631 463,265 105,366 9,543 7,017 2,526 68,008 4,591,741 3,006,646 1,585,095 65.48% Communications in Lieu of Visits, 136,782 125,095 559,795 453,751 106,044 10,779 7,029 3,750 120,611 64,531 4,466,668 2,949,996 1,516,672 66.04% 150,352 8,836+ 9,514+ 678 — 4,484 + 3,477 + 125,073 + 56,650 + 68,423 + Ie 13,570 — An average of 9.4 visits was made in the stakes to each family in 1965 An average of 8 visits was made Church-wide to each family in 1965 Apnjg jadsoyg yGnosyy Gutarz penjiasids Ist 29 O/E pot Ope TO! 26S lIf L265 SIT 5600 91 981 ¢6 S6T S80T BO? E d ' DOF BOC p SHB £4 (8G'Zl 8za'le POE'gE E02' 26l 2c6 792 JONVGNIALLY JOVUFAV SONILIIW volempy Guiyeuauoy QOE'U! 419 82 | £iG 8 ybnosy, juawabeueyy pjoyasnoy SUIDI44O NOISSIW GNV JWV1S AB SLISIA 9126; -_ Wl v eta: = «? Ad 4 SOS US ab bei Eve 0ze'98 P46'601 aDIAMAaS 3HVITIM HISNHOD EL9 £60'S OZ2'S6 e9ec O06 C9E 2c 612 BOF E92 # Siv 68 615 08 B19 4¢ 966 2624 Bic £821 INIMIS COMPASSIONATE SERVICE SINGING MOTHERS MAGAZINE 23,153 397,224 673,290 854 10,429 4,148 3,249 899 Family Unity Through Social Relations = - SS; ( Amn \) i i= 4 AWS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Cultural Refinement Through The Arts Teotihuacan \ e*e Pyramid of the Sun \ Temple of Quetzacoat! \ + Ixtacihuatl 17,343' + Popocateptl Cuernavaca 17,887' » | @ Mexico City sits like a queen on her ancient mexXicd plain, more than 7,000 feet in altitude. In the spiritual heart of this capital are entwined unr told elements of time and civilizations whose polarities are worlds apart. Yet from this manyCl y colored band, from the repetitive rise and fall in the ways of man, a massive strength has emerged, a strength born of the welding of Claire W. Noall opposites through more than half a millennium of time. Through the firm clasp of brotherhood, the Latter-day Saints of the city are extending their feeling of unity. Matthew and I drove in from the southwest. After leaving flat Toluca Valley, we were suddenly in the midst of the dark volcanic peaks which rose in chaos at our elbows. Even more impressive were the violet-misted summits of the distant horizon. The Valley of Mexico, some sixty by thirty miles in dimension, is all but surrounded by these cumbres. At our side, a deep canyon dropped abruptly in a wooded thrust. Descending the winding slopes, we traversed a light-shafted pine forest; then, almost before we knew it, Highway 15 became the Paseo de la Reforma and we were intersecting the city on one of the world's handsomest boulevards. Quickly we recognized the resemblance to Europe's Champs Elysées of Paris, and to El Prado of Madrid. We later learned that Maximilian had landscaped three miles of this highway for his entrance to the palace in Chapultepec Park. 430 MEXICO CITY As we proceeded alongside, we loved the cool expanse of the park, with its two and three-hundred-year-old trees, voleanic boulders, and its winding waterways. Apartments and fine homes presently rose to our right. Columns and statues breathed their own splendor, with their lawns, pools, and fountains. To our left, the park opened wide, and we caught a glimpse of the completely modern buildings of the Anthropological Museum. On the grounds stands an ancient, 167-ton stone statue of Tlaloc, the Aztec god of rain. As modern as that is ancient, is the architecture of the fountain that plays in the first courts of the museum. Down a canopy-shaded steel column it sparkles some forty-two feet to the pool below. We found a day in this museum much too brief for what we wished to see. One day we left the lower part of the Reforma to visit El Zécalo the center of the Aztec capital for 200 years; later the heart of the Spanish colonial city. Today, Mexico's capital has a population of over five million and there is nothing left of Lake Texcoco, where the Aztecs, being banished by their neighbors, had built their city Tenochtitlan on two islands which they connected with long causeways. When the Spaniards came, the city had been 200 years in building. It had a population of over 300,000 citizens. And from the borders of El Zocalo rose resplendent pyramids, a temple, a palace, and a magnificent altar to the sun god. The Aztecs had filled wicker baskets with earth to develop floating gardens upon which they could raise life-giving plants. For the last sixty years before the Conquistadores arrived, they had dominated almost all the other cultures in their entire country—an incredible feat in terms of foot soldiers who climbed and descended enormously high divides, only to crest still other slopes, and then trail down to sea level again. Tribute came from this extended rule, and when the Spanish arrived, the Aztecs were wealthy in gold and buildings of almost unimaginable magnificence. Mochtezuma II, great-grandson of Mochtezuma I, who united this vast kingdom, bowed to Hernan Cortés without a struggle, thinking that the White God of prophecy had arrived. A year later, in an uprising of his people, he was executed. Meanwhile, the Spanish had commenced the job that left no stone standing of this marvelous array. With the help of Aztec slaves and with the use of Aztec masonry, they built their own structures around El Zocalo, including a large and highly gilded cathedral, and a national palace, the residency of the viceroys. Today, on this square, only one small pit of Aztec stones survives. But, fortunately, the Spanish did not destroy the calendar stone of El Zocalo. The Aztecs had worked out a more accurate system for telling time than then existed in Europe. This thirty-ton treasure is now mounted beside a pool in front of the Anthropological Museum. The conjunction of the old with the new is frequently repeated in today's capital. In the Palace of Fine Arts, styled in Mayan, Mixtec, and classical architecture, folk arts are displayed alongside aristocratic regalia once worn by grandees. On the stage that is screened by a 431 JUNE 1966 remarkable glass curtain from Tiffany's, New York, the Folklérico Ballet depicts historic phases of every Mexican province. The rhythms, the singing, and the playing of guitars, and more primitive instruments, all on stage, weave a thrilling spell for the informed spectator. The dancers are costumed in the bright-feathered green of the Aztecs, and in silks and cottons in scarlet, blue, black, white, and gold. The Floating Gardens indicate their own importance when considered in the light of the past. Some fourteen miles southeast of Mexico City, Xochimileo was once the home of Aztec nobles. The language is still spoken in this municipality. The canals are all that remain of former Lake Chaleo. Three lakes once all but covered the Valley of Mexico. The Spanish drained them, for during the rainy season Mexico City was often flooded. Drouth ensued, and part of the rich inheritance from Spain are several long, expertly constructed aqueducts, such as the one at Morelia, here shown. But all that is left of the three lakes are the Floating Gardens of Xochimilco—a colorful sight when the "tourist barges," decorated with artificial flowers, are filled. Visitors may reach for the fresh and brilliant carnations offered for sale by Indian women who, with swift, proud strokes, row their dugout canoes alongside the barges in the canals. Unlike the ancient nature of the Gardens is the architecture of University City, also located in a municipality outside Mexico City. Into this astounding complex the university moved in 1952. Today's enrollment exceeds 52,000 students. Every building is faced at least on one: side with mosaics of natural-colored stone, which portray both ancient and modern history. The north and west walls of the tower of the central library are decorated with stone murals by Juan O'Gorman. Still unknown is the history of the religious center at San Juan Teotihuacan, some twenty-nine miles northeast of Mexico City, an area apparently constructed by an unknown people, the Teotihuacanos, at least 1,000 years ago. This zone was later inhabited by the Toltecs; then by the Aztecs. Within a seven-mile square, pyramids and temples once shone resplendent in the bright sunlight, painted in ochre and scarlet. At the end of a two-mile avenue stands the largest structure of its kind known to the Americas, the ancient Pyramid of the Sun. It rises over 200 feet and measures almost 700 feet at its base. The adobe bricks were once faced with volcanic stone and covered with cement. A stairway on the west provides access to five terraces and to the top of the pyramid. The plaza was paved with voleanic stones, and facing one side of the square was the Temple of Quetzalcoatl, the god of the plumed serpent. A pyramidal corridor of this temple is decorated with row upon row of plumed snakes' heads, a common motif among the ancient peoples of this part of the Americas. After 1930 the real democratization of Mexico began. In 1940 the skyscrapers commenced to rise, one of which reached forty-four stories. Today, in this conjunction of the new with the old, one of the most 432 TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR MORELIA AQUEDUCT Built by the Spaniards in 1789, when the city was known as Valodolid. The round arches, made of stone, support the aqueduct for carryin water. EN ROUTE FROM TOLUCA TO MEXICO CITY Leaving the desert plain, we suddenly entered the area of deep canyons and volcanic peaks. / PYRAMID OF THE SUN This majestic pyramid, northeast of Mexico City, rising to a height of 216 feet, is composed of five terraces. The upper terrace served as the base for an imposing temple, which has long since been destroyed. BELOW Detail of the plumed serpent head—QuetzalcoatI—on a temple which faces the | avenue that leads to the Pyramid of the Sun. MEXICO CITY beautiful cities in the world has taken shape. Off to the southeast on a clear day can be seen the snowy summits of the ''guardian" volcanoes, Popocatépetl and Ixtacihuatl. Industrialization has produced ever-increasing traffic on the boulevards. Handsome hotels are so crowded that reservations for visitors are necessary, sometimes weeks ahead. And in the heart of the city The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is now permitted to own property and to build chapels. On October 8, 1879, a group of brethren was called by President John Taylor to go to Mexico City. This was in response to the appeal of a man who requested the elders. Moses Thatcher, a leader, assisted especially by James Z. Stewart and Brother Meliton G. Tréjo, a convert who served as interpreter, arrived in Mexico City by way of New Orleans and Vera Cruz. Eight days later, on November 23, 1879, a branch of the Church was organized. In 1889, when the elders were withdrawn from the country owing to the prevailing unrest, the branch had 250 members. In 1901 the mission was reopened under the supervision of John Henry Smith, Anthony W. Ivins, Helaman Pratt, and Ammon M. Tenney. UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF MEXICO One of the many dramatic mosaics which face individual buildings in the university complex. JUNE 1966 Before any elder had ever entered Mexico City, a horesback company had penetrated the country from El Paso, Texas. The company left Salt Lake City in 1875. They spent nine months under the stars. Although they had been warned not to go into Mexico, they rode as far as Chihuahua by way of El Paso. And Brother Pratt, being without fear, continued on, to visit the Yaqui Indians in northern Mexico, who | still follow their ancient and primitive ways. In 1913, the elders had to withdraw once more from Mexico City. Brother Pratt corresponded with the Church members and visited the branch in the capital city whenever possible. Today, the Church has a school system comprising several elementary schools, and one high school in Mexico City. Whenever possible, Mexican-born teachers and administrators are appointed. And now, instead of being taught entirely in Spanish, the schools are taught one half in English. The bishops of the wards are Mexicans. In the capital, a stake is organized with several wards. The spirit. Of brotherhood contributes to a highly favorable kind of unity, and so we find a welcome in this city of international culture. THE FLOATING GARDENS OF XOCHIMILCO Tourist-laden, flower-bedecked barges create a gala atmosphere for the ancient canals. festival of the dolls South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Eighth Ward Bazaar @ The "Raggedy Ann Tree" at the left is a peach tree bough sprayed with blue paint and ornamented with colorfully dressed dolls—boy dolls and girl dolls—clown dolls and storybook dolls. Fancy blue dolls hold court at the base of the tree, and others decorate the red "schoolhouses" represented at the left and right in the 'tree picture. A close-up of one of the schoolhouses is illustrated in the righthand picture. Such bright eyes the dolls have, such plentiful hair, such elegant clothes. One hundred twenty "Raggedy Ann"' dolls were made for the bazaar, as well as sixty sets of "Ann and Andy." Twice as many dolls could have been sold. Luella W. Finlinson is president of South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society and Myrna J. Giles is president of the Eighth Ward Relief Society. Counselors in the ward are Dorothy B. Neiswender and Lucille B. Cannon, with Jeanne H. Rydalch as work director. 437 antique VOUT plastic flowers Dorothy J. Roberts Transparencies by the author Decorative Designs from the home of Alberta H. Christensen @ "Voices of silence' — have you not admired them, too in the baroque plastic flower arrangements of the day, muted in tone, gilded and antiqued? Shades of the seventeenth century Flemish masters, and their famous pictures of floral art, are simulated in the oldworld feeling of these modern bouquets. For many of us who did not know of the special process for thus transforming the commonest, even soiled, plastic flowers and foliage, (cloth flowers cannot be used in this process), it is a joy to learn just how simple it can be. With little effort and small expense, plus the joy of creating beauty, these rich-looking home accessories can be possible for all of us by merely dipping each flower in the following manner. In a wide-mouthed can or jar or bottle, combine: 1 cup paint thinner or turpentine 1 cup clear varnish 1 tablespoon dark oak stain 1 tablespoon powdered gold (Venus, medium) Into this solution dip each flower, after bending back an inch or so on the stem end to form a small hook. Stir the mixture between each flower-dipping. Hang each flower upside-down on a line to dripdry till morning. Place papers under the line to catch the drippings. By the next day, colors will be muted by the stain and varnish, and leaves and petals veined and tipped with gold. 438 ANTIQUE YOUR PLASTIC FLOWERS Arrange them by straightening out the stems, cutting them when desired, and pressing them down into styrofoam frogs and placing them in appropriate containers. The process can be varied by substituting oil pigment of any desired shade for the dark oak stain, or by using light oak stain on very light flowers. Monotone effects can be obtained by first spraying the flowers lightly with some shade of paint, before antiquing. In the accompanying illustrations, the yellow arrangement began with two dozen yellow plastic roses, not compatible with the decor. By adding a few other kinds of flowers and then dipping them all in the solution with the dark oak stain and arranging them in an old brass jardiniere, they fit in beautifully with the gray-green walls and gold mirror. The pink roses, in the pewter-colored urn, were added to an uninteresting bouquet of small flowers which had been lightly sprayed with gray paint. When all were dipped and then placed in the colorrelated gray-toned container, they were a delight. The small flowers were first painted with colored oils and a brush, but only became beautiful in the antiquing process. Other colors of powdered gold were used on them, as green-gold and red-gold and pale-gold, though the Venus medium gold seems most satisfactory. These looked well in a crystal bow] set on an antique gilded pedestal. Be sure to remove from the house and place in covered garbage cans all cloths and paper used in the process, and do not leave leftover solution uncovered. FLOWERING PATHWAY. BALBOA PARK. SAN DIEGO. CALIFORNIA TRANSPARENCY BY JC 440 GARDEN KALEIDOSCOPE Eva Willes Wangsgaard i) A kaleidoscope landscape in blooms depicted: __ Last month tulip rainbows and blossoming trees. Today these tenants have been evicted For iris glory and peonies. Already the clematis paints the fences In crimson and purple and lavender While spicy fragrance informs the senses Where pink petunias, and pansies are. " Laco HESS. NEAR BARILOCHE. ARGENTINA /. Enticement for wings of gauze or of feather, Butterfly silent or dragonfly brief, Cloak for a song as warm as June weather, New life in a nest as small as a leaf. As varied as sunsets, as luscious with color, So great a gift for so little care! What could be lovelier? What could be fuller Of all that is beautiful, real, and rare. TRANSPARENCY BY FREE LANCE PHOTOGRAPHERS GUILD. 441 JUNE 1966 "HOLIDAY IN RHYME BAZAAR" Monrovia Ward, Pasadena Stake (California) Each booth was cleverly decorated around a particular nursery rhyme, and the sisters who sold the various items were dressed in complementary costumes. The Children's Clothing Department is represented in the picture. Cindy Ball stands at the left (wearing a plaid dress); Marian Pagnella at the right (in green dress). Sister Pagnella made more than fifty articles of clothing for the bazaar. The dolls in the picture are cut from plywood, but they are wearing "real" clothing. Jasmine P. Ballard is president of Pasadena Stake Relief Society; Norma Williamson is president of Monrovia Ward Relief Society, and her counselors are Bonnie Kinch and Nicola Miller. KITCHEN CRAFTS ON DISPLAY Sixth Ward, East Millcreek Stake (Utah) display at work meeting exhibit, Relief Society Annual General Conference 1965 The pasteboard figures at the right are wearing patio (cook) aprons— decorated with fruits, vegetables, and utensils. The gold-colored tablecloth (labeled '"'Pot Luck'') which they are holding, is made to match the aprons. The jars displayed in the center of the "Pantry" shelves are candy jars. The pickles, jams, and jellies were made by Relief Society members. The cross-stitch embroidered aprons, plain and fancy, are made of checked materials in delicate pastel colors. Even the tea towels (at the right of the pantry) are gaily trimmed with appliqued flowers and figures. Quata Howells is president of East Millcreek Stake Relief Society. Margene Oborn is the Sixth Ward president; Gayle Kirkham, Work Counselor in the ward, prepared the display for conference. 442 COLORFUL CLOWN ATTENDS "FAMILY NIGHT FUN" BAZAAR Highland Ward, East Ogden Stake (Utah) Red and white aprons are displayed on the branches of Christmas trees (at the right). The baby crib in the background (left) displays baby quilts, pillows, and toys. The red table (front, left) is loaded with popcorn balls. The patch pockets on the clown's suit contained fish pond items and proved to be a delightful innovation to please the children. Lillian Christiansen is president of East Ogden Stake Relief Society; Arlene Flanders is president of Highland Ward Relief Society; her counselors are Maude Wahlquist and Alyce Smith; Athlene Johnson is work meeting leader, and LaVern Buckner served as apron chairman for the bazaar. TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL a german holiday buffet Carla Sansom @I am going to invite my friends over for a real "gemiitlichen" evening. This is the German way of en. Joying your friends. We will be about twenty to twenty-five people. I have already planned my menu so that I can stock up on what I need to prepare for the event. The menu that I have decided upon will include: Dilly bread, quick sour dough bread, rye bread, stollen and orange raisin bread, string bean salad, red beetherring salad, pineapple-cheese salad with lime jello, fresh cranberry relish, orange cream salad, cucumber salad, shrimp salad, German marble kuchen, cheese cake, butterkuchen, and roast leg of pork. First, I look at my bread list. In Germany, we love a variety of breads. The dilly, the quick sour dough, and the rye, I will bake beforehand and put in the freezer. I have found out that the flavor of bread is far more delicious when it has been frozen. Besides, it is good planning. I won't have to do the baking all at once. (Continued on page 450) Alice P. Willardson @ Do you love to see shining eyes and dancing feet? Then make your little daughter or granddaughter a dress like the one in the picture, with a doll to match. I have made one for Lynnette. Choose your own dress pattern, perhaps one that you already have on hand. Some patterns available in stores include a pattern for the doll, also. Of course, you can buy a doll and dress it. But I am going to make mine. They are so soft and cuddly and completely washable. Draw your pattern for the doll large enough to allow for seams and the third dimension. Cut it out of unbleached white goods. Draw the face and embroider the features so colors will not run or fade. How about blue eyes with black lashes and brows, red lips, and maybe even a dimple? Cut the back to match the front and lay the pieces together, wrong side out. Seam all around except for room to turn the material inside out, and clip the seams diagonally so they won't pull. Stuff the doll with shredded foam and sew up the opening with a blind stitch. Make some hair of fine yarn. (Aren't we lucky that straight hair is now in style.) Measure the strands to the desired length, lay them on a paper and sew down the middle to make the part. Then sew the part to the doll's head. Now you have a baby doll as soft as a pillow. You can make her clothes from scraps of the little girl's dress, so they will match. Mother can wash the doll along with the dress. Just be sure to drip dry the doll. 445 "The Gleaners" by Jean Francois Millet (1814-1875) Louvre Museum, Paris, France Floyd Breinholt Assistant Professor of Art and Education Brigham Young University @ Jean Francois Millet was born at Gruchy, near Greville, France, of a peasant family and loved the earth in its calmest moods. He spent his youth working on the land. He is sometimes counted as a member of the Barbizon (a village in the forest of Fontainebleau, near Paris) group, who were pure landscape painters and discovered the intrinsic loveliness of nature. This painting certainly does not seem revolutionary to us today, but when it was painted, the artists in the academies felt that all dignified paintings should represent dignified personages, usually prominent in government, business, or holy writ. Generally, common working people were placed in paintings only when they were necessary to illustrate subject matter, not as subjects themselves. Jean Francois Millet was somewhat of a revolutionary in this regard. His paintings, of which "The Gleaners" is one of the best examples, seem to dignify work and the worker. There is nothing here of great and glorious acts or of important characters or deeds, only the simple, honest, down-to-earth feeling of security in the closeness to mother earth. The peasants are not graceful or beautiful, but are solid, deliberate, and placed below the skyline. They seem as if they are part of the earth. The arrangement and carefully planned rhythm and the way they are distributed give a feeling of poise and of solemn dignity. The artist makes the worker and the task of harvesting assume an heroic, wholesome significance. For Latter-day Saint women, "The Gleaners'"' imparts a particular interest, for the pioneer women also were "gleaners in the field." In a single year, from November 1876 to November 1877, the Relief Society sisters, at the request of President Brigham Young, had gleaned against a time of need, more than ten thousand bushels of wheat, and, over the years, the golden grain has become a symbol of thrift and security. Wheat designs form a decorative motif on the Relief Society Building in Salt Lake City. 447 The Three Wise Men Kay Sullivan, Monument Park Stake (Displayed at the work meeting exhibit, Relief Society Annual General Conference 1965) @ Use a paper cone made from poster paper for the body, a piece of wire, (a coat hanger may be used) bent into shape for making shoulders, arms, hands, etc. Attach a separate piece of wire onto the first wire (the curve of the coat hanger may be cut off and inserted into styrofoam egg to make the head.) Be sure the head is in proportion to the body. Take pieces of old sheeting and dip in liquid starch. Drape around the form while the sheeting is still very wet. Take lace, braided cording, dacron batting for the hair, or other decorative trim and dip into the liquid starch, and place on the draped form. It adheres very nicely when completely dry. Any gifts to be placed in the hands should also be attached at this time. After the sheeted figure is completely dry, spray with gold spray (read the label on the can to be sure that the spray can be used with styrofoam). Then decorate with any discarded jewels. 448 Elsie Meeks Simkins, Circleville, Utah, finds artistic fulfillment and much happiness in her many hobbies — quilting, making pillows of intricate design, and crocheting lace which she describes as ''webby fine.'' She has given away numerous lovely articles to friends and relatives, and still has gifts on hand "for the days to come.'' While residing in St. George one winter, she made twentysix aprons in her spare time, after attending two temple sessions daily. She cannot remember the number of quilts she has made for relatives and friends and for Relief Society bazaars. Mrs. Simkins has been active in Relief Society, having served as a visiting teacher for more than fifty-four years. She was a counselor in the first Relief Society organization in Widtsoe, Utah. Now, at the age of eighty-six, she attends Sunday School, sacrament meeting, and Relief Society. She keeps house for herself, does her own washing and ironing, takes care of her yard, and enjoys a daily walk to the Post Office. Her pioneer heritage served her well when she was called, during World War I, to direct a group of women in gathering and storing wheat. Presently, she is writing her life history to add to the records of her Grandfather Priddy Meeks, one of the best-known and most successful pioneer doctors. She is mother to six children, grandmother to twenty-four, great grandmother to thirty-nine, and great-great-grandmother to two. JUNE 1966 German Holiday Buffet (Continued from page 444) Here are the bread recipes: DILLY BREAD Yield: one 1-pound loaf Oven temp. 350°F Container: 114 to 2 qt. Casserole Baking time: 40-50 minutes 1 cake yeast 2 tbsp. Sugar 14 c. Water 1 tbsp. Minced dried onion 1 c. Small-curd creamed cottage cheese 1 tbsp. Melted butter or oil 1/4, tsp. Dill willow 2 tsp. Dill seed 1 tsp. Salt.. 214-214 c. Flour 14 tsp. Soda 1 tbsp. Soft butter 1 unbeaten egg onion salt Procedure: 1. Soften yeast in 14 c. Water. 2. Heat cottage cheese until warm. 3. Place all ingredients in large mixing bowl, mixing the flour in. 4. Knead until well mixed. Let rise 1 hour. 5. Knead down and place in well-greased casserole. Let rise until double— about 74 hour. 6. Bake as directed. 7. Brush with soft butter and sprinkle lightly with onion salt. ALL-PURPOSE MIX (To be used in making the orange-raisin bread) 9 c. Flour (sifted) 1 tbsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Baking powder 14 c. Sugar (double action) 2 c. Shortening Add the baking powder, salt, and sugar into flour. Sift together three times into a large mixing bowl or into a large piece of plain paper. Cut in shortening with a pastry blender or two knives until the mix is the consistency of cornmeal. Store in tightly covered containers at room temperature. To measure the mix, pile it lightly into standard measuring cup and level off with a spatula. ORANGE-RAISIN BREAD Makes 1 loaf Oven temp. 350°F Baking time: 1 hour lf, c. Orange juice 1 tsp. Vanilla rind of orange 2 c. All-purpose mix 1 c. Raisins 14 c. Sugar 1 egg, well-beaten 14 tsp. Soda '7 c. Milk 1 eight-ounce pkg. Cream cheese Squeeze juice from orange and measure 14 cup. Remove most of the white membrane from orange peel. Grind peel in a food chopper, with raisins, using coarse blade. Add orange juice to the raisin and orange rind mixture and stir together. Add beaten egg, milk, and vanilla to the combined orange juice, raisin, and orange rind mixture, and stir until blended. Add the liquid mixture to the dry ingredients and mix well. Bake in a greased loaf pan, 9x5x3'', in a moderate oven (350°F). When cool, slice bread thin and spread with cream cheese. Slices can be placed together in sandwich style or left open faced. 450 JUNE 1966 QUICK SOUR DOUGH BREAD (made without a start) Makes 3 average-sized loaves Oven temp. 375°F Baking time: 30 minutes Combine in saucepan: 1 qt. Tart buttermilk 2 tbsp. Salt 6 tbsp. Shortening Bring to the steam heat only, then cool. In a 2-c. Measuring cup, combine: 2 pkqs. Dry yeast 5 tbsp. Sugar 14 c. Warm water 'By the time buttermilk is thoroughly cooled, the yeast mixtures will have grown enough to add to milk mixture. After mixing together, gradually add 10 c. Flour to give a workable dough. Put dough on a floured board. Knead 10 minutes. Let rise in original dough pan (saucepan) for 45 minutes. At the end of this time, punch dough down. Divide into 3 equal loaves and fit into 3 greased bread pans. Let rise again for 45 minutes. Bake as directed. Turn out immediately and cool on rack. (Brush with soft butter.) Sour dough bread is soft and pliable. You might enjoy pulling the loaves apart for eating, instead of slicing. (To be continued in the July Magazine) Our Special Garden Helen M. Peterson "Marriage is not a bed of roses!" I often heard my aunt say. "It is a garden filled with weeds and thorns!" I was only a child and could not comprehend the meaning of her words, but, somehow, they lived in my memory. When I grew up and was about to be married, those words mirrored before me again, and again. I found myself observing many married couples, and occasionally I'd get an inkling of what my aunt meant. But, it was not until after I was married that the true meaning of her words rang clear and meaningful. The first time my loved one and I had a misunderstanding, I thought the world would come to an end. When we showed signs of being inconsiderate of each other; when jealousy and selfishness appeared; when we spoke unkind words to each other—then I could see the weeds and thorns choking out the beauty in our "garden of love." It was then that I decided that we must make our garden a special garden, and we would have to give it special care. For twenty-five years now, my husband and I have worked hard trying to be good gardeners. We keep chopping the weeds away, and we take great care not to let the thorns grow long and sharp so that when they penetrate the flesh they become imbedded. I cannot say we have always kept our garden weed free, but by putting forth great effort and working continuously to beautify our garden, we manage to keep the flowers growing and we are able to enjoy many, many beautiful blossoms. 452 (esrens 1, FROM THE FIELD NM Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Idaho Stake, Bancroft Ward Spring Style Show March 17, 1966 Second row, at the right: Marie Gamble, narrator; second from the right: Virginia Butterfield, President, Bancroft Ward Relief Society; fourth from the left: Elnora Maughan, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, at the left: Lois Rindlisbaker, who directed the fashion show, in cooperation with Karen Modersitski, who stands at the right in the back row; Second Counselor Hortense Yost, fourth from the left in the back row. Arlene Torgensen, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society, reports: "The spring style show was a combination of three workshops which were completed in the Bancroft Ward in 1966. The style show was presented at the anniversary party. The sewing classes were given in January, February, and March, with fifty articles being made, and twenty women participating. The fathers of the children in the front row were very pleased and appreciative of the accomplishments of their wives." 453 Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Anniversary Party — ''A Day of Honors" March 17, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Faye Larson, Counselor, Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Ruth Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Marie Heywood, Counselor; Helen Means, Secretary-Treasurer; Myreel Lewis, literature class leader, Ajo Ward; Ora Bybee, visiting teacher message leader, Phoenix Stake Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Blanche Burr, literature class leader, Sixth Ward, also first place winner in Phoenix Stake short story contest; Ethel Lillywhite, second place winner in short story contest; Evelyn Smith, visiting teacher message leader in Ajo Ward, also a participant in the short story contest; Ruth Jackson, Counselor, Ajo Ward; Emily Barnes, social science class leader in Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Olene Trembath, President, Ajo Ward Relief Society; Francelle Decker, stake Magazine representative; Sybil Udall, stake literature class leader; Thelma Allen, chorister, Ajo Ward; Rowena Root, stake chorister; Leora Jay, Counselor, Ajo Ward. Sister Means reports: "Members of the stake board wore pioneer costumes, and the Ajo Ward Relief Society officers and teachers, from 125 miles away, also came in appropriate costumes, thus being honored to be in the picture. As last year's birthday party was a climax to the stake poetry contest, so this year was dedicated to the winners in the short story contest. Their names were announced, and each sister was presented with a book of short stories. All participants were honored and presented with appropriate certificates. "Appreciation for the opportunity and benefits derived from participation in the contest were expressed by the sisters. "A very clever program titled 'It All Began With Eve,' was written and presented by Sybil Udall. The highlight of the program was a surprise 'Honor Day' for President Ruth Stapley. Her family also surprised her by attending and honoring her. A history of her life was read by Ina Price, which related a life of love and dedication to the Church, and her wonderful talent for leadership, this being the eighteenth year of her Relief Society service, five as ward president and thirteen as stake president. "A lovely orchid corsage was presented each member of the stake presidency by the ward presidencies. A delightful luncheon followed the program, served by members of the stake board." 4S4 Juarez Stake (Mexico) Honors First Four Relief Society Presidents at Anniversary Party March 17, 1966 Seated, left to right: Nelle S. Romney, President, Juarez Ward Relief Society; Maria Maza, Dublan Second Ward social science class leader; Nelle S. Hatch, a former president of Juarez Stake Relief Society; Eva Skousen, who read the tribute to Fannie C. Harper. Standing, left to right: Nilus S. Memmott, who read the tribute to her mother Mary Olive B. Stowell; Elena Ontiveros, Damiana Burgos, and Tomasa Areola, who read the tributes in Spanish. Rhoda C. Taylor, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, reports: "On the 17th of March, the Juarez Stake Relief Society celebrated the anniversary of Relief Society by honoring the first four presidents of the Juarez Stake Relief Society, which was organized in 1895, having the fourth president Nelle S. Hatch, who had served twenty-one years (1929-1950) as honored guest. The theme was 'Building a Firm Foundation.' "In our stake we have both Spanish-speaking and English-speaking wards. The program was given in English by English-speaking sisters, and in Spanish by Spanish-speaking sisters, the programs alternating with demonstrations of work meeting activities, after which all met together for refreshments. The four presidents being honored were: Mary B. Eyring, Mary Olive B. Stowell, Fannie C. Harper, and Nelle S. Hatch. A skit depicting an incident on a visit of Sister Hatch to the mountain colonies was given, being written and directed by Florienne F. Taylor, the literature class leader of Juarez Ward Relief Society, after which Sister Hatch gave her own testimony. A group of Singing Mothers from Dublan Ward rendered two beautiful numbers during the program. The skit was written in Spanish and directed by Maria Maza, and the Juarez Second Ward furnished beautiful music for this program. "Marza Hatch, a daughter-in-law of Nelle Hatch, was largely responsible for gathering the material used in the program, which she and the stake secretarytreasurer planned and organized. The work meeting activities were under the direction of Reta B. Clark, stake Work Director Counselor, and consisted of flower making from bolillos (Mexican rolls), as well as from paper. Rinda A. Robinson, stake Education Counselor, and June H. Hollie, stake literature leader, were responsible for the dainty refreshments. Decorations were made by Rhoda C. Taylor, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, and Willa T. Wagner, social science class leader." 455 JUNE 1966 Millard Stake (Utah), Holden Ward Achieves A One Hundred Per Cent Visiting Teaching Record for Eighteen Years Blanche George, President, Millard Stake Relief Society, reports: "January 1966 marks the eighteenth year of one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the Holden Ward. This record started in 1948, under Relief Society President Louise Stevens, and continued under the leadership of Hazel Harmon, Hattie Stephenson, Ramona Kenney, Beth Crosland, Marjorie Stevens, and Virginia Wood. "There are fourteen districts in Holden Ward, with twenty-eight visiting teachers and five alternates." The picture was taken March 1, 1966. Guatemala-E! Salvador Mission Relief Society ''Cosas de la Casa'"' Exhibition and Demonstration December 1965 Left to right: Berta B. Lépez; Betty Layton; Carmen G. O'Donnal, Assistant to the Supervisor, Guatemala-E] Salvador Mission Relief Society; Marina D. Oliva, President, Mission Relief Society; Glenna M. Hansen, Supervisor, Guatemala-El Salvador Mission Relief Society; Hortensia Torres, President, Guatemala District Relief Society; Edith de Mata. Teresa de Alfaro and Lidia de Gdmez, members of the board, were not present when the picture was taken. Sister Hansen reports: ''Culminating the effort and preparation of several months, were the demonstration and exhibition programs — 'Cosas de la Casa' — given by the sisters of the Relief Society Mission Board throughout the districts of the Guatemala-E] Salvador Mission. Many new, creative, and useful articles for the home were made for the exhibition and displayed on large tables in a U-shape in the various cultural halls. How to make each item was demonstrated during the afternoon to all those present. Booklets were prepared, containing patterns, illustrations, and directions for making the articles which were demonstrated. Each branch received a booklet for future use on work days, and many sisters bought additional copies for their own personal use. The hostess district at each program decorated the salons with large bouquets of colorful tropical flowers, and served refreshments to all who attended. The members of the Relief Society throughout the mission were very enthusiastic and interested in the many useful articles presented. Later, it was most gratifying to the Mission Board members to see many of these items well made by the branches, and offered for sale at their local and district bazaars." South Sevier Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Presents Dramatization "You Are There' at Leadership Meeting March 6, 1966 Seated in front, left to right: Vida B. Hooper, First Counselor; LaVern H. Daniels, President; Susie B. Jensen, Second Counselor; Ruth C. Madsen, Secretary-Treasurer. Second row, standing, left to right, board members: Reva F. Bell; Beth W. Nordgren; Wietta J. Mills; Melba O. Beck; Ercel A. Olsen; Carol S. Lemon; Grace J. Owens; Betty G. Hansen. Sister Daniels reports: '""The members of the South Sevier Stake Relief Society Board dramatized the organization of Relief Society in. A play entitled "You Are There,' at their leadership meeting March 6, 1966. There are seven wards in the stake, each one functioning successfully. Following the stake presentation, a number of the wards presented the play for their membership. The stake board is also sponsoring a poetry contest to which the sisters are responding with enthusiasm." 456 JUNE 1966 Midvale Stake (Utah), Midvale Third Ward Relief Society Presents Quilt to Former Stake President and Wife Myrtle Troester, who made the quilt, stands at the left in the picture; former stake president Reed H. Beckstead stands at the right with his wife Melissa. Blanche Sager, President, Midvale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Many long hours of devoted work were donated by Myrtle Troester, Midvale Third Ward work meeting leader in completing this lovely quilt. It was Sister Troester's desire that each stitch be perfect. The design is a combination of applique work and embroidery. The quilt was presented by Midvale Third Ward Relief Society to former stake president Reed H. Beckstead and Sister Melissa Beckstead. It was given to show love and appreciation for sixteen and a half years of faithful and devoted service in Midvale Stake. The officers of Midvale Third Ward Relief Society are: President Beverly Brown; First Counselor Zina Olson; Second Counselor Ramona Peterson." San Juan Stake (Utah), Monticello Ward Holds Successful Bazaar November 12, 1965 Ruth J. Nielson, President, San Juan Stake Relief Society, reports: '""Much ingenuity and imagination, as well as hard work, went into the preparation and planning of the Monticello Ward Relief Society bazaar. The theme was 'Dish Towel City,' and as the sisters entered the room, they were greeted by the sight of a series of colorful and decorative displays, such as 'Apron Villa,' 'Pillowcase Junction,' and 'Jack and Jill Land.' Also, there was a candy and bake shop, carrying many attractively arranged 'goodies.' The children were nut forgotten, either, for in one corner a colorful fishpond attracted the children., "'A delicious home-cooked dinner of roast beef was served to approximately 230. Table decorations were appropriate for the season, with strutting turkeys, and Pilgrims adorning the tables." Bevery Thacker is president of Monticello Ward Relief Society. Mt. Olympus Stake (Utah), East Millcreek Eighth Ward "Our Heritage' Anniversary Party March 15, 1966 Left to right: Ruby Richards, as President Belle S. Spafford; Rula Hill, as Amy Brown Lyman; Rosa Fankauser, as Louise Y. Robison; Helen Richards, as Clarissa S. Williams; Belva Ashton, as Emma Smith; Bernis Mihlberger, as Eliza R. Snow; Thelma Fetzer, as Emmeline B. Wells; Zola Andrus, as Bathsheba W. Smith; Marilyn Taylor, as Zina D. Young. Jelaire Simpson, President, Mt. Olympus Stake Relief Society, reports: "Under the direction of Thelda Papenfuss, President, Eighth Ward Relief | Society, and her Counselors Hilda Allredge and Earlena Kimball, a lovely birthday party was enjoyed on March 15, 1966. A large book entitled 'Our Heritage' was opened to reveal each former General President of Relief Society. The original script was written by Ruth Glick and Eleanor Jones. Appropriate musical numbers were used to highlight the program. 'Mrs. America' (Alice Buehner), a former counselor of this ward, was also honored. The luncheon tables were decorated to suggest each month of the year. Each sister found her own birthday table. The true spirit of Relief Society prevailed, and each sister felt thankful for the guidance our organization has received throughout the years." 458 / a \ Lesson Department Ooo NEW TITLES FOR LESSON COURSES ~~ os ee In harmony with the Correlation Program, the lessons for the coming year are being written so they may be presented in such a way that every sister at Relief Society will become involved in the discussion. The titles of the courses, beginning in October 1966, reflect this new concept of involvement. Theology is now called 'Spiritual Living'; Work Meeting — 'Homemaking'; Social Science 'Social Relations," and Literature has taken on a new depth and becomes "Cultural Refinement." SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Elder Roy W. Doxey @ We learn from the revelations to be studied this year that, during the summer of 1833 and into the winter of 1834, persecution against the saints began in Jackson County, Missouri, and culminated in their expulsion into other counties of that State. Despite the hatred shown to the members of the Church, they were counseled to use proper legal means to bring about the restitution of their lands. The saints were again counseled through the teachings of the Savior that one should forgive his enemies. Before persecution began in July 1833, the Lord gave some revelations containing many great truths of the gospel. The first 460 revelation for study this year is Section 93 which was received in May 1833. This revelation contains the important truth that in order to worship in truth it is necessary to know what one should worship. John the Revelator's testimony of Christ, recorded in Section 93, provides sufficient information about the Savior to convince men of his divinity. The summary of John's testimony. In this first lesson helps one to realize that our EIder Brother is, in reality, the Son of God. In this same revelation information is given whereby the Latter-day Saint woman may know her true relationship to the Savior and her Eternal Father. The knowledge that man existed preearthly gives the answer to many questions which arise about the purpose of this earth-experience, and the environment in which man lives. The tremendous advantage to a woman of the Church in knowing that she lived before her earthly birth and that she brings to this life characteristics from that world, together with an understanding of her innocence as she began the earthlife, furnishes information which can serve as a guideline throughout her existence. A lesson considers the many facets of this subject that have buoyed up members of the Church during persecution, afflictions, and other vicissitudes of life. From Section 93, the Latterday Saint woman is also enlightened on the great importance of knowing how light and truth may become a part of her life. An important part of this knowledge are the criteria by which she may differentiate between truth and error. Members of the Church know that the Constitution of the United States is a divinely inspired document which set up a government under which the gospel could be restored. A lesson this year is concerned with its LESSON DEPARTMENT origin and its major provisions that give men an opportunity to exercise their free agency. After a woman has accepted the gospel or when, after baptism as a young person, she realizes the true importance of the gospel, she begins to consider how she can best achieve the goals set forth in the plan of salvation. Some of the principles by which one may become a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ are enumerated in a lesson this year. A subject which intrigues the Latter-day Saint is the millennial reign of the Lord. Certainly the imminence of the Lord's coming which ushers in the millennium and the peaceful, happy conditions that will prevail during that time, are the earnest desires of every Latter-day Saint woman. Hope, encouragement, and enlightenment fill the breast of the Latter-day Saint woman who looks with faith to that millennial day. The saints had been driven from the center place of Zion, but despite this treatment, they were given the assurance, known to us today, that God's work will triumph. One of the great prophecies made by Joseph Smith, but little known, is discussed in the concluding lesson of the year. The 1966-67 series of Spiritual Living lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 73—John's Testimony of Jesus (D&C 93:1-20) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the necessity for a knowledge of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer.: Lesson 74—Pre-Earth Life (D&C 93:21-23, 27-29, 33-34) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman receives added strength for daily living from enlightenment on the purpose of earth life. 461 JUNE 1966 Lesson 75—Light and Truth (D&C 93:24-26, 30-53) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman molds her life in accordance with revealed truth. Lesson 76—How to Act Amid Persecution (D&C 97; 98:23-48) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman withstands persecution in a spirit of understanding and forgiveness. Lesson 77—A Divine Document Prepares the Way for the Restoration of the Gospel (D&C 98:1-22; 101: 76-80) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the Lord's purposes in establishing the Constitution of the United States. Lesson 78—Discipleship (D&C, Section 100) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is comforted to know that al! Things work together for good for those who are righteous, and thereby she becomes a true disciple of the Lord. Lesson 79—The Millennium (D&C 101: 23-42) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman makes individual preparation for participation during the millennial reign. Lesson 80— The Eventual Triumph of God's Work (D&C 101: 43-75; 103) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks through obedience and diligence to share in the eventual triumph of God's work. VISITING TEACHING MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Messages for 1966-67 Alice Colton Smith @ In 1833, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was three years old and was growing rapidly. Although it was already harrassed by persecutions, hope and faith were strong because the Lord spoke often to the saints through his Prophet Joseph Smith. By constant guidance, admonitions, and many expressions of love and support, he directed the restored Church. In less than a year, Sections 93 through 103 were revealed. From these, we 462 draw our visiting teacher messages for 1966-67. Through these sections the Lord opened up a vista of eternity that fills one with awe, courage, hope, and great joy. One is astonished by the truths revealed and the promises made. God's plan, as it was unfolded to man, was beyond any previous expectation. Man was to assist in the work of the Lord. Together they would bring to pass an amazing future. Man was to be courageous, believing, and to rear his children in light and truth. He was to work, worship, pray, study, and follow the Lord. God would, then, pour out his Spirit upon all flesh. Through this powerful combination of truly dedicated Latter-day Saints and the outpouring of the Spirit, all the world would be blessed. One hundred and thirty-three years later, man reviews the results with reverential awe and gratitude. The gospel is being spread throughout the world by technical means that would have seemed miraculous in 1833. There are almost unbelievable developments in every area of man's life. LESSON DEPARTMENT Scholars remind us that man has made more technological progress in the last fifty years than in all previously recorded history. The Lord truly has poured out his Spirit upon all flesh. As we study the unfolding and fulfillment of these great prophetic beginnings, we should be comforted, joyful, and thankful. As we understand and apply the messages the visiting teachers will present this year, we should grow more studious, forgiving, repentant, grateful, hopeful, courageous, cooperative, and loving. We should rear our children well and be an example to our households and to the world. The following are the 1966-67 Visiting Teacher Messages and their objectives: Message 73—'"'But | Have Commanded You to Bring up Your Children in Light and Truth' (D&C 93:40). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To provide an atmosphere in the home for spiritual learning experiences. Message 74—''Fear Not, Let Your Hearts Be Comforted; Yea, Rejoice Evermore, and in Everything Give Thanks" (D&C 98:1). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To be joyful and cultivate gratitude and courage. Message 75—'"'Obtain a Knowledge of History, and of Countries, and of Kingdoms, of Laws of God and Man, and All This for the Salvation of Zion'' (D&C 93:53). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To help us realize the importance of continued study by ourselves and our children. Message 76—''Ask and Ye Shall Receive' (D&C 103:35). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To show that all man receives requires his effort as well as God's help. Message 77—''Let Your Hearts Be Comforted; for All Things Shall Work Together for Good to Them That Walk Uprightly" (D&C 100:15). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: To understand that all life experiences will work for good to the righteous. 463 JUNE 1966 Message 78—''For If You Keep My Commandments You Shall Receive of His Fulness, and Be Glorified in Me As | Am in the Father' (D&C 93:20). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To realize that through obedience the promises of God to man are limitless. Message 79—''As Oft As Thine Enemy Repenteth of the Trespass.... Thou Shalt Forgive Him, Until Seventy Times Seven' (D&C 98:40). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To teach that we should never withhold forgiveness. Message 80—"'All Victory and Glory Is Brought to Pass Unto You Through Your Diligence, Faithfulness, and Prayers of Faith'' (D&C 103:36). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To learn that achievement requires personal effort and faith. HOMEMAKING. Development Through Homemaking Education Preview of Homemaking Discussions for 1966-67 Celestia J. Taylor The discussions for 1966-67 are a continuation of the course ''Development Through Homemaking Education.'' The purpose of this course is to inspire, to uplift, and to assist the sisters in acquiring homemaking skills. It is expected that many of the techniques in the field of homemaking will be explained and demonstrated in order to help the Latter-day Saint woman make her home beautiful and to increase hcr desire to excel in the art of homemaking. The discussions for October, November, and December 1966, were written by Hazel S. Cannon. Beginning in January 1967, the discussions will be written by Celestia J. Taylor, a member of the General Board of Relief Society. M What a world of difference exists between a home where there is order and one where there is a disregard for it! This difference lies not alone in the appearance which an_ orderly house presents, but it lies, also, in the spirit which it engenders in those who live in the home and in those who merely observe it. A house in which are observed the simple rules of order and cleanliness gives to its occupants a feeling of well-being and pride of possession, and to its observers a feeling of admiration and respect, while a slovenly, poorly kept house may be conducive to 464 a spirit of dejection and, even, of contention. The husband who comes from his work to a home where order prevails finds rejuvenation to his spirit and refreshment to his soul. One who returns to a house of disorder and confusion finds no respite nor solace from his labors. The same is true of the effects of these respective homes upon a child. A In an age of conflicting ideologies in every avenue of life— political, social, educational, and even religious—it is comforting to know that emphasis is being centered in the home as a Sta- bilizing force. Give the statesman his oratory, the crusader his cause, the soldier his weapon, and the world can still be in turmoil; but give a woman her dust mop and a good stiff broom and she can sweep the world clean of its troubles. | This is just another way of saying that the strongest defense of any nation is its homes. When there is 'order in the home, there is discipline in the individual; and when there is discipline in the individual, there is order, integrity, and solidarity in the nation. The scriptures tell us that we are to put our houses in order. As a commandment as well as a safeguard, the maintaining of our homes in order and peace is LESSON DEPARTMENT paramount in importance. It should be the vital concern of all of us who are engaged in this great and world-wide business of homemaking. Whether we live in the countries of Europe, on the islands of the sea, in the Americas, or anywhere else in this wonderful world of ours, Latterday Saint women are all working toward the same goal—orderly homes which are conducive to peace and happiness, now and eternally. The purpose of the Homemaking Discussions for January to October 1967 is to give us practical instruction in the skills and procedures which will help us to bring about and maintain order in our homes and, consequently, in our lives. The titles and objectives of the discussions by Hazel S. Cannon are as follows: Discussion 10—Put Sparkle in Your Meals Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To show how the homemaker can plan, prepare, and serve nutritious and appetizing family meals. Discussion 11—Extending Homey Hospitality Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To discuss the joy which can come to a homemaker and her family through extending hospitality, and to show the role of food in entertaining. Discussion 12—A Happy Home Is an Earlier Heaven Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To summarize how the homemaker and her family can benefit through homemaking education and to reemphasize the objectives of the past year. The titles and objectives of the discussions by Celestia J. Taylor are as follows: Discussion 13—Wise Spending Brings Happy Ending Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To show how a budget sets up guidelines which help solve financial problems. Discussion 14—Budgeting for Young Married Couples and for Retired Couples Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 465 JUNE 1966 Objective: To show that wise financial planning is helpful in all circumstances for all age groups. Discussion 15—Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To explain that credit wisely used can be a tool in assisting family income, but it can be a hazard to family happiness if over-extended. Discussion 16—Keeping Records Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To show the importance of keeping home management records. Discussion 17—Project Thrift Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To show that through careful planning and knowledgeable buying, a family can be clothed attractively with a limited budget. SUMMER MONTHS Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: June, July, August, September 1967 Southern Hemisphere: November, December, 1967, January, Objective: To teach sewing skills. February 1968 SOCIAL RELATIONS Teaching the Gospel in the Home Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Alberta H. Christensen @ The Relief Society course given at the third meeting of the month, will now be known as the Social Relations course. As the title implies, the lessons will continue to be concerned with human relationships that originate in the home and extend into areas of Church and community living. An important goal of these Relief Society lessons entitled "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" has been and continues to be the improvement of these relationships. Many of the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons have been directed toward bettering human relationships, and _ special emphasis, in some areas of the lessons, has been placed upon the husband-wife relationships. Sug- 466 gestions have been offered to help the father understand the desires, aspirations, and emotional needs of his wife and children. The Social Relations lessons will continue to correlate with the lessons currently being studied by the Melchizedek Priesthood. In general, they will present the position of the woman in relation to those subjects with which they correlate. The objective will continue to be, through discussion and application, a cooperation and understanding that will result in more abundant living by Latter-day Saint families. Love and understanding not only enrich the lives of all family members, but may inject an element of good will into all other human relationships. Understanding and good will toward others are much needed in today's world of stress, skepticism, and mistrust. Lesson 6 (Lesson 18 in the Series), is entitled 'That All May Learn." We have been specifically admonished to teach one another the ''doctrine of the kingdom." Since the impact of words and the power of example are vitally important in the learning process, it is obvious that teaching may be accomplished in a number of different ways. That Latter-day Saint women may become aware of the means by which they may fulfill their role in accomplishing this divine admonition, is the central theme of the lesson; that they may be motivated to utilize these means, is the lesson objective. It has been an objective in the correlating Relief Society lessons and, specifically emphasized in lesson seven "'The Sensitive Line," to remind a woman that she shares equal responsibility in making a satisfying and rewarding relationship with her husband, and in being sensitive to other human relationships. A woman's inherent sensitivity may lead her to a more gracious acceptance of a gift, whether it be a tangible article, or the less tangible but far more important gift of love and understanding. Relevant to the subject is the scripture "For what doth it profit aman if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift?" (D&C 88:33). "From Virtue to Virtue" is the title of lesson eight, the final lesson for the year 1966. This lesson LESSON DEPARTMENT points out that we attain perfection by progressing spiritually, from grace to grace. As our faith deepens, we become more perceptive to things of the spirit; as our spirituality is increased, our faith is strengthened, becoming more positive as a guiding influence in our lives. The Melchizedek Priesthood lessons for 1967, "On Earth and in Heaven," will be concerned with various aspects of law. As it relates to the Priesthood bearer's position in the home, the Church, and the community. The remaining five Relief Society lessons of the 1966-67 Social Relations course will correlate with aspects of this proposed course of study. Means to promote thought involvement and verbal participation on the part of class members will be used, such as scriptural quotations, a conversation, a wellphrased question, a socio-drama, or a provocative statement, case stories, etc. If the class leader is imaginative, and uses these realistic illustrations wisely, she can add variety and interest to the class period and, through participation, to the individual class member, who will become: a partner in resolving some problem situations common to most of us. A case study often may cut deep into the core of a problem, revealing various aspects of a situation which would not be observed in a mere telling of the incident. Class members may thus be led to see more easily and to evaluate more wisely, their own similar situations. Lesson 6 (Lesson 18 in Series)—That All May Learn Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 467 JUNE 1966 Objective: To motivate Latter-day Saint women to fulfill their role in teaching one another ''all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God."' Lesson 7 (Lesson 19 in Series)—The Sensitive Line Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To remind a woman that she shares equal responsibility in making a satisfying and rewarding relationship with her husband, and in being sensitive to other human relationships. Lesson 8 (Lesson 20 in Series)—From Virtue to Virtue Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To point out that we attain perfection by progressing spiritually, from virtue to virtue. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Textbook: Out of the Best Books Volume II: Home and the Family by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Preview of Lessons—1966-67 Elder Robert K. Thomas @ The experience of the last two years, during which literary lessons have been taken from material selected and published for the Relief Society, has proven so successful that a second book has been authorized. As the first volume focused on developing individual values, the second will center upon home and family. The principal objective of this course is the presentation of cultural and fine arts which will reflect and motivate the development of desirable attributes and characteristics to be emulated in the life of every Relief Society sister, that she may realize a cultural wholeness that will, in turn, be radiated in her home and benefit all members of her family. Although it is understood that the selection of cultural material will be in the area of Home and Family, the focus of this course of study during the next two years will be beamed toward the 468 growth and refinement of the individual woman. The critical approaches which were detailed in the first volume of Out of the Best Books will continue to be used, for their base is broadly cultural, and they are therefore appropriate to any artistic medium. Emphasis will still need to be given to literature, however, since not all lessons can be supported meaningfully by examples from the other fine arts. In response to repeated questions, the discussions which follow the selections in Volume II will go beyond providing necessary biographical information and brief critical analysis. As part of each section, if not always as part of every selection, there will be an attempt to suggest some vital issues which the material raises. Questions which may be used in class—or which may simply spark reader interest— will be part of the text. This is not to keep the anthology from speaking for itself. Class leaders and class members will surely be free to react individually, but directions can aid the inexperienced without coercing the expert. Each lesson will be centered around a desirable womanly attribute. Supporting material will attempt to illuminate each concept. In the first lesson, for instance, a series of selections will illustrate problems and possibilities in developing understanding. The special contribution of women to such development will be stressed, while, at the same time, keeping our concern family-wide. It is hoped that this approach may help Relief Society members appreciate the unique ability of culture to provide vicarious exLESSON DEPARTMENT perience and, thereby, give additional richness and depth to life. If all problems are finally theological, culture yet serves to sharpen our sensitivity, enlarge our sympathy, and refine our perception. In a very special and attractive sense it helps us to see the implications of our beliefs. When the Lord states, in Section 38 of the Doctrine and Covenants, that if we are not ''one"' we are not his, the context makes it clear that something more than unity of thought and purpose is intended. For the brief parable which precedes this statement stresses the necessity for completeness as well as harmony. Culture is a catalyst which aids us in achieving such wholeness. Lesson titles and objectives for the year 1966-67 are as follows: Lesson 1—A Candle of Understanding "Light a candle of understanding in thine heart.'' 2 Esdras Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: A woman of understanding tempers knowledge with compassion and sympathy with sensitivity. Lesson 2—Refinement Creates Beauty "Refinement creates beauty everywhere.'' William Hazlitt Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: A refined woman gives her home a sense of physical well-being and spiritual grace. Lesson 3—Humility Yields Strength "Humility like darkness reveals the heavenly lights.'' Henry David Thoreau Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: As she is teachable, a woman is able to help others become receptive to the inner strengths of meekness and gentility. Lesson 4—Time for Courtesy "There is always time for courtesy.'' Ralph Waldo Emerson Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: A woman should be respectful and considerate of other people at all times, but not to the point of compromising her own integrity or standards. Lesson 5—Diligence Ennobles Work "All things are won by diligence.'' Menander Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: In her own diligence a woman can help others appreciate the virtues which ennoble work. 469 JUNE 1966 Lesson 6—Virtue Nourishes the Soul "Virtue is the health of the soul.'' Joseph Joubert Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To show the beauty and truth of the statement ''Virtue is the health of the soul."' Lesson 7—Charity Out of a Pure Heart "The end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart.'' New Testament: Timothy 1:5 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: Charity, or the pure love of Christ, distinguishes those who give—and those who receive—graciously. ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight Cultural Refinement (literature) lessons are needed and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each English-speaking stake and mission use the eighth Cultural Refinement (literature) lesson period to review the objectives of the seven preceding lessons, pointing out the values which have come to the class members in their lives as women, in applying the objectives to their own lives. Seven assignments might be made in each ward or branch. Where the ward or branch class leader has not been able to present all the selections from the text Out of the Best Books, she may also bring an unused selection from the text into her lesson. SUMMER AND SLEEPING BAGS Mabel Jones Gabbott Tonight, with summer all about me, cool Crushed grass smell, relentless cricket song, And quiet talk of pebbled brook along The neighbor's field, | look up in the pool Of spaceless depths, where worlds upon worlds throng A universe, more than mind can tell; Immensity presses on my well Of green. Beside me undisturbed the long Sweet breathing of my son recalls a night Of summer stars above two poplar trees And my own childhood questionings that might Have paralleled his thoughts tonight. Were these The same stars that watched then? How very far From pebbled brooks and grass to where they are. Notes a2 B Alice Colton Smith, Logan, Utah, author of the Visiting Teacher Messages 'Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," beginning in October 1966, has been a member of the General Board of Relief Society since 1964 and has served on the spiritual living and foreign publications committees. She is a daughter of former Congressman from Utah Don B. Colton and Grace Stringham Colton, and the wife of J. Whitney Smith. A son Philip is attending Stanford University and daughter Carolyn C. Moody lives in Logan. Another daughter Annette C. Smith is deceased. Sister Smith has a Master's degree in sociology from Utah State University, where she is an assistant professor in that department. She has studied also at the University of Utah, Columbia University, and George Washington University. While her husband was on the staff of the American Embassy in Israel, Sister Smith was asked to be chairman of the Embassy Committee on IsraelAmerican relations. During 1958- 60, she was a member of the Utah 'State Textbook and Curriculum Commission. In Relief Society work, Sister Smith has served as literature and social science class leader, and as a branch president. She was president of the Austrian Mission Relief Society while her husband served as president in that mission. B® Celestia J. Taylor, author of the homemaking discussions ''Development Through Homemaking Education," beginning January 1967, has been a member of the General Board of Relief Society since 1962. She has served on the social science and literature committees and has often written scripts used in departmental meetings at a Relief Society annual conference. She has had poems published in The Relief Society Magazine, and her article, "Three Women," featured in the May 1966 issue, recounts the courage and devotion of Sister Taylor's grandparents in the settlement of Utah County, Utah. She was born in the lovely mountain village of Alpine. She received her Bachelor of Arts and Master's degrees in English at Brigham Young University, where she is now teaching in the English department. Sister Taylor has a lovely singing voice and has studied under Florence J. Madsen. She is the wife of Lynn D. Taylor, Provo merchant, and the mother of five children, all of whom are married except the youngest son who is serving a mission in England. Sister Taylor has served as stake literature class leader and as a -ward Relief Society president. Her -charming home high on the hills east of Provo is a haven of hospitality where family and friends enjoy a spirit of loving kindness and gracious welcome. 47\ HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon DOES YOUR HOME HAVE A PERSONALITY? Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1966 Southern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1967 Objective: To show that through wise planning and creativity, the homemaker can fashion a home of good taste which expresses INTRODUCTION Mary Jane's home is distinctively Mary Jane. It bears her signature with charm and good taste, and is different from any other home in the ward. An interesting observation is that individuality has been achieved through a small outlay of money and a large outlay of time and creative know-how. She antiqued her twentyyear-old dining room set, the lines good but the finish marred, in ivory. An attractive new gold-framed mirror hangs above the buffet. Antiquing found its way into her bedroom also, but is executed differently. A brass bed is enhanced by lovely old Queen Anne chests on either side, refinished in a color called Venetian blue. A night stand commode, also renewed to match the chests, joins a comfortable chair. Gracing the commode is an artistic bouquet of Mary Jane's Flemish flowers (plastic flowers made elegant by special treatment). An allpurpose room, converted from a porch, strikes a fresh, happy note. The chalk white walls and black marbleized linoleum are a perfect foil for wrought iron metal chairs upholstered in a bright pinky-orange print. Other projects are still in the making, but one never doubts that the Johnson home will have personality. 472 her personality and that of her family. REFLECT YOUR PERSONALITY Houses are for people, not people for houses. What are your hobbies, your tastes, your interests, your pattern of living, your likes and dislikes? A house and its furnishings should be a logical outgrowth of the needs of the family. While homemakers would like to take advantage of the products of modern science— new techniques, materials, and textures—it is folly to bow to the fad of the moment, especially in major expenditures. Don't worry about what "'they" are doing this fall. Someone has wisely said that following a fad or making concessions to the latest vogue in home decoration can keep one's true "personality from coming through." TO DISCUSS 1. What purposes should a house fulfill? Note to leader: Try to elicit the following responses from the class a home must be functional; it must be suitable economically; it should possess individuality; it should be as beautiful as a homemaker can make it. 2. A rule of thumb in decorating is that nothing in a house is worth its space unless it is useful or beautiful or both. Can you justify this statement? Give examples. THE THEME! S THE THING Unity and interest are created when a room has a theme or focal point to coordinate its parts. One homemaker chose four handsome inexpensive prints of old colonial Williamsburg. Her husband skillfully framed the prints, painting the mats surrounding the pictures the exact color of the walls, which lends an unusual note. The livable color scheme for the room is carefully pulled from the prints, an old trick but still a very effective one for achieving harmony. Another woman created a room with a feeling that was different because she expressed a particular point of view. She built her living room around some family heirloom Jasperware Wedgewood plates. The blue plates with their white cameo reliefs are stunning with the light wedgewood-blue walls and washable white corduroy draperies she has made herself. Driftwood, gathered from the beach, is featured over the mantle of a modern home, along with contemporary glass in jewel tones. Your theme might be a piece of furniture you wish to feature, a fabric, a rug—anything you own or obtain or create which you feel comfortable with and to which you wish to give prominence. COLOR IS MAGIC Do certain colors ever make you happy, irritable, serene, or depressed? Color can accomplish more inexpensively than any other decorating ingredient. It is the magic which can unify odds and ends of furniture, minimize architectural. Defects, and make a charming home out of a dull one. As a rule it is best to have classic, simple backgrounds in neutral or subdued colors, and to use strongLESSON DEPARTMENT er color for accents. However, no one wants to obtain the effect in a room referred to years ago as "waiting room tan." One predominating color in a room is good, and large areas of one color in small rooms tend to create a sense of space. Larger rooms can tolerate color and pattern for warmth and softness. Color transition from one room to the adjoining room is also important. TO DISCUSS How can we become more sensitive to color and its use? (The leader might draw from the class the following: reading of homemaking magazines; study with one's own home in mind, visits to stores selling home furnishings, museums, and_ public buildings; be observant of the use of color but not critical when visiting homes of others; be conscious of color combinations everywhere, including nature; converse with artists, and people who have a broad knowledge of color; experiment with swatches of fabric and color samples. Emphasize that learning about color can be a thrilling experience throughout a homemaker's life.) SUMMARY The selection of furniture and its arrangement, floor coverings, the exciting subject of accessories —these are a few of the numerous areas to explore and study to aid you in changing a house into a home. Awareness and study will also help you to develop a feeling for good design, proportion, and balance. In Roman mythology we read of Janus, guardian of the gates and doors, who is represented by two faces because every door looks two ways. It is also said that one face is looking to the past, while the other scans the present and the future. We 473 JUNE 1966 should try to look at both the past and the present with our minds and our affections in order to express personality in our homes. Learn to be happy in living with what you have. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Few, indeed, can redecorate and/or add to furnishings all at once. It takes work and planning. Make a tentative ode Or five-year-plan for home improvement, listing each of the years across a page and under each year the anticipated improvements, replacements, or additions, with the estimated cost. Some years, of course, you may do nothing. Star those items you or your family can do yourselves. Example: Under 1966 you may plan new linoleum for the kitchen—$100.00, *new cafe-style curtains for kitchen, and *materials to refinish top of David's study desk— $5.00. FIRE HAZARD OF CLEANING CLOTHS USING SOLUTION IN MAY HOMEMAKING LESSON The February 1966 Relief Society Magazine, page 144, item 8, of the work meeting lesson for May, contains a suggestion for a solution for cleaning medium and darkcolored wood. The suggested solution is made by adding 3 tablespoons of boiled linseed oil and 1 tablespoon of turpentine to 1 quart of hot water. While this is an effective cleaning solution, there is danger of fire by spontaneous combustion if the cloths used in applying the solution are not carefully discarded or destroyed. They can be placed in metal cans with tight-fitting lids, or hung on a clothesline outside in the shade, where air circulates around them, before disposing of them. They should never be left in a room, in a drawer, or in a place where heat, sunlight, or fuel could cause the linseed oil to ignite. 6 ras eon a ®@®eseeeeeeoeneetsteeeni Ree on ee Ke TTR ae A RAE PO fe UE AE Film: Fully Dramatized Sound Filmstrip Py The First Vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith Here you can follow the thrilling beginning of the restoration during 1820, including the revivals, Joseph's search, his first vision, being ridiculed and reviled, and his testimony. A valuable soundfilmstrip, in full color, for each Latter-day Saint family to cherish and show upon numerous occasions (Family night, firesides, missionary work, class lessons, etc.) 152 frames Record: Side 1 The Apostasy Side 2 The First Vision Magnificent Aid for the Missionary and Teacher included as an excellent companion feature to 'The First Exciting Bonus Feature Vision," it concerns the establishment of the primitive Soe seers 2-in-1 offer DESERET FILM P both for just $10.50 | 2231 Garfield Avenue Salt Lak Church of Jesus Christ founded upon apostles and prophets The Apostasy guided by revelation and the great apostasy which followed. = Send check or money order to: e City, Utah 84108 THE MORNING SKIES ARE FAIR AND BRIGHT Vilate R. McAllister The morning skies are fair and bright— Then mists begin to gather, And chances are before it's night We'll have inclement weather. Oh, who can tell at break of day What fortune may befall him Before its ending? Who can say That there will naught appall him? Still, let not worry, doubt, and fear Engulf the morning hours. Expect the day to bring its share Of happiness and flowers. But lest a storm come unannounced, Prepare your soul to greet it As part of life. Salvation lies In how you've planned to meet it. HE WR eee one 475 476 NEW AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN PAYS *100 WEEKLY even for life to Non-drinkers and Non-Smokers! At last—a new kind of hospitalization plan for you thousands who realize drinking and smoking are harmful. Rates are fantastically low because "poor risk" drinkers and smokrs are excluded. Since your health is superior there is no age limit, no physical examination, no waiting period. Only you can cancel your policy. No salesman will ever call. Starting the first day you enter any hospital, you will be paid $14.28 a day. You do not smoke or drink— so why pay premiums for those who do? Every day in your newspaper you see more evidence that drinking and smoking shorten life. They're now one of America's leading health problems — a prime cause of the high premium rates most hospitalization policies charge. Our rates are based on your superior health, as a non-drinker and non-smoker. The new American Temperance Hospitalization Plan can offer you unbelievably low rates because we do not accept smokers, who cause high rates. Drinkers and Also, your premiums can never be _ raised because you grow older or have too many claims. Only a general rate adjustment up or down could affect your low rates. And only you can cancel your policy. We cannot. DO THIS TODAY! Fill out application below and mail right away. Upon approval, your policy will be promptly mailed. Coverage begins at noon on effective date of your policy. Don't delay. Every day almost 50,000 people enter hospitals. So get your protection now. We invite 'close comparison with any other plan. Actually, no other is like ours. But compare rates.. See what you save. MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE Read over your policy carefully. Ask your minister, lawyer and doctor to examine it. Be sure it provides exactly what we say it does. Ther, if for any reason at all you are not 100'/, satisfied, just mail your policy back to us within 30 days and we will immediately refund your entire premium. No questions asked. You can gain thousands of dollars you risk nothing. 477 READ YOUR AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN BENEFITS 1. You receive $100 cash weekly — TAX FREE—even for life, from the first day you enter a hospital. Good in any hospital in the world. We pay in addition to any other insurance you carry. We send you our payments Air Mail Special Delivery so you have cash on hand fast. No limit on number of times you collect. We cover all accidents and sicknesses, except pregnancy, any act of war or military service, pre-existing accidents or sickness, hospitalization caused by use of liquor or narcotics. On everything else vou're fully protected—at amazingly low rates! 3. Other benefits for loss within 90 days of accident (as described in policy). We pay $2000 cash for accidental death. Or $2000 cash for loss of one hand, one foot, or sight of one eye. Or $6000 cash for loss of both eves, both hands. Or both feet.. IMPORTANT: include first premium with application. LOOK AT THESE AMERICAN TEMPERANCE LOW RATES Pav Monthly $300 $590 $7 | $79 and under pays $ 2 $0 $ 28 SAVE TWO MONTHS PREMIUM BY PAYING YEARLY! Pay Yearly +38 $59 Each adult 19-59 pays Each adult 60-69 pays Each adult 70-100 pays Pf Sam cow ene oe oe oe oe ow oe oe © oe © Om © Om © 8 © © © © Oo Oe © Oo 6 oe oe oe oe eee oe R. S. 5882 TEAR OUT AND MAIL TODAY BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE APPLICATION TO BUCKINGHAM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, EXECUTIVE OFFICES, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS ror AT-100 AMERICAN TEMPERANCE HOSPITALIZATION POLICY Name (PLEASE PRINT) Street or RO & City County. State Zip « Age: Oeste of Birth Month Day Year Hergntne §89WeEsght Relationship Occupation Beneficiary | also apply for coverage for the members of my family listed below. NAME AGE HEIGHT WEIGHT BENEFICIARY BIRTH DATE -—lale| «~ "Yo the best of your knowledge and belief, are you and all members listed above in good health and free from any physical impairment, or disease? Yes{) No{} To the best of your knowledge, have you or any member above listed had medical advice or treatment, or have you or they been advised to have a surgical operation in the last five years? Yes) Wo] sIf so, please give details stating person affected, cause, Gate, name and address of attending pliysician, and whether fully recovered. Neither 1 nor any person listed above uses tobacco or alcoholic beverages, and | hereby apply for a policy based on the understanding that the policy does not cover conditions Originating prior to its effective date, and that the policy ls issued solely and entirely in reliance upon the written answers to the above questions. Date: Signed: xX Mail this oo wt) AMERICAN TEMPERANCE ASSOCIATES, Inc., coun premium to BOX 131, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS | ee C— — — ee GE GE ae am Ge Se GE at ee ee ee ee ee, & SACRED MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES (SSA) =>ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen - 25 COME, COME, YE SAINTS —Madsen. O 2-cccceeeeeeeeee 25 aGOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner.30 dHEAVENS ARE TELLING Haydn oon eeeeeeeeeceeeeeees 25 aLORD BLESS AND KEEP ' THEE—Madsen 2 0004- 26 aNO MAN IS AN ISLAND —Ringwald 200 cseceeeee ee 25 aPRAYERFUL HOUR—Chopin...25 —_——OH, MAY | KNOW THE LORD AS FRIEND—Madsen a. ONWARD CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS—Simeone.30 eeTHIS DAY IS MINE—Ware.20 [] Money Enclosed Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC (CO. 145 SOUTH STATE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111 Please send the music indicated above: On Approval [] Charge [_] Money Enclosed Address C ity and State The totally new | ae Mice, | PARK FREE in the spacious lot just east of our new store or in any of the downtown lots. WE VALIDATE a git al TO A HURT CHILD Alda L. Brown What sweet rapture In one refrain. To hear a robin In the rain! What sheer ecstasy It is to know That violets bloom Beneath the snow! But, oh, the happiness That calms our fears, To see a smile Break through your tears. ABSOLUTES Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn The mountain skies are such Unfathomed blue That green of pines must be Intense in hue, The day-moon pale, and clouds Be snowflake white To match and keep this key Of high, pure light. WASTED HOURS Ruth G. Rothe The door is locked on yesterday And no one has the key To open it and let us grasp Our lost felicity. PLAN YOUR VACATION NOW around an exciting MURDOCK TOUR 1. Vikingland Tour Departs July 12th Jet DC-8 express to Scandinavia for 22 days of enchantment —Miss nothing of real interesting Norway, Sweden and Denmark — Highest Class accomodations at amazingly low cost. Phone: 328-3161 Name.____ _ MURDOCK = TRAVEL — City -.- - BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a@ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News. Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3 60 $Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5. «i«ti#iw N...80 a c= - DESERET [REWS PRESS a Please send me full particulars on: [] Vikinglands Tour [ | {LDS Temples and Lake Louise Tour 2. LDS Temples & Lake Louise Tour - Departs July 11 12 spiritual-rich days in United States and Canada—Air conditioned bus to the beauties of Lake Louise and summer in Western Canada — Temple Sessions in Cardston, Idaho Falls and Logan (Temple recommends required) MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main /Salt Lake City, Utah @eeeeeseoec eee oeo eee eae eens asd oO SSS S © OO OOS OS OOS OS SO © COD H OFS OFOSHH HOES SO NORTHWEST TOUR June 25 — July 2 HILL CUMORAH TOURS July 1966 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 23 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 21 NEW ENGLAND—CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 479 97 95 480 Mrs. Isabell Christensen Overson Richfield, Utah Mrs. Serena Jacobson Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Provo, Utah Mrs. Lily A. Parker Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Catherine Alice McCarrell Bee Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Alice Brindley Waters Orem, Utah Mrs. Hettie Jane Smith Hunt Salt Lake City, Utah MY HOUR Mrs. Mary Garrett Richland, Oregon Mrs. Eva Maesar Crandall Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Phebeth Ann Evans Seymour Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Clara Woodbury Barlow Sylvester Adams Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Charlotte Powell Smythe Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Isabel Riggs Ostvig Monticelle, Minnesota Mrs. Mary Court Sutton, Coldfield England Mrs. Elizabeth Collings Parrish Centerville, Utah Pearle M. Olsen This hour is mine to lose or use— To mar, to brighten—as | choose. This hour is all | have secure; Now | am breathing, calm and sure! This hour is brief, yet will be gold Invested in myself—when old. This hour of mine has power to be Important in eternity! choice Reading FASCINATING WOMANHOOD by Helen Andelin $5.50 Remake yourself into a woman your husband will admire! This book is a scholarly and completely thought-out approach to the creation of total femininity within you. These are the principles you must apply in winning a man's genuine love. UNDERSTANDING THE THINGS OF GOD by Alma P. Burton $2.95 A popular writer takes us into the realm of modern doctrine to help us understand God's relationship to man. This well-written book gives us a deeper understanding of the basic truths concerning God — that he lives, that we were created in his image, that exaltation is possible through faithfulness. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Sait Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange California 92669 Enclosed please find check - money order --- Or. I have an account, please charge -..-- Total amount, plus 32% Utah Sales Tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or plus 4% Calif. Sales Tax for Calif. Residents ordering from Orange 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA TOME AED ---20--------00---==" Check Books wanted: - oe —E Oe Nea (] Fascinating Womanhood ( Understanding The Things of God Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah BIRTHDAYS ARE FUN! Whether you're a little girl or a seventy-five year old sugar company, birthdays are memorable. Before we blow out the 75 candles on our Diamond Jubilee Birthday Cake, we want to make these wishes for our many friends: May you enjoy the fun of making sweet treats oo 0) tht for loved ones... U and I Sugar will help with as fine a sugar made, anywhere in the world! Ae: May your days start bright and end pleasantly 10 Ti we _. From breakfast to evening dessert, U and I Sugar promises to sweeten your day! 10 bs. Mar weeny OAL May you have abundant sunshine and rainfall to Qn poe.. And produce a bumper crop of home-grown U and I Sugar. Thal akers, bottlers, candymakers, canners, 4 canal freezers, preservers and ice cream manufacWs. Turers U and I will continue to supply the a highest quality sugars that help make your — products the best of their kind. Ip Te May our 45 million dollar sugar industry flourish and continue to contribute millions of tax Tt, dollars for better schools, highways and public services. - Mo 0 