HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Sponge Cake.—Three eggs, one cup of flour,
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half tea-
spoonful soda.
	To Remove Ink from a Carpet.—Make a paste
of arsenic and water, apply it, wash off and put
on more.  After three or four applications the ink
will disappear.
	Molasses Cake.—Take two cups of molasses
and one half-cup of shortening, and add as much
flour as you can stir in; then add two cups of
boiling water, in which you have dissolved one
large teaspoonful of saleratus.
	To extract ink from cotton, silk and woolen
goods, saturate the spot with spirits of turpentine
and let it remain for several hours; then rub it be-
tween the hands. It will crumble away without
injuring either the color or the texture of the arti-
cle.—Ex.
	To Color Furs Black or Brown.—Take ten grains
of gallic acid, ten of tincture of iron, and one
ounce of acetic acid. Dissolve the gallic acid in
the tincture of iron, and add the acetic acid, and
apply with a fine comb.  If black is desired the
furs must be moist, not wet; but if brown, the furs
must be dry.
	How to Keep Eggs.—We know of nothing bet-
ter in which to preserve eggs than lime water and 
salt.  Take a half barrel and put into it two
quarts of fresh lime, pouring upon it a pail or two
of warm water and stirring until thoroughly dis-
solved or slacked.  Add to this a gill of salt and
then fill up with water. The eggs may then be
packed in jars, tubs or another half barrel, and
when in position pour on enough of the solution to
cover them.  There is no danger of making the 
mixture too strong of lime, but too much salt will
discolor the shells.  When the eggs are taken out
for market they should be washed clean and dried
before packing again.
	Pie Crust.—The most healthy pie-crust is made
of thin, sweet cream and flour, with a little salt.
Don't knead thin. Bake in a quick oven. An-
other way is to sift a quart or two of flour in the 
pan. Stir in the center a little salt and a half tea-
spoonful of soda well pulverized. Now put in the
whole a cup of soft (not liquid) lard, or butter
and lard mixed, stir it thoroughly with the flour;
next add two scant cups of good sour milk or but-
ter-milk. Stir all quickly with the flour, in such
a way that you need hardly touch it with your
hands till you can roll it out. Bake quick. This
will make three or four pies.
	Old Potatoes.—Potatoes, to be good should
never be exposed to the light, but be kept in as
dark a place as possible.  After they begin to
pront in the spring, they should be taken up


from the bins or heaps and kept in boxes or bar-
rels. If you have a few barrels saved out for
family use, instead of picking them over and
spreading them every few weeks, put them into
enough barrels, so you can turn them from one to
another.  This keeps them moving so often that
the sprouts cannot grow enough to do much harm.
The sprouts which come from the potato use up
the nourishment which it contains and leaves it
soft, watery and insipid.  By treating them as
proposed above, they may be kept in condition
for the table several weeks longer than by sprout-
ing them, and at the same time save a deal of
work.


