VISIT OF GEN. GARFIELD.

	Gen. J. A. Garfield, member of Congress
from Ohio, reached our city on his way East
from California, Friday morning, June 4th.
His Excellency Gov. Axtel, Delegate Can-
non, Mayor Wells, Elder John W. Young,
and other prominent citizens of Salt Lake,
and the members of the City Council went
to Ogden to welcome him. In the after-
noon, a complimentary excursion to Lake
Point was arranged in honor of his arrival.
	Among the invited guests, were his Ex-
cellency Gov. Axtel, Justices' Emerson and
Boreman, Secretary Black, Gen. Smith, Dr.
Vollum, and several other officers civil and
military. Mayor Wells, Hon. George Q.
Cannon, Elder Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow,
John W. Young, A. M. Musser, Bishop John
Sharp, and members of the Common Coun-
cil, were nearly all accompanied by ladies.
Among the strangers were, Mr. and Mrs. L.
P. Sage, from California.
	The entire company was very select, and
occupied seven cars well filled. Clinton's
landing was reached before four o'clock;
soon after nearly all the party went on board
the steamer and sailed away towards
Church Island. The Lake was unusually
quiet, the sea breeze fresh and exhilarating,
the company animated and social; every-
thing was conducive to pleasure and enjoy-
ment. Generous supplies of cake, ice cream
and refreshments suitable to the occasion
were served on the steamer. After re-
maining out about an hour, the steamer an-
chored again at the pier, where it was pro-
posed the boat should be re-christened in
honor of the distinguished Delegate, he
being the first Member of Congress who
had honored the boat by his presence. Ac-
cordingly, the owner of the boat, Mr. John
W. Young, proposed that Mrs. Horace S.
Eldridge being the eldest lady present
should break a bottle of "champagne" and
amid loud cheers, the gallant little steamer
received the name of "Gen. Garfield." Mr.
John W. Young then suggested three cheers
in honor of Mayor Wells, and three in hon-
or of his Excellency Gov. Axtel.
	The party was one highly enjoyable, and
all with one accord pronounced it a complete
success. On the way home, a committee
was appointed to arrange another trip for
the next morning, to go on the Southern
train to Provo. Gen. N. Kimball and Dr.
J. P. Taggart formed the committee. Ac-
cording to the programme arranged, the
pleasure party went South on the morning
train, and reaching Provo the party visited
the factories, and other places of interest,
and returned home about one o'clock. In
the afternoon  Gen. visited the most no-
table places in the city, called upon Presi-
dent Young, and visited the theatre in the
evening. Sunday, Gen. Garfield, in com-
pany with his Excellency Gov. Axtel at-
tended the meeting in the Tabernacle.


