JUNE, QUEEN OF SUMMER

Softly tread 'midst buds and roses,
	Fragrant with the breath of June,
Blossoms teeming o'er with sweetness
	Redolent with Spring’s perfume.

Crowning glory of the summer,
	June, the Queen of Nature's bowers!
Buzz of bees, and insects murmur,
	Songs of birds beguile the hours.

In the gloam of early evening,
	Softly falls a radiance fair;
Nature's jewels—dew-drops sparkling
	Fairy foot-prints everywhere.

Listen closely to the zephyr,
	Faintly breathing God is here,
And the echo's answering murmur,
	Angels' voices lingering near.

June 11th, 1875.				EMILE.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of the Senior
and Junior Co-operative Retrenchment
Association held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms May 29th, 1875 was once
posessing the characteristics of a spirit of
enterprise and energy in the work now be-
ing engaged in with united effort by the
societies of sisters, namely, the HOME INDUS-
TRIES.
	After the usual ceremonies and reading of
minutes by the different secretaries, the
president Mrs. M. L. Horne expressed her-
self highly edified with the minutes of the
young ladies; spoke of her sorrow on ac-
count of President George A. Smith's illness
and her desire that all present should pray
for his restoration to health, if it was the
will of God. With a few other impressive
remarks she gave tho meeting into the
hands of the sisters and also invited Presi-
dent Joseph Young who was present to ad-
dress the congregation; he very cordially
responded to the invitation, and addressed
the sisters in a very earnest and forcible
manner. Counselors P. Woodruss, E. How-
ard, E. R. Snow and Z. D. Young, Mrs. W.
East and E. S. Barney each spoke con-
cerning the work now in progression; Coun.
Z. D. Young alluded particularly to those who
were asleep in Zion, apparently inspired to
arouse the sisters upon that subject.
Throughout the meeting every one seemed
actuated in speaking, to drift into the same
channel and true union of interest and feel-
ing prevailed.
		NORTH OGDEN, MAY 6th, 1875
DEAR EXPONENT:
	We though we would try to interest
your readers with a few words from the 
young Ladie's Retrenchment Association of
North Ogden.
	We number 58 members, we have held
10 meetings only, we were organized March
4th, 1875, under the direction of Prest. C.
H. Wheelock who has really been a father to
this people here; he has aroused a feeling of
interest in all matters of improvement
and worth.
	On Sunday the 18th of March, there were
59 baptized on the 25th, 49 more were added
to the church.
	On the 16th of last month we were favor-
ed with a visit from Sr. Eliza R. Snow and 
Sr. Howard from Salt Lake City, and Sr.
Richards and others of Ogden; they at-
tended the Relief Society meeting and had
a good time.
	They also met with out Retrenchment
Society and gave us some excellent counsel
which we all appreciated; both meetings
were well attended.
[Column 2]
	Sr. E. Barney also paid us a visit on the 
22nd, and assisted us in our duties by her
timely counsel and advice, encouraged us to 
enter into HOME INDUSTRIES, showed
us how to commence and left with her a 
us a spirit of enterprise; we now re-
alize the importance of manufacturing
all we can, and thus be more independ-
ent; steps are being taken in that direction.
	We feel to ask the Lord to inspire these
sisters to go among the people and continue
their labors, for we know they are blessed
of the Lord, and we hope ere long they will
again visit North Ogden.
	When ever we meet together we talk of 
the refreshing time we had with those tal-
ented sisters; and we pray for their welfare
and the prosperity of all that labor for the 
good of the Saints and the building up of 
the kingdom of God. We enclose our reso-
lutions and though we are young beginners
we feel that we may not be the least, after a
while.
	Respectfully,
		EVA E. CHADWICK President,
	GEORGINA SPARKMAN, ELLENOR BER-
RETT Secy's.
	Resolutions of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association of North Ogden
March 31st, 1875.
	1st. Resolved, that it shall be the duty
of the President to attend, and preside at all
our meetings, and if she is necessarially de-
tained, it shall be the duty of some of her 
Counselors to preside in her absence.
	2nd. Resolved that we will keep good or-
der in our meetings, and they shall be con-
ducted with singing and prayer; and that 
we seek for the spirit of the Lord to direct
us in all we say and do.
	3rd. Resolved that we will daily attend to 
our prayers, and live our religion to the best
of our ability, and do unto others as we
would wish to be done by.
	4th. Resolved that we embrace as articles
of our faith the Bible, Book of Mormon,
Doctrine and Covenants, and the standard
works of the Church with the preachings of 
the Presidency and recognized authorities.
	5th. Resolved that we will retrench from 
the use of bad language, from speaking evil
of our neighbors and associates, and from
speaking against any of the doctrines or 
principles of our faith; and that we will
avoid loud laughter and every thing that is
unbecoming and unchristian like.
	6th. Resolved that we will read good
books, and attend Sabbath School, and meet-
ings whereby we may obtain good instruc-
tion, and our associates shall be those of our 
own faith.
	7th. Resolved that we will endeavor to 
keep the Word of Wisdom according to the 
spirit and meaning thereof.
	Eva E. Chadwick President,
	Martha Michael,	}
	Elizabeth Chadwick,}
	Esther Chadwick,	}	Counselors.
	Isabella Crandal	}
	Sarah Jane Wades,	}
	Emily Knowles,	}
	Georgina Sparkican Ellenor Berret Secy's.
	ROCKPORT May 10th, 1875.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We the sisters of the Relief Society of 
Rockport held our second annual meeting on 
May 6th when Bishop S. Atwood from Kam-
as and Bishop Bryant of this place were
present; also Mrs. M. J. Atwood President
of the Relief Society of Kamas accompa-
nied by Ann Harder and sister DeLuce.
	They gave us much valuable instruction
upon the privileges, blessings and duties of
[Column 3]
the Gospel and the Societies. The report of 
our society read by the secretary showed the 
funds left in the Treasury amounted to 
fifty-eight dollars and forty-five cents. We 
have had more of the sisters join our so-
ciety in the last year, and though there are
but few of us in our little settlement we 
strive to be united, and hope by the bless-
ing of our Heavenly Father, to hold out
faithful to the end that we may obtain that
crown of glory laid up for the faithful. We 
receive much valuable instruction through
the columns of the EXPONENT, which we 
ought to practice as sisters in the Kingdom
of God. We wish you success in your en-
terprise at all times and humbly subscribe
ourselves, Your Sisters in the Gospel.
	ANN BRYANT President, Elizabeth Ver-
non and Alice M. Malon Counselors, Char-
lotte Merehat Treasurer, Sarah Staker,
Secretary.
			FAIRFIELD MAY 3, 1875.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	It is rarely that any thing of note occurs
here, but the recent visit of sister Snow to 
the Relief Society in this place was a pleas-
urable break in our usual monotony.  She 
held two meetings, one with the Relief So-
ciety on the afternoon of Thursday April
22nd, and another in the evening, of a more
general character, at which the attendance
was very large.  At her request many of 
our young men were present and she ad-
dressed them very earnestly, giving them
excellent counsel, (as also to the sisters pres-
ent), one of our Gentile residents after-
wards observed, "he had never heard bet-
ter preaching" At the close of the meeting
she spoke of her desire to organize a Re-
trenchment Association, if it was agreable
to the feelings of those she was addressing,
and requested all the young ladies that were
in favor of such an organization to meet
with her on the following morning April 
23rd. A considerable number met at the 
appointed time and a Young Ladies Re-
trenchment Association was organized with 
the following officers.—
	Mrs. Agnes Young President,
	"  Elvira Healy,	}
	"  Zilpha Young,	}
	Miss Sophy Snider, }	Counselors.
	"  Sophy Bessinger, }
	"  Mary Carson,	}
	Mrs. Amanda Barlow,
	Miss Ada A. Kendell, Secretary,
	"  Jemima Savage Assistant Secretary.


