HYGENIC NOTES

	NERVOUS HEADACHE.—Nine-tenths of
all persons who suffer with nervous head-
ache might be permanently relieved by at-
tention to the laws of hygiene, to cat, sleep,
breathe and live correctly.
	FAST LIVING means spending vital force
in excess of the vital income, ending in
physiological bankruptcy.  It does not nec-
essarily apply to a young rake who spends
his life in low pleasures.  It applies to any
one, who lives beyond his physiological in-
come.
	DIFFERENCE IN PERSONS.—People in a
very exhausted condition, by excesses, over-
work, etc., have little power to throw off
trivial diseases even, and the reverse is also
true.  Thus some persons die with trivial
diseases, and others live with the most dan-
gerous ones.
	WEIGHT OF BRAIN.—The weight of the 
brain varies less than the body with varying
conditions. At thirty, on the average, the
man has attained his maximum of brain
and mental power; at fifty he has less brain
and mental force than he had between
twenty and twenty-five.
	GETTING RID OF BAD HABITS.—Risingabove them is better than fighting them.
Infinite toil would not enable one to sweep
away a mist, but by ascending a little you
may overlook it all together.  So it is
with our moral improvement; we wrestle
fiercely with a vicious habit, which would
have no hold upon us, if we ascended into a
higher moral atmosphere.
	LABOR AND LONGEVITY.—Work by
method and on system, even when severe,
is not only quite compatible with long life,
but it is actually conducive to it, while the
torpor of idleness, or the excitement of fitful
effort are the sure precursors of senile de-
generation. This is a useful doctrine to 
preach, and still more useful to practice.
	DRUNKENNESS AND DISEASE.—There is
no doubt whatever, that drunkenness, in
that ungovernable stage in which the vic-
tim cannot restrain himself from drinking,
is a disease of a most serious character.
The condition of the brain is one of great
and distressing exhaustion.  Alcohol tem-
porarily relieves it, by increasing the heart's
force and dilating the arteries, only to make
the matter worse in the end.  The true
method of curing such cases is by rest and
wholesome food, restoring the system to
health by hygienic measures as rapidly as
possible.  The use of the Turkish bath in
such cases has proved highly useful.


IN vain do they talk of happiness who
never subdued an impulse in obedience to a 
principle.  He who never sacrificed a pres-
ent to a future good, or a personal to a gen-
eral one, can speak of happiness only as the
blind do of colors.


For the Exponent.
