			HOME AFFAIRS.

	MONTGOMERY QUEEN'S Circus and Menage-
rie are expected in this city soon, and have an-
nounced their appearance June 21, 22 and 23.
They are on their way East, from California.
	HON. SETH Paddlesford, ex-Governor of
Rhode Island, with a party of ladies and gen-
tlemen from Providence, called upon President
Young recently, while on a visit to our city;
Gov. Axtel accompanied them; the party also
visited the Theatre in the evening.
	MRS. JAMES A. Oates., with her comic opera
troupe, commences this evening, June 15th, a
short series of popular entertainments in the
Salt Lake Theatre. She ranks highly among
artists of her type, and will no doubt be thor-
oughly appreciated, as our citizens seem to 
possess a rare taste for highly finished acting.

[Column 2]
	MR. E. W. Tullidge left this city Wednesday
evening, June 9th, for the East to make ar-
rangements for the publication of his new his-
torical work, to be entitled "The Founders of
Utah." It is anticipated, judging from his
well-known literary ability, that this work is
accurately and attractively written.
	WE ARE most happy to announce that the
health of President George A. Smith is steadily
and gradually improving; he is now able to ride
out occasionally, and all things being propi-
tious, it is probable he will soon be permanently
recovered. The Saints have great reason to be
thankful that the Lord has seen fit to spare to
them, this great, good and useful man.
	PLEASURE PARTIES, picnics and out-door ex-
cursions seem to be "the order of the day" in
this most delightfully pleasant month. Sun-
day Schools, Literary Societies, Good Templars,
Masons, and various different clubs, institu-
tions, etc., and private parties,all seem desirous
to improve the halcyon time.  Among the
most favored resorts are Lake Point, Lake side,
Farr's Grove, Spring Lake and Lindsey's Gar-
dens.
	A FRAGRANT and beautiful bunch of flowers
from the "Glendale Gardens," was placed upon
our table a few days since.
Where once the sage-bush grew in lonely solitude,
Mocking the winds that shook its gray and shaggy coat,
The florist's care has loveliest garlands strew'd,
And softest, sweetest perfumes, summer zephyrs float.
	We are indebted to Mrs. Wm. Wagstaff for
the kind favor of the beautiful bouquet.
	THE EXAMINATION of six young ladies who
have been for three years engaged as pupil
teachers at St. Mark's School, took place Satur-
day, May 29th; Bishop Tuttle, Professor Turner
and Miss Cole conducted the examination,
which reflected great credit on the institution,
and also upon the young ladies themselves, as
their success proves them to have been ener-
getic and industrious.  The young ladies are,
Misses Inez Earl, Ellen Huey, Mary and Katie
Ferguson, Agnes Lynch and Hannah Dawson;
they are now prepared to fill the position of
teachers, by practice and theory.
	TOURISTS, TRAVELERS and pleasure-seekers
now a days, give Salt Lake a call on their way,
and manifest considerable interest as well as
curiousity in our city and its institutions; the
hotels are fast filling up, and they are still com-
ing.  The prospect is, we shall become better
understood by people of cultivation and refine-
ment. Among the recent arrivals are two sis-
ters of the Order of the Holy Cross, Mother,
Mary Augusta and Sister Raymond; they are
from St. Mary's, South Bend, Indiana, and are
at present the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Marshall.  Their design is to establish a school
in this city, under the auspices of their church.
	MONDAY EVENING, June 7th, a number of
ladies and gentlemen, interested in the subject
of sericulture, met per appointment in the 
City Hall, for the purpose of arranging matters
to establish a society to promote the manufac-
ture of silk, in its various stages of production.
A. M. Musser, Esq., was chosen Chairman,
and Mary Carter, of Bountiful, Secretary of
the meeting. Persons who were present relat-
ed their experience with regard to the subject
before the meeting, and made some statements
encouraging to those entering upon this branch
of HOME INDUSTRY. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs.
M. I. Horne and Mrs. E. S. Barney were chosen
as a committee to obtain means to procure ma-
chinery and so forth, necessary to forward this
laudable undertaking.  It is believed by those
best acquainted with the silk manufacture,
that this climate is well adapted to the necessa-
ry resources for its production. In some for-
eign countries it is a source of immense wealth;
and with patience, energy and perseverance
may eventually, become a success in Utah.


