			GENERAL.

	The fifty-ninth Anniversary of the Amer-
ican Bible Society was held at Chicago Tues-
day May 25th......The Grand Master of Free
Masons in Iowa has decided that dancing in
the Lodge room is inconsistent with the
good of the craft.........Ex-Gov. Bullock
of Mass. will deliver the oration before the
"Phi Beta Kappa Society" of Brown Uni-
versity at the next commencement......An-
other steamship the Germanic of the White
Star Line, is on her way from Liverpool to
New York, the largest afloat except the
Great Eastern......The Sioux delegates have
left Washington and are on their way home
......Extensive wood fires are raging on the
Union river Maine......Half the town of
Great Bend, Penn. was destroyed by fire
Saturday, May 29th, loss about $125,000
......The Libby Elevator in Brooklyn, Iowa,
was burned Wednesday, May 20th; loss $50,
000.......Mrs. Lucy Redington, widow of
thelate Gen. Redington, has filed her applica-
tion for letters of Administration upon her
husband's estate, it is the largest estate ev-
er acted upon in Sacramento Co. Cal.......
The silk merchants of New York are com-
bining for protection against smugglers......
Mrs. Genan of Cleveland, Ohio, was mur-
dered by her son-in-law May 30th......The
Viceroy of Egypt has resolved to construct
a railroad along the valley of the Nile to
the interior of Africa......A new Masonic
Temple was dedicated in New York Wed-
nesday June 2nd, with great pomp and dis-
play......A deputation of the London Anti-
Slavery Society presented a memorial to
Lord Derby asking government interference
to stop the civil war and the slave and coo-
lie trade......The public debt was reduced
nearly $1,200,000 during the last month......
The official inquiry into the loss of the
steamer Schiller has been commenced in
England.......Judge Milton formerly Chief
Justice of Mass. is dead......The Colorado
Stock and Exchange Board opened at Den-
ver City June 1st.
			FOREIGN.
	An international congress on the history
of America before its discovery by Colum-
bus, will meet in Nancy France, July 22nd
......In the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Ireland there are only 137 daily news-
papers published......Moody and Sankey
continue their daily revival meetings with-
out any diminution, Earl Shaftesbury,
Lord Cairns, Earl of Craven and many
clergymen, have been among their hearers
recently......Forty-six paintings and sketch-
es by the late J. T. Millet, were recently
sold in Paris for 276,000 frances......A mag-
nificent new building has been commenced
in Southampton, Eng. to be called "The
Watts Memorial Hall and Sunday School"
......Mr. Leigh Hunt, grandson of the fa-
mous poet, recently committed suicide in
London......The English Arctic Expedition
left Portsmouth on the 29th of May......
Three hundred and three women contribu-
ted to the Fine Art Exhibition this year in
Paris......The Theatre Royal at Lieds, Eng.
was destroyed by fire recently......Prince
Bismarck has dissolved the German Press
Bureau......The King and Queen of Swed-
en have visited Berlin, it is said their visit
is a manifestation of Sweden's support of
the three Emperors......There was a serious
fire at Guelph Ontario recently......A fire in
Portland N. B. May 28th, destroyed $250,
000 worth of property, 140 families were
rendered homeless......Cholera prevails in
the city of Baroda, India......500 persons
have been attacked with small-pox and 161

[Column 2]
have died of it recently in Andenne Lorette
The monetary panic in Rio Janeiro is sub-
siding......The family of Captain Hall, the
Arctic explorer, has been presented with a
gold medal by the French Geographical
Society......The money contributed to the
memorial of Canon Kingsley in Eng. now
amounts to $5,290......Woman's Suffrage
has suffered another defeat in England......
Gov. Jovellar formerly Cap. Gen. of Cuba,
has been appointed to command the army
of the Centre of Spain......Prince Batthy-
ani's colt "Galopin," won the Chief Derby
stakes at the recent Derby races......The
corporation of London has resolved to in-
vite the Mayor of New York to the inter-
national municipal banquet next month......
J. M. Sweeney, one of the alleged ring
thieves of New York died in Paris re-
cently......$200,000 damage by fire at Hull,
Canada, and $50,000 at Hamilton, Ont.......
The Laborers Federal Union of Great Brit-
ian intend sending delegates to examine
the Mississippi Valley, with regard to mak-
ing settlements......There is a report of a
heavy cyclone on the Chinese coast which
wrecked several vessels......The Emperor
of Prussia has conferred the ordeer of ivil
merit on Hon. George Bancroft historian,
and Henry W. Longfellow, poet, of America.
			PERSONAL.
	Colfax made 6,000 lecturing last winter
......Charles A. Dana of The sun, has gone
to Europe......Mme. Demorest, accompanied
with Miss King is taking a tour through
Mexico.........Max Muller is journeying
through Italy and receiving the greatest re-
spect......Mr. Trenor N. Park of Benning-
ton, Vt. Is said to be the fourth man in
point of wealth in the United States......
His property is valued at $17,000,000......
James T. Fields of Boston has received
invitations from nineteen colleges to de-
liver lectures in July......Mr. Ralph Waldo
Emerson, attained his 72nd birthday May
26th......Stephen S. L. Hommedieu died at
West Point, May 26th, he was one of the
pioneers of Cincinnatti and for many years
President of the Cincinnatti; Hamilton and
Drayton railroad......Commodore Vander-
bilt was eighty-one years of age on Thursday,
May 27th......Judge W. L. F. Warren, one
of the oldest and most eminent of the citi-
zens of Saratoga, died recently at the age
of eighty-two years......Rev. J, Houston
Ecceleston, D. D. of Philadephia, has been
chosen Bishop of the Diocese of Iowa......
Mark Brown, convicted of the murder of
Gloester Carrin in Sullivan County, New
York, Oct. last, is sentenced to be hung in
Monticello, July 31st......Dr. Saville the In-
dian agent in Northwestern Neb. has re-
signed his position.....Col. H. T. Temple-
ton died in San Francisco, Friday, May 28th.


The Cincinnati Musical Festival opened
on the 11th of May and was held four days;
the chorus numbered 825 voices and the
band 102 pieces.  It is said to have rivaled
in its character and importance the most
ambitious efforts of New York or Boston and
even the achievements of the great choral
festivities of England.  The streets were
decorated as if for a great victory; every
public building was hung with banners,
streamers and festoons, and the locomotives,
steamers on the river and even the street-
car horses were ornamented for the occa-
sion. The most difficult pieces were ren-
dered with such perfect success that corres-
pondents are at a loss for words to fitly praise
the performance. The festival ended with
"Prometheus." The audience, which con-
sisted of more than 8000 persons, were en-
thusiastic in their applause.


