NOTES AND NEWS.
	A PROSPECTUS has been issued of a daily
morning newspaper, to be published in San
Francisco, and called the "San Francisco
Democrat," devoted to current news, and
the interests of the democratic party.
	THE "OVERLAND Monthly" for June,
closes the fourteenth volume. It is steadily
improving and always contains interesting
and valuable articles.  Its writers are through
its columns, establishing a successful literary
reputation.
	THE JUNE number of "Harper's Maga-
zine" commenced the fifty first volume of 
this popular and interesting work. It de-
servedly occupies a place in the highest
rank of American Literature, its circulation
is larger than all others of its class com-
bined. Its contributors are all persons of
superior intellectual, and educational attain-
ments.
	DORA DARAMORE'S "Golden Dawn" has en-
tered upon its second volume. Journals
devoted to the interests of women, and con-
ducted wholly by them, are springing up
among the cultivated and thoughtful of our
sex; not aspiring to usurp or infringe upon
the rights of men, but honorably and effi-
ciently to maintain and dignify our own.
	MRS. S. R. WELLS, widow of Professor
Wells lately deceased, has announced her
intention of carrying on the business her
husband had so firmly and judiciously es-
tablished.  We heartily commend her wise
policy, and while we would condole with
her in the irreparable loss she has sustained,
we also wish her the success and patronage
she so truly deserves.
	MISS MINNIE Conway of Brooklyn, will
take the place prominently occupied by her
mother, (now deceased) in the management
of the Theatre. Mrs. Bateman of London,
has also resolved to assume the manage-
ment of the Theatre left by her husband.
These are certainly women of energy and
determination, and there can be no doubt,
they will feel far happier than in sitting
down and repining, at the Providence of
God.
	MISS ANNIE Dickinson delivered an ad-
dress before the National Temperance Con-
vention in Chicago June 3rd, in which she
asserted that crusaders and temperance
meetings have had very little effect in
checking the evil of intemperance; that po-
litical organization and influence would be
the only sure means. It was resolved that
the convention, request the next Congress
to prohibit the manufacture and sale of all
alcoholic spirits within the boundaries of
the United States; and use their united in-
fluence to bring about this most desirable
change in the American Republic.
	MRS. CAROLINE M. Severance ex-Presi-
dent of the New England Woman's Club
with her husband and a party of friends,
visited our city on her route to California.
This noble and accomplished woman has for
many years been an efficient writer, speak-
er and worker in woman's cause; she deserv-
edly merits all the high enconiums of praise
that are lavished upon her from all sides,
[Column 2]
where woman's talents are being recognized.
She expressed herself pleased with, and in-
terested in the improvement in our beauti-
ful city, and was gratified to learn that we
were so successfully advancing in the inter-
ests of education, and general cultivation.
She manifested the most sincere apprecia-
tion of our efforts in Journalism, commend-
ed our course enthusiastically and wished
us unbounded success. She is certainly one
of the most attractive and highly cultivated
women we have ever met, and we shall re-
member with much pleasure her words of
encouragement. In her tour through the
city she was accompanied by Mrs. Varnall,
of Washington, a lady of considerable cel-
ebrity, who is also interested in Women's
Work.


[For the EXPONENT]
