			ST. GEORGE May, 27, 1875.
DEAR EXPONENT;
	Trees, vines and plants are now in their
brightest glory of verdure, and bloom of
beauty and fragrance. And it is delightful
in the early evening of a day when Sol has
awakened the dormant mercury and sent
it bounding up to 90° and over, to trace the
garden walks, bordered with thousand-hued
flowers, to breathe their delicious odors
which calm the nerves and cause us to for-
get corroding care, and allays the irritation
from disappointments or the annoyances of
persons and circumstances around us.


We have many and many a time, been
asked by otherwise intelligent people, when
looking over the garden of floral lovliness 
“Does this pay?” and “how can you afford
to spend so much time and money on your
flowers?” As though the world and hu-
man life were made up of dollars and cents
—As though our mission here was to col-
lect creature necessties, and banks of gold
only—as though beauty, lovliness, taste, re-
finement—and the delighful converse with
nature, were only the needless superfluities
of the visionary.
	Do such people ever recollect that we are
created with two eyes, and but one mouth—
and therefore should have twice the
amount of things of beauty which are a
joy forever, we need for the mouth.
That we have two organs of smell and may
enjoy twice as much in fragrance as in eat-
ing our food?—That we have two ears pro-
vided to give us pleasure in sweet sounds
of music, the joyous langauge of birds, and
dear voices in converse with our friends?
	Do such people care to know that the as-
sociation with the beautiful in nature, with
flowers, delightful plants, sweet soothing
music, together with the influence of good
women, are the great powers that smooth
the roughness, give taste, polish, finish
and refinement to otherwise coarse, selfish
and uncongenial natures, and cause the dis-
tinctive line between mankind and the
lower animals.
	We think it just as necessary for our com-
fort, well-being, usefulness and longevity
here on earth to have ready for our enjoy-
ment the, beautiful, lovely, and soothing in
nature, as food, raiment and etceteras that
make up domestic requirements.
	We plant flowers, nurse them, and care
for them because we love their beauty, their
fragrance their soothing, softening influence;
their moral and refining tendencies.
	Children should be taught to love, and
cultivate them, the types of purity, inno-
cence and heaven. And they will be bet-
ter than those who have no taste for flowers.
Mothers see to it, teach your boys while
they are with you, first to love, then to plant
and nurse flowers, and when they go out
alone into the world, there will be a deep
lasting remembrance of a home, a mother
and lovely flowers that will be a restraint to
keep them from many an evil. Yes make
home beautiful and enticing, and the child-
ren will love, cherish and long for it. 
