WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Stephania Wolicka of Warsaw has
received the degree of Dr. of Philosophy
by the Faculty of the University of Zurich, for
a very commendable and accurate disserta-
tion on the condition of the Grecian women.

	DR. Frances Hoggen of London, reports
that "in that city women physicians receive
the same fees as men." She says micro-
scopic specimen mounting is an employ-
ment particularly appropriate for women of
refinement.

	MRS. L.H. Stone of Kalamazoo Mich. de-
livered a lecture on the "Origin and devel-
opement of Art," to the Ladies' Literary So-
ciety of Grand Rapids, on Thursday even-
ing May 20th, which is said to have called
forth the highest praise and admiration of
an attentive and appreciative audience.

	MRS. Comstock an efficient temperance
lecturer, states that she has visited 115,000
prisoners in America; and of these 105,000
have been convicted directly or indirectly
through drink.  The workhouses were also
largely peopled from the ranks of intemper-
ance.

	MISS Ronian of Providence R. I. having
experience as clerk in one of the finest
drugstores in that city, is now apothecary at
the Rhode Island General Hospital, having
the whole charge of that department. She
is said to be the only lady apothecary in the
city, and is studiously pursuing the study
of German, in order to more efficiently
qualify herself for the work.

	MISS Stebbins one of our most highly cul-
tivated and truly gifted women has written
recently referring to the deaths of celebra-
ted and useful women who have been taken
from our midst this last winter; her words
are touching and appropriate.  She says; "It 
seems as though this unprecedented win-
ter has been one rough tempestuous wind,
beating on the tree of life and shaking off
its choicest fruit." Four women whose lives
have fallen with the winter storms, we
shall vainly yet longingly look for, as for
the coming flowers of spring.  What James
Freeman Clarke said of one of them Susan
Dimock, was characteristic of them all. "So
filled with a desire to help her suffering sis-
ters."

	THE Seventh Anniversary meeting of the
New England Woman Suffrage Association
commenced Monday evening May 24th, in
Tremont Temple, Boston, Mass. Mrs. Ju-
lia Ward Howe presided.  The meeting was
one of vital importance to the women of
America; many celebrated speakers ad-
dressed them from time to time; and con-
siderable business was transacted.  Officers
were chosen for the coming year. Bishop
Gilbert Haven of Georgia in the opening
session, spoke warmly, eloquently and com-
mendably in favor of "Woman Suffrage;"
he says "There is a moral instinct about
woman that is needed." Women will rep-
resent the home, the family, the church,
education, peace and purity, and the same
good man also says; "We want deliverance
from heavy burdens, and we can only ob-
tain it by the help of women.


