		MY MOTHER.

	Dear young readers, being highly pleased
in reading the resolutions entered into by a 
portion of the young ladies of Utah, please
allow a humble writer to drop a few words
from experience. I once had a mother who
like yours, was the best of women; she
extended to me her faithful love and care
in sickness, health and childish errors,
through infancy and childhood, and when I
began to go in young company which is an
important period to our future life, mother
chose my company; (we then knew noth-
ing of so called Mormonism,) and I must
never go without hers or fathers consent,
and the time for my return was set; I must
shun those who indulged in unbecoming
conduct. At times I thought, why is moth-
er so strict with me, why not I, like others,
have pleasure without so much restraint;
and I thought, when I am a few years older
I will have my own way a little and get
along just as well too; however mother's or-
ders must be obeyed, if not, certain penalties
were attached.  But dear reader the older I
grew, the more I saw wisdom in mother's
particular government over me, for I have
known good young women who have been
indulged to associate with those who revel
in unlimited gaiety, soon become the sub-
jects of reproach; then getting discouraged
would say "I care not for what is said about
me;" hence by keeping improper company
many good young ladies and gentlemen too,
have fallen.  But to conclude my narrative
after my marriage which was in my nine-
teenth year, mother said to me, "you have
been obedient to your parents," and she gave
to me a book which was given her by her
brother in the twelfth year of her age A. D.
1805. I felt happy to hear mother talk thus
and the little treasure I still keep.  But alas a
sorrowful hour came, which to me had al-
ways looked far off, when my dear parents
went to rest, and ah the many places I can
now see, where I might have saved mother
from weary steps had I been more thought-
ful, but permit me to repeat as a sister has
said girls: "help mother in her many toils."
Remember the poem which says of a truth:
	"Who sat and watched my infant head
	When sleeping on my cradle bed
	And tears of sweet affection shed?
							My Mother
	When pain and sickness made me cry,
	Who was it sang sweet lullaby,
	And wept for fear that I should die?
						My Mother &c.
	A wise man once said, "honor and obey
thy father and thy mother in the days of
thy youth that thy days may be long etc."
	Oxford, May, 1875.		M. A. B.


