GIVE FREELY.

	It is a well understood and beautiful truth,
that there are many blessings, of which, the
more bestowed upon fellow creatures, the larger
become the stores of those who impart. And
these are ever the brightest, dearest and sweet-
est gifts of God to His children; such as wis-
dom, love, hope, and the sunshine of the heart.
	When a kindred human is seen in trouble, it
need not cost a cent to offer words of encour-
agement and consolation worth thousands of 
dollars. It costs nothing indeed, but such words
are never given without recompense. See the
tired, careworn housewife, whose "work is
never  done," sink wearily down at evening,
with the common, comfortless "O dear! I've
been busy as I could be all day long, and yet I
have done nothing!"
	Do not let her fall asleep with that cheerless
impression, if you are blest with power to, re-
move it. And you are if you have ever watch-
ed the daily course of a faithful wife and moth-
er, and if you have a heart that can feel and
appreciate, and a tongue that can speak. Ask
her who it was that this morning tenderly
awoke the precious lambs who lay so quietly
sleeping in the low trundle-bed, with kisses and
loving words, that they might not be "too late
for school, and miss the pretty prizes so anx-
iously awaited? Who, though hurried with
breakfast that papa might be at his work in
good season, still found time to soothe Jennie's
grief over her tangled curls, and to help comb
out the snarls. To find careless Willie's jacket
that "would always get lost however much
pains were taken to  put it safe at bed time!"
And to show Sue the easiest way of finding out
that "hardest sum that ever was!" which she
could not possibly get through her sleepy little
head the night before?  Breakfast over and
the children gone to school, who brought baby
in from the street a dozen times or more, that
he might not be run over by wagons or carria-
ges; from the water that he might not paddle
and take cold; who fed him, sung him to sleep,
and attended to all his infant needs? And who
has thus followed up the thousand duties nec-
essary to be looked after in the home circle,
each trifling in itself perhaps, but altogether
amounting to a good and noble day's work?
	Tell her these things are not considered as
"nothing," by the great and all-wise Father who
has granted us each a probation here, that we
may work.  That if we work wisely and well,
no matter what our employment may be, the
Father is satisfied with us.  Tell her that to
raise a family of children, directing them in
the proper channel, is as great a work as the
Lord has assigned to any of His sons and
daughters. Cheer her sinking spirits, enliven
her wearied soul, administer to her freely and
without stint and you will find yourself doubly
refreshed and blest.
	So with all who labor or repine, who grieve


or fret or in any wise find life burdensome.
Lift them up. Comfort and encourage wher-
ever you can, and especially in your own home
circle.
	Husbands, cheer your wives. Make them
feel that you appreciate their efforts to make a
home-heaven for you and your children, though
the world knows nothing of them. Wives,
never offer other than sweet words  love, and
bright, sunny smiles to the men you have cho-
sen as companions. Parents, be patient and
long-suffering with the children God has en-
trusted to your care. Never miss an opportu-
nity of teaching a child a truth and the value
of it, no matter how small, for all truths are
important. Lead the children in the straight
and narrow way, remembering ever that to
lead, you must precede them.
	By the spread of truth, will wickedness be
swept away, and the Millennium brought
in.  Therefore, give freely of the good within
you, thus increasing light and beauty around
you, as well as your own store.


