FLOWERS.

	HE that preaches gratitude pleads the
cause both of God and men; for without it
we can neither be sociable nor religious.
	FANCIES are the blossoms of facts; purer
and lovelier for their strong hold on truth,
just as the fairest roses are grown in the fin-
est soil.
	LOVE is the fruit of the soul, that when
friends drop away (as leaves thinning) is
more perfectly ripened by the sun that
reaches it from on high.
	CHARACTER is the eternal temple that
each one begins to rear, yet death only can
complete. The finer the architecture, the
more fit for the in-dwelling of angels.
	IT is the most beautiful and humane
thing in the world to mingle gravity with
pleasure, that the one may not sink into
melancholy and the other rise up in wanton-
ness.
	ONE of the saddest things about human
nature is, that a man may guide others in
the path of life without walking in it him-
self—that he may be a pilot and yet a cast-
away.
	STRIVE, strive, my soul to be innocent;
yes, beneficient! Does any man wound
thee? Not only forgive, but work into thy
thoughts intelligence of the kind of pain,
that thou mayest not inflict it on another
spirit. Then its work is done; it will never
search thy whole nature again. Oh, love
much and be forgiven.
	TRUE POLITENESS.—This crowning grace
of character cannot be acquired by the study
of books of etiquette. They indeed are use-
ful as manuals of social intercourse and may
help one in the observance of conventional
rules, but they cannot make the true lady
and gentleman. Genuine politeness strikes
its roots far below the surface, deep in the
heart and blossoms but in all the little acts
of life.


MRS Edna Cheney has been giving a ser-
ies of conversational parlor lectures in De-
troit, to very select companies; her subject
was "Art and Artists."
	POOR Irish woman with six children to
railroad ticket agent: "Please sir, give a
poor widdy with six orphan children a
ticket to Milwaukee?" Ticket agent:
"What have I to do with your orphan chil-
dren? I ain't their father, am I?" Woman:
"That you ain't, sir; their father was a da-
cent man."


