		AN AUTHOR'S MIND.

	When one sits down to write an article, so
many subjects crowd upon the mind, and clus-
ters of ideas amalgamate themselves together,
that to seperate them into distinct file, and give
each set of items their proper place and care-
ful thought before putting them upon paper, is
an undertaking which none realize, save those
whose minds are fruitful in spontaneous pro-
duction, and have not been subjected to sys-
tematic training.
	When the spirit of inspiration is upon us we
may have wisdom to cull the choicest frag-
ments of our thoughts and frame them fitly
together, so as to produce perfect harmony of
language and ideas, but there always seems so
much to write about, that this culling, fitting
and systematizing is really difficult.
	Watts gave many useful lessons in reference
to this subject, in his work entitled; "Watts on
the Mind," but we sometimes think he lived
in a different day and a slower age; in this
generation everything rushes headlong, and
our ideas seem to follow the same lead; instead
of clear, distinct and definite steadfastness to
our subject, we grasp a heterogeneous mass, and
try to express more than our space or time will
admit of; the same fact is apparent in regard
to sermons, verbal or written; the speakers take
a text, and launch forth amidst an ocean of
ideas, a sea of words, and the space is so broad,
that unconsciously they drift about, and lose
sight of the starting point.
	To tell a great deal in a few words, and in
choice language accurately, is a very desirable
acquirement, and should be regarded as a su-
perior accomplishment.  It is extremely pain-
ful to listen to a fact, or an anecdote, from one
who is unable to convey the true meaning,
without a multiplicity of words and phrases
(not always fitly chosen) which have no real
bearing upon the subject in question.
	These are some of an author's troubles;
thoughts which come crowding up in throngs,
harassing the brain, and struggling for a defi-
nite existence. We are infected, and we know
it, but tell us, is it not verily true, that a theme
is often carried out beyond, or beside, or even
against its original purpose? We think there
are good critics, who will testify with us, that
the title page, the preface, is often a vision of
the future unfulfilled.
	However, we were treating of an author's
mind, which resembles not an empty tene-
ment, but "a barn stored to bursting;" it is a
painful pressure constraining to write, perhaps

[Column 2]
involuntarily; memory, imagination, zeal, per-
ceptions of men and things, a crowd of inter-
nal imagery, and we write to be quit of them,
and not let the crowd increase.  And now let
us elucidate our own, such as it is, richer or
poorer, better or worse, "a medley of crudities,"
a power to be exerted, which opportunity hath
not yet matured; sometimes it is well to go dis-
guised, to address the judgment unbiased and
unsanctioned by name; only of one thing be
sure, we desire to keep inviolate, as much when
masked as when avowed, the laws of truth,
charity, sincerity and honor, to exert at all
times an influence for good, to maintain a strict
adherence to the principles of the Everlasting
Gospel.
	To cultivate, as highly as possible, the raw
material furnished by the heart's own foun-
tain; to select all the most precious and beauti-
ful metals which are combined in the mine of
the human soul, and labor to separate them
from the base alloy; to cull from the greener
garden of thoughts, the freshest and rarest buds
and blossoms; bear then, with this desultory
illustration of a momentous subject, and mer-
cifully spare our individual tender conscience
your literary censure.
	Be not offended when we tell you, that we
pray to be preserved from gossip, from scandal,
from self-conceit, from the love of praise; that
we may speak kindly of those, whose wit and
genius and graphic powers, help to smooth the
rough places in life, and to give cheerfulness to
the heart of mortals; the brilliant, the clever,
who overflow with mental affluence. And
now, dear friends, be assured, we have shown
you our honest mind; perchance you may
think wearily enough we have disposed of our
subject, but recollect if you, our fellow-labor-
ers, are not like-minded, or like-fitted, cour-
teously consider and freely forgive for mutual
unlikeness; and if together our track lie, along
the great high road, remember, good critics,
"there is room and work for all;" after a little
perhaps, your patience may find us better;
much to say and well witting how to say it, it
may happen at some future time, to amplify
and  perfect and gravitate into something of
order these crowding fancies; but in as frank
and artless a fashion as heretofore, we would pub-
lish our confessions, our humbleness; not for-
getting the scraps of paper covered with half-
written thoughts, powerful gusts of feeling, "a
half-made progeny."
	Let us hasten to be practical; meanwhile a
brighter prospect glows in the distance, for
those who are earnest and devoted in the good
work of refreshing mankind, advancing knowl-
edge, consoling sorrow, blessing humanity; for 
all such there is certain success, a rich recom-
pense, a glorious reward.
	June 8, 1875		E. R. Wells		B. B.


[Column 1]
