			EDUCATION.

	Underlying all the great questions of sci-
ence, religion, government and society,
which at the present day engage the
thoughts and actions of the best men and
women of the land, are those of Heredity,
Hygiene and Longevity. Not yet fully
recognized by the majority of people as of
vital importance, still they insinuate them-
selves into every discussion and into all
statistics. Being vital questions, they will
assert themselves, and in time, the specula-
tive mind will necesarially start on its
journey, only after having carefully consider-
ed the laws of reproduction, transmission,
the preservation of health, and life—and of'
decay.
	Man’s responsibility to his Creator, for
the care and preservation of his own life,
and that of others, will be clearly defined.
Natural laws will supplant society laws.
The apparent conflict between Science and


Religion becomes less and less distinct.
Part of the money now yearly spent in im-
proving breeds of animals, applied to physi-
ological training and education of children,
would indirectly do much to settle the
questions of the duty of individuals to the
government, society and themselves, of the
co-education of the sexes, and of woman's
sphere. As forerunners in the physiologi-
cal and hygienic discussion, which has
been inaugurated, have appeared "Sex in
Education," Sex and Education," "Build-
ing of a Brain," and "The Education of
American girls." Sex has been the stumb-
ling block. Ably has the subject been hand-
led on both sides, and out of the combat
comes the fact that Americans are becoming
sensible of physical and mental defects—in
American men and women, where hereto-
fore has been mainly a mutual admiration.
	Sex is so enveloped in the questions of
inheritance, longevity and disease, and it
has been made the cause of all the evils
which happen to women in all the various
toils of life.
	Given, a boy and girl of equal health, the
same inherited health, and with identical
surroundings, if both are physiologically
educated, the result, in effect, will be the
same, bearing in mind the difference in
physical organizations.
	Strong mental influence or will, may
force a feeble body into unnatural vigorous
work, for an uncertain time. A powerful
bodily vigor may carry for a season, a feeble
intellect, as a strong river current might
bear a frail, badly equipped vessel upon its
waters, only to be shipwrecked when opposi-
tion presented itself, or strength to meet
emergencies became a necessity.
	Brain work demands good healthy blood,
and this can only come from food that is nu-
tritious, and that the stomach can digest,
yet this fact is unknown, to or unheeded by
many.
	As bearing upon the question of the edu-
cation of the sexes, the following extracts
from the essays of the various well-known
female contributors to the "Education of
American Girls," are of value.
	"To us, as women, as wives, as mothers,
as older sisters, as friends, as teachers, as
college girls, as school girls, and to us alone,
the settlement of the question has at last
been fairly handed over. We have only,
in all these relations, to learn the laws of
physical health and to obey them, and the
whole matter will be set at rest forever."
	*	*	*	*	*	"When our
women are better educated, there will be
less prudery and more real modesty."
	*	*	*	*	"the work must
be begun early in life, and the mind of the
girl must be braced by a recognition of
natural law to the acceptance of all the con-
ditions of her nature. But for this, she
must learn to distinguish between the
ideal and the actual, between woman’s, na-
ture, as God designed it, and her nature, as
long years of hereditary sin and disease and
false custom have made it. It helps us
very much to learn the how, even if we can
never solve the why."
	Mind and body depend for strength, upon
each other; health is largely the result of
physiological education or the observance of
Natures laws; usefulness in any sphere is
best attained through healthy lives.


