	EXCURSION TO LAKE POINT.

	The beautiful spring weather which we
are enjoying, together with the innumera-
ble facilities for amusement which our city
and its suburbs contain, seem to invite at
present the patronage of those who love
innocent enjoyment.  Lake Point seems to
be the favorite resort, and excursions and
picnics to that place are of frequent occur-
rence.
	On Monday the 31st ult. another grand
excursion party of two hundred and fifty
persons under the supervision of P. S.
Horne and O. F. Whitney took the Utah
Western train and rode across the country
to Clinton's; where they arrived soon after
9 o'clock. Immediately afterwards the
party boarded the fine steamer belonging to
Mr. Jno. W. Young, (since christened "Gen.
Garfield") and sailed away from the harbor
amid the shouts of the men, the gay laugh-
ter of the ladies, and the delicious music of
Daynes' full quadrille band stationed on the
hurricane deck of the boat.
	An exhilarating sea breeze was bearing
down from the north and for four hours the
gay excursionists continued, in dancing, and 
various ways to enjoy themselves. With
the exception of a few cases of sea-sickness
nothing occured to mar the pleasure of the
time.
	Dinner was served at Clinton's Hotel—
after which the ball room, and Ice cream
room below, became the centres of attrac-
tions until 6.30 p. m., when a longing for
"Sweet Home" took possession of the souls
of our pleasure wearied fellow-citizens; and
taking their seats in the cars they were
soon whirling away towards their homes;
which they reached tired and sleepy—but
quite willing at some future date to "try it
again."
	Among the party conspicuous in their
uniforms, was the crew of the "Water
Witch;" a portion of the "Utah Yacht Club."
This little boat with its crew sailed from
the mouth of Jordan River on the morning
of Sunday the 30th ult., entered the Salt
Lake; stopped on the way at Church Island;
and made Clinton's Landing in the evening.
						    O. F. W.


THE longest word in the English Lan-
guage is Smiles; because there is a mile be-
tween the first and last letters.


