BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	When hearing the rehearsal of trials, priva-
tions and hardships endured by the camp of
Israel, while journeying from the Mississippi
River to the Missouri, my mind inadvertently
turns to that portion between Nauvoo and
Garden Grove, as the darkest in my memory.
We were poorly prepared for such an exodus;
and many joining us who were anxious to come,
but had little or nothing of the necessaries for
their own sustenance, ours had to be divided
among them. We had many weeks of cold,
stormy weather, and our teams being insuffic-
ient to draw the loads, rendered traveling over
those soft praries next thing to an impossibility;
expecting, as we did, to go over the mountains
that year we were put on rations, and had to
lengthen out our flour and provisions in the
most economical manner. During that time
our sea biscuit, crackers, parched corn meal,
etc., which were among the luxuries, molded,
until finally they were fed out to our horses
and cattle. At the beginning of the journey
the crackers went very well to eat dry, but
I'll never forget the first time I saw a meal
made of sea biscuit broken into milk. I had
called at Uncle Brigham's tent—I had always
addressed him by that title—where he was
just taking some for dinner, and he invited me
to have a bowl; but I declined, with thanks,
and a feeling of wonder how he could relish it.
When it came to sitting down daily to milk
and water porridge and crackers in it, it be-
came so nauseous that hunger could not tempt
me to eat it.
	At this period the young, and even aged
people were forced to walk, if it were possible,
a goodly portion of the way to save the teams,
no matter what the weather might be, storms,
or excessive heat, or how weary, faint and foot-
sore we became, there was no alternative but
to endure till we had reached the spot called
Garden Grove. Here they unpacked and
sent out many valuables into the Missouri set-
tlements and exchanged them for provisions
and the most needful articles. They also
traded horses for oxen and milch cows, and
from that time our living was more comfort-
able. Father's and Bishop Whitney's families
were divided up into messes, each tent having
one or two women to cook for the teamsters,
and wagons were provided for all the women
and their little children to ride and to sleep in
at night. Although we were not rid of hard-
ships and vexations, consequent upon the
moving of a great camp, and the intense heat
of the weather, we certainly had little cause
for complaint compared with what we had ex-
perienced previously, and the rest of our jour-
ney was made with comparative ease.
	The whooping cough, which had so sorely
afflicted my mother's babe, Brigham Willard,
previous to starting from Nauvoo, grew lighter
from the time we commenced camping out at
Sugar Creek, and Mother Whitney's babe,
Mary, which had been sick unto death, im-
proved rapidly from that date. There were

[Column 2]

others, and even some of the most feeble and
delicate women, that grew stronger for a time,
until after the hot weather set in. Some of
the strongest, who were more exposed, became
prostrated with fever and ague, etc., before
arriving at Chariton River, where we stopped
a time for the weather to settle. My mother's
little one had commenced to run down with
teething, etc., and her own health, which was
never good, failed to that degree that Mary
Ann Shefflin, one of father's wives, who had
lived with her in Nauvoo, being anxious to re-
lieve her, took the child, and she loved and
cared for him as tenderly as though he had
been her own, till after we arrived at the end
of our journey.
	Lately, in looking over some old papers, I
found a letter of exhortation and counsel to
father's family, written by my husband, at his
dictation, as he was about leaving Cutler's
Park to go with President Young to attend to
some business over the river. It is dated
August 22nd, 1846, my 18th birthday, and
had been preserved among father's papers. The
words being as appropriate to day as then, I
reproduce a portion for the benefit of those
who regarded him in the light of a friend and
wise counselor.
	"I wish to give a few words of counsel to
my family and to all that belong thereto—both
male and female, old and young, and what I
say unto one I say unto all, and shall expect
it to be heeded in the full sense of the word.
	Of late there has been a great deal of care-
lessness, imprudence and slothfulness with
many of the members of my family as regards
to taking care of themselves—going without
suitable clothing and stockings in cold, chilly
weather, sitting out of doors under the bower
after dark, when it is cold, wet weather, expos-
ing themselves to sickness and death, which we
have suffered much of. These things have
caused me much sorrow and regret, and have
caused my family much toil and hardship and
fatigue, which has been brought upon us by a
total neglect of counsel, which would have
saved us these things.	*	*	*	*
I am now about leaving you for a short time,
and I improve this opportunity to address you
in this manner. I love my family, and I have
never faltered for the first time in seeking their
welfare, to provide everything that lay in my
power for their happiness, and still intend to,
inasmuch as my counsel can be respected. Now,
my feelings are this: That all domestic affairs,
as far as women are concerned, are out of the
way 'while it is called day,' for when the night
cometh no man can work, for the Lord says,
in a certain revelation, 'Retire to thy bed
early, that thy body may be invigorated, that
thy days may be many.'
	"Now, I shall require these things at your
hands, except circumstances shall otherwise
direct. Cease from vanity, seek humility and
meekness, bow before the Lord in the morning
and at eve, and in so doing your days may be
many, peace and tranquility shall soothe your
bosoms, health and happiness shall dwell in
thy wagons, tents, wigwams and cottages,
while these things are observed. Cease from
murmuring or complaining, finding fault with
your friends or with each other, but manifest
to all men and women, by your works, and the
closeness of your tongues, and the integrity of
your hearts, that you are right, and that God
is with us of a truth. I always do, and shall
expect that those which constitute my house,
will remember me before the Lord, that I may
have wisdom, health, patience and endurance
to endure all things, that I may always give
suitable counsel to my family, even that that
shall proceed from the Holy Ghost, for I never
wish to counsel by any other spirit.
	I now feel to bless you all in the name of
the Lord God of Israel, with peace, prosperity
and salvation, that we all may be pure in

[Column 3]

heart. These are the words and blessings I
feel to communicate and leave with my dear
family.
	As ever, I remain, your most affectionate
husband, father and friend in the new and ever-
lasting covenant. Amen."
