EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In April of the present year we began reeling
silk from cocoons for the purpose of manufactur-
ing handkerchiefs and dress goods. Since then,
we have used about two hundred pounds of co-
coons, and have obtained nearly an average of
one pound of silk for every five pounds of cocoons.
only one lot, of twenty pounds, produced what is
considered a proper production, yielding six
pounds of silk from the twenty pounds of cocoons.
Some lots have yielded one pound from four
pounds, others have taken five pounds and some
six pounds to one pound of silk. This has been
in consequence of all the cocoons being old, and
partially destroyed by vermin.
	Understanding that nearly all the coooons in the
Territory were in this condition, we undertook the
task of reeling them, putting the price to be paid
for them at such a figure as would enable us to
meet the expense of working them up, and getting
them out of the way with as much profit to the
raisers as possible. We did not think, in the be-
ginning, that all would be satisfied with the results,
and we are not ourselves, for we have not been
able to obtain wages from the transaction, but in
doing so we have practically solved the problem
of taking the native material and putting it through
the various processes of reeling, spinning, scour-
ing and manufacturing into goods fit for the mar-

[Column 2]

ket, that we could do so on such a limited scale
profitably. We could not suppose but the opera-
tions have proven that, if the native material can
be supplied in sufficient quantities to keep in
operation all our looms, a very different and much
better condition of things could be shown. 	
	The price paid for the cocoons has not been
encouraging to the raisers, being three dollars for
every pound of silk realized from reeling. This
price was set on account of the condition of the
material to be operated on; and although we must
still hold to the principle of valuing the cocoons
according to their production, $3.50 may be safely
offered for the pound of reeled silk, realized from
newly raised cocoons; and a still further advance
may be reached for cocoons raised with special
care, and by experienced raisers. But this fact
must be proven by the reeling. In order that the
best results may be obtained, cocoons must be
reeled as early as possible after being harvested—
stifled and sufficiently dried to bear transporta
tion.
	A few ideas on the value of silk may not be out
of place here, and may serve to correct erroneous
impressions that some may have concerning it.
Raw Silk, which is silk in its first condition, when
taken from the cocoons is bought and sold sixteen
ounces to the pound. Hard silk, which is its se-
cond condition, having been spun and made into
thread, is still sixteen ounces to the pound. Soft
silk, which is its next condition in the course of
manufacture, is counted at twelve ounces to the
pound; the reason of this reduction is that, in the
progress of scouring, it has discharged twenty-five
per cent of foreign matter in gum, etc. Its value
increases rapidly as it passes through its various
processes of manufacture, until, when it has
reached the counter of the retailer, in many cases
it will be six or eight times its original value. An
approximate idea may here be got at of the amount
of cash capital which must go out of the communi-
ty to bring from the eastern market the quantity
of silk dress goods, handkerchiefs, ribbons, etc.,
which are consumed in our midst; and for every
pound of silk which we receive from the east,
not less than from $15 to $20 must go to bring it;
there is only the profits of the merchant remain
here. But, say some, "We can get them so much
cheaper from the east, and better finished than
they can be done here." This may be true so far
as we have gone; in some points only the reasons
are obvious. Our machinery is very limited in its
capacity; our help has been inexperienced; our
resources are all limited, and our expenses are as
high, in many cases, as though our production was
four times what it is. These things can easily be
removed, and as we have a climate and country
equal to any for silk culture. If we are only true
to our own interests, and determine to be self-sus-
taining, as we profess and ought to be, in two
years from now our merchants may become ex-
porters instead of importers of silk merchan-
dise.
	The above has been written at the request of
several friends of the Industry, and we cordially
invite all who are interested to come to the silk
factory and see our operations for themselves.
