CONFERENCE.

On the 19th of September I was privileged
to attend this conference in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, and it was a time of
refreshing to me, for I had not been feeling
well for some days, and felt inert, and in a
meditative mood, and it required some moral
courage to make the visit; but at two o’clock I
found myself seated in the room, and survey-
ing a goodly number of young girls, all looking
the personification of youth, which, in its self
is beauty.  They were all sweetly dressed, and
as I viewed the same, a panorama of the future
of those young people seemed to open before
me, and caused my heart to fill up with con-
tending emotions. They all unconscious of
their impending destiny, probably not giving
it a thought, though there might be some
minds drawn into a reflective mood—the fact
that they were there “in session” proved they
were living members, and in the present age of
apathy and indifference, among many of our
young people, that is saying much. The choir
was select, and the hymns impressively ren-
dered. I think it was the Eighth Ward
choir.	
	Sister Dougal presided in the unavoidable
absence of Sister Freeze, and she filled the
chair admirably. She is indeed her father’s
daughter, and resembles him in features and
physique, and of that she may be proud—far
more than if her brow was encircled by the
coronet of a countess.
	Her words to the young people were words
of rarest affection and wisdom.  I feel that
they did fall in good ground, and will bring
forth sweet fruit.
	Miss Colebrook spoke with touching earnest-
ness, giving some of her youthful experience,
and it was an epitome of the experience of a
young Latter-day Saint.
	Sister E. Taylor spoke, as she always does,
wisely and to the edification of her hearers. I
felt I would have loved to hear some of those
young voices adding their intellectual morccau
to the delightful spiritual treat. I shall live
on a hope that we shall yet be so gratified, for
it would certainly add very much to the in-
terest of the meeting, though all was good,and
a heavenly spirit prevailed the assembly. I
feel these Associations, with the Primaries, are
effecting much good. They are schools that
cultivate the minds of all who attend them—
both children and officers. I always feel that
I gain some instruction, or some information
when I attend one, and I pray that the youth
of both sexes will realize the importance of
enrolling themselves among so goodly a com-
pany, for the angels are there, and the smile
and approbation of our God is upon them.
	When I left the room, I felt well and strong,
and my spirit as elastic as any one in that as-
sembly. I imbibed the sweet influence—as the
magnet influences the needle. What more
testimony need we have than such healthful,
effects upon our systems? Oh! let us not only
sing that heavenly song, “Nearer, my God; to
Thee,” but actually try to live so that we may
indeed attain that life-giving proximity.
	HANNAH T. KING.
	September 22nd, 1885.


[Column 1]

