SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of this Stake was
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
September 18th, 1885, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
presiding. After the usual exercises, the roll
of presidents was called, and nineteen presi-
dents and two counselors responded. Minutes
of previous conference were read and accepted,
and twenty-nine written reports were read by
the secretary, and the Stake treasurer's re-
port.
	Remarks were then made by Sisters B. W.
Smith, E. S. Taylor, M. W. Wilcox and Presi-
dent M. I. Horne and S. M. Kimball. The
counsel and instructions were general in
character, though calculated to define the di-
rect duties of those engaged in the work of the
Relief Society, and how they might magnify
the calling in which they were officiating. The
storing of grain, the library for the Temple,
and many other charitable objects were referred
to, and the sisters were advised to take active
steps to assist in these matters, and were
specially enjoined upon to take care of the
sick, and in no wise, or upon any account not

[Column 3]

to neglect the poor, and to do all in their
power to elevate those with whom they are as-
sociated, to help lift up and comfort, and to
seek for greater Union.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
'Wake, O wake, the world from sleeping," etc.
Benediction by Mrs. E. Howard.
	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
etc., Sister Catherine Smith, of Draper, re-
ferred to the re-organization of the Relief So-
ciety at Draper, which had been rendered
necessary by the decease of the former Presi-
dent, Mrs. Harriet R. Burnham.
	Mrs. W. Olsen, Prest. of the Sandy R. S.,
represented the society over which she presided.
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant referred to her visit to
Soda Springs, and how faithful the sisters
were in the Society there, though they were
but few in number. Spoke eloquently upon
the principle of plural marriage, and alluded
to the present trials of this people. Thought
the darkest hour had not come yet, etc.
	Mrs. R. C. Atwood made a few edifying
remarks; also Mrs. Diana Reid, Prest. of the
R. S. of the 16th Ward, and Mrs. E. B.
Fletcher, Prest. of the 8th Ward R. S. Each
of these sisters bore a strong testimony to the
truth, and exhorted all to diligence and faith-
fulness.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp occupied a short time.
Referred to her visit in the court room that
morning; felt we ought not to be cast down; we
should be full of hope, for we know the Lord
is on our side, and that the revelation given
upon plural marriage is from God, and we
must be true to that principle. Said, "This is
an age of progression and enlightenment, and
we must seek for wisdom and knowledge."
	Mrs. E. Howard made some excellent re-
marks upon the present condition of society,
and also upon the manner in which these offi-
cials, who interpret the law, change and twist
about the principles of government. Urged
the sisters to pray for those who had to be
brought before the courts, that they might be
inspired by the Spirit of God. Counseled
those who were foreign born to become natural-
ized citizens of the United States, that they
might have the privilege of voting at elections.
Said, "Let us pray for those who are in prison,
that they may be sustained and nourished; and
let us not encourage too much the pursuit of
pleasure and folly in our midst, but give the
young good counsel, and live so that the Lord
will make bare His arm for our deliverance."
	Prest. Horne made the closing speech, in
which she spoke of the sisters coming to their
conferences, of observing the Sabbath Day
holy in the household, and spoke strongly
against supporting our enemies and going after
the ways of the Gentiles. "The Lord wants
us to separate ourselves from the world, and
be a peculiar people. Let us be united and
work for the interest of the kingdom of God.
It is a time to be humble, that we may be able
to overcome and stand the test." Made some
remarks concerning Bro. Farnsworth's vision.
She said: "The time is not far distant when
there will be terrible groaning among the un-
godly and the enemies of this people; the rich
among us have the good things of this life,
and many are doing good, helping in various
ways to build up this work; the righteous poor
are doing the very best they can in helping to
build up the societies, and the Lord will pour
out His blessing upon them." Gave excellent
counsel to mothers in regard to watching over
their daughters, and in the care of children—
their training, and preserving their health.
Spoke of the condition of the nation, and the
account that must yet be given to the Almighty
for the shedding of the blood of Prophets and
Elders sent unto them with a message of salva-
tion. Closed by saying, "Let us pray humbly to
God that we may pass safely the evil day."
Conference adjourned to December. Singing.
Benediction by Prest. M. I. Horne.


