THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	It seems absolutely certain that important mat-
ters relating to this people are culminating to such
a degree as to indicate, at a very early period, a
solution of the knotty problem which is puzzling
the American people, and raising such a furore
among ministers and sectarians more especially.
Such a persecution as is furnished by the present
prosecution cannot last long in a country where
there is a semblance of freedom. There is, and
must be, somewhere, an element of religious
liberty diametrically opposed to the terrible op-
pression brought to bear upon the Latter-day
Saints at the present time. It must exist, even if
it be in the inner depths of the souls of the "Mor-
mon" people,and cause them to exclaim, "Give me
liberty, or give me death!"
	We are certainly, as a people, nearing a telling
crisis in the history of the Church, and whether
all will be able to stand it is a vital question. Ac-
cording, to the prophecies of our leading men in
these last days, Heber C. Kimball and others,
each person will be brought to a test, severe and
individual, that will prove the integrity of his
soul and the purpose of his heart.
	None of us know our own capacity for endur-
ance until we have been tested in the crucible that
refines and purifies even the most sincere and
zealous, and then they must be weighed in the
balance that determines the true valuation of a
Saint of God. How many can stand firm through
this severe ordeal remains to be proven, but one
who wishes to obtain the coveted blessing must
indeed be "meek and lowly," that he may retain
the Holy spirit that will lead him into all truth.
"It must needs be that offences come," said our
Savior, "but woe be to him by whom they come."
Evidently the judges and jurors and the district
attorneys do not comprehend the full meaning of
these words. If they realized and sensed the
position in which this crusade puts them, they
could not consent to the great responsibities being
placed upon them, and that they are daily assum-
ing most willingly. They evidently imagine, as
did the persecutors of old, that they are doing God
service, and thus acquit their own consciences
and proclaim themselves, before all the world
as civilizers and regenerators. Meantime, what are
the facts, and what is the exact status of those
who are driving some of the Latter-day Saints to
the extreme measures they are compelled to take
in o rder to answer the end of the Edmunds law,
which the Congress of the United States has
made valid and the Supreme Court of Washing-
ton has declared constitutional?
	There are many who do not accept, as correct,
this construction of the law of our common coun-
try, but are obliged to submit to the penalty in-
flicted and the precedent established by the
courts, or become exiles from home, country and
friends.
	The recent trials, under the Edmunds law, be-
fore the courts here, have given certain men a
good opportunity to show their manhood and to

[Column 2]

prove their integrity to the sacred and holy princi-
ples they had espoused, and upon the foundation
of which the most solemn, eternal covenants had
been entered into. Day after day these trials for
unlawful cohabitation are published in full, and
one may have the opportunity of reading and di-
gesting the matter. Still it is difficult to pass
judgment, except one is in possession of the Holy
Spirit that leads into all truth. It is a time for
each one to examine himself and seek to bring in-
to subjection to the will of God his own selfish-
ness, and to so deport himself that respect will be
paid to his example as well as precepts, and those
who are weak may thus be strengthened in the
path of duty and of honor. Every one who stands
true to his convictions, whatever worldly sacrifice
he may be called upon to make, not only does
 honor to the cause, but helps others who may,per-
chance, need some strong pilot to show them how
to save their less steady bark from being wrecked
or broken to pieces on the sharp rocks that often
abound in shallow waters, that deceive those not
accustomed to the dangers and storms and raging
waves of commotion that toss one hither and
thither among the breakers. At such times it is
always a hopeful sign to see one or more keep
right side up and withstand the fury of the gale;
it gives courage to those whose faith might other-
wise have failed. When one sees a companion in
deep water, struggling against the current that
would fain bear him down, rise with an almost
superhuman effort, he feels, he too, could have
power to do the same, whereas he might not have
had the heroism had he not been shown so illus-
trious an example.
	We all, as fellow beings, depend largely upon
each other, but there are few people who are will-
ing, from choice, to risk the first chances of an
extreme measure, that they may be a light and a
strength to those who follow; but these always
do good, if they have the true, genuine mettle in
them, forming brilliant examples, and opening the
way for those who come after them, proving them-
selves fearless to stand and suffer in defense of
truth and right, however unpopular the cause.
	The pioneers in any great cause or discovery of
truth have almost without exception been perse-
cuted, or regarded as lunatics, while, after genera-
tions having realized the benefits of their labors
or discoveries, have held them in the highest es-
teem and reverence, as martyrs to truth and princi-
ple, and benefactors of the human family. Men
have suffered much in the interest of science, as
well as religion, and it would seem rather a scath-
ing aspersion upon the Latter-day Saints if they
are not valiant enough to endure as much for the
Gospel's sake as the Saints of former days and
periods of time. But in order to endure persecu-
tion one's religion must be deeply rooted in the
heart and soul; it must be the guiding star of one's
life, something before which all other considera-
tions vanish away, and for which one would sacri-
fice all else on earth. The Savior said, "He that
loveth father or mother more than me, is not
worthy of me, and he that loveth son or daughter
more than me, is not worthy of me." And again
He says, "And every one that hath forsaken
houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother,
or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake,
shall receive an hundred fold, and shall inherit
everlasting life."
	To all who read the Scriptures, and who believe
in the divine inspiration of the words therein con-
tained, there is an abundance of proof that these
are the days referred to by our Savior previous to
His second coming. In the 21st chapter of Luke,
Jesus, in speaking of the time drawing near, after
speaking of wars and contentions and earthquakes
and famines and pestilences and sights and signs,
etc., etc., says, beginning at the 12th verse, "But
before all these they shall lay their hands on you
and persecute you, delivering you up to the syna-
gogues and into prisons, being brought before

[Column 3]

kings and rulers for my name's sake. And it shall
turn to you for a testimony. Settle it, therefore,
in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye
shall answer, for I will give you a mouth and
wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not gain-
say nor resist. And ye shall be betrayed both by
parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and friends,
and some of you shall they cause to be put to
death."
	A part of this Scripture is most assuredly being
verified at the present time, in the courts of the
Territory, and no doubt all will be fulfilled accord-
ing as it has been declared by ancient and modern
prophets.
	The scenes that are now transpiring are fraught
with the greatest significance to the Latter-day
Saints, and yet there are many who do not seem
to realize the momentous results that must neces-
sarily follow such remarkable events. It is most
certainly a time for serious thought and reflection
and humility before the Lord, and no one can
trust to his own strength, but in all humility look
to the Lord for divine aid and assistance; it be-
hooves every Latter-day Saint by a virtuous life
and conversation to seek to attain unto the bless-
ings promised to the faithful, fulfilling every duty
and obligation, in so far as it is made known by
the spirit of the Gospel that leads into all truth.
It is a time for that entire consecration and devo-
tion to the kingdom of God that will admit of no
neglect, but will require one’s time, talents and
labors exclusive of all other interests. The
Scripture commands us, "Seek ye first the king-
dom of God and His righteousness and all other
things shall be added unto you." But how few
have obeyed this in the spirit in which it was
given. This is verily a time of trial, a time to
prove and test the integrity of men's hearts, and
though the Saints may be called upon to pass
through the deep waters of affliction, there is a
power equal to the emergency, and the promises of
God to those who serve Him and abide in the
faith are sure and steadfast, and the covenant He
has made with His chosen people cannot be
broken. He has commanded His people to obey
the law of celestial marriage,and He will maintain
His word though all the forces of earth and all
the powers of darkness combine against the es-
tablishment of that eternal principle of marriage.
There is much more involved in it than the casual
observer can comprehend, and the purposes of
God cannot be overthrown simply because a body
of men have decided, in grand council assembled,
that the law of the Lord is null and void, and the
law of the land supreme. Far from it! And
hough it may cost the lives of some of the Saints
of God, what He has decreed He will perform,
and His cause will triumph, and those who have
been obedient and kept the commandments He
has given, and have not departed from the law
laid down for the guidance of His people, will re-
joice and be made partakers of the glory and do-
minion promised to the faithful. That this may
be the happy lot of many now passing through the
most severe ordeals, is our earnest prayer.


