EDITORIAL NOTES.

	In this issue of the paper there is an excellent
article on the silk industry,and we trust our sisters
will read and digest it thoroughly. It is a subject
that has engrossed much attention in times past,
and almost untiring efforts have been made by in-
dividuals here and there, and also by societies, to
accomplish some permanent good in this direction.
We have been told by Brigham Young and others
that there is every facility here for making a good
quality of silk. There have been many discourage-
ments and disappointments in the growth and pro-
gress of this enterprise, and yet some good silk
has been made under the most severe difficulties.
There seems now to be an opening by which those
who have cocoons on hand can dispose of them


[Column 1]

﻿to some advantage, and if this is the case, the
people will soon be encouraged in raising cocoons
for the home market. The white silk handker-
chiefs manufactured by Bro. Chalmers, at the Silk
Factory, are very handsome. In each corner 
the pattern of the Salt Lake Temple is woven,
which makes the article still more attractive.
	ON Monday evening, September 28th, a dis-
tinguished party of visitors arrived in this city, on
a short visit, and were the guests of Mrs. Luella
Young. The party consisted of the Hon. James
W. Barclay, M.P., and his accomplished wife,
and Mr. Frank D. Finley, who has for years been 
associated with the London press. Mr. Barclay
is the author of the able article on the "Mormon"
question published in the nineteenth century,
and afterwards put in pamphlet form and widely
circulated among this people, and in other parts
of the world. We had an opportunity of meeting
with the party and conversing with them, and the
pleasure of a trip to the Lake, with quite a party
of ladies and gentlemen, who lunched on board
the General Garfield. On Tuesday evening a few
ladies and gentlemen spent the evening at Mrs.
Young's. The time was occupied in interesting
conversation on the topics of the day, and Mrs.
Barclay, who is a very talented singer and musi-
cian gave us some exquisite Italian music. Miss
Louie Wells and Mr. B. S. Young and Mr. C.
W. Stayner added to the mnsical part of the en-
tertainment of the evening. Some delicious re-
freshments were elegantly served,and the evening
passed off most agreeably.
	THE Primary fair, of the several associations of
Salt Lake County, was held in the Social Hall in
this city the 17th, 18th and 19th of September,
under the supervision of Prest. Ellen C. Clawson
and her Counselors, Camilla Cobb and Lydia Ann
Wells. There was a good showing of the child-
dren's work, and the products of their labors in
the way of vegetables, fruits, butter, and other
articles of this kind, all of good quality. There
seemed to be a great improvement in the quality
of work since the first Fair, and a greater variety
of useful articles. The receipts from the Fair
counted up to nearly a hundred dollars, though
the price of admission was a mere trifle. After
all expenses were paid there was remaining over
$87.50, and the little people were consulted as to
what should be done with the money. All seemed
to think they would like to make a donation to the
Temple, and, accordingly, $50 was reserved for
the Manti Temple, and $37.50 for the Deseret
Hospital. Prest. Clawson and her Counselors
must feel exceedingly gratified with the success of
the enterprise, as well as all those little people
whose labor and means contributed to the success-
ful affair.
	ON Friday, September 15th, we had the pleasure
of accompanying Apostle F. D. Richards and his
wife to North Ogden to attend a meeting of the
Young Ladies' Association at that place. Dr. R.
B. Pratt was also one of the party from this city,
and in Ogden we were joined by Mrs. Hattie
Brown, Counselor to Mrs. Jane S. Richards in the
Relief Society of Weber Stake, and Mrs. Mattie
Cannon and Mrs. Lettie Richards, which made up
a very pleasant party. Arriving at the new meet-
ing house, we were warmly welcomed by the
Bishop and others. The house was well filled,
quite a large number of the congregation being
young girls. Mrs. Ellen Waldrun presided with
ease and dignity over the meeting. After the
usual exercises and reading of minutes, remarks
were made by the President, and the Secretary
read an address which had been prepared for the
occasion in honor of Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who
had, until recently, presided over the Y. L. M. I.
A. of Weber Stake. The address was well
written and contained many expressions of love,
respect and confidence, and was very complimen-
tary indeed of the labors of their former presi-

[Column 2]

dent. After reading the article an elegant photo-
graph album was shown, which was a gift from
the Association to Mrs. E. S. Richards. It con-
tained the pictures of the Bishop and his wife, the
officers of the Association, and some of the mem-
bers. The next part of the programme was a
presentation to the young President, Mrs. Wal-
drun, of an enlarged, handsomely framed photo-
graph of her husband, who is now an a mission to
Germany, accompanied with a very neat
written speech, which was well read by the Secre-
tary, and both these marks of appreciation seemed
to meet with the utmost favor from all the assem-
bly. Apostle Richards made congratulatory
rmarks to the young people,and dwelt specially up-
on the importance of true marriage,and the sacred-
ness of the covenants entered into in such marriage,
and the obligatons it places upon men and women.
He also expressed his appreciation of the honor
conferred upon his daughter-in-law, Mrs. E. S.
Richards, in the beautiful gift bestowed, and the
accompanying written tribute. Mrs. Jane S.
Richards also expressed her good feelings and
kindly sentiments toward the young people, and
made many excellent suggestions to the sisters as-
sembled. Brief addresses were delivered by the
sisters from the city upon education, refinement,
literary progress, etc., and Dr. Pratt gave some
valuable information on the subject of health, and
how to preserve it. Sisters Hattie Brown and
Mattie Cannon each expressed their feelings, and
exhorted the young to persevere. The Bishop
spoke a short time, expressing his interest in the
young people, etc., and Mrs. Waldrun made some
closing remarks, and alluded to the surprise the
young ladies had arranged in giving her the pic-
ture; was very much gratified, and hoped always
to retain their affection. After the meeting was
dismissed, the invited guests, officers of the Re-
lief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. and some of the
members,about fifty,in all,repaired to the Bishop's
and partook of a sumptuous dinner, which had
been prepared for the occasion. In the evening
the young people of the ward were to have a
party in the school house. Altogether the day
was a most enjoyable one, and we returned home
well pleased with the visit to North Ogden. The
young ladies seemed to be making good progress
in the right direction, and to enjoy a goodly por-
tion of the Spirit of the Lord.


