GIRLS, DON'T MISTAKE BRASS FOR
GOLD.

	The bestowal of the affections of a woman
is a strange subject, perhaps, to dilate upon,
but one which, in my estimation, should be
dwelt upon and discussed far more than it has
hitherto been, for by the bestowal may come
joy and happiness, or woe and heartache.
	Who would wish for shadow when they could
have sunshine? Who would wish for hell
when they could gain heaven? Methinks I
can answer for all—not one. Then why should
we not be more wise and discreet in the choice
of a husband, when, by the selection, may
come life-long sorrow, tears, and wishes for an
early grave.
	How often some of us are fascinated by the
bland, wicked smile of one of the opposite
sex, and fall a victim to the snarer. Such is
the case many times with a young, thoughtless
girl, and often those more mature are thus in-
fluenced. How many rush headlong into
wedded life,never pausing to think,or to realize
the importance of the step they are about to
take; some, perhaps,with a very short acquaint-
ance. But alas! they awaken to a realization
of the extent of their folly all too late; they
know nothing of one another’s tastes and
habits, therefore they are not very likely to
agree; one quarrel brings on another, until a
final separation ensues, or they drag out a life
of misery and despair together; this is most in-
variably the case with too hasty courtships and
marriages.
	Oft times one fancies herself in love with a
gentleman whose main forte, in making him-
self agreeable, are his expressive looks, wit and
nonchalant manner. They wed; he, of course,
soon tires of always showing this part of his
character; he then becomes surly and quiet,
and she finds to her sorrow that all that attract-
ed her, or caused her to imagine herself in love,
has flown. She has found out the truth of the
maxim, "All that glitters is not gold," too
late.
	Then we should be careful not to mistake
brass for gold, dross for silver—to be sure that
we have the real, genuine metal; then we are
more confident of happiness.
	Sitting by my open window, this afternoon,
busily employed with writing material, two
pictures are visible to my mind's eye, which I
shall try to describe.

