"MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS."

	Yes, Mr. Hendricks spoke as follows: "Fel-
low citizens!" We, the Latter-day Saints,
away out in Utah, are fellow citizens, and
claim every right pertaining thereto. Our
rights are assailed and we are meddled with by
United States officials, who are sent here to
mind our affairs, when we know how to govern
them ourselves much better, and have not cost
Government half so much as uninterested
officials, sent here to feather their own nests
and deprive the people of every vestige of
right guaranteed to American citizens. We
recognize the right and power of the general
government, but when it affects you and me
and the people of Utah, then it is that Utah
makes her own laws and votes in her own
officers by the voice of her own subjects, born
on her own soil, or are permanent residents;
those who are honorable, self-sustaining men,
who have built up Utah, by cultivating the
soil, who have taken an interest for the people,
made good and wholesome laws for the estab-

[Column 2]

lishment of virtue, peace and good, moral con-
duct, and order and thrift of her people.
	We claim the right to make our own laws,
simply because we can regulate our own affairs
better than any one else can regulate them for
us; and so we, on our own soil, for that simple
reason, must be legislatures for Utah. "That
was the great argument first asserted in this
country. One hundred years has established
the fact that self-government, with respect to
local affiars, is the true system of government
in this world."
	No trouble can arise but what our own legis-
lators can regulate, in all matters of home
affairs. So, we must have local self-govern-
ment. What citizen, among any other people,
of a free mind, would like to be dragged from
a home fireside into a distant state and be im-
mured in a prison for months, to await what?
An inquisition. In our boasted land of liberty
—"America—not Ireland,not England,no; but
the home of the brave and the land of the
free." You may hunt the wide world over, and
I defy any one to find better men and women
than have been taken from their homes and
friends, deprived of their usefulness in the
public good, and their wives and children de-
prived of their support, to gratify lawless in-
truders, forced on a happy and thriving com-
munity to fill the idler's coffers out of the
hard earned real estates of its own native born
citizens. Is not America indebted to the
Latter-day Saints for Utah's resources? Was
it not settled up by them under the most try-
ing circumstances? We need not go to Irish
history to find a persecuted people. No, not
beyond our own country's limits. Here has
been enacted the most unjust and stringent
measures against an innocent and unoffending
people. In plain contradiction to our coun-
try's laws and Constitution, which gives liberty
of religious belief and conscience, can an ac-
tive mind be eternally ladened with supersti-
tious fogyism? Why is it that America's
rulers are so far seeing as to sympathize with
Ireland and sending men away out to Utah
with a legislator's lash to thrash her own sub-
jects? "Well," say they, "Utah is a Territory,
and they have no rights in common with us."
Indiana is a state. Yes, and cannot Utah be-
come one? Are not her numbers sufficient? Are
fifteen thousand people not to be trusted with
the reins of government? Who, in Indiana,
would trust to any other state in legislation for
her schools, in the building up of her indus-
tries? So according to the majority in Utah.
When persecution ceases with us to exist, not
only the agricultural classes, but the the me-
chanics, the people of the cities and towns
must live, and Utah becomes clothed with the
right and power of self-government, these
matters will be cared for. That is a doctrine
so plainly expressed and so powerful in its ap-
plication to human interests, that it will never
stop; it will go on.
	For many years it has not been a contro-
verted question that the Latter-day Saints
have been dealt hardly by. It is widely known
that they have not had fair play. How is it
that American citizens were driven by a law-
less mob into these wild, unknown regions,
uninhabited by the white race? Thought unfer-
tile and barren—made by this people to blos-
som as the rose, redeemed by them from its
sterile condition by hard industry in the midst
of poverty, being deprived of their mother
land, the homes of their birth, and thrust out
beyond their land of freedom into a desert
waste. Have the Irish people been served
thus? No; they could stay at home, but we
could not. Missiles of war were used—pointed
at men, women and children, and they were
driven over the Mississippi River in the month
of February, to freeze and starve.
	And now our good, kind followers say,
'Give yourselves up; oh, do! that we may

[Column 3]

have no further trouble on your account, and
our deputy marshals can be paid and so can
we, and live on your exit." No, never! we are
not all fools.
	"Let us come back to the great question
which lies at the foundation of government,
the question of the rights of the people to
make their own laws, and that no other power
has a right to make laws for them. You re-
member, in the Declaration of Independence,
we asserted the right of men to govern them-
selves. That is the great fundamental idea of
America, and is now the one being applied, to
which we give our sympathy and support,
The right of man to govern himself and to
abolish laws that are inimical to his welfare is
the principle that was asserted at Bunker Hill,
and in glorious triumph it was proclaimed at
Yorktown." (Great applause.)
		MARY ANN MERRILL PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Sep. 17th, 1885.


