A PLEASANT UNION.

	On Thursday, September 24th, the Relief
Society of the Eighth Ward in this city had a
pleasant re-union. Preparations were made
beforehand, by appointing committees to per-
fect the arrangements. Three, committee of
arrangements, three on reception, and eight on
vitation.
	The meeting was held in the Assembly
Rooms of the ward, commencing at 2 o'clock
p.m. Mrs. Esther B. Fletcher presiding

[Column 2]

Among those invited were the leading brethren
of the ward, and quite a number of sisters
from other parts of the city. After singing,
prayer was offered by Coun. McMurrain; then
singing.
	Prest. Fletcher made a few opening remarks,
referring to the trouble and difficulties of the
present day; the need of faith and union.
	Sister Phebe W. Woodruff thought these
were trying times, but after a time these
troublee would disperse and leave us peaceful
and quiet, if we would only be firm and hold
on to the iron rod.
	Sister Elizabeth Howard said this was a sad
re-union, in consequence of the trials through
which we were passing; "but yet, these days
are glorious; the prophecies are being fulfilled,
and we know that whatever comes, we are sure
to conquer." Thought we should exercise our
faith, and offer up prayers for those who are in
bonds and in prison, and for all, that they may
stand firm to their integrity whatever may
come, etc.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the educational
advantages we enjoy through the organizations;
the strength it gives to our faith; of the pro-
gress which had been made by the faithful
sisters; of the bountiful harvest, and the great
plenty the Saints enjoyed; of the exit from Nau-
voo, and the experiences of Winter Quarters,
etc.
	Sister E. S. Taylor alluded, in her remarks,
to the trials the sisters had gone through, and
the noble sacrifices they had willingly made
for principle, and spoke of the women of Zion
as the very best upon the face of the earth.
Spoke of the trials the brethren are now called
to pass through, and the opportunity of test-
ing their integrity.
	Sister B. W. Smith said it seemed very hard
for our brethren to have to go to prison, "but
it is not so bad as it was in times past, when
they had to leave their families destitute. Re-
ferred to incidents of her own experience in
the early days of the church; the times of
mobbings in Missouri, and contrasted it with
our condition now, etc.
	Sister M. I. Horne spoke of punctuality,
and of humility,and keeping the Sabbath Day
holy. Said the Lord always warned the peo-
ple,through His servants, of any judgments
that were coming upon them, and illustrated
her remarks by Scriptural quotations, and the
relating of instances when God had made
special announcements, and had given the peo-
ple an opportunity of escape by listening to
the voice of His servants. Exhorted the sis-
ters to faithfulness and diligence in prayer and
good works.
	Coun. McMurrain occupied a short time;
spoke of the crusade and its object, and ex-
pressed his good feelings toward the Relief So-
ciety, and his determination to prove true to
his integrity in keeping the commandments of
God. Referred to Prest. Heber C. Kimball's
saying we would all have trials enough, as
many as we are able to stand. Felt that he
had not had many as yet, but hoped to have
faith and courage when most needed and "hold
on to the iron rod," and all would be well.
Said many other good things.
	Bro. A. Smith hoped he would be able to
stand firm and faithful whatever he might be
called upon to endure; rejoiced in the Gospel,
and in the association of the noble men and
women who were laboring in the interests of
the kingdom of God. Thought the Lord was
determined to have a tried and proven people.
His remarks, throughout, were very interest-
ing.
	Coun. Brockbank realized this was an im-
portant time in which we were living. "Many
families are being tried; the Lord has said he
is displeased with none who are willing to be
tried for His sake and acknowledge His hand."
Felt in sympathy with the Saints of God, etc.

[Column 3]

	Coun. Jane Cowan expressed herself as grati-
fied with all that had been said, and thanked
all those who had assisted towards preparing
and arranging for the re-union, as also the
brethren and sisters,who were the invited guests,
for responding to the invitation, and those
who had spoken for their good counsel and
words of comfort and encouragement.
	Elder Royal B. Young said, among many
other good things, that he hoped to remain on
the deck of the good old ship Zion whatever
storms might arise. Thought there were a
great many things worse than dying for our
religion. Prayed that God would increase our
faith and firmness, and if we were united all
would be well, and we would be able to con-
quer, for the promises of the Lord could not
fail.
	Bro. John Conelly made some very interest-
ing remarks. The choir sang, "Hark, listen
to the trumpeters," etc. Benediction by Elder
Royal Barney.
	After the close of the meeting, a sumptuous
repast was partaken of, tables having been set
in the hall, and beautifully ornamented with
flowers of the choicest varieties—the gift of
Bro. Samuel Teasdel. After supper there was
music and songs by the young ladies, and, we
must not forget to mention the charming young
girls in white aprons, who waited upon the
tables with such grace and dignity. All was
arranged in perfect order, and every one
seemed to realize that the spirit of the Lord
brooded over the assembly.


