IN MEMORIAM.

  DIED, at her residence, in the 18th Ward, in Salt Lake,
Sunday, September 13, at half past one o'clock, Mrs.
Mary Sloan, widow of the late E. L. Sloan, well known
here as an editor and journalist. Mrs. Sloan had been
ailing since last fall, yet, although so long afflicted, her
death was very sudden and unexpected. Deceased was
born in Crawfords-burn, County Down, Ireland, July
3rd, 1835. She was married to Edward L. Sloan when
seventeen years of age, and has been the mother of eleven
children. Eight of the number having gone before her to
join the innumerable hosts behind the vail, three are now
left to mourn the loss of one of the kindest and most in-
dulgent mothers that ever lived. Robert W., her eldest
son, is now on a mission to Ireland, where her aged
father is still living. Maggie, the only surviving daughter,
and Edward L., a younger son, are the two left at home,
and to them the loss is heavy indeed, as well as to the one
who is absent, but the Lord can and will comfort them, if
they go to him for consolation.
  Mrs. Sloan was one of those quiet, good-natured, un-
pretending women, who live in the hearts of their friends,
and are best known for their good and kindly deeds in
their own neighborhoods. She was generous and noble
in principle, affectionate and charitable in feeling, and was
always found doing good to those who stood in need of
sympathy or comfort--tender and delicate in her way of
ministering to those in need.
  The funeral services were held at the Eighteenth Ward
Chapel, Bishop O. F. Whitney conducting the services.
The speakers were her particular friends--Hon. John T.
Caine, Elder McGhee, the Bishop and Counselor Robert
Patrick, who all had words of praise, and spoke of her with
respect and affection. The singing by the ward choir was
ver good, especially when they rendered the sublime
hymn, "Nearer, my God, to Thee," etc. The benediction
was pronounced by Elder John Nicholson.
  It seemed to us quite appropriate, in connection with
this death, to publish the beautiful poem "At Rest,"
composed by her son since he left home, while walking in
one of those old graveyards in his mother's native land.


