SECOND PICTURE.
	Listen, while I disclose to you this beautiful
picture. 
	In the parlor of an aristrocatic mansion, a
slim, graceful figure, elegantly attired, pacing
to and fro as if in thought; finally she com-
munes to herself aloud. "Alas! the time has
come when I must make a decision between
these two gentlemen. One rich, witty, dashing
in manners, and, I believe, warm-hearted; but
the question is, would this last always? If not,
what would there be to attract or draw my at-
tention afterward? I do not think he is often
serious. I must choose wisely, for the happi-
ness of my life is at stake; I must not imagine
I love unless I do."
	"This other gentleman, although not wealthy,
when in his society, he seems towering to
heights far above me, in intellect, and—(and a
delicate blush mantles her cheek)—I think I
could easily learn to love him, and I should be
sure of happiness, as he is so intelligent and
refined."
	There is a determination in those soft blue
eyes, as this part of the vision slowly fades
away.
	Again I see her. She is on a lawn in front
of her residence, racing and romping with
three beautiful children, who are laughing and
crowing in childish glee; but who comes silent-
ly and unperceived on the background? It is
a man of noble, commanding presence. His
arms are folded across his chest, a smile hovers
around that stern mouth, as, unseen, he watches
the happy group, and a fond look steals into
those keen, dark eyes. Finally he advances
toward them; they perceive him and rush for-
ward, and each in turn receives a fond caress.
Surely she has not mistaken brass for gold.
No. I will draw back unpreceived and leave
them to their happiness.


These two scenes have convinced me that in-
telligence and nobility of character will surely
beget true love. Our religion teaches us to
keep ourselves pure, holy and truthful; to re-
gard the marriage vow as something too sacred
to be trifled with. And then again, when we
think of the great privileges we have of marry-
ing for time and eternity, it behooves each
party to think long and well before taking that
all-important step. We should make the
choice of a husband a matter of prayer,
		IDA.


