FIRST PICTURE.
	I see a beautiful girl sitting alone in her
boudoir. She is about to write, for she has
two letters before her; two proposals of mar-
riage. She seems in a dilemma which to ac-
cept. Hush! These words escape her lips:
"Which shall it be? Both rich and handsome,
and one so witty and gay, that I am always so
pleased when in his society; the other, while
wealthy, is so quiet and dignified, I am quite
sure I would be miserable with him, or I
should be afraid of him, and I think I love the
other best."
	The beautiful head bends lower over her
writing; she pens the word that silently seals
her fate. In one brief moment she has marred
the happiness of her whole life-time. She has
unconsciously mistaken brass for gold.
	I look a little ahead, perhaps two or three
years; I see that same beautiful being, but
alas! not that same bright, happy face; there is
a hapless look in those dark, mournful eyes, as

[Column 2]

she stands on the open verandah, awaiting her
husband's return home. Ah! he comes; does
she spring forward to meet him as of yore?
Oh, no! If she had, think you those arms
would have opened to receive her in a warm
embrace? To all appearance they would not.
A cool "Good evening," is his greeting. They
pass into the sitting room, where all betokens
luxury. A servant enters and announces tea.
They enter the dining room. While seated
there only now and then an occasional word
passed from either of them. After their even-
ing meal, they pass back to the sitting room;
she to while away her time with some fancy
work, which I see in her listless fingers, he to
don slippers, and to throw himself down on a
low sofa with a novel in his hand, and soon
reads himself to sleep; while his wife—the
work has fallen from her hands, and her eyes
are closed in thought; not in slumber, but in
thought; nor do I think they can be very pleas-
ant reflections, by the painful shadow that now
and then creeps over her face, and by the way
those small white hands are clenched, as they
are interlocked in one another. A tear steals
silently down her cheek. She hastily wipes
all traces of it away, and softly walks to where
her sleeping husband lies. She bends over
him with a woe-begone look her face, and
words escape her lips. I plead guilty of
eaves-dropping, and bend nearer to listen: "So
unlike what he was before we were wed; then
he was always so witty, gay and kind; then I
was happy; but it did not, could not last." A
sob escapes her lips, as she turns and silently
leaves theroom.

