KEEPING.

	A great deal is said now-a-days in favor of 
good housekeeping. Much of it is well said.
But one essential to good housekeeping is never
mentioned. It is never said that the "wives of
well-to-do men should not be made paupers."
Yet this is really the word that most needs to
be said.
	The great majority of wives who devote
themselves to their families are as destitute of
money as the poorest pauper. This is not al-
ways so because the husband is niggardly.
More often, perhaps, it is from thoughtlessness.
For instance, one wife, before her first child
was born, was offered no money for its little
wardrobe. She could not ask for any. She
cut up her own fine garments to make a supply.
She did the same for the second. Before the
birth of the third child, she said to her hus-
band, "I have no money. I have cut up all
my clothes that were suitable, for the other
children. How am I to dress this one?" The
surprised husband said: "Why did you not
tell me you needed money?" It had never
occurred to him to offer any. He was a farmer,
whose wife, without help, cooked for the family
and for the hired men. She made butter and
cheese, and did the family sewing. All her
time was consumed in her housework and the
care of her children. Before her marriage
she had a remunerative business. She had the
means of gratifying her tastes, her wishes and
her feelings. How it must have taken out of
her, courage and heart, to find toil, day after
day, neither lightened nor brightened by the
hope of even small means with which to do
as she pleased! This man and woman repre-
sent a large class.
	But, whatever the class, the custom prevails
of leaving the wife without money, and this is
as common among the rich and well-to-do as
anywhere.
	Now, it is easy to see that a pauperized wife
is not in the best position for good home-mak-
ing or good housekeeping, to say nothing of
anything else. The first and last word of
those who really desire to improve the home
should be one to improve the condition of the
home-maker, in the special direction of reliev-
ing her from a penniless state. Much has
been said and written in favor of good house-
keeping. Now let us hear something of the
way to help wives to such a share of the family
income, be it little or much, as shall save them
from the sense of being either beggars or pau-
pers. This is one essential requisite to secure
good housekeeping.	L. S.


"Lady Tennyson is in a state of ill health
that causes her friends great anxiety."
	Mrs. Helen Jackson left several unpublished
manuscripts. Her last work was a story of
humble life in the West, entitled "Zeph." It
was finished during her fatal illness, and is
now, with other manuscripts, in the hands of
her publishers, Messrs. Roberts Brothers. A
new edition of the "Century of Dishonor,"
carefully revised, and with additional matter
is soon to be published by Roberts Brothers.
Mrs. Jackson's latest poem, "A Rose Leaf,"
will be published, with illustrations, in Outing
for October. Of this poem, Mrs. Jackson
wrote to the editor that she actually dreamed
it, and awoke with it on her lips.—Ex.


