CORRESPONDENCE.

	Pittsburg, Pa., September 13th, 1885.
Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	Dear Sister—It is with feelings of pleasure
that I write to you once, more. It always
affords me joy to commune with those who
have obeyed the Gospel in its fulness, and
have been partakers of that Holy Spirit which
flows on those who strive to live by its teach-
ings; those only can realize the same who are
in possession of the same, and when I address
a few lines to those who are in connection
with this Church, it seems to me like writing
home, for my heart and feelings are with them;
and when I read that worthy paper, the EX-
PONENT, and read the pieces therein from the
sisters, and the progress they are making, I
many times ask God to bless them. I feel re-
freshed and strengthened in reading those
noble communications contained there. I
have learned many ideas on the principles of
this Church from that source.
	With being so long absent from the Saints,
having no one to ask questions of, and some
principles which had not been explained to
me while associated with them, I am proud to
state I have had explanations of doctrine from
the sisters of this Church. I must in justice
make honorable mention of one to whom I
owe a debt of gratitude—Sister Helen Mar
Whitney. From her pen I received light and
instruction, which, for many years, was in
ignorance of, and for which I have been seek-
ing, and, on arriving at a knowledge of
what I had been seeking, I could not tell my
feelings; and when I read the reports of the
meetings, and the remarks made there, with
the prospects for the future, I do pray many
times for the privilege to be there and hear the
same. Many times, when alone, meditating on
your position at those happy seasons, I ask my-
self the question, “Will it ever be my happy
lot to mingle with the Saints of God once
more?” It almost seems a lifetime since I en-
joyed that happy privilege, but my heart is
with you, your feelings and hopes are mine, and
at different times, when meditating on this
work and its benign principles, when the paper
comes and I read, I find the same feelings and


words used that I had presented to me in
meditation. It makes me feel well to realize
there are some who have the same hope and
feelings I have.
  I am living my religion all I can.  I want
to do what my Father tells me to do; I want
to be one of His good sons.  I am very thank-
ful for his loving kindness to me of late.  I
want to come home, for I have something to
attend to as yet in the holy house of the Lord,
which was predicted on my head at confirma-
tion, and I shall come to see you in Zion the
first chance; I shall not wait for a second one.
My prayers are all the time for the faithful.
  I will here state that some time back I felt
in trouble for you.  My paper failed to come,
I wondered what was wrong.  I thought the
skull dragons were giving you some trouble.  I
prayed for God to help you and give you His
Holy Spirit to enable you to stand the trials,
if any had come to you, but I learned that you
were still going ahead, as usual, in your good
work; and may God bless the worthy sisters
who are laboring in this heavenly work, is my
humble prayer.	H. M. W.


