EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The word of wisdom, which has been given by
the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith to
His Saints in this dispensation, is full of correct
information upon those things which are condu-
cive to health and of promised blessings to those
who observe and keep it according to the spirit
and meaning thereof. Among other things in it
He has said, "And again, strong drinks are not
for the belly, but for the washing of your 
bodies."
	The Lord considered this all that was necessary


to say upon this subject. It would be sufficient if
the Saints would remember to take His word as it
is given, and act upon it. I find but few who ob-
serve this portion of the word of wisdom, although
many may strictly keep other parts of it, and ex-
pect to receive the promised blessings comtained
therein. They, no doubt, frequently wash their
bodies all over with water, but the Lord does not
say that it is good to do so, but He has said in
another revelation, "Behold, the Lord in the be-
ginning, blessed the waters, but in the last days,
by the mouth of my servant John, I cursed the
waters."
	It is a scientific fact, which is fully sustained by
experience, that there are properties in alcoholic
liquors which are invigorating to the skin, and
which will open the pores and leave them in a
healthy condition, enabling them to more readily
perform the functions of their offices, thereby im-
parting health and strength to the whole sys-
tem.
	My main object in writing upon this subject is
to call the attention of mothers and nurses to it,
who may have charge of infants from their birth
to childhood, and who generally wash them all
over once or twice a day, which greatly reduces
their vitality, and nearly washes the very life out
of them, at which time they are more injured than
in after years, urge upon them the importance
of giving heed to what the Lord has said, and use
"strong drinks" for the washing of their children.
For instance, about one part of good alcohol to
two parts of water, or any other liquors in proper
proportions, and wash them in it as often as it
may be necessary. Such children, in after years,
would feel to bless them for the health and strength
they would enjoy.
	A New England man, who lived to be quite old,
and who still retained the health and vigor of
manhood, when asked what he attributed his
longevity to, answered by saying, "I have fed the
outside of the body with brandy and the inside
with olive oil.',
	I will only say further, to one and all, especially
to mothers, "Take the word of the Lord as He
has given it, and act upon it without stopping to
consult any one about whether it is good or not,
and use that which He says is good, and the bless-
ings of God will be with you and your generations
after you."		S. F. A.
	Kamas, Summit Co., September 24, 1885.


