[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: R. S. REPORTS. | Author: MARY E. HALLADAY,]

		R. S. REPORTS.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Maricopa Stake was held in R. S. Hall,
Mesa, March 1, 1906, President Me-
lissa Hunsaker presiding. Opened by the
usual exercises.
	Prest. Hunsaker made opening remarks,
felt pleased to see such a good attend-
ance.
	Reports were given from Mesa, Alma
and Pine wards. Much charity in dona-
tions, helping the poor, the sick, and those
who need comfort and consolation were
given in the last quarter. Mothers’ work;
Doctrine and Covenants lectures were
given in each testimony meeting; teach-
ers were punctual as a rule. The holding
of officers’ meetings had met with approv-
al; good instructions were given. The
Relief Society sisters were likened as
minute men to be ready aud willing when
duty calls. This organization was given
through revelation to the Prophet Joseph
Smith, this being the first organization
for women. They were to be minister-
ing angels to the poor, the sick and those
who were bowed down with grief, and in
preparing our loved ones for burial.
	Timely instructions were given by the
R.S. presidency and other sister speakers.
We should be careful not to speak slight-
ingly of another’s character, but have
charity for one another. That we should
be as wise as serpents and as harmless as
doves. The watchcare of our youth should
be considered.
	Closed by singing “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.” Benediction by
Counselor Isaac Dana.
			A. E. FULLER, Secretary.
		TOOELE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Toele Stake Relief So-
ciety Conference, held in Tooele City,
May 17, 1906. President Alice R.
Woolley presiding; present, President
Alice R. Wooley, Sisters Rose Hammond
Maggie Anderson, Bryan Nelson, and
Mary E. Halladay. Conference opened
with the usual exercises. President Alice
R. Woolley addressed the sisters; said
how sorry she was that our missionary
sisters were not present, she felt they
must have missed the train. She knew the
Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired when
he organized the Relief Society. The
sisters should study the Gospel. The
sisters do not aspire to be preachers but
they should be workers; we were sur-
rounded by the blessings and comforts of
life. Not one soul that belonged to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints was destroyed in the San Francisco
disaster.
	Sister McBride reported the Tooele
Ward. Ten or fifteen new members had
joined the society; they had over 500
bushels of grain, and were going to build
a new granary. The teachers do good
work, they took for their subject, “Do-
mestic Science at Home,” in mother’s
work.

[Column 2]
	Sister Rose Hammond reported Grants-
ville; they had been blessed with means
to help the sick and poor; referred to the
sadness of Sister Tilly Johnson’s death,
they have about 600 bushels of wheat.
	Sister Shields reported Lake View.
They had enrolled most of the married
women in the ward, have 160 bushels of
wheat in the granary and quilts and ma-
terial to work with.
	Sister Louie Lee reported Mercur; they
help the poor, have plenty to work with.
Sisters Richards, Vowels and Lindburg,
rendered a musical selection.
	Sister Bryan spoke on the R. S. work;
said it was a rest to go to meeting. If
we do our duty we have no time to be-
long to any society outside of the Church.
We should not find fault with each other
we are all God’s children.
	Sister Nelson said we should meet to-
gether with pure hearts. Prayer makes
us acquainted with our Heavenly Father.
Our meetings are food for our bodies and
rest for our souls.
	Sister Maggie Anderson: “The Lord
will bless those who do the best they can
in his work. We should encourage the
presence of our guardian angels to guide
us aright. Sister Woolley said she had
heard from the sisters that were to have
attended the conference today, they had
missed the train. Conference then ad-
journed to meet at 2 p. m., after singing
and benediction.
	AFTERNOON MEETING.
	Sister Alice R. Woolley presiding;
singing, prayer, and so forth. Sister Al-
strom reported the St. John society; said
they were united in their work.
	Sister Drouby reported Batesville.
	Sister Mary A. Atkins said it was pleas-
ant to meet with so many sisters; the
Lord would answer prayer if asked in the
right spirit. The sisters have a great res-
ponsibility on their shoulders. Sister
Bowen said she would rather listen than
speak. Prayed that no accident might
happen those that had come from a dis-
tance in returning home. Sister Lee said
it was a great pleasure to meet at Con-
ference, and a benefit to belong to the
Relief Society.
	Sister Naomi Gillette said we came
here for rest both bodily and spiritually.
We shall be judged by our Heavenly
Father and not by each other.
	Sister Drouby then sang a solo entitled
“The Garden of Eden.” Sister Spend-
love said her mother heard the Prophet
Joseph Smith speak and he spoke with
terrible power.
	A recitation was then given by Sister
Jones of Mercur, President Alice R.
Woolley then presented the names of the
General Board and the Stake Board and
they were unanimously sustained. Sister
Woolley said she was gratified with the
interest exhibited in the Relief Society
work, aad the great amount of work that
was being done. Knew that all the sis-
ters were not converted to the Relief

[Column 3]
Society work, we should act as mission
aries, She also spoke on the mother’s
work, and the blessings of motherhood.
We will be tested and tried; we should
be careful about speaking against the
authorities of the Church; we should
have the confidence of our children. In
unity there is strength.
	Singing, and after the benediction con-
ference closed until Oct. 11, 1906.
			MARY E. HALLADAY,
						Secretary.


[Column 1]
