[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Barnett]
[Work Meeting — Setting Goals in Homemaking Vesta Barnett]
organized  mission.  .  .  .  There  are  at  present  twenty-seven  elders  and  three  sisters  laboring 
on  the  islands  of  Samoa.  ...  I  ha\e  had  a  class  in  sewing  and  crochet  work,  they  (the 
sisters  of  the  islands)   pick  it  up  very  readily.  .  .  . 
— Severne  Snow  Witbeck 
Page  508

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
lyrRS.  LILLIAN  E.  RIGGS,  in  her 
se\enties  and  a  widow  for 
eight  years,  is  owner  of  the  7,000 
acres  of  Faraway  Ranch,  in  the  old 
Apache  country  of  Arizona,  border- 
ing on  Mexico.  For  sixteen  years 
she  has  been  totahy  bhnd.  Yet,  in- 
stead of  turning  over  the  manage- 
ment of  her  ranch  to  others,  she 
has  continued  it  herself,  using  a  well- 
trained  horse  as  her  "seeing  eye" 
animal  and  asking  many  questions 
of  her  sighted  assistants,  in  order  to 
make  her  important  decisions.  She 
often  knows  the  exact  spot  where 
she  is  on  the  ranch  by  the  feeling 
that  comes  to  her.  She  cooks  and 
does  housework,  especially  when  she 
has  a  houseful  of  guests  and  board- 
ers. 
]yfRS.  BILLIE  RUPLE  UNTER- 
MANN,  a  geologist  of  Vernal, 
Utah,  was  recently  featured  in  an 
article  appearing  in  Geotinies,  a 
national  scientific  publication.  Mrs. 
Untermann  received  her  M.A.  de- 
gree in  geology  at  the  University  of 
California,  and  was  curator  of  the 
geology  museum  there  for  five  years. 
With  her  husband,  Dr.  Ernest 
Untermann,  who  is  director  of  the 
Utah  Field  House  of  Natural  His- 
tory at  Vernal,  Mrs.  Untermann  has 
made  a  special  study  of  Dinosaur 
National  Monument  and  has  been 
co-author  of  several  scientific  papers 
on  this  region,  which  was  her  child- 
hood home. 
jyrRS.  AMINA  EL-SAID  is  an 
Egyptian  journalist  and  editor 
of  Eve,  a  magazine  with  a  circula- 
tion of  100,000.  She  also  broadcasts 
over  the  radio  and  writes  a  column 
called  "Ask  Me"  for  AI  Mossavvar, 
a  political  and  social  weekly  dealing 
with  contemporary  problems  of  in- 
ternational scope.  Married  to  a 
science  educator  at  Cairo  University, 
Mrs.  Said  is  the  mother  of  two  sons 
and  a  daughter. 
jyjRS.  GLADYS  MICKELS,  who 
has  been  a  Morse  Code  tele- 
graph operator  for  more  than  forty 
years,  recently  retired.  One  of  the 
few  remaining  women  in  this  pro- 
fession, Mrs.  Mickels'  career  began 
in  Bancroft,  Idaho.  One  of  the  first 
messages  she  received  was  "The 
Armistice  has  been  declared  —  No- 
vember 11,  1918." 
"M-ELL  MURBARGER,  a  contrib- 
utor to  The  Relief  Society  Mag- 
azine, whose  home  is  in  Costa  Mesa, 
California,  has  recently  published  a 
new  book  Sovereigns  oi  the  Sage, 
which  relates  the  fascinating  life 
stories  of  miners,  ranchers,  hermits, 
and  philosophers  of  the  Southwest. 
Well  known  as  "The  Roving  Re- 
porter of  the  Southwest,"  Mrs.  Mur- 
barger  in  a  previous  book,  Ghosts  oi 
the  Glorv  Trail,  related  the  historv 
of  to\\'ns  and  cities  which  are  now 
only  ruins  in  the  desert  country. 
Page  509
