[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
Kimball, of the Council of the Twelve, the Mexican Mission was divided and the Northern Mexican Mission was formed. The new mission embraced the towns and cities of Mexico lying north of an imaginary line, drawn from near the town of 'epic on the west coast, directly eastward to the Gulf of Mexico. In this territory it was estimated that there were 3,009 members of the Church, located in thirty branches. Elder Joseph Taylor Bentley was chosen as the first president of the Northern Mexican Mission, with Eliseo 'Trevino as his first and Von Lloyd Sorenson as his second counselor. Robert Grant 'Taylor was named as the mission secretary. Approximately seventy missionaries who had formerly labored in the Mexican Mission were transferred to the Northern Mexican Mission. The headquarters of the new mission was established at Monterrey, and a suitable mission home was acquired in that ctiy. A very successful youth conference was held in Monterrey, during the last week of July 1957. Approximately 250 youthful members of the Church attended and took part in this delightful event. I iS NRO ROR OEE yoyo ck ppp eee Ra ee RESO OR RR R ERRE STORETinate atiaaaaternemenenters eaeses inh asyanncahcascainaaaae canes Nareetiagh submitted by Rhoda C. Taylor DETALLES DEL TROPICO, TAMPICO, MEXICO Page 500 THE NORTHERN MEXICAN MISSION 501 Photograph by Rhoda C. Taylor PLAZA IN SAN LUIS POTOSI IN NORTHERN MEXICO President Bentley served as president of the Northern Mexican Mission until December 1957, when he was called by the First Presidency to serve as an assistant to President Ernest L. Wilkinson at the Brigham Young University. He was succeeded by Harvey H. 'Taylor of Dublan, Mexico. Counselors to President 'Taylor were Hector 'Trevino and Jerry K. Clayton, with Kenneth May as the mission secretary. In a tragic automobile accident, which took place near Mexico City on May 18, 1958, President Claudious Bowman of the Mexican Mission was killed. Shortly thereafter President Harvey H. 'Taylor of the Northern Mexican Mission was called to take President Bowman's place. It was then announced that Israel Ivins Bentley had been appointed president of the Northern Mexican Mission. On March 31, 1958, there were 4,060 members of the Church in this mission, located in forty-three branches. Thirty-seven Relief Society organizations, with 697 members, were reported by Kathleen Bentley in December 1957. Following Sister Bentley, Rhoda C. Taylor presided over the Northern Mexican Relief Society for a short time. Anna Walser Bentley is the recently appointed Relief Society president. Note: 'The Cover for this Magazine "Vista of Monterrey, Northern Mexico," was submitted by Rhoda C. Taylor. See also "Recipes From the Northern Mexican Mission," by Sister Taylor, page 514. &veryday Life in Colonial Tlew &ngland (1620-1781 ) PART 1. Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society Illustrations by Virginia Sargent What do you see, William Bradford, Looking landward, looking seaward, From the dunes? ROM the beachhead of Plymouth Bay, William Bradford could see a _ wilderness of ocean, three months wide, between him and a religiously turbulent motherland; looking landward, beyond the sand dunes, lay a wilderness of trees, silent and unexplored. He could not foresee the miracle of dominion over resources of land, of sea, and of air that would eventually transform such wilderness into urban America. What he and _ his companion Separatists of 1620 did envision, was a community of saints living according to the Bible's word. The story of colonization is the story of the flexible, the resourceful, the willing, and courageous. Such were these strangers to New England shores who left so deep an imprint on what we call the American way of life. We know some of them intimately through their own words —a valuable legacy of letters, diaries, sermons, poetry, and historical journals. Although our Pilgrim-Puritan ancestors did not create a great body of distinctive art or sculpture or music, they were literature and history conscious, and they did create a large body of literature. From these writings we can, with reasonable accuracy, visualize the everyday Page 502 ways of early New England. But we must keep in mind when speaking of colonial living that great progress took place in every aspect of life, between the settlement of Plymouth and the close of the Revolutionary War—from wooden mug to silver chalice; from village cooper to skilled cabinetmaker; from bark-covered hut to the colonial brick dwelling with its imported or locally made beautifully designed furniture. 'There were also daifferences in the various areas of New England during the colonial period. Conditions in the Massachusetts Bay Colony were somewhat different from those of the Rhode Island and Connecticut settlements, and life in the Pilgrim colony of Plymouth varied in several respects from that of Puritan Boston (before they were united in 1692), although less than fifty miles separated them. Therefore, in any attempt briefly to reconstruct this period, many omissions must consciously be made and°many interesting exceptions be lost in generalization.