[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
literature. Keeping a daily journal, until our own century a practice. Indispensable to every religious, seriousminded man of parts, was but an extension of the voluminous Puritan journals kept faithfully that one might record his inward thoughts and constantly review them, that he might more neatly come to know himself and, particularly, the will of God concerning him. It was in this 557 spirit that Governor Bradford kept his History of Plymouth Plantation, one of the noblest documents of Puritan literature. Entirely aware that he was fulfilling his intent of recording the history of his colony as he himself had witnessed the history being made, he records the daily happenings objectively and without bias, sparing neither himself nor his fellows. While his account is accurate and modest, his supreme accomplishment is to record unavoidably his own personality as written in his plain style, yet one filled with the simplified dignity which is ever the hallmark of great prose. Many of his images are homely, which but add to their power to convey his thought to the page. And that he knows The Book as well as his own heart is revealed not so much by his references to the Bible (though they abound) as by the rhythm, the diction, the pure idiom of his words. That he deserves the title of the father of American history is almost too obvious to merit comment, and disputed by none. More, he deserves the right to speak for himself, that all may judge. When the Pilgrims realized that their twelve-year stay in Holland must soon end, because many of their children were straying, Bradford had confidence in the promise of New England, despite its terrors: for it is not with us as with other men, whom small things can discourage or small discontentments cause to wish themselves at home again.... We were well weaned from the delicate milk of our mouther-countrie, and inured to the difficulties of a strange and hard land, which yet in a great part we have by patience overcome. Both his own dedication and the 558 group's high sense of purpose and destiny are revealed by his words describing their departure from Leyden: So they left that goodly and pleasant city which had been their resting place near twelve years; but they knew they were pilgrims, and looked not much on those things, but lifted up their eyes to the heavens, their dearest country, and quieted their spirits. Such lines were never penned by a troubled, ignoble spirit. Bradford was very near The Book and the God he loved, as these lines testify. As we might suspect, Bradford was above pettiness and _ trivia. When some of the less dedicated members of the company complained to him that the mosquitoes of New England bothered them, Bradford wrote: They are too delicate, and unfit to begin new plantations and colonies, that cannot endure the biting of a mosquito. We. Would wish such to keep at home till at least they be mosquito-proof. While space will not permit long excerpts from his words as contained in our text, pp. 38-44, which should be read aloud at length, we should be reminded that the great purpose of his History was to show God's presence in all things, honor and power to his name. 'This final point RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 can best be illustrated by an excerpt from his History not found in our text: The earthquake was very terrible for the time, and as the men were set talking in the house, some women and others were without the dores, and the earth shook with that violence as they could stand without catching hould of the posts and pails that stood next them; but the violence lasted not long.... So powerfull is the mighty hand of the Lord, as to make both the earth and the sea to shake, and the mountains to tremble before him, when he pleases; and who can stay his hand? Particularly in recent years, it has been debated whether Puritanism left upon America a stamp predominantly good or ill. Were the Puritan cause to be represented solely by such a devout, dedicated soul, there could be no question. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How do Calvin's Five Points prove his to be a God-centered religion? 2. In relation to the established Church of England, how did the Puritans differ from the Pilgrims? How did they regard each other? 3. Why did Pilgrims and Puritans alike keep a journal? What was William Bradford's purpose in writing his History? 4. Why are the Renaissance and Reformation of special significance to Latterday Saints?