[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: General Feature | Title: 511 Notes To the Field: The Annual Gene-ai Reliet Society Conference 5l2 Notes From The Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
9lojb2A.    TO  THE  FIELD 
oJhe  JrCnnuai  (general  LKeiief  Society   (conference 
npHE  Annual  General  Relief  Society  Conference  will  be  held  Wednesday 
and  Thursday,  October  8th  and  9th,  1958.  The  general  session  will  be 
held  on  Wednesday,  October  8th,  from  2  to  4  p.m.  in  the  Tabernacle.  It 
is  suggested  that  ward  Relief  Society  presidents  ask  their  bishops  to  an- 
nounce in  the  wards  the  general  session  of  the  conference  to  which  the 
general  public  is  invited.  Attendance  at  the  Officers  Meeting  on  Wednes- 
day morning  October  8th,  from  10  to  12  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  the  de- 
partmental meetings  to  be  held  Thursday  morning  and  Thursday  after- 
noon, October  9th,  is  limited  to  stake  board  members  and  mission  officers. 
A  reception  to  which  stake  board  members  and  mission  officers  are  invited 
will  be  held  on  Wednesday  evening,  October  8th,  from  7  to  10  in  The 
Relief  Society  Building. 
JLate  Q>i uminer 
Frances  C.  Yost 
Late  in  the  summer,  there  has  come  a  day 
More  lovely  than  the  others;  a  day  caught 
In  an  enchantment  beyond  time  and  place. 
The  earth,  the  sky,  the  sea  of  deeper  hues, 
Are  windless  yet  ahve.    My  eyes  traverse 
Like  birds  across  the  far  expanse  of  space, 
And  viewing  all,  my  heart  desires  no  change.

alonor  cfhi/  QJather  and  cJliii    lliotner 
Honour  thy  father  and  thy  motlicr:   that  thy  cla}'S  may  be  long  upon  the  land 
which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee  (Exodus  20:12). 
HonorJThv  Father 
and 
Mother 
\  LL  who  dwell  upon  the  earth  are 
following  in  various  stages  of 
their  journey  the  path  between  the 
pre-existent  life  and  the  eternities 
to  come.  Thus  earth  life  is  but  one 
part  of  a  spiritual  progression  in  our 
long  seeking  for  greater  perfection. 
The  youth  of  the  earth  are  look- 
ing forward  along  a  lighted  path 
where  they  have  never  been  before, 
and  older  people  are  looking  back 
along  the  earth  path  where  they  have 
already  walked  in  hope  and  faith,  a 
path  now  known  to  them,  its  pit- 
falls and  its  satisfaction  known,  its 
signposts  noted. 
Throughout  the  ages,  the  youth 
of  the  earth,  eager  for  learning  and 
experience,  have  at  times  resented 
the  guidance  which  sometimes  has 
appeared  to  them  as  being  too  freely 
offered.  Yet,  it  would  be  well  if 
all  children,  older  children  and 
younger  children,  who  are  blessed 
with  living  parents  and  the  abiding 
memory  of  loved  ones  gone,  might 
recall  and  consider  the  inescapable 
fact  that  their  parents  are  but  earlier 
travelers  on  the  life  path,  and  their 
counsel  is  offered  from  the  wider 
range  of  wisdom  acquired  through 
living. 
As  children  mature  and  seek  their 
life  companions  and  the  Vv^ork  which 
seems  to  fulfill  their  talents  and 
their  preferences,  then  the  counsel 
of  parents  may  be  as  a  rod  of 
strength  in  a  place  where  young 
people  encounter  shifting  beliefs 
and  social  change. 
A  truly  wise  and  understanding 
parent  will  not  seek  to  make  his  sons 
and  daughters  replicas  of  himself, 
but  rather  will  try  to  direct  his  chil- 
dren into  paths  of  personal  fulfill- 
ment in  harmony  with  personal 
abilities  and  needs.  Wise  are  the 
parents  who  have  illuminated  the 
path  ahead  for  their  sons  and 
daughters  from  earliest  childhood, 
by  teaching  such  fundamental  atti- 
tudes and  habits  as  reverence  for  the 
commandments  of  God,  prayer, 
virtue,  kindness  and  consideration 
for  others,  order,  and  industry. 
The  honor  which  parents  recei\e 
in  gratitude  and  joy  in  their  pos- 
terity, is  usually  the  result  of  wise 
training  which  they  have  given  their 
children  in  all  the  years  of  their  de- 
velopment. For  them  the  ancient 
commandment  has  been  enlarged 
and  glorified  by  the  deep  love  and 
the  continuing  appreciation  which 
flow  frech-  from  the  hearts  of  the 
children  to  their  honored  parents. 
BE  HONEST  WITH  YOURSELF 
Page  513

LKecipes  QJroni  the    I  Lor  them    fliexican    11  iission 
Submitted  by  Rhoda  C.  Taylor 
Cajeta 
2  qts.  milk 
1  lb.  sugar 
1   tsp.  ^■anilla 
1   tbsp.  cornstarch 
Vi    tsp.  soda 
Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil  and  add  the  other  ingredients,  except  the  vanilla,  and  boil 
until  a  syrup-like  consistency  is  formed.  At  first  stir  only  occasionally.  As  it  gets  thick- 
er, stir  more  often.    Add  the  vanilla  and  cool. 
ESPANADAS 
(Baked  Turnovers) 
3  c.  flour 
Vi    c.  shortening 
Vi    c.  milk 
1  egg 
2  tbsp.  sugar 
!4    tsp.  salt 
Sift  flour  with  sugar  and  salt  three  times.  Add  shortening  and  beaten  egg.  Then 
add  milk  gradually.  Mix  well  and  kneed  to  form  a  soft  and  smooth  dough.  Roll  thin 
and  cut  in  rounds.  Place  a  little  of  the  filhng  on  the  rounds  and  fold  moistened  edges 
together,  pressing  well.  Brush  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  at  4150  de- 
grees, then  reduce  to  350  degrees  for  the  time  needed  to  cook  through  thoroughly. 
(The  filling  usually  consists  of  cooked  fish,  but  the  following  is  good,  too.) 
4  hard-boiled  eggs 
3   tbsp.  water 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
3  Bermuda  onions 
4  tbsp.  oil 
3  red  canned  pimentos 
1  c.  grated  cheese 
Chop  onion  and  boil  until  transparent.  Drain  and  cook  in  the  oil,  being  careful 
not  to  let  it  brown.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  grated  cheese,  chopped  pimentos,  chopped 
eggs,  and  salt  and  pepper.  Should  the  mixture  be  too  dry  add  a  little  more  oil. 
Calabacitas  Picadas 
(Chopped  Summer  Squash) 
4  c.  chopped  green  summer  squash 
4  c.  chopped  tomatoes 
corn  from  two  ears 
1  green  pepper 
1  tbsp.  minced  onion 
1  clove  garlic  minced  (optional) 
4  tbsp.  olive  oil 
1  pkg.  Philadelphia  cream  cheese 
Clean  and  boil  the  green  pepper  and  cut  in  thin  strips.  Boil  corn  for  five  minutes. 
Oil  a  casserole  dish  and  place  in  alternate  layers  the  squash,  tomatoes,  onion,  garlic,  corn, 
green  pepper  strips,  salt,  pepper,  and  oil.  Cover  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  squash  is 
done.     Serve  hot,  garnished  with  crumbled  cream  cheese. 
Chilaquilos 
(Chili  and  Cheese  Casserole) 
10  tortillas 
1  c.  cream 
3  green  chili  (canned  may  be  used) 
2  c.  tomatoes 
3  c.  ground  meat  (beef,  pork,  chicken) 
2  tbsp.  minced  onion 
2  c.  grated  cheese 
Fry  the  tortillas  in  deep  fat  (not  crisp),  then  put  them  in  the  cream.     Grind  the 
meat,  add  minced  onion,  shredded  chili,  from  which  the  veins  and  seeds  have  been 
Page  514