[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 23 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
cJhe    I  iorthern    1 1  iexican    1 1  iission 
Pieston  R.  Nihley 
Assistant  Church  Historian 
AT  a  conference  of  saints  and  missionaries,  held  in  Mexico  City  on  June 
lo,  1956,  under  the  direction  of  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  and  Elder  Spencer 
W.  Kimball,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  Mexican  Mission  was  di- 
vided and  the  Northern  Mexican  Mission  was  formed.  The  new  mission 
embraced  the  towns  and  cities  of  Mexico  lying  north  of  an  imaginary  line, 
drawn  from  near  the  town  of  Tepic  on  the  west  coast,  directly  eastward 
to  the  Gulf  of  Mexico.  In  this  territory  it  was  estimated  that  there  were 
3,009  members  of  the  Church,  located  in  thirty  branches.  Elder  Joseph 
Taylor  Bentley  was  chosen  as  the  first  president  of  the  Northern  Mexican 
Mission,  with  Eliseo  Trevino  as  his  first  and  Von  Lloyd  Sorenson  as  his 
second  counselor.  Robert  Grant  Taylor  was  named  as  the  mission  secre- 
tary. Approximately  seventy  missionaries  who  had  formerly  labored  in  the 
Mexican  Mission  were  transferred  to  the  Northern  Mexican  Mission. 
The  headquarters  of  the  new  mission  was  established  at  Monterrey, 
and  a  suitable  mission  home  was  acquired  in  that  ctiy. 
A  very  successful  youth  conference  was  held  in  Monterrey,  during  the 
last  week  of  July  1957.  Approximately  250  youthful  members  of  the 
Church  attended  and  took  part  in  this  delightful  event. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Rhoda  C.  Taylor 
DETALLES  DEL  TROPICO,  TAMPICO,  MEXICO 
Page  500

THE  NORTHERN  MEXICAN  MISSION  501 
^  1 
#t    t:     r 
i  I 
Photograph  by  Rhoda  C.  Taylor 
PLAZA  IN  SAN  LUIS  POTOSI  IN  NORTHERN  MEXICO 
President  Bentley  served  as  president  of  the  Northern  Mexican  Mis- 
sion until  December  1957,  when  he  was  called  by  the  First  Presidency  to 
serve  as  an  assistant  to  President  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson  at  the  Brigham  Young 
University.  He  was  succeeded  by  Harvey  H.  Taylor  of  Dublan,  Mexico. 
Counselors  to  President  Taylor  were  Hector  Trevino  and  Jerry  K.  Clayton, 
with  Kenneth  May  as  the  mission  secretary. 
In  a  tragic  automobile  accident,  which  took  place  near  Mexico  City 
on  May  18,  1958,  President  Claudious  Bowman  of  the  Mexican  Mission 
was  killed.  Shortly  thereafter  President  Harvey  H.  Taylor  of  the  Northern 
Mexican  Mission  was  called  to  take  President  Bowman's  place.  It  was  then 
announced  that  Israel  Ivins  Bentley  had  been  appointed  president  of  the 
Northern  Mexican  Mission. 
On  March  31,  1958,  there  were  4,060  members  of  the  Church  in  this 
mission,  located  in  forty-three  branches. 
Thirty-seven  Relief  Society  organizations,  with  697  members,  were 
reported  by  Kathleen  Bentley  in  December  1957.  Following  Sister  Bentley, 
Rhoda  C.  Taylor  presided  over  the  Northern  Mexican  Relief  Society  for  a 
short  time.  Anna  Walser  Bentlfy  is  the  recently  appointed  Relief  Society 
president. 
Note:  The  Cover  for  this  Magazine  "Vista  of  Monterrey,  Northern  Mexieo,"  was 
submitted  by  Rhoda  C.  Taylor.  See  also  "Recipes  From  the  Northern  Mexican  Mission," 
by  Sister  Taylor,  page  514.