[Vol45 | August 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Annual | Author: Parker]
[Annual Report 1957 Hulda Parker]
512  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1958 
Ladv  Reading  gives  of  herself  unselfishly  and  is  one  of  the  great 
women  of  the  world  today.  In  manner  she  is  modest  and  unassuming^ 
but  in  her  speech —  sparkling  and  dynamic  —  she  reveals  the  strength,  sin- 
cerity, and  singleness  of  high  purpose  which  has  molded  her  life's  pattern 
into  that  of  a  woman  dedicated  to  the  service  of  those  less  fortunate.  Before 
her  return  to  England  in  June,  she  was  given  an  honorary  doctorate  degree 
from  Yale  University.  She  was  similarly  honored  in  1956  by  Smith 
College. 
Lady  Reading's  husband,  now  deceased,  was  an  honored  servant  of 
England.  Twice  he  was  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  England,  was  Ambassador 
to  the  United  States,  and  Viceroy  of  India.  Lady  Reading's  expression  be- 
comes lighted  when  she  speaks  of  her  beloved  husband  and  his  great  work. 
During  Lady  Reading's  visit  she  was  privileged  to  meet  the  First 
Presidency  and  expressed  herself  as  looking  forward  to  meeting  President 
McKay  during  his  visit  to  England  where  he  will  dedicate  the  London 
Temple  on  September  7,  1958. 
9lojb2A.    TO  THE  FIELD 
oJhe  JrCnnuai  (general  LKeiief  Society   (conference 
npHE  Annual  General  Relief  Society  Conference  will  be  held  Wednesday 
and  Thursday,  October  8th  and  9th,  1958.  The  general  session  will  be 
held  on  Wednesday,  October  8th,  from  2  to  4  p.m.  in  the  Tabernacle.  It 
is  suggested  that  ward  Relief  Society  presidents  ask  their  bishops  to  an- 
nounce in  the  wards  the  general  session  of  the  conference  to  which  the 
general  public  is  invited.  Attendance  at  the  Officers  Meeting  on  Wednes- 
day morning  October  8th,  from  10  to  12  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  the  de- 
partmental meetings  to  be  held  Thursday  morning  and  Thursday  after- 
noon, October  9th,  is  limited  to  stake  board  members  and  mission  officers. 
A  reception  to  which  stake  board  members  and  mission  officers  are  invited 
will  be  held  on  Wednesday  evening,  October  8th,  from  7  to  10  in  The 
Relief  Society  Building. 
JLate  Q>i uminer 
Frances  C.  Yost 
Late  in  the  summer,  there  has  come  a  day 
More  lovely  than  the  others;  a  day  caught 
In  an  enchantment  beyond  time  and  place. 
The  earth,  the  sky,  the  sea  of  deeper  hues, 
Are  windless  yet  ahve.    My  eyes  traverse 
Like  birds  across  the  far  expanse  of  space, 
And  viewing  all,  my  heart  desires  no  change.