Mothers and Grandmothers and Great-grandmothers in Israel.
BABY JOSEPHINE PRESTON, HER MOTHER AND SIX GRANDMOTHERS.
Seated in the center, Mrs. Josephine Herrick Preston and Baby Josephine. Above is Mrs. Jane West Herrick, Mrs. Preston's mother. To Mrs. Herrick's right, Mrs. Josephine Richards West and to Mrs. Herrick's left, Mrs. Agnes McQuarrie Herrick. On the right, standing, is Mrs. Kate Dollinger Pyper Preston. Seated, left Mrs. Christine Dollinger Pyper. Seated, right, Mrs. Harriet Ann Thatcher Preston.
Josephine Preston, 6-months-old daughter of Doctor Alexander Pyper Preston and Josephine Herrick Preston, has the distinction of possessing two grandmothers and four great grandmothers, all living. Mrs. Josephine Herrick Preston is the daughter of Prest. and Mrs. John L. Herrick of the Western States mission, with headquarters at Denver, and is 22 years of age. Mrs. Kate Dollinger Pyper Preston, 55, is the mother of Dr.


Alexander Preston. Mrs. Pyper, 82, is the wife of the late Judge A. C. Pyper, and Mrs. Harriet Ann Thatcher Preston, 79, is the wife of the late Presiding Bishop William B. Preston. Mrs. West, 64, is the mother of Mrs. John L. Herrick and the daughter of the late Elder Franklin D. Richards, of the Council of the Twelve. Her husband is Joseph A. West of Ogden. Mrs. Agnes McQuarrie Herrick, 76, is the wife of the late Lester J. Herrick of Ogden and the mother of President John L. Herrick. Mrs. John L. Herrick is 44 years of age. Baby Josephine was three months old when this picture was taken in November.
Can you imagine eight more beautiful, distinguished, and refined faces than we are presenting to you in this unique group? Consider the babies and how they grew, till this lovely sight is revealed to our view!
THE NEED By Grace Ingles Frost
I must leave to the bard of mind sublime, The song of the gods and their work divine; My heart goes out unto common things; 'Tis not the butterfly, that wings Its way from flower to fairer flower, Which needs my care, for it has power; 'Tis the tiny grub, the weak cocoon, From which do higher beings bloom.
My hands extend unto human kind In their dire need, unto those grown blind And deaf unto things of right and truth, Unto the wayward maid and youth; Those of the potent strength and will, They need not me, but those who fill Their cup of life with bitter taint, Those who grow weary, aye, and faint, From their endeavor to abstain; 'Tis they who need, they racked with pain Of wretchedness, frail humankind, 'Tis such as they I bear in mind.
Yes, I will leave to the bard sublime, The song of the gods and their work divine. For the care of the human I must heed, In his each extremity of need. For me is the thought which brings not gain, 'Tis for me to lift and assuage the pain Of the human, whosoe'er he be, 'Tis the work, me thinks, God chose for me.