LESSON . Literature (Optional) "The Princess." Our first lesson told us that Tennyson was a past master at writing narrative. "The Princess" is an excellent example of the poet's skill with this important literary form. As this lesson is in course of preparation thirty-five states have ratified the suffrage amendment. When thirtysix shall have ratified the amendment, it will be part of the constitution of the United States. We devoutly hope that when this lesson is given, suffrage will have been obtained and the long struggle be over. In 1847, Tennyson wrote "The Princess," a poem that was regarded as extremely radical at the time. Indeed, Tennyson was heart-broken at the very cold reception it received at its publication. This cold reception, was due. in the main, to the fact that critics and readers of the old school dreaded any thought that advocated in any way the emancipation of women. A very attractive introduction, full of typical English atmosphere, leads to the story proper, which is the story of a princess who obtained her father's consent to use some castles belonging to his realm to found and build a college for women. Ida is the princess. When a mere infant she was betrothed by proxy to a prince of a northern clime. When the day drew nigh that the prince should wed, his father sent ambassadors with gifts to fetch her. The presents brought from Ida's father another present and a vague reply, confessing to the promise, but saying that his daughter had a will. When the prince's father received the letter, he swore, "that he would send a hundred thousand men and bring her in a whirlwind." The prince felt that there must be some mistake in the matter and pleaded to go and see what he might do. He went to the count, there feasted for several days, made his request, and from her father came this reply: "I would you had her, prince, with all my heart," but my daughter "begged a boon a certain summer palace which I have, to found a university." So the prince with two of his companions made up their minds to visit the college. For this purpose they purchased female apparel, and succeeded in this disguse in entering the college. They visited the classes, and for some time concealed their sex with fair success. They have a detailed account of lady Psyche's class and of the instruction given. In the course of her lecture, "dilating on the future," she said: "Everywhere, two heads in council, two beside the hearth. Two in the liberal offices of life. Two plummets dropped for one to sound the abyss." After the evening meal the students who had wondered somewhat from their castle haunts, began to sing for pleasure and for pastime. The princess inquired of the newcomers, "If they knew no song, the true growth of their soil, that gave the manners of their country-women?" Under the spell of her summons, the prince could not recall such a song • but Cyril, one of the prince's companions, began to troll a careless cavern-catch of Moll and Meg, a strange experience unmeet for ladies. The singing developed the secret that the new students were not young women but men. The princess, full of wrath and indignation Then she commanded at the imposition, women tocried out, their mount "Torbeau horses sex." and flee. She was "blind with rage," and when she attempted to cross the water, "missed the plank and rolled into the river." The prince, all gallantry, caught her, as he tells us, "Oar in one arm, and bearing in his left, the weight of all the hopes of half the world." After a severe struggle in the water, he gave her to her maids who with much care revived her and she lived. Then came the prince's father, impatient at such female foolishness, intent on storming the castle and laying bare the land. At his threat of war, the brothers of the princess took arms in their sister's behalf, and the prince was forced to enter in the lists against them. 
 In the combat the prince is wounded, and many others of those who fought. Then the princess throws the doors of the college open and tells the young women of the school to take the wounded and give them every care. The princess asks for permission to nurse the prince, and is at first refused by his father, who thinks she is unsexed and greatly to be feared. Later, he yields, and the princess nurses him through an illness of much delirium, fearing constantly his death. At last the prince roused, and uttered whisperingly: "If you be what I think you, some sweet dream, I would but ask you to fulfil yourself. But if you be that Ida whom I knew, I ask you nothing;  only, if a dream, sweet dream, be perfect, I shall die tonight, stoop down and seem to kiss me ere I die.' "And I believe that in the living world my spirit closed with Ida's at the lips." "I could no more, but lay like one in trance." "Deep in the night I woke, she near me, held a volume of the poets of her land;  there to herseif, all in low tones she read." Then the prince, realizing the things that had inflamed her soul, and all the weight of sorrow that she bore, said to her, "Blame not thyself too much, nor blame too much the sons of men and barbarous laws. These were the rough ways of the world till now. Henceforth thou hast a helper, me, that knows the woman's cause is man's;  they rise or sink together, dwarfed or godlike, bond or free." If she be small, slight matured, miserable, how shall men grow? But work no more alone: "Let her make herself her own." To give or keep, to live and learn and be all that not harms distinctive womanhood. For woman is not undeveloped man. But diverse;  could we make her as the man, sweet love was slain;  his dearest bond is this;  not like to like but like in difference. Yet in the long years liken must they grow. The man be more of woman, she of man. He gain in sweetness and in moral height, nor lose the wrestling the news that throw the world. She, mental breadth, nor fail in childward care, nor lose the childlike in the larger mind;  till at the last she set herself to man. "Like perfect music unto noble words." Then comes the statelier Eden back to men. Then reigns the world's great bridals, chaste and calm;  Then springs the crowning race of humankind. May these things be? Sighing she spoke, "I fear they will not!" Dear, but let us type them now in our own lives. Again she spoke — "A dream that once was mine! What woman taught you this?" The prince answers her by telling her all his life he has had such ideas. His last words to her are "My bride, my wife, my life." O, we will walk this world yoked in all exercise of noble end, and so through those dark gates across the wild that no man knows. Indeed, I love thee;  come, yield thyself up;  my hopes and thine are one, accomplish thou my manhood and thyself. "Lav thy sweet hands in mine and trust to me. "This poem is noted for its wonderful songs or lyrics. "Sweet and Low," "Blow Bugle," and "Tears, Idle Tears," are lyrics of the vey) highest order. During the early days of the fight made for suffrage in Great Britain, speakers very frequently made use of lines from "The Princess" in their addresses, but before the struggle was over they came to feel that "The Princess" was too mild and conservative for their purpose, so the poem fell into disuse on the suffrage platform. Nevertheless, it is only fair to say, that no matter how conservative some may think the poem is at this date, it is true that Tennyson was one of the very first men of consequence in Great Britain who asked that women be given extended privileges, whose voice was raised for their emancipation. Many of the lines, both in the narrative and in the lyrics, are most exquisite;  they are literary gems of a very high order. Note that these lines, while they carry on the narrative, are also replete with disappointment: But Ida, with a voice that, like a bell tolled by an earthquake in a trembling tower, rang ruin, answered full of grief and scorn. A lyric must be pronounced in its musical quality. Note the musical effect and the beauty of the imagery, in these lines taken from Tennyson's wonderful lyric: "The splendor falls on castle walls, And snowy summits old in story;  And the long light shakes across the lakes. And the wild cataract leaps in glory;  Blow, bugle, blow, set the wild echoes flying, Blow, bugle, answer echoes, dying, dying, dying. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. L Have "Sweet and Low" and "Blow Bugle" sung during the meeting*. If that is not possible, have some good 
 reader, read them to the class. It will be easier to have "Sweet and Low" sung than "Blow Bugle." 2. How many years is it since Tennyson published "The Prince ss?" • 3. How many years since the women of Utah first voted? 4. What western commonwealth began its history the year of the publication of "The Princess?" 5. Has the civilized world pretty generally realized Ida's dream in the matter of opening colleges to women? 6. Are men and women co-operating in the world's work more in these latter days than formerly? 7. Do you think the Relief Society has broadened woman's sphere? If so, tell why, and give examples. 8. Ida loved Psyche's body;  read lines 175 to 179 in section six of "The Princess." 9. What three references are made to flowers in this passage? Tennyson was a keen observer of nature. Some of his critics say he never made a mistake in his reference to nature. 10. Beginning with lines 239, section seven, we have the prince's of plan think it? for righting woman's wrongs, what do you We wish that the lesson might inspire the reading of the poem at home, as these lessons permit only a brief outline of so long a lesson,