[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 511 | General Feature | My Memory Garden Elaine | J. Wilson]
memory of a much-loved garden. Then came beauty The glory of God's creations Partnered with the woman's tender care and dreams and hopes 'a=. Blossomed as the rose.' Theima A.

MY c/Vlemory GARDEN Elaine J. Wilson w Today I walked in my flower garden, admiring each lovely color and scent. But I wasn't thinking of the plants alone. I was thinking of people. Most of the plants in my garden are gifts or exchanges from others. I have some small, gray succulents that were given to me by a very wonderful friend. When she was ill I went to help her and, as she regained her strength we walked in her garden and she gave me slips and starts of flowers and succulents. Her friendship is a warm treasure in my life. So, as I look at the star-like succulents and think of her, my inner self glows with warmth, too. Not so with my double Shasta daisies! These come from a friend who fills me with envy because she is so talented. As. I look at the stark white petals, I have to remind myself that I am getting close, too close, to envying her talents. What I must do is work harder to develop my own talents. There are the brilliant orange-red cannas with the deep plum-red foliage. These leaves make attractive floral arrangements, so neat and uncluttered. This is ironic because the woman who gave them to me is a poor housekeeper. But here, again, I must teach myself to be less critical, not to judge. Perhaps I would do no better if we exchanged places. As I look at my many Echeveria, I feel remorseful. How well I remember my young son rushing in to tell me that Mrs. Jones was giving us some hens and chickens. Without thinking, before he had a chance to say more, I snapped, "What will we do with chickens in a city!" After I had finished sputtering, he explained that they were hen and chicken plants. I had to apologize for my abruptness. Now, I have hen and chicks several places in my yard. When I look at them, I try to remember that I am inclined to jump to conclusions. I need to eliminate this factor from my life. I want to develop qualities of understanding and empathy. I think of the man who gave me several rhizomes of iris, saying, "Tris are the poor man's orchid." They are delicately beautiful despite their inexpensive cost. As it is in life, some of the more ordinary values are just as beautiful as those that seem more exotic. Old and tested friendships will, or should, mean more to us than knowing someone of notoriety, just because of who they are. I shall try to let my good friends and neighbors know that I love them and appreciate them and not just make a fuss over someone important. My garden brings much more into my life than bouquets of rainbow colors and perfume. It gives me a chance to evaluate myself and reflect on life's meaning, and to appreciate the goodness all around me.