[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 501 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
Mrs.  Kemmons  (Dorothy  Lee)  Wilson  of 
Memphis,  Tennessee,  was  chosen  Ameri- 
can Mother  of  the  Year  (1970)  in  New 
York  on  May  12  by  the  American  Mothers 
Committee,  Incorporated.  Mother  of  five 
outstanding  children,  from  twenty-seven 
to  twenty  years  old,  she  was  a  key  figure 
in  opening  a  workshop  for  retarded  chil- 
dren. She  says  the  greatest  book  on  rear- 
ing children  is  the  Bible.  She  and  her 
husband  tried  to  teach  the  children 
integrity,  love  of  their  work,  and  sincerity. 
Mrs.  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower,  widow  of  the 
former  president,  and  Honorary  President 
of  the  American  Mothers  Committee,  re- 
ceived a  special  citation  as  a  homemaker 
from  military  post  to  the  White  House. 
Mrs.  Walter  (Janet)  Davidson,  of  Longmont, 
Colorado,  twenty-seven  years  old  and 
mother  of  three  children  six,  four,  and 
two,  was  chosen  as  Young  Mother  of  the 
Year.  For  the  third  year,  the  American 
Mothers  Committee  has  selected  a  Young 
Mother.  The  purpose  is  the  same  as  that 
motivating  the  American  Mother  program: 
"to  strengthen  the  moral  and  spiritual 
foundations  of  the  home,"  and  to  help 
parents    become    better    parents. 
Mrs.  Richard  Dexter  (Alta  Estella  Cutler) 
Rust,  Vernal,  is  the  Utah  Mother  of  the 
Year.  As  a  widow  she  reared  five  sons, 
all  of  whom  have  excellent  educations 
and  responsible  positions.  Three  are 
Eagle  Scouts;  four  have  served  on  Latter- 
day  Saint  missions.  A  full-time  public 
health  nurse,  Mrs.  Rust  has  been  very 
active  in  Church  work,  has  taught  as  a 
volunteer  many  classes  in  first  aid,  and 
makes  and  gives  away  hundreds  of  useful 
articles  including  rugs  and  quilts. 
Mrs.  Calvin  F.  Smith  was  State  Chairman 
of  the  American  Mother's  Committee  for 
Utah. 
Mrs.  Edmund  P.  (Lucretia  Miles)  Evans, 
Salt  Lake  City,  was  first  runner-up  in  the 
Utah  State  contest.  She  was  cited  for 
her  pioneering  of  the  State's  first  school 
lunch  program,  her  contribution  in 
alcoholism  programs,  and  service  in  the 
Latter-day  Saint  Junior  Seminary  program. 
Mrs.  Richard  C.  (Vera  Cutler)  Stratford, 
chosen  California  Mother  of  the  Year,  is 
a  former  Utahn  and  active  member  of 
the  Church  who  headed  the  Relief  Society 
program  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 
when  her  husband  presided  there.  She 
has  given  outstanding  service  to  civic 
causes,  particularly  for  the  aid  of  dis- 
advantaged children  and  in  hospital  work. 
Mrs.  Cyril  (Evelyn)  Beck,  another  Latter 
day  Saint,  was  named  First  Merit  Mother 
of  California,  cited  as  a  "devoted  worker 
who  has  established  on  the  solid  founda- 
tion of  motherly  love,  a  home  and  a  life 
that  are  models  in  their  every  spiritual 
and  material  appointment." 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  New  York-New 
Jersey  area  presented  music  for  the 
awards  luncheon.  Ellen  Barnes  of  the 
General  Board  of  Relief  Society  con- 
ducted the  chorus  of  100  participants; 
Clara  Tilton  Neu  was  accompanist;  Melva 
Barborka,  soprano  soloist;  and  Kathleen 
Kienzle,  harpist. 
Belle  S.  Spafford,  General  President  of 
Relief  Society,  President  of  the  National 
Council  of  Women,  and  Second  Vice- 
President  of  the  American  Mothers  Com- 
mittee, presided  at  the  meeting  which 
presented  a  "Galaxy  of  1970  State 
Mothers  in  a  Golden  Frame,"  and  de- 
livered an  address  at  the  afternoon  meet- 
ing on  May  4th.  Mrs.  Spafford  was  given 
a  special  honor  in  the  department  of 
"Organizations."  (See  page  492  of  this 
issue  of  the  Magazine.) 
501 

EDITORIAL  /  Two  Who  Care 
"Pure  religion  and  undefiled  before  God  and  the  Father  is  this,  To 
visit  the  fatherless  and  widows  in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself 
unspotted  from  the  world." 
".  .  .  Love  one  another;  as  I  have  loved  you.  .  .  ." 
".  .  .  Pray  for  them  which  despitefully  use  you."  ".  .  .  Go  to  the 
house  of  mourning."  "Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged." 
These  and  many  other  admonitory  words  of  Holy  Writ  pertain  to 
the  calling  of  a  visiting  teacher.  The  attributes  of  loving,  cherishing, 
and  comforting  permeate  the  visiting  teacher's  work.  It  is  the  very 
essence  of  charity— the  motto  of  Relief  Society. 
It  is  a  privilege  to  be  found  worthy  to  be  a  visiting  teacher  and  a 
blessed  calling  which  requires  personal  preparation  in  the  realms  of 
spirituality,  physical  effort,  intellectual  activity,  and  charitableness.  An 
opportunity  is  extended  to  two  visiting  teachers  to  enter  about  eight 
designated  homes  each  month  as  emissaries  of  the  Lord  to  the  sisters 
in  the  home. 
Before  beginning  the  calls  it  is  well  to  go  over  in  one's  mind  the 
conditions  in  each  home  which  one  may  expect  to  find  and  resolve 
and  plan  with  the  companion  visiting  teacher  the  development  of  the 
message  in  a  particular  home,  where  this  is  felt  to  be  desirable,  and 
how  one  may  make  the  sister  in  the  home  feel  that  she  is  cherished— 
that  two  visiting  teachers  do  care. 
In  one  home  may  be  found  loneliness,  in  another  heartache,  or 
there  may  be  sickness.  A  young  mother  may  be  overburdened,  or 
sorrow  may  have  entered  a  home.  Moreover  the  needs  may  shift  as 
the  months  go  by.  A  fervent  prayer  by  visiting  teachers  humbly 
offered  in  behalf  of  the  great  visiting  teaching  work  to  be  accomplished 
Volume  57    July  1970     Number  7 
THE  GENERAL  BOARD 
Belle  S.  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  C.  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  W.  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
Mayola  R.  Miltenberger,  Secretary-Treasurer 

will  be  answered  by  the  Lord  in  inspiration  to  the  visiting  teachers, 
and  in  a  hallowing  of  the  relationship  to  the  sisters  in  the  homes. 
The  more  receptive  visiting  teachers  are  when  making  their  visits,  the 
more  they  will  be  prepared  to  go  the  second  mile  and  the  more 
blessed  will  be  their  callings. 
Preliminary  to  the  visit  in  the  home  has  been  the  attendance  at 
the  visiting  teacher  meeting  which  has  fortified  the  visiting  teachers 
through  the  instructions  which  have  been  received  from  their  president 
and  the  discussion  which  has  been  held  on  the  visiting  teacher  mes- 
sage itself.  This  meeting,  then,  has  fortified  the  visiting  teachers  in 
their  message  of  spirituality  and  compassion,  and  in  the  way  to  add 
meaningful  actions  to  words. 
Is  there  need  in  one  home  to  telephone  or  call  before  the  next 
visit  to  see  what  Sister  Allen  is  hearing  from  her  son  in  the  army? 
Does  Sister  Rose  need  to  be  driven  to  the  doctor?  Is  Sister  Carr 
overburdened  with  her  sick  mother  and  young  children?  The  visiting 
teachers  will  confidentially  report  such  situations  and  make  queries 
of  the  Relief  Society  president  who  will  assume  the  further  direction 
under  the  inspiration  of  her  calling. 
Visiting  teachers  are  not  left  alone  to  carry  out  their  callings.  They 
care  for  the  sisters  in  the  home  and  the  president  oversees,  directs, 
and  cares  for  the  visiting  teachers. 
The  Lord  has  provided  a  sisterly  watchcare  over  his  daughters,  a 
watchcare  which  goes  two  by  two.  Truly  every  Relief  Society  sister 
should  be  uplifted  and  sustained  in  the  knowledge  that  there  are  two 
who  especially  care  for  her  and  she  is  not  left  alone. 
-M.C.S. 
Leone  G.  Layton 
Celestia  J.  Taylor 
Myrtle  R.  Olson 
Marian  R.  Boyer 
Aleine  M.  Young 
Belva  B.  Ashton 
Alice  C.  Smith 
Orlene  J.  Poulsen 
Alberta  H.  Christensen 
Oa  J.  Cannon 
Lucile  P.  Peterson 
Marjone  M.  Reeve 
Winniefred  S.  Manwaring 
Lila  B.  Walch 
Elaine  B.  Curtis 
Ada  J.  Jones 
Mary  R.  Young 
Lenore  C.  Gundersen 
Zelma  R.  West 
Helen  G.  Lach 
Fanny  S.  Kienitz 
Marjone  C.  Pingree 
Leanor  J.  Brown 
Aline  R.  Pettit 
Elizabeth  B.  Winters 
Darlene  C.  Dedekind 
Reba  0.  Aldous 
Johna  de  St.  Jeor 
Alice  L.  Wilkinson 
Edythe  K.  Watson 
Luella  W.  Finlinson 
Beverly  J.  Pond 
Irene  W.  Buehner 
Ellen  N.  Barnes 
Norma  B.  Ashton 
Inez  T.  Waldron 
Hazel  S.  Love 
Kathryn  S.  Gilbert 
Maunne  M.  Haycock 
Anna  Jean  B.  Skidmore 
Fawn  H.  Sharp 
Verda  F.  Burton 
Amy  Y.  Valentine 
503
