[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 547 | General Feature | Homemaking— You Owe It to Yourself to Become a | Lovelier You]
HOMEMAKING A Lovelier You Discussion 1 You Owe It to Yourself to Become a Lovelier You "I.. Yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples!" (D&C 93:35.) Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help each woman accept her responsibility in taking care of her outward appearance. INTRODUCTION To Latter-day Saints, temples are not only havens of spirituality, but supreme examples of all that is lovely and beautiful on this earth. Our bodies are often called "tabernacles of the spirit." ".. Yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples..." (D&C 93:35.) To think of our bodies as temples, therefore, commits us to the task of treating them as temples. A beautiful woman is a woman who emulates her divinity and remembers that, as in our temples of God, cleanliness and modesty are first considerations. A woman who treats her body as a temple is grateful to her Father in heaven for the loveliness of her hair, her special coloring, her features, her skin, and her vitality. Brigham Young admonished the women to make themselves beautiful. Let the sisters take care of themselves, and make themselves beautiful, and if any of you are so superstitious and ignorant as to say that this is pride, I 547 Lord, Y as to the excellency of the heavens, an of the beauty ch dwells in the society 9 the Gods Were you to see an angel, you would 's peautiful and lovely creature ke yourselves like angels in goodne and beauty. Let the mothers proper ale Discourses of Brigham Young, ComP: John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1966}, pp- 215-16.) MOTHERS SET THE EXAMPLE "Tf there lS anything virtuous, lovely, OF of, praiseworthy, we seek after these things." (13th Article of Faith) As mothers; we must ever keep more guidance, ma seriousness set for our children. Is our to their grooming, pr ourself. Would you have your children practice in the food they eat? Then you as the must refrain ff her own clothes, "Am I dressing qualities of can a mother's appearance ds in the home? To be neat and clean dressed at home for we do for our friends? 5. De we take care in being tastefully dressed when we attend a special function want to feel difficult 10 our society to refrain from artificiality. Modern advertising tells must look good, taste good, smell good. The desire to cling to through dress which is false and iv] establishes a dishonest example for our young appearance should be one of dignity which accepts the added years with grace and pride. Discussion Question When high standards of dress seem to crumble about us, do we maintain our level-headedness and use good judgment in our own choice of clothes? Lesson Department CONCLUSION A woman is often judged by her appearance. First impressions are important. A woman needs to accept the responsibility of maintaining a pleasing outward appearance for herself as well as for others. SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 1 Morality and the Individual Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: To show how an understanding of morality makes for an enlightened regard for the individual in our