[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 545 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message— Truth and | Free Agency]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 1 Truth and Free Agency Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: Obedience to the Lord's principles will bring a divine fulfillment in an individual's life. He was free, incredibly and wonderfully free. Free to live his own life, be himself, and to find out his true identity. No restraints, no one to tell him what to do. He was his own boss. And dad had been very decent about giving him money. Oh, he was truly free. The big city, far from home, was exciting with its endless possibilities. Quickly he found many friends, his kind of people young, adventuresome, always trying out new ideas, embracing first this one and then. That. There was no limit to what they would not try. In this heady 

545 July 1970

 world of new values, he began to see how much his family missed by sticking to old-fashioned ideas of morality, such as the denial of free love. All the forbidden things that troubled them were not really bad. Just some old Puritan notions. Drinking was fun, drugs were fun, gambling was fun. It was true that his money seemed to be going fast, but he did not need to worry. It was one for all and all for one; everyone was his friend. It became a very pleasant life. One day, however, the money was gone. Economic want stalked, not only his life, but the area in which he lived. His friends suddenly were out when he called. Those who did take him in were starving as he was. He began to look around him at what "freedom" had brought to him and his friends. When the fun was over, there were the diseased whose lives would be forever marred by sickness. There were children unwanted and neglected. There were those prematurely old, their thinking evil, their lives full of poverty and neglect. Worse, they loved evil, exploiting and preying upon their fellowmen. Gradually he became aware that no one really cared about or for him. When he did find someone to love, affection lasted only briefly and then went out like a tiny flame in the wind. One day he could stand it no longer. He went into the countryside and hired out as a day laborer, but wages were low, and he was hungry all the time. He began to see that freedom was far different than he had imagined it to be. He had tried to find himself; instead, he had 546 become lost. Today many prodigals are as beguiled by the philosophy and enticing face of evil as was the prodigal son of whom Jesus spoke. (Luke 15:11-32.) How are we helping our children and ourselves to avoid mistakes and "lost"? Years from which for some there will be no return? How are we aiding them to understand the way of truth and freedom? Jesus pointed the way, "If ye continue in my word. Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." (John 8:31-32. Italics added.) Man is free to choose, but he must choose God's way or he will not find true freedom. The principles of righteousness are the same today as in the days of Jesus. Freedom is indeed wonderful. President David O. McKay said, Next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct that life is God's greatest gift to man Free agency is the impelling source of the soul's progress. It is the purpose of the Lord that man _ become like Him. In order for man to achieve' this it was necessary for the Creator first to make him free. ("Free Agency and Its Implications," Church Section, Deseret News, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 16, 1950, p. 4.) The Lord has said "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." (Luke 11:9.) One must have the faith to act on this promise. Often children and adults reject the way of the Lord because they do not see that the gospel principles were designed to help them in the real world. From the time the child is young we should take the time, the hours necessary, to listen to what is troubling him and help him to understand the application of these principles. We must constantly show an increase of love so that his trust in us grows. (D&C 121:43.) Through such trust we can lead him to understand why the Lord has set limits, why growth entails self-discipline and great effort, and how the Lord is fair, just, and reasonable in his counsel. Lesson Department By prayer, study, and righteous living we use our free agency according to God's plan. The "freedom" from _ responsibility sought by the prodigal son is enslavement. The freedom God intended for his sons' and daughters is light and truth, "for," as Paul says, "the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death." (Rom. 8:2.)