[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 539 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— The Origin of the Pearl of | Great Price]
Refreshments were served by the stake board."' 538 Lesson Department Serre Ceerer res % * - SPIRITUAL LIVING = Pearl of Great Price Ml * * % * % %* OK KK 6 2K OK KK OK OK KKK KK KKK Lesson 1 oan - - The Origin of the Pearl of Great Price Reading Assignment: The entire Pearl of Great Price Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman to obtain a stronger testimony of the Pearl of Great Price as scripture. INTRODUCTION When The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized on April 6, 1830, two books of scripture were available for the instruction and guidance of the members of the Church. The first of these, the Holy Bible, accepted by Christendom as its guide to salvation, had, in 1820, inspired the boy Joseph Smith to seek guidance from God as to which of all the contending churches was God's Church. In March 1830, the second ancient scripture, the Book of Mormon, was published that modern man might learn that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the true way of salvation, and that disobedience to God's commandments will bring destruction to modern nations as it did to two great _ pre-Columbian civilizations upon the American Continent. By 1835 therevelationsreceived by the Prophet Joseph Smith were available to the Church under the title the "Doctrine and Covenants of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." Subsequent editions of this book of scripture contained additional revelations. By 1921 this book contained its present number of 136 sections. As the Doctrine and Covenants had developed through several 

539 July 1970

 editions by the addition and deletion of some materials, so also did the Pearl of Great Price, the fourth standard work of the Church. The Pearl of Great Price, printed firstin Liverpool, En gland, in 1851, was published by Elder Franklin D. Richards, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles who was presiding over the British Mission. From 1878 to 1921 other editions were published in Salt Lake City. Many printings have been made since that date. THE MODERN BEGINNING OF THE PEARL OF GREAT PRICE (Some of the following information was derived from the excellent book The Story of the Pearl of Great P ce, written by Dr. James R. Clark, member of the Brigham Young University faculty.) From 1837, the time the gospel was introduced into Great Britain, until the first printing of the Pearl of Great Price, large numbers of people had accepted the gospel, many of whom had migrated to America. In fact, by 1850 over one-half of the mem bership of the Church, or about 31,000, resided in Great Britain, while 175000 were in Utah Territory, and the rest were in other parts of the United States. Sensing the need to provide members of the Church in Great Britain, two-thirds of whom were converts to the Church of four years or less, with instructional materials, Elder Richards gathered from various Church publications the very important 540 articles with which he made up the 1851 edition of the Pearl of Great Price. CONTENTS OF THE FIRST EDITION Only three of the fifteen items in the first edition of the Pear] of Great Price had appeared in one of the standard works in the 1835 edition of the Doctrine and Covenants had appeared sections 20, 27, and 107. Elder Richards apparently felt that these revelations on priesthood and Church government should be known to the saints in the British Mission through both the Pearl of Great Price and the Doctrine and Covenants. They were contained in the Pearl of Great Price until 1902, the fifth major edition of that book. The following Scriptures were first published in the first edition of the Pearl of Great Price: (1) the revision of Matthew 24, (2) Doctrine and Covenants, section 77, and (3) Doctrine and Covenants, section 87. The following items had appeared in other Church publications, beginning in 1832 until 1850, and are found in the present edition: (1) Writings of Joseph Smith, Part 2 (divided into two parts), (2) Book of Moses (in two parts in the first edition), (3) Book of Abraham, and (4) Articles of Faith. The poem, "Truth," known more familiarly as the hymn "Oh Say, What Is Truth?" was also included from 1850 to 1902. All the Doctrine and Covenants' revelations once in the Pearl of Great Price were deleted from the 1902 edition. One of these, Doctrine and Covenants section 132, appeared in the Pear] of Great Price in the 1878 edition. Class Discussion Wherein does the first edition (1851) of the Pearl of Great Price differ from the present (1921) edition? CANONIZATION The canonization of the Pearl of Great Price as scripture for the Church as a whole was performed in the Fiftieth Semiannual General Conference of the Church held October 10, 1880. After President George Q. Cannon, counselor in the First Presidency, presented the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price to the conference, President Joseph F. Smith, the other counselor, said to the conference: "I move that we receive and accept the revelations contained in these books [Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price], as revelations from God to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and to all the world." ("Fiftieth Semi-annualConference," Millennial Star, Vol. 42 [Nov. 15, 1880], p. 724.) Class Discussion Discuss why it was important for the membership of the Church to accept these two books as scripture: 1. As related to Latter-day Saint belief in continuous revelation 2. As being basic to the restoration of the Church Lesson Department TRUTHS TO MAINTAIN AND DEFEND THE FAITH The ancient scriptures in the Pear] of Great Price are the Books of Moses and Abraham. The Book of Moses was received by revelation, using the Book of Genesis as the guideline. On this matter, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., sald: The Prophet Joseph Smith began a revelatory revision of the Bible, but it was not finished, for which reason the Church has never adopted it as a whole. The parts we accept will be found in the Pearl of Great Price in the Book of Moses and the revision of the twentythird (last verse) and the twenty-fourth chapters of Matthew. (Church News, July 31, 1954, p. 9.) In June 1830, the Prophet Joseph recorded that the Lord "vouchsafed for us a supply of strength, and granted us 'line upon line of knowledge here a little and there a little,' of which the following was a_ precious morsel," and then there followed the first chapter of the Book of Moses, which was not in the Book of Genesis. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957], Vol. 1, pp. 98-101 [commonly called Documentary History of The Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) It was while the Prophet, with the assistance of Sidney Rigdon, was "translating" or revising the Book of Genesis that the Lord revealed chapters 2 through 8 of the Book of Moses (chapters 6:45-68, and 7, being an "Extract from the Prophecy of Enoch''). The Book of Abraham, the second ancient scripture of 

541 July 1970

 the Pearl of Great Price, came to the Prophet in an unusual way. Four Egyptian mummies and two rolls of papyrus were sold to the saints in July 1835, by Michael H. Chandler. When the Prophet translated the _hieroglyphics on the papyri, he discovered that they were the writings of Abraham _ and Joseph, who was sold into Egypt. (DHC, Vol. 2, pp. 235-36.) The Book of Abraham is the translation of the writings of Abraham. Having _ translated the plates of the Book of Mormon, written in reformed Egyptian, the Prophet was familiar with Egyptian hieroglyphics. On Monday, November 27, 1967, in a special ceremony at the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art, eleven papyrus pieces once owned by the Prophet Joseph Smith were presented to President N. Eldon Tanner of the First Presidency. (Church News, December 2, 1967, p. 7; Improvement Era, January 1968, p. 12.) The appearance of this material 132 years after it came into the possession of the Prophet was acclaimed by Latterday Saints as important evidence that the Prophet had Egyptian papyri which he translated as the Book of Abraham. The best information available to the Church for almost one hundred years was that the papyri and the mummies were destroyed in the Chicago fire of 1871. (Improvement Era, January 1968, p. 12.) The recovered papyri are only portions of the material possessed by the Prophet. The wellpreserved Facsimile No. 1 of the Book of Abraham is part of the collection. 542 From these ancient scriptures precious truths only alluded to in the Bible are revealed in greater clarity while truths not mentioned in Holy Writ are made known. TRUTHS ALLUDED TO Important contributions elaborated upon in these ancient scriptures and mentioned in the Bible are: (1) the premortal existence of the spirits of men, (2) the antiquity of the gospel of Jesus Christ, (3) the creation of man and other forms of life, and (4) a miscellaneous number of truths. These subjects will form the basis of future lessons in this course. To mention only a few truths not found in the Bible will be sufficient for the purpose of this lesson: (1) the temptation of Moses by Satan. (Moses 1:12-23.) (2) The name Jesus Christ and the expression "mine Only Begotten" (Moses 1:16-17; 4:28, 6:57) are not found in the Old Testament. In other words, the Old Testament, in_ its present form, does not identify the New Testament Savior Jesus Christ as God who gave revelation to the Old Testament prophets. (3) The vision of the beginning of the world to the end received by Enoch. (Moses 6:58-66; 7:1-69.) There are many facts mentioned in the Pearl of Great Price which give greater understanding of the period of the patriarchs and of Moses than does the information in the Bible as it has come down to us. To mention only a few: (1) There were written records from the beginning. (Moses 6:5, 46.) (2) Adam and Eve had other sons and daughters besides Cain and Abel, which explains where Cain got his wife. (Compare Gen. 4:1-2, 16-17; with Moses 5:2-3, 16-17, 28.) (3) The earth as the mother of men is a living organism, yet inanimate to man. (Moses 7: 48-49.) (4) A clarification of the expression "sons of God" as distinguished from "daughters of men." (Compare Gen. 6:1-2 with Moses 8:13-14.) (5) The Lord did not repent that he had made man, but Noah repented that God had created man. (Compare Gen. 6:6; Moses 8:25.) There is a consistency and harmony of truth found in the modern standard works of the Church compared with the Bible which bear evidence to the fact that Joseph Smith was blessed with revelation from a divine source. In _ fact, the three modern book' of scripture are witnesses to the validity of the Bible. Class Discussion Name and discuss one of the teachings not in the Bible but revealed in the Pearl of Great Price that impresses you. PREMORTAL EXISTENCE OF LIVING CREATURES Put yourself in the place of the nonmember acquainted with the teachings of the Bible and think how you would like to know the full meaning of such passages as the following: Then the word of the Lord came unto me, Saying, Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest Lesson Department forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. (Jer. 1:4-5.) Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessings in heavenly places_ in Christ: According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world. (Eph. 1:3-4.) Where wast thou when I laid the foundations. Of the earth? Declare, if thou hast understanding. When the morning stars. Sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy? (Job 38:4, 7.) The fact that men and other forms of life existed before this life is clearly indicated in the Pearl of Great Price. (Moses 3:4-5; Abr. 3:22-28.) THE ANTIQUITY OF THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST The idea that the gospel of Jesus Christ was known from the days of Adam to the days of Christ is not a part of the common "Christian" creed. New Testament writers, however, indicate that baptism and_= salvation through Christ were known to Old Testament prophets. (Gal. 3:8, 16, 17, 19, 24-26; (1 Cor. 10:2.) These truths were known to the patriarchs and to Moses. (Moses 5:9-12, 58-59; 6:58-66.) THE DIVINE MISSION OF JOSEPH SMITH Joseph Smith received the Lord's appointment as _ his Prophet to open the last dispensation of the gospel. (D&C 1: 17.) By revelation Moses knew that there would be one who would be like him in the last days to restore religious truths. And in a day when the children of men shall esteem my words as naught and take many of them from the book 

543 July 1970

 which thou shalt write, behold, I will raise up another like unto thee; and they shall be had again among the children of men among as many as shall believe. (Moses 1:41.) That the Bible would be changed and many important truths lost to the world was also known to Nephi centuries before Jesus' birth. (1 Ne..13:23-29; 21:1.) The function of a prophet is to receive the word of the Lord and to. Make it known to the people that they may be led in paths of righteousness. When inspired by the Holy Ghost a prophet's words become scripture. (D&C 68:2-4.) When one considers that Joseph Smith was the means of restoring the Book of Mormon, receiving' the Doctrine and Covenants, and the Pearl of Great Price, the number of pages of inspired truth which were given us through him outranks those of any other prophet of record. It was foreordained that he should be the restorer of scripture and also reveal scripture for the salvation of men. (2 Ne. 3:6-11, 14-15.) Another function of a prophet is to testify to revelation received by other prophets, for by the Spirit he may know of the truth of former revelations. The Lord said that in a day when the "Christian" religious world would lose faith in the Bible as the word of God, when the Bible's authenticity would be attacked by those who should be its supporters, creating distrust in its message and even in the divinity of Jesus Christ, the Lord would vindicate his prophets of old 544 through his modern Prophet. So he did through Joseph Smith. Class Discussion Viewing the contents of the Pearl of Great Price as one of Joseph Smith's contributions, how does it attest to the mission of Joseph Smith as a prophet? A PROPHECY Elder Franklin D. Richards in his Preface to the first edition of the Pearl of Great Price (deleted in later editions) prophesied that the day would come when Joseph Smith would be known in the world as one of the greatest men who ever lived, and the day would come when the world would recognize him as a prophet of God. The Lord prepared the Prophet for his calling in the eternal worlds before this earth was created. It was known to Isaiah that there would be a "not learned" person who would recelve an ancient book from the dust of the earth that would contain doctrine and increase faith in Jesus Christ. (Isa. 29:12, 24.) That book is the Book of Mormon. Furthermore, Nephi knew that Joseph Smith would be a great seer, even a choice seer, who in the last days would do the _Lord's work and thus perform a work of salvation for men. (2 Ne. 3:6-15.) The impress of his work would be felt among all men, even to the extent that in the millenium the peoples of the earth would come to accept that work. (D&C 1:17-23; 84: 96-102.) Millions had already heard his name, others have accepted him as a Prophet and have had the desire to let many others receive the same blessing. (D&C 103:5-7.) To him was given the promise that the "ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name," and that the priesthood would remain with him forever. (D&C 122:1, 9.) Except for Jesus Christ, no man who has ever lived has done as much for the salvation of men in this world as did the Prophet Joseph Smith. (D&C 135:3.) By the testimony of the Holy Ghost, President Joseph F. Smith said, and many others could say with him: Joseph Smith is a prophet of God living, not dead; for his name will never perish. The angel that visited him and declared God's message unto him, told. Him that his name should be held for Lesson Department good and evil throughout the world from the day it was spoken until this moment, and from now on until the winding-up scene, the name of Joseph Smith, the prophet of the nineteenth century, has been, is being, and will be heralded abroad to the nations of the earth, and will be held in honor or contempt by the people of the world. But the honor in which it is now held by a few will by and by be increased that his name shall be held in reverence and honor among the children of men as universally as the name of the Son of God is held today; for he did and is doing the work of the Master. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine [4th ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1919] p. 606.) Class Discussion Why do you believe that the prophecy concerning Joseph Smith will be fulfilled?