[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 496 | Fiction | The Secret of Blueberry Hill-Chapter 1 | Rosa Lee Lloyd]
Hadn't she kept the secret of Blueberry Hill all these years? Lila felt a twinge of conscience at her eagerness to know what that secret was. L. Ila opened the door and stood very still as she looked at Johnny. He was the happy-go-lucky, debonair one of the family. He isn't smiling now, she thought. He looks like a little boy ready to cry for his mother. Lila drew in her breath for courage, but the sweet curve of her young mouth trembled. "Lila Bob!" he said, and the old familiar nickname for Lila Barbara was a heartthrob from her childhood. "I didn't know she was sick. I still can't believe it. Why didn't you tell us? We would have been here!" Lila leaned against the door frame. She was so tired of answerThe Secret of Blueberry Hill ing this same question that had come over the telephone that morning from Elizabeth and Steven, and now Johnny. "Why didn't you tell us, Lila Bob, so we could have seen her again?" Tears of regret misted Johnny's blue eyes, those mischievous laughing blue eyes that had been the beacon light in Aunt Lucinda's life. Just a note from Johnny or Elizabeth or Steven could make her whole day a_ shimmering rainbow. "We'll make everything nice foreach other," Aunt Lucinda had always told them. "We'll work together to send Johnny to art school because he has such talent as a cartoonist. That boy! He can draw anything!" And they all had, Lila remembered now as she looked at Johnny who was a cartoonist for a national syndicate. Everything about Johnny McIntyre spelled success. His carefully tailored gray suit, his blue striped tie, his reddish blond hair, a shade darker than her own, with a natural cowlick that brushed over his forehead Everything but the sideburns was familiar. Aunt Lucinda wouldn't like those sideburns, Lila thought. But she would melt with love for him as Lila was doing now. "Oh, Johnny Johnny," she murmured. Then she was weeping against his shoulder and Johnny was soothing her. "IT know, Lila Bob. You will miss her more than any of us because you lived here with her. I know how you feel." Lila did not answer, but to herself she asked: Do you Johnny? Do you know what it's like to find someone you love gone for- 

497 July 1970

 ever? To be all alone in a big old house with two floors and a tornado cellar? Lila heard the _ telephone ringing. She went to answer it. "That was Elizabeth. She and Steven are at the airport. Will you go for them, Johnny?" "Come with me," he coaxed. "The house can take care of itself. If anyone comes they can wait for us." "But Johnny! That's not the way Aunt Lucinda would. Want us to do. She was so hospitable." "I know," he admitted. "Funny thing! There was always something good in that old freezer in the cellar. She seemed to know when folks were coming or when a tornado would blow through Skylark. Even though it didn't ever hit our house, we had plenty to help others who were in its path." "The neighbors will come," Lila added. ''We should be home." "Leave the door open,' he argued. "Who will steal anything? This is Skylark not Chicago." Lila looked at him as she dried her eyes. ""We've had thieves in Skylark," she told him. "Things have changed here, too. Only last week Aunt Lucinda said we better lock our doors at night." "No!" Johnny pulled a face. "Don't tell me people in Skylark have to lock their doors. I didn't know we even had a key to this old house." "Two keys," Lila replied. "Aunt Lucinda had them made last week after we saw those strangers coming down from Blueberry Hill. But [ll go with you it won't take long." "Blueberry Hill," he repeated 498 after they were seated in the car and headed down the highway. "How I've wondered about Blueberry Hill! Why wouldn't Aunt Lucinda let any of us go up there, Lila Bob? Do you think there was something dangerous, like quicksand?" "Qh, no, silly. Quicksand comes in swampy country." "Not always," he said. "I saw a cowboy in a western picture who. Got in quicksand." Lila shook her head. "I don't know. All of us were on our solemn honor never to go to the Hill. Even when she went to NEA conventions and I was here alone I never went to the Hill. I just couldn't break my promise to her. The secret she had kept was very sacred to her, Johnny. It was more than just a place. It was sort of a well like a pledge she had made to herself to keep us from some danger. Something she was determined to live up to." "TI know," he agreed. "I felt the same way. So did Steve and Elizabeth. We kept our promise to her. Remember the time I was down below in the hollow and I saw those strange men going up there? I ran to tell her and she sent me on an errand to the store. I stopped my bike on the highway and looked back. She was climbing up that hill with a determined stride. She had Grandfather's cane in her hand. I know her knee hurt her even then, but I don't think that was why she took the cane. I rode off to the store and when I came back she was in the kitchen making my favorite chocolate-puff cookies. She put a quart of milk in front of me on the table and told me r a bad time wh nN he wanted; en I went upstate Blueberry Hill and she to College, I had to Work half the Wouldn't sel] it." ay my tuition. = h, I do for the 1 I Ibly to through, We all Wondered Why She Wwouldn't Sell the Hill, espeSed some of Clally When it Was dangerous, But - "I would She said p - We Would h a Playboy if I'g had Work a little har. Ey, Lila Bob. I li: Only a Spot On the Map but it ca Of this 3; n be Proud pert. It is Modern jin every Way, even the Canopied entrance from the Bate to the I he saiq Our old [ I 

499 July 1970

 "Aren't you forgetting the North River Country Club? Aunt Lucinda told me that Scott Harrington takes you there once in awhile." Lila bit her lip. Aunt Lucinda had thought she was foolish to accept Scott's invitations because he needed a partner for the Club parties. All the business people in town belonged to the Club and Scott Harrington was now president of the bank since his father's death a year ago. He hardly noticed the girls at the bank and only thought of her as little Lila McIntyre in the small loan department. She knew he didn't think of her as an attractive, grownup woman. She was part of the things he took for granted; the warm Skylark sun or the path he took through City Park on his way to the bank each morning after he left his apartment on Center Street where he lived in quiet contentment with his books and good music. Aunt Lucinda must have known that Lila had admired Scott Harrington ever since he had gone to grade school with Steven and Elizabeth. She would laughingly scold Lila for always accepting his invitation when the occasion pleased him. She would say: "He needs a girl who will demand some sacrifice from him; not a sweet little angel like you who needs a man _ who can appreciate her Dresden-like beauty and take care of it." Lila was never quite sure if Aunt Lucinda really disapproved but she went on accepting Scott's invitations, hoping he would really notice that she was grownup now and wore her clothes as well as any woman at the Club, and her her reddish blond hair styled at Paula's. "You need a change," Johnny said suddenly. "Come back to Kansas City with me. There is nothing to keep you here now." Lila lifted her head, looking at her brother. What would happen if she went to Kansas City with Johnny? Would Scott Harrington wake up? Would he miss her when he needed a partner at the Club? Would he even notice that she had left town? "All right, Johnny," she said over the lump in her throat, "Tl go back to Kansas City with you. Somehow I think Aunt Lucinda would want me to go for a change." "I'll show you the _ town!" Johnny promised. "I'll make up for all those little dimes you sent to me when I was in art school." Lila blinked her eyes to hide the tears. She was _ homesick already; and she hadn't even packed her suitcase. So much had to be done. There was Aunt Lucinda's funeral to be planned, the house to be sold, and there was Blueberry Hill. What would Aunt Lucinda want them to do with Blueberry Hill? (to be continued) CINQUAIN The border North of the doorway Makes a flower bed for Grandma. She loves the plot as much as former Spacious gardens.