[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 494 | Article | Annual Relief Society Song Writing Contest— Announcement of Winners | ]
493 Contest Announcement of Winners = The General Board of Relief Society is pleased to announce the names of the winners in the second annual Relief Society Song Contest. The first prize of $100 (sixty dollars for the music and forty dollars for the lyrics) is awarded to Audrey Dotson Beck and Helen Campbell Monson, both of the Denver South Stake Relief Society, for their lovely hymn entitled "The Song of the Righteous." Sister Beck of Littleton, Colorado, wrote the music, and the lyrics were penned by Sister Monson, of Denver, Colorado. The second prize of seventyfive dollars is awarded to Ruth B. Lehenbauer, of Dearborn, Michigan, for her hymn "I Seek Thy Peace." Sister Lehenbauer 494 Audrey Dotson Beck was awarded second prize in last year's contest for "My Cup of Joy." The prize-winning songs are programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses by the General Board of Relief Society. The General Board is pleased with the response to the contest, although there were fewer entries than last year. Ninety-three songs were submitted, including four from outside the United States. The committee of eminently qualified judges were impressed with the caliber of the songs. The winners are to be congratulated for their very fine abilities, and appreciation is extended to all others who entered the contest. ds Helen Campbell Monson Ruth Benson Lehenbauer youth in Cedar City, Utah, where she attended the public schools and later the College of Southern Utah. Ruth Benson Lehenbauer was born in Washington D. C., a daughter of Serge and Elizabeth Benson. Her youth was Spent in Maryland where she studied Piano for ten years. She attended Utah State University and was graduated from Brigham Young 495 And then, nearing her sixtyfirst birthday, Aunt Lucinda had left them. She had told Lila only yesterday that she was one of the most contented and grateful women in the whole world. She had known romance even though her sweetheart had not returned from the war; she had reared four children who loved her; and, until six months ago when she had had to retire because her knee hurt so much, she had been the finest principal in the district. Even though the townspeople thought she was severe and unyielding in educational and civic affairs, they respected and admired her. Aunt Lucinda had the McIntyre beauty. She was tall with dark hair and eyes to match and, Lila remembered tenderly, she also had a dignified mysterious charm about her.