[Vol57 | July 1970 | Page 523 | General Feature | A Day at a Time | Mary Clough]
Day At A Time Mary Clough Several years ago we planted some giant sunflower seeds. They grew taller and taller, and one day we noticed that the leaves turned with the sun during the day. We had always thought it was just the flowers that did so. Eventually the flowers unfolded and became larger than dinner plates and faithfully followed the sun's orbit each day. One night about eleven o'clock we happened to turn a flashlight on one of the flowers. It had been facing west before dark, but now it had turmed again and was facing east, waiting for the sun to come up in the morning. We flashed the light on the others and found they, too, were waiting with faces to the east. We continued to observe them at night and found they were always turned expectantly to the east before midnight. In a few weeks, when they had fulfilled their purpose, they were too heavy with seeds to turn and follow the sun, so they remained motionless with heads bowed to the east. I thought there must be some kind of lesson or inspirational thought to be gained from this, and so I wrote the following lines: NN Vy A DAY AT A TIME pt La Have you ever watched the sunflowers ' aw: ~ That follow the path of the sun?, = SS They slowly turn from east to west Until the day is done. In the darkness they turn east again And before the midnight hour They're awaiting dawn's gentle fingers To strengthen each golden flower. When the dark of night overtakes you And you find you are not through With all the tasks that life requires And you're tired and discouraged, too; You also can look forward To the first faint light of day And ask the Lord to give you strength As you kneel to him and pray; 7 Having faith that he will help you i In his wisdom, so sublime, To overcome the trials of life A As you take a day at a time. SAN FRANCISCO The sea the sky, in mist The city floats, Never static Like the mountains Are static. Frozen waves Are the mountains, The sea and the city move.