A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	On Friday, November 2lst, the officers of
the Y. L. M. I. Associations of the four wards
of Brigham City held a social at the residence
of Prest. Minnie J. Snow, where a few hours
were spent in a very pleasing and profitable
manner. Addresses, speeches, recitations, vo-
cal and instrumental music was rendered by
the young ladies in a very pleasing and credit-
able manner, displaying skill and good taste,
exhibiting earnest reflection, a realization of
duty and a determination to honor their
positions and sustain the principles of our
faith.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith addressed the assembly
in a very touching and eloquent manner. Spoke
of the peculiar interest she felt in the associa-
tions of Brigham City. Saw and felt intelli-
gence seldom seen elsewhere. Gave advice on
speaking; said not to take up time in offering
apologies, but to cultivate a good and humble
spirit, and then the Lord will bestow the Com-
forter, for the Lord loves the meek and lowly
of heart. Felt the need of the fulness of the
Spirit in our exercises. Advised subjects that
would cause deep reflection; if recitations,
those that are worth storing up in our minds.
Hoped that the spirit manifested in our society
would draw us nearer and nearer together and
be felt in our future meetings; thought book
education was good, but far ahead of that is an
education in the truths of the everlasting Gos-
pel.
	Sister Harriet A. Snow, President of the Re-
lief Society of Box Elder Stake, next addressed
the meeting. Expressed her pleasure in listen-
ing to the wise counsels of Sister Eliza, also
to the resolutions of the young ladies; hoped
they would be carried out, for light and intel-
ligence is what we want to gain, and the more
we cultivate the spirit of unity the greater will
be our power, for now in our youth is the
time to improve, so as to become great and


noble women—never letting anything arise to
dampen our ardor, but being humble and prayer-
ful and persevering in our meetings and in all
good works, and the Lord will bless us.
	Prest. M. J. Snow, after making a few good,
appropriate remarks, ushered the company in-
to her large dining room, where a sumptuous
table was spread with the bounties of life.
which all partook of to their satisfaction, and
a most pleasant, enjoyable time was spent,
which will long be rememberd by those who
participated.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, we re-
main,		Respectfully,
		M. J. SNOW, President,
