ERN TOWNS.

	HYRUM, Cache Co., Nov. 15, 1884.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought a few words from this part of the
vineyard would be acceptable, if not very in-
teresting. We are blessed with good health
and pleasant weather, and though our enemies
seem to increase in rage, filling the papers with
falsehoods concerning us, packing juries to con-
vict and imprison those who have not broken
any constitutional law, forming anti-Mormon
leagues, denouncing us unworthy to live, to say
nothing of equal rights; still we are undaunt-
ed, and fear not their threats, for we know in
whom we trust, and feel satisfied that He will
control all things for the good of those who
serve Him. Our position reminds me of the
words of the Apostle Paul: "Those that live
godly in Christ Jesus must suffer persecution."
What else should induce them to persecute and
hate us? There is no people on the earth more
honest, more virtuous and more industrious
than are the Latter-day Saints; and our Arti-
cles of Faith are, without an exception, sus-
tained by the Holy Bible; the very book that


all the civilized world accept as their guide
and standard of salvation.
	Our Primaries in this Stake of Zion are in
good working order. They have emigrated
the fifth child of the Almond family, one with
the last company of Saints, two of the chil-
dren last year, and two the year before. The
children seem to take great pleasure in giving
five or ten cents a year for bringing the little
ones from a laud of poverty to a land of plen-
ty.
	A few weeks ago, by invitation, I accom-
panied our esteemed President, Zina D.
Young, to Malad Valley, she having been invit-
ed by Bishop Stewart to visit the sisters of
that place, where we held several meetings.
We also held meetings at St. Johns, Samaria
and Washakie (Indian settlement); at all of
these gatherings we had an enjoyable time.
Much good instruction was given by Sister
Zina, Bishop Stewart and others, and it seemed
to be a time of feasting to all.
	In witnessing the good influence produced
and the many hearts made glad by the visits of
Sister Zina, the idea is suggested, what a good
work such persons could do traveling and la-
boring among the sisters. We were received
and treated with great kindness by all, and by
none more so than Bro. Jesse Dredge, who met
us at Collinston with a carriage and took us to
the different settlements and returned us to the
depot.
	Our brethren and sisters are doing a good
work among the Lamanites. They have good
day and Sunday schoo s, as well as branches
of the Relief Society and Primary. The good
order observed in these meetings might well be
a pattern to a more enlightened race.
		JANE E. MOLEN.
	Nephi.


