NOTES AND NEWS.

	On Monday, November 10th, Mr. Woodall
obtained leave to bring in a Bill for conferring
the Parliamentary franchise on duly qualified
women. The Bill was brought in and read a
first time.—Ex.
	Mrs. Eva Luckes, matron of the London
Hospital, has gathered into a volume her series
of "Lectures on General Nursing," delivered
by her to the probationers of the London Hos-
pital Nurses’ Training School. They embrace,
as might be expected, much instruction, of a
kind particularly adapted to the class to whom
the lecture were addressed. Their range, how-
ever, is very wide; and few who are interested
in the subject can fail to learn something of
practical value at the hands of this competent
instructress.—Ex.
	On October 23rd, Miss Emma Jane Morgan,
Heatherland, Crumwear, Pembrokeshire
(the Sister of Dr. Francis Hoggan) was mar-
ried, in the little village church in which for
nearly half a century her forefathers have
worshipped, to Rev. Thomas Jones. The bride

[Column 2]

was, by her own special request, given away
by her mother, and not, as is customary, by a
male relation. This conservative lady little
knew that her request involved a most radical
innovation, the giving away of the bride by
her father or nearest male relation signifying,
at its origin, the making over to the husband
all the property rights of the bride, the mun-
dium, which was vested by prescriptive right
in the father of the girl, and the buying of
which, by the future husband, furnished a sum
of money, which eventually was appointed as
the dowry of the bride.—Ex.
	Another lady, Mdme. de St. Julien, Superior
of the Filles de la Charite de St. Vincent de
Paul, and Superior or the Military Hospital
of Marseilles, has been raised to this rank.
Mdme. de St. Julien has served in hospitals for
thirty years, and devoted herself to cholera
patients in 1865 and during the recent epidem-
ic. A gold medal has been granted by the 
Government for the same reason to Mine Maig-
non (Soeur Stephanie),who belongs to the same
hospital. There are at present seventeen wo-
men in France who have received the distinc-
tion of the Order of the Legion of Honour, of
whom Mdme. St. Julien is the last. The Order
is mostly given for devotion to the sick and
wounded; Lady Pigott, for instance, besides
several French women, has received the order
as a reward for her services to the wounded in
the Franco-German w r. But the name of
Rosa Bonheur, artiste peintre, is also in the list,
and we are told that Mdme. Abicot was decora-
ted for defending the house of the mdire of
Oison, her husband, against "armed men," and
that Mdme. Regis, who is the first decorated
Frenchwoman, earned her distinction in 1849
for "resisting the mob."—Ex.

	No cloud can overshadow a true christian,
but his faith will discern a rainbow in it.—
Bishop Thorne.
	The three intentions of poetry: Increase of
good, increase of understanding, and increase
of happiness.—Catherall.
	As the mind must govern the hands, so in
society the man of intelligence must direct the
man of labor.—Dr. Johnson.
	Conversation is the daughter of reasoning,
the mother of knowledge, the breath of the
soul, the commerce of hearts, the bond of
friendship, and the nourishment of content.
	"He that hath pity on another man's sorrow
shall be free from it himself; and he that de-
lighteth in and scorneth the misery of another,
shall at one time or another fall into the same
gulf."


