INVESTIGATING MORMONISM.

	The remarkable growth of Mormonism in
Utah and other parts of the United States,
and the efforts made by the ablest statesmen
to check the growth of polygamy, has brought
the Mormon problem so prominently before the
minds that an investigation of the original Mor-
mon Bible manuscript by scientific men will be
had, commencing next Monday. This manu-
script, which is declared to be the translation
of some heiroglyphics inscribed upon metal
plates, whose hiding place in the soil of Ontario
Co., N. Y., had been revealed to Joseph Smith
by an angel of the Lord, is in the possession


of David Whitmer, of Richmond, Mo. Mr.
Whitmer is now quite an aged man, and the
only surviving member of the little band who
assisted Joseph Smith in the founding of the
Mormon Church. He is said to lead an almost
blameless life, and is a firm believer that the
manuscript intrusted to his care is of Divine
origin. Whitmer, Oliver Cowdery and Martin
Harris were the witnesses who testified when
Smith published the Mormon Bible that an
angel of God came down from heaven and
laid before their eyes the plates that bore the
character of which the manuscript is said to be
translated. The investigation is being pushed
by Prof. Clark Braden, formerly President of
Abington College. The judges appointed for
the occasion are Col. J. T. Childs, of the Rich-
mond Conservator; Mr. Ethan Allen, of the
Lexington Observer, and Mr. Harrison, of the
Richmond Democrat. One of the principal
witnesses to appear before the Examining
Board is Maj. J. H. Gilbert, of Palmyra, N. Y.
He is the printer who set the type for the first
Mormon Bible. The points to be considered
are: 1. Is the manuscript in Whitmer's
hands the manuscript Maj. Gilbert used in set-
ting up the Book of Mormon? 2. Is the
manuscript punctuated and capitalized, and to
what extent? 3. Are the errors in grammar
and composition that are in the first edition of
the Book of Mormon found in the manuscript?
4. Has the manuscript been changed since it
left the hands of Oliver Cowdery, and to what
extent and by whom? There have been sever-
al theories advanced by persons who are not
of the Mormon faith as to the origin of this
Bible. The most plausibe one, however, and
the one most generally accepted, is that the
Book of Mormon was written by Rev. Solo-
mon Spaulding, a graduate of Dartmouth Col-
lege, who was in the habit of using his leisure
hours in the compilation of speculative and
historical romance relating to the origin of the
races which were former inhabitants of this
globe. The manuscript of one of these stories
is said to have been stolen by Sidney Rigdon.
After the publication of these scriptures by
Smith an attempt was made by the daughters
of Spaulding to expose the fraud, but success
did not crown their efforts. The original book,
as published by Smith, did not sanction poly-
gamy, but he is said to have received a revela-
tion in 1843 which authorized each "saint" to
take several wives. The examination of the
manuscript will occupy ten days or two weeks,
and the decision of the judges will probably
set at rest any further discussion of the ques-
tion.—Globe Democrat.


