	OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

     I think it was in 1832 that the citizens of
Jackson County began to show dissatisfaction
and make some threats in regard to the Mor-
mons, but made no demonstration of wicked-
ness until 1833, when they began to gather in
small parties and commit depredations by night


[Column 1]
[-]y breaking windows and shooting into the
houses of the Saints, and sometimes using
abusive language to our people. I remember
the mob set fire to a large haystack belonging
to father; it was but a short distance from our
house, and it made a tremendous blaze. In this
manner the mob kept annoying the Saints.
They were often holding meetings and forming
resolutions to drive or destroy the Mormons,
and as they said in one of their preambles,
"Peaceably if we can, forcibly if we must."
There was considerable excitement at times,
the Saints not knowing what the mob might be
led to do.
	The brethren in the vicinity where we lived
would gather with their guns, at night, into the
lower room of our house, that they might be
ready for any emergency. Sometimes the wo-
men would come and spend the night with
mother, being afraid to remain at home, be-
cause of the threats of the mob. The women
and children occupied the room upstairs, while
the men stood guard below. Twice guns went
off accidentally; once the ball went up through
the floor and through the head of the bed, but
as the family had not retired, nobody was hurt.
I remember hearing the brethren pray all to-
gether; not as one man, but as many. They
did not then understand the order of prayer
as we do now.
	Children had heard so much about the mob
that the very word was a perfect terror to them.
They would often cry out in their sleep, "The
mob is coming! the mob is coming!"
	When mother's youngest child was about
three weeks old she sent me, with my sister
Harriet, to the spring, a short distance from 
the house, when we looked back and saw about
fifty of the mob surrounding the house. We
stood and looked at them until they rode away,
then we went up to the house again. The mob
had taken father with them. George Simpson
and another of the mob entered the house and
took father by the arm and led him away, he
making no resistance. I think he was expect-
ing something of the kind, as they had made a
good many threats.
	They took him to Independence Square, but
we did not know what they were going to do
with him; it might be kill him; as they had so
often threatened to do. After they had been
gone a while, I stood at the window looking in
the direction they had gone, wondering what
the mob were doing with father, for we could
hear their yells and shouts, when I saw two
men coming toward the house. One I knew—
a young man by the name of Albert Jack-
son—he was carrying in his hand a hat, coat
and vest. The other I thought was an Indian,
and as they seemed to be coming right to the
house I was frightened and ran upstairs; but
when they came in it was our dear father, who had
been tarred and feathered, which gave him the
appearance of an Indian. The mob had done
their work well, for he was covered from head
to foot. I suppose there were hundreds, and
perhaps thousands, who witnessed the outrage.
One woman who witnessed the scene said there
was a bright light encircled father's head while
he was being tarred and feathered. The same
day, I think, Gilbert's store was broken open,
and the goods scattered in the streets. The
printing office was also demolished, and the
press type and papers scattered over the
ground. Bro. Phelps family lived in a part
of the building; they were turned out of doors
and their furniture broken and things scattered 
in the yard.
	While the destruction of the printing office
was going on two young girls, nieces of Elder
Gilbert, had run out of the house and hid in
the corner of the fence, and were watching the
mob in their operations, when they saw them
bring out a table piled with papers, and heard
them say, "Here are the revelations of the
d—d Mormons," They watched their op-

[Column 2]
portunity, when the mob returned to the house,
then they ran and gathered up as many of the
papers as they could hold in their arms and
ran into a cornfield and hid. The mob dis-
covered them running with the papers and fol-
lowed them, but could not ffind them. The
cornfields in Missouri are very large, and the
cornstalks grow so high that they are almost
like young forests, and it is an easy matter for
a person to get lost in one of them. These two
girls had to fund so far that they were lost; but
after a while they succeeded in finding their
way out. They went to an old shanty, where
they found the family of Bro. Phelps trying
to make themselves as comfortable as they
could in their new quarters. Sister Phelps
took the revelations and hid them in her bed,
and this is how some of the revelations were
preserved. The names of these girls were
Mary E. and Caroline Rollins. I remember
many of the circumstances that transpired at
that time, but was too young then to be able to
remeber the particulars well enough to tell
them; consequently I will take some extracts
from the Prophet Joseph's History, as that
gives the situation of things at that time bet-
ter than I can do it.
	He says: "On the 20th of July the mob
collected and demanded the discontinuance of
the printing in Jackson Co., a closing of the
store, and a cessation of all mechanical labors.
The brethren refused compliance, and the con-
sequence was that the house of W. W. Phelps,
which contained the printing establishment,
was thrown down, the materials taken posses-
sion of by the mob, many papers destroyed,and
the family and furniture thrown out of doors.
They then proceeded to violence towards Ed-
ward Partridge, the Bishop of the Church, as
he relates in his autobiography: I was taken
from my house by a mob—George Simpson be-
ing their leader—who escorted me about half
a mile to the court house on the public square
in Independence, and then and there, a few
rods from said court house, surrounded by hun-
dreds of the mob, I was stripped of my hat,
coat and vest, and daubed with tar from head
to foot and then a quantity of feathers put up-
on me; and all this because I would not agree
to leave the country, my home, where I had
lived two years. Before tarring and feathering
me I was permitted to speak. I told them that
the Saints had had to suffer persecution in all
ages of the world, that I had done nothing
which ought to offend any one; that if they
abused me they would abuse an innocent person;
that I was willing to suffer for the sake of
Christ, but to leave the country I was not then
willing to consent to.
	"But this time the multitude made so much
noise that I could not be heard. Some were
cursing and swearing, saying, call upon your
Jesus, etc., others were equally noisy in trying
to still the rest that they might be enabled to
hear what I was saying.
	To be Continued.


