A WELL DRESSED WOMAN.
	She was not beautiful, nor even pretty; and
so, madam, you may let down your nostrils and
uncurl the corners of your mouth. She had
not even a fine figure, in which very important
respect she was only "fair to middling," as they
say in trade. But as she approached us we
were conscience of a subtle sense of pleasure.
As she came nearer and nearer this increased,
and when it became all too certain that it was
not her beauty which awoke this delightful
sensation there was a moment of thoughtful
hesitation in the mind, and then it became
clear enough that it was the woman's dress that
was so beautiful, and that it was the extreme
rarity of this particular kind of beauty which
made the sensation we have mentioned. Of
course we must tell what this dress was.
Nothing easier. It was a simple loose gown
high upon the shoulders, girdled closely but
not tightly at the waist, and falling in light
easy folds, not to the ground, but nearly to the
ground behind and not quite so low before, so
that as the woman walked not even the hem of
her garments swept the sidewalk. There was
not a flounce, or a ruffle, or a plait, or a patch
of trimming of any kind upon the dress, the
skirt of which was simple enough to afford per-
fect ease of motion and to be graceful, but was
not full, was not tied back, did not hang over
a bustle, and there was no overskirt. The ma-
terial was muslin, or some cotton stuff: and--
oh, madam! read, mark, and inwardly digest--
it was not starched. It did not stand stiff, or
break up into patches, or make a rustling or
crackling as she walked. I was soft in texture,


soft in its outlines, and noiseless. Had it no
ornament at all?  Yes, indeed. Around the
bottom hem, at the wrists, and at the throat,
there was a narrow figured border of blue,
beautiful in design and in color, which gave
the dress a perfect finish, and was attractive
in itself without being at all obstrusive. Over
this dress she wore a short, light garment of
the same material, sleeveless and falling to the
hips. This costume might have been worn by
a Greek woman, by Aspasia herself, to the de-
light of Pericles, and yet there was nothing
about it which seemed outre or even strange,ex-
cept its simple elegance. Who the woman was
who thus clothed herself with beauty will prob-
ably ever remain a fact unknown in the mod-
ern history of costume.—Ex.


