CHRISTMAS.

	There is no holiday in all the year with so
many endearing recollections; so many charm-
ing reminiscences, such tender associations, and
altogether such wonderful fascination hanging
over and around it, as Christmas.  It is the day
of days, with the children more especially, when
they expect all sorts of gifts and treasures.  No
wonder the children love the day, it is the time
most prescient of good to them, and to all man-
kind.  The birth time-- the sweet and touching
story of the Savior's birth never grows old, no
matter how oft told.  Christmas Eve!  when the
self-same stars that guided the wise men of
Bethlehem shine down upon us, and we feel
such a holy presence, such a reverential awe, as
though angels were hovering near, and with
glad songs of rejoicing were echoing back from
the ages past Hosannahs to God in the Highest;
Peace on Earth and good will to all mankind.'
How the human heart clings to those words
divine with their answering aspirations.
How they lift the soul into a higher region of
thought and feeling. And the little ones par-
take the spirit of the day and interpret in their
own simple but eloquent way every expression
of sentiment and fancy that is uttered or felt by
the older people.  
	Christmas has grown now to be somewhat
American, where fifty years ago only the Cath-
olics and Church of England people kept Christ-
mas by any religious observance, and very few of
the descendants of the Puritans noticed it at all
as a day of gifts and rejoicing. But time in its
plodding course onward wears away old feuds
and grievances, and even the feeling of bitter-
ness between nations at variance, and during
the last half century many English customs and
much of the English manner has grown into 
the American character; and observances and
ceremonies once entirely discarded by the Puri-
tan forefathers and foremothers have become so
common that the children and young people to-
day are not aware of the strong prejudices that
once existed, and for many years were so decid-
ed against anything that savored of the special
celebrations of the country out of which they
had been cruelly driven on account of their re-
ligion. 
	Thanksgiving Day took on more of less the
character of Chistmas, and although it was not
considered "Gift day," yet there were always
church services in the morning and afterwards
gatherings, reunions, family dinners, evening
festivities, and the decorations with winter flow-
ers, the trailing ivy, and evergreens festooned
fantastically and ornamented with red berries,
and other appropriate symbols of hilarity and
mirth. In place of the real "Yule log" of Eng-
land  the New England people made huge fires
of pine knots, so gnarled and twisted that when
blazing the flame presented the most weired and
grotesque appearance, and when the rooms were
hung with green boughs and vines and all the
paraphernalia of the devotees of pleasure, one can
easily imagine legends and fairy tales to be true
and for a short time at least abandon himself to 
the full enjoyment of the passing pleasure. 
	Generally in every town there is music, either
vocal or instrumental, more often both, and
though the snow may fly without and the north
wind blow, yet all is busy life and eager expect-
ancy within.  New Year's Day was gift day
among the primitive New England folk, and so
they parried Christmas off  each side with
Thanksgiving solemnity and merry making, and
New YEars with glad greetings and welcome
gifts.
	But now the older people even, who were un-
accustomed in childhood to "hanging up the
stocking," have become so familiar with this
old-time German-English practice that they
have grown as well acquainted with Santa Claus
and all the legends of Christmas holidays as
those who were to the manner born, and the
ring of his reindeer bells as he glides at mid-
night over the house-tops are only the echoes of
the music of happy hours that are lived over
and over again in imagination; and it is not now
considered heterodox to feign a belief in
Santa Claus for the children's sake, but quite
the proper thing, and in harmony with the now
moderate but once stern and rigid ideas of New
England propriety and realism. 
	The family gatherings and friendly reunions
are blessed seasons of refreshing, and sure to
strengthen the ties of love that bind together
those that are endeared to each other through
association or the attachment of kindred blood
How happy are those who can assemble on
these precious days and feel that all is well, that
there are no absent faces to be mourned for, no
vacant places reminding them of an irreparable
loss.
	The writer believes most firmly in these fami-
ly dinners.  They keep fresh and green the
flowers of friendship -- and such times and such
places become hallowed shrines in the Temple of
Memory where one turns with loving tender-
ness and recalls in vision the cherished few who
met at the same fireside, who shared the honors
at the festive board, and forever and forever do
the bells of memory ring on, repeating o'er and
o'er each jewelled name.
	Sometimes fortune divides the family circle,
and for a time some one is missed of the loved
ones who helped to make the chain complete;
but if only absent for a time "on pleasure or on
business bent'--it is not right to murmur or
wear a brow of sadness, for "to be parted in body
is not to be estranged in soul-- and many a
dream--and many a vision may pass before the
mind of one whose lips are silent."
	There is one thing all should do at Christmas
time, if they wish to emulate the Savior and do
honor to "the babe in Bethlehem born," and
that is, to remember the poor, and out of the
substance God has given to each, donate lib-
erally to those less fortunate-- let none go cold or
hungry on that day, lest their cries should en-
ter into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth for a
testimony against those who heed not the in-
junction:  "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the
least of these, ye have done it unto me."


