MORMON WOMEN.

	I could wish my pen were inspired that I
could write half that is in my heart upon this
subject.
	Many ladies of the world talk of the degra-
dation of Mormon women; but we Mormon
women know better. We know of their purity,
truth, virtue and chastity, having lived with
them over forty years—summered and win-
tered with them all these years, and know the
love, affection and peace in their households.
The writer of this has also lived in the world,
and knows that there is more real happiness
in any real Mormon family (because we know
what constitutes real happiness; we know they
have the love of God shed abroad in their
hearts), than those of our civilized neighbors
of the outside world.


The writer of this is not living with a hus-
band; is not married to her son or grandson; is
not coerced into saying or doing what she does
not wish to. But why measure words with
those  love and make a lie? Is not God
our friend, and will He not come out of His
hiding place in His own due time in our de-
fense?
	The Lord said in answer to the Prophet
Joseph, who was pleading to know how long
His hand should be stayed, or His pure eye be-
hold from heaven the wrongs of His people:
"If thou endure thine adversity and thine
affliction well, God shall exalt thee on high
and thou shalt triumph over all thy foes." How
glorious to have God for our friend, and have
we not proven every day of our lives that He
is our friend? That He hears our prayers and
blesses us, gives us comfort and joy and peace
that the world knoweth not of? Where then,
will be those who love and make a lie, when
Christ shall come with ten thousand of His
Saints, when He shall come to make up His
jewels? God our Father has also said in one
of His revelations: "Cursed are all those who
lift up their heel against mine anointed, saith
the Lord, and cry they have sinned when they
have not sinned, saith the Lord, but have done
that which was meet in mine eyes, and which I
have commanded them."
	My sisters, let  us rejoice that we are per-
mitted to be numbered with those who have
their names cast out as evil for righteousness
sake. Know that if we are faithful we shall
be exalted on high and be crowned in the pres-
ence of God our Heavenly Father.
