EXTRACTS AND REMARKS. 
	The Deseret News, Dec. 10th, published a let-
ter from a Methodist in Bozeman, Montana, in
which he sets forth his ideas of the way in
which he would treat the “Mormon problem."
He says: 
EDITOR DESERET NEWS: 
	Through the kindness of some of your good


Mormon women I received a couple of little
Mormon books a few weeks ago.  They are the
first Mormon works that I ever read.  I was
not a little surprised while reading Mrs. Croche-
ron’s “Representative Women of Deseret,” to
find that so many of your Mormon women were
from New England, where wisdom is supposed
to have originated.  From the stories, that we
commonly hear of the ignorance of the Mormon
women I had almost made up my mind that
they must have come from some place where
they keep the run of the day of the week by
cutting a notch on a stick every morning. But
I find that some of them have even come from
Boston, the “hub of the universe.” So you can
plainly see that it has not been the reading of
Mormon books that has shaken my faith in the
present marriage system.
	The writer then makes further explanations
on the subject, very logical, and speaks of the
wretchedness resulting from monogamous mar-
riages in the world.  Refers those who find
fault with the system of a plurality of wives to
the Bible; and after telling some very plain and
unvarnished truths about the matter, he goes
on to say:
	“I often hear Christians tell of the joy and
bliss they expect to feel when they get to Abra-
ham’s bosom.  I don’t suppose that they have
ever stopped to think that Sarah, Keturah and
Hagar will be there; also Jacob, Leah, Rachel
and the two handmaids.  I have an idea they
will have to change their minds before they get
to Abraham’s bosom, or they are liable to be-
come dissatisfied with the country after they
get there, and there will be only one thing left
for them to do.  That is, to take Horace Greeley’s
advice and “go west.’
	“When the affairs of this world are all wound
up:  when all nations, kindreds and tougues shall
assemble for the great coronation of the King of
kings and Lord of lords, it does not seem to me
to be just right to have Abraham, Jacob, and
all the polygamists of old there, and at the same
time have the Mormons shut oat for the crime
of polygamy.  I am going to be there myself,
God being my helper, and if I.find that state of
things there you may look for me to come to the
door of that great banqueting hall and cry at
the top of my voice:
	"Let every kindred, every tribe,
		On this terrestrial ball,
	To him all majesty ascribe, 
		And crown him Lord of all. 

	"Oh!  that with yonder sacred throng
		We at his feet may fall;
	Come join the everlasting song,
		And crown him Lord of all.”

	This is only a part of the letter, but it shows
that there are a few people who are not quite
ready to shut the Mormons oat of the kingdom
of heaven.
	It is true that of the twenty-one women, a
sketch of whose lives are published in the book
he mentions, seventeen of them were either
born in New England or of New England par-
entage.  It has often been remarked as singular
that the descendants of the very people who fled
from the mother country because of religious in-
tolerance, should be the very men and women
to help lay the foundation of what is termed a
new religion in the new world.  It has been
said by one of the noted American writers that
“Mormonism is the only new religion America
can boast.” It is indeed the opening up of a
new dispensation with a religion as old as eter-
nity, that with its covenants, ordinances and
blessings reaches back to the beginning of time,
and grasping the present,extends forward to the
ages that are to come encircling the living and
the dead, and finally blending in one united an-
them the past, present and future,brought about
by means of those sacred and holy principles
that the world so condemn and despise.


