HOME AFFAIRS.
	On Tuesday, Dec. 9th, Sisters M. I. Horne, B.
W. Smith, H. M. Whitney and E. S. Taylor
went to Mill Creek to attend a special meeting
of the Relief Society at that place.  There were
two sessions, morning and afternoon, and dinner
in the hall during the intermission, at which
about seventy-five persons were comfortably
seated and enjoyed a bounteous repast.  The 
meetings were presided over by Mrs. Elizabeth
Hill, President of the Relief Society of Mill
Creek Ward; Bishop Hamilton was present and
made some remarks, also Bro. Snedakar.  The
morning meeting was addressed by Sisters
Horne, Taylor and Whitney, and the afternoon
by Sister Smith and others.  The sisters en-
joyed themselves very much indeed and passed
a very pleasant day in the society of the sis-
ters of Mill Creek.  The benediction was pro-
nounced by Patriarch James Works.
	A second edition of the Compendium has been
issued by the publishers and is now for sale; it is
a book that every Elder of the Church needs,
and Sabbath School teachers and officers of Pri-
mary Associations, and Y. L. and Y. M. M. I. 
A. would do well to purchase a copy, for
their own individual use for reference and
authority.  For Scriptural and other proof of the
Gospel it is invaluable.
	The stores and shops in the city are beginning
to put on a holiday appearance and one cannot
help feeling that the Christmas and New Year's
festivities are near.  There are more elegant and
beautiful things now seemingly than there ever
were before, for every show window is ornament-
ed with the rarest, choicest and loveliest goods
of all conceivable varieties, shapes, colors and
kind.  Surely the most fastidious purchaser can
find presents for his friends to gratify his taste
or theirs.  Everything seems perfect now on the
most elaborate scale, almost all books are illus-
trated, and expensive material used for covers as
well.  But there are books of all kinds in the
market, and prices ranging from a very trifle to
a large amount.  There is no lack of reading mat-
ter at the present time, and the Latter-day
Saint books alone would furnish a library hand-
somely.  It is to be hoped that the people will
remember "Mormon" literature while gathering
up Christmas gifts; as a people the Saints should
patronize the writings of this people as much as
their handiwork, and by this means create an
ambition in the youth of Zion to write good and
useful books.
	We have for sale at this office the books of
Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith, as advertised in an-
other column of the EXPONENT;	and Mrs. Han-
nah T. King's "Epic Poem," paper cover, 25cts,
bound in cloth 50 cts; Mrs. helen Mar Whitney's
"Why we practice Plural Marriage," paper cov-
er, 25 cts.; Mrs. Hannah T. Cornaby's "Auto-
biography and Poems," $1.00; Mrs. Augusta J.
Crocheron's "Representative Women of Dese-
ret," 75 cts. Any one of these books is suitable
to give a friend as a remembrance on Christmas
or New Year's, and there is nothing more appro-
priate than books for Christmas gifts.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, December 26 and 27,
commencing at 10 a.m. and  Y. L. M. I. 
A. at 2 p.m. as usual.  It is to be hoped there
will be a goodly number attend these meetings,
that the sisters may be encouraged in their du-
ties, and not only receive the instruction they
need in the performance of the same, but also
"a word in due season," for O, how good and
how precious a thing it is.


