CHRISTMAS IN BERNE
	A most interesting event in this strange city
is the market.  It takes place every Tuesday and
Saturday, and was par[-]cularly interesting just
before Christmas.  On Monday, Tuesday being
the holiday this week, large crowds of people
collected from all parts and the streets were lit-
erally thronged. 
	Most of the selling and buying here is done
out of doors and at a time l ke the winter holi-
days the streets ase all decked and ornamented
with the artic es of every description.  The princi-
pal thoroughfares become a large variety estab-
lishment, where one walks from one department
to another instead of walking, as one might sup-
pose, through the streets.
	Here we pass a stand of Berner carving works,
then another of ornamental "Leckerli"--a sort
of ginger cake with figures on it; now an old
woman with suspenders hanging all over her,
and a basket of them in her hands; next a man
covered with needles and pins and a tray of
them in front of him; a cart follows filled with
dolls and toys of all kinds, and presently one
sees a line hung with stockings and woolen
goods, after which comes a table of wooden shoes
--and so the sight goes on, extending for many
blocks.  These stands are mostly placed on either
side of the street, and straight through the cen-
tre stands a row of Christmas trees.
	At such times, of course, many children are
to be seen.  On Monday the people on the street
were amused and perhaps saddened a little by
tha sight of two little boys, the older scarcely
more than five years, shabbily dressed, walking
along singing at the top of their voices.  The
children sang remarkably well, giving the Al-
pine "Yodel" clearly and sweetly, too.
	Christmas morning at five o'clock the balls in
the large Muenster began to ring, and rang
every quarter of the succeeding hour, at the
conclusion of which service began.  It was a
clear, cold morning, and a perfect quiet pervailed
everywhere, the only sounds being the rich
tones of the bells and  steps and voices of the
people as they gathered to the church for wor-
ship.
	This Muenster is one of the largest churches in
Switzerland, and was erected in the 15th cen-
tury.  It stands near the centre of the old city,
and the tower commands a most lovely view,
reaching far over the city to the snow covered
Alps. It has never yet been finished, and is
never likely to be.  Its bells are very musical,
being indescribably sweet and deep in tone. The
belfry contains five large and several small ones,
the largest of these being the sixth in size in
the world, weighing 26,700 pounds.  The bell at 
the very top of the tower, rung only at New
Year's, is solid silver, and is the largest silver
bell in Europe.  The metal from which it was
made was brought here, so says the sacristan, by
the first settlers, eighteen hundred years ago.
	A family lives in this belfry to take charge of
it and see to the bells.  They have been there
twenty-eight years and know no other life.
They laughingly reply in answer to our com-
menton their elevated home, that they only
have to ascend one flight of stairs.  True enough,
only a flight of 224 steps would seem long
enough to be subdivided a few times.
	At a quarter to nine Christmas day all these 
bells rang out at the same time, making the air
fairly quiver with their music.  Twenty-one
men were engaged pulling the ropes.  At nine
service was again held, then at one and again at
three, after which followed a communion ser-
vice.  
	Christmas here is not the occasion of any jolli-
fication or musical merriment.  Everything is
quiet and peaceful, the day being celebrated in
the homes with Christmas trees, good dinners
and, I hope, happy hearts. 	A. W. C.


