EDITOR EXPONENT:
     One who has lived in a mountainous country
all his life is always prepared for majestic
sights; and while they never fail to delight a
lover of nature, they are seldom a source of
surprise. I had heard of the grandeur on the
[Column 2]
Denver and Rio Grande Railway, and I was
prepared to be pleased, but not surprised.  The
first day out the scenery is like most other
mountain scenery in Utah--picturesque, rural
and majestic successively.  There is a precept-
ible change, however, when Castle Valley is
reached.  It is impossible that the whole of the
section known as Castle Valley should be re-
presented by that portion of it through which
the "little giant" runs while day-light lasts.
There is a preceptible decrease in the height of
the mountains.  They widen out; the country
is more of a rolling character; the soil is of a
lightish color, and it is evident there is an
abundance of clay.  The streams are very few
and very far between, and the whole country
is barren and cheerless.  It is not, however,
without interest to the sight viewer, and in
some particulars reminds me very forcibly of
Southern Utah, or that portion of it below the
rim of the basin.
     There are crags and castellated peaks pre-
senting a very picturesque appearance to the
eye.  Hills rise up abruptly in the middle of
the plain and assume varied forms, attractive
because of their irregularity.  There seems lit-
tle question that the surface, or superficial ap-
pearance is the result of aqueous agencies.  The
whole valley has been covered with mighty
streams, which have carried away the soft soil
and left standing the harder substances, wrought
into innumerable forms and shapes and leav-
ing some entirely amorphous.  The rains and
frosts have broken fragments away from the
original mass, and they have fallen piece by
piece at the foot of the present mound;  they
give the impression that the mounds have been
undermined and a heavy cave of earth has re-
sulted.  The variety of forms, the wooded hills,
abrupt declines, elevated peaks, some standing
high and alone, and then a succession of them
of equal height resembling the teeth of an im-
mense and jagged saw--when seen in the dis-
tance and toned down by the intervening at-
mosphere; is picturesque and attractive indeed.
Of the country passed through at night of
course I can give no idea.
     The Marshall Pass is a very interesting point.
So far as the scene is concerned, independent
of the engineering feat in scaling the mountain
at a height of 10,800 feet above the sea level,
every person familiar with mountain scenery
has seen its equal.  It is a very beautiful sight,
as a natural picture, but associated with the
engineering feat referred to, it is a scene grand
in every respect.  It is not a little remarkable
to note the extent to which works of human 
ingenuity add to the sublimity of the works of
nature, when they are associated together, and
the scaling of the Marshall's Pass by the D. &
R. G., is especially noteworthy as an illustration.
It seems incredible to look out of the car win-
dow at the track winding round the mountain
side and think it should be scaled, but it seems
even more of an impossibility when the feat
has been accomplished to look down upon one,
two, three, or even five railroad tracks, far be-
low, and then believe they are all but portions
of one continuous line of rails over which we
have passed on the magnificent ascent.  To
gain this summit requires 17 miles of circui-
tous climbing up a continuous incline.  There
is now, however, a proposition to reduce the
distance to five miles, which is to be accom-
plished by running a tunnel through the moun-
tains a distance of two miles.  This would in-
dicate that twelve miles are lost in running
over mountain sides.  One does not feel any
sense of danger, and the deep gorges and
wooded hills stretching far below, as one gazes
from the car window, present a rich and de-
lightfully pleasing picture to the eye. 
     But there is really a beautiful piece of
scenery on the line--grand not because of any
metaphysical conditions, but from the operation
of natural influences pure and simple.  It is
[Column 3]
in the grand canyon of the Arkansas River. 
The road follows the windings of this river for
a long distance, till it finally enters the canyon
above named.  For miles and miles down this
gorge there seems to be scarcely a particle of
straight track, and the train flies along all the
while as serpentine in its movements as a whip,
before the point has reached its outward limit.
It is impossible to make the road bed straight,
for the reason that it had to follow the course
of the river, and even in doing so, and after
blasting and making a bed everywhere possi-
ble, the river at one point is so hemmed in by
towering rock cliffs that the rock is suspended
over the stream, and held up by an angular
arch--taking an almost inadmissible license
for the sake of clearness--which spans the
river and is bedded in the solid rock on either
side. And here the scene is painfully grand.
As the train winds along the eye turns heaven-
ward in search of the blue sky and in the hope
of seeing the top of the perpendicular solid
rock walls which rise half a mile into the air.
For miles there is not a place in which a tele-
graph pole can be planted, the result being that
iron arms are drilled into the solid rock, and
the crosses bearing the insulators are placed on
them.  The peculiar sensation which the inde-
scribable and lowering majesty the scene im-
presses, I find it absolutely impossible to ex-
press.  The nearest attempt to the ideal de-
scription my soul craves, in which begins to ap-
proach the ideal, is the remark made by a
quiet young man who was viewing the sight by
my side on the rear of the platform, and who,
like me, held his hat with one hand and had a
dead grip on the railing with the other.  After
all had exhausted themselves in superlative ex-
clamations of wonder and admiration, he quiet-
ly turned on his heel, and as he walked
through the door he remarked, "Well, that do
take the bun."
     I would be glad to give even the faintest idea
of the marvelous and majestic grandeur of the
scene, but if you can imagine a stream running
between massive cliffs whose summits are a
half a mile high, and as straight as an arrow--
so straight that they often seem to overhang the
track--if you can imagine these cliffs, piled
one on top of another, without the faintest
shadow of order, a chaotic mass, with the strata
turned in every conceivable direction, if you
can imagine this and a little narrow guage rail-
road track hugging close to the feet of one of
these giants, a mere speck, then you can im-
agine something--but not this scene. it seemed
to me as the engine whistle echoed and re-echoed
through the "Royal Gorge," which, by the way,
is its "purty" name, that the vibrations might
shake some of the jutting crags from their lofty
places and precipitate them down the dark ra-
vine and crush the puny little instrument,
which is used to convey man with lightning ra-
pidity from point to point, to a shapeless pulp.
It seemed to me that it--but as it didn't, it
makes little difference what it seemed.
	As it might appear immodest to cite one's
own experience it may, perhaps, be better to
give that of a gentleman who had traveled all
through the Rockies.  He said he had seen
much and imagined more, but he had never
seen, had never dreamed of anything so dread-
fully grand as the "Royal Gorge."  For myself
I will merely add that I do not regret the ex-
perience; I am glad I went, and saw, and got
through, but, like it always reminds me of
tooth pulling experience--a fellow is powerful
glad when the aching molar is out, but I never
knew a person who was particularly fascinated
with the prospect of a repetition of the experi-
ence.
