	THE ANTHEM.

	"There were shepherds, abiding in the fields
keeping watch over their flocks by night, and 
lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and
the glory of the Lord shone round about
them, and they were sore afraid. And the
angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I
bring you good tidings of great joy, which
shall be to all people. For unto you is born
this day in the city of David, a Savior, which
is Christ the Lord; and suddenly there was
with the angel a multitude of the heavenly
host, praising God add saying, Glory to God in
the Highest, and on earth peace, good will
towards men.”	
	I could not sleep last night; I lay awake long
after the clock “talked small”—of course at
such times the brain has its own panoramic
rambles. Thought was busy with me; one
thought seemed at last to engross the rest—
Christmas! That day of days, and its time of
times, when all Europe, all Christendom cele-
brates it, both in its religious services and in its
joyous festivities. In the Church of England,
my mother church, I must ever remember its
morning service with love and veneration; the
church bedecked in holly and ivy-green, and
its altar table spread with the holy emblems of
the holiest rite any church can observe, covered
with its pure white drapery, et cetera—but my
mind reverted to Christmas day morning ser-
vice in King’s chapel, Cambridge.  I seemed
again within its sublime precincts, which alone
are sufficient to inspire the more devotional
feelings.  Let me describe it—its peculiar
architecture has rendered it as such—the most
renowned building in the world, having one
solid arch throughout without any pillars to-
support it, the ceiling seems drawn together in
compartments by keystones, each weighing one
ton; the entrance is into the ante-chapel, plain
and unadorned, which is divided from the inner
chapel by a superb screen of elaborately
carved oak, embodying historical subjects.
	Through a noble arch in the screen, hung
with heavy crimson silk curtains, the visitor
passes into a scene that at once rivets every
sense and faculty possessed. It is a never-to-
be-forgotten place of worship to the Great
Architect of the Universe.
	I cau but give a faint description.  A tes-
sellated floor; it is surrounded by oaken“stalls,”
elaborately carved, with a reading desk each
side of the entrance; a highly ornamented
stand’for the choristers of the chapel, and the
end of the building is taken up by the altar,
over which is a sublime painting by Rubens
life-size, “Taking down from the cross,”—the
Three Marys; the Beloved Disciple, the cen-
turion, are prominent, figures, but there are
many others—all these make the subject of the
painting.
	The upper part of the chapel is surrounded
fly the magnificent windows of stained glass—
containing the entire life history of the Savior,
from His cradle to His cross—all is elaborate-

[Column 2]
ly and graphically depicted; and when the sun
is shining upon them the effect is marvelously
sublime. This chapel is exclusively for the Fel-
lows and Collegians of King's college, but on
grand days, such as Christmas andEaster,a few
visiters are admitted to the organ gallery by
tickets, the organ being placed in the centre of
the screen.
	All this, like dissolving views, passed
through my waking thoughts; memory was in
full session with its marvelous agency.  Again
I was in that organ gallery on Christmas day
morning.  I remember the soft prelude of the
fine organ, and its accomplished organist, and
then a young chorister in his white surplice
arose and advanced to the front of the orches
tral stand; and once again I seemed to hear
that boy’s rich; silvery voice break forth in the
solo of the thrilling anthem, “There were shep-
herds, et cetera,” that I have placed at the
commencement of my piece.  The solo is
somewhat lengthy, but oh, so beautiful! and
then the whole chapter of gentlemen, choristers
in white surplices join their harmonious voices
in one united volume, “Glory to God. Glory
to God in the Highest.  On earth peace good
will towards men.”
	When I arose in the dawn of the day—all
ha d faded, but I was so impressed with the
beautiful reminiscence that I thought I would
make a pen picture that never-to-be-forgot-
ten scene, which I shall carry with me“beyond
the gates.”

	Then came the festivities of Christmas; all
hearts-seem attuned for enjoyment in their
own especial way, children, sons and daughters
being separated by their avocations, again re-
turn home to spend Christmas; it is ever a time
of reunion for all “sorts and conditions of men
and women."  Girls and boys return from
school for Xmas holidays—all is joy and re-
joicing; the holly and the ivy decorate the
rooms, and the ballroom was not complete with-
out its renowned mistletoe of Druidical honors,
and every ball was drawn to its close by that
dear old-fashioned dance of Sir Roger de Cov-
erly, which when danced truthfully is elegant
in its formal quaintness.
	And then the bells! oh, those tale-telling
bells! What tongues they had for many a
heart and brain!  What volumes they told us
as they “rang in” Christmas day morning, and
rang the old year out and the new year in.
Are we so advanced in this boasted 19th cen-
tury that we have lost the heart-chords and
the brain-wires of ourearly days?  For myself
I can answer, happiness once given is a joy for-
ever, and ’tis written where every coming sea-
son “I turn the leaf to read it.” And as an
accompaniment, my heart and voice chant
forth: “Glory to God in the Highest.”
	HANNAH T. KING.
Dec. 5th, ’84.


