	A REVERIE.

	If there is anything that is really comforting
when I want to collect my thoughts, and peer
far into the future, or call up a vision of the
past, it is to sit in the dusk of evening, or when
the rest of the household have retired, all
alone in a dim shadowy room in front of a
grate full of live, red coals—sit and dream,
wide awake, O such delightful dreams! though
tinged with sadness.   Imagination, however,
must be vivid and the mood, must be decided-
ly reflective. The mind can wander away then
even into green lanes, where one hears merry
voices, and sees troops of boys and girls, and
their laughter rings out so clearly that it makes
me start, and although I sit here by the fire in
bleak December, I feel the warmth of the sun-
light and see the blue sky overhead, and I see
many, many curious and familiar places and 
people; in fact I dream so long that I wonder

[Column 2]
whether I am my real self, or if the morning
will find me going about my accustomed duties.
What thought spring up and resolve them-
selves into such real substances, as to almost
take on shapes of things, unseen, and yet to the
mind tangible. We feel and know that the 
heart beats still, that we are sensiblie to feeling,
therefore this must be only a dreamy phantasy,
a reverie, but we can see things that are not,
yet things that were.
	O, if the pen could only paint in telling 
words the scenes that pass before the eyes at
such times, it would be most interesting; but
unfortunately these are things one can never
describe accurately, or make another realize;
but for once I will tell you what I may of what
I see, although, perchance, you've seen the
same yourself a hundred times; but then, you
know, one's experience testifies to another's.
	I see a group of girls, not all so very hand-
some, but all pretty, with bright eyes and
pearly teeth, red lips and thoughtful faces;
some have dark eyes and dark hair, others blue
eyes and light hair; some are tall and others
small in stature, but nearly of the same age.
There are seven of them in the room and evi-
dently there is something unusual going on,
or about to take place, by the expression of
their countenances.
	It is a low, wide room with a great open fire-
place, and the wood piled high on the brass
andirons that are polished as bright as gold.
Shall we listen, for their lips move?  Susan,
one of the smaller and younger girls, is saying:
"I wonder where we'll be next year at this
time? Now that we are going away for vacation
and the holidays we might fall in love!"  "And 
I wonder," and Hannah, an older and wiser
looking one, with liquid black eyes that seemed
to read the thoughts of all the others, "whether 
any of us will be married." "And now," said
Sarah, who spoke like an oracle, "while we are
all here together, let us make a vow, and let
us be sure and keep it!" "What shall it be?"
from all the girls at once. "That none of us
will marry a man who had not a professional
title." And thereupon all the seven consented.
This may seem very silly to those who read it,
but if they could see those charming girls as I 
see them, they would readily comprehend that
singular vow as significant of the future of
these school-girls, for such they are, just about
to separate and each go her own way, treading
new paths, always sunny and pleasant while
youth and hope beat high and fortune smiles.
The girls linger over the fire and talk of home,
the journey they mustbegin to-morrow, the
hopes of success in this or that direction, until
the clock strikes the hour of midnight, and
then reluctantly they reitre, with an almost sad
"good night" to each other, for they know that 
on the morrow they must say a fond good
bye.
	To tell the story of each of these young
girls as we know it, and as we see it to-night
in mental vision, would be to write seven
chapters; for each would need its own, for their
lives lay far apart, and indeed, after that night,
only two of the seven ever saw each other
again. But perhaps you would like to know if
they married, and whether they kept sacred
the foolish vow they made, and if they loved
and were happy? I'll tell you one or two
things and leave the remainder of my story
for a sequel. They all, save one, lived long
enough to repent the idle promise made to
each other, and to realize that true, genuine
worth does not consist in a professional title.
Of course they silently reserved to themselves
the privilege of loving the man, as well as ad-
miring a title. Perhaps I might as well tell
you, lest your curiosity should cause you men-
tal anxiety, something about the fate of these
enthusiastic school-girls.
	Elizabeth, a tall, queenly looking girl, whose
accomplishments were superior to most of the
others, and who lived in a large city, married,

[Column 3]
within a year, a French Count—who had
neither money or brains, and who had not the
least practical idea of life, and of course made
her days perfectly wretched;  I will let your
imagination conjure up the untold story of her
repentance for the foolish vow she had made.
	Three of the girls, Sarah, Anna and Grace,
entered the list of teachers, and though one
might fancy they might have learned wisdom
through such an experience, still two of them
married, when an opportunity offered—such as 
they thought acceptable—and each one had
her own life history; a full one too.
	Ophelia, who was totally unlike the other 
girls in almost every respect, prouder and more
reticent, was already in love with a young
physician, and in due time they were united.
But she won him through strategy from the
girl he loved, and she found, when it was too
late, that her cup of misery was full to over-
flowing, and ere she had completed the seventh
year of her wedded life she was an inmate of
an insane asylum.
	Thus does retribution ever follow those who,
by duplicity and cunning, seek to destory an-
other's happiness to secure their own.
	Of all the seven girls who that night con-
versed together so full of life and happiness,
whose future seemed so full of bright prom-
ises of success in whatever undertaking they
might venture upon, only two of them ever
gained a crown worth wearing, and these two
girls became members of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. One of these died
of hardship and privation, brought about by
the cruel persecutions and drivings of wicked
mobs, but she died with a glorious hope and 
assurance of an immortal crown and title in
the world to come.
	One of that number still lives in far off New
England, a rich but lonely and disappointed
old maid. Some day I'll tell you the rest of
the story, for it is late now and the fire had
gone so low that my reverie is ended, and I,
too, must retire, for on the morrow there is
work to do, and I am sure this is enough for
one chapter of the story of seven.
