[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: [CONCLUDED.] | Author: Unknown]

[CONCLUDED.]
	ON the Monday after we commenced our home-
ward journey, our company was enlarged by
several brethren and sisters going to Conference
at Moab, Mrs. Freeze and I got into Brother Wm.
Halls wagon with him and his interesting and in-
telligent daughter Hannah. We traveled a beau-
tiful and excellent road, passed Montezuma
Valley with the City of Cortez in the distance,
also saw the Chuck a Luck Mountains in Arizona,
crossed a good bridge over the long deep and ex-
pensive canal made to take water to Cortez from
the river Dolores. We traveled a long distance,
and camped when quite dark for the night, which
was cloudy and every appearance of rain; our
beds were made by fire light; as we could not see
any distance so I wondered what sort of a place
it was, we slept well and comfortable, on awak-
ing in the morning I saw an immense flock of
crows pass over our beds and said to Mrs. Freeze
we are going to have no rain the crows are flying
very high. On getting on my elbow and looking
around I was delighted with the sight of the field
of beautiful flowers on which we had slept, there
was nothing else in view, I pulled a bunch which
I keep for a relic from under our wagon cover
and mattress and I admired the place as a verit
able "Field of Ardath."


[Column 1]

	Continuing our journey we rode over a very
good and picturesque road, camped and had
lunch in a little grove 9,000 feet above the sea
level, drove fifteen miles, watched and saw the
last of that beautiful and majestic "Cathedral
Rock." Arrived at Dove creek, good water, re-
plenished our jars, and camped about a mile
farther; next day came to Piute springs, delicous
water, lunched and continued our travel, passed
La Plata and Blue mountains in the distance, saw
one solitary coyote, after hearing a number of
them howl and bark the night previous; we
wanted to see a big herd of them; on arriving in
evening at Monticello we received a very warm
and hearty welcome from the good folks there.
Mrs. Freeze and I attended a party given in the
school house in honor of the efficient and intelli-
gent teacher, Brother Thomas, who was intend-
ing to return to his home in Provo for vacation,
we very much enjoyed ourselves. Next day we
held a general woman's meeting, there was a
large attendance. In the afternoon Brother
Rogerson and wife came with buggy to take Mrs.
Freeze and I a drive to a high eminence where
we could get a splendid view of the surrounding
country, we came to Soldier Springs where a
company of troops had a good easy time and
vacation looking for culprits and cattle stealers
whom they did not find. We sat and looked
around the horizon seeing in the distance the
Mountains, La Plata, Blue, Silverton, La Salle, Ute
and Mancos.
	On starting from Monticello our company
numbered twenty-six persons, we had a most en-
joyable time in our camp that night, music and
singing, and we felt almost sorry our "camping
out" was to end so soon this being our last night.
Next morning we had a slight scare, some of the
horses were not to be seen, after a delay of a
short time they were all found safe; we passed
"Church Rock" a grand appearing and massive
sight, several of us walked down and up a very
large and dangerous gulch, flowers, flowers
everywhere, passing which, we came to a very
long and dangerous dugway, stopped and
lunched at Kane Creek. Traveled in afternoon
to Moab, Brother Holyoak's family were all
kindness and love to us; we were very much de-
lighted to meet Brothers Savage and Talmage,
who came to meet with the Saints in Conference;
we had a most interesting and instructive time
during the meetings held Saturday and Sunday.
On Sunday evening the Y. L. M. I. A. held a
Conference, addresses were given by Mrs. Freeze
and myself, Brothers Savage and Talmage, the
house was crowded. On Monday the Relief
Society and Primary Association held their Con-
ferences; all the meetings were fully attended; in
fact the meeting house was filled to its utmost
capacity, all seemed well satisfied and fully repaid
for the trouble they had taken in traveling so
many long miles. On Tuesday we had a painful
time in parting with our much loved and es-
teemed friends, Brother and Sister Hammond,
Counselors William Halls and Platte Lyman,
Bishop and Sister George Halls and others who
will ever hold a warm place in my heart. On
Wednesday morning we left Moab very early,
Brother Orlando Warner Jr. taking Sister Freeze
and myself; Brother Bayles taking Brothers
Savage and Talmage to Grand River which we
crossed safely on the ferry boat.
	As in our outward trip we camped for lunch at
"Courthouse Rock," still flowers, flowers every-
where, a continuous "Field of Ardath" all along
the road which the brethren kept us well supplied
with. Arrived safe and well at Thompson's
Springs, where we changed again to the railroad.
We had six weeks very pleasant visit with the
kind and hospitable people of San Juan Stake
who did all in their power to make us happy and
we certainly enjoyed ourselves to the utmost ex-
tent of our feelings. It was also the most de-

[Column 2]

lightful season of the year to travel. We give
heartfelt thanks to President F. A. Hammond for
giving us the opportunity.
