[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 543 | Lesson | Prayer Nellie | B. Schmidt]

PRAYER

Nellie B. Schmidt

Blessed are they who have learned to pray,
For they shall walk in the light;
For prayer is the key that opens the day
And the lock that guards the night.

543

WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life

Winnifred C. Jardine

Discussion I—Introduction

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches
at Work Meetings)

For Second Meeting, October 1964

Objective: To decide what happiness is and what some of
the bases for its achievement may be.

WHAT better study for Latter-day Saint women to engage in, than that concerning the pursuit of happiness? For in their positions as wives, mothers, grandmothers, sisters, and neighbors, it is their charge and obligation to create a climate within the home that will germinate and nurture seeds of happiness.

This achieving happiness is a noble calling, for Lehi in 2 Nephi of The Book of Mormon made the statement so dear to the hearts of the Latter-day Saint people, "Men are that they might have joy." Modern day prophets have reiterated this principle. Joseph Smith said that "happiness is the object and design of our existence." Brigham Young added, "To make ourselves happy is incorporated in the great design of man's existence." John Taylor told the saints of his day that "it is life and the pursuit of happiness that ought to occupy the attention of all intellectual beings." And President David O.

McKay has said, "Happiness is the end and design of life."

Latter-day Saints know that when we were given our bodies and permitted to come to this earth to accept the challenge of life here with its temptations and pitfalls and were given our free agencies to choose between good and evil, we were also given the opportunity to achieve full and unlimited happiness.

This year in our home management discussions we are plotting a course for ourselves and our families that will lead us to that happiness and joy about which the prophets have written.

No person on earth has such an opportunity and yet such a responsibility as does a mother for bringing happiness into a home, for it is through her that a home builds its spirit of happiness. It is from her smile that the others take their light. Each day as she sends her family out from the home she has the oppor-

544

tunity to do so with a cheery word, a bright hope, a promise. And when she welcomes them home at night it can be to peace and serenity, warmth and love.

Benjamin Franklin tells the story of a workman building a house who always appeared so cheerful and merry, regardless of the circumstances surrounding him, that it was finally asked of him the secret of his constant flow of happiness. "It is no secret," he replied, "I have one of the best wives; and, when I go home, she meets me with a smile and a kiss. . . . She has done so many little things through the day to please me that I cannot find it in my heart to speak an unkind word to anyone."

Another husband has described it this way, "When I put my key in the front door lock, I feel that a burden is being lifted from me. When the door closes behind me and I know I am inside my home, I can throw off the weight of competition. . . . When I hear my wife call from inside 'Hello,' the front door closing behind me has worked a miracle."

Abraham Lincoln said of his home, "Here is my heart, my happiness, my house. Here inside the lighted window is my love, my hope, my life. Peace is my companion on the pathway winding to the threshold."

There can be no doubt that homes are the wellsprings of happiness. If the mother is happy, then the whole family will likely be happy and will make a happy place for themselves in the world. Today, let us be about the business of bringing happiness into our homes. The time to be happy is now. The place to be happy is here. And we can all be as happy as we make up our minds to be.

Let us resolve right now that whether we feel happy or not, we will look as though we are and speak and act so. Let our conversation today in
