[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 528 | General Feature | Violets Are for Remembrance | Carol Mattson]

Violets Are For Remembrance
Carol Mattson

MAY I relate my experience which happened because of my overwhelming success in following the instructions given by Irene Dunlap in her article "Let's Grow African Violets," June 1963.

On the death of my sweet mother November 12, 1961, a dear and thoughtful neighbor presented us with a beautiful, blooming African violet. I gave it all the tender, loving care to which Sister Dunlap referred, until approximately April 1963, when I could see all my efforts were in vain and unless something was done, my plant would not live to continue to be a living tribute to my mother. (The Magazine to which I refer had not yet been received by me.)

I am not one with a green thumb and do not have house plants, but I became attached to this little plant as it was an everyday reminder of my mother, so I wanted desperately to have it live. I took it to a specialist in the raising of African violets, supposing it would be no problem to get a start. After looking sadly at the plant, he remarked, "There's no life left in this plant, why don't you just buy another?" I explained its importance to me and was crushed when he said, "They are just like people, after they get so old, they die, too!"

I had only one plant, and more determined than ever I came home and cut the remaining leaves off and put them in water, hoping to get a start within a month or so, and when I had only one leaf left, my Relief Society Magazine came and opened new avenues on plant culture to me. I followed the instructions on propagation to the letter, as well as I could with what I had left — one leaf!

It has taken many months of tender, loving care, but I am now enjoying the fruits of my labor, and my plant has come into its own, and possibly this week it will blossom. There are several starts which I am going to take off as instructed.

528

FROM THE FIELD

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Minidoka Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presidents Honored at
Visiting Teachers Convention, November 1, 1963

Left to right: May Jones, first president, Minidoka Stake Relief Society (1924-1942); Katherine Barnes (1944-1954); Doris May (1942-1944); Bertha Burch (1954- ).

Sister Burch reports: "We feel that it is quite unusual that in the nearly forty years our stake has been organized, there have been only four presidents. The three former presidents are all living in our stake, and each holds office in her respective ward. At our visiting teachers convention, we paid special honor to our former presidents."

529

JULY 1964

Yakima Stake (Washington), Yakima Ward Singing Mothers Present Program of Christmas Music, December 22, 1963

Front row, left to right: Edith Dyson, Evelyn Smith; Doloris Holden, Margaret Webster; Dorothy Throssell, chorister; Marie Peyton, organist; Edna Dearinger; Jane Wilks; Jean Rude; Barbara Blackhurst; Jeanette Bowman.

Back row, left to right: Lynn Boss; Connie Creek; Olga Parafenis; Mabel Brack; Joan Balholm; Carole Clifton; Luella Howell, President, Yakima Ward
