Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_07_02_SpFt_Victory_Christense.txt) ===
have brought to the anxious household. I think of the pioneer mother's resourcefulness in creating what could not be had otherwise. She improvised, used every resource available, with nothing wasted, that her growing family might be neatly clothed. Curtailment can be a great motivator, stimulating creativity and eventually placing emphasis where it should be, upon the doing, rather than upon merely having. I recall hearing my mother relate many times, and with the light of satisfaction in her eyes, of making her own hats all through her teen years. She would glean the wheat straws from the fields. Then, braiding them into three, four, or even eight strands, would sew them into attractive hats. To the end of his long life, my father could not see any of his six daughters wear a widebrimmed summer hat, without referring to the attractive hats that mother used to make and wear. He would add_ nostalgically, "With drooping brim and flowers and a bow." I think of the pioneer wife concealing from her husband, for he already had burden enough to bear, her loneliness for family and friends back home, who had not been able to see the light of the gospel message. In these days of material abundance and _ uncertain values, I think of the great reserve of inner strength, unconsciously developed by such self-discipline. Victory over the wilderness was more than triumph over land and drought, it was also victory over the wilderness within oneself. Many of 487 those pioneer women must have learned, as all who would be happy must learn, soon or late, that happiness comes from within, and that it can be nourished by small and simple joys. Family solidarity is developed when children are taught, in early youth, to share in essential family projects. It can give them the feeling of being important and needed. I have heard mother tell of making tallow candles each fall for winter use; of cording, spinning and dyeing yarn; of the many pairs of socks she knit, even as a young girl, for her father and brothers. In spite of the need for strict frugality and in spite of much self-denial, pioneer life was not generally somber. It was challenging and vital and faith-promoting. Through thousands of _ stories cherished by descendants of that stalwart vanguard, come vivid pictures of those early days. There was the jolly quilting bee, the corn husking party, the basket-lunch social. There were children making gifts and Christmas tree ornaments from practically Our Pioneer "nothing." There was the indispensable town band, the singing in the parlor, the melodrama presented by "all home talent," for the Church encouraged the development of cultural arts. There were the long winter evenings of listening to father read or of hearing grandmother or Aunt Martha tell, over again, how the gospel message first came to their door. No child could ever forget that. And then there was prayer — the family prayer, more precious than all to remember. It was a long prayer. Sometimes a child wondered if it would ever end. But it was impressive, sincere, and simply stated. It was a prayer of gratitude for the blessing of life, for a more abundant crop, or for rain, or that the neighbor boy had been restored to health, and for each other. I can hear my own father's mellow voice, reaching through the years with these always final words: "'... And help us to remain faithful to the end." Family prayer — what a fitting prelude to sleep and to the challenge of another day! Centenarians Bertha A. Kleinman A Centenary hails you at your journey's ending, Where crystal waves caress a far-flung shore, When you embark beyond the world's contending, To share a haven-refuge evermore. Long have you trudged the endless furrows, tilling The stubborn soil for other hands to reap, Mingling your tears with gracious rain distilling, Prayerful for scanty fare and wearied sleep. Roses—my gardens teem with their abundance, Where feet of yours have trod the rugged space, Yours be the attar of their sky-born fragrance, That wafts like incense at the throne of grace.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_07_08_Lssn_Night_Hill.txt) ===
civic affairs of her community. MRS. JERRIE MOCK became the first woman to fly solo around the world when she set down her single-engine Cessna 108 plane, ''Spirit of Columbus,'' at Port Columbus, Ohio, April 17, 1964. The thirty-eight-year-old housewife was greeted by her husband, Russell Mock, and their three children. The aviatrix, also the first woman to fly the Pacific Ocean solo, logged about 200 hours of flying time, via Bermuda, the Azores, Casablanca, Tripoli, Cairo, Dhahran, Pakistan, India, Thailand, the Philippines, Guam, Wake, and Honolulu — more than 22,858 miles. Joan Merriam Smith became the second aviatrix to circle the globe. She landed her Piper Apache at Oakland Airport May 13th. MRS. RUTH G. VAN CLEVE, a career government attorney, was sworn in on April 16, 1964, as director of the Office of Territories, the first woman to fill such an important post in the United States Department of the Interior. With the Department since 1950, she has given outstanding service as assistant interior solicitor in the Division of Territories, Wildlife, and Parks. DAME SYBIL THORNDYKE, England's beloved older actress, performed in the stellar role in ''Measure for Measure,"' in London, June 15, 1963, at the closing performance of the fabled ''Old Vic'' theater—home of Shakespearean drama for many generations. A picture of Dame Sybil, surrounded by the cast as she made the farewell speech following the final curtain, was shown in various countries at exhibitions honoring the four hundredth anniversary of Shakespeare's birth (April 23, 1564).

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_07_12_Lssn_Alchemy_Fairbairn.txt) ===
RELIEF Society Presidents come in assorted sizes and shapes. Bishops revere them, stake presidents honor them—husbands put up with them. One of the prime requisites for her job is a strong back and a pair of willing hands. She is endlessly toting things like turkeys, boxes—always full—chairs, dishes, trees, casseroles—and occasionally—babies. The trunk of her car rotates between looking like the inside of a supermarket, a moving van, a china closet, a junk collector, and a rag bag. Some Relief Society presidents are weil-organized, some are half-organized, and some just "'play it by ear.'' All end up with approximately the same results. Relief Society presidents probably appreciate their families more than any other women on earth—because their moments are so precious. Each day is a challenge, to accomplish the impossible and still be home in time to meet that 2:45 school bus. All Relief Society presidents are most comfortable on their knees. And few there are who are not on very intimate terms with their Heavenly Father. Discouragement is her greatest enemy. Faith, her best friend. She is qualified for nothing in particular and everything in general. She is part business executive, janitor, teacher, psychologist, speech maker, counselor, cook, and defender. Her chief feminine virtues must be compassion, wisdom, enthusiasm, and courage. Relief Society presidents are a peculiar breed of womanhood. To them, a confidence is a sacred trust, a problem, something that can be overcome. No Relief Society president ever concerns herself with the prestige of her position, she is much too busy. Once in a while, a Relief Society president gets tired, but she never allows it to show. To do so is fatal. Rather, she quietly finds a day off and spends it praying for strength. Her rewards are treasures unperceived by others. These she stores in the very depths of her soul to draw out in quiet moments and enjoy. A sister's humble testimony, a project well done, a witness of renewed faith, a few grateful tears, the touch of a dear hand, the love she has earned from her faithful sisters.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_07_15_Lssn_Her_Fjelsted.txt) ===
Parents are sometimes unrealistic in their expectations of their children's accomplishments. They seem to expect adult accomplishments from them, as indicated by the fact that they exhort them to "be like daddy," or "be a little lady," or "that's a little man," or "that's a little lady." Instead of just "'great expectations,' we sometimes expect too great expectations. It is wise to be realistic and not expect too much from others — adults or children. "Remember they aren't much better than you are," I heard it quipped recently. Greater harmony may be expected in our homes with more tolerance and with realistic expectations. To expect too little of children is unwise, of course. To do things for them because they cannot meet expected adult standards is crippling. How else can they learn, except by doing and by doing at their own level? Expectations, with just a little reach for accomplishment, are the ideal. If Judy can do a satisfactory job of washing the silverware, she may be expected to advance to plates and cups, and if Ray can keep his bed made, he can be expected to vacuum his room and keep it straightened up. Expectations, but not unrealistic or too great expectations, are the desirable goal.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_07_24_GenFt_Acceptance_Irving.txt) ===
Acceptance f life's Problems, With a fy] attempt at solution, INCreases mental and €motiona] Stature. Tayer, our definite link with God, Will, when the time is right Ting calightenment an Inspiration, Through the span of trial and "TTOr, we reach the « Carning to endure and the and our fel]? Progtess of oy OW men. Thus Cternity beckons Oo enefit of Ourselves T Second estate has been fulfilled and Life's demands are strenuous, but Gog', lan told us long ago that they woulg be — thus the Constant challe 8¢ to our exist ce, The deer © of grace employed in Meeting our obligations will determine the sum OF spiritual] Strength and ignity — the Mcreaseq Knowledge and love that we acquire ough our Sacrificial] experience. This wil] be the sence of our earthly Existence added "nto ourselves to endure hrough life eterna] — 4 blessed Privil WHEN One grows old, he rapidly — th at minutes, hours by years. 522 UnderBGG me ra ae mf / Age standin, 7 fi "i jie to So 2 yt —— 7 ° Ph \ = \ Ste ef-s Wen., ' Sy ote ewer Oo. 4 eel! I Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel across the plains with their own outfit, in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance dies at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and, later, they decide to go to San Bernardino, California, with the saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also are in the company, but are separated for - most of the journey after the division of the company. Alfred Quale, who travels with the Blodgetts and Selena, continues an ardent courtship of Selena who appears to enjoy Alfred. Chapter 6 Wirth the heat and discomforts of desert travel behind them, the Lyman company moved on in the last stages of the journey to California. There were new problems, however. The way was rough, tongues and reaches were broken out of the wagons, and stops had to be made for repairs. The timber along their route came in handy many times. The animals were greatly weakened by the long, arduous trip, and sometimes as many as twenty oxen were yoked to a wagon to pull it over a particularly steep place. This, of course, slowed the journey. Near the end of the trip Brother Pratt and his missionary group decided to leave the Lyman group and forge on ahead. He rode back bidding goodbye to all with whom he had traveled thus far. "So you're going on ahead?" Josiah asked, having heard the plan. "The other missionaries and I are anxious to be on our way. Since there is no particular reason for the rest of you to make great haste now and every reason to give your animals a little time to rest and eat, we are moving on in the morning to the Chino Ranch."

"The Lord bless you, Brother Pratt," said Josiah, shaking the 


 hand of this man whose journey had barely begun. "He always does," answered Brother Parley. "Our appointment is to teach the restored gospel to those waiting to hear it in the Islands of the Sea. We must get started with all diligence as soon as possible." "It takes great faith to go, Brother Parley." "It will take great faith to stay in California and build up that part of the Lord's vineyard," answered Brother Pratt. "It doesn't matter where we labor, Josiah." SeELENA sat nearby, listening. The words had a familiar ring. She had heard them many times before, but they had never struck her with such force. Nauvoo, Great Salt Lake, California, perhaps the locality didn't matter nearly as much as other things which she had been overlooking. Her mind was drawn back to the conversation between this apostle of the Lord and _ her brother-in-law. "Yes, we plan to send a wagon back with supplies as soon as we get to Los Angeles,' Brother Pratt was saying. ""We know how low the food supply is. It seems a bit un-Christian to have such concern for the people far away in the Islands and at the same time fail to take care of our own." Josiah reached down from the wagon and shook hands with the man on horseback. "Good luck to you, Josiah. May we meet again." Elder Pratt touched his hat and nodded slightly toward Belle and Selena. They watched him ride away, knowing they had been in the presence of a great man. 524 The rich grasses were welcomed by the animals, many of whom were so thin that their ribs could be counted, and by their owners, giving them assurance that they would have enough animals to make a beginning when they arrived. And at long last they did. It was June 11, 1851, when the company paused on the edge of the San Bernardino Valley and began looking for a place which would be their permanent settlement. Food supplies were at a low ebb, but the missionary who had gone ahead with Brother Pratt returned with his wagon loaded. The newcomers were as interested in the talk about their entrance into California as they were in the food he had brought. "What are people saying? What is their attitude?' The questions were asked many times, but the missionary understood, knowing their concern as_ to whether the experiences suffered by Church members in Missouri and Illinois were to be repeated. "The news is geod," the missionary told them. 'The feeling seems to be very favorable concerning our making a permanent settlement. The Angelenos are agreeable, even anxious that we do stop in the San Bernardino Valley, thinking that it will provide a buffer for them."' "Buffer?" Josiah replied. "What do they mean?" "Well," replied the missionary, smiling, 'I've heard several of them say this settlement by the Mormons is going to be a big help in keeping the Indians from sweeping in from their desert haunts to plunder their settle- ments. You will be between the Indian territory and them, and they are taking some comfort in this fact." Knowing Selena's constant fear of Indians, Belle watched her but could tell little as to whether the missionary's message was having much effect upon her. Outwardly Selena appeared unmoved by the words, which was just as she wished it to be. She knew well enough that, even though the long journey had been completed successfully without the loss of one human life, there were many other problems besetting the leaders, and her small ones were best kept to herself. As the Lyman company caught up with the advance group, a grove of sycamores offered the first haven of shelter in California to the new settlers. There was plenty of water and feed and the near -starved animals were turned out for their well-earned days of eating and drinking. They must be in a condition to do the farm work that lay ahead. For the leaders there was also the immediate question of where to make the permanent settlement. "Like to come along, Lon?" asked Brother Rich. "We've got to see Williams as soon as possible and settle the details if he's still willing to sell his Chino Ranch." Lon wondered at Brother Rich's statement. He had thought the purchase all but completed. Oh, he well knew there was little money to complete the transaction, but Lon had not anticipated any change in the attitude of the seller, as Brother Rich evidently did. And Brother Rich proved to be entirely correct.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_07_33_Lssn_Literature_Thomas.txt) ===
effective functioning of the Church government depends upon a lay leadership. The responsibility of each 552 member is to be prepared in the divine pattern of leadership. Essential to this is a sense of dedication to the great principles that Christ exemplified in his life. President Rudger Clawson once said, "When the men holding the Priesthood live up to the ideals of the Priesthood, the Church advances rapidly; when they falter in their duties the progress of the Church lags" (Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 111.) The Church organization, as we know it, is the structure or instrument through which the Priesthood or power of God can function, but the proper and effective functioning of Church government depends upon the degree of righteousness of the people involved. No ornamentation of the physical structure of the Church can substitute for this. LEADERSHIP DEFINED Leadership is the key to the successful functioning of the Church organization. <A_ leader is commonly referred to as a person with the ability to visualize, organize, and energize. In plain words, a leader must have vision, be able to see relationships and implications of the course being proposed. He must be able to develop organization sufficient to meet the demands of the objectives involved, and must have the energy to stimulate the members of his group to action. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, the leader must also have the spiritual quality necessary to communicate with divinity and receive divine guidance in his particular assignment. Great leadership in the Church comes from a realization of the possibilities or potential of the calling in relation to what can be done for the membership and the part this work can play in building the kingdom of God on earth. A true leader in the Church does not look upon his assignment or calling as a status symbol, but as a challenge to use his talents in the service of the group. He is motivated by love and dedicated to the task of bringing the group to the goal and purpose of the Church, which is perfection and exaltation. Leadership in the above situation is not based on force or violence. It comes "by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned" (D&C 121:41). This describes the leadership of the Savior. As has been already pointed out, Jesus was a doer of the Word. Leaders in the Church must be members whose lives are consistent with the pattern set by Jesus Christ. DECISION AND TRUE VIRTUE People in leadership positions are expected to set the proper example, providing for the members the evidence of the effectiveness of the principles of the gospel in daily living. Nevertheless, each person is responsible for the decisions he makes in relation to divine counsel. In every human contact, in business, in recreation, in school, family, or Church, the rules of right living must be the same. Decisions are made on the basis of the real values in one's standard of living. True virtue is expressed in decision-making which is done on the basis of full knowledge, knowing the right and the LESSON DEPARTMENT wrong and choosing the right. While there may be some variance as to what is right among the different cultures of the world, there can be no question as to what is right and truth in the revelations of God. He is the Author of all that is good and true. As has been pointed out in previous lessons, revelation or divine law is the wisdom or counsel of the Creator given as direction by which man, the creation, can, by his own choice, reach the height of his _possibilities. There are those who argue that right is a matter of interpretation, expediency, or intellectual justification. Too often these arguments are an effort at rationalization to relieve one's mind from criticism of personal behavior. Virtue is not limited to one area of behavior. It applies to all our decision-making where right and wrong are concerned. The pattern of virtue is formed in the numerous small decisions one makes from day to day. THE IMPLICATION OF CHOICE Being confronted with problems is the spice of living. Decision-making is the evidence of the character of the individual. Almost every moment that we are awake we are required to make decisions. The freedom and right to make these decisions by ourselves is a priceless heritage and blessing. To be an accepted member of any group, one's decisions must be controlled, influenced by, or at least in conformity with the values and standards of the group in which he desires membership. One's 


 claim to acceptance in the Church is based on this sound principle. Church standards are the same for all members whether it be in family relations, in activity on a social plane, in dealings in business operations, or in participation in Church opportunities for service. The action of an accepted member of the kingdom must be motivated by love, guided by wisdom, tempered with justice, consideration, and kindness.