[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 516 | General Feature | How to Remodel a Fitted Suit Bonnie | S. Hansen]

How to Remodel a Fitted Suit

[ILLUSTRATION: Two women's suits - one showing a jacket and skirt, the other showing a vest and skirt]

Bonnie S. Hansen

I had such a nice Tattersall plaid suit. The jacket was not worn badly, and when we moved to a much colder climate, my need for winter clothes increased. I had pondered over and over the problem of this fitted jacket, which had shoulder pads and wide shoulder seams.

One day I took a piece of tailor's chalk and started to mark where I would like to change the jacket, and this diagram represents the resulting outline.

I removed all the buttons, sleeves, and collar, and altered the front as illustrated in the diagram.

Now the remodeled new jacket and the altered skirt make a very useful outfit which is quite stylish.

The old skirt needed a slight alteration. It had a 3-inch side vent on each side, and I sewed up these openings. Also, it had to be taken in a little on the hips for a better fit. The top, or weskit, as it turned out to be, was faced with the same material as was used in making a new blouse to go with the outfit. The color used for the blouse and facing matched one of the colors prominent in the plaid. I top-stitched the weskit all around the edges, but it could have been made so that a narrow edge of the facing might be seen on the outside. New buttons in a color to match the facing were used. In the plaid design of my suit, the background color was navy blue, with a small plaid of red and gray, and I used red facing for the weskit, red material for the blouse, and red buttons.

516

"Train Up a Child"

Dorothy Hicks

"Train up a child in the way he should go," the book of Proverbs instructs, "and when he is old, he will not depart therefrom."

My husband and I unwittingly put this instruction to the test recently and found that it, like the other instructions given in the scriptures, really works.

We had occasion to go out early one evening, and left instructions with the baby sitter to put the children to bed. It was late when we returned home, and all three pajama-clad cherubs were snuggled under their blankets, sound asleep.

Peace! It's wonderful! we thought. For once we could get a good night's sleep! Unfortunately, my husband tripped over a chair in the dark and awakened the baby, who had to be quieted with cuddling and a bottle. This accomplished, we again headed for the bedroom and that longed-for good night's sleep.

Just as Morpheus was about to carry us off, a pair of plastic-soled feet came pattering toward our room. They belonged to our three-year-old daughter, who whimpered that she had had a bad dream and wanted to make sure mommy and daddy were home. She was reassured that all was well and was requested to go back to bed.

"But I can't, Mommy," she said. "I haven't said my prayers yet."

There in the darkness, we knelt together to help her thank her Heavenly Father for her blessings and ask His protecting care over her during the night. When the prayer was finished, she pattered back to her bed and fell peacefully asleep.

Her parents knelt a moment longer to thank the Lord for this example of a child's faith, and to request continued guidance in training up this child and her brothers in the way they should go, so that when they are old, they will not depart therefrom.
