The Cover: J State Capitol, Salt Lake City, Utah Transparency by Gordon Warner Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: @ Spinning the Thread of Time Photograph by Leland Van Wagoner Art Layout: @ Dick Scopes IIlustrations: fj Mary Scopes The April Magazine, like all the other issues, is a thing of beauty. I had to sit and ponder the cover picture before dipping inside, for there were the bright red hills of home-——-Utah. The lovely cover of each Magazine holds fascination and invitation to me, and so I go inside for complete reading enjoyment. The first prize story ''Moment of Trust,' by Mary Ek Knowles (January 1964) was excellent. And in April I am happy to see the work of Evelyn Fjeldsted again with her short essay "Springtime Again.'' Her writings possess real music and beauty. Alice Gubler Sabin Yakima, Washington After reading Margaret Russell's article ''Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!"'" in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine, my heart was filled with joy when I thought about the number of sisters in the gospel I have gained since becoming a member of the Church. Being an only child, I never knew the joy of having blood brothers and sisters. But since becoming a member of the Church, I have had that longing fulfilled. For eighteen months I was president of the Kanderau Branch Relief Society. Another sister and I used to travel twenty-two miles each way to attend our meetings. Recently we were made into a dependent branch and my husband is branch president. As yet we do not have an organized Relief Society, so you can guess how much I look forward to receiving my Magazine. Mary Sykes Muir Whakatane, New Zealand I enjoy so very much the beautiful covers and frontispieces of The Relief Society Magazine. They bring back such lovely memories of the places in Utah which were so common to me as a young girl. The picture of the South Fork of the Provo River in the April issue is especially beautiful. Eileen Mecham Cleland Rawlins, Wyoming 482 We enjoyed so much the article "What Does Your Speech Reveal?'' by Myrtle E. Henderson, in the March issue of the Magazine, and we think it would be a big help towards speech improvement if we could have this kind of material regularly. We surely enjoy the Magazine. Ruth Capp Vale, Oregon The Magazine came yesterday, and it is such an excellent collection § of stories, poems, and articles that I want to thank you for myself and all the sisters who read it. The article 'The Family Goes Back to School' (by Elaine Reiser Alder, May 1964) seemed to have been written for me personally, as my husband and I are looking forward to going to Brigham Young University next fall. The poems and stories paid such a beautiful tribute to mothers that every mother should be privileged to read this issue. Sharon R. Hawley Norfolk, Virginia We become as one through the Relief Society Magazine. I have a son serving in New Zealand on a mission. A dear sister there who is a Relief Society president has been very kind to him. In correspondence with me, and telling about their bazaar, she referred me to the September issue of the Magazine and the Monument Park Stake displays. In turn,! Called her attention to the July 1963 Magazine wherein the Mount Ogden Stake bazaar is featured. Again we become as one. Ethel T. Lewis Ogden, Utah I think the Magazine is wonderful and the lesson material superb. I want especially to thank Christine H. Robinson for the effort and research she puts into our visiting teacher messages. I often use excerpts from her messages in my talks before the Parent Teachers Association meetings. Rayella Richardson Santa Barbara, California Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by