[Vol51 | July 1964 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: 542 Visiting Teacher CMhersissatignee —H. R"oLbeianvseo n Judgment Alone With Me,"]
'/V//l/i 
The  April  Magazine,  like  all  the  other 
issues,  is  a  thing  of  beauty.  I  had  to 
sit  and  ponder  the  cover  picture  before 
dipping  inside,  for  there  were  the 
bright  red  hills  of  home — Utah.  The 
lovely  cover  of  each  Magazine  holds 
fascination  and  invitation  to  me,  and 
so  I  go  inside  for  complete  reading 
enjoyment.  The  first  prize  story  "Mo- 
ment of  Trust,'  by  Mary  Ek  Knowles 
(January  1964)  was  excellent.  And  in 
April  I  am  happy  to  see  the  work  of 
Evelyn  Fjeldsted  again  with  her  short 
essay  "Springtime  Again."  Her  writings 
possess  real  music  and  beauty. 
Alice  Gubler  Sabin 
Yakima,  Washington 
After  reading  Margaret  Russell's  ar- 
ticle "Don't  You  Just  Love  Your 
Sisters!"  in  the  March  issue  of  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine,  my  heart  was 
filled  with  joy  when  I  thought  about  the 
number  of  sisters  in  the  gospel  I  have 
gained  since  becoming  a  member  of  the 
Church.  Being  an  only  child,  I  never 
knew  the  joy  of  having  blood  brothers 
and  sisters.  But  since  becoming  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church,  I  have  had  that  long- 
ing fulfilled.  For  eighteen  months  I  was 
president  of  the  Kanderau  Branch  Re- 
lief Society.  Another  sister  and  I  used  to 
travel  twenty-two  miles  each  way  to  at- 
tend our  meetings.  Recently  we  were 
made  into  a  dependent  branch  and  my 
husband  is  branch  president.  As  yet  we 
do  not  have  an  organized  Relief  Society, 
so  you  can  guess  how  much  I  look  for- 
ward to  receiving  my  Magazine. 
Mary  Sykes  Muir 
Whakatane,  New  Zealand 
We  enjoyed  so  much  the  article 
"What  Does  Your  Speech  Reveal?"  by 
Myrtle  E.  Henderson,  in  the  March 
issue  of  the  Magazine,  and  we  think 
it  would  be  a  big  help  towards  speech 
improvement  if  we  could  have  this  kind 
of  material  regularly.  We  surely  enjoy 
the  Magazine. 
Ruth  Capp 
Vale,  Oregon 
The  Magazine  came  yesterday,  and  it 
is  such  an  excellent  collection  of 
stories,  poems,  and  articles  that  I  want 
to  thank  you  for  myself  and  all  the 
sisters  who  read  it.  The  article  "The 
Family  Goes  Back  to  School"  (by 
Elaine  Reiser  Alder,  May  1964)  seemed 
to  have  been  written  for  me  personally, 
as  my  husband  and  I  are  looking  for- 
ward to  going  to  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity next  fall.  The  poems  and  stories 
paid  such  a  beautiful  tribute  to  mothers 
that  every  mother  should  be  privileged 
to  read  this  Issue. 
Sharon  R.  Hawley 
Norfolk,  Virginia 
We  become  as  one  through  the  Re- 
lief Society  Magazine.  I  have  a  son 
serving  in  New  Zealand  on  a  mission. 
A  dear  sister  there  who  is  a  Relief  So- 
ciety president  has  been  very  kind  to 
him.  In  correspondence  with  me,  and 
telling  about  their  bazaar,  she  referred 
me  to  the  September  issue  of  the 
Magazine  and  the  Monument  Park 
Stake  displays.  In  turn,  I  called  her 
attention  to  the  July  1963  Magazine 
wherein  the  Mount  Ogden  Stake  bazaar 
is  featured.  Again  we  become  as  one. 
Ethel  T.  Lewis 
Ogden,  Utah 
I  enjoy  so  very  much  the  beautiful 
covers  and  frontispieces  of  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine.  They  bring  back 
such  lovely  memories  of  the  places  in 
Utah  which  were  so  common  to  me 
as  a  young  girl.  The  picture  of  the 
South  Fork  of  the  Provo  River  in  the 
April  issue  is  especially  beautiful. 
Eileen  Mecham  Cleland 
Rawlins,  Wyoming 
I  think  the  Magazine  is  wonderful  and 
the  lesson  material  superb.  I  want  es- 
pecially to  thank  Christine  H.  Robinson 
for  the  effort  and  research  she  puts  into 
our  visiting  teacher  messages.  I  often 
use  excerpts  from  her  messages  in  my 
talks  before  the  Parent  Teachers  Associ-