[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 517 | General Feature | "Train Up a Child," by | Dorothy Hicks]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Delilah Davis Pike — Her Hobbies Bring Happiness

Delilah Davis Fuller Pike, Salt Lake City, Utah, has made a lifetime hobby of making articles of exquisite handicraft. She is an expert in designing and stitching quilts, and her displays show a discriminating use of color and integration of patterns. She crochets bedspreads, tablecloths, doilies, and edgings in intricate and lovely designs, many of them being her own creations. She has made many decorative pillows and other gift items. At present she is completing a project of making a quilt for each of her five daughters. Much of her work has been contributed to the displays for bazaars in the Eleventh Ward of Grant Stake. She has served as a visiting teacher for more than fifty years. Her home and her garden are beautifully cared for, and she takes special pride in growing roses.

518

The Sego Lily — Flower of the Pioneers
Celia Luce

THE people were hungry. It was early spring in 1848 in Salt Lake Valley. Nearly 2,000 pioneers had very little food and faced starvation. The Indians were hungry, too. They dug thistle roots and the sweet bulb of the sego lily. Hungry pioneers watched them and began digging the sego bulbs, also.

The sego lily was used for food by pioneers in early settlements all over the State. My grandmother, Lorena Washburn Larsen, lived in early days in Manti. In her autobiography she describes how they used to dig the sego bulbs.

"In my childhood days our whole group of children used to go east of town, each carrying a sego digger. It was a piece of wood sharpened on one end, and flat on the other. We would go just east of town and look for segos, which were quite plentiful. When we found them we each went to digging by putting the sharp end of the stick into the ground close beside the sego and pressing down on the flat end of the digger. . . . When the stick was far enough in the ground to suit us, we just pushed it to one side, and up came the segos. Then we ate them. Oh, how we enjoyed hunting them."

In Utah this lovely flower, the State flower, is called the sego lily. In most of the West it is called the mariposa lily. Mariposa means butterfly in Spanish.

Sego or mariposa lilies come in many shades. Utah's state flower has the scientific name of Calochortus nuttallii. Some of the bright lavender or red-orange ones are named Calochortus Kennedyi. Under any name it is a beautiful flower.

519
