[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 536 | Lesson | Theology — The Vision Roy | W. Doxey]

THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants

Lesson 57—The Vision
Elder Roy W. Doxey

(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76:1-49)
For First Meeting, October 1964

Objective: To study the origin of Section 76; its teachings concerning eternal progression; the vision of God and Christ; and the meaning of Satan's victory and his defeat.

INTRODUCTION

Of all the revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning man and, particularly, his destiny, probably none other equals Section 76. In discussing the latter-day books of scripture, President Willard Woodruff made the following statement:

... When I read these solemn, these eternal declarations made through the mouth of Joseph Smith, my heart swells with gratitude and praise to God, my heavenly Father. I consider that the Doctrine and Covenants, our Testament, contains a code of the most solemn, the most Godlike proclamations ever made to the human family. I will refer to the "Vision" alone, as a revelation which gives more light, more truth, and more principle than any revelation contained in any other book we have ever read. It makes plain to our understanding our present condition, where we came from, why we are here, and where we are going to. Any man may know through that revelation what his part and condition will be. For all men know which laws they keep, and the laws which men keep here will determine their position hereafter; they will be preserved by those laws and receive the blessings which belong to them (Journal of Discourses 22:146-147).

On the day this great revelation was received, February 16, 1832, the Prophet wrote his own evaluation of what the Lord had made known to him. The purity of this revelation

... witnesses the fact that that document is a transcript from the records of the eternal world. The sublimity of the ideas; the purity of the language; the scope for action; the continued duration for completion, in order that the heirs of salvation may confess the Lord and bow the knee; the rewards for faithfulness, and the punishments for sins, are so much beyond the narrow-mindedness of men, that every honest man is constrained to exclaim: "It came from God" (DHC 1:252-253).

536

LESSON DEPARTMENT

The foregoing statements suggest to the reader what is in store for him as he reads Section 76. Surely, when one compares the ideas of the post-death life, which were extant in the Prophet's day and which are also present today, with this revelation and related revelations, one must acknowledge that man's uninspired conceptions of the future life were truly narrow and severe. How, actually, is it possible for man to know of the future except from him who knows the future of mankind? This whole problem of why man exists, whether or not there is purpose in life, and man's destiny, has piqued man's curiosity over the ages. There comes to most people at some time in their lives serious consideration of these important questions.

HOW RECEIVED

While Joseph Smith was revising the Bible by inspiration, aided by Sidney Rigdon as scribe, the Lord touched the eyes of their understandings (D&C 76:19) and, in open vision, they beheld the glories of the eternal worlds, and the darkness reigning in the regions of the damned.

The work of "translation" in the gospel of John, fifth chapter, verse 29, was the impetus for the inquiry which brought forth the Lord's answer to their query regarding the resurrection of the hosts of mankind, both good and evil, mentioned in that verse. (Ibid., verse 15.) This revelation brought forth the truth regarding man's destiny. In general, "Christianity" taught that hope for the blessings of heaven was denied those who did not believe in Jesus Christ, and that an everlasting doom awaited the unbeliever regardless of the opportunity or lack of opportunity for acknowledging Christ. Such a belief would raise questions regarding the resurrection of "all" people, rather than a favored few. The flood of truth received through this revelation regarding a resurrection for the "evil" as well as the "good" brought the true gospel's message of hope to the world.

An account of some details concerning the receiving of this revelation is given by Elder Philo Dibble, as follows:

The vision which is recorded in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants was given at the house of "Father Johnson," in Hiram, Ohio, and during the time that Joseph and Sidney were in the spirit and saw the heavens open, there were other men in the room, perhaps twelve, among whom I was one during a part of the time—probably two-thirds of the time.—I saw the glory and felt the power, but did not see the vision.

The events and conversation, while they were seeing what is written (and many things were seen and related that are not written), I will relate as minutely as is necessary.

Joseph would, at intervals, say: "What do I see?" as one might say while looking out the window and beholding what all in the room could not see. Then he would relate what he had seen or what he was looking at. Then Sidney replied, "I see the same." Presently Sidney would say "What do I see?" and would repeat what he had seen or was seeing, and Joseph would reply, "I see the same."

This manner of conversation was repeated at short intervals to the end of the vision, and during the whole time not a word was spoken by any other person. Not a sound nor motion made by anyone but Joseph and Sidney, and it seemed to me that they never moved a joint or limb during the time I was there, which I think was over an hour, and to the end of the vision.

537

JULY 1964

Joseph sat firmly and calmly all the time in the midst of a magnificent glory, but Sidney sat limp and pale, apparently as limber as a rag, observing which, Joseph remarked, smilingly, "Sidney is not used to it as I am" (Juvenile Instructor 27:303-304).

ETERNAL PROGRESSION

The first ten verses of Section 76 reveal the great blessings that are promised the faithful. The revelation opens with the proclamation that beside Jesus Christ there is no Savior. There follows a message of assurance to those who will accept him as their Savior. It is based upon the revealed truth that Jesus is infinite in his knowledge, his ways, and his purposes, which never fail. (Verses 2-3.)

Notwithstanding the Lord God has passed through an earth life as we are now doing, it is true he is the same from eternity to eternity. (Verse 4.) The ultimate destiny of the exalted is eternal progression, reserved for those who "serve me [God] in righteousness and in truth unto the end" (verse 5). As President Joseph Fielding Smith has explained,

From eternity to eternity means from the spirit existence through the probation which we are in, and then back again to the eternal existence which will follow. Surely this is everlasting, for when we receive the resurrection we will never die (Doctrines of Salvation 1:12).

For those who are determined to endure faithfully, there is the promise of increased knowledge concerning God's ways, his purposes, even the hidden things of his kingdom. In this life man may learn many of the mysteries of the kingdom. But even so, he

learns only an infinitesimal amount of what there is to learn.

VISION OF GOD AND CHRIST

Following the reason for receiving the "Vision" (D & C 76:11-18), again the eyes of Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were opened to understand God's glory. Latter-day Saints are the most richly blessed people in all the world. No other people have so much support for their belief in God and his purposes. In addition to the grandeur of the First Vision received in the spring of 1820, this revelation stands as a monument of assurance that men in our generation have received a sight-knowledge of Deity. Surrounding the throne of God were concourses of angels, the sanctified, who were seen to worship him. Then these brethren recorded what has come to be one of the great testimonies of the latter days:

And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives!
For we saw him, even on the right hand of God: and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father—
That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God (verses 22-24).

Joseph Smith was not alone in receiving this testimony. Two men, seeing the same things, give the lie to some claims that the testimonies of Joseph Smith were false, for, as the scriptures say, "In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established" (II Cor. 13:1).

Many things may be learned from this testimony: (1) Joseph

538

LESSON DEPARTMENT

Smith was not a fraud. He subsequently went to a martyr's grave in defense of his knowledge of God and his purposes in the eternities; (2) earth's inhabitants are the begotten sons and daughters of God; (3) not only are we of this earth his children, but also other worlds are inhabited by his spirit offspring; (4) the real basis for the brotherhood of man, which, if accepted, could bring peace and understanding among men, must be founded upon this knowledge; (5) a true understanding of why we should be obedient to gospel principles is discovered in our relationship to God and the purpose of this life.

THE PAST

Section 76 reveals the past as well as the future. (Verses 12-13.) Next in vision these brethren beheld the time when Lucifer rebelled against the Father and the Son and thus became the fallen one. (Verses 25-27.) He is known as the one who sought to take the kingdom from the Father and the Son. (D&C 76:28, 29, 36-38.) His purpose is to overcome those who follow righteousness. Lucifer's efforts are expressed in terms of warfare, even assaults from all quarters— he "encompasseth them round about." (verse 29). The notion that Satan exists only in the minds of men is denied by this revelation. The testimony of the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon is that Lucifer is a real spirit-being whose presence is felt for evil and whose mission is to despoil, lead into degradation, overcome the saints, and, eventually, claim as his own all who will succumb to his enticements. (2 Nephi chapter 28.)

SATAN'S VICTORY—SONS OF PERDITION

Section 76 (verses 30-39) gives the answer to two questions regarding the class known as the sons of perdition. Who are the sons of perdition? What is their fate? Concerning the first question, the revelation says that they have "known" God's power and then, knowingly, deny that power (verse 31).

When one is endowed with the Spirit to know the existence of God, having great understanding of the principles of exaltation, and then denies this knowledge, he sins against the Holy Ghost that opened the heavens to him. This constitutes blasphemy against the Holy Ghost and puts the Savior to open shame. Such a person brings upon himself everlasting condemnation. (Verses 31-35.) Jesus said that all sins might be forgiven, including speaking against him, but to sin against the Holy Ghost was unforgivable. (Matt. 12:31 - 32.) Why is this so? Even though the Son is manifest in a vision or dream, it does not impress the soul as does the testimony of the Holy Ghost. It is Spirit speaking to spirit that gives greater conviction than a vision; therefore, the condemnation is greater. (SMITH, Joseph FIELDING: Improvement Era, July 1955, pp. 494-495.) The Prophet Joseph Smith says of this class:

All sins shall be forgiven, except the sin against the Holy Ghost; for Jesus will save all except the sons of perdition. What must a man do to commit the unpardonable sin? He must receive the Holy Ghost, have the

539

JULY 1964

heavens opened unto him, and know God, and then sin against Him. After a man has sinned against the Holy Ghost, there is no repentance for him. He has got to say that the sun does not shine while he sees it; he has got to deny Jesus Christ when the heavens have been opened unto him, and he has got to deny the plan of salvation with his eyes open to the truth of it; and from that time he begins to be an enemy. This is the case with many apostates of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 358).

It should be noted that when this sin is committed it is done in full knowledge and not in ignorance.

FATE OF SONS OF PERDITION

As already noted, the sons of perdition will never receive forgiveness in this world nor in the world to come. (D&C 76:34.) It should be remembered that the sons of perdition discussed in this lesson are those sons of God who have come to mortality and the unembodied spirits who followed Lucifer in the premortal world. Both of these classes—the mortal sons of perdition and the spirit sons of perdition—suffer the second death, which is complete, or total banishment from God's presence forever. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 24.) Adam became spiritually dead when he sinned, as do we, but the spiritual or second death suffered by the sons of perdition, comes by blasphemy against the Holy Ghost. This penalty brings death to things pertaining unto righteousness. (D&C 29:41.) Repentance is not possible for these persons because they have lost the power of turning from their sins since the atonement of Christ is no longer effective for their salvation.

ALL RESURRECTED

Due to a misunderstanding of Section 76, verses 38 and 39, some have believed that the sons of perdition will not receive their bodies in the resurrection. This belief does not agree, however, with what the Lord has revealed about the resurrection. (Verses 16-17.) The interpretation of verses 38 and 39 of Section 76 is expressed by President George Q. Cannon:

A careful reading of these verses, however, and especially of the preceding paragraphs, will show that the Lord does not, in this language, exclude even the sons of perdition from the resurrection. It is plain that the intention is to refer to them explicitly as the only ones on whom the second death shall have any power "for all the rest shall be brought forth by the resurrection of the dead, through the triumph and the glory of the lamb." This excluded class are the only ones on whom the second death shall have any power, and "the only ones who shall not be redeemed in the due time of the Lord after the sufferings of his wrath" (Juvenile Instructor 35:123, Feb. 15, 1900).

NO GLORY KINGDOM

Latter-day Saints are prone to consider that there will be only three kingdoms after everyone is resurrected, because three degrees of glory are mentioned specifically in the scriptures. (I Cor. 15:40-42.) The Lord has revealed that the place of the sons of perdition is also known as a kingdom, but it is of no glory. (D&C 88:24.)

The exact conditions of that kingdom are unknown. That it is a place of endless duration is clear. No man living can understand the fate of this class because the Lord has said that only those who are partakers of that

540

LESSON DEPARTMENT

punishment will understand its end, width, height, depth, and misery. (Ibid., 76:44-48.) Notice what the Prophet said:

Say to the brothers Hulet and to all others, that the Lord never authorized them to say that the devil, his angels or the sons of perdition, should ever be restored; for their state of destiny was not revealed to man, is not revealed, nor ever shall be revealed, save to those who are made partakers thereof: consequently those who teach this doctrine, have not received it of the Spirit of the Lord. Truly Brother Oliver declared it to be the doctrine of devils. We therefore command that this doctrine be taught no more in Zion (DHC 1:366).

SATAN'S DEFEAT

Despite the fact that there will be few who will become sons of perdition, Satan will have gained a victory over that number. On the other hand, his victory over the vast host of mankind will be only partial, for all of the rest will find some degree of glory in the kingdoms prepared for them. Many will not have realized their full potential as sons and daughters of God, but only a measure of God's honor. The judgment rendered at the time of the resurrection will be just, for it will be according to one's works. (D&C 19:3; 128:8.)

The creeds of men, developed over the centuries without revelation from heaven, have pictured God as banishing the sinner forever in a hell where punishment is endured eternally. This doom was believed to be incurred by the vast majority of mankind. The notion that there were only "heaven" and "hell," without an intermediate state of preparation for immortality or resurrection, gave rise to a doctrine of salvation incompatible with the teach-

ings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The saved were wafted into heaven, while the sinner went to hell, lost forever. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 453.)

THE GOSPEL PLAN

In contradiction to this erroneous and unjust concept of God's justice, the message of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints proclaims the doctrine that our Father in heaven is solicitous for all of his children and has provided the means whereby they may receive, if not all, a part of his glory. This, however, comes only by their placing themselves in accord with divine laws either in mortality or in the spirit world. We learn:

And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us—
That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness;
That through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him:
Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him.
Wherefore, he saves all except them . . . (D&C 76: 40-44).

Questions for Discussion

1. What incident gave rise to the Prophet's inquiry of the Lord which brought forth Section 76?
2. What superior evidence is given in this revelation about the existence of God? Give the contributions to our understanding of God and our relationship to him from Section 76:22-24.
3. What is there in Section 76 to establish that it contains information about the past as well as the future?
4. Discuss: To what degree will Satan's efforts succeed?

541

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Message 57 — "Leave Judgment Alone With Me, For It Is Mine and I Will Repay . . ." (D&C 82:23).

Christine H. Robinson

For First Meeting, October 1964

Objective: To emphasize the importance to us of conscientiously and consistently avoiding the temptation to judge others.

THE tendency to pass quick judgment on others is one of the most common of our human weaknesses. It is so easy to observe the actions of others and to come to quick conclusions regarding their motives and intentions. Consequently, all of us are prone to fall into the error of quick, unqualified and, certainly, unjustified judgments.

This is a human frailty against which we have been frequently warned and about which we should be constantly on guard. As the Lord says, we must leave judgment alone with him, for he alone can know the reasons for human actions and what lies in the human heart.

President McKay in discussing our proneness to judge told the story of "A poor old Frenchwoman who was walking along the banks of the Seine River. She had a threadbare shawl around her shoulders. She stooped and picked up something and put it under her shawl. A policeman a short distance away saw the act. He hurried over to her and said, 'Let me see what you are holding under your shawl.'

"She drew out a piece of glass, saying, 'It is only a broken piece of glass. I picked it up because, perhaps, some barefoot boy might cut his foot on it.'

"What a lesson to the policeman who misjudged her! Yes, I know he was doing his duty, but he thought she was taking something which did not belong to her, when her act reflected the nobility of a great soul" (Pathways to Happiness, page 148).

What a lesson to all of us! How often in observing an action or an attitude on the part of one of our neighbors or friends have we been prone to impute motives and reasons which, because of our lack of full information, are wrong and misguided. Let us remember,

542

LESSON DEPARTMENT

that in our limited knowledge, it is impossible for us to know the circumstances which prompt others' actions. The Lord alone knows the capabilities, the thoughts, the needs and desires, which motivate human action. In the Book of Psalms we read ". . . he [the Lord] hath prepared his throne for judgment. And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness" (Psalms 9:7-8).

The Savior said, "Judge not, that ye be not judged" (Matt. 7:1). The scriptures repeatedly emphasize that by the judgment we mete to others we also shall be judged.

Undoubtedly, the best way to overcome our proneness to judge others is to form the wonderful habit of looking for their good qualities rather than for their faults.

A certain individual had fallen into the habit of criticizing and complaining about an acquaintance with whom he was in close association. In discussing the problem with a friend, he was asked, "Does not your associate have any good qualities?" To which came the reply, "Yes, he is generous to a fault."

This appraisal started him thinking about the man's good qualities. Each time a negative and fault-finding thought entered his mind, he immediately tried to think of a good quality with which to replace it. As a consequence, this approach soon revealed that his associate possessed many fine qualities. It wasn't long before the two became fast friends.

One of the results of fault-finding and attempting to judge others is that it establishes a negative point of view, which clouds our vision and cankers our souls. On the other hand, looking for the good in others is the positive approach, and enhances and manifests the good in our own personalities.

President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. emphasized the importance of leaving judgment to the Lord and of the fact that the Lord judges us with mercy and love. He said:

I have a feeling . . . that when the time comes for passing judgment . . . for every good deed we have done, we shall receive the full reward that it is possible to bestow under the rules and laws governing, and having in mind justice. And I have the further feeling that for every ill thing we do there will be imposed upon us the least penalty that may be bestowed having in mind the principles involved,—eternal justice seasoned with mercy and love (Clark, J. Reuben, Jr.: Conference Report, April 1958, pages 48-49).
