BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
	The incidents copied from my husband's
journal will probably call up many a reminis-
cence in the minds of those who took part in
the scenes that were dotted down during the
journey and sojourn of the Latter-day Saints
in the wilderness. The following he wrote:
	"January 26th. A meeting of the second
company, under H. C. Kimball, was held at
the council house at 10 p.m.. I arose and
read the names of those who joined the com-
pany, also those who had given in a list of
their property. President Young then moved
that Bro. Kimball nominate his own officers,
which he proceeded to do. After reading the
names of those who were elected unanimously,
each named individual spoke, returning their
thanks to the brethren for the honor conferred
upon them—stating their intention to magnify
their office. The captains of fifties were en-
joined to organize their companies and appoint
captains of tens.
	"Afterwards Bro. Kimball spoke at some
length, using the parable of a vessel being
cracked and remoulded into its proper shape
by the hands of the potter. "Every one has got
to take an equal share of the burden of taking
on the poor, etc. I want those who constitute
the officers in my company should act as
fathers in Israel, and accomodate themselves to
the minds and wishes of the people. I feel,
sometimes, as though, like a barrel, I should
burst with care and anxiety for the brethren,
and would like an additional band fastened to
me. There has got to be a pioneer company
to start from here, and those who can stay will
stay, and this to be subject to the decision of
the presidents. Those who stay will remain to
cultivate the ground. It is necessary for
every one to prepare himself with axle trees to
their wagons, etc, inasmuch as there is no tim-
ber for a long way after we leave here."	*	*
Meeting adjourned.
	He speaks of a party, including a part of
the quorum of seventies, which came off at the
council house the same day, commencing at
three o'clock p.m., and continuing till nearly
morning. Another one was held Wednesday
evening by others of the seventies, and on
Thursday evening, the latter, Horace speaks of
attending and most of my father's family.
There were many parties held there during the
winter, and a dancing school was started about
the 8th of February. In all these I had no
participation, being prostrated by sickness
from the middle of January until spring.
	On the 29th Horace mentions a meeting
held at my father's house pursuant to agree-
ment, at 10 a.m. "The first thing taken into
consideration was to appoint a clerk Brother
James Sloan was elected to that office. An-
other thing stated by Bro Kimball was, that
those upon whom the duty principally devolved,

[Column 2]

i e, the Presidency and authority should travel
as nearly together as possible in one company,
in order that everything might be more con-
venient when they were obliged to assemble for
counsel.
	Brother Harrison Burgess came in and stated
that he had a line for Bro. Kimball, which
was the resignation of Bro. R.——of the office 
of captain of fifty. Bro. Kimball gave the
article of resignation to Father Cutler for his
disposal. Father Cutler observed that it
would be at the disposal of the captains of the
first company, where to place his men, and in
what order. Bro. Henry Herriman was elected
to the office of captain, first company. It was
concluded, through Bro. Kimball's suggestion,
to entitle our body "The Second Division of
the camp of Israel.	*	*	He said,
"It makes no difference where we are placed,
whether in the first, second or third company,
and that when he made the nomination of his
officers, he looked for those who would act as
fathers in Israel; and he wished them to treat
this people as a child, and nurse them and be
careful of their feelings." He told the breth-
ren it was their duty to get all the names they
could and just as soon as the hundreds filled
up, that there should be at least thirty men
drawn out of each for pioneers. Bro Kimball
observed that we need not depend on any regu-
lar order till we get organized in fifties, because
there would be draughts upon them for
pioneers, artillery, hunting, etc.
	After the officers had each chosen their cap-
tains of fifties, he says, "Bro. Kimball said,
'In traveling we should generally be governed
by circumstances,' and that he intended to imi-
tate President Young in his order of traveling,
and that it would be a long time before we
would be governed by any definite rule.	*	*
He knew the people were more tired on this
last journey than they ever were before, and
quoted the Carloss Granger story as illustrative
of the idea."
	Bro. Kimball observed that the reason of
Bro. R——'s resignation was that he had a
"calf" in the east, and that was hitched to
$1,500, and he wanted to go back and get it, and
take his family with him, because he is dis-
couraged, etc.; and he (Bro. Kimball) wants to
have the brethren hang on to him by the
prayer of faith. He proposed that we all, with
Father Cutler, bow down before the Lord—
touching the case of Bro. R—that he may be
tied up in his designs to go east and take his
family with him, which was accordingly done,
and the meeting was dismissed.


[first column]﻿
		CORRESPONDENCE.
		Pima, Arizona, March 18th, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	I thought that I would write a few lines to
your little paper, thinking that it might be of
interest to some of my old friends that I have
not seen for a long time.
	I am living on the Gila River, in the far
south.  This is a lovely climate and the peo-
ple are doing well, and the most of them are
striving to live their religion.  The Relief So-
ciety, Mutual and Primary are in a flourishing
condition, and we have a good Sunday and
day school.  There are about one hundred
families in this ward, and there is room for a
great many more.
	Of course we are persecuted by our enemies
for the Gospel’s sake, and some that are keep-
ing the commandments of Go I have had to
leave their homes and cross the line;but we feel
to say, “God forgive them, for they know not
what they do.”
	The health of the people is good, and we
look for a good harvest this year.  The flowers
are in bloom and the fields look green and
everything is flourishing.
[second column]
Hoping, that through these few lines in your
paper, I may hear from some of my old friends,
that I often think have forgotten me, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
