EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	THE Constitutional Convention met as per
adjournment on the 7th inst., in the City Hall
and adjourned without transacting any business, 
until the evening of October 7th, at the same
place.  
	THOUGHTS, Y. L. Conference of Cache Stake, 
Woman's Voice, E. H. B., The Primary and Y. 
L. Conference, Juab Stake, Notes and Comments
after reading the Life of George Eliot, Notes
from Riverdale and other matter, all gladly ac-
cepted, and will appear in due time. 
	THE recent variety entertainments in the
Theatre, for the benefit of the Deseret Hospital, 
proved not only very enjoyable, but quite suc-
cessful. The nett proceeds exceeded three hun-
dred dollars. The Unity Club took charge of
the lunch stand, and managed that part of the
affair admirably. 
	THE announcement of Dr. Maggie C Shipp's 
class in obstetrics appears in this number of
our paper, and in regard to the matter we are
pleased to say that as a lecturer and teacher she
possesses the necessary adaptability as well as
the education essential to the performance of the
duty. She graduated from the Woman's College
in Philadelphia as physician and surgeon, and is
well posted in matters relating to the subjects
she proposes to teach. Since returning home
she has spent the greater part of her time in
teaching in the country, giving lectures and
practicing as opportunity offered. She intends
now to remain in the city, where she will teach, 
lecture and practice in the profession she has
chosen, and for which she seems specially well
adapted. Her lectures here in the city are very
highly spoken of by those who have listened to
her.  As there is great need of able help in this
field of woman's usefulness, we hope and trust
the sisters in the country, as well as here at
home, will avil themselves of the very liberal
terms offered by Dr. Shipp, and prepare them-
selves to fill positions of trust in various parts of
the country, where competent and skillful prac-
titioners are so much needed. Any additional
particulars may be obtained by letter if directed
to her residence as published in the advertise-
ment.


