ST. GEORGE.

	St. George, at this season of the year, pre-
sents a most charming appearance. Let us
stand on an eminence and look down upon it,
that we may fully admire and enjoy the beauti-
ful scene, which is embraced by the warm,
balmy air and bright sunshine of an early
spring day.	
	There lies the little town—not so very small,
either—nestled among the rugged, red sand-
stone and black volcanic hills. The most strik-
ing object of interest is that sacred edifice, the
Temple,whose pure,white walls are such a strik-
ing contrast to the red soil which surrounds it.
Then there is our Tabernacle—built of red
sandstone, beautifully finished and furnished,
surrounded by a white picket fence, which en-
closes a well kept garden of various kinds of
trees, shrubs, flowers and lucern beds.
	Next comes our court house, stores, etc., and
many neat, fine looking, substantial dwellings,
which would do credit to a larger city. There
are the broad streets, whose sidewalks are de-
fined by a stream of running water, fringed on
either side with fresh green grass and a row of
shade trees, cottonwoods predominating.
	Spread out before us is the newly planted
gardens, laid out in straight rows ready for ir-
rigating, with here and there a fresh green
patch of lucern, and the early vegetables look-
ing temptingly suggestive of future feasts.
	The pears and plum trees have put forth
their delicate white blossoms, and the apple,
peach and almond have put on their gayer
garments of pink of different shades; the sweet
scented lilacs, with their wealth of bloom, and
even the lovely currant bush, modestly opening
its tiny yellow petals, as if doubtful of receiv-
ing any notice among so many gay compan-
ions.
	What a beautiful spot to be found in such
a wild, uninviting country, telling in the most
emphatic language of the patience, persever-
ance and industry of its inhabitants, and
above all, of the blessings of God upon their
labors. Showing what the united faith and
works of the Latter-day Saints can accomplish,
and this is but one of many of our thriving
cities and towns in Utah and elsewhere.
	Truly this mission seems to be to beautify,
adorn and redeem the waste places, as well as
to labor for the salvation of their fellow men.
