WEBER COUNTY.
     The Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber County was
held in the Ogden Tabernacle, March 13th,
1885, Prest. Sarah A. Herrick presiding.  Sing-
ing, "Lord, we come before the now." Prayer by
Bishop McQuarrie. Singing, "Once more

[column 2]
we come before Thee."  Minutes of the last
conference were read and approved.
     Prest. Herrick made opening remarks; said,
We do not know what position we may be
called upon to fill; then let us try to prepare
ourselves with useful knowledge.  We should
be charitable one with another, and try to do
good while we dwell on the earth.  Was pleased
to have Sisters Snow, Taylor and Tingey pres-
ent, etc., etc.
     Sister E. R. Snow Smith was always pleased
to meet with the daughters of Zion.  When the
organization of these associations was given it
was by the spirit of prophecy, and was testified
to by those in authority.  Had watched their
growth and advancement ever since.  Wished
the young ladies could understand the position
they hold to-day, that they would prepare for
the positions of the future.  You stand at the
head of all the young ladies of the world,
placed there by God, and have been reserved
by Him to assist in the greatest work ever
given to mankind.  Improvement is our mott,
perfection our aim, and what course must we
take to gain perfection?  That which leads
downward?  No; but each one must form a
well balanced character, cultivate yourselves
mentally and physically to have a strong spirit
and a strong mind, for they cannot work in a
weak and sickly tabernacle.  The Lord says
go to bed early and rise early, that thy bodies
may be strengthened and invigorated, and
what God gives us we should regard.  Next
mental, moral and physical culture will consti-
tute us as near perfection as can be reached on
earth.  The spiritual should be above all, that
which communicates with God, and these consti-
tute a Latter-day Saint, etc.
     Coun. Tingey desired the Spirit of God, that
she might speak so that we would be mutually
benefited.  Gave many excellent and beneficial
instructions to the associations, exhorting the
young ladies to seek the ways of the Lord and
prepare themselves by study and thought that
they might understand the principles of the
Gospel, for it embraces all good.  Closed her
interesting remarks, asking God to help us to
grow up  a united fold in His kingdom.
     Prest. Taylor could see improvement by the
reports.  The organization of these associa-
tions have prompted many to study the princi-
ples of the Gospel.  This is a time when the
disciples of Christ are persecuted as they were
of old, which is a strong testimony of the
truth of the work, for God has said, "If ye are
of the world, the world will love you;" by this
we may know the end draweth nigh.  She
spoke of the privileges we enjoy, and said they
should be used with wisdom.  The paths of
God are paths of pleasantness; then let us per-
form the things of God that Satan may not
gain power over us.
     Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.  Singing,
"How will the Saints rejoice," etc.  Benedic-
tion by Bro. Middleton.
     After noon session:  Opened by singing,
"Sweet is Thy work."  Prayer by Bro. J.
Stanford.  Singing, "The great and glorious
Gospel light."
     Prest. E. S. Taylor gave instructions to the
presidents concerning their duties, the way
they should conduct their exercises, and what
they should consist of.
     Coun. M. H. Tingey exhorted the young sis-
ters to sustain their presidents; to be diligent
in performing their exercises and in building
up the kingdom of God.
     Two of the associations were verbally re-
ported as being in a prosperous condition.  The
presidents made some excellent remarks, and
desired to do all they could to build up the
kingdom of God.
     Sister E. R. Snow Smith gave some brief in-
structions to the secretaries, followed by some
excellent instructions concerning the writing
of essays, articles, etc., and closed her remark

[column 3]
by exhorting all to diligence in the perform-
ance of their duties.
     Sister Taylor presented the names of Sister
M. R. Burton to fill the vacancy of secretary,
and Sister E. M. Stanford as assistant.  These
sisters were unanimously sustained.
     Prest. Herrick referred to the resignations of
Coun. Josephine West and Secretary Rosalthe
Canfield, and in consequence of the faithful
discharge of their duties, had resolved to pre-
sent them with a token of respect.
     Resolutions of Respect to Mrs. Josephine
Richards West:
     Whereas, Our beloved sister, Josephine R.
West,has been called to preside over the Prim-
ary Associations of Weber Stake, which neces-
sarily demands her undivided attention andtime,
and desiring, as she does, to adapt herself more
fully to the capacity of the little ones, thus
making their meetings more interesting and
attractive, she has tendered her resignation as
Coun. to the Central Board of the Y. L. M. I.
A., and,
     Whereas, We feel to regret the loss of her
agreeable company and excellent counsel,
which ever tended to elevate the mind to noble
aims and laudable ambitions in life, still, we
feel to acknowledge the Divine wisdom in se-
lecting one so worthy, whose unblemished
character is well known throughout the coun-
ty, to preside over the all-important Primary
Associations, feeling that the loss of the present
young ladies will be the gain of the future
men and women, therefore, be it
     Resolved, That we tender unto our esteemed
sister our heart-felt thanks for the excellent
method she ever exhibited in leading the mind
on and on in the paths of purity and honor,
assuring her that this is but a faint echo of the
sentiments of the high regard in which she
is held, not only by the Board, but by the young
ladies of the associations.
     Resolved, That she has inspired nobler views
of life, and won the confidence and love of the
young ladies, who will follow her not only to
her home, but to her labors in the Primary As-
sociation, with their earnest prayers that God
will bestow His blessings still more abundantly
upon her, that she may be better able to direct
the little ones to Him, that they may grow up
bright and shining lights in Zion, and be a
people that He will delight to own and bless.
     Resolved, That the above resolutions be pub-
lished in the Ogden Herald and the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and that a copy be presented to
Mrs. West.
SARAH A. HERRICK,
RUTHINDA E. MONCH,
