A REIGN OF PEACE.
	I would ask, Why did we settle in these val-
leys?  Why, as a people, did we ever gather to-
gether and make a settlement anywhere?  I will
answer, It was because we believed there would
be a reign of peace on the earth.
	This peace would be accomplished when all
could see and understand our Savior's mission.
This they will learn by doing His will.  Did not
He say to the Jews, "How oft would I have
gathered you together as a hen gathereth her
chickens under her wings, but ye would not.'
Accordingly you see that none are compelled to
come, but have their agency to act as they
please.
	Again, other reasons are, when the message
caome to prepare for His second coming to earth,
some saw the propriety of this preparation, and
others did not.  Those who did not despised
those who did, and thought us lowilved, con-
tenptibe beings; cried, "False prophet," eetc.,
etc, :Away with them out of the land."  Ac-
cordingly we were glad to settle together, that
we might strengthen each other by our faith in
living more perfectly to the laws of God.  All
the sects believe in part, and are so proud of the
little they cling to, and the attainments they
have arrived at in the arts and sciences, that
they are not humble and cannot give room in
their hearts for the Spirit of God to make them
pleasing in His sight; while many doubt that
there is a God.  They have no time to think of
this; they are so anxious to arrive at the pinnacle
of fame in some grand pursuit.
	But what did the Savior say-"Father, I thank
thee that thou hast hidden these things from
the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them
unto babes.  Even so, Father, for so it seemeth
good in Thy sight."
	We find in all the churches of Christendom
some sincere believers in Christ.  Such will
eventually believe the teachings given in
Matthew v, vi, vii, and believe in applying our
minds to this law, which will prepare us for a
reign of peace on the earth.  Nor is this all, for
it is here written that not one jot or tittle of the
prophecie shall fail.  What have the people to
fear from those who live to these rules and for
this purpose?  But they talk as the wolf did, in
the fable, to the lamb; asking, "How dare you
drink at the stream while I drink?"  The lamb
replied, "The water runs from you down to me,
so I could not roll the stream."  But how many
roll the stream for us? They say there are fam-
ily broils that ought not to exist.  Well, why do
they exist?  It is because they lack the good
spirit they covenant to obey.  They have not
learned their lesson perfectly, which is,"Blessed
are the pure in heart, for they shall see God;
blessed are the peace makers, for they shall be
called the children of God;blessed are the meek,
for they shall inherit the earth;blessed are they
which hunger and thirst after righteousness, for
they shall be filled."
	In keeping these laws in good faith, we feel
benefitted by them.  But are Mormons the only
ones who have family brolls? I think ours are
few in comparison to the mass of the human
family.  Those will disappear as fast as we be-
come Saints, and live by faith.  It is written
"the just shall live by faith"  It is also said that
faith is a gift from God.  Who will He bestow
this gift upon?  Only the just and upright.
None other need apply; until they make up
their minds to be just and true; with the opposite
class God is not pleased, because He could not
bring to pass a reign of peace with such instru-
ments.
	But you ask, If God is your friend why does
He permit you to be so often afflicted by your
enemies?  The only reason I can see is because
we are so dilatory in learning our lessons.  He
has blessed us with this world's goods to a great
extent, taking all things into consideration, and
we are so well pleased and gratified that we
spend too much time in arranging, and almost
worhsip them instead of the giver.
	I think the government can testify that we
have been no disadvantage to them.  How much
we have given into the treasury they very well
know, which has been the result of our prosperi-
ty; and in return have not we been careful to 
ask their permission in any important move we


have made while in times of peace.  When
leaving Nauvoo a letter was sent to the governor
of Iowa, asking permission to pass through their
country, and also to permit those who had not
provisions to stop and earn means to go further.
This you will read, letter and all, in Professor
Tullidge's writings, called Brigham Young's
History, or the Pioneers of Utah.  Also the ac-
count of Bro. Jesse C Little, who want to 
Washington, asking the President's permission
to settle in the far west, or valleys of the moun-
tains.  This was granted by testing us in send-
ing five hundred volunteers to the Mexican war.
The government was good in appointing Prest.
Young to govern our people, and many time in
changing our officers.  Government has no
time or dispositon to look after any one's re-
ligion, but they must maintain morality and
good order.
	This being our motto also, I expect all will be
right when we are perfectly understood by the
rulers of the nation.  I believe they want to do
right by all under their care.  Is not this coun-
try called the asylum for the oppressed?  It has
been, and always will be if they will govern by
our Savior's golden rule; but the preachers of
the sects see their craft is in danger, and fear to
investigate true principles.  Did they know the
result they would fear no danger.  They will
see the day when they will be willing to have a 
reign of peace on the earth; and all who love the
truth will help to make it too.
						M.E. KIMBALL.
March 24th, 1885.


