OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	Bro. Joseph and the brethren in Kirtland
were making efforts to raise volunteers, to go
up to Zion to assist the Church in the west.
They traveled through different branches of
the Church, and stopped at Bro. Nickerson's.
Joseph says: "We called the Church together
and related unto them what had happened to
our brethren in Zion, and opened to them the
prophecies and revelations concerning the
order of the gathering to Zion, and the means
of her redemption; and I prophecied to them,
and the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon
them, and with all readiness the young and
middle aged volunteered for Zion."	*	*
	The great burden that seemed to rest upon
Brother Joseph at this time was the welfare
and deliverance of Zion. His prayers were
offered up to his God continually in behalf of
her children, who were afflicted, and wander-
ing as outcasts from their homes in this boasted
land of freedom.
	While the brethren in Kirtland were trying
to raise a company to go to Missouri to deliver
Zion, the Saints in Zion were writing and re-
ceiving communications from the governor and
other officers of the State to obtain redress for
grievances; but, as the sequel shows, it availed
them nothing.
	Although the Saints, or most of them, had
left Jackson County, persecution did not en-
tirely cease. Joseph, with Zion's camp, was
now on his way to Missouri.
	"Monday, June 16th, 1834. The citizens of
Clay County, to the number of eight hundred
or a thousand, among whom were the brethren,
assembled at the Court House in Liberty
agreeably to the request of Judge Ryland, and
a deputation from Jackson, who presented the
following;
	"Propositions of the people of Jackson County
to the Mormons. The undersigned committee,
being fully authorized by the people of Jack-
son County, hereby propose to the Mormons
that they will buy all the land that the said
Mormons own in the County of Jackson, and
also all the improvements which the said Mor-
mons had on any of the public lands in said
County of Jackson, as they existed before the
first disturbance between the people of Jackson
and the Mormons, and for such as they have
made since.	*	*	(Read in Joseph
Smith's History.)
	On presentation of the foregoing Samuel C.
Owens made a flaming war speech, and Gen,
Doniphan replied on the side of peace. The
Rev. M, Riley, a Baptist Priest, made a hot
speech against the Mormons, and said, "The
Mormons have lived long enough in Clay Co.,
and they must either clear out or be cleared
out." Turnham, the moderater of the meet-
ing, answered in a masterly manner, saying,
"Let us be Republicans; let us honor our coun-
try and not disgrace it like Jackson County.
For God's sake don't disfranchsie or drive
away the Mormons. They are better citizens
than many of the old inhabitants."
	Gen. Doniphan exclaimed, "That's a fact;
and as the Mormons have armed themselves,
if they don't fight they are cowards. I love
to hear that they have brethren coming to thier
assistance. Greater love can no man show

[Column 2]

than he who lays down his life for his breth-
ren."
	At this critical instant the cocking of pistols
and jingle of the implements of death, denoted
desperation. One motioned "adjourn!" another
"go on!" and in the midst of this awful crisis a
person bawled into the door, "A man stabbed."
The mass instantly rushed out to the spot, in
hopes, as some said, that one d—d Mormon
had got killed; but as good luck would have it,
only one Missourian had dirked another. (One
Calbert, a blacksmith, had stabbed one Wales,
who had previously whipped one Mormon
nearly to death, and boasted of whipping many
more.) The wound was dangerous, and as if
the Lord was there, it seemed as though the
occurrence was necessary to break up the meet-
ing without further bloodshed, and gave the
Saints a further chance to consult what would
be most advisable in such a critical instant, and
they immediately penned the following answer
to the propositions from Jackson County, pre-
sented by Owens, etc."
	"Gentlemen: Your proposition for an ad-
justment of the difficulties between the citizens
of Jackson County and the Mormons, is be-
fore us, and as explained to you in the Court
House this day,we are not authorized to say to
you that our brethren will submit to your pro-
posals; but we agree to spread general notice,
and call a meeting of our people in all, the
present week, and lay before you an answer as
soon as Saturday or Monday next. We can
say for ourselves, and in behalf of our breth-
ren, that peace is what we desire, and what we
are disposed to cultivate with all men; and to
effect peace we feel disposed to use all our in-
fluence, as far as would be required at our
hands, as free born citizens of these United
States; and as fears have been expressed that
we designed hostilities against the inhabitants
of Jackson County, we hereby pledge our-
selves to them, and to the hospitable citizens of
Clay County, that we will not, and neither
have designed, as a people, to commence hos-
tilities against the aforsaid citizens of Jackson
County, or any other people."	*	*	*
	It may be be thought, at first view, that the
mob committee made a fair proposition to the
Saints in offering to buy their lands at one
hundred per. cent, in thirty days, and offering
theirs on the same terms; but when it is under-
stood that the mob held possession of a much
larger quantity of land than the Saints, and
that they only offered thirty days for the pay-
ment, having previously robbed them of nearly
everything, it will be readily seen that they
were only making a sham to cover their previ-
ous unlawful conduct; but the tempest of an
immediate conflict seemed to be checked, and
the Jackson mob,to the number of about fifteen,
with Samuel C. Owens and James Campbell at
their head, started for Independance, Jackson
County, to raise an army to meet me (Joseph)
before I could get into Clay County. Campbell
swore, as he adjusted his pistols in his holsters,
"The eagles and turkey buzzards shall eat
my flesh if I do not fix Joe Smith and his
army so that their skins will not hold shucks,
before two days are passed." They went to
the ferry and undertook to cross the Missouri
River, after dusk, and the angel of God saw
fit to sink the boat, about the middle of the
river, and seven out of twelve that attempted
to cross, were drowned. Thus suddenly and
justly went they to their own place by water.
Campbell was among the missing. He floated


down the river some four miles, and lodged
upon a pile of drift wood, where the eagles,
buzzards, ravens, crows and wild animals ate
his, flesh from his bones, to fulfill his own
words, and left him a, horrible looking skeleton
of God's vengeance, which was discovered about
three weeks after by one Mr. Purtle. Owens
saved his life only after floating four miles
down the stream, where he lodged upon an
island, swam off naked about daylight, bor-
rowed a mantle to hide his shame, and slipped
home rather shy of the vengeance of God."
	"We (Zion's camp) were threatened that we
should not pass through Richmond, and it was
reported that an army lay in wait to intercept
us."


