					AGNES CROOKSTON.

		PITTSBURG,, Pa., March 12, 1885.
DEAR SISTER;
	I had intended writing sooner, but while
reading of the persecuting of the Saints it has
borne very heavily upon my mind, and I did
not feel like writing.
	The encroachment scheme is made a power-
ful engine for the destruction of happy homes.
When reading of the image set up to worship
by Nebuchadnezzar, and the people compelled
to worship the image, I wondered if Nebuchad-
nezzar came from Vermont with his encroach-
ment law.  Those who would not worship the
image had to suffer.  What are true-hearted
and loyal Saints placed within a felon’s cell for
to-day? The sequel will answer.  Do not good
men, holding the Holy Priesthood, leave their
peaceful, happy homes, their lovmg wives and
children to lift their warning voice of the im-
pending judgments that hang perpendicular
over the nations, and pointing out a way of
escape; and what follows then? We find, often,
that soon there is a Reverend, a live-blood-
hound, on his track with a mob, to slay him;
and he has to hide and run, sleeping in barns,
or hay mows, or anywhere he can. 	*     *
What tongue can tell the condition the Elders
are placed in while on their heavenly missions!
While I have been meditating on these matters
of late it has weighed very heavy on me; I
could not feel happy when men who are as good
as I, and having all the feelings of a true phil-
antrophist, who know what home, wife and
children are worth, and lay all aside to obey
the mandate of heaven, in the face of persecu-
tion, mobs, fires, swords, bayonets, shot guns,
cold-blooded, cruel, inhuman butchery and
death for the Gospel’s sake.
	How with those at home—those who are
loyal to the Constitution—dragged from their
homes and thrust into a gloomy cell; their
money taken from them without an equivalent
given for the same; and what for?  They don’t
want to worship the image Nebuchadnezzar
has set up, while wives and tender children
have the arm that was their protector and pro-
vider taken away from them and left to need
the comforts of life. What wrong have the
wife and children done that they must suffer?
Do they not suffer in the wrong, or is it justice
to punish innocence?' Surely not.  Do not
these things cry aloud for vengeance?  Has not
the cry of persecution reached the throne?
	The condition of affairs now practiced on
the Saints will merit the sovereign condemna-
tion of every honest man.  Sacrifice and obe-
dience bring forth honor and immortality.
My prayers are for suffering Zion.  I feel my
happiest hours would be to visit my suffering
brethren, and talk with, and try to comfort
them in a felon’s cell.
	May God bless their loyal hearts; ’tis no dis-
grace to be placed there for a righteous cause,
were it not for their sorrowing families, who
are left without a protector, which will harrow
their feelings more than tongue can tell.  I do
pray that the dark clouds may soon pass away,
and those who have taken another lesson in the
school of experience may profit by the same,
and listen to those who hold the Holy Priest-
hood. 		*	*	*	*	*	
						H. M. W.


Errata.—In the last number of the paper,
in the Autobiography of Mrs. Emily D. P.
Young, in the second paragraph of the letter
of W. W. Phelps,the sentence fired their guns,
should have been fixed their guns.


