WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿------------------------------
		MRS. HARRIET GRAY.
			     -------
   The following interesting death notice and
obituary appeared in the P[-]terboro paper, and
we republish it in honor of the aged sister, and
for the sake of her many friends who reside in
Utah.
   In July, 1871, being then 82 years of age, she
paid a visit to Salt Lake City, Utah, and accom-
plished a work for her dead in the house of the
Lord, which she had been very desirous to do
for many years.  On the occasion of her "depart-
ure from Zion," a messenger handed her a poem
in manuscript from the pen of the “Mormon
Poetess,” which was afterwars published at the
request of many friends, in the Pe'erboro,(N. H.
Transcript.) Sister Eliza R Snow, the author,
published it afterwards in her second volume of
poems, and we reproduce it below here, as it
seems very appropriate in connection with the
notice of her demise. —ED. 
   "In this town, January 23, Mrs Harriet Gray, aged 92
years, 5 months and 29 days.”  
				OBITUARY.
				   ---------
   “Yesterday afternoon, at 2 30 o’lock, Mrs. Harriet
Gray, universally known as "Aunt Harriet," died at her
residence on Concord Street, at the ripe old age of 92
years and a half.  Until within a year past, she has al-
ways enjoyed very good health, and retained her mental
faculties to a remarkable degree.  Five months ago she
had a shock of paralysis, from which time she failed
rapidly, and during the last six days of her life was
totally unconscious.  Mrs. Gray was a native and life
long resident of the town.  She was a daughter of the
late Hon. John Scott, and one of a family of nine child-
ren, one of whom, Mrs. Nancy Cobb of Hancock, is still
living.  In 1811 she married William Gray, by whom
she had eleven children.  Four daughters and two sons
survive her, and all but one son were present and minis-
tered to her wants during her last illness.  A few weeks
since, daughters, granddaughters, a great-granddaughter,
and a great-great-granddaughter stood by her bedside—
five generations being thus represented.
   For many years she lived upon the farm now owned
and occupied by her son, James S. Gray, where all her
children were born.  When the youngest child was
two years old, the family removed to the village, where
by untiring industry Aunt Harriet succeeded in lifting
a mortgage from the farm and accumulating a few hun-
dred dollars, after she had reached an age when people
are generally supposed to retire from the active duties
of life.
   Although differing in her religious belief from the
faith commonly held in New England, her upright and
unselfish life was proof that she was actuated by a true
Christian spirit, and the zeal and fidelity with which
she performed her life work are worthy of emulation by
all who know her.
   Funeral from the house tomorrow (Friday) afternoon,
at 1.30 o’clock.”
				   ---------
	"Fare you well, beloved mother:—
	   While your homeward way you wend,
	God, our Father, will protect you
	   Safe from dangers that impend.

	Fare you well, much honored lady,
	   Go in peace and be you blest;
	In the far off East remember
	   Those who loved you in the West.

	In the valleys of the mountains,
	   Hearts to God and country true,


Will, in holiest bonds of friendship
Known on earth, remember you.
When you've filled your earthly mission,
And resign your "dust to dust,”
You will have “abundant entrance
Into mansions of the just."


