R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
		EASTER ARIZONA.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety, the Young Ladies and Primary Associa-
tions was held at Snowflake, March 6th, 1885,
President Emma S. Smith presiding. After
the usual opening exercises the minutes of the
last quarterly conference were read and ap-
proved. Statistical and financial reports were
read, which showed the condition of the
branches to be very good. The verbal reports
of the presidents of the several societies were
very satisfactory, and showed much good had
been accomplished by the sisters during the
quarter.
	Sister Emily Lewis felt we were blessed in
meeting together, and said, The persecution we
are receiving is in fulfillment of prophecy.
	Sister Lucy H. Flake felt desirous to work
for the advancement of the kingdom of God.
	Coun. Lois Hunt said she felt well satisfied
with everything that had been said and done
during the conference. and in her usual cheer-
ful manner felt to bless all the societies,
	Financial and verbal reports of the Young
Ladies and Primary Associations were then
given in, showing both to be progressing rapid-
ly in the great work.
	Prest. Emma S. Smith felt well pleased with
the reports of the different wards, and gave
some instructions to the secretaries in regard
to making out reports. Said the persecutions
the Saints recieve will tend to make them live
their religion better. The mothers in Israel
should teach their children to pray as soon as
they are old enough to talk. Hoped we would
live so as to merit the blessings in store for the
faithful.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing. Benediction by Albert Minnerly.
		Della Fish, Stake Secretary.
		St. George Stake.
	The Relief Society and Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association held their
quarterly conference at the Lyceum,St. George,
on the 13th inst., and all felt it to be a time of
rejoicing. The hall was well filled, and the
reports from all the settlements in the stake
were most encouraging. The sisters appear to
be waking up to a sense of their duty, and a
greater union exists between them than in times
past; also a deeper interest is felt in each
other's welfare, and a desire to obey those
principles which have been revealed from the
heavens.
	Words of instruction and counsel were give
by the brethren and sisters who presided, which
we will do well to remember. It was asked
that those sisters in the meeting who were liv-
ing in obedience to the law of the celestial mar-
riage, and also those who were at present not
in  position to practice it, but who honored it
in their hearts, would rise to their feet. Im-
mediatley every sister in the house rose, thus
manifesting their faith in that divine revela-
tion.
	During the last quarter the Society has
been active, both in donating and in minister-
ing to the wants of the needy and the sick,and
the blessings of the Lord has followed their ad-
ministrations.
	The Primary Conference was held on the
14th. There was a good attendance. The
little choir sang sweetly, and the bright and
happy faces of the children showed plainly
that they took an interest in what was said to
them.
	May the Lord bless these Saints of His flock,
and expand their minds, that they may com-
prehend the principles of the Gospel which are
taught them, and also bless all the officers of
these associations with the spirit of their call-
ings, that they may be able to instruct them in
the ways of life and salvation.
			Your's respectfully,
		M. A. G. BAKER, Cor. Secretary.
			BOX ELDER STAKE
	Minutes of the Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake, held March 10th,
1885, in the Tabernacle of Brigham City,
Prest. Harriet Snow presiding. Conference
opened by singing and prayer, reading of
minutes of previous conference, etc.
	Prest. Harriet Snow said, It is hard times,
but so much more do we need to meet together
and exchange thoughts and feelings, to comfort
and build each other up. Encouraged the
sisters to make up useful and ornamental arti-
cles for the fair in June "We should make it
bright and cheerful around us; a happy, cheer-
ful disposition will overcome obstacles, where
one otherwise would droop and be overcome.
	Secretary Mary E. Snow read the reports
from the different wards for the last six
months.
	Sister Hubbard, Prest. of the Relief Society
of Willard, said, I am happy this morning for
the privilege to meet with my sisters. I often
think, for all the teachings we receive from
time to time, how much we need to learn yet.
When I reflect and contemplate on the many
blessings we have and still are enjoying, I feel
to lift my voice in praise to my Father in hea-
ven. Sisters, if we strive to be faithful we
shall be preserved. We go home refreshed
after hearing each other express our sentiments
in humility and faith. The sisters of Willard
are a faithful band of co-workers.
	Miss Fanny Graehl, Treasurer of Stake,
read the accounts for the last six months.
	Sister Terry, Prest. of Relief Society of
Three Mile Creek,said,"I am pleased to be here;
this year has been a peculiar one, both among
us and among the nations. Do we realize yet
all of our duties? We are bound to suffer if
these our sisters who have passed through
great trials and stood faithful. When we are
as well as in our spiritual afffairs, then the Lord
will fight our battles; but we never will be one
until we do. We have many widows in our
ward, and they are liberal with their dona-
tions."
	Sister Albertston, Prest, at Bear River City,
said she could not speak as fluently as the sis-
ters before her on account of the language.
"We have had much sickness in our place this
winter, and a great deal to think about; one
poor sister, in particular, has laid very low for
a long time. We are striving to do all the
good we can."
	Superintendent of the Y. L. M. I. A. Minnie
J. Snow. "I have been thinking while looking
at the faces around me, I wonder how long we
will be permitted to meet in peace together.
Referred to the many who apostatized during
the former trials of the Saints. We who are
here in peace ought to be prayerful and remem-
ber those who are away from their homes."
	Prest. Harriet Snow made a few closing re-
marks. After singing,"The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning," and benediction by Emilia
D. Madsen, conference adjourned until two
o'clock.
	Afternoon Session. After singing prayer
was offered by Sister Terry, Coun. Susannah
Booth, Prest. of Relief Society 1st Ward of
Brigham City, said, "I hope and trust we may
always have the privilege of meeting to-
gether to comfort and cheer each other. We
have the promise if we seek the Lord and live


near unto Him, He will aid and assist us.  There
is a great responsibility resting upon us as
mothers, also as members of these associations.
Praised the Society of the 1st Ward, hoped we
might be able to set a good example before
each other and the world; never felt a stronger
desire than at the present time to press on-
ward and be faithful.
     Secretary M. E. Snow read the condensed
report of the Stake.
     Coun. Mary Stark, Prest 3rd Ward, Brigham
City:  "It is a difficult position to rise before
the elderly sisters of much experience.  Spoke
of the trials of those who strive to serve the
Lord.  Repeated the words of Brigham Young:
"Never teach your daughters against the princi-
ple of celestial marriage, better you had never
been born."  I think it the grandest principle
of our religion.  Encouraged home industry;
thought the reports from the different associa-
tions were wonderful, and a testimony of God's
favor and blessing upon this people."
     "Sister White, from Three Mile Creek:  I
never felt better in my life, never felt more
anxious to live my religion that at present.  I
cannot say I have no trials, I have a few, not
so many as some, but I sometimes think that
trials are good for us.
     Sister Dewey, Prest. of  Relief Society,
Deweyville, felt thankful that she was living
in this day and age, and for the knowledge
that the Lord will sustain us if we are true
and faithful, true to each other and to our-
selves.
     "Sister Harriet Hunsaker, Prest. at Honeyville:
We live in a very important day; the Lord
wants a tried people.  In Honeyville we are
but few in number, but generally a good feel-
ing prevails; it requires an effort on our part
to serve the Lord and carry on this kingdom."
     Sister Keller, Prest. at Mantua:  "I feel will-
ing to do what I can; feel to be united with
those placed over me; consider it a duty to en-
courage and help each other."
     Emilia D. Madsen felt the great necessity of
trusting in the Lord, and praying for the
spirit of discernment, that we might compre-
hend the influences surrounding us.  Spoke of
the great responsibilities of mothers who are
raising a family in these latter days.
     Sister Watkins, Prest. of the 4th Ward,
Brigham City:  "I have been among the sick a
great deal lately; I feel that we should seek to
live near to the Lord daily.  We have  good
sisters in our ward."
     Sec. Mary E. Snow, Prest. of the 2nd Ward,
Brigham City, wished all the sisters to study
the circular, that the reports might be made
properly; believed it much easier for some to
speak than others.
     Patriarch Box:  I have listened with great
attention, and felt the good spirit.  Spoke of
the good results of these organizations; had
been acquainted with them from the beginning.
Those who have young boys should teach them
to honor the Priesthood; those who have a
right to teach.  Spoke of  hard times in
Nauvoo.
	Prest. Harriet Snow felt happy to see the in-
terest manifested in the sisters everywhere, to
live their religion.  May the Lord bless all the
sisters, be faithful and prayerful; never let fear
enter into our hearts; God is mightier than any
nation on earth.
     Singing, "Lord, when iniquities about."
Benediction by Father Box.  Conference ad-
journed for three months.
EMILIE D. MADSEN, Cor. Secretary.

