BY M. J. TANNER.

I have longed from my nest to go forth,
	From my perch in these mountain tops free;
To travel new paths of the earth
	The grandeur and beauty to see.

For lo, there's a voice from the cast,
	Where the glow of the sunrise is seen,
And it reaches these valleys of peace
	Where the myrtle and ivy are green.

And a voice lingers oft in my dreams,
	'Tis the voice of affection and love.
And so sweet is the echo, it seems
	That my heart is quite willing to rove.

As the dove that set forth from the ark,
	Its foot on the mountain to try,
May I ever return to my bark
	With the olive-leaf waving on high.

I have dwelt in these valleys so green,
	And my feet on the mountains have trod;
On the heights and the depths I have seen
	To impress of nature and God.

The strom king has raged fierce and wild,
	And the torrents have foamed in their wrath;
But the sun on the morrow has smiled
	And shone on the desolate path.

And 'tis thus with the passions of man;
	They may rage for awhile fierce and free,
But his spirit will long for a calm,
	Though the track of the tempest we see.

And the strength of his might will go forth,
	And the sound of his voice will be heard,
And his genius will cover the earth,
	Nor shrink at the might of his word.

But oh! there's a power on high,
	Omnipotent, steadfast and true;
The strength of his will to defy,
	And the might of his hand to undo.

I will trust that Omnipotent power,
	Which doeth all things wise and well;
He will guard o'er my steps every hour,
	And hold my frail life with His spell.

I will go from the rock and the glen
	That shadowed the home of my youth,
Where the home of my childhood has been
	In the shelter of honor and truth.

And while in the world I would roam,
	Like a bird that has flown from her nest,
My heart lingers still with my home,
	And I carry its love in my breast;

For I know that wherever I go,
	And whatever my calling may be,
I know that a voice, soft and low,
	Will ever be whispering to me.

And the sound of its echo will last
	When the voice that I list for has fled.
When the heart in its silence has passed
	Through the shadows that close o'er the dead.

Then let me go forth if I will,
	With my feet amid strangers to stray,
My heart will return to you still,
	To the friends that I love, far away

And then when my steps shall return,
	These green, sunny valleys to view,
My heart with emotion will burn,
	And my spirit will ever be true.


[Column 1]

