OUR TRUE POSITION.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel to say, as Paul did, I cannot hold my
peace any longer, but must express my feelings
in regard to this unholy crusade, which is being
inaugurated against this people, or I shall burst
with indignations.
	It seems a difficult matter to exercise the
patience and forbearance that should mark the
conduct of a Saint of God, when they see fam-
ilies torn asunder, faithful, honest, God-fearing
men driven from their homes, leaving helpless
familes, in a great many instances, with no ap-
parent means of providing for themselves, de-
pendent upon the charity of those who are for-
tunate enough, thus far, to escape the shafts of
the enemy.  
	This spirit is particularly pointed at our little
berg at the present time.  Marshals and their
deputies are on the war path serving subpoenas
for the polygamists' trials, which are to come off
at the next term of court, which convenes the
6th of April. Now, to appear before these
courts is not a very desirable position to be
placed in, consequently there are games of hide
and seek being carried on pretty extensively,
and it is not often the seeker finds-they fall in
a great many instances.
	Among those who are the most prominent
and malicious of our persecutors is one Riley
Morse from Filmore an apostate, who is pre-
paring himself to be a son of perdition.
	Some of his relatives are faithful Latter-day
Saints, who are deeply grieved and mortified at
the course he is pursuing.  He seems well
posted in the history of every family in the
place; also who would be the most competent
wilnesses, etc.  He has succeeded in breaking
up his niece's family, causing her husband to
flee from his home, leaving her with a family of
four helpless little ones on her hands, without
any means for support, as he was dependent on
his trade (plastering) for support.  And this is
the condition of affair throughout Utah, if re-
ports are true.
	What a record our persecutors will have to
[---]
meet at the judgment seat of God, when they
will be brought to face the record of the deeds
done in the body.  I often wonder if they ever
think of this, but I suppose they are so blinded
by the evil one that they never consider the
consequence of their wicked acts; but there is  a
God in heaven, and they will then realize to
their sorrow the terrib;e consequences of fight-
ing against God, and against a God fearing po-
ple, who are striving to carry out the commands
[--] Jehovah.  For this we are persecuted; for
this the peace and happiness of the family circle
is broken up and destroyed; for this God fearing,
upright, conscientious men are obliged to leave
their homes and helpless families, or suffer the
alternative of going behind prison bars.  Wives
are forced to appear before courts to testify
against their husbands, children against their
parents, and all for exercising their constiution-
al rights, which guarantees protection to every
person in the exercise of their religion.  But can
we afford to forsake any one principle of our
holy religion?  No; God forbid.  Come life, come
death, let us be firm and steadfast, and cling to
every principle revealed by the God of heaven
for the guidance of His Saints, to prepare them
to meet the Savior.  
	Then let us be true to our brethren and sisters,
true to our religion, and above everything let us
be true to our God, and then He will not forsake
His Saints.  The Lord has said, in one of His
revelations to the Prophet Joseph, "Cursed is
he who lifts his heel against mine anointed, and
shall say he has sinned, when he has not sinned, 
but is obeying my commandment, which I have
commanded him to perform."
						S. M. POMEROY. 
	Mesa City, March 29th, 1885.


