APRIL CONFERENCE IN LOGAN.

	Another General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ has been held; this last time in
Logan, Cache County, where a holy temple has
been erected and dedicated to the Most High.
It seems perfectly proper that the great body of
the Saints should convene there in a general as-
sembly at such a time. In the absence of the
First Presidency of the Church, Apostle Frank-
lin D. Richards presided over the Conference.
The meetings were crowded, large numbers of
people having come from various parts of the
country to attend. The speakers were earnest
and eloquent in their appeals to the people to
live their religion, to trust in God, to maintain
their integrity and work righteousness, to sus-
tain home manufactures and industries and
build up Zion instead of her enemies. A good
degree of the Spirit of the Lord was manifest
through the several days of the Conference.
	During the Conference an Epistle from the
First Presidency of the Church was read, in
which these brethren presented, in strong and
and forcible language, the wrongs under which
this people are suffering at the present time, and
the only safe path to pursue to obtain the
promises held out to the faithful.
	After the Epistle, which seemed to include
and embrace every point in which the people at
the present time are so deeply interested, had
been read, Apostle H. J. Grant offered the follow-
ing resolution:
	"In view of the statement in the Epistle that
we have heard read, that the proportion of the
male members of our Church who are living in
the practice of plural marriage is but little, if
any, more than two percent of the entire mem-
bership of the Church, and the injustice done
to the great majority of this community by the
action of the Federal officials, I move that a
committee be appointed by this Conference to
draft a series of resolutions, and a protest to the
President of the United States, and to the na-
tion, in which the wrongs the people of this
Territory have suffered and are still suffering,
from the tyrannical conduct of Federal officials
shall be set forth specifically and in detail, and
asking in respectful language for the same treat-
ment to which other citizens of the United
States are entitled, and report the same to a
mass meeting which shall be hereafter called."
	The resolution was unanimously adopted, and
the following named persons were nominated by
the President of the Conference to compose the
committee: John T. Caine, Wm. Jennings,
Feram[--]z Little, James Sharp, Heber J. Grant,
John W. Taylor, Orson F. Whitney, John Q.
Cannon, J. F. Wells, Chas. O. Card, Abram
Hatch, Wm. W. Cluff, Willard G. Smith, Lewis
W. Shurtliff, Oliver G. Snow, Thomas G. Web-
ber, Franklin S. Richards, Samuel R. Thnr[---]an,

[Column 2]

Joel Grover, Rees R. Liewellyn, B. H. Roberts
Joseph Kimball.
	The committee have since held a meeting and
sub-committees there appointed are now pre-
paring the resolutions in view of presenting
them to the people in the mass meeting, which
will be called in due time. 
	This seems to be a timely step, for unless
some specific measures are taken to present the
grievances of the people in a proper light to the
President and people of the nation, nothing can
be expected in view of the misrepresentations
and burden of evil and false statements made
by those whose sole occupation seems to be to
traduce, vilify and temporally destroy those who
have striven to build up the waste places and
protect all in their rights and in the enjoyment
of that freedom so dear to all who are entitled
to "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."


