EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Taking it for granted that observations and
reflections respecting the social and moral atti-
tudes of the women of the world will not be
unacceptable from a Mormon boy, who has
ventured into the world to promulgate the
Gospel in pursuance to a call to fulfill a mis-
sion abroad, I feel free to express my views, and
give my reasons for their existence.
	Born and raised in the valleys of Zion, and
as a consequence accustomed to the marital
relations of God's people, I often wondered
how it was possible for the world to infute such
impure motives to my father and mother who
had ever been cautious to teach me the princi-
ples of strictest virtue and integrity. Besides
the authorities, whose recitude and virtue I
knew from my earliest boyhood was impeach-
able, had been denominated lecherous, because
of their family relations. I had read of the
wickedness of the women of the world, and
when defending our marriage system at home,
by comparing situations, I have been frequent-
ly told that I must not believe all I read or
heard, but that when I traveled abroad my
opinions would entirely change.
	The opportunity came, and true my opinions
are somewhat modified, but only to increase
my contempt for those who cry out against my
people.
	At New York I felt somewhat anxious to
make inquiries, for the purpose of learning the
moral status of that city. To a publisher of
wide reputation I remarked, That after rend-
ing such books as the "Secrets of the Great
City," I did not see or hear anything in them
that would offend the most aesthetic individual.
With a good natured smile he wanted to know
how I had been occupying myself in the city,
and remarked that I must go "slumming."
I had never heard the word, or had forgotten it
on further inquiry I learned that it was a fa-
vorite pastime with many to take a guide and
visit at night the slums of the metropolis and
miserable dens of iniquity to be found in
Water St. and other places of carousal. The
gentleman further informed me that sin, in

[Column 2]

New York was so well regulated that no one
needed to be shocked by immoral women; peo-
ple could go where these evils were or stay
away and be perfectly retired.
	Not being able to reconcile myself to such a
course, I sought to visit Blackwell's Island,
notorious for its correctional institutions. Se-
curing a letter of introduction, which enabled
me to acquire reliable information, I set out
for the ferry boat. There were on the boat
sixteen female prisoners. It was the third
boat load, and that morning fifty-five female
prisoners had been conveyed to the house of
correction. The conduct of the officer toward
them, two in particular, somewhat aroused my
sympathies, and I ventured to inquire the rea-
son for such severe discipline. He told me then
that a depraved woman was far more vicious
and more treacherous than a depraved man,
and that his experience had taught him to be
somewhat severe toward them.
	The picture to me was a horrid one, and I
have not enough morbid curiosity to ever want
to see another such. There were in the institu-
tion at the time about eight hundred. The
officer I met on the island was very courteous,
and escorted me through the hospital, where I
beheld the most pitiable objects human concep-
tion is capable of producing. Here I procured
lengthy statistics; so far as they were obtainable
by the board, and as they are at present not
materially different from those published by
Dr. Sanger in his "History of Prostitutes," I
will not quote them here. The doctor re-
marked that 30,000 prostitutes swarmed the
cities of New York and Brooklyn, and the
modified forms of prostitution have sent their
ranifications into the very heart of society. "I
suppose," I remarked, "you could not find a
thousand men in these two cities but what look
upon such a condition of society with perfect
horror, and would be willing to vote for the
banishment of every such woman from the
state." "No doubt," replied the Dr. good na-
turally, "the men are very innocent in the
matter, but I am afraid if the question came
up for a vote it would be laid on the table.
Still there seems to be a growing feeling for
the necessity of such institutions, and more or
less advocacy for their existence under proper
regulations." The moral conditions of woman
have, in past ages of history, been taken as a
social thermometer to determine the virtuous
temperature of society, in which man figures
as an airy, invisible, innocent creature. Con-
tinuing the conversation further, I remarked,
"Of course such conditions and institutions
among women are the best indications we have
of social and family disintegration." "No,"
replied the Dr., "they are of course great in-
dications, but social disintegration in general
and family disintegration in particular, are
best indicated in the tendency to prevent and
destroy offspring. Such conduct is unnatural,
and consequently impure. The physical na-
ture is perverted, and the moral, of course,
must correspond. With these material condi-
tions, unnatural as we know them to be, so
sensitively connecting the moral senses, it is
evident that a new moral code must spring up,
and people's notions of purity, virtue and
aesthetics may, in the next generation, present
an entirely new phase. As long as the laws of
nature are treated as vulgarities, and vulgari-
ties as virtue it is evident that the two must
change their base of operation, and whither
such tactics will drive us, heaven only knows."
	These remarks were impressed more firmly
upon my mind when, in company with an En-
glish gentleman and lady, on our way to Mt.
Vernon. English and American patriots was
the topic of conversation. The lady affirmed
that England never had a better monarch than
Victoria, but that the vulgarity she exhibited
in such a multitude of children was a standing
disgrace to the English people.

[Column 3]

	I could have tumbled into the river, but I
reached England, only to hear the same views
expressed time and again. There is nothing
more certain than that the conception of
morals, as expressed by the Latter-day Saints
and the world are diametrically opposed. To
integrate with the world we not only need to
throw away our marriage system, but throw
away our whole religion. When I have heard
men advocate certain immoral conduct, or de-
fend impure systems, I have often thought of
the anecdote of George Francis Train. He
said he had been educated and brought up by
his grandmother, and that she had taught him
to be strictly truthful and honest; but when he
came to America and saw how American Con-
gressmen did things, he began to wonder if
"grana" hadn't cheated him.
	The fathers and mothers are not cheating
the sons and daughters of Zion, and whatever
the world may say, they would better accept the
wise counsel and moral teaching of their pa-
rents.	J. M. T.


