A PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT.
				[line break]
	On the 4th of March the Primary Associa-
tion of the 5th Ward presented a musical and
dramatic entertainment in the meeting house,
the proceeds of which are to be used for the
benefit of the Association, in purchasing books,
material for work, etc. The programme was
quite extended, and the principal pieces were
rendered by the children themselves. Selections
by the Mutual Glee Club and Tonic Sol-Fa Sing-
ing class, who kindly volunteered their assist-
ance on the occasion made a very pleasing va-
riety in the exercises. The songs and choruses
by the children were given in excellent time,
and with a brightness and crispness that was
especially noticeable, while the recitations by
the little ones deservedly received hearty ap-
plause.
	When all did so well it would seem almost im-
possible to make any distinction, but es-
pecial mention certainly ought to be made of
the dialogue, “The Deacons" by Archie Bu-
chanan and Roy Palmer, the spirit and render-
ing of which were as near perfection as possible,
and also of the "Peek-a boo” song of Effie Palmer,
a tiny miss of four years of age, whose cuteness
gained her a hearty encore. After the musical
portion of the programme was concluded a Fairy
Drama was presented, with Miss Lottie Self as
the Fairy Queenl; Miss Lizzie Palmer, the Genii;
Miss B. Ricketts, the Earth Child and Misses
E. Miller, E. Durrans, Jones, Marsden and
Appleby, as Fairies. The costumes were ap-
propriate and pretty, and the dance of the
fairies at the close with colored lights was as
lovely a scene as any one would wish to wit-
ness.
	The meeting house was crowded, and every
piece was heartily applauded, while a unani-
mous request for a repetition of the entertain-
ment showed the sincere appreciation of the au-
dience.


On the 18th of March the entertainment was
repeated, with a few unimportant changes in
the programme, another large audience greeting
the second appearance of the little ones. It is
very pleasing to see the talents of the children
utilized in this direction, and too much praise
cannot be given to the officers of the Associa-
tion, President E. Clark and her Counselors, to
whose persevering and untiring efforts the suc-
cess of the entertainment is due.
							E. B. F.


