§ | For little things that you may do; § § § § § § CHE) GELS; A Double Barreled Paper-Doll Education By Elsie Talmage Brandley HEN a mother has one child \ \ she may be heard to sigh periodically and murmur, "Whatever should I do with two?" When the next arrives she gets along with the twain nicely, and continues to demand to know whatever she would do with three—and so on. I know whereof I speak, for it happens that my twelve best friends of school days—our 'gang' —are all married, and average several children apiece; and every one wonders how she ever could manage with one more than she now has. What to Do For Six Girls NoO™: as my first child was twins, I began by asking whatever I should do with three, and it was not so long until my panic-stricken inquiry was answered; and I found it almost as simple a matter to feed, bathe, and love three as it had been two. Then the fourth arrived, and the fifth; and then the faithful old bassinet was harboring the sixth— half a dozen girls: but some time ago I ceased asking an imaginary, unresponsive oracle what I should do with more. I found myself too completely occupied, answering treble-voiced questions such as "Mother, what can we do now?" which were tossed at me several times hourly. At first my suggestions were impromptu and casual. "Darling, here is a pencil. You may draw rabbits." Or "Play in the sandbox awhile," or "How would you like to swing?" These delightful ideas were seized upon with avidity, carried out in unbelievably short periods of time, but always followed by the chronic, - "Mother, what shall we do next?" Gradually, after a few years of this, I began to suspect that I was delinquent in this matter. There must be more thought devoted to the activities of my four cherubs— (the fifth still loved the sandpile, and the sixth demanded nothing more than her own adorable toes for entertainment). So I began to search my brain and every book to which I had access, for games and busy work with lasting qualities. Sewing, Hiding Peanuts, Collecting Leaves IRST we tried sewing. It worked beautifully for a week, and then it ceased to be a game. It was like wiping dishes—something that Mother did when she was busy, and thus it became incontestably work. We planned a daily and weekly schedule of things to do; but half the time it did not please some of the girls, and the other half the time it did not please the rest of them and the old refrain of ""Mother, what would be nice for us to do next?" went on with maddening regularity. We hid peanuts all over the yard, and sent the girls in search of them, but every nut had been discovered within a quarter of an hour —even the two in the hose nozzle. I gathered twenty kinds of leaf from plants in the garden, and sent them out to match each one and tell the captain which bush produced which leaf. That game was far more successful. It lasted thirty-five minutes, and the next thing I heard was "Mother, that was fun. Won't you come out and play it with us?" 484 Shades of ironing, vegetables to prepare, and stockings to darn! Imagine a woman with six children taking time to go out and play! But I did play, and I do play; and in between times I have more time for the socks, and the vegetables, and the ironing, and even manage to get some reading done and a few extra stitches in, not to mention a bit of office work. The Game of the Paper Dolls T all came about in a most ordinary way. Racking my brains as usual one summer day, the meniory of a bygone paper-doll drifted through my mind, the 18-inch waists and Merry Widow hats of the ladies undimmed in their glory. I had loved paper-dolls in my little-girlhood; I had spent hours at a time playing with -them; I had not needed frequent and varied suggestions as to what I might do. What if, through the law of heredity, it might be possible that my daughters would find in that pastime the same fascination? O, wondrous vista of freedom and peace, opening up ahead! Perhaps the four of them would spend hours at a time in this pursuit, untroubled as to what they could do next! I flew to town and purchased a fashion book, full of lady paperdolls (which would be the mother) and other paper dolls of all sizes (which were to be her children of allages). Home again I flew, again feverish with enthusiasm, to launch the project which was calculated to provide for me uninterrupted eras of leisure and surcease from planning things to play. Something intuitive made me wait until the psychological moment. No need to stop the current game of tiddley-winks—it would stop itself soon enough;—and in the past they had seemed slightly suspicious of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE activities to which I led them wita much fervor. They thought I must be having guests in the evening, and working up to the ultimatum that they go to bed early. So I bided my time—or their time—and it was twenty minutes before there fell upon my ears the familiar "Mother, we've played seven games of tiddley-winks, and Joyce can't ever get thai in the cup. What shall we do now?" A Piece of Mother-Strategy CALMLY, casually I made reply. " Thave a book of paper dolls, girls. Would you like to play? I used to love it when I was a little girl, and Grandma was my Mother." Relationships were always intriguing. "When we have little girls will you be their Gramma?" "Yes, dear." "And will Grampa?" "Yes, dear." "But they won't have any uncles, cause we are all girls, will they?" Plainly the paper-doll idea was being sidetracked. "Perhaps we may have a little brother some day, who can be their uncle. We'll see. Now shall we look into this paper-doll business? We'll pretend that the faces of the ladies are all the same, and each costume is simply another dress for the same person. For instance, you pick out all the paper dolls which look about twelve years old, and play each one is a dress for your twelve-year old paper-doll child, do you see?" Mother Must Play Too ie sounds fun, Mother, but won't you play with us just at first?" Clearly it was up to me to devote an afternoon to the gentle art of teaching a new game. I could mend Daddy be their PAPER-DOLL the brown coat, clean the ice-chest, wash the honey off the piano keys, sort the laundry and phone about the curtains tomorrow. "All right, I'll play with you. Come on." "Oh, that'll be nice, Mother. We love to play grown-people's games, don't we girls?" Ardent replies in the affirmative. That was the beginning of my education. They liked playing something which had in it enough of merit to interest Mother. The fact that I seemed so engrossed in it, lifted it out of the baby class. I put that down in my mental notebook, with the footnote, 'Never let them suspect that your joy in paper-dolls is in the least feigned.' While this mechanical duty of cutting the dolls out was being discharged, I instructed the enchanted group in the technique of the new and ravishing occupation. Do What Real People Do E will each have a whole family, and have them do all the things that real families do. They all get up in the morning, help with the work, go to school, have parties, play together, and have all sorts of fun. It doesn't matter if all the ladies don't have faces alike; we play they are all mothers. People sometimes look different from other times, you know. All the dresses we aren't using, we'll play are in the clothes closet. Besides the mother, well each have a girl about sixteen, one about fourteen, one ten, one seven, a boy about four, and a baby in long clothes. All the paper dolls which look as though they were about that age we'll have for each one's clothes. Won't it be lovely?" After all were cut out we selected our names. Betty's was a Cannon family, Barbara's a Parry famEDUCATION 485 ily, Norma's a Talmage family, and Joyce's were Smiths. Sherman was - the name I chose, and our homes were units in the design of the living room rug. I began. "Brrr-rr," I trilled, (in behalf of the Sherman alarm clock ) and then speaking for the Mother, "Can it be time to get up? I was having such a lovely sleep that I can scarcely believe that seven o'clock is here. I must hurry and start my little people off for the day. They mustn't be late for school. Every one wants to have a perfect record for attendance and punctuality, so I must do my part." The four daughters caught on at once. Already they were having their paper doll mothers arise and get the machinery of their various domains started for the day, and were finding great relish in doing the talking for all the members. (One nice thing about these paperdoll families is that it is a physical impossibility for more than one to be talking at a time.) I noticed that they were saying almost exactly what I said. That gave me an idea which I jotted down into my notebook. It was this: Help the children to have their paper dolls talk and act as real children should, not as they do. This will help them to cultivate the habits of correct language and actions, which is bound to have an effect on them. Model Table Manners and Etiquette T that time the notebook was in my brain, but since then I have secured a real one, and transferred into it these observations. My paper doll mother continued. "Breakfast is almost ready, Kiddies. Are you ready for it?" "Yes, Mother dear." I replied, voicing the sentiments of my paperdoll children. During the course of the Sher- 486 man breakfast, one or two splendidly. Suggestive remarks were made, (by the doll family, of course). "Mother, how lovely to have prunes again!' And graham toast and cereal is my favorite breakfast." Then my mother expressed herself. "Carol, you make me very happy, for you never put your elbows on the table any more; and Gwen, your hands are so clean they fairly sparkle. Neil, I'm sure that there never was a better behaved boy than you are, for you never put too much in your mouth at once, and you always remember to say 'please' and 'thank you'." The emphasis was painful. Then I began to listen to my real daughters. Each in her own corner was getting her little family launched on the day's activities. I noted with exultation that they were all having model breakfasts—pressing prunes and cereal and graham toast upon the children of their respective families with most fervent enthusiasm, and their several children greeted these offerings with equally ardent expressions of delight. They all appeared overwhelmed at the enormity of the privileges thus accorded them. Habits Gained Through Play I! Was here that the possibilities of this little play began to unfold before my vision. Perhaps I could teach my little daughters little desirable habits and truths via the paper-doll method without subjecting the girls themselves to the unpleasantness of feeling themselves in the limelight. The lives of their paper dolls undoubtedly would firmly impress themselves upon the planners of these lives, and my duty lay clear before me. Plainly I must devote a few afternoons to getting them started along the right paths. And so it began. The children RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of our paper-doll families went to school on time without being reminded, joyously faced spinach, coddled eggs, and apple sauce for lunch, played together after school with nary a word of disagreement, joyously faced beef broth, carrots and. Custard for supper, and before going to bed expressed to their mother their unbounded appreciation of her generosity in providing food, mending clothing, and generally being so sweet and long-suffering, while the paper-doll mother responded with assurances of her happiness in living in a home free from quarreling and selfishness, where every child always remembered to brush teeth, wash hands, brush hair, and hang all clothing neatly in place before retiring, and without being reminded. The first afternoon was a rapturous affair. My kiddies were ecstatic over the new play, and I could see ahead of me flocks of silver linings. Teaching them would be a great pleasure, for in this plan they would not realize that there was teaching going on, and consequently would feel no distaste for the truths being thus subtly instilled. "Mother," they wailed in chorus when I arose, stiff and aching from that corner of the living room which to me will always be the Sherman corner, "must we stop?" "Yes, indeed, for today, but we'll play again tomorrow if you like." Thrilled "goody, goodies" from each attested her interest and gladness. That evening I fancied that they partook of their beef broth, carrots, and custard (the paper doll menu had been planned with malice aforethought) with slightly less disdain than was their custom under those circumstances, but it was a bit too early to be certain. Positive I was, however, that Betty caught her- PAPER-DOLL self in time to refrain from talking with her mouth otherwise engaged, and that 'please' and 'thank you' had suddenly become almost oppressively prominent. * ok K kK x The Play Revealed the Personalities I F it has taught them something, it is but a fraction of what I myself have been taught. In looking back, I marvel at my own stupidity in not foreseeing the possibilities in this direction; for if children need to learn of things from their mother, surely she has much greater need to learn of other things, from them. It began with Betty. I noticed that her paper doll mother invariably expressed her feelings of pleasure with violent hugs and kisses. She talked like this: "Virginia dear, Mother was tickled to death to find the dishes done last night, when she hadn't even asked that you do them. Come to me and get a bear hug!" or "Edith, thank you for putting flowers in Mother's room. I must give you six kisses." Here followed the sound of kisses. At first I attached little significance to these affairs, but gradually it crept into my consciousness that to Betty a demonstration of affection, such as she had her paper doll mother display, meant a great deal. My conscience twinged, for while I have bestowed very tender and motherly caresses o'mornings and at bedtime, I had to confess that it had not gone far beyond: that. I decided to experiment. Each Child So Different pest very afternoon Betty came home from school with spelling and arithmetic papers marked 100%. We were accustomed to putting a dime in her bank for each 100% she scored, but this time EDUCATION 487 I did not mention the dime. "Why, Betty dear, I'm so pleased and proud! I must give you a big kiss!' This I did, throwing rapturous arms about the child. When I let go, she was transfigured. Tears of joy were in her eyes, and her little voice quavered as she replied, 'Mother, ~ you've never done that before, just like that, and I've simply longed for you to." A few days later, in Betty's absence, I accorded Norma the same mark of approval when she won the gold star for punctuality in school. She was unmoved, slightly annoyed, I think. "It's nice of you to be glad over the star, Mother," she said, "but you needn't act like that over it." I was vaguely puzzled. If Norma didn't like that sort of thing, what did she like? What, to Norma, was a real reward? And to Barbara? And to Joyce? To our game of paper dolls I went for answer to my query. It took some little time to get around to it naturally, but little by little, out it came. I found that Barbara always had her paper doll mother promise shopping trips to the children who behaved themselves most pleasingly; Norma's children were - invariably given a choice of an afternoon at the library or a new book of their own; and Joyce's Smith children were plied with bars of milk chocolate. Not just once or twice did these things occur, and I was convinced that the constant repetition was not mere chance. These little girls of mine were too young to go far beyond their own horizons, and more and more sure I became that they were putting into the lives of their paper dolls the spirit and detail which, to them, constituted ideal family life. If rewards could be classified in this way, punishments could too, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE THE FOUR PAPER-DOLL EDUCATORS perhaps—and they had always bothered me. The Dark-Room Penalty Unwise 1% the dark ages the rather indifferent sentence of a half-hour in a dark room alone was passed upon all offenders for all misdemeanors of the medium kind, and it had not proved an unmixed success. Betty had always seemed repentant and tractable afterward, _Barbara and Norma utterly unmoved, while Joyce was reduced to fury, in which she threw all throwable objects, bit everything which could be bitten, and pierced the proceedings with ear-splitting shrieks. I was heartily anxious to obtain any possible enlightenment on this subject, and to this end I introduced an independent paper doll character—a school friend— who tried at all times to egg the others on to mild misdeeds, for which our paper doll mothers had to administer punishment. The paper doll children, I no-, ticed, were punished as follows: Betty's Cannon girl, for eating the pudding prepared for dinner, was put in a room alone for half an hour; Barbara's Mary had _ her new dress and beads confiscated and was reduced to the necessity of wearing her old clothes to Sunday School; Norma's Marion was forbidden to touch a book or magazine for an entire day; and Joyce's Natalie Smith had to forego her dessert for two meals. When all the paper-doll girls, at the instigation of their incorrigible paper school friend, went to the Gypsies to have their fortunes told, they were again put under the ban, and these same forms of punishment persisted. I reported progress to the Head of the House, and, acting upon his counsel and my own conviction, tried them out when next occasion presented itself. Make the Penalty Fit the Girl T worked wonders and still does. Joyce no longer has tantrums— she is as meek as a lamb in the face of the danger of having no dessert. In every case the correction is effective when tried out upon the PAPER-DOLL EDUCATION daughter who tried it out on her paper doll. For hours I could go on recording the findings of this little play of ours; there have been many instructive ideas innocently expressed by these children, which have given their mother a new slant on the workings of the little minds, and many of them have pointed the way toward a new viewpoint. At first this game took a great deal of my time, but now that the first flush of novelty has worn off, and they are all on to the hang of 489 the thing, they are content to let me spread my paper dolls about me and talk for the various members of my family, while I myself darn or sew buttons on. But if the time consumed had been seventy times seven as much, it would have been well worth while; for what doth it profit a mother of six if she keepeth her windows shiny, floors spotless and furniture polished, if she thereby loseth a chance to look into the hearts of her little daughters, and see there a glimpse of the loveliness which has been given into her keeping? Wealth By Pearl Ivie Stanford Eight, six, four, and two; I count my wealth by years— The first a boy, and then a girl; Just-two of each, the dears! Fight and four, my boys add time, - Each year a number more. Six and two, my little. Girls Are bringing up the score. Oh, money is essential For the things we buy, you know; But for investments, nothing's 'quite Like boys and girls to grow! For learning to be happy And learning to love health There's nothing quite like boys and girls By which to measure wealth! CONTENTMENT By Nona H. Brown High perched upon my kitchen stool,. I wash so carefully My dishes, for in his small bed My: son sleeps peacefully. I softly hum beneath my breath A happy little tune. My baby looks so sweet asleep— Oh, dear! I dropped a spoon. He stirs and puckers up his mouth; I. Gently shake his bed, Then quickly stoop and lightly kiss The top of his wee head. His sweet-faced grandma tip-toes in; She smiles and whispers low, "T'm glad he's still asleep, the Pet! Sleep does him good, you know." The floor is swept, the dusting's done; And now the dinner's on. My little son wakes up, and smiles— Another morning's gone. MY GIFT By Nona H.. Brown Tiny son, so close to me, All my heart in joy is dressed. Happiness is mine so sweet,, Dearer than can be expressed. God _ has been so good to me— Thou art'of all blessings best! Baby fingers on my face, Baby form against me pressed, Tiny head against my arm, Baby lips upon my breast, Happiness as keen. As pain— Who, than IJ, can be more blessed!