BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY Hospital Babies By Harold L. Snow T the Latter-day Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City nearly an entire floor is devoted to mothers and babies. All of those babies have to be fed, bathed, put into nice little beds, and tended at all times with the greatest care. If they didn't enjoy that kind of work, taking care of. So many youngsters would be a tedious job for the nurses. It keeps them busy every minute of the day, because they sometimes have from thirty to forty "little bits of heaven"' on their hands. + ae babies, kept most of the day by themselves, thrive in a big, well ventilated room at the north end of the ward. Just before it is time for the youngsters to have their dinners, some of them begin to cry. If the others aren't already awake, after hearing the crying of the first ones, they soon awaken. Already it is time to visit their mothers, so the nurses come along and load about ten babies at a time side by side on a truck, then wheel them down the hall to their respective mothers. While the truck is moving, the babies, enjoying the ride, become very quiet. But when it halts outside one of the doors for the nurse to take one of the children in to its mother, all the others begin to cry again. Upon continuation 0 the journey they all again quiet down. But after all their "tummies" are full and the truck starts back for the baby-room, they are quiet. Even as the truck halts by the various doors, those babies that have. Their places on the truck are perfectly still—_they are contented; and as soon as they are placed into their little beds, they go right off to sleep for several hours until mealtime rolls around again. 7 nurse who is supervisor of that part of the hospital, is there for just one reason: she enjoys that kind of work. She loves every one of those babies; and if one of them cries when it shouldn't, she knows that something is wrong. So she picks the youngster up in her arms, speaking to it with great tenderness and finds out just what is ailing it. Oh we have the dearest baby up here!" she will say; and then she will point out a child that is but a few hours old, really looking to anyone else not a bit different from any other baby so young. But she can tell them all apart, and knows each one of them just as other people can distinguish between grownups. A wonderful thing it is, to be in charge of work so important. MA' people wonder why the babies don't get mixed up, inasmtuch as there are so many of them there together; but that would be next to impossible. Before a babe is placed in the room with the others, its footprint is recorded on a card which is filed away to be compared with another print of the same foot, to be made when the baby leaves the hospital for home. These are just as sure and accurate as are the fingerprints of adults. Besides this, a record of each child is kept in ink on a piece of adhesive tape stuck to the back of the child. At the hospital, therefore, no one need fear losing track of a single one of these interesting and important members of the human family. Editor's Note: This article may be of interest at present. In addi-  tion to taking the baby's footprint, traordinary happening, if indeed it the L. D. S. Hospital takes the could happen at all, where such care thumb-print of the mother on the is taken, if children were exchanged same card. It would be a most exin any way. Mother's Birthday By Samuel G. Clawson Today, my heart is filled with song Which trills and warbles in my throat; Today my heart's a silver sea Which carries tiny silver boats; Today my heart's a tea-rose, bower Amid a fragrant sanctity; My heart is richer than all these Because my life was given me. Today the world is tinged with gold All red and flame and scarlet-flecked; The crickets fiddle in the trees, The world is holiday bedecked; Today my song and joy run rife, | And I am thankful, for I see The happiest birthday of my life Because it gave my life to me. Baby Mine By! Katharine C. McKay When I first pondered on your coming, baby dear, You did not seem a priceless gift to me, A being sent: from God that steadfastly, With tiny hands, would ever draw me near That wonder world, from which you carried here Love, faith and trust, perfect simplicity. But now whene'er your; angel smile I see, Whene'er your tender baby voice attracts my ear I feel my bosom thrill—Oh joy supreme To have you ever near me, to but feel That iyou are always mine, that God does deem Me worthy of his greatest gift. Dear little child, until The ends of time, forever praising Him, In grateful reverence at His feet I'll kneel. Address of Appreciation By President William A. Hyde, of Pocatello Stake Given Sunday, June 22, 1930, after the Death of His Wife, Maria Reddish Hyde (Mrs. Hyde was for ten years the president of the Relief Society of Pocatello Stake. She was born September 3, 1864, near Chesterfield, England, and died June 13, 1930. Her funeral was held June 16, 1930, on the forty-fourth anniversary of her marriage to President Hyde.) Pace with the duty of saying something to the hundreds to whom I cannot speak individually, I take this means of reaching you here today, and perhaps through you, many others who are not present, and whom I cannot otherwise reach. The last ten days have been very sorrowful ones for me, and yet, if such a contradiction be allowed, in a way they have been happy days. Through my experience I have learned much more of life than I had ever known before. I have learned how broad and universally inclusive is the brotherhood of man, for I have felt the friendship of a multitude. As a pilgrim, temporarily meeting with difficulty, hundreds have met me on the way, and not one but that has given me some degree of comfort. Out of this mass of sympathy, who could attempt to ~ choose the best or most satisfying? The iceman on his rounds, who stood with bowed head in the sacred presence; the rich-hearted old gentleman who brought us a dozen sugared doughnuts, early, for our breakfast; the gentle-voiced women who brought the sandwiches and cakes, and those who cooked the splendid meal for our friends who live a hundred miles away, that they might endure their long night ride; and the many who expressed themselves in the universal language of flowers; and those who sang so inspirationally, were all alike showing respect and giving love and comfort. Money values are lost here— this is the golden coinage of the heart. Strong men said to me, "I have not the words to tell you how I feel." What need of words when one can read the mind, for there is a magic communication in the pressure of a hand! I HAD once thought that it was a natural thing to fear and hate Death, but now that I know him better, I think that I may almost come to love him.. He was pictured to me as a stern-faced old man, who wielded his scythe, cutting down without pity. Now I know him to be different. I see him as a strong, silent, majestic angel, with a face of infinite compassion. He turns away his head while he cuts the cord of life, and then he lingers, and with artistic hands, molds the mortal face to the radiant image of the waiting spirit, and then together they depart. He is not the angel of death—he is the angel of life, for now they pass from under the clouds of earth, into the light of eternal day! And Death is a great leveler—he makes all men and women alike before him, and in his presence, if nowhere else, we sense a common humanity. And Death is a great restorer, for tears wash out the dry courses of our hearts, and renew our arid lives. And Death is a great cleanser, for  when a cruel memory brings back thoughtless acts, and inexcusable omissions, he gives us repentance, and our sins are washed away. And Death is a great revealer, for he brings back the past, and unfolds it before us, and we see many little hidden things that we never discerned before, and amidst the trash of our lives we find a jewel now and then. And Death is a great preserver, and keeps as one would keep a priceless gem, all beauty and all excellence, and brings them now to show us. From him we learn again of the great law which reads that virtue, and nobility, and truth, and sweetness are everlasting—they cannot pass away; so we see that in the end, all is truth and beauty. O*XE thing that I have learned these days is that our individual tributes become almost universal. Not in kind, perhaps, but in degree, what was said of the departed may be said of many who heard the words. All in some way may be sacrificing for righteousness sake. All in some way may be pursuing the road she traveled; so of eulogy we may truly say, here is enough and to spare, receive back some that you have given—it is a mantle that the departed cannot use, and it comes to you by right—wear it. He who has been a comforter has now been comforted, and he who comforts now may sometime in like manner receive the comfort of a friend. A" I think of my companion, now I assuredly know, if I never knew before, that "man is not without the woman in the Lord," and that we men of the Priesthood, who have knelt by the altar with these women, ought "to love them with a love that is more than love," for we may come to the place in due time where they will be out of our lives except through a stronger bond than that of earthly covenants. One little message the departed would have left, I am sure, if she could have spoken it. It was the burden of her counsel to me. Said she, in effect, there are many little things to do every day; why wait for big things? They may never come. Why write a book—better write a letter to a missionary. "Of the writing of books there is no end," while of individual ministrations between man and his fellow man there is scarcely a beginning. In her theory, life was made up of little things, little remembrances, little attentions. She was transported almost to heaven when you brought her a rose bud. She wanted to be loved a little all the time, not once in a while with great show, and most women, and men, too, I think, are like that. Is not that the true philosophy, for after all is it not love in the ultimate that we are seeking? Is it not the great end—that we may have perfect love? What we do in the line of our Church duty day after day is only to bring us to the place where we can love our neighbors as ourselves, for upon this, and the first commandment "to love the Lord," "hang all the laws and the prophets." So, my people, companions in the service and in the ministry, today while my heart is warm and tender, I say these things, lest soon in the turmoil of life the fountain of speech be closed to gentle utterance, and such words be denied me.