SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1901.


[Column 1]
SPECIAL CONFERENCE.
RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED.
	Our sisters are doubtless all aware ere
this of the reorganization of the General
Presidency of the Relief Society of the
Church. This became necessary on
account of the demise of the late beloved
President, Sister Zina D. H. Young, who
has held the position of Elect Lady for
thirteen years, having been appointed by
President Wilford Woodruff and sustained
at the April Conference in 1888, being the
third President in order since the Society
was first organized in 1842, when Sister
Emma Smith was elected President, and
afterwards Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith,
who presided for many years, having been
called by President Young before her regu-
lar appointment on June 21, 1880, by
President John Taylor.
	We now have our fourth President and
so far all have been Smiths in the succes-
sion, Emma Smith, Eliza R. S. Smith,
Zina D. H. Young Smith, and now
Bathsheba W. Smith. The three first
were wives of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and Sister Bathsheba of his cousin, George
A. Smith. President Bathsheba W. Smith
was selected by the First Presidency and
Apostles of the Church, in Council, on
Thursday, October 31, 1901 and her
Counselors on Thursday, November 7.
They are Sisters Annie T. Hyde and Ida
Smoot Dusenberry. Sister Emmeline B.
Wells was retained as Secretary and Sister
Clarissa S. Williams chosen Treasurer.
	The General officers of the Relief Society
of the Church in their order are as follows:
	Bathsheba W. Smith, President; Annie
T.Hyde, First Counselor; Ida Smoot
Dusenberry, Second Counselor; Emmeline
B.Wells, Secretary; Clarissa Smith
Williams, Treasurer.
	It is the first occcasion on which the
officers of the Relief Society have been
voted for by the Priesthood in the order of 
Quorums. First, the First Presidency.
Second, the Apostles. Third, Patriarchs.
Fourth, Presidents of Stakes and their
Counselors and High Counselors. Fifth,
High Priests. Sixth, Seventies. Seventh,
Elders. Eighth, Bishops and their Coun-
selors. Ninth, Priests, Teachers and
Deacons (the Lower Priesthood.) Tenth,
all members of the Church, rising to their
feet and raising their right hand,
	The voting, was unanimous in the
affirmative, although in each instance

[Column 2]
successively President Joseph F. Smith,
who officiated called for the negative vote,
and if any were opposed an opportunity
was given to express it.
	It was a very grand and imposing
spectacle to witness, to see quorum after
quorum of the holy priesthood and finally
the whole congregation rise to their feet
and raise the right hand as witness that
they sustain the person or persons in the
position to which they have been called.
	The teaching and instruction given at
this Conference has been of a most impres-
sive character, and will no doubt carry an
influence that will be far-reaching and
tend to strengthen all those who are
engaged in the Latter-day work, both at
home and abroad.
	The speakers during the morning session
were President Joseph F. Smith, President
Anthon H. Lund, President Brigham
Young, Apostle John Henry Smith. The
singing, music and prayers were very
inspiring.
	The afternoon session was almost entirely
occupied with the sustaining of the
authorities of the Church and some other
important matters of business, and at its
close President Smith spoke briefly upon
the sacredness of the duty of the Priesthood
of the Son of God and blessed the people.
	The choir sang an anthem after which
President John R. Winder addressed the
congregation a short time and was followed
by President Smith, who gave some of his
ideas in regard to the obligations and
responsibilities of the First Presidency and
Apostles.
	Apostle Hyrum M. Smith made a few
remarks and the Conference was then
adjourned until next April. The choir
and congregation joined in singing “We
thank.Thee, O God. for a Prophet,” and
the benediction was pronounced by Apostle
A. O. Woodruff.


[Column 1]
THE HAWAIIAN QUEEN.
	The visit to this city of Queen Liliouka-
lani has created considerable interest among
the people, who are, at least a number of
them, well acquainted with Her Majesty and
even though she is not now a sovereign
queen, she is in herself, as President Joseph
F. Smith fittingly remarked in his address at
the reception given in her honor, a queen
among her people and as such they honor
and regard her.
	The Queen has ever been friendly to our
people and we have taken a great interest in
everything connected with her affairs. The
late President George Q. Cannon had a great,
admiration for Her Majesty Lilioukalani, as
also has our present President of the Church,
Joseph F. Smith.
	She is a woman of superior gifts and
accomplishments, fond of music, poetry and
the fine arts and has composed some very
sweet songs and verses. She speaks Eng-
lish remarkably well and her literary attain-
ments have made her conversant with many
languages and the history of many countries.
Her Majesty is remarkably well preserved
and her quiet and dignified manner suits well
the rank in which she was born.
	The reception given at the Bee Hive by a
special committee of which the Hon. Abra-
ham Fernandez was the chairman, was a
brilliant success. The affair was well man-
aged and the spacious parlors of the historic
Bee Hive House were once again made
historically popular by welcoming a queen to
the ever memorable home of Brigham

[Column 2]
Young. In this fact there is a fulfillment of
prophecy, which we ought to remember and
recognize. That “the queens of the earth
should come to Zion,” etc.
	The program opened in the parlors of the
Bee Hive with an address of welcome by
President Joseph F. Smith in which he told
of his first mission to the islands and spoke
most feelingly of the kindness and hospitality
shown him by that generous people and
especially the former queen, since deceased,
who was truly a foster mother to him in his
youth and inexperience while he was study-
ing the language, and indeed throughout his
sojourn in that, far-off land.
	Most of the musical exercises were by the
Hawaiians, who are very fond of this high
art, and the son and daughter of Brother and
Sister Fernandez did much to contribute to
the musical program. Miss Lulu Gates
sang a little Hawaiian song in the native
language which she had once sung when a
child on the islands for the former queen.
	Brother and Sister Gates were at the time
on a mission to the Sandwich Islands.
	Queen Lilioukalani was assisted in receiv-
ing by President Joseph F. Smith and Elder
Henry P. Richards, who stood at her left
hand, and Mrs. Fernandez. The Hon.
Abraham Fernandez made the introductions
in a very happy manner, as each one cor-
dially greeted and gave her welcome, and.
the matter of presentation to Her Majesty
was very happily accomplished, though per-
haps somewhat informal.
	The Queen was most gracious to all who
were presented and with an affability that
betokened rank and dignity. After the
musical part of the program was over the
Hon. Abraham Fernandez responded in be-
half of the Queen in a very happy manner
and the company in greeting each other and
certainly the occasion was proud and hap-
py one, a very delightful entertainment. The
committee are to be congratulated on the
success of their hurried arrangements.


