WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	On Saturday afternoon, November 9,
Mrs. Jacob Bamberger gave a delightful
“At Home” to her dear five hundred
friends. Mrs. Bamberger’s hospitality is
so genuine, and her entertainments so
enjoyable, that one would never miss
going who had ever received her warm
welcome and cordial greeting. She is a
great favorite in society and knows just
how to make the people happy whom she
invites to her home. Her rooms were
elaborately decorated, though in excellent
taste, and the refreshments were choice and
daintily served and the music added great-
ly to the festivities of the afternoon.
	The Thanksgiving Proclamation by the
President of the United States and by the
Governor of our own State were duly issued,
and doubtless were happily conformed to by
the people in the good old fashioned way of
feasting and making merry; and let us hope
also that there was real and true thanksgiv-
ing to our Father in heaven for the peace
and prosperity our land is blest with, and 
while rejoicing in the abundance vouchsafed
on the year that is past, forget not to pray
for the future safety and tranquility of
our homes, and this fair land of liberty, the
asylum for the oppressed of peoples in
all lands.
	There has been some official visits paid to
conferences of the Relief Society Stake
organizations during the past few weeks,
Morgan, Beaver, Tooele, Parowan, Granite,
Jordan, Logan, North Sanpete, and also
Bingham. The sisters who have attended
these conferences are President B. W.
Smith, Counselor Annie T. Hyde, President
Jane S. Richards, Secretary E. B. Wells,
President M. Isabella Horne, Sisters Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson, Lydia D. Alder, Julia C.
Howe, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Harriet Ann
Badger, Margaret A. Caine, Ruthinda E.
Moench.
	Sister Lucy B. Young, who has also been
absent from Utah for over two years has
returned home from her travels. She spent
most of the time in Germany in charge of
her granddaughter, Miss Emma Lucy Gates,
who has been studying music abroad most
of the time in Berlin. Mrs. Young while in
Germany was appointed to preside over the
branches of the Relief Society in that mission
and will be able to give us definite informa-
tion concerning the work of this charitable
organization in that country. She has
greatly enjoyed her sojourn abroad and has
doubtless made good use of her time and
planted some good seed in that far-off land
that will eventually bear fruit. The
Exponent bids Sister Young a loving wel-
come to the city of the Saints where dwell
her loved ones and may she be able to do
much more in the cause of truth and right-
eousness in the future.
	The Daughters of the Revolution at their
meeting, on November 16, had an old-
fashioned New England Thanksgiving

[Column 2]
dinner; roast turkey and cranberry sauce,
baked beans and brown bread, doughnuts
and pumpkin pie with all the usual ad-
juncts, pickles, etc The paper was by
Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith, and was
exceedingly well written and read de-
lightfully. The subject was the geography
of the battles of the Revolution from Lexing-
ton to Yorktown, with many bright pas-
sages, though such a serious matter to be
treated upon. The EXPONENT office, where
the banquet was spread, was decorated
with flags and the colors of the society,
blue and yellow, and blue bowls of yellow
chrysanthemums effectually carried out the
color design. At table the colors prevailed
even in decorating the great bowl of baked
beans.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club cele-
brated its tenth anniversary at the rooms
of the retiring president, Mrs. C. C. R.
Wells, in the Constitution Building, with
choice musical selections, vocal and instru-
metal and character representations of the
ladies of the White House, commencing
with Lady Martha Washington, Abagail
Adams and so on, down to Mrs. Wm.
McKinley. A brief outline of the work of
the club and what had been accomplished
in entertaining, etc., was given by Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder and refreshments were
served at the close of the entertainment.
The new officers for the ensuing year
were officially installed. They are Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder, president; Mrs. Ella W.
Hyde and Mrs. Grace L. Anderson vice-
presidents Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, correspond-
ing secretary; Mrs. Emma Jensen, record-
ing secretary; Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan,
treasurer.
	The Annual Convention of the Utah
federation of Women’s Clubs was held
in Provo, October 27, 28 and 29, of
this year, Mrs, C. E. Coulter presiding.
The program was a satisfactory one and the
addresses and discussions were calculated to
stimulate the members and all interested in
club work to renewed efforts in the future.
The officers chosen for the ensuing year were
Mrs. Chester E. Coulter (Ogden) president
for the second term; Mrs. E. E. Corfman,
(Provo) vice-president; Mrs. E. M. Bishop,
(Ogden) corresponding secretary; Mrs. Wm.
Iglehart (Salt Lake City) recording secre-
tary Mrs. K. Hilliard, (Ogden) State
organizer; Mrs. W. Scott, (Park City)
treasurer. The Executive Committee are
Mesdames C. E. Coulter, (Ogden); F. D.
Bickford, (Salt Lake City); E. E. Corfman,
(Provo) E. Bischel, (Ogden); C. D.
Moore, (Salt Lake); E. G. Gowans,
(Logan); W. Scott, (Park City); K. Hilli-
ard, (Ogden); W. Konald, M. Ellingsford
and Miss Dougall, (Springville); Mesdames
D. E. Hemphill, S. Simon, G. B. Blakely,
W. W. Riter, C. S. Kinney, J. Cowan, E.
B. Wells, (Salt Lake.)
	Mr. and Mrs. George H. Taggart gave a
studio reception in their handsome and
artistic rooms in the Templeton, on Tues-
day, November 12, from 3 to 5 p. m. The
decorations were very effective, white
chrysanthemums in the reception room,
with ivy and fern leaves in contrast, and
two shades of yellow in the tea room, with
the ivy green and fern leaves. It was a
brilliant affair after the manner of studio
receptions in Paris, and was most delight-
ful. Mrs. Taggart who is a bride of only
about a month, (and of course charming)
was assisted in receiving by Mrs. Sol Siegel

[Column 3]
who is always at her best in society, and in
a studio there is much to interest and
entertain. Mr. Taggart’s pictures are a
great attraction and one could not fail to
enjoy this rare opportunity of seeing in
the best light these fine paintings. Of
course the tea was delicious and refreshing
and the novelty of the affair made it all,the
more attractive. About one hundred and
fifty guests passed in and out and paid their
respects to the well known artist and his
bride.
	Tuesday, October 29, we attended by
invitation the social reunion of the Relief
Society of the Fourteenth Ward in this
city. President Maria W. Wilcox presided
and her counselors, Margaret Y. Taylor
and Elizabeth J. Stevenson, were both
present, also Miss Joan Campbell, the very
efficient secretary, and Mrs. Ella W. Hyde,
the treasurer, with most of the teachers
and members of the Society. This society
is one of the oldest in Utah and has always
been a very prosperous one. On many
occisions special meetings have been held
and distinguished visitors, both brethren
and sisters, have been the honored guests
of the Society. On the occasion mentioned
Bishop George H. Taylor and President
Angus M. Cannon were among the visitors
of the ladies. President B. W. Smith,
Counselor Clara C. Cannon and Aid Julia
C. Howe, of the Salt Lake Stake, also
Sister Elizabeth T. Webb and the writer
were present. The speakers bore strong
testimonies of the truth of the Gospel,
referring to the Relief Society work and
the benefits resulting from it towards
woman’s spiritual cultivation, and urged
the younger women to become members
and take part in the charitable and philan-
thropic efforts for the amelioration of suffer-
ing humanity. The hall was beautifully
decorated and the music both vocal and
instrumental was exceptionally good. The
President and her committee had prepared
light refreshments that were bountifully
served to all present after the close of the
meeting. Such social gatherings strengthen
the union of those whose duties and labors
are of a similar nature, and increase con-
fidence in and love for each other which
must be uplifting to all who participate in
the spirit of fraternity that exists where
the motives are pure and the desire is to
serve God and keep His commandments.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Granite Stske was held on Tuesday, Nov-
ember 12, in Big Cottonwood Ward meet-
ing house, President Emma S. Woodruff
presiding. Her counselors, Mary P.
Young and Katharine H. Brockbank were
on the platform, the secretary, Armeda S.
Young, and treasurer, Maria B. Winder,
were also present. There was a good
attendance of the sisters from the several
wards and excellent reports were given by
the respective presidents of the Relief
Society. Visitors present were General
President Bathsheba W. Smith and her
first counselor, Annie T. Hyde, and
Secretary Emmeline B. Wells and Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt Lake
Stake also Sisters Mary A. Freeze and
Helen W. Woodruff, of the General Board
of the Young Ladies. Brief addresses were
made by each of these sisters during the
conference on subjects relating to the work
and duties of the society, as well as testi-
monies borne to the truth of the Gospel
The musical exercises were excellent


the solos rendered by Mrs. Hull and Miss
Crismon were very enjoyable indeed. A
fine luncheon had been prepared by the
good sisters of the ward Relief Society
under the supervision of President Emily
Stevenson which was partaken of by a
large number, two long tables full, and
others were invited to residences near at
hand and treated to hot dinners and warm
welcomes. The day was pleasant and the
conference spiritual and interesting. Bishop
Casto and Elder Wm. Taylor endorsed
the remarks of the sisters and each of these
brethren spoke a short time.


