LOVING APPRECIATION. 
My Beloved Sisters:
Our "Mother" is at rest, and while the
void her sweet presence filled still yearns
for
“The touch of a vanished hand
And the sound of a voice that is still ”
we will try to prove our devotion to her
sacred memory by living our most holy
religion as she would have us.
I recall the many acts of kindness
bestowed upon me while there with you,
and take this occasion to express my grati-
tude and love to all my kindred and friends
who remembered us as a family and myself
as an individual, who was there without
husband or children. God bless and com-
fort all, is the prayer of your grateful 
sister. 
ZINA YOUNG CARD. 
Cardston, Canada.


[Column 1]
SOUTH WESTERN STATES MISSION.
Minutes of the St. John Relief
Society conference, held at St. John, Sep.
16, 1901.
Meeting called to order by President
Lucy Breckenridge. Singing, “The
Spirit of God.” Prayer was offered by
President James G. Duffin, of the South
Western States mission. Continued by
singing “High on the mountain top a ban-
ner is unfurled.”
Sister Breckenridge told what was being
done by the society, and said that it had
been greatly blessed. They held meetings
every week and had about forty dollars in
the treasury.
President Sarah J. Cannon, of Salt Lake,
a member of the General Board of the
Relief Society, spoke on punctuality and
encouraged the sisters to continue in the
good work. Begin meeting on time, and
do not hold meetings too long. The mem-
bers should be united and have kind words
for each other. We never gain by running
other people down. Teachers should be
urged to visit. Do good as you have oppor-
tunity. If a sister cannot meet, occasional-
ly take the meeting to that member. En-
courage the children to pay tithing,
as well as paying our own personal tithing.
Children should be taught to obey. Make
the home pleasant so the children will
want to be at home. We should thank
our Heavenly Father more than we do for
our blessings. Spoke of the Woman’s
Building that is to be built in Salt Lake
City, and said she would like to have the
name of the St. John Relief Society on the
books as having helped with the construc-
tion of it.
Sister Joanna Miller, one of our teachers
was called to give a report of the St. John
branch of the Relief Society. She felt
well, had visited as much as they were
able. Always found every one feeling well
in the Gospel. Felt better when they
visited. Felt she, in so doing, was attend-
ing more strictly to her duty. Asked
the Lord to bless us all that we might hold out faithful.

[Column 2]
President Jas. G. Duffiin read a portion
of Section 68, Doctrine and Covenants. It
is right to teach our children the things
that are being done in these days,. that
faith would grow in them. That children
should be baptized at the age of eight
years. They are subject to so many
temptations. We should train them as
they should go. Said our happiness
depends upon them, that if they should
depart from the Lord how dreadful it would
be. This should be impressed on their
minds. We should look at the good and
not the evil. Said the Relief Society is
one of the helps in government. The
society is inspired of the Lord, that His
Spirit might be strengthened. We will be
blessed both in mind and body if we are 
faithful. The Prophet Joseph Smith said
when we became fault-finding, it grieved
the Spirit of the Lord, and He would draw
His Spirit from us, and we should be left
in darkness. We must avoid this. Some
will find fault because the Elders would
talk a little too long. In so doing we
would not be doing right. Said we
should support our officers, also spoke of
the Woman’s Building.
Sister Annie Taylor Hyde, of Salt Lake
City, read an article from the EXPONENT, 
an address written by President Lorenzo
Snow, and read by his son at the exer-
cises given by the Relief Society at Saltair.
Spoke of the Woman’s Building, of raising
the money to give to help erect it, of the
different amounts given. That it is the
little mites the poor give that seem to make
the greater amounts. Explained the
different parts of the building. Spoke of
the education of the children, and of the 
schools in Zion. We could dispel prejudice
by explaining our views to those who are
ignorant. Alluded to marriage, that young
people in these days seem to be living for
enjoyment and not trying to keep God’s
commandments. Referred to the joy de-
rived from doing our duty.
Elder J. M. White said it was a pleasure
to speak to us awhile. That he had not
been interested in Relief Society work in
the past. He was now leaving the mission
field. Thanked all who had been so kind
to him and endorsed all that had been
said.
Closed by singing “Now, let us rejoice.”
Prayer by Elder Joshua Gardner. Ad-
journed until 2 o’clock p. m.
Afternoon meeting, Sister Lucy Brecken-
ridge presiding. Opened by singing “We
thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet.”
Prayer by Elder King. Continued by
singing “Redeemer of Israel.”
The first speaker said she could not give
any instructions in the Relief Society work
but bore a strong testimony of the truth-
fulness of the Gospel. Was thankful to
meet in the St. John conference. Had
enjoyed her labors, knew if she would put
her trust in the Lord all must be well.
Each one must do good for herself. Was
pleased to see us united and was pleased to
see the girls were taking part in the society.
Elder Joshua Gardner had never been
called to speak in a Relief Society meeting
before, but knew if we are led by the
Spirit of the Lord good will be done. Spoke
of his mother, said she was a worker in
the Relief Society, he gained some
knowledge from her. Spoke of the opin-
ion the world had of the sisters of the
Latter-day Saints. Hoped they would
learn of some of the work of the Relief

[Column 3]
Society. Spoke of the young lady mission-
aries, prayed the Lord would bless the
sisters of the society, said they are work-
ing for both temporal and spiritual affairs.
President Sarah J. Cannon was rejoiced
to meet with us again this afternoon.
Urged the sisters to work together, that in
so doing we could do so much more good.
It is necessary that we keep exact records.
We should let our light shine and work to
earn a reward. Was pleased so many kept
the Word of Wisdom. It is important
that we train our children right. We
must watch that no misunderstandings
come between us. Mentioned the celebra-
tions on the 17th of March each year, and
the ten cent membership fee that we should
always remember on that day. We should
be charitable, try to save souls and say
kind words. We must notice the little
things of this life. Should be able to
answer questions on our religion, must
study and know something of the Gospel.
Try to be better each day. Always be
gentle and not take offence easy, but be
careful to live in love and peace. Thought
she would always feel much interested in
the sisters of St. John because she had
been with us.
Sister Amelia Badger favored us with a
very sweet song.
Sister Annie T. Hyde enjoyed the con-
ference so very much. Thought it such a
blsssing to the missionaries. It is a privi-
lege the Lord has given to all to work for
him. Spoke of the first organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and said that this society is to
strengthen the work of the Lord That all
must be pure in heart to become members. 
That Emma Smith was chosen by revela-
tion as the first leader. Read a portion
from the Doctrine and Covenants, also read
some selections, and said what a grand
work we were in. Should not be gloomy
but be cheerful, should not miss our meet-
ings if it could be helped. The sisters of the
first Relief Society helped the sick and when
they were driven from their homes com-
forted and blessed them. Mentioned how
they used to do when they first went to
Utah. 
Spoke of storing grain for the poor.
That many branches of the soeiety had
their own buildings. Alluded to the
Temple work, how so many poor are helped
in this way. Spoke of the Woman’s
Exchange, of the silk industry and of the
trained nurses, how they were willing to
nurse the poor, as well as rich. How
they furnished bedding and clothing for
the poor. Spoke of the sisters administer-
ing to the sick, if we are pure we will get
what we ask for if it is for our good.
We should always praise the Lord. We
should be blessed if we kept the Word of
Wisdom, should do right ourselves and
not notice our friends. Thought it a good 
idea to read Church works in our meetings.
President Duffiin said we had a very fine
meeting. There had been given a great
many things that would be good to use for
all. Called our attention to some of the
points the sisters had given. Spoke to the
brothers and sisters, of the covenants made
before we were sent here. Gave them
good advice.
Elder J. M. White sang a song, “Mor
mon Boy.”
Meeting closed by singing “Where the:
voice of friendship’s heard. ” Benediction
by Elder O. H. Jeppson. 
