the light, let us try to walk in the light.”
	President Sarah J. Cannon gave some
account of her mission and visit to the
Relief Society branches of the South
Western mission. She reported having
had a splendid time at St. John, Kansas.
She and Sister Hyde, who accompanied
her, were met at the depot when they
arrived and had every attention paid them.
There were quite a number of our faith in
that place, the Mayor of the city was
friendly. The Relief Society sisters needed
instruction and they had told them how to
go about their work and carry on their
meetings. They had gathered up a little
money and sent it by them to the Woman’s
Building. Sisters Cannon and Hyde felt
full of joy that they were permitted to go over
the ground so sacred to our people. There
were three days conferences, one day for the
Relief Society. The young boys who were
there on missions had tears in their eyes
when meeting the sisters, it recalled their
mothers at home and they said, “If you see
my mother or any of my folks tell them
about us.’ We made a flying trip to
Nauvoo between the conferences. The
proprietor at the hotel took us in his car-
riage through the city and pointed out the
old landmarks. He told us that the
Temple well had never been dry. The
people come to it from far and near in
times of drouth, and it furnishes sufficient
to water the cattle as well. He showed us
where the mob had their cannons and
where they fired from upon the people at
the time of the Nauvoo battle; pointed out
the houses of Brigham Young, Heber C.
Kimball and Wilford Woodruff, that are
still standing, also the mansion house, the
residence of Joseph the Prophet, and other
notable places, telling us one was the
house of George Q. Cannon, but we told
him he was only a boy in Nauvoo, it
might have been where his father lived.
There are some well to do people in the
Church in those branches in that South
Western mission, and they want us here to
pray for them. May we all live worthy, is
my prayer. Amen.”
	Sister Annie T. Hyde hoped the Lord
would prompt her, that she might give
the instruction she desired to. She thought
President Duffin taught the boys in the
mission properly, what they should do and
how to conduct themselves. The boys

[Column 2]
that have been sent there are very young
men. Some of them have not much edu-
cation or experience in speaking, but they
do very well indeed under Brother Duffin.
While there we visited one of the largest
manufacturing establishments in Kansas
City, with the manager. We talked with
the women employed there, and they told
us of the prices for work and they were
very low prices indeed. We also
went through the restaurant and took
lunch with the manager. At St. John
they have a meeting house and a hall.
The sisters have made a number of quilts,
we brought one home The missionaries are
well fed in the country, but in Kansas city
one missionary told us he had gone three
days at one time without food. In that
city the Saints have a nice new meeting
house, nicely arranged, but they are wait-
ing and wearying to come to Zion. A
lady where we were stopping told us her
husband was at one time going to raise a
mob to drive out the Mormons. When
Carrie Nation was around this man was
killed, and the murderer flew for his life.
From Jay we went to Kansas City, there
we talked to the young men in one of the
meetings for two hours. We held one or
meetings there with the sisters. They
have comfortable quarters and meeting
rooms, and they go around from house to
bouse. We went from Kansas City over
to Independence, there we saw some of the
Saints and we went to the Josephite
Church, it is a gray stone building. The city
is building up, there are some fine residen-
ces. We saw there the widow of John
E. Page, 83 years old. She thinks that
Zion will be built there, and the pure in
heart will dwell there. In Nauvoo where
we visited we drove over to the old grave-
yard. Saw Emma Smith’s grave, the peo-
ple believe the Prophet is buried there.
We had an enjoyable time, but we scarcely
realize how we are blest here. The Saints
there are praying and living near to the
Lord.
	President Jane S. Richards made the
closing address of the Conference. Sue
said: “We have been listening to quite a
description of the country familiar to us;
and there is always something to remind us
of the Prophet. It was in Nauvoo I first
saw him. It makes one feel strange to
think of him, and then after the times
and times he was taken up and tried and
proved innocent, that he should be killed
at last. We tried to show him our respect
whenever he was with us. It was like
heaven to be in his presence and see him
come again after he had been taken away
and returned again to us. My husband
and myself visited Nauvoo and Carthage.
We wanted to hear what they had to say
before we told them we were Mormons.
They told us a great many things. We
broke a little corner off the jail. The
woman who showed us through asked us if
we would like a piece of the rock. There
is a solemnity in these historic places that
is not very interesting. The Lord has
done so much for us and we are here now
in safety, and the Lord made this country
a refuge for us, and we ought to have great
joy. When we laid down at night we did
not know whether we would be safe, but
President Young said we should never be
driven if we lived our religion. Perhaps I
am not talking right I wanted to talk
about the children, I love to see them nice
and well behaved, and I do fancy we are

[Column 3]
careless about our little children. This is
the last dispensation of the fulness of
times, and we should be devoted to the
Gospel and teach them. We are told a
great deal about our tithing, and we want
to teach it to the children. If I was weak
in the faith, the one thing I would
like would be to have some one take
hold of me and help me. If one gets a
little cold we should be careful of their
feelings. I met a boy the other day whose
parents and grandparents were good Saints.
He was nobody’s darling, and had no one
to go to for a kind word. I set down and
talked to him about what we had passed
through. He felt he had no chance to go
and get baptized. I told him to get him-
self ready, get himself into shape. I hope
and pray that he will, that is Relief Society
work, to help save souls, and we can plead
with each other, and that the Lord may
help us, is my prayer. Amen.”
	The congregation, standing, sang “Lord
dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
	President Jane S. Richards announced
that the conference was adjourned to April,
1902. Benediction, by Sister E. B. Wells.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


