WALKS AROUND CANTERBURY.
(Concluded.)
	The West gate well preserved still 
stands. Here as in other parts the 
sentinel's posts and apertures are to be 
seen. This gate was saved recently by the 
mayor's vote alone, the council agreeing to 
pull it down. Many rooms are here one 
called the Council chamber; and dungeons, 
where unfortunates were cast by those iron 
rulers. A broad bench made of wood, is 
the only article of furniture they contain. 
When they were tired of sitting on them 
they could have them for a bed. Dark 
prisons they were, too, no light only that 
admitted from the door. Out on the roof 
of a portion of it is a tower which ascend-
ing by means of a ladder one reaches the 
top, from whence a flag pole, with the 
Union Jack floating, is to be seen. 
The Roman city it seems did not extend 
west far beyond this arm of the stone on 
which we now gaze. It really seems that 
from West Gate between the two arms of 
the stone, was in Roman day only a march. 
Ruins of a large Roman building have 
been discovered right across the line of the 
present street, near the Fluer de lis Hotel.
This probably was the business centre of 
Roman days. Certainly in medieval times 
the Royal Exchange and mint stood there,
also the Canterbury Jewry. The Jews were
expelled in the reign of Edward I., but as 
late as the 17th century traces of their 
synagogue were to be seen. Jewry Lane 
still remains which leads into Stern Street. 
Rise and fall, progress and decay, ever 
mark the decades of man. 
From here we visit the New Museum. 
Many objects of antiquity are shown, as 
[Column 2]
well as some of more modern date. It is a 
massive new and commodious building 
with public reading rooms and free 
library attached. It was founded by the 
late Rev. Bearny, a native of Canterbury, 
to whom the citizens showed such marked 
discourtesies that he left his home, going 
to Australia where he amassed a great 
fortune which he left to his birth city, 
desiring, in the greatness of his heart, to 
benefit her and add to her riches and glory. 
A noble revenge indeed ! A large oil
painting of the Doctor hangs on one of its 
walls.
ST. NICHOLAS CHURCH.
	High up the London road this church is 
reached. Formerly it was a hospital for 
lepers. It was built in 1084 by Arch-
Bishop Lanfrance.  Two benches, heavy 
and strong, though in places worm eaten,
still remain, said to be fifty years old; they 
certainly evidence great antiquity. In the 
turret are the Canterbury bells, five hun-
dred years old. One window, old and 
quaint, but of rare design, shows in its 
varied coloring the fluer de lis of France; 
another the king and St. Nicholas, with 
the angel Gabriel on one side with a city 
in his hand, the Virgin Mary on the other, 
almost black with age. 
Here are the arch and candles; the 
Easter Tower frescoed. In front of where 
the altar was is a large, flat slab over a 
vault, bearing the name of a knight who 
died eight hundred years ago. Another 
inscription reads, "Here lyeth the body of 
M. George Short, some time minister of 
this hospital who departed this life, Nov. 
25, Anno Domini 1641, Resurgam."
Formerly the pilgrims visited this 
church on their way to Canterbury. In 
common with the other old churches a few 
years ago the walls were scraped of their 
coat of plaster, (which by order of Henry 
VIII. was put on all all the churches) thus 
revealing many figures and designs which 
no doubt were beautiful before that day. 
However they are plainly outlined and tell 
of a faded glory. 
Lepers must have been quite common in 
England in those days. The main body of 
this church is quite large, and here the un-
fortunates worshipped. The corridor on 
the right of the entrance door is where the 
priest entered, robing himself here where 
the church regalia was kept. A short 
flight of stairs once stood by the end wall
on which he mounted to preach through 
the opening, half as tall as a man, over 
their heads as they assembled below, thus 
not entering among them. 
Whether the opening was glass covered 
or not cannot be told. It is in about the 
centre of the church, that his voice could 
be heard all over it. The outline of a 
crusader on the corridor wall indicates that 
the place was visited by them.
	The old Baptismal font shows the Tudor 
rose cut out of stone on one side, and those 
of York and Lancaster entwined on the 
other. These fonts though called baptis-
mal must be understood to admit only 
of sprinkling. They are about the size 
and depth of an ordinary wash tub, but 
made of stone and as a rule are beautifully 
embellished. Stepping down from the 
chancel (which is now the part used as a 
church for the paupers whose homes are 
opposite in the houses where the lepers 
used to live) the entrance to a vault is dis-
closed It is a clear dark slab, over which

[Column 3]
a wide piece of matting is placed, which 
extends some feet down the main part of 
the church. Cut into the stone is the fol-
lowing: "Thomas Young, 1774, down to 
1818, and members of his family." This 
man was steward of the estate, also his 
family after him. 
On the opposite wall are knights in 
armor, also the Crusader's cross and the 
niche in the wall where the image of the 
Virgin Mary used to stand. The narrow 
stairs, about six inches wide, which lead to 
the belfry, are in some instances eaten 
entirely away, others being substituted, 
while some still remain, show the progress 
of decay. Up these stairs, though so 
dangerous, the caretaker must ascend every 
Friday at half past two o'clock to ring the 
old Canterbury bells, calling the paupers 
from their houses to worship at three 
o'clock. To the question, "Why do you 
not have worship on Sunday?" he said, 
"The minister has two other parishes
where he preaches on Sunday, but the 
paupers have theirs on Friday." 
To the question, "Why do they not 
have another minister, if he's so crowded?"
"O, he has to have three livings, be-
cause the farms do not yield so abundantly 
as they used to." 
The tax, one tenth of all they raise, is
demanded of the farmers to keep up the 
Church of England. 
To the question, "Why do not your 
ministers preach as Christ did, without 
purse or scrip?" an uncomprehending stare 
is the answer. 
The wooden platters and bowls exhibited 
are said to be those formerly used by the 
lepers, and the queer old well the place 
where the Black Prince used to bathe. 
The church stands high upon a knoll, a 
very pretty situation, from which the 
surroundings are very pleasing to the eye. 
So that is the row of pauper houses !
How sad to be poor, and be denied the 
word of God on the Sabbath day ! How
changed is the world, that some must be 
termed paupers, when God sends enough 
for all and Christ came that the poor should 
have the Gospel preached to them !

