Development of Present Interest in Nutrition By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education The present interest in nutrition is the result of different lines of investigation through a relatively long period of years. The first foods investigation was an economic one and dealt largely with studies in prisons, reformatories, dormitories and families, in an endeavor to find costs of foods. Out of this developed an appreciation of the value of low-cost foods such as beans, bread, potatoes, cheaper cuts of meat and cereals. As a result of these studies, people in charge of different institutions prided themselves upon low food costs. Much emphasis was placed on foods that cost 7c, 10c, 15c, 20c a day. When the greatest emphasis was given to these studies of foods, food prices were low. It is interesting to note, at this period, that 40c-50c per day per individual represented luxury. As a result of low priced and monotonous diets in these institutions low resistance resulted and very often malnutritional diseases resulted. Following this interest in low priced foods, Drs. Leibig and Atwater and others began to analyze foods and classify them in terms of chemical elements. From these studies and experiments our present knowledge of food values has resulted. The first accepted divisions in terms of chemical composition were carbohydrates, fats, protein, ash and water. Considerable emphasis was placed on the different foods belonging to these different classes. The term Carbohydrate, for example, is a combination of two words meaning carbon and water. The purest forms of carbohydrates are sugar and starch. Others belonging to this class are cereals, vegetables and fruits, but these have combined with them some ash, flavoring substances, or small amounts of protein and fats. The fat division includes butter, cream, animal and vegetable fats and oils. The chemical term for fats is hydrocarbons as they, too, are composed of the two eleinents found in water and carbon. The hydrocarbons, because of different combinations of these elements, however, give a higher fuel value than the carbohydrates, The protein class which includes meats, fish, milk, cheese, eggs, beans and peas, is more difficult to understand, because other chemical elements are included in proteins. A very great deal of study and investigation has been devoted to the analysis of protein foods. Some of the most skilled chemists have devoted years of their lives to unlock the mysteries surrounding different kinds of protein. While much has been accomplished, the 
 field is still open to further investigation. In order to understand some of the difficulties of the protein investigation, it might be well to compare the different parts of protein molecule with the old puzzle pictures and balls which demanded considerable skill in getting the different parts to fit. Studies of different kinds of protein have been intensely interesting to the investigators in the fields of chemistry as well as physiological chemistry. Proteins have been compared to the letters of the alphabet as there are so many combinations of the elements possible. Different proteins, as we know them, are composed of several distinct combinations of elements known as amino acids. Combinations of these amino acids build up the different kinds of proteins and upon the kinds of-amino acids in different classes of protein depends the quality of that particular protein in terms of building and maintaining tissues of the body. The field is still open to further investigation as only recently another amino acid was isolated. This painstaking study of the protein molecule paved the way for the more recent feeding experiments of hundreds of animals, as it was found that the feeding of different kinds and combinations of amino acids produced definite results in terms of growth and maintenance. After the chemistry of foods was studied to some extent, attention was directed towards their physical value in terms of heat and energy. Careful experiments were made as to the amount of heat or energy produced by different foods within and without the body. With the development of these studies, the caloric or heat measure of different foods was determined. Tables showing 100 calorie portions was the outgrowth of these studies. Diets were made in terms of 100 calorie portions to meet the needs of different individuals having various energy demands. Costs of various kinds of foods were determined in terms of 100 calorie portions. Major interest was developed in this phase of nutrition about twelve or fifteen years ago. These studies helped to determine the value of different foods in terms of its chemical as well as physical values, Studies of the effect of special diet under carefully controlled conditions showed that all hundred calorie portions in different classes of foods did not produce parallel results in human and animal nutrition. Further studies indicated that there were other factors besides meeting energy value and protein requirements to be considered in getting optimum nutrition. The whole development of vitamines and emphasis on ash requirements have resulted Jargely from the keen interest in feeding experiments. At the present time the interest in nutrition has extended and expanded into another field that has more interest and understanding for the average-homemaker. This is the field of biological chemistry. This. Pertains. To the effect of different. Kinds. And pro- INTEREST IN NUTRITION 25 portions of foods upon animals in different stages of their development. Upon studies made in this field of nutrition much of our present enthusiasm is due. While many of these experimental studies as to the physiological value of different foods have necessarily been upon animals, these studies have also extended to some experiments on humans. While not all results have been similar, the results of many experiments on animals and humans have been parallel. While these studies had their beginning in state experiment stations to determine the food value of different foodstuff upon animals of different ages, thousands of carefully controlled experiments have been carried on in laboratories to show the food value of different kinds and proportions of foods at different stages of the animal's development. Among the first of these classic animal experiments is that of Hart and Humphreys, McCollum and Stenlock, which was carried on at the Wisconsin Experiment Station. The experiment was carried on to determine the value of the corn, oat and wheat plant and grain. The animals employed were young heifer calves as much alike as they could be. It was found that the animals fed on the entire corn plant and grain made a satisfactory growth and reproduced their young. The ones fed on the wheat plant and grain were much below normal. The animals were small, the young were born dead several weeks too soon and weighed only 46 pounds as compared to the corn fed calves which weighed 73 to 75 pounds each. The wheat fed mothers did not reproduce live calves. Those heifers fed on the oat plant and grain, while not as good as the corn, were better than the wheat. Early nutrition studies fifteen years ago were concerned with the kind of diet that would make young creatures grow. At that time it was generally believed that the chemical analysis showed the quality of the food. Many experiments were carried on to show the value of known food substances. Experimenters in different laboratories were impressed with the fact that there were other food factors which contributed to the success or failure of the experiments. It was also generally believed by these investigators that if the diet were complete enough to induce growth for a few weeks that the diet was complete. In 1915 McCollum began observing the span. Of life and effects on this of different foods and combinations of foods. Many careful studies and observations indicated that length of infancy, maturity, reproduction, senility and death were closely connected with the amount and kinds of food. In terms of length of life McCollum found. Only one-half dozen out of two or three hundred food formulaes were satisfactory. In connection with these experiments careful studies have been made regarding the different segments in the span of life. Considerable study has been centered on the middle portion of life 
 before senility appears. There is considerable evidence that unsatisfactory diet contributes to early aging. Experiments found, arnong other things, for instance, that milk is not a perfect food after about one-half normal adult growth is attained. When animals are restricted to milk diet they grow old rapidly. Experiments showed that milk and generous portions of whole grain produced an approximately normal animal. They also proved that 5% of liver in addition to milk produced much more satisfactory development than an equal amount of beefsteak. McCollum is of the opinion that liver is a better form of protein for children than egg yolk. An interesting observation was made by a nutrition class under the direction of one of our best trained nutrition teachers. She had the girls in her nutrition class list the names of the students of the school who were notably large or small. She assumed the responsibility of finding out from individual conference whether or not the individual "had or had not used much milk and root and green vegetables. She was particularly careful to determine the use of green leaf and root vegetables. The returns were strikingly in favor of the use of milk, green leaf and root vegetables as the largest people had satisfactory family food habits and the smallest ones had not had the habit of using these important foods. This correlation between size and foods parallels animal experiments carried on in many laboratories. Careful experiments upon rats and guinea pigs have been carried on under carefully controlled conditions and-when repeated a sufficient number of times the conclusions are considered. Correct. Experiments found in repeating certain experiments, for instance, that after a short period on unsatisfactory diets that the animal looked unhappy, something went wrong with the lungs, the coat became rough, hair shaggy, perhaps appetite was below normal, the animal lost weight, gradual decline was noticeable and death resulted. These conclusions are not snap judgments. At the Johns Hopkins laboratories they have filed away life records of more than 5,000 animals and can duplicate with fidelity the growth experiments of these experimental animals. McCollum also believes that results would be duplicated with similar experiments on humans. Experiments by Sherman, Mendell and others give additional proof of the effect of diet on well being. The biological angle in nutrition is only in its infancy. When more definite conclusions are reached in animal experimentation, more conclusions regarding nutritional failure in humans will be reached. Studies of skeletons in museums show that diets of certain kinds have produced good or bad bone development. The skeletons of the ancient Egyptians show the worst teeth of any of the people of antiquity. One of the reasons attributed by Dr. McCollum for bone failure was excessive use of cereal grains.
INTEREST IN NUTRITION 27
The nutritional history of animals is recorded by the thousands in terms of carefully examined and photographed sections of bones. Dr. McCollum says he can not only produce certain definite bone defects by carefully selected diet but he can also write the nutritional biography of the animal by examining the skeleton. These and other comments of prominent investigators should increase interest and enthusiasm for the present biological emphasis in nutrition.
Care must be taken, however, that over emphasis on the so-called protective foods does not result in too little attention to caloric requirements. The biological building stone in any nutritional program would surely topple if the foundation were not carefully built with food economics, composition of individual foods and carefully determined caloric values.
Experiments with animals and observations on individuals and groups of children and adults have added a human interest to the general interest in nutrition. Experimental studies with animals have accentuated health characteristics, e.g., McCollum lays considerable stress upon nervousness, apprehensiveness and restlessness of the malnourished animals. These and many other studies plus careful observation of health characteristics in animals and humans have made it possible for Dr. Chaplin of the New York Nutrition Council to formulate the following manifestations of good growth and nutrition: "A well built body shows the following points: Strong, even teeth, closing well, no cavities; eyes clear and bright, no puffiness under eyes; clear skin; good color in cheeks, lips, eyelids, and ear lobes; even shoulders and flat shoulder blades, deep broad chest; straight back; flat abdomen; firm muscles and sufficient, firm subcutaneous tissue; straight legs; normal size of knees and ankles; strong foot arches; antero-posterior foot position; good posture?A body in good running order is indicated by: Alert expression; unobstructed breathing; clear, red tongue; steady nerves, no restlessness, i. e., repose; cheerful disposition; good muscular co-ordination; no distress on ordinary exertion; proper weight for height, age and type."