WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		WOMAN'S VOICE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I thought perhaps it would be gratifying
to your numerous readers to hear some-
thing from this out of the way place, as it
is very seldom that this place is represented
in your paper; perhaps it is not generally
known that we have a Relief Society here,
it has not been in a very flourishing condi-
tion for the past year.  A more faithful, en-
ergetic and persevering person than our
President, Mrs. Julia Lindsey, it would be
hard to find.  She is, indeed, one in a thou-
sand, and her perseverance under difficul-
ties that would discourage a common mind
have proven her possessed of the rare quali-
ties I have attributed to her, and her Coun-
selors are of the same stamp.  But there is
a slackness with the sisters in regard to at-
tending meetings.  If there is a case of
suffering or destitution they are ready with
open hands to relieve the poor and  sick, as
they have proven in a number of instances.
But they cannot, seemingly, get the spirit
of meetings; that is, as a general thing;
there are exceptions, of course.  Sister
Presinda Kimball passed through here on
her way to Soda Springs, a few weeks ago.
A meeting of the Society was called, at
which she gave some excellent instruction
concerning our duties as a society, and as
saints of the Most High.  There was quite
a large attendance, and we had an excellent
meeting.  A partial re-organization was
made, teachers appointed, and a universal
feeling prevails that we would strive to live
our religion more faithfully in future, and
endeavor to keep up the Society.  She re-
quested the sisters if they felt like it, to do-
nate a few pairs of garments for the Laman-
ites.  The teachers were instructed in their
visits to lay this before the sisters.  Enough
was collected to purchase cloth for eighteen
pairs of garments, which have been made
and will be sent the first opportunity. This
is like the widow's mite, but it serves to
show their willingness to respond when
called upon.
	A number of the Twelve visited this place
a short time ago.  Two days meetings were
held the 14th and 15th, of this month. The
meetings were well attended by the brethren
and sisters here and from the surrounding
settlements.  The speakers were filled with
the Spirit of God.  The people were re-
buked for their slackness and want of dili-
gence and faithfulness.  They were exhort-
ed to wake up, leave off their evil habits,
and prepare themselves for what was right
at their doors.  I think their visit will re-
sult in much good, as quite a number have
already been baptized into the United Or-
der.  An order which I firmly believe, if
properly carried out, as the Lord and His
servants intend it shall be, will be the means
of uniting this people so that no power can
prevail against them.  This is what Satan
is afraid of, and the reason he strives with
all the power he possesses to influence the
Saints to fight against it.  But truth will
prevail in spite of all opposition.  Then let
us be careful not to speak lightly of that
which comes from the servants and mouth-
pieces of the Almighty here in our midst.
	The sisters all desire the success of the
EXPONENT and would be glad to subscribe
for it, but greenbacks are very scarce.  We
are looking for better days.  May the Lord
bless you in your endeavors for the spread
of truth and intelligence is the prayer of
your sisters in the gospel,
	MRS. ALICE M. RICH, Sec'y,
	MRS. SARAH M POMEROY, Ass't
Paris, Bear Lake, Aug. 29th, 1875

[column2]
	SHAMBIG, RUSH VALLEY, Aug. 26th.
Dear Editor:
	I do not expect to write very much, it is
the first that I have ever written for the
EXPONENT, but I would like to say a few
words to the girls, to beware of what com-
pany they keep and associate with, and
what they say or do; I would say to them
—speak wrongfully of no one, and when a
person comes in, or they see them elsewhere,
be very careful not to mock them when
their back is turned; it is very wrong and
unjust, and the Lord will disown any one
who persists in these things; if the persons
be Mormons, Gentiles, Jews, or whosoever
they be, they should be treated as we would
like to be treated ourselves.  I would ad-
vise them to try and learn something that
will be of use to them, and to those that
they are or may be connected with, and ask
God our Father to fill them with His Holy
Spirit, that they may have wisdom and
comprehend the blessings that He hath in
store for the faithful, and accomplish a work
that is good and great.  And I say to you
girls—be prudent and wise in your daily
talk and actions through life; aim high, and
try and hit the mark; say and do all the
good you can, and no bad.  The evil spirits
and their influence are all around you, but do
not let them have any power over you; the
Lord will bless those who do His will and
obey his laws.
	Your sister in the gospel,
							C. S.


