HYGIENIC NOTES.

	A sister writing from Fairfield Utah Co. states
that essence of wintergreen is a prompt and effect-
ual remedy for "cholera infantum." Mix a small
quantity of the essence with a little water and su-
gar and give to the patient. The first dose will
sometimes do, the second has never failed in her
experience to make a perfect cure.
	Perspiration.—The unpleasant odor produced by
perspiration is frequently the source of vexation to
persons who are subject to it. Nothing is simpler
than to remove this odor much more effectually
than by the application of such costly unguents and
perfumes as are in use. It is only necessary to
procure some of the compound spirits of ammonia,
put about two tablespoonfuls in a basin of water.
Washing the face, hands and arms with this, leaves
the skin as clean, sweet and fresh as one could
wish. The wash is perfectly harmless, and very
cheap. It is recommended on the authority of an
experienced physician.
	The following rules for health are from a letter
published in the Herald of Health for August.
First, secure the requisite amount of sleep by tak-
ing out-door exercise after supper, and freeing the
mind from all anxious thought. Second, take full
three hours exercise out-doors daily, riding, walk-
ing, talking, in the open air. In winter substitute
rapid walking, horseback exercises, and in-door
gymnastics with the window open. Third, give
special attention to ventilation without draft; use
open grates with patent ventilators, and Anott's
valve in the ceiling; the first provides constant
fresh air and the latter an escape for foul air,
Fourth, diet; reject all tea, coffee, malt liquors
and stimulants, use little meat, eat slowly. Fifth,
bathe all over in cold water summer and winter;
and in winter a brisk walk after the bath produces
the best re-action; wet the head with cold water
night and morning. Sixth, for work, from eight
to twelve hours if brain work. Seventh, cultivate
a tranquil, contented and cheerful mind at all times.


THE production of Poultry in the United
States is about 250,000,000, the product of
eggs yielding a like amount of money.
	AN old gentleman of the name of Gould,
having married a very young wife, wrote a
poetical epistle to a friend to inform him of
it, and concluded thus:
	"So you see, my dear sir, though I'm eighty years old,
	A girl of eighteen is in love, with old Gould."
To which his friend replied—
	"A girl of eighteen may love Gould it is true:
	But believe me, dear sir, it is Gold without U."


