HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Some Points in Butter Making.–It is time to
skim when the fingers can be drawn through the
top without the cream close behind it. When
cream will do this it is about ripe enough to churn.
When cream foams in the churn it may be cured
by warming. Cream should not be churned as
soon as taken from the milk. It should be stirred
and allowed to ripen all alike. This will occur in
twelve hours or so. But cream should not stand
until whey is formed in the cream jar.

	 Rules for Pickling. –They are very simple and
easily followed, and if proper care be taken after
the washing is over, even the novice may have on
hand very toothsome pickles. Do not use metal
in any shape when pickling, –if you wish to boil
vinegar put it in a stone jar on the stove and use
wooden spoons and forks, or silver. The vinegar
is often the all-essential feature, and unless it be
good your work is in vain. Cider vinegar is su-
perior to other kinds, but be sure it is cider vine-
gar, –not a trashy compound of vitriol and acid
sold as cider or wine vinegar. Keep your pickles
in stone jars, never handle them with your fin-
gers, but use a wooden spoon, and keep them well
covered with vinegar and a bladder, or close cove-
er of some kind. It is not necessary to use a brass
kettle to make pickles green,–indeed it should be
considered criminal to boil them in one, and all who
care for health and life will never associate brass
with pickles.
	Cucumber Pickles. –The small, long kind are
best for pickles and those but half-grown are nicer
than the full-grown. Let them be freshly gather-
ed, pull off  the blossom, but do not rub them.
Pour over them a strong brine boiling hot, cover
closely, and let them stand all night. In the morn-
ing drain with or in a seive, and dry in a cloth. To
each quart of best cider vinegar put one-half ounce of
whole black peper, the same of ginger and allspice,
and one ounce of mustard seed,–add onions if
agreeable. When this pickled vinger boils up,
throw in the cucumbers, and make them boil as
quickly as possible for three or four minutes–no
longer. Put them in a jar with the boiling vine-
gar and cover closely. Made in this way, your


pickles will be tender, crisp and green. If the
color is not quite clear enough, boil the vinegar
over the next day, then pour over the cucumbers
and cover perfectly tight.


