PEN AND SCISSORS.
	Hope is a light diet, but very stimulat-
ing.
	SOME mourn more the shame which sin
brings, than the sin which brings the shame.
	THE slightest excess of expenses over in-
come is poverty, and the slightest excess of
income over expenses is wealth.
	IT is observed that in strawberry short-
cake, it is not the cake that is short, but the
strawberries.
	THE worst sign of an age is not evil liv-
ing, but low standards and cynical judg-
ments; though, indeed, these two go to-
gether.
	SNEER, if you will, like a fool, at the sug-
gestion of reform, morals, religion; every
man knows that all there is of true life is
personal virtue and rectitude of character.
	IF thou art rich, thou art poor; for, like
an ass, whose back with ingots bows, thou
bearest thy heavy riches but a journey, and
death unloads thee.—Shakspeare.
	THE intimacy begotten over a wine bottle
has no heart.  I never knew a good feeling
to come from it, or an honest friendship
made by it.  It only entices men and ruins
them.—Thackeray.
	THE foundation of-domestic happiness is
faith in the virtue of woman; the founda-
tion of political happiness, temporal and
eternal, is reliance on the goodness of Provi-
dence.
	LET every person so live that he can go
to bed in peace with himself at night. No
matter who else fights with him, don't let
that little grumbler called conscience have
good grounds for putting in his roar.
	THAT farmer understood human nature
who said—"If you want to keep your boy
at home don't bear too hard on the grind-
stone when he turns the crank."
	"Now, then, children," said a parish
school-mistress, showing her children off on
examination day; "Who loves all men?"
"You, missus," was the unexpected reply.
	GAIL Hamilton thinks school exhibitions
are fearfully and wonderfully contrived to
use up pupils, and break down teachers, and
take all the substance out of what should be
an education.
	PROSPERITY has its "sweet uses" as well
as adversity, for no sooner does a man come
into a little property than he learns the
number of his friends; whereas, if he had
remained poor he would probably have died
in perfect ignorance of the fact.
	HORACE Greeley once sent a message to
Mr. Dana, who couldn't read it, and the boy
brought it back, and without saying a word
laid it on Mr. Greeley's table. "What is
this?" said Horace; "what does the fool
mean?" "Well," said the boy, "that's just
what Mr. Dana said."
	A MIDDLE-AGED gentleman paid his ad-
dresses to a very young lady, but when he
asked her in marriage, was refused.  Hav-
ing acquainted a neighboring clergyman of
his disappointment, he received the follow-
ing laconic answer: "You ask and receive
not, because you ask a-miss.
	ROSWELL complained to Johnson that the
noise of the company the day before had
made his head ache.  "No, sir, it was not
the noise that made your head ache; it was
the sense we put into it." Has sense that
effect upon the head?" "Yes, Sir on heads
not used to it.


