			HOME AFFAIRS.

	ELDERS JOHN Taylor, George Q. Cannon,
and A. M. Cannon went North Tuesday morn-
ing, Sept. 7th, on a preaching tour through
Cache Valley.

	MARGETTS' COMBINATION Dramatic Troupe
are giving entertainments through the North-
ern settlements; report says, to full houses and
appreciative audiences.

	A MOST TRULY refreshing and well-timed
shower of rain fell Wednesday Sept. 8th, cool-
ing the atmosphere considerably and contribu-
ting some little towards allaying the dust which
has been flying in clouds, the past two weeks.

	THE EXCURSION to Cache Valley which left
Salt Lake city Sept. 7th, was most thoroughly
enjoyed by the participants, most of them re-
turning on the evening of the 9th, having real-
ized all the pleasure and recreation they antici-
pated.

	MR. JESSE Shepard a talented musical geni-
us has been giving a series of entertainments
in this city recently. He is a gentleman who
has had the benefit of the highest musical cul-
tivation, and possesses a most wonderful voice
in its range and compass. He has traveled ex-
tensively, and visited several European Sover-
eigns. His programme consisted principally of 
classic selections.

	MADAME OCTAVIA Walton Le Vert, who is
at present sojourning in this city will give her
"Readings" at the Presbyterian Church Thurs-
day evening Sept. 6th, at 8 o'clock. The enter-
tainment will be entirely of selections from her
own composition. She is a lady of refinement,
and an author of considerable note; has al-
ways moved in the society of literary and dis-

[Column 2]
tinguished people; was intimately acquainted
with Henry Clay, and many other celebrities
who have passed away.

	MONDAY MORNING Sept. 6th, President D.
H. Wells, and Elders Lorenzo Snow, Frank-
lin D. Richards, Junius Wells and others accom-
payning them, started on a tour through the
Southern settlements. President Young with
a party of ladies and gentlemen consisting of
relatives and friends escorted them on their
way as far as York. They intend first visiting
Sevier Co., and afterwards go South as far as
St. George before returning home. We wish
them a safe and pleasant journey, and may
abundant success attend their mission. At
Richfield they held Two-days' meetings Sept.
9th, and 10th, which were largely attended.

	MISS IDA Cook of this city, sister of Miss
Mary E. Cook, will open the High School in
Logan, Cache Co. on Monday morning Sept.
20th. Her reputation as a teacher is thoroughly
established here, as she has taught in different
parts of the city, also in Logan the past sum-
mer. She is a young lady of pleasing man-
ners, possessing intelligence, culture and refine-
ment and one infinitely calculated to carry an
influence for improvement among the circle
where she associates. Miss Anne Doremus,
daughter of Dr. Doremus of this city will also
open a ward school in Logan at the same time
Monday Sept. 20th.

	ON MONDAY morning Aug. 30th, Miss M. E.
Cook re-opened her Graded School in the So-
cial Hall. This lady is eminently qualified in
all respects to take charge of a school of this
kind, having had a long experience in teaching
schools arranged after this method in the East,
and herself possessing a superior education as
well as all those rare and estimable qualities
which are positively essential to persons having
charge of teachers and pupils combined. As
assistant teachers, she has in her employment
Miss Emma Wells, and in the Primary Depart-
ment, according to grade Miss Louisa Ashby in
charge of Third Readers etc.; Mrs. Camilla C.
Cobb Second Readers etc.; Miss Lucy String-
am First Readers Primers etc.

	MRS. Gen. C. A. Van Cort and Dr. Mary E.
Walker, after leaving this city visited Ogden,
where they were the recipients of much true
courtesy from the Bishop, President Richards
and C. W. Penrose. Dr. Walker delivered a
lecture there upon "dress-reform." She left
with the Editor of the Ogden Junction the
copy of a letter written in and of Salt Lake
City, for publication in the Oswego Palladium.
A part of this letter is published in the Ogden
Junction of Wednesday Sept. 8th, with a few
comments. We have a copy of a letter of Dr.
Walker's written here, but have not sufficient
space to publish it at present. It is entitled
"Towards The Setting Sun" "Letter Number
Three.


