		PIPSEY PAPERS.

	I will tell you how I preserve apricots, and
other fruits to keep them whole.  I cut the
fruit and take the pits out and put in a jar;
then make the syrup, and pour it hot over
the fruit, and put it away until the next
day, when I drain off the juice and boil it
down to a syrup; cook it until it is done
when I take it up and put it away.  I put
about 3/4 lb. of sugar to 1 lb. of apricots or
peaches.  It will keep a long time (if not
put on the table too often.)
	Another subject which is appropriate to
the time of year, is with regard to the little
children.  If we only knew what to do for
our little ones, how often we might save
them from suffering, or death.  If we find
our children ailing, especially the smaller
ones, we should use some simple remedy
immediately.  If I awake in the night and
find one of my children with a fever, I do
not wait till morning, but get up immedi-
ately and do something for it.  If very hot
I bathe them in warm water with some soda
thrown in.  A few drops of hemlock oil is
good to produce perspiration and cool a fever.
If inclined to vomit, perhaps there has been
something eaten that did not agree with the
stomach, and I help them to throw it off by
giving them a little salt and water, or some
gentle emetic.  I think I have saved my
children many times from sickness in that
way, and by not sleeping until morning,
leaving four or five hours for the disease to
get a hold upon the system.
	I suppose some will think it is unneces-
sary to write these things, as they know
them already, but many do not know them,
especially young mothers.  They are too
apt to rely on a doctor; they wait until the
little one is really very ill and then send for
the doctor, it is many times too late and we
are called upon to mourn over the lost one,
before we hardly realized their danger.
	Mothers, now is the time to watch
over your children.  Fruit is ripening, and
the busy season is coming on, people are
crowded for means and think they must
save all they can.  But don't neglect the
little ones; don't let them go cold or wet,
or eat fruit of all sorts to sour their stom-
achs or derange their systems.  Some may
think it strange that I say cold this season
of the year, but if you do, just dress your-
selves as children are often dressed, and lie
around on the floor of a cool pleasant room
or in the shade of a tree, and you will soon
see how cold you will be especially if your
blood is thin and you can not take active ex-
ercise.  A child sitting is more exposed
to draughts as well as more suscepti-
ble to the changes of the weather; while
the mother heated and weary with exercise,
and thinking of all there is do do, forgets
baby if he is good and allows himself to be
imposed upon.
	First we know baby is sick, and then the
fruit of our hard labor goes for medicines or
doctors, or, perhaps to lay baby away, and
our hearts ache and grieve for him, and the
only comfort we have is, that we have done
the best we knew how.  Perhaps so, but it
is our duty to learn all we can in regard to
these things, and lessen if possible the mor-
tality among our little ones.
							MARY.


LAZINESS grows on people; it begins in
cobwebs, and ends in iron chains.	The
more business a man has to do, the more he
is able to accomplish; for he learns to econo-
mize his time.—Judge Hale.


