DEDICATED TO HIS FAMILY AND FRIENDS.

	A friend of God—a friend of man—a kind
And loving husband, father, brother, saint,
Has gone!

		The deep, sad sense of loneliness
Felt in the soft and soothing whisperings
Of twilight zephyrs as they gently move,
And seem in mournful requium to chant
The solemn fact, speaks volumes to the heart.

	He is not dead; yet, death has done its work;
It came, but not in ghastliness—it as
A kindly porter set the "Gates Ajar,"
And he stepped forth, leaving the tenement
A breathless corse, that slumbers in the tomb;
'Twas worn and weary and it needed rest.
No faith, nor prayers, nor the heart-yearnings of
The loving and beloved, could longer bind
That mighty spirit in an earthy form.

	The wreath which mem'ry twines for him, around
The warm affections of the saints of God,
Will still be bright, and fresh with fragrance, when
The tallest, proudest monumental spires
That grace the tombs of earthly royalties,
Have crumbled 'neath the with'ring stroke of Time.

	He made his mark in honor's upward path;
And his example is, to those he loves,
The richest legacy he could bequeath.
	With firm integrity, unflinchingly
He's "fought the fight of faith." He's nobly fought
The powers of darkness—stem'd the foaming tide
Of ign'rance, prejudice and bigotry,
Combined in force against Eternal Truth.
And now, disrobed of frail mortality's


Encumbrances, he joins the mighty host
Of valiant vet'rans of the cross, who're all
Co-operating with the saints on earth;
And with that band he'll shout triumphant strains.

	Here, he was humble as a little child,
And yet, as boldest lion, he was bold
And brave. Unflinchingly he ever dared,
What is no ordinary daring in
This fawning, sycophantic age; he dared
To speak the truth. He verily is one
Of God's best specimens of genuine
Nobility, ie., AN HONEST MAN.
We're proud to know he was and is our friend.

	"Peace to his ashes." His loved memory
Needs not of mortal praise. His works abide;
And he, with all whose lives are fashioned by
The unadulterated Gospel's mould,
Will live eternally where God shall reign.
							E. R. SNOW.
Salt Lake City, Sept. 11th, 1875.


