LEARN A TRADE.
		      	——
	I never look at my old steel composing
rule that I do not bless myself that, while
my strength lasts, I am not at the mercy of
the world.  If my pen is not wanted, I can
go back to the type-case and be sure to find
work; for I learned the printers trade
thoroughly—newspaper-work, job-work,
book-work, and press-work.  I am glad I
have got a good trade.  It is a rock upon
which the possessor can stand firmly.  There
is health and vigor of both body and mind
in an honest trade.  It is the strongest and
surest part of the self-made man.  Go from
the academy to the printing office, or the ar-
tisan’s bench, or, if you please, to the farm
—for, to be sure, true farming is a trade,
and a grand one at that.  Lay thus a sure
foundation, and after that branch off into
whatever profession you please.
	You have heard, perhaps, of the clerk who
had faithfully served Stephen Girard from
boyhood to manhood.  On the twenty-first
anniversary of his birthday he went to his
master and told him his time was up and he
certainly expected important promotion in
the merchant’s service.  But Stephen Gi-
rard said to him:—“Very well, now go and
learn a trade."
	“What trade, sir?”
	“Good barrels and butts must be in de-
mand while you live.  Go and learn the
cooper’s trade and when you have made a
perfect barrel bring it to me.”
	The young man went away and learned
the trade, and in time brought to his old
master a splendid barrel of his own make. 
	Girard examined it and gave the maker
two thousand dollars for it, and then said to
him:
	“Now, sir, I want you in my counting-
room; but henceforth you will not be de-
pendent upon the whim of Stephen Gi-
rard.  Let what will come, you have a good
trade always in reserve.”
	The young man saw the wisdom and un-
dorstood.		
	Years ago, when the middle-aged men of
to-day were boys, Horace Greely wrote:
	“It is a great source of consolation to us
that when the public shall be tired of us as
an editor, we can make a satisfactory livli-
hood at setting type or farming; so that
while our strength lasts, ten thousand block-
heads, taking offense at some article they
do not understand, could not drive us into
the poorhouse.”
	And so may a man become truly inde-
pendent.—Ex.


THE SALE OF DAUGHTERS.—The public
marts for the sale of young ladies are now
in full operation.  It is the height of the
season at fashionable watering places.  Hith-
er worldly-minded, ambitious, scheming
women repair with their marriageable
daughters, in pursuit of what are deemed
"eligible" matches—that is to say, matches
in which, for the sake of social or pecuniary
advantages, the hand is unaccompanied by
the heart.
	It is in vain to appeal to such women.
The motherly instinct appears to be eradi-
cated from their nature.  And yet they are
engaged in an undertaking but little elevat-
ed above the slave mart.  They are barter-
ing away the whole future of the lives of
their own children.  For these forced mar-
riages, springing, not from love in the
heart, but from base business calculations,
are sure to end in misery.—N. Y. Ledger,
Aug. 14, '75.


