TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF 
ELIZA A FELT.
[Read at the Semi-Annual Meeting of the
17th Ward, Aug. 5th, 1875.]
	Dear Friends, I feel that to-day while we
are glad to clasp the hand of friendship and
love to look upon familiar faces, we should
think of one who has left us since our last
annual meeting. I remember so well how
anxious she was when we got up that re-
port, to do better in the future, and in a 
joking way told our President Sister Hyde,
that if we did not do better in the future we
ought to be discharged; yet in one month
she ceased to meet with us. I was closely


associated with Sister Felt for over seven
years in the society, and we never once dis-
agreed in performing our labors, which were
constant and sometimes trying. Yester-
day being the day appointed to prepare the
report, I could not but think of her and al-
most expected to see her come in with her
books, as had been her custom, to make up
the Society accounts. Yet I feel only we are
the losers, she has attained the victory, and
waits for us beyond. I cannot express my
feelings as I have handled her books and
examined her figures, and knew that the
dear hand that wrote them lies in the silent
grave.
	She died early in the morning on the 19th
of June and was buried on the evening of
the 20th, being Sunday. Calm and beauti-
ful was the day when we laid her down to
rest. Her funeral was largely attended, and
many hearts were wrung by her loss. She
looked calm and lovely in her rest and mer-
ciful Death had straightened and smoothed
away so many of the care lines on her face.
I thought how great is the reward which
she has won. According to the request of
our president, the officers of the Society,
namely, Sisters Hyde, Heywood, Reese, my-
self and Mother, accompanied her friends to
the cemetery, and each of us threw a bou-
quet upon her coffin, that as tokens of our
love they might mingle with her dust.
	To-day she is absent, but not forgotten;
and as each succeeding Annual Day shall
bring us together as a society, thoughts of
her will be with each of us, and her mem-
ory will be ever green, until we again shall
meet her, where "the wicked cease from
troubling and the weary are at rest,"
		Her sincere Friend,
