		A REFORM NEEDED.

	Excess seems to be incidental to human na-
ture, and wherever there is excess reaction is
sure to follow; it is invariable the world over
that extravagance is ruinous to any nation, to
any people, to any society, family or person.
There is the same result whether it is one
country or another; people are ready enough to
acknowledge this, and yet they are prone to see
the mote in another's eye, without casting the
beam out of their own. Report tells us of
partners ruining their firms by extravagance
of ladies who dress so expensively, live so lux-
uriously that their husbands capital is not
equivalent and in consequence by and by.
comes a failure, a bankruptcy, or sometimes
worse, a fearful suicide and all is over. Who is
to blame for all these things and who is will-
ing to step out and head a reform? Here and
there one may undertake it alone, but what
influence have they, what support is given
them, how are their sentiments and opinions
received? The generality of the people will
say "custom and society are to blame," they,
poor inanimate things will have much to an-

[Column 2]
swer for, they will assuredly be over-burdened.
Should rational beings and accountable for their
acts, endowed by heaven with such wonderfulpowers of reasoning, sense and judgment,
allow themselves to be drawn into habits and
practices which are in their developement ruin-
ous, and then cry out custom must answer
for their sins! Latter-day Saints do not follow
the custom of the world in worshipping God
nor in attributing to Him a sphere, for they
worship a God without body parts or passions,
(and by the by we have often wondered how
they thought He could be jealous, and their God
dwells beyond the bounds of time and space)!
This people profess to worship a real God with
a positive body who must actually have posi-
tive space to dwell in. Why, when they have
rejected and ignored their views and senti-
ments on the most important points, should
they allow themselves to be led astray by the
little things which are so small and insignificant
in themselves. Truly it is "the little foxes that
spoil the wines."
	Unless they can entirely eradicate the feeling
that is now existing that it is necessary for their
neighbor or friend to reform, while they are them-
selves exempt, they can never expect to produce
any permanant good; where shall the reform
begin? Expressions like these are useless, my
friend spends so much, or practices such and
such extravagances, or has some very glaring
faults, but we have not been extravagant in
the least, we have kept ourselves aloof from
these excesses. To work upon this principle is
folly, because let every person be their own
judge, they are nearly or quite perfect. But if
they will begin to examine into their own con-
dition instead of that of their neighbor's, weed
their own gardens instead of peeping over the
fence to see how fast their neighbor's weeds
grow, then they may anticipate the accomplish-
ment of some thorough work, and a reforma-
tion thus commenced will extend by imitation
if nothing further, for it is so natural to try
to imitate each other that it would spread like
wildfire from family to family, and city to
country and from one settlement to another; in
fact the cities rule, silently, it may be, but
wherever there is a larger city or town all the
others ape the manners, the practices good or
bad of this leading town. So it remains if in
Salt Lake City they begin to economize
time, means and expenditures, the lesser
magnates will act after the pattern they set.
It is several years now since it has become
common to hear the remark made that people
outside in the settlements dreaded to let their
wives or daughters come to this centre stake of
Zion, lest they too should be carried away with
vanity and the fashions of Babylon. Dr. Mary
J. Stafford Blake in conversation with us re-
marked, "why I am surprised that you have
not advanced farther in "dress reform" living
out from the world, "why," said she "I saw
just as much style and quite as many laces rib-
bons and flowers in your tabernacle as I should
see in an assemblage of a like number in New
York or Boston.
	Men will protest both here and elsewhere
that woman is causing this extravagance, that
her insatiable vanity and love of admiration,
her desire to outdo or surpass her neighbor in
all her adornments of person or style, is the
leading or primary cause of bankruptcy, and all
other evils brought about by expense over in-
come. Men have actually frightened them-
selves into the belief that it is unsafe to marry,
it will require so much to keep their wives in
gew gaws. Well whose fault is it? Is it not their
own? Whom do men choose for their compan-
ions at balls, at operas, at theatres and else-
where? The fashionable stylish young lady, no


matter whether she can utter half a dozen sen-
sible remarks or not, if she is only "stunning"
according to modern parlance, that is the one
grand requisite; so forsooth, women who desire
to find favor in the eyes of the other sex must
dress in the latest style, however absurd they
may think it, and if they have their own ward-
robe to look after they have certainly no time
to improve their minds, or cultivate their hearts,
because they must hunt up silks and laces, get
ready for parties, return calls, and go through
all the round of fashionable life. Such women
are as much slaves as the servant girl in the
kitchen. Whoever will lead out in a thorough
reform is deserving of everlasting honor; but it
will require indomitable courage and persever-
ance. Will the sisters try to realize the
importance of their position in this day and
age? Remember in the commencement, Eve led
Adam, and to this day she is quoted as the au-
thor of man's misery and degeneracy.
	Very little can be said in a short article like
this upon a subject which is so vast and com-
prehensive, but one item more we would fain
add, and that is that woman can no doubt in-
troduce reform in very many respects, in her-
self and others and in generalities. Economiz-
ing time is one subject at present very little
thought of, many ladies waste their own time
and are the indirect cause of others losing
theirs, and also set an example which is exact-
ly at variance with the spirit of reform. Wo-
man's power and influence will have great
weight in this matter, and those who are will-
ing to lead out, deserve the reward they are
sure to obtain. The complaint has already
been made that there is "enthusiasm in this
direction:" there has been slackness in times
past, a little zeal and some enthusiasm may
counterbalance the scale and turn it in woman's
favor.


