[Vol31 | January 1944 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Stories from the Book of Mormon Conversion of Lamanites | Author: Ammon and His Brethren]
teresting articles.  Elder  George  Reynold's  papers  upon  the  Book  of  Mormon,  are  calcu- 
lated to  educate  our  young  people  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  literature. 
Miss  Kate  Field  will  dehver  her  popular  and  interesting  lecture,  entitled  "An  Evening 
With  Dickens,"  in  the  Social  Hall,  in  this  city,  on  Monday  evening,  January  yth,  for  the 
benefit  of  the  Deseret  Hospital  ....  The  lecture  is  for  a  benevolent  purpose  and  should 
be  well  attended  on  that  account,  as  this  is  the  season  to  bless  and  succor  the  poor  and 
unfortunate,  and  at  the  beginning  of  a  new  year  it  is  fitting  to  be  kindly  and  generous. 
*  *  *  * 
The  Widow's  Mite:  The  subject  of  the  Logan  Temple  is  ever  a  pleasing  one  to 
the  Saints  ....  There  is  a  class  of  donors  to  which  I  wish  to  draw  attention  ....  that  of 
a  number  of  widows,  both  in  and  out  of  the  district  of  our  acquaintance,  who  have 
donated  $2,108.23,  which  is  truly  the  widow's  mite. — C.  O.  Card. 
*  *  *  * 
A  beautiful  lamp  shade  cover  is  made  of  garnet  satin  ribbon,  torchon  lace  and  small 
plush  balls  ....  Run  the  lace  neatly  on  the  edge  of  the  ribbon  and  sew  together.  Shirr 
the  ribbon  three-quarters  of  an  inch  from  the  upper  edge,  leaving  the  shirr  string  long 
enough  to  tie  underneath.    Fasten  the  balls  on  the  lace,  and  embroider  all  the  solid  parts 
of  the  lace  with  embroidery-silk  corresponding  in  color  wdth  the  ribbon  used. 
*  *  ♦  * 
Editorial — Suffrage  in  Utah:  The  clause  in  Senator  Edmunds'  bill,  abolishing 
woman  suffrage  in  Utah,  is  cahing  forth  denunciation  and  severe  criticism,  and  will  bring 
down  upon  his  devoted  head  the  indignation  of  all  good  suffragists. 
*  ♦  *  * 
Women  in  Politics:  Dr.  W.  Hammond  has  failed  to  produce  any  physiological 
reasoning  why  women  should  not  exercise  the  right  of  franchise,  and  become  educated 
pertaining  to  the  laws  and  politics  of  the  nation.  Now,  as  we  belong  to  that  unfortunate 
class  whose  brain  is  deficient  in  weight,  we  should  like  to  ask  the  learned  philosopher 
whether  the  superior  intellect  consists  in  the  quantity  or  quality.  This  learned  anatomist 
further  asserts  that  the  governing  power  of  the  world  is  to  be  found  in  the  brain  of  the 
male.  Where  shall  we  go  to  find  a  precedent,  not  in  our  own  dear  native  land  of  liberty, 
but  back  to  the  old  monarchial  governments  of  Europe.  Wc  learn  from  history  that 
queens  have  often  excelled  kings  in  the  administration  of  civil  government,  not  from  a 
superior  power  of  reason  or  intellect,  but  from  a  clearer  moral  sense  of  justice. — E.  Pluri- 
bus  Unum. 
*  *  *  * 
Minutes  of  the  Quarterly  Conference  of  the  Relief  Societies  of  Utah  County,  held 
in  the  meeting  house,  Provo  City,  November  3rd,  1883,  Counselor  Mary  John  presiding. 
Ma  Smoot  was  with  us  again,  also  Sister  Zina  D.  H.  Young  .... 
Minutes  of  the  Quarterly  Conference  of  the  Relief  Society  of  Sanpete  Stake  of 
Zion,  held  at  Moroni,  December  15th,  1883,  President  W.  A.  P.  Hyde  presiding,  as- 
sisted by  her  counselors,  Sisters  E.  Allred  and  S.  Peterson  .... 
The  Relief  Society  of  Juab  County  held  their  Quarterly  Conference  in  the  Nephi 
Meeting  House,  December  15th,  President  Mary  Pitchforth  presiding. 
The  first  Quarterly  Conference  of  the  St.  Joseph  Stake  of  Arizona,  convened  in  the 
bowery  at  Pima,  September  2nd,  President  Layton  and  Counselor  D.  P.  Kimball  were 
present,  also  the  Bishops  of  the  various  wards. 
Page  28

Womaife  Spiiere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
JANUARY!  Never  before  have  so 
many  prayed  so  earnestly  for  a 
happier  year  than  the  last  one.  Yet, 
even  without  war,  can  our  world  be 
happy  if  people  are  morally  un- 
sound? According  to  J.  Edgar  Hoo- 
ver, delinquency  among  girls  under 
twenty-one  years  of  age  increased 
eighty-nine  and  five-tenths  per  cent 
during  the  first  six  months  of  1943 
as  against  the  same  period  of  1942. 
What  are  mothers  and  other  adult 
women  doing  about  this  problem? 
Do  they  sense  their  responsibility  to 
the  young— the  necessity  of  setting 
them  the  right  example,  of  impress- 
ing them  with  a  sense  of  true  values, 
of  improving  home  conditions,  of 
insisting  upon  kindly  discipline?  In 
this  connection,  it  is  interesting  to 
note  that  with  the  large  pre-war  Jap- 
anese and  Chinese  population  in  Los 
Angeles,  that  city  rarely  had  a  Japa- 
nese child  in  its  courts,  or  even 
caught  in  trouble,  and  a  young  Chi- 
nese delinquent  was  practically  un- 
known. 
npHE  noted  writer,  Mrs.  Adela  Rog- 
ers St.  John,  recently  lost  a  son 
overseas.    He  was  a  volunteer  in  the 
Royal  Canadian  Air  Force. 
CALT  LAKE'S  Louise  Isgreen  is  a 
successful  Red  Cross  recreational 
director  among  convalescing  soldiers 
in  a  Seattle  hospital.  She  says  the 
work  is  inspiring  because  of  the 
courage  and  spirit  of  the  wounded 
boys.    "Actually,  it  is  they  who  help 
us  to  face  life   bravely,"    she   com- 
ments. 
INDIA'S  women  are  emerging  into 
a  broader  life.  In  London,  in  pre- 
war days,  numbers  of  them,  in  their 
graceful  raiment,  passed  through  the 
streets  to  attend  classes  at  the  uni- 
versity. In  India,  Mrs.  Sarojini 
Naidu,  poet,  Mrs.  Ranjit  Pandit, 
president  of  the  All-India  Women's 
Association,  and  Begum  Nawaz  are 
working  to  improve  woman's  status. 
The  greatest  humanitarian  work 
among  them  has  been  done  by  a  self- 
sacrificing  American,  Dr.  Ida  Scud- 
der,  who,  for  nearly  forty  years,  has 
brought  medical  services  to  the 
women  of  India,  particularly  at  the 
time  of  their  confinements.  In  1936, 
the  All-India  Obstetrical  and  Gyne- 
cological Congress  elected  Dr.  Scud- 
der  president,  despite  bitter  preju- 
dice against  making  women  leaders 
of  men. 
INTERESTING  reading:  Look 
Forward,  Warrior  by  Ruth  Bryan 
Owen,  a  book  on  post-war  peace; 
Rip  Tide  oi  Aggression  by  Lillian 
Mowrer,  foreign  correspondent;  Post- 
Mortem  on  Malaya,  by  Virginia 
Thompson,  authority  on  Southwest 
Pacific;  The  Magical  Realm  by  Kath- 
leen Coyle,  a  poetical  book  about 
childhood  in  Northern  Ireland;  We 
Took  to  the  Woods  by  Louise  Dick- 
inson Rich,  a  true  story  of  a  writer- 
schoolteacher  who  marries  and  turns 
pioneer.  The  story  is  told  with  zest 
and  humor. 
Page  29

EDITORIAL 
VOL.  31 
JANUARY  1944 
NO.  1 
uionour  cJhy^  QJather  and  Qjn^  fllotker 
AS  "the  earth  rolls  upon  her 
wings/'  a  new  year  approaches 
and  another  span  of  time  is  given 
each  one  on  which  to  write  a  record 
of  spiritual  progression  or  retrogres- 
sion. If  one  would  inscribe  a  record 
which  will  bring  him  ever  nearer  to 
an  eternity  of  joy,  there  are  certain 
fundamental  laws  which  must  be 
obeyed.  After  Moses  had  led  the 
children  of  Israel  out  of  bondage,  the 
Lord  gave  to  them  ten  laws  by  which 
they  were  to  order  their  lives.  Amid 
the  thunderings  and  lightnings  of 
Mt.  Sinai,  the  Lord  spoke:  ''Honour 
thy  father  and  thy  mother:  that  thy 
days  may  be  long  upon  the  land 
which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee" 
(Exodus  20:12) .  To  this  law  another 
promise  is  attached  as  given  in  Deut- 
eronomy 5:16  which  states:  "that  it 
might  go  well  with  thee."  Christ, 
during  His  ministry,  upheld  this  law 
and  rebuked  the  Jews  who  followed 
tradition  to  the  neglect  of  rendering 
obedience  to  the  law  as  announced 
by  Moses  (Matt.  19:19).  He  also 
included  this  law  among  those 
which  the  rich  young  man  must  fol- 
low if  he  would  gain  eternal  life. 
This  vital  commandment  was  also 
recognized  by  Paul  who  said,  "But 
if  any  provide  not  for  his  own,  and 
specially  for  those  of  his  own  house, 
he  hath  denied  the  faith,  and  is 
worse  than  an  infidel"  (I  Tim.  5:8). 
Yet  in  spite  of  these  teachings, 
there  are  many  who  do  not  live  this 
law.  How  often  does  one  hear  a 
mother  say,  "I  took  care  of  seven 
Poge30 
(or  five  or  three),  but  seven  cannot 
take  care  of  me."  This  is  a  terrible 
indictment  of  the  selfishness  of  chil- 
dren in  this  day.  A  father  and  a 
mother  spend  the  most  active  years 
of  their  lives  in  cherishing,  guarding, 
and  providing  for  their  children,  and 
from  this  devotion  they  receive  in 
return  their  greatest  joy  and  satisfac- 
tion. When  these  parents  them- 
selves may  require  loving  tender- 
ness, sympathy,  help,  and  often  fi- 
nancial support,  it  should  be  the  joy 
of  the  children  to  furnish  any  and 
every  assistance  to  them.  True,  this 
may  entail  long  hours,  months,  or 
even  years  of  nursing;  it  may  require 
giving  up  many  of  the  passing 
pleasures  of  each  day;  it  may  neces- 
sitate, even,  a  partial  disruption  of 
one's  own  family's  life;  in  short,  it 
may  mean  subordinating  one's  own 
desires  to  care  for  the  needs  and  de- 
sires of  another.  But  what  better 
thing  could  one  do  to  experience 
great  satisfaction  and  lasting  joy  than 
to  lovingly  care  for  those  to  whom 
one  owes  his  very  existence  upon  this 
earth?  Then,  when  one's  parents 
have  passed  to  the  Great  Beyond 
there  will  be  no  canker  of  remorse  to 
gnaw  the  soul  over  what  one  might 
have  done  but  neglected  to  do— neg- 
lected until  it  was  forever  too  late. 
And  add  to  the  law  "Honour  thy 
father  and  thy  mother"  another  law, 
"Do  unto  others  as  you  would  have 
others  do  unto  you,"  and  the  great 
truth,  "As  ye  sow  so  shall  ye  reap." 
M.C.S.