[Vol31 | January 1944 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson 7—Loyalty]

Visiting Teachers Messages to the Home

Sources of Strength

Lesson 7—Loyalty
Tuesday, April 4, 1944

TO be loyal to our better selves, to our highest ideals, to our friends, to our country, and to our God, is to give proof of a true and noble soul.

Loyalty does not always rise to great emotional heights. It applies to other days than the Fourth of July. It may manifest itself in the plain duties of ordinary days. We may not be called upon to do spectacular and heroic things as an evidence of our loyalty. Some of us may never follow the flag in battle nor wear the uniform of our country. Still we can be loyal and true. We can be loyal to those who employ us, giving the full equivalent of what we receive. We may be loyal to our religion without becoming martyrs or without going to prison. Loyalty to the Church implies not only a defense of its leaders and people, but a consistent living of the principles of the Gospel. A life that reflects credit upon the Church, after all, is the best expression of loyalty to the Church.

To be loyal to our highest ideals is to give to the world practical proof of our intrinsic worth. The strength to stand steadfastly by one's ideals and standards, in the face of temptation and evil, is finer than the strength required to face physical danger.

Men who never faltered in the shock of battle sometimes yield to the seductive influences of sin and degradation, and forsake their standards and ideals. "To thine own self be true, and it must follow as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man."

Loyalty was the master theme of the Savior's life, the high note running through all that He said and did. And this must be so in the lives of all men and women of intrinsic worth; it is a primary element in every great and noble character.

There are many shining examples of loyalty in Holy Writ. Moses' loyalty to the children of Israel (see Exodus 32)—appeals to us. David's loyalty to Saul, the Lord's anointed, is a classic example of this great virtue.

The supreme expression of it, however, comes to us from the lips of the Master, when He was in the Garden of Gethsemane. We read in Matthew 26:38-39: "Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me. And he went a little further, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt."

Discussion
1. What does it mean to be loyal?
2. What is meant by one's better self?
3. Why is being true to oneself a safeguard against being false to others?
4. How does allegiance to high ideals and high principles give strength to an individual? to a cause?
5. What are the effects of disloyalty?

References
Relief Society Magazine, vol. 16, June 1929, pp. 214-217; vol. 22, May 1935, p. 276
Gospel Doctrine, edition 1919, "Let Us Sustain One Another", p. 320