Read chapter nineteen of Alma, and point out the little touches that indicate the sweet effects that come to one born again by the Spirit. Tomorrow's Cup (Concluded from page 37) "It's the cup you fill today," Paul: Morgan answered, smiling into Janet's eyes. "It's what?"
Jerry was plainly puzzled. "Skip it, Goof!"
Paulette called bluntly from her room across from Jerry's. "Mom and Dad are dating. Where's your finesse?" "Think you're smart!" from Jerry. "So what!" from Paulette, and the house was still. "About tomorrow, Paul."
Janet brought the conversation back. "It's twenty-three years ago tomorrow since we came to El Toro?together." She looked into the fire, saw the years ahead in swift review, then she laughed dubiously. "Twins are a responsibility, Paul. I feel perfectly antiquated beside my amazing daughter. Does Jerry dwarf you?" "I'll say he does. I have to stand on tiptoe all the time to keep abreast of him. We must be getting old!" "Not until they're as old as we are, Paul!"
Janet protested. "Twenty-three years," Paul mused. "We sat alone by the fire then, too. Remember, Jan?" "And the embers glowed long after the flame was gone...." The End 
 ?JANUARY 1944
Thousands of successful office workers and executives in the West? and throughout the nation?have proved for themselves that "L. D. S. Training pays." IT WILL PAY YOU, TOO! Write now for information... Enroll at any time. L. D. S. Business College 70
North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. And Again the View Year! 1944 holds the promise of earth-shaking events. We are told our righteous struggle with the forces of evil may reach its culmination. We hope so. But whatever forebodes, there is no question that fair-dealing in lesser matters than a global struggle finds vindication each day of the year. We are printers, and while war imposes many handicaps on everyone, we renew our pledge to strive to deliver exactly what you order. When you want it, at a fair price. The Deseret News Press 29
Richards Street, Salt Lake City 10
Pioneer printers and binders of the West Vitamin-Filled Word of Wisdom Reupes and Menus Timely guidance to healthful diet for times of plenty and of famine HOW 10 BE WELL Leah D. Widtsoe $2.00 postpaid DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44
East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 10, Utah "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST? When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine His Mother is Happy too! BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OFFICE BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING, SALT LAKE City. UTAH HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT The Outcome of a Beneficial income