[Vol31 | January 1944 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Poem | Title: Contest Award Winners Eliza Contest]

17: Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the June-July 1943 issue of The Relief Society Magazine and which closed September 15, 1943. The first prize of thirty-five dollars is awarded to Vesta P. Crawford, 1067
East Fifth South, Salt Lake City, for her story "The Least of the Flock." The second prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Christie Lund Coles, 2648
Hartford Avenue, Salt Lake City, for her story "We're Not So Different." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Mabel Harmer, 945
South Seventh East, Salt Lake City, for her story "The Pink Angel."
This short story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1941 as a feature of the centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by the editor of a publication of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1944. Prize-winning stories become the property of the General Board and may not be published by others except by written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered Page 18 in the contest, paying for them at the regular Magazine rate at the time of publication. A writer who has received first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.
Twenty manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1943.
This contest is stimulating Latter-day Saint women to do creative writing in the field of fiction. As a whole, the stories show marked improvement in technique over stories submitted in the contest in the past two years. The themes are timely, and vary from the commonplace to the lofty.
There is a serious note present?a definite reflection of the present time. The quality of humor is lacking in most of the stories. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants and expresses appreciation to all whose work was entered in the contest. The General Board sincerely thanks the three judges for their excellent service in selecting the prize-winning stories, and acknowledges with appreciation the work of the General Board's short story contest committee. Stories, together with photographs of the award-winning contestants, will appear in The Relief Society Magazine as follows: January 1944, "The Least of the Flock" by Vesta P.