[Vol31 | January 1944 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Cover The First Snow Photographed]

II?THE TEMPLE SACRIFICES ON THE MORNING OF THE PASSOVER* HE fourteenth day of Nisan "Permanent" Passover. It was the (anciently called Abib) was the Feast of the Passover. On the 15th of Nisan began the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which lasted for seven days or till the 21st of the month. These Feasts always came at the full of the moon.
Croscup has fixed the date of the Feast to which the youth Jesus came, as March 29."
Andrews fixes it on April 6."
Israel soon drew a difference be latter which was celebrated as Jesus went up to the Temple when twelve years old." As every one knows, the Feast was instituted at the time Israel left Egypt. It was an incident of the final plague poured out by the Lord upon Egypt?the death of the firstborn. It was God's way of distinguishing faithful Israel from idolatrous Egypt. The plague brought "a great cry in Egypt."
Pharaoh was humbled. * NOTE: The matters treated in the following installments of this article are so complicated, and in many cases so relatively obscure; the scholars themselves in their discussion are often so vague and indeterminate; even the commandments of the Lord as contained in the Books of Moses are themselves not always identical because of the changing conditions under which Israel was to offer sacrifice?that one cannot be at all certain, in writing about the subject, that he shall accurately represent the real ceremony or principle.
This article is submitted in this view, in all of its installments. It is not unlikely that different views might be found on many of the matters discussed, but no statement has been made herein for which there is not support by some responsible authority ?J. R. C. 58
Croscup, Historical Charts, p. 11. 59/ Andrews, The Life of our Lord, p. 108. 60/ Ex. 12. 61
Edersheim, The Temple, p. 181. Page 3
After the plague, he and his people were "urgent" that Israel should depart, with their flocks and herds. Pharaoh besought Moses: "Bless me also." The Establishment of the Passover The event happened this wise: When the Lord told of the plague to come, He commanded each family in Israel to kill a lamb which should "be without blemish, a male of the first year: ye shall take it out from the sheep, or from the goats." It was to be killed in the evening and each household was to "take of the blood, and strike it on the two side posts and on the upper door post of the houses, wherein they shall eat it."