[Vol31 | January 1944 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Poem | Title: To A]

UNDECLARED  DIVIDENDS
meant  is  to  be  found  in  the  Book  of
Acts  which  recounts  PhiHp's  con-
version of  the  Ethiopian  treasurer.
Phihp  ''began  at  the  same  Scripture,
and  preached  unto  him  .  .  .  .  "  (Acts
8:36).  Phihp  began  at  the  very
point  at  which  the  other  man  had
arrived  in  his  experience  and  gave
him  the  hght  he  needed.  Here  is
an  early  incident  of  hfe-situation
teaching.  It  is  bringing  your  teach-
ing to  the  place  of  particular  experi-
ence and  need.  It  is  in  the  failure
to  meet  this  need  of  the  immediate
situation  that  much  of  our  teaching
is  lacking.
An  athletic  coach  once  said  to  a
student  practicing  the  broad  jump,
"You  go  back  so  far  for  your  run  that
you  are  all  tired  out  when  you  come
to  the  place  to  jump."  A  teacher
who  goes  back  to  a  review  of  Church
history  as  a  prelude  to  his  lesson  runs
back  so  far  that  the  class  is  all  tired
out  when  it  comes  to  the  place  to
jump.  Often  there  is  no  time  for  the
teacher  to  jump.  Frequently  the
class  is  so  far  gone  that  it  does  not
notice  whether  he  jumped  or  not.
One  great  teacher  described  his  ef-
forts to  discover  the  needs  of  his  pu-
pils as  follows:  "It  is  my  custom  to
spend  much  time  here  in  my  class-
room alone.  I  walk  up  and  down  the
aisles.  I  sit  at  my  desk  drinking  in
God's  light  through  the  window.  I
imagine  the  different  individuals  in
the  seats,  seek  an  intimate  compre-
hension of  each  one's  needs,  and  pray
for  the  power  to  meet  these  needs
in  a  sane,  intelligent,  inspired  way.
From  my  classroom  I  go  to  the  street
that  passes  the  school,  and  see  the
people  passing;  bright  faces  and  sad
faces.  There  they  go:  unhappy  faces
on  which  are  written  doubt,  scorn.
and  yearning,  and  a  thousand  evi-.
dences  of  a  lack  of  integration  with
life  and  the  universe.    All  the  faces
reveal  a  hunger  for  reality.    I  reach
out  to  all  of  them."
\T  this  point,  a  warning  is  ap-
propriate of  one  pitfall  in  this  ef-
fort to  bring  the  resources  of  religion
to  the  point  of  practical  need.  It  is
the  delusion  that  personal  needs  can
be  completely  met  or  best  met  by
what  is  often  called  'practical  teach-
ing." Your  teaching  may  be  so  prac-
tical that  it  does  not  rise  six  feet
above  the  ground.  Many  teachers
have  learned  from  humiliating  ex-
periences that  common  sense  cannot
do  the  energizing,  creative  work  of
religion.  "Says  Life  to  Art,  1  love
thee  best  not  when  I  find  in  thee  my
very  face  and  form  expressed  with
dull  fidelity,  but  when  in  thee  my
longing  eyes  behold  continually  the
mystery  of  my  memory,  and  all  I
crave  to  be.'  ""  It  is  very  easy  for
teaching  to  be  too  practical  to  have
any  practical  results.  It  can  be  too
psychological  to  effect  any  psycho-
logical transformation.  It  can  be
too  much  on  the  level  of  daily  life
to  perform  the  miracle  of  a  lift  to  a
new  level  of  power.  This  truth  is
very  effectively  expressed  in  a  pas-
sage in  E.  C.  Raven's  Autobiography,
in  which  he  tells  of  his  disappoint-
ment in  his  boyhood  days  over  the
religious  teaching  which  was  so
watered  down  to  the  supposed  level
of  a  boy's  mind,  that  it  left  out  a
deep  religious  challenge  and  became
a  dead  thing.  He  says,  "I  do  not^_
think  that  Jesus  ever  came  into  our  ^
view,  or  that  God  was  more  than  a
name."  After  describing  the  secukr
and  ethical  nature  of  his  religious
