[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 512 | General Feature | Diet As a Way of Life Margaret | F. Maxwell]

DIET AS A WAY OF LIFE

First of all, don't make dieting so unpleasant that it becomes a regime to which you cannot stick. Your new diet pattern must become a way of life, a new set of habits that you will maintain permanently, not just for a ten weeks' crash program, after which you heave a sigh of relief and go back to your old eating habits (and, incidentally, your old weight). So if you don't already know them, start by getting acquainted with the four basic food groups: milk, meat and eggs, vegetables and fruits, and bread and cereals. Foods chosen from each of these groups should be included in your new diet program each day, both to maintain that glow of health that makes life worth living, and to help take off weight and keep it off.

Group 1: Milk. Weight watchers favor skim milk, either liquid or powdered, a pint (or its powdered equivalent) each day. If you simply don't like skim milk, don't despair. Add powdered skim milk, at least one-half cup to other foods on your menu during the day. Mix it with whole-grain hot cereal; stir it up in cottage cheese, or treat yourself to a "malt" about a half-hour before mealtime to cut down your appetite. Make it this way: To one glass of hot water (as hot as you enjoy drinking), add one-half cup powdered skim milk. Stir briskly until dissolved. Add eight drops non-caloric liquid sweetener (a real boon to weight-watchers), and cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Try it! It's so delicious you'll have the whole family joining you, and they'll never believe how few calories it contains. Cheese is also included in Group 1. Cottage cheese, the dieter's old standby, makes a good addition for

lunch, with or without fruit, either as a salad or plain.

Group 2: Meat and Eggs. Get into the habit of eating a boiled or poached egg for breakfast each morning. Do you know that you can double your egg calorie count simply by scrambling or frying it? As with the much maligned potato and bread, it is what you put on it that counts! Preferably at dinner, include one small serving of lean meat. Beef, lamb, and poultry rate lower on the calorie scale than does pork, and liver is exceedingly nutritious, as well as low in calories. But throw away your frying pan! Roast, braise, boil, or broil all cuts of meat for minimum calories.

Group 3: Vegetables and Fruits. Go heavy on greens! With the exception of green peas, the green and the leafy vegetables and tomatoes are so low in calories that you can practically stuff yourself and not gain weight. But caution. Put a teaspoon of butter on your asparagus, two tablespoons of mayonnaise on your chef's salad bowl, and you may as well stop deceiving yourself about being on a diet. If you are one of those who think there is no use even tasting a green salad unless there is plenty of dressing on it, here are a few hints. First, try your salad (particularly coleslaw) with plain salt and vinegar, or salt and lemon juice as a seasoning. If that doesn't appeal to you, you might try either of the following low-calorie mayonnaise substitutes. The first is simple. It can be mixed on the spot as you make your salad.

LOW-CALORIE MAYONNAISE

Blend together ½ cup skim milk, ½ tsp. mayonnaise, and 1 tsp. salt.

513

JULY 1964

Pour over shredded cabbage or other greens and toss to blend flavors.

The second recipe has the unbelievably low total of three calories per teaspoon of dressing.

THREE-CALORIE MAYONNAISE

Beat one egg. Add 1/4 cup vinegar, 1 1/2 tsp. salt, 1 tbsp. mustard, and 1 tsp. liquid non-caloric sweetener (or 6 saccharin tablets dissolved in vinegar). Beat until frothy. Add 1/4 cup mineral oil, a little at a time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Continue beating until mixture is very thick and will stand up in a rounded peak. Add more vinegar, salt, or sweetener to taste. Add more mineral oil to make about 1 pint dressing. If stored in refrigerator, it will keep indefinitely.

So fill up on greens! Make a big green salad your mainstay for lunch, and eat cooked or raw tomatoes, asparagus, green beans, spinach, or other green vegetables for dinner. But you need not omit the heavier vegetables entirely. Occasionally, include a small serving of beets, carrots, green peas, and squash as variations on your vegetable menu. A small baked or boiled potato seasoned with salt and a teaspoon or less of butter or other shortening may also be a part of your diet each day.

Fruits are essential for the dieter, both for food value and to serve as a pleasant substitute for rich, heavy desserts, which as you know have no place at any time in a reducing diet. Include each day one serving of citrus fruit or juice, or a cup of tomato juice. You may also enjoy one or two small servings of fresh or canned fruit besides this. Avoid

dates, figs, raisins, and prunes; they are high in calories, and when eating canned fruit packaged in syrup, pour off the syrup before eating the fruit.

Group 4: Bread and Cereals. Each day you may include either three slices of whole wheat bread or two slices of rye bread and one serving of whole-grain cooked cereal. You may allow yourself up to three teaspoons of butter or substitute during the course of the day; part of your allowance may be used on bread, and part as a seasoning for vegetables.

That is all there is to it! Learn to be satisfied with small servings of the basic foods; cut off visible fat, pour off syrup from fruit, and, please, no seconds! Dieting is never easy at first; you have become accustomed to loading your stomach with excess food for so long that by now it is probably stretched. For a few days or weeks, it will expect and demand its usual oversupply of food. But if you are determined, in a few days you will find that smaller helpings of food will satisfy you. Eat slowly; take time to enjoy your food. This, too, helps to give you that full feeling.

You may eat your daily allotment of food at any time of the day you wish; however, common sense will tell you that if your food is divided pretty evenly among three meals, you will get through your day with less hunger and more energy.

But remember—this eating pattern is not a trick diet guaranteed to take off twenty-five pounds in two months. This is a new way of life, and you must adopt it with the determination that you are never going back to your old eating habits again. While you are trying to lose

514

DIET AS A WAY OF LIFE

weight (and do check with your doctor before starting any diet), you must not only eat the essential foods specified, but you must also absolutely omit (no cheating now) candy, sodas, sundaes, soft drinks, rich desserts, cream, gravy, olives, bacon and other fat meat, and all fried foods. And hold to an absolute minimum any use of sugar and salad dressing.

Between meals nibbling? Sometimes it can be helpful, if you nibble the right things at the right time. About a half hour before mealtime (especially if you are feeling particularly famished), try a steaming cup of beef or chicken bouillon; it has only seven calories to the cup. Or, once a day, a powdered milk "malt." These may help you to hold the line at mealtime, and say "no" more easily to the temptation foods. And, for a bedtime snack, a tall glass of hot lemonade sweetened with saccharin is a warming and cheering way to end your day.

And, when cooking, particularly desserts, get into the habit of making a few substitutions which materially cut the caloric count of dishes without altering their taste or appearance. In virtually all recipes, skim milk can be substituted for whole milk, and evaporated milk can be substituted for cream, reducing not only the caloric count but the cost of the dish. For light caloric dairy sour cream, substitute a like amount of evaporated milk soured by the addition of one tablespoon of vinegar for each cup of milk. Sour milk may be made in the same way, by the addition of one tablespoon of vinegar to one cup of skim milk. And, when a recipe calls for whipped cream, substitute whipped powdered milk made as follows:

POWDERED WHIPPED MILK TOPPING

½ c. ice water
½ c. powdered milk
½ c. sugar, or 1 tbsp. liquid non-caloric sweetener, or 24 tablets saccharin
2 tbsp. lemon juice

Chill small bowl and beater in refrigerator for one half hour before mixing. Put ice water and powdered milk in bowl. Beat until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, and then add lemon juice. Let stand in refrigerator a few minutes before using. Makes one cup whipped "cream."

So, finally, you have your weight down to the desired level. It has been a long struggle, and you certainly don't want to have to go through that again. So, how are you going to hold the line? First of all, if you don't now own a bathroom scale, invest in one, if possible. And once you have your weight down to where you want it, get into the habit of stepping on the scale to check yourself once each day. Make it the same time every day, as your weight fluctuates normally from two to three pounds during the course of the day. Probably your most flattering time to weigh will be first thing in the morning before breakfast. Then, if you discover that you have put on a pound, do something about it immediately. Don't wait until the pound has become ten. It's no chore to take off one pound, but it can be real misery to get rid of more.

Good luck to you on your new program! And as your scales and your mirror tell you of new beauty and the robust energy and health that goes with right choice of foods, you will be glad you stopped counting calories and got acquainted, instead, with good nutrition.

515
