[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 523 | Fiction | Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 6 Hazel | M. Thomson]

Your Heart to Understanding

Hazel M. Thomson

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a man on horseback, wearing a hat and looking into the distance]

Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sister, travel across the plains with their own outfit, in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance dies at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and later they decide to go to San Bernardino, California, with the saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also are in the company, but are separated for most of the journey after the division of the company. Alfred Quale, who travels with the Blodgetts and Selena, continues an ardent courtship of Selena who appears to enjoy Alfred.

Chapter 6

WITH the heat and discomforts of desert travel behind them, the Lyman company moved on in the last stages of the journey to California. There were new problems, however. The way was rough, tongues and reaches were broken out of the wagons, and stops had to be made for repairs.

The timber along their route came in handy many times.

The animal was weary, greatly weakened by the long, arduous trip, and sometimes as many as twenty oxen were yoked to a wagon to pull it over a particularly steep place. This, of course, slowed the journey. Near the end of the trip Brother Pratt and his missionary group decided to leave the Lyman group and forge on ahead. He rode back bidding goodbye to all with whom he had traveled thus far.

"So you're going on ahead?" Josiah asked, having heard the plan.

"The other missionaries and I are anxious to be on our way. Since there is no particular reason for the rest of you to make great haste now and every reason to give your animals a little time to rest and eat, we are moving on in the morning to the Chino Ranch."

"The Lord bless you, Brother Pratt," said Josiah, shaking the

523

JULY 1964

hand of this man whose journey had barely begun.

"He always does," answered Brother Parley. "Our appointment is to teach the restored gospel to those waiting to hear it in the Islands of the Sea. We must get started with all diligence as soon as possible."

"It takes great faith to go, Brother Parley."

"It will take great faith to stay in California and build up that part of the Lord's vineyard," answered Brother Pratt. "It doesn't matter where we labor, Josiah."

SELENA sat nearby, listening. The words had a familiar ring. She had heard them many times before, but they had never struck her with such force. Nauvoo, Great Salt Lake, California, perhaps the locality didn't matter nearly as much as other things which she had been overlooking.

Her mind was drawn back to the conversation between this apostle of the Lord and her brother-in-law.

"Yes, we plan to send a wagon back with supplies as soon as we get to Los Angeles," Brother Pratt was saying. "We know how low the food supply is. It seems a bit un-Christian to have such concern for the people far away in the Islands and at the same time fail to take care of our own."

Josiah reached down from the wagon and shook hands with the man on horseback.

"Good luck to you, Josiah. May we meet again." Elder Pratt touched his hat and nodded slightly toward Belle and Selena. They watched him ride away, knowing they had been in the presence of a great man.

The rich grasses were welcomed by the animals, many of whom were so thin that their ribs could be counted, and by their owners, giving them assurance that they would have enough animals to make a beginning when they arrived. And at long last they did.

IT WAS June 11, 1851, when the company paused on the edge of the San Bernardino Valley and began looking for a place which would be their permanent settlement. Food supplies were at a low ebb, but the missionary who had gone ahead with Brother Pratt returned with his wagon loaded. The newcomers were as interested in the talk about their entrance into California as they were in the food he had brought.

"What are people saying? What is their attitude?" The questions were asked many times, but the missionary understood, knowing their concern as to whether the experiences suffered by Church members in Missouri and Illinois were to be repeated.

"The news is good," the missionary told them. "The feeling seems to be very favorable concerning our making a permanent settlement. The Angelenos are agreeable, even anxious that we do stop in the San Bernardino Valley, thinking that it will provide a buffer for them."

"Buffer?" Josiah replied. "What do they mean?"

"Well," replied the missionary, smiling, "I've heard several of them say this settlement by the Mormons is going to be a big help in keeping the Indians from sweeping in from their desert haunts to plunder their settle-

524

YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

ments. You will be between the Indian territory and them, and they are taking some comfort in this fact."

Knowing Selena's constant fear of Indians, Belle watched her but could tell little as to whether the missionary's message was having much effect upon her. Outwardly Selena appeared unmoved by the words, which was just as she wished it to be. She knew well enough that, even though their long journey had been completed successfully without the loss of one human life, there were many other problems besetting the leaders, and her small ones were best kept to herself.

As the Lyman company caught up with the advance group, a grove of sycamores offered the first haven of shelter in California to the new settlers. There was plenty of water and feed and the near-starved animals were turned out for their well-earned days of eating and drinking. They must be in a condition to do the farm work that lay ahead. For the leaders there was also the immediate question of where to make the permanent settlement.

"Like to come along, Lon?" asked Brother Rich. "We've got to see Williams as soon as possible and settle the details if he's still willing to sell his Chino Ranch."

LON wondered at Brother Rich's statement. He had thought the purchase all but completed. Oh, he well knew there was little money to complete the transaction, but Lon had not anticipated any change in the attitude of the seller, as Brother Rich evidently did. And Brother Rich proved to be entirely correct.

"Then you have changed your mind entirely about selling the ranch?" Lon noted the note of deep disappointment in Brother Lyman's voice. "I have your letter here, written by your own hand in December, last. You were more than a little anxious to dispose of your holdings. Here, read it for yourself."

"I know what it says," Williams replied, brushing the proffered sheet of paper aside. "But I make this proposition in consequence of ill health, and not being able to manage things as I would wish.' But the months have passed, my health is considerably improved, and as I said, gentlemen, I have at the present no wish to sell."

"Why can't we just homestead, Lon?" This was Belle talking. She wasn't ready even now, thought Selena, to want to move on to land already under cultivation, not Belle. If the land had ever felt the point of another's plow it would be, in a measure, spoiled for Belle. "Why can't we just take up some land of our own?"

"All the productive land around is pretty well taken up," Lon replied. "We must have land that will sustain this large group of people. There is one more possibility right now, Josiah," he said, turning again to her husband.

"J. D. Hunter, who was a captain of the Battalion, is now Indian Agent in Southern California. His suggestion, when he met us after leaving Williams' place yesterday, was to go see the Lugo brothers and make an offer for the Rancho San Bernardino."

525

JULY 1964

Belle's hopes began to rise. Not that she was averse to having her baby in the wagon box. This wouldn't inconvenience her much more than all the traveling had done. It was just that she liked things done in an orderly fashion, and it seemed right and proper to her that her child be born in the permanent settlement, now that they had reached California, and not in some temporary camp.

"You said brothers?" asked Josiah. "Then that means we have more than one to deal with in attempting to buy their land."

"That's right," agreed Lon. "Hunter says there are three of them, Jose del Carmen, Vincente, and Don Antonio Maria Lugo. But he also says that Don Antonio is the boss of the outfit and what he says goes. So all we have to do is convince him that the Mormons need his ranch more than he does, and after this is done, there is the small matter of getting the money to make the down payment."

EARLY in July a copy of the Los Angeles Star was circulated throughout the camp. The piece in which they were most interested read:

The statement that three hundred wagons from Deseret had arrived in the Valley of San Bernardino was an exaggeration. The actual number is one hundred forty. They are not all Mormons, but many of them are, having crossed the plains in the fall of 1850 and wintered in Salt Lake. A large portion of the Mormons will make this Valley their permanent residence. A few will go on to the Sandwich Islands, while others will locate at San Diego from which point supplies for the Salt Lake settlement will be forwarded.

We learn that they are negotiating for the purchase of the Rancho San

526

Bernardino, from the family of Don Antonio Maria Lugo, by whom it is held. This is the site of the Old Mission of San Bernardino. Here, probably, this interesting people will make their first establishment on the shores of the Pacific.

Lon closed the paper and folded it.

"This is quite different from the newspaper notices we received in Illinois and Missouri. It's a relief to see this in print. At least we're not labeled undesirables from the start, though it may very well come later," he added.

"You've been pessimistic about this whole thing from the beginning, Lon. Are you sorry you came?" asked Josiah.

Lon looked past Josiah to a shady spot in the grove where he could see Selena and Alfred sitting close together on a huge log. She was laughing gaily at something Quale had said. Lon watched for only a brief moment, then he looked again at Josiah.

"Not sorry, exactly, but I find myself wondering whether I did myself any good in coming."

JOSIAH understood. "I don't understand Selena," he said. "I doubt if she understands herself. She will say something that makes both me and Belle feel that she's seen enough of Quale. Then I see her with him like this and wonder whether she will be telling us they are getting married."

"When that happens," Lon said quietly, "I'll take one horse and a pack and hit the trail back to Salt Lake."

"Lon! You wouldn't! You couldn't pull out and leave the settlement!"

YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

"The big job was getting here, Josiah. I stayed to see that finished. You say I can't leave. When Selena decides to make her decision, I've already told her this, that if it is in favor of Quale, I'm ready for the return trip."

A few days later Lon left the camp for a time. He had been called to accompany the leaders to the northern part of the State in an effort to raise money for the down payment on the ranch. Josiah, too, had had a chance to make the trip and would have liked very much to go, but thoughts of Belle being left without him at that time, made him decide to stay in camp with her.

Josiah thought it best not to mention to Belle that he had been asked to make the trip. If he gave the slightest inkling that he wished to be going along, he knew how insistent she would be that he do so. This was going to be his first son (it had never occurred to him that it might be a girl), and whether Belle thought it was necessary or not for him to be present, Josiah had no intention of being away when his son was born.

"KEEP your eyes open, Lon," Josiah told him on the morning Lon rode over to say goodbye. "I've always wanted to see some of the gold diggings. How far are you going?"

"There are a number of Mormons working in both San Francisco and Sacramento. We plan to visit Mormon Island and any other mining camps where we hear of members of the Church being located."

Lon removed his right glove, holding his reins lightly in his left hand and leaned down to shake hands with Josiah.

"Good-bye, Josiah," he said. "See you in a few weeks."

"Good-bye, Lon. I'll take good care of Selena while you are away."

Lon replaced his glove and glanced toward the wagon where he could see Belle and Selena watching.

"I have an idea," he said, "that you're going to have plenty of help."

He touched his hat in a farewell gesture to the two women and rode off at a gallop. The parting puzzled Josiah, but then he could not know, and Lon would be the last to tell, of his attempt to see Selena the evening before.

Lon had decided that perhaps he had been too reluctant to make a good fight for the girl he loved. Yet he had a great fear of pushing himself in where he might not be wanted. Then, suddenly, he had decided to make an attempt to see her alone before he had to leave. He had shaved, cleaned up the best he could, and walked through the grove toward Josiah's wagon.

There was a full moon lighting the valley and Lon breathed deeply of the fresh night air. The white trunks of the sycamores stood out plainly in the moonlight. And then Lon saw them. He hadn't intended to spy but when he saw Quale take Selena in his arms, Lon stood transfixed. It was a lingering kiss, and Lon suffered the agony of every second. Then he had turned, moving quickly and silently, glad that they had not noticed him, and returned to his own camp and a sleepless night.

(To be continued)

527
