[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 529 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]

Relief Society; Margaret Nichols; Rosemary Coalwell.

LaVern G. Jackson, President, Yakima Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers of Yakima Ward presented a program of Christmas music, December 22, 1963. At this time the Christmas story was told in scripture and song, narrated by Archie Buys. The Singing Mothers also furnished the music for the Yakima Stake service held on Christmas day. These Singing Mothers enjoyed their weekly practices and look forward to presenting the music for sacrament meeting each month."

Southern States Mission, South Georgia District Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions

Seated: organist Gertrude Robertson; next to Sister Robertson, standing: Katie Henry, President, South Georgia District Relief Society; at Sister Henry's right: Mary Joy Crouch, conductor of the chorus.

Rene Welch, fifth from the right on the front row, and MarDean Bell, ninth from the right on the third row, are counselors to Sister Henry.

Elva G. Ravsten, former supervisor, Southern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "These sisters have furnished music for many occasions — district conferences, inter-faith socials, and just recently for the district Relief Society conference. They are a very happy group, and they love to sing. Many have been inspired by the beautiful music they have rendered. Sister Robertson is indeed an inspiration to the sisters. Her many years of studying and teaching music are now being shared with this group of mothers. Avis Waters is the assistant conductor. Avis and Mary Joy are daughters of Sister Robertson, and they have furnished duets and trios for many funerals, as well as church meetings. The Southern States Mission is very proud of these sisters, as well as of the Singing Mothers in all five of the districts throughout the mission. These sisters love the gospel, and they love to share it with others."

The new supervisor of Relief Society in the Southern States Mission is Mamie Priscilla Adams Hunsaker.

Clearfield Stake (Utah) Poster Display Sets Theme for Visiting Teacher Convention, February 7, 1964

Left to right: Ora Barlow, President, Clearfield Stake Relief Society; Opal Wood, visiting teacher message leader.

Sister Barlow reports: "This spiritually rewarding visiting teacher convention used as a theme 'Truths to Live by From the Doctrine and Covenants—Jewels of Strength.' Beautiful music was rendered by the Singing Mothers under direction of the stake music department, with Mary Blood and Evelyn Butler as directors.

"The poster display set the theme for the convention. It was prepared by Opal Wood, and represents the eight visiting teacher messages for this year. The messages are presented in poster form, with corresponding pictures, along with a miniature model of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as shown in the shadow box, praying in the sacred grove, depicting the channel by which all the revelations were given.

"Sister Mary Ann Adams, who is eighty years old and has been a visiting teacher for fifty-eight years, was honored, and also her granddaughter Carol Adams Kilburn, the youngest visiting teacher in the stake. All visiting teachers who have served for more than twenty-five years were also honored. At the close of the convention, a delicious luncheon was served to approximately 200 sisters."

530

[PHOTOGRAPH - Group of women in white blouses standing behind what appears to be a piano or podium]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Large group of women in white blouses and dark skirts arranged in rows, with two women seated at a piano in the foreground]

[PHOTOGRAPH - Two women examining a display board with "VISITING TEACHERS" sign and various mounted materials including text that reads "Direct Revelation"]

JULY 1964

Scottish Mission Visiting Teachers at Convention
March 14, 1964

At the right, former mission presidency: standing (wearing white sweater), Rachel Wilde, Secretary-Treasurer; Helen Easton, Counselor; seated: Kathleen S. Farnsworth, former President; right of Sister Farnsworth (front): Elizabeth McKittrick, Counselor.

Sister Farnsworth reports: "A delightful convention and social honoring the visiting teachers of the Scottish Mission was held March 14, 1964, at the mission home. The sisters who attended felt that this was a great success, both in spirit and in numbers present. Most of the sisters present were newly called to serve as visiting teachers. Representatives from most of our twenty branches enjoyed the program and received valuable instructions. Members from each branch present participated in the program which consisted of a tribute and a response; a play 'The Improper and the Proper Ways to Do Visiting Teaching;' 'The Key,' a parable of visiting teaching; a question and answer game on visiting teaching; musical numbers; and the film 'Unto the Least of These.' As a special favor, a daffodil corsage (buttonhole) was pinned on each visiting teacher. Refreshments were served. The mission board members were hostesses for this convention."

Ruby Mildred Haight, wife of the new mission president, David B. Haight, is the present supervisor of Relief Society in the Scottish Mission.

Bonneville Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention
November 21, 1963

Left to right: Fay Geary, President, Thirty-Third Ward Relief Society (whose ward had the largest number of visiting teachers attending the convention); Mary Bateman, who has served for fifty-two years; Jeanetta Christensen, who has a record of thirty-nine years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching.

Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, reports: "The visiting teacher convention was held in connection with leadership meeting. Five Relief Society General Board members living within the boundaries of Bonneville Stake, paid glowing tributes to the visiting teachers, each relating some event to stress the importance of the visiting teacher in the Relief Society organization.

"Special tribute was given to our stake visiting teacher message leader Melvira Barlow. Awards of ceramic dolls, typifying visiting teachers, and made by the stake work meeting leader Merelde McKay, were presented as follows: Thirty-Third Ward for having the highest percentage of visiting teachers in attendance; Alberdina Gruman of Douglas Ward for fifty-five years service as a visiting teacher; Mary Bateman of Garden Park Ward for fifty-two years as a visiting teacher; and Jeanetta Christensen of Yale Ward for serving thirty-nine years without interruption.

"A delectable brunch was served to 251 sisters following the program."

532

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH: Large group photo showing multiple rows of women in 1950s-style clothing and dresses, appears to be taken indoors]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Three women standing behind what appears to be a birthday cake with candles. The women are wearing 1950s-style clothing, with one in a dark sweater on the left, one in the middle wearing a light-colored hat, and one on the right wearing glasses and a necklace]

533

[PHOTOGRAPH]

South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers
and Visiting Teacher Message Leaders, at Leadership Meeting
January 24, 1964

Standing at the left, front: Betty T. Erekson, Secretary-Treasurer, South
Cottonwood Stake Relief Society; Momo T. Ushio, First Counselor; Luella W.
Finlinson, President; Helen P. Erekson, Second Counselor.

Sister Finlinson reports: "The South Cottonwood Stake is very proud of
the visiting teaching record established by its eight wards in 1963. Each ward
had 100 per cent visiting teaching for every month of the year. We know that
this was accomplished only through the faithful cooperation of each individual
visiting teacher and the devoted supervisors who ably assisted the presidents in
this accomplishment. We know that there is a definite correlation between a successful visiting teacher program and the strength of a ward Relief Society
organization. We are thrilled with the attendance at visiting teacher meetings
that these wards have had. Our stake average for the year was sixty-one per
cent, with an over-all forty-five per cent average attendance at the other
meetings. This represents an increase of four per cent over 1962. The following
presidents of the wards who accepted the challenge a year ago are: South
Cottonwood, Mary D. Twitchell; Second, Evah C. Green; Third, Phyllis N.
Jensen; Fourth, Patricia E. Martinson; Fifth, Raymona P. Erickson; Sixth,
Marion A. Reed; Seventh, Maxine H. Nelson; and Eighth, Mary W. Lovell.

"At the leadership meeting each ward was given an open-book trophy, with
its record of the past year's visiting teaching record of 100 per cent engraved
on one page. On the other page was engraved its 100 per cent Magazine quota
record. The parent ward, South Cottonwood, has had a 100 per cent visiting
teaching record since 1949, and the Second Ward since it was divided in 1952."

534

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Weber Stake (Utah), Ogden Second Ward Honors Elderly Sisters
at Anniversary Party, March 17, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: Margaret Borger, eighty-two; Rosemond
Packer, eighty-seven; Rosella Williamson, President, Ogden Second Ward
Relief Society; Rachel M. Jensen, ninety-six; Laura Saunders, eighty-four;
Gertrude Smith, eighty-two.

Back row, standing, left to right: Larinda Clark, eighty-three; Dora
Browning, eighty-three; Mary I. Tanner, eighty-six; Lucy Lowder, eighty-two,
Mary Godell, eighty-one; Mary Gregg, eighty-four.

Ione Hurst, President, Weber Stake Relief Society, reports: "This was a
very successful anniversary party, with ninety sisters in attendance. A new
sewing machine was presented to the society. Part of the funds was donated by
friends of Daisy Stigers, a deceased member, who so requested, in lieu of
flowers, for her funeral services. Eleven Relief Society members over eighty
years of age were presented with corsages and introduced as special guests.
Nine others were unable to attend. Other guests given recognition were two
former presidents, stake board members, and twelve former ward members who
had been active in Relief Society.

"After a delicious luncheon, a program entitled 'Memories' was given. The
group joined in singing old-time tunes, after which a fitting tribute to Relief
Society, written by Sister Larkin, President, Ogden Twenty-sixth Ward, was
given with accompanying film slides. One of the sisters sang 'Memories.' Sister
Williamson showed slides of many Relief Society activities she had taken
through the years. Her narration was given in rhyme. A tribute in poetry was
given, honoring the sisters who have died in recent years. Pictures of many of
these sisters were shown. The program fittingly closed with the song 'The Lord's
Prayer.' "

535

Lesson Department
