[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 551 | Lesson | Social Science — The Application of Divine Law to Life Ariel | S. Ballif]
[Social Science — The Application of Divine Law to Life Ariel S. Ballif]

SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government
The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 15—The Application of Divine Law to Life

For Fourth Meeting, October 1964

Objective: To emphasize that religion and life are and must be one.

But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves (James 1:22).

He that receiveth my law and doeth it, the same is my disciple; and he that saith he receiveth it and doeth it not, the same is not my disciple . . . (D&C 41:5).

THESE scriptures have been and still are favorite quotations of speakers. They have been repeated so often that they have almost become verbalisms (a verbalism is an empty form of words) insofar as they inspire any active response in the lives of the hearers.

INTELLIGENT VOLUNTARY ACTION

Christ's action was voluntary even to the giving of his life in the supreme sacrifice. "No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself" (John 10:18). In this, as in all other actions, the Savior was aware of the will of the Father. His every act was in line with the divine plan dictated by truth and righteousness and designed to give full and complete expression to man's potential. The major principle of righteous living is voluntary action, knowing good and evil and choosing the good. Action based on fear, superstition, or ignorance will not bring exaltation nor the full realization of perfection.

THE PERFECT PATTERN INVOLVES ACTION

The Savior's life was one of action in complete agreement with his teachings. Even as a child he pointed out the necessity of being about his Father's business. (Luke 2:49.) In reviewing his life, there is abundant evidence of the application of his own teachings. At the conclusion of his earthly activity and in connection with his appearance to the Nephites on the American Continent, the Father testified to the people that Christ's life on earth had been fully accepted when he said, "Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name — hear ye him" (3 Nephi 11:7). The Savior thus became the ideal pattern for us

551

JULY 1964

to follow. His acceptance of the Father did not come simply through delivering a message and teaching truth. It included a day-by-day performance of the principles of eternal life. He tested out the reality of the first and second great commandments — love of God and love of fellow men. He placed the great stress on service.

In his growing to maturity, Christ went through the usual experience of living among people; he participated in church services; he exercised his trade; he met people in a business way and had his place in a family. His mother pondered in her heart (Luke 2:19) all the things that happened in relation to his divinity for he was the Son of God.

THE IMPORTANCE OF LEADERSHIP

Christ's example of leadership set the pattern for all men, and, particularly, for the Church in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times. He knew the sorrowing and suffering of all the people. He healed the sick, raised the dead, and counseled people in their struggles, both temporal and spiritual. He personally stood the test of temptations in the areas of the greatest human weaknesses, the craze for power and wealth, the lure of the appetites, and the test of faith and humility in relation to the use of the power of God.

The Savior's living testimony of his teachings is of major importance in this lesson. The simplicity of his teachings and living makes his example one which each member of the Church can emulate. The effective functioning of the Church government depends upon a lay leadership. The responsibility of each

member is to be prepared in the divine pattern of leadership. Essential to this is a sense of dedication to the great principles that Christ exemplified in his life.

President Rudger Clawson once said, "When the men holding the Priesthood live up to the ideals of the Priesthood, the Church advances rapidly; when they falter in their duties the progress of the Church lags" (Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 111.)

The Church organization, as we know it, is the structure or instrument through which the Priesthood or power of God can function, but the proper and effective functioning of Church government depends upon the degree of righteousness of the people involved. No ornamentation of the physical structure of the Church can substitute for this.

LEADERSHIP DEFINED

Leadership is the key to the successful functioning of the Church organization. A leader is commonly referred to as a person with the ability to visualize, organize, and energize. In plain words, a leader must have vision, be able to see relationships and implications of the course being proposed. He must be able to develop organization sufficient to meet the demands of the objectives involved, and must have the energy to stimulate the members of his group to action. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the leader must also have the spiritual quality necessary to communicate with divinity and receive divine guidance in his particular assignment.

Great leadership in the Church

552

LESSON DEPARTMENT

comes from a realization of the possibilities or potential of the calling in relation to what can be done for the membership and the part this work can play in building the kingdom of God on earth. A true leader in the Church does not look upon his assignment or calling as a status symbol, but as a challenge to use his talents in the service of the group. He is motivated by love and dedicated to the task of bringing the group to the goal and purpose of the Church, which is perfection and exaltation.

Leadership in the above situation is not based on force or violence. It comes "by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned" (D&C 121:41). This describes the leadership of the Savior. As has been already pointed out, Jesus was a doer of the Word. Leaders in the Church must be members whose lives are consistent with the pattern set by Jesus Christ.

DECISION AND TRUE VIRTUE

People in leadership positions are expected to set the proper example, providing for the members the evidence of the effectiveness of the principles of the gospel in daily living. Nevertheless, each person is responsible for the decisions he makes in relation to divine counsel.

In every human contact, in business, recreation, in school, family, or Church, the rules of right living must be the same. Decisions are made on the basis of the real values in one's standard of living. True virtue is expressed in decision-making which is done on the basis of full knowledge, knowing the right and the wrong and choosing the right. While there may be some variance as to what is right among the different cultures of the world, there can be no question as to what is right and truth in the revelation of God. He is the Author of all that is good and true. As has been pointed out in previous lessons, revelation or divine law is the wisdom or counsel of the Creator given as direction by which man, the creation, can, by his own choice, reach the height of his possibilities.

There are those who argue that right is a matter of interpretation, expediency, or intellectual justification. Too often these arguments are an effort at rationalization to relieve one's mind from criticism of personal behavior.

Virtue is not limited to one area of behavior. It applies to all our decision-making where right and wrong are concerned. The pattern of virtue is formed in the numerous small decisions one makes from day to day.

THE IMPLICATION OF CHOICE

Being confronted with problems is the spice of living. Decision-making is the evidence of the character of the individual. Almost every moment that we are awake we are required to make decisions. The freedom and right to make these decisions by ourselves is a priceless heritage and blessing. To be an accepted member of any group, one's decisions must be controlled, influenced by, or at least in conformity with the values and standards of the group in which he desires membership. One's

553

JULY 1964

claim to acceptance in the Church is based on this sound principle. Church standards are the same for all members whether it be in family relations, in activity on a social plane, in dealings in business operations, or in participation in Church opportunities for service. The action of an accepted member of the kingdom must be motivated by love, guided by wisdom, tempered with justice, consideration, and kindness. He must perform his service with a sincere desire for the improvement of others.

LIVING THE GOSPEL

Madame Marie Curie, a very famous scientist, discovered and applied a method of extracting radium from raw ore. She was able to secure the first ounce of this precious metal. Its dollar value was fantastic and she was poor, but she dedicated her findings to the welfare of mankind. She gave her ounce of radium to the medical profession to be used in the treatment of human ills, an example of true service for the welfare of mankind.

Such outstanding examples of dedicated service can be found in many different fields. Others of less magnitude can be observed in various areas of everyday life. The importance of such examples is to illustrate that human beings are capable of the pattern of conduct Jesus exemplified in every moment of his life. He was the perfect example of human living. There is ample evidence to show that behavior such as he exemplified can be performed by all of us, not occasionally or by chance, but regularly and by choice, recognizing the value of such behavior.

554

Honesty is a habit and virtue grows out of it. Being honest with oneself in relation to the standards and values that have formulated one's philosophy of life, is essential to virtuous living. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the standards and values come from God and are contained in the divine law that directs the Church.

SUMMARY

As previously pointed out, divine law is the counsel of God given to provide direction in the lives of human beings that will assist them in the development of their greatest possibilities and lead them toward perfection, and in the direction of Godhood, man's greatest potential.

The function of Church government from the beginning of time has been to give direction to human association. How to live together successfully has been the major emphasis. In the city of Enoch the people achieved perfection enough to be translated. The people "were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them" (Moses 7:18).

All the sons of Adam had been taught the basic principles of right living, but evidently only the few in Enoch's city put the principles into practice.

Another example is found in The Book of Mormon, 4 Nephi, where the people accepted the divine way of life and lived together in peace for 200 years.

Sacred literature is full of suggestions for right living. There are many who have knowledge of the facts of divine law, but until they apply the principles in their lives, they will not produce right-

eousness. To the degree that we live the teachings of the Savior, to that degree will we become perfect in our human relations and thus become different from the world.

The function of Church government is to produce a standard of behavior like that of the people of Enoch, and the Nephites in 4 Nephi, and to develop the perfection in human conduct patterned after the example of the Savior. "Be ye doers of the word."

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. Do the principles of the gospel interfere with the things you enjoy doing?

2. Is there a difference in your religious behavior and your regular activities in life?

3. What is the relationship between your religion and effective participation as a citizen?

4. In what way were the people of Enoch's time or the people in 4 Nephi different from us?

References

New Testament, the Four Gospels
The Book of Mormon, 3 Nephi; 4 Nephi
Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:18

NOTES ON AUTHORS OF LESSONS

DR. BRUCE B. CLARK

Mr. Bruce B. Clark is Professor of English and Chairman of the English Department at Brigham Young University. Now forty-six years old, he was born in 1918 in Georgetown, Idaho, the son of Marvin and Alice Budge Clark, and a descendant of four pioneer families — the Clarks, Budges, Woolleys, and Athays. Perhaps most notable among his ancestors was his great-grandfather, William Budge, the young Scotch missionary instrumental in converting Karl G. Maeser to the Church. (Karl G. Maeser was called by President Brigham Young in 1876 to organize the Brigham Young University, and William Budge was for many years the President of Bear Lake Stake and of the Logan Temple.)

In 1935 Brother Clark was graduated from Montpelier High School in Montpelier, Idaho. He then attended the University of Utah for three years before interrupting his education to serve a mission in the Northwestern States from 1939 to 1941. Following this mission, he returned to the University of Utah to graduate with a B.A. degree in English in 1943. During World War II he served for three years in the U. S. Army, most of this time in Hawaii as a director of publications at an army post. After the war, he resumed his education, receiving an M.A. in English at Brigham Young University in 1947 and a Ph.D. in English and Philosophy at the University of Utah in 1951. Since 1950 he has been on the English faculty at Brigham Young University, serving as department chairman since 1960.

After filling many other Church positions, he was called to be a bishop in 1954, and after serving seven years in this capacity, was called in 1961 to the High Council of his stake, in which position he served until May 24 of this year, when he was again appointed a bishop.

In addition to his work on a Relief Society literature text, Brother Clark has written many other articles and public addresses, mostly on literature and religion, and is now completing a critical biography of Oscar Wilde for a New York publishing firm. He is a member of many national and state professional organizations and is listed in Who's Who in America. His wife is Ouida Raphael, formerly of Campti, Louisiana, and they are the parents of six children, ages seven to sixteen.

DR. ROBERT K. THOMAS

Dr. Robert K. Thomas, a son of Zeph and Maud Rencher Thomas, was born at Sunnyside, Utah, on July 22, 1917. He moved to Oregon at the age of eight and remained there through college and the first year of graduate school. In 1947, Dr. Thomas was graduated from Reed College in Portland, and in 1949, he received his M.A. Degree from the University of Oregon. After additional graduate

555

JULY 1964

study in American Literature at Columbia, he returned to Utah and Brigham Young University in 1951.

In 1957 he received a Danforth Teacher grant for further study toward a Ph.D. In 1960-61, he was selected by the student body as Professor of the Year. In the same year he was appointed Director of the Brigham Young University Honors program. In 1962, Dr. Thomas coached the team which represented Brigham Young University on the TV "College Quiz Bowl." Dr. Thomas has served as stake Sunday School superintendent, high councilman, and a member of a bishopric. He served on the high council of the Brigham Young University Fourth Stake until May 24 of this year when he was called as bishop of a B.Y.U. ward. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi.

On December 24, 1948, Dr. Thomas was married to Shirley Ann Wilkes in the St. George Temple. The couple now have three children, Cornel, twelve; Ryan, eleven; and Angie, nine.

WINNIFERD CANNON JARDINE

WINNIFERD Cannon Jardine, a daughter of Winifred Merrill and Classon Young Cannon, spent most of her "growing up" years in Ames, Iowa, where her father was a professor at Iowa State College. It was here she received her college education and was graduated in Home Economics Journalism. After graduation, she was a staff member of the Martha Logan Test Kitchen, Swift & Company, Chicago; a member and, later, head of the Home Economics Department, American Meat Institute, Chicago; Director,

Home Economics Department, Radio Station KMBC, Kansas City, Missouri. She was married to Stuart Bryson Jardine in the Salt Lake Temple in 1946. They, together with their family, have lived in Salt Lake City ever since, except for four years spent in Colorado Springs, Colorado. They are the parents of four children: James, Stephen, Mark, and Ann. Mr. Jardine is an agent with The Equitable Life Assurance Society.

Since coming to Salt Lake, Sister Jardine has continued to work in her profession. She was an instructor in foods and nutrition at the University of Utah, and has been food editor of the Deseret News and Salt Lake Telegram for the past fifteen years. She has also been a food consultant and free lance writer, having stories published in such magazines as The Relief Society Magazine, The Improvement Era, The Children's Friend, Better Homes and Gardens, Better Living, Farm Journal, Town Journal, Sunset Magazine, and Successful Farming. Except for her teaching, she has worked entirely from her home. She is a member of the Utah Home Economists in Business, Utah Home Economics Association, and the Utah State Nutrition Council.

Sister Jardine has been a member of the YWMIA General Board and has written various lessons for the MIA manuals. She has been both a ward and stake YWMIA president, has served on both ward and stake boards of the Primary, has been a Relief Society class leader, and is at the present time theology class leader on the East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society Board.
