[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 490 | Special Feature | Disciplining Children in the Latter-day Saint Home | Nell Folkman]

DISCIPLINING CHILDREN IN THE L.D.S. HOME

1. The Gospel of Jesus Christ Is a Gospel of Love

Psychologists tell us that the love a child feels is given to him in the first few months of his life has a great deal to do with his whole outlook on life. The child who feels loved and feels good about himself has the capacity to love and feel warm toward those around him. The unconditional love of parents for each child is the strong foundation upon which all other teachings rest.

2. Children Are Born With the Capacity to Grow and Develop Through Learning and Training

Perhaps this is so self-evident that it might seem unnecessary to include it. However, this concept is an important part of our Heavenly Father's plan. If the child were not a dynamic, growing individual, he could not take part in this marvelous plan. It is important for parents to realize that the child is learning and developing every moment of his life. Regardless of what we do or do not do, the child continues to learn something. It is our responsibility to make sure that he is learning the right things.

3. Children, As Children of God, Are Essentially Good

Christ taught that "Except ye . . . become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven" (Mt. 18:3). In latter-day revelation, the Lord also tells us:

But, behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me (D&C 29:46-47).

To say that children are basically good does not mean that they do not misbehave. It does mean that misbehavior results from different understandable causes (which we will talk about later) rather than from an inherently bad nature.

It is clear that a parent who looks upon the small child as a child of God will react differently to his misbehavior than will one who sees the child as bad.

4. Free Agency Is Basic to Man's Development

One of the main purposes of man's mortal life is to afford him the opportunity to choose between good and evil. The responsibility of parents is to teach their children not only the difference between right and wrong, but also how to make the choice. The child first learns to be obedient to authority. He accepts right choices because he knows that someone who has authority over him (his parent, teacher, the policeman, or others) will approve his doing so, or punish him if he does not. However, there is no particular virtue in refraining from stealing an apple when the policeman is watching. It is only when we refrain when we know nobody will find out, that it becomes a right choice.

WITH these four principles in mind, we need next to define the word discipline. Many parents equate it with punishment. However, Webster defines it as "training that develops self-control,

491

JULY 1964

character, or efficiency." Thus, it becomes a way of teaching rather than a way of punishment. Parents who use this definition of discipline in their philosophy of child training will react differently to problems which arise with their children than will parents who see discipline primarily as punishment.

We can more easily teach children what is right if we try to understand causes of misbehavior. Why do children misbehave?

There are many reasons. Many times a small child does things that are wrong simply because he doesn't know any better. He has not yet learned what is right. Discipline, in this case, would consist of teaching him the right way.

Sometimes the child misbehaves because he has learned that he can get what he wants (and often what he wants is simply attention) by doing something he knows to be irritating or wrong. He prefers punishment to no attention at all. If we give the child sufficient attention and love when he is good, he will not have to resort to bad behavior to get it.

Often out-of-bounds behavior results as a natural consequence of a child's curiosity and his exploratory activities. He finds an object useful for hammering, so he hammers (sometimes on the furniture). He discovers that crayons make lovely marks, so he makes these marks (and it doesn't matter to him where he does it). Here is where channeling behavior is so important. We do not want the child to feel that hammering or drawing with crayons are in themselves unde-

sirable activities—only that there are certain ways we use these tools and certain ways that we do not. So we teach him the acceptable ways.

There are many other causes of misbehavior: a child doesn't feel well, he had a bad day at school, or he is overtired. The point is, if we try to understand why a child misbehaves, we are in a better position to devise ways to teach him, not only to stop his misbehavior, but also what constitutes right behavior.

Often what a child needs is someone who has the patience to show him how to do something right. Children learn slowly, and too often the busy parents assume that a child is being perverse or bad. Children learn faster by rewards than they do by punishments. We should capitalize on the actions we want repeated rather than emphasizing the behavior to be eliminated. This can be done by approving successful and cooperative behavior and by helping the child see where he can do better.

Another method of teaching might be termed diversionary tactics. Under this category would come such things as supplying a pounding board when the child starts hammering the furniture; appropriate places to draw instead of the wall. But to make it work, parents have to make sure the diversion is as attractive as the forbidden object it replaces.

Letting the child suffer the consequences of his own acts is often one of the best methods of discipline. If the child does not get his work done before the time of an outing, he stays home. If he picks a fight, he doesn't get

492

DISCIPLINING CHILDREN IN THE L.D.S. HOME

too much sympathy over the resulting black eye. Of course, this method cannot be used when a child is in real danger. We would not let him run in front of a car just to teach him a lesson.

Deprivation of privileges is another good way to teach. If a toy is not taken care of, it is put away and can't be played with for awhile. If a child cannot get along with his friend, he has to play by himself.

Do not underestimate the power of words in teaching. Explanations and reasoning are often effective with children old enough to understand. Let the child know what he has done wrong, but don't stop there. Go on to help him understand what would have been a better way to behave in those particular circumstances.

If we are thoughtful about the teaching of our children, we can incorporate into our plans several ideas which will make it easier, and the administration of punishment more effective.

1. Let each child know that you respect him as an individual with rights. Take into account his individuality, his personality, his needs, his age, and his condition in deciding what rules must be followed, what punishments are meted out.

2. Have as few rules as possible. As each child matures, encourage him to help make the rules. Make sure demands are reasonable. Then be consistent in seeing that these are obeyed.

3. Decrease the forbidden and uninvestigated by replacing many "don'ts" with such ideas as: "You may do it over here." "Let me show you a safe way." "You may do it while I am with you." This makes it easier for the child to remember the fact that there are things which must remain forbidden.

4. Find opportunities, consistent with his maturity and experience, for the child to make his own decisions. Give him guidance, help him see various consequences, and then let the choice be his.

5. "Let the punishment fit the crime." Make sure the child sees the relationship between the punishment and what he has done wrong. Punishment, when necessary, should be promptly and justly administered. Moderate punishment is usually more effective than that which is overly severe.

6. Give punishment in love. Never threaten to withhold love as a punishment. Differentiate between disapproval of the act and disapproval of the child. "Reproving betimes with sharpness . . . and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved" (D&C 121:43).

If we parents can develop thoughtful attitudes and loving and prayerful hearts, we can become equal to this challenge which our Father in heaven has given us.
