[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 484 | Special Feature | Victory Over Wilderness Alberta | H. Christensen]

Victory Over Wilderness

Alberta H. Christensen
Member, General Board of Relief Society

LOOKING westward from my window, I see a wide and beautiful valley. It is peopled and prosperous. Commerce and industry speak through structures of brick and steel outlined against the sky. There are parks and municipal rose gardens. In full summer lilac are sycamore, oak, and the flowering hawthorne. Orchard fruit is maturing and the fields beyond are amber with ripening wheat.

And yet, a mere one hundred and seventeen years ago this valley floor was barren waste. Only the gray sage and sand and mountains rimmed the inland sea. What brought these dormant acres into productivity? What wand of magic urged the green blade above the arid loam? Unity of effort wrought this miracle. Men and women whose faith was stronger than sorrow, than hardship, than self-denial, won this victory over wilderness.

"The world owes much to men and women who have felt that God had a work for them to do," writes Dr. J. Leonard Arrington. The Mormon pioneers believed that God had a work for them to do, a pattern to follow. Such belief was basic to their pioneering, underlying all early Mormon settlement of the West. It gave purpose and meaning to an incredible march over hundreds of miles of rough and roadless land; to the dream of establishing a commonwealth in a desert.

Such dedication to conviction led thousands of converts in the Eastern United States to exchange the comforts of long established living, for the uncertainties of pioneer life. It led thousands of converts in Europe to hazard an ocean voyage and life in a faraway and unfamiliar land.

A deep and substantial faith that the Church leadership was

an inspired leadership gave them additional courage, for the pioneer trail did not always end with arrival in the Salt Lake Valley. Many of those early pioneers were counseled by the Church to leave their so newly established homes in the mountain valleys, and to explore and settle other and even more forbidding regions. Almost beyond belief is the pioneering of the San Juan River Basin, and the crossing of the Colorado River through the perilous Hole in the Rock. Only the willing of spirit and the brave of heart would have attempted that pioneering assignment, and only the obedient, the willing and dedicated could have brought it to fulfillment.

THIS belief in the truthfulness of the gospel and in the divinely ordained mission of the Church fortified my own paternal grandmother in the early years of the

Church, as she left home and friends in Blaenvon, Wales, to go to America. She would be traveling with five small sons but without her husband. My grandfather had emigrated months before in order to obtain employment and money to send for the family. The little boys were recovering from whooping cough when the "Dreadnought" left port, and the youngest child, dying en route, was buried in the Atlantic. Yet grandmother did not regret her decision, nor was her faith diminished by the nearly four-month journey by ox team across the plains.

When we speak of pioneering, we often think only of the strong and vigorous men who blazed a path through the wild, unsettled frontier. But to establish the foundation for continuing family and community life, women were also needed, and more than strength of sinew was required.

484                                                                                                                           485

JULY 1964

What of the women in the Mormon pioneering experience? What role did they play? Whether by ox team or handcart, the women assumed their share of the burdens of the trail, often walking part or all of the way. My own grandmother walked about two-thirds of the distance across the plains, carrying her infant son (my father) in a Paisley shawl tied firmly around her waist, while helping the boys "drive the loose stock they were bringing with them."

Once in the valley, the role of the women was of major importance. All facets of their natures were challenged by the many and stern realities of pioneering life. They were not only wives and the bearers of children, but they assisted materially in the economy of the struggling settlements. They carried out, collectively, many special assignments given them by President Brigham Young and immediately succeeding Church Presidents.

All who are familiar with the fascinating story of Relief Society through the years, know of its cooperative efforts in promoting home industry that the communities might become as self-sustaining as possible. Sericulture, cooperative merchandising of articles made locally by the women, the gleaning and storing of wheat — all assigned projects — are evidence that pioneer Mormon women were considered a real factor in the temporal as well as the spiritual development of the Church. The various angles of the silk-culture venture, and the many ways by which that once more profitable assignment of gathering and storing wheat was

accomplished, constitute some of the most interesting chapters in the history of Relief Society.

But it is not these cooperative efforts, only, valuable as they were to community and the Church, that warm my heart and kindle my loyalty. I am thinking of them, today, in their more individual and intimate role of pioneer wife, pioneer mother, and pioneer neighbor.

They possessed the ability to evaluate life experiences objectively, and to cut irrelevance away. Things of secondary importance needed to wait until primary needs were met. Food, shelter, and clothing were important for all—for a neighbor as well as for oneself. And thus a sharing, one with another, and a neighborly watchcare, were nourished in the community. I think of the woman who took a neighbor's baby, nursing it with her own child for many weeks, until the stricken mother was well enough again to care for her own child. I think of the dried fruit, the clothing, and the many loaves of bread willingly shared with neighbors who were in greater need.

In spite of the wisdom and need to satisfy physical demands first, our pioneer women did not overlook the need for beauty. They could not. Inherent in women's nature is the desire to beautify home surroundings. Moreover, those pioneer women were refined, cultured women. Many of them had come from well-established homes and were familiar with the refining influence of the arts. They brought bits of beauty with them from faraway places, carefully protected

486

VICTORY OVER WILDERNESS

during the long trek—the Staffordshire vase from England, the little brass kettle from a Scottish highland home, the precious china set, and the jet-beaded cape from Boston.

And they created beauty. Even in the log cabin and the early adobe houses, there were braided rugs adding interest and color to the hearth; there were the pieced quilts, attractively designed and finely stitched. Flowers grew from seeds brought all the way from "back home," and there were flower arrangements, made by skillful fingers from human hair, framed or protected under domes of glass.

I think of the adaptability of those wise women, changing what could be changed, but accepting the inevitable as such, without loss of faith, without resentment. There were lean years when harvests were meager. There were epidemics of sickness, demanding faith and courage. There were babies to bear in crowded and often isolated homes.

I think of my own grandmother, a loved and dependable midwife. According to her biography, she was interested in nursing and medicine even as a young girl in England. Because of her keen interest, she was often allowed to observe the town physician render medical services, even to such operations as the amputation of a limb. It was as if she were being prepared for the important role she was to play years later, in the pioneer communities of Utah Valley. I envision her horse and buggy journeys through many years, and through all seasons and all hours of day or night, to assist in the birth of a child. I think of the assurance her confident skill must have brought to the anxious household.

I think of the pioneer mother's resourcefulness in creating what could not be had otherwise. She improvised, used every resource available, with nothing wasted, that her growing family might be neatly clothed. Curtailment can be a great motivator, stimulating creativity and eventually placing emphasis where it should be, upon the doing, rather than upon merely having.

I recall hearing my mother relate many times, and with the light of satisfaction in her eyes, of making a bonnet to last through all her teen years. She would glean the wheat straws from the fields. Then, braiding them into three, four, or even eight strands, would sew them into attractive hats. To the end of his long life, my father could not see any of his six daughters wear a wide-brimmed summer hat, without referring to the attractive hats that mother used to make and wear. He would add nostalgically, "With drooping brim and flowers and a bow."

I think of the pioneer wife concealing from her husband, for he already had burden enough to bear, her loneliness for family and friends back home, who had not been able to see the light of the gospel message. In these days of material abundance and uncertain values, I think of the great reserve of inner strength, unconsciously developed by such self-discipline. Victory over the wilderness was more than triumph over land and drought, it was also victory over the wilderness within oneself. Many of

487

those pioneer women must have learned, as all who would be happy must learn, soon or late, that happiness comes from within, and that it can be nourished by small and simple joys.

Family solidarity is developed when children are taught, in early youth, to share in essential family projects. It can give them the feeling of being important and needed. I have heard mother tell of making tallow candles each fall for winter use; of cording, spinning and dyeing yarn; of the many pairs of socks she knit, even as a young girl, for her father and brothers.

In spite of the need for strict frugality and in spite of much self-denial, pioneer life was not generally somber. It was challenging and vital and faith-promoting. Through thousands of stories cherished by descendants of that stalwart vanguard, come vivid pictures of those early days. There was the jolly quilting bee, the corn husking party, the basket-lunch social. There were children making gifts and Christmas tree ornaments from practically "nothing." There was the indispensable town band, the singing in the parlor, the melodrama presented by "all home talent," for the Church encouraged the development of cultural arts.

There were the long winter evenings of listening to father read or of hearing grandmother or Aunt Martha tell, over again, how the gospel message first came to their door. No child could ever forget that.

And then there was prayer—the family prayer, morning, meeting, than all to remember. It was a long prayer. Sometimes a child wondered if it would ever end. But it was impressive, sincere, and simply stated. It was a prayer of gratitude for the blessing of life, for a more abundant crop, or for rain, or that the neighbor boy had been restored to health, and for each other. I can hear my own father's mellow voice, reaching through the years with these always final words: ". . . and help us to remain faithful to the end." Family prayer—what a fitting prelude to sleep and to the challenge of another day!

Our Pioneer Centenarians

Bertha A. Kleinman

A Centenary hails you at your journey's ending,
Where crystal waves caress a far-flung shore,
When you embark beyond the world's contending,
To share a haven-refuge evermore.

Long have you trudged the endless furrows, tilling
The stubborn soil for other hands to reap,
Mingling your tears with gracious rain distilling,
Prayerful for scanty fare and wearied sleep.

Roses—my gardens teem with their abundance,
Where feet of yours have trod the rugged space,
Yours be the altar of their sky-born fragrance,
That wafts like incense at the throne of grace.

488

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Josef Muench
