[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 499 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

MRS. CORA STAVIG, Sioux Falls, South Dakota, wife of Dr. L. M. Stavig, President of Augustana College, was chosen American Mother of the Year, during the five day ceremonies in New York City in May. Mother of four sons, all professional men successful in their chosen fields, Mrs. Stavig, was cited for her contributions to international understanding through "people to people" diplomacy, and for her leadership in marriage counseling and adult education.

MRS. LURENE ELDREDGE WARNICK, Pleasant Grove, Utah, wife of Merrill Warnick, former president of the National Dairy Council and former president of Timpanogos Stake, represented Utah. She is the mother of eight outstanding children, is a leader in educational and cultural affairs in her community, and has long been prominent in Relief Society work.

MRS. EMMA LAVERA WILLIAMS CALVERT, Caliente, Nevada, mother of seven children, and President of Caliente Ward Relief Society, attended the meetings as the Nevada Mother. Widowed when her children were young, she educated her family through her own efforts, and sent four of them on missions, and at the same time played an active role in the educational and civic affairs of her community.

MRS. JERRIE MOCK became the first woman to fly solo around the world when she set down her single-engine Cessna 108 plane, "Spirit of Columbus," at Port Columbus, Ohio, April 17, 1964. The thirty-eight year old housewife was greeted by her husband, Russell Mock, and their three children. The aviatrix, also the first woman to fly the Pacific Ocean solo, logged about 200 hours of flying time, via Bermuda, the Azores, Casablanca, Tripoli, Cairo, Dhahran, Pakistan, India, Thailand, the Philippines, Guam, Wake, and Honolulu — more than 22,858 miles. Joan Merriam Smith became the second aviatrix to circle the globe. She landed her Piper Apache at Oakland Airport May 13th.

MRS. RUTH G. VAN CLEVE, a career government attorney, was sworn in on April 16, 1964, as director of the Office of Territories, the first woman to fill such an important post in the United States. Department of the Interior. With the Department since 1950, she has given outstanding service as assistant interior solicitor in the Division of Territories, Wildlife, and Parks.

DAME SYBIL THORNDYKE, England's beloved older actress, performed in the stellar role in "Measure for Measure," in London, June 15, 1963, at the closing performance of the fabled "Old Vic" theater—home of Shakespearean drama for many generations. A picture of Dame Sybil, surrounded by the cast as she made the farewell speech following the final curtain, was shown in various countries at exhibitions honoring the four hundredth anniversary of Shakespeare's birth (April 23, 1564).

499

EDITORIAL

From childhood one is cautioned when angry to count ten before speaking, to learn to control one's temper; that "pretty is as pretty does." One hears in Sunday School of the choosing of King Saul's successor—David—and is told how, one after another, the handsome sons of Jesse were brought before Samuel, but the one to be chosen was none of them. The chosen one was a mere youth, and the Lord admonished Samuel, "Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature . . . for the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart" (I Samuel 16:7).

As the years of one's life lengthen, one draws inevitably closer to the end of this earth life and a return to the realms of the eternal. Which of the kingdoms has one prepared herself through earth life to inherit—the celestial, terrestrial, or telestial, or even a kingdom without glory? The trite words of youth, "pretty is as pretty does," take on real significance with reference to cleansing the soul of ugly, dark evils and lightening the soul toward perfection.

One woman said, "I am not afraid of being judged by my actions; I'm afraid of being judged by my thoughts." This feeling may be shared by the many. What is the difference — or is there one between a sister who pays her tithing with joy in her heart at the opportunity of returning to her Father one-tenth of the means he has bestowed upon her, and the sister who pays grudgingly? One sister who nurses another with gladness in a spirit of love; and a second sister who nurses another, seemingly cheerful but inwardly unhappy, and doing it from a sense of duty alone? A sister who speaks heartfelt, friendly words to an

[LOGO: Circular logo with "CHARITY NEVER FAILETH" around the border and "RS" in the center, with "1842" below]

VOLUME 51   JULY 1964   NUMBER 7

• Belle S. Spafford, President
• Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
• Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
• Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer
