[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 493 | Lesson | Faith Catherine | B. Bowles]

Faith

Catherine B. Bowles

There is recompense on the path of life
Though thorny the road. There will always be
A bright colored rainbow to light the sky
Over trials, to smooth the path to eternity.

493

Don't Leave Me

Helen B. Gibbons

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a man's profile on the left and a woman in period dress standing by a window on the right]

LUCRETIA filled a steaming bowl with cornmeal mush for Jim, taking care not to spill on her bright rag carpet. The new cabin had a sweet smell about it, a neatness and warmth, but there was no pleasure in the pretty room for her this morning. She went and stood unseemingly at the tiny window.

"Aren't you going to eat, Crishy?" Jim's face was clouded but his voice tender. "You need it, for the baby's sake as well as you own."

She could not even look at him. Her eyes were red from sleeplessness and frustrated weeping.

"I couldn't swallow a bite."

They had talked half the night. Now there was nothing left to say. Jim ate his mush and milk in silence while Lucretia nervously busied herself about the room, smoothing the fresh straw mattress on their bed, pulling up the clean quilts. With the dipper from the bucket, she watered the geranium on the window-ledge.

Half her mind kept silently insisting, I won't go! I can't go! But the other half yearned for the sweet safety of her husband's approval. Without turning to look, she could see his square bronzed face, and his light, bright hair. Even in homespun work clothes he looked magnificent. She had often reflected that this handsome outer form was but the mirror image of his powerful inner character. She loved him so much that an estrangement now was pure agony.

"Surely we won't leave Jamie," she pleaded softly at last. "Must we so soon forget our promise?"

Jim frowned, but he kissed her before he spoke.

"Don't, Crishy. Don't torture yourself. We have been called on a mission. Everything will

494

work out all right, the way it's supposed to. Don't worry."

He pulled his long arms into an old, warm coat, and started out the door.

"I'll be back as early as I can."

Lucretia nodded numbly and watched him hitch the team to the wagon and set off toward the east mountains for a load of winter firewood. The wagon wheels stirred up circles of dust, rolled along by canyon breezes. The first glint of sunlight flashed over the hill, and in its gleam the silhouette of a rough headstone caught Lucretia's eye.

Seeing it, she ached anew, and an involuntary sob slipped past her throat. They had laid Jamie there so recently, a boy too young, too wonderful to go so soon. Jim and Lucretia had lovingly hauled the granite slab to mark the fresh-turned grave. For days Jim had chiseled at the stone, briefly to state its purpose:

JAMES PHILLIP CURRIE
1850-1864

IT had been Jamie's wish to remain near them, so they had placed him there above the family farm. His very last words had been a plea, coming from the depths of the nightmare he had suffered so long: "
