[Vol51 | July 1964 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Lesson | Title: 551 Social Science — The Application of Divine Law to Life Ariel S. Ballif]
social. There were children making gifts and Christmas tree ornaments from practically Our Pioneer "nothing." There was the indispensable town band, the singing in the parlor, the melodrama presented by "all home talent," for the Church encouraged the development of cultural arts. There were the long winter evenings of listening to father read or of hearing grandmother or Aunt Martha tell, over again, how the gospel message first came to their door. No child could ever forget that. And then there was prayer — the family prayer, more precious than all to remember. It was a long prayer. Sometimes a child wondered if it would ever end. But it was impressive, sincere, and simply stated. It was a prayer of gratitude for the blessing of life, for a more abundant crop, or for rain, or that the neighbor boy had been restored to health, and for each other. I can hear my own father's mellow voice, reaching through the years with these always final words: "'... And help us to remain faithful to the end." Family prayer — what a fitting prelude to sleep and to the challenge of another day! Centenarians Bertha A. Kleinman A Centenary hails you at your journey's ending, Where crystal waves caress a far-flung shore, When you embark beyond the world's contending, To share a haven-refuge evermore. Long have you trudged the endless furrows, tilling The stubborn soil for other hands to reap, Mingling your tears with gracious rain distilling, Prayerful for scanty fare and wearied sleep. Roses—my gardens teem with their abundance, Where feet of yours have trod the rugged space, Yours be the attar of their sky-born fragrance, That wafts like incense at the throne of grace.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_07_08_Lssn_Night_Hill.txt) ===
civic affairs of her community. MRS. JERRIE MOCK became the first woman to fly solo around the world when she set down her single-engine Cessna 108 plane, ''Spirit of Columbus,'' at Port Columbus, Ohio, April 17, 1964. The thirty-eight-year-old housewife was greeted by her husband, Russell Mock, and their three children. The aviatrix, also the first woman to fly the Pacific Ocean solo, logged about 200 hours of flying time, via Bermuda, the Azores, Casablanca, Tripoli, Cairo, Dhahran, Pakistan, India, Thailand, the Philippines, Guam, Wake, and Honolulu — more than 22,858 miles. Joan Merriam Smith became the second aviatrix to circle the globe. She landed her Piper Apache at Oakland Airport May 13th. MRS. RUTH G. VAN CLEVE, a career government attorney, was sworn in on April 16, 1964, as director of the Office of Territories, the first woman to fill such an important post in the United States Department of the Interior. With the Department since 1950, she has given outstanding service as assistant interior solicitor in the Division of Territories, Wildlife, and Parks. DAME SYBIL THORNDYKE, England's beloved older actress, performed in the stellar role in ''Measure for Measure,"' in London, June 15, 1963, at the closing performance of the fabled ''Old Vic'' theater—home of Shakespearean drama for many generations. A picture of Dame Sybil, surrounded by the cast as she made the farewell speech following the final curtain, was shown in various countries at exhibitions honoring the four hundredth anniversary of Shakespeare's birth (April 23, 1564).

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V51_07_12_Lssn_Alchemy_Fairbairn.txt) ===
RELIEF Society Presidents come in assorted sizes and shapes. Bishops revere them, stake presidents honor them—husbands put up with them. One of the prime requisites for her job is a strong back and a pair of willing hands. She is endlessly toting things like turkeys, boxes—always full—chairs, dishes, trees, casseroles—and occasionally—babies. The trunk of her car rotates between looking like the