[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 555 | Lesson | Notes on the Authors of the Lessons | ]

JULY 1964

study in American Literature at Columbia, he returned to Utah and Brigham Young University in 1951.

In 1957 he received a Danforth Teacher grant for further study toward a Ph.D. In 1960-61, he was selected by the student body as Professor of the Year. In the same year he was appointed Director of the Brigham Young University Honors program. In 1962, Dr. Thomas coached the team which represented Brigham Young University on the TV "College Quiz Bowl." Dr. Thomas has served as stake Sunday School superintendent, high councilman, and a member of a bishopric. He served on the high council of the Brigham Young University Fourth Stake until May 24 of this year when he was called as bishop of a B.Y.U. ward. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi.

On December 24, 1948, Dr. Thomas was married to Shirley Ann Wilkes in the St. George Temple. The couple now have three children, Cornel, twelve; Ryan, eleven; and Angie, nine.

WINNIFERD CANNON JARDINE

WINNIFERD Cannon Jardine, a daughter of Winifred Merrill and Classon Young Cannon, spent most of her "growing up" years in Ames, Iowa, where her father was a professor at Iowa State College. It was here she received her college education and was graduated in Home Economics Journalism. After graduation, she was a staff member of the Martha Logan Test Kitchen, Swift & Company, Chicago; a member and, later, head of the Home Economics Department, American Meat Institute, Chicago; Director,

Home Economics Department, Radio Station KMBC, Kansas City, Missouri. She was married to Stuart Bryson Jardine in the Salt Lake Temple in 1946. They, together with their family, have lived in Salt Lake City ever since, except for four years spent in Colorado Springs, Colorado. They are the parents of four children: James, Stephen, Mark, and Ann. Mr. Jardine is an agent with The Equitable Life Assurance Society.

Since coming to Salt Lake, Sister Jardine has continued to work in her profession. She was an instructor in foods and nutrition at the University of Utah, and has been food editor of the Deseret News and Salt Lake Telegram for the past fifteen years. She has also been a food consultant and free lance writer, having stories published in such magazines as The Relief Society Magazine, The Improvement Era, The Children's Friend, Better Homes and Gardens, Better Living, Farm Journal, Town Journal, Sunset Magazine, and Successful Farming. Except for her teaching, she has worked entirely from her home. She is a member of the Utah Home Economists in Business, Utah Home Economics Association, and the Utah State Nutrition Council.

Sister Jardine has been a member of the YWMIA General Board and has written various lessons for the MIA manuals. She has been both a ward and stake YWMIA president, has served on both ward and stake boards of the Primary, has been a Relief Society class leader, and is at the present time theology class leader on the East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society Board.

TO MY DEAR SISTERS IN RELIEF SOCIETY

Marion Mallorie
Farnborough, Hampshire, England

Something wonderful stirs at my heart,
When I think how united we are.
We each play a valuable part,
Each one in a different way.

And yet we are all working together
And to one Heavenly Father we pray.

Ours is a beautiful labor,
Each one has a beautiful task—
To fulfill the commandments of Christ,
And to give unto those who will ask.

556
