[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 519 | General Feature | The Sego Lily — Flower of the Pioneers | Celia Luce]

The Sego Lily — Flower of the Pioneers
Celia Luce

THE people were hungry. It was early spring in 1848 in Salt Lake Valley. Nearly 2,000 pioneers had very little food and faced starvation. The Indians were hungry, too. They dug thistle roots and the sweet bulb of the sego lily. Hungry pioneers watched them and began digging the sego bulbs, also.

The sego lily was used for food by pioneers in early settlements all over the State. My grandmother, Lorena Washburn Larsen, lived in early days in Manti. In her autobiography she describes how they used to dig the sego bulbs.

"In my childhood days our whole group of children used to go east of town, each carrying a sego digger. It was a piece of wood sharpened on one end, and flat on the other. We would go just east of town and look for segos, which were quite plentiful. When we found them we each went to digging by putting the sharp end of the stick into the ground close beside the sego and pressing down on the flat end of the digger. . . . When the stick was far enough in the ground to suit us, we just pushed it to one side, and up came the segos. Then we ate them. Oh, how we enjoyed hunting them."

In Utah this lovely flower, the State flower, is called the sego lily. In most of the West it is called the mariposa lily. Mariposa means butterfly in Spanish.

Sego or mariposa lilies come in many shades. Utah's state flower has the scientific name of Calochortus nuttallii. Some of the bright lavender or red-orange ones are named Calochortus Kennedyi. Under any name it is a beautiful flower.

519

I'm Writing Five Books

Janice Dixon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young boy in shorts and suspenders holding an open book]

Look at my book!" my four-year-old son, Danny, might say to you if you were a visitor in our home. He is very proud of his book, a book all about him. You would be lucky to get away without seeing all five scrapbooks, one for each of our children.

Just another photo album, you might say. It is a photo album, but we use heavy, bound scrapbooks and make them an up-to-date life coverage of each child separately. This way there is no fighting for pictures when the children get older. We divide the pictures equally now. We also include important happenings in their lives, such as birth certificates (photostats), blessings, special letters from grandparents, and an anecdotal history of each child.

In Danny's book you might read: "Today your father went in a plane to New Mexico. Danny watched the plane soar into the sky. 'Where's Daddy going?' he asked. 'Down to New Mexico,' I answered. 'No, Mommy, he's going up to New Mexico.'"

We are careful to include full dates on every picture and incident. First words are interesting to all children, they want to know exactly what they did when they were

520
