[Vol51 | July 1964 | Page 546 | Lesson | Literature — The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature Robert | K. Thomas]
[Literature — The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature Robert K. Thomas]

literature, and it, too, can be both taught and learned. The trouble here is that we do not think it important to discriminate precisely in literature. We are reluctant to accept a sales clerk's glib description of a dress without trying it on and checking its construction. We also recognize the profound necessity for each person to work out his own spiritual salvation, but we may be content to read non-religious books uncritically or sit by while a teacher talks about literature. Perhaps we think that because we are reading or listening only for enjoyment that we can be passive and undiscriminating.

Such an attitude is frightening because it is just while we are in such a passive state that we are most susceptible to influence. We are also apt to be overawed by those who tell us what various literary works mean, and we are tempted to let others make our literary judgments for us. This is both unnecessary and unfair, unfair to the authors and works we study and, most of all, unfair to ourselves. We lose the growth which critical development brings. No vague appreciation of literature provides this. We must learn

to discern, to become critics, in order to help ourselves and our families to choose the best guides for life, and few influences are as potent as the material we read.

FOUR MAJOR CRITICAL METHODS

The first section of the text for this year gives a detailed account of the four major critical positions which you will need to be aware of if you want to develop critical sensitivity. The discussion there is mildly technical in order to provide the background for the basic understanding of critical theory. You can become a competent critic—and know the thrill of being able to make your own judgments—if you focus on the method which each position stresses.

A. Emphasizing the Message.
The first approach emphasizes the message of the work. It is referred to as the Platonic method, after the Greek philosopher. What does the poem or story say to you? Since what the poem says to you will be determined, in large part, by what you bring to the poem, you find yourself judging it on the basis of your experience and beliefs. If the poem is about nature, and you bring a deep love of nature to the reading or hearing of the poem, it will mean more to you than to one who doesn't share your enthusiasm for the out-of-doors. It may well mean something to you as a Latter-day Saint that it will not mean to friends of other religious faiths. The standards which you use in evaluating this poem are set by your experience and convictions before you begin reading. Let us

547

JULY 1964

illustrate this in examining a poem by this first approach:

THE CROSS OF SNOW

In the long, sleepless watches of the night,
A gentle face—the face of one long dead—
Looks at me from the wall, where round its head
The night-lamp casts a halo of pale light.
Here in this room she died; and soul more white
Never through the martyrdom of fire was led
To its repose; nor can in books be read
The legend of a life more bencdight.
There is a mountain in the distant West,
That, sun-defying, in its deep ravines
Displays a cross of snow upon its side.
Such is the cross I wear upon my breast
These eighteen years, through all the changing scenes
And seasons, changeless since the day she died.

The poem is obviously one of loss, the loss of a loved one who apparently died by fire. While you have not had an exactly comparable experience you probably have lost, by death, someone very dear to you. You reflect that your loss also took place long ago, but it is still vivid, and you appreciate the author's symbol of the cross of snow—with all its suggestions of suffering — for it describes your own feelings well. Faith in a hereafter, however, partially tempers your sorrow, and you do not quite identify with the despairing tone of the concluding lines. This poem appeals to anyone who has experienced the death of a loved one, but you would have to share the author's religious convictions, which do not appear very hopeful here, to identify with this poem totally.

B. Finding Critical Standards Within the Work. The second approach stresses the form of the work rather than its message and requires some knowledge of literary types. It is often called the Aristotelian method, after Aristotle, pupil of Plato. This approach focuses on the form in which the poem is written. Let us demonstrate this by considering the same poem we looked at earlier. You still do not care who wrote it, but you do care about its structure and the relation of part to part in the poem. You note immediately that it is a sonnet. You check to see if the poem is unified by a strong but single emotion, and find that it is. You also note that the author has handled the two-part nature of the sonnet well. The first eight lines develop the situation; the last six give it symbolic and memorable expression. The images are consistent and precise. The author's constant guarding of a saintly memory is conveyed effectively by such words as "watches," "halo," "bencdight," and "changeless." The suddenness of the catastrophe is beautifully illustrated by the uninterrupted phrase from the middle of line five to the middle of line seven. And nothing is more impressive in setting the despairing tone of the poem than the position given the word changeless in the last line. Coming as it does, it forces you to emphasize it, and in so doing leaves exactly the impact necessary to conclude this tightly controlled poem.

C. Emphasizing the Author. The third approach tries to illuminate the work by considering the

548

LESSON DEPARTMENT

author and the background of the poem. This is often referred to with reference to the locus Loci, genus, a Greek philosopher, and emphasizes research. If we consider the conditions under which a poem is written, we may be able to understand allusions and references which would otherwise be obscure. The author's experience may add richness to our interpretation of his work. If we look at the same poem we have been examining, we need to know immediately that the author is Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and that he is writing in memory of his beloved wife whose dress caught fire from the candles of the Christmas tree. Although Longfellow tried desperately to smother the fire, and received severe burns himself, he was not able to save her. With the possible exception of Nathaniel Hawthorne and Mark Twain, no well-known American writer had a happier marriage than Longfellow. He adored his wife, and her death seemed to him to have a depth of anonymousness in that she died as so many other saints had done—by fire. The fact that it occurred near Christmas was also suggestive to him and probably helped in the choice of his concluding symbol—the cross.

D. Acknowledging the Verdict of Time. The fourth position is a very practical one, after Horace, the Roman. It suggests that you check to see what other people have thought about the work you are examining. If a poem continues to be read and discussed year after year, if it gives pleasure and inspiration to succeeding generations, it cannot be discounted whether it seems to qualify for praise under any other position or not. Unfortunately, this approach cannot be used with much success to evaluate contemporary works. We need the perspective of time to compare and evaluate by this standard. Even the eighty years which have elapsed since Longfellow wrote "The Cross of Snow" are not enough to know whether it will truly last. We do note that it is appearing more and more often in anthologies today, while some other poems of Longfellow like "The Village Blacksmith"—once extremely popular—are rarely reprinted.

Perhaps, in conclusion, the use of all these four approaches can be effectively illustrated by considering The Book of Mormon. Under the Platonic method we can check the "message" of this work by standards which we bring from our study of other scripture. No book, not excepting the Bible, is better able to defend itself on the basis of what it has to say to all Christians than The Book of Mormon.

From the Aristotelian point of view, that is evaluation on the basis of form, The Book of Mormon is equally impressive. Its title page states clearly what it claims to be, which is essentially Hebraic history. We need to be aware, however, that Hebraic history is a very special kind of account. To the Hebrew, history is God's dealings with his chosen people, no more, no less. It is not recorded to satisfy curiosity; it is written to change lives, to bring its readers to a knowledge of God. Theology, therefore, is presented in answer to human problems.

549

JULY 1964

Digressions on philosophy, geography, economy, or any other concern which does not specifically reflect God's dealings with his people are rare in any Hebrew history — and they are just as rare in The Book of Mormon. If we take the standards by which we judge from the work itself, this book is precisely, and triumphantly, what it claims to be.

At first glance, the abridged nature of much of The Book of Mormon would seem to make reference to particular writers in it unusually difficult, but real persons can be seen in looking at the different writing styles of such small books as "Enos" or "Jarom." As an example, consider the headlong impetuosity of Enos. His verbs are particularly vivid: "sunk," "cried," "swept," "did pour out," "labored." Contrast this with calm, exacting Jarom. There Enos is careless care with his diction. Note his description of the Lamanites in verse six. How careful he is to give us their attitude as well as their actions. They not only killed; they "loved murder." There is an authentic ring to these statements. These are such actual people that when Jacob tells us "to be carnally-minded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal," we can almost hear him say it. He is as real as our own beloved leaders today.

Although the Book of Mormon has been in print for fewer than 150 years, demand for it has never slowed. By Horatian standards—which insist that the acid of time cannot be discounted—The Book of Mormon is doing very well. When generations yet to come find this book significant, The

Book of Mormon will have passed its ultimate critical test as a literary work.

SUMMARY

The important thing to remember about this lesson is that anyone can begin to become an able critic of literature if he recognizes the necessity for discernment and works at developing his critical sensitivity devotedly. You simply begin where you are. To start, don't worry about what the author means; (1) find out what his work means to you. Then (2) try to see how the work is put together; look for the "recipe" of the poem or story. (3) Add to this, as you are able, information about the author which will give richness to your analysis. Then complete your development by (4) seeing what others have said. Throughout the lessons which follow we will try to demonstrate the use and significance of these methods. They should help you appreciate President McKay's comment that "the value of good reading consists, first, in selecting good books and, second, in seeing clearly what is therein written."

Questions for Discussion

1. Why is it necessary to be "critical" of literature? Why won't simple appreciation do?

2. What is the special strength of the first critical position for Latter-day Saints?

3. What is the danger of focusing on the life of the poet rather than on his poetry?

4. Note how beautifully such a work as The Book of Mormon stands up under the four critical approaches. Why, on the other hand, will most modern writings not be remembered a hundred years from now?

550
