[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | November | Issue: 4 | Title: Editorial Notes | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The next number of the Exponent, the
issue for December, marks the closing of the
year, and the time seems appropriate for a
settlement of accounts. Subscribers will ad-
mit that we have been very lenient in push-
ing collections, and it is with reluctance that
the matter is hinted at now. But important
alterations and improvements in the paper
are in contemplation, for the carrying out
of which it is quite essential that all sub-
scription accounts be settled and all collec-
tions made. Feeling that our patrons will
understand the reasons for this urgency, we
trust they will exert themselves to comply
promptly with the request now made.
	The General Relief Society has been the
recipient of three handsome presents which
add to the adornment of these headquarters.
One is a very beautiful piece of needlework
by Mrs. Rebecca Brown, aged 75, in the
shape of an unfurled flag; the work is quite
remarkable, especially when one considers
the age of the lady. San Juan Stake Re-
lief Society sent a large Navajo rug, the
brightness of whose colors adds to the cheer-
fulness of the rooms. The Pine Grove ward
of Union Stake, Oregon, presents a sofa
pillow prettily done in white and blue. For
all these we are very grateful, and appre-
ciate the thoughtful givers.
	The selected chorus of two hundred
voices from the Tabernacle Choir have
made a most successful and enjoyable trip
to New York and other eastern points, and
return laden with immeasurable honor. The
daily papers followed their progress from
day to day, and it is not necessary to go into
any detail of the trip—only to assert our
own interest in the singers individually and
collectively. That Utah and her people
have been greatly benefited through this
trip is without question, for the world will
better realize how education and the arts are
encouraged here. The fact that the singers
were in New York to participate in the
exercises of the presentation of the silver
service to the battleship Utah was also a 
matter for congratulation; and the recep-
tion tendered the singers by the nation’s
Executive at the White House in Washing-
ton was a marked courtesy not shown to
many. It was also most fitting that on
their return trip they were able to assist in
the dedicatory services of the monument to
Oliver Cowdery, one of the three witnesses
of the Book of Mormon, at Richmond, Mo.
We join heartily in their welcome home.


[Column 1]
