[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | November | Issue: 4 | Title: Freakish Dress Foe to Suffrage | Author: Unknown]

FREAKISH DRESS FOE TO SUFFRAGE.
	Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, author and lec-
turer, is quoted as saying:
	“Nothing has done so much harm to suf-
frage in the last fifty years as the way wom-
en have dressed themselves in the last year
or two. They have aroused general con-
tempt and criticism, and have made men say
everywhere that they have neither sense nor
judgment, and so are not fit to be trusted
with the ballot.
	“No woman who enters a great movement
can allow herself the same freedom she en-
joyed, before. She is no longer responsible
merely as an individual. She is the em-
bodiment of the cause she represents.
	“If she is a suffragist whatever silly thing
she does is charged up to suffrage by the
men. Therefore, I am convinced that no
one thing has hurt the suffrage cause so
much as the way women have dressed or un-
dressed in the last few years.
	“Their hats alone have made them the
laughing stock of the country. These ridic-
ulous objects are without excuse in either
shape or trimming, and they are made worse
by the wearing of long hatpins.
	“The most influential women have worn
dresses on the street and in public places in
which a woman of the demi-monde would
not have appeared a few years ago.
	“They are everywhere,” she said. “Al-
most every little town has would-be ‘smart’
women who parade the streets in all the
latest indecent eccentricities of fashion.
	“Of course, these women really form the
smallest proportion compared with the
working woman, the mother of families, and
the woman doing splendid service in
churches and other organizations. But, like
the froth and foam they are, they come to
the top. They show themselves in public
and assume a much larger place than they
really occupy. If they only injured them-
selves it would not be so bad, but they in-
jure every good thing other women try
to do and go a long way to counteract
the magnificent work women have actually
accomplished.”—From Chicago Tribune.


[Column 1]
