[Vol27 | March 1940 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: The Cultural Strength of Hart]
Probably some of the precious advice which was given to the women of our church at the time of the organization of the Relief Society might have been summarized in this inscription, "The important thing is taking part and fighting well." I like to think of this great Relief Society Olympiad going on for nearly a century and increasing in strength and numbers during all of that time.
These women of our church would also represent the greatest of strength but not the strength of "brawn and sinew", not trained physically for world competition, but cultural strength.
These women would represent one of the greatest of women's organizations in the world.
Mormon women have been participating for nearly a century and have achieved a cultural strength to be envied.
Greater inspiration than that of earthly kings and rulers has been theirs, because they have been guided by God-inspired leaders. How have these women of Relief Society been trained? For ninety-eight years their organization has been one for service and cultural enrichment. The torch of Truth and Beauty is held high.
Women receive cultural development through association with other good women and by being self-active.
They are grateful, and "gratitude is a fruit of great cultivation; you do not find it among gross people." (Samuel Johnson) Culture seeks to do away with class distinction "to make the best that has been thought and known in the world current everywhere," to make all men live in an atmosphere of sweetness and light. Relief Society women are rich in a cultural inheritance.
Through the varied educational programs of the organization, a love for the good and beautiful is cultivated. Beauty, a garden, a poem or a smile, gives us courage. It is true that "if you put poetry and music into life you will get poetry and music back a hundred fold; and if you put beauty into life... The (culture) it gives you will fill all your days and years with priceless intellectual and emotional rewards of beauty." (Albert Edward Wiggam) When the Prophet Joseph Smith said at one of those first meetings "and I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time", the foundation for great moments was laid. We feel we are near one of the greatest moments of all Relief Society history—almost at the peak of a hundredth anniversary.
