[Vol27 | March 1940 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Sorensen]

Relief Society Spiritually Strong By Counselor Donna D. Sorensen
SPIRITUAL strength was possessed by the Relief Society from its very inception, for that small group of eighteen women who met ninety-eight years ago in Nauvoo had already accepted the Gospel, which entailed a certain spiritual stamina on the part of each, and there was still persecution and sacrifice and other hardships to be endured for the sake of the truth. Then, too, the "desire to be united in a society for human service" was almost a guarantee that if this desire was to be realized and the betterment of humankind was to be carried out it would result in continued spiritual growth: In this society women were given additional means for development by the calling forth of powers possessed by them which might not have had an opportunity for such complete expression otherwise. The importance of rendering the type of service which was contemplated by these women is clearly told by Amulek, for.
After admonishing the Zoramites to pray always and to follow the commandments continually he said further, "... Do not suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all these things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need—I say unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold your prayer is vain, and availeth you nothing, and ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith. Therefore, if ye do not remember to be charitable, ye are as dross..."
Hundreds of homes and thousands of people have been both materially and spiritually benefited by the ministrations of this great society through the years. One of the best ways of experiencing spiritual growth is to aid our brother and sister. The Relief Society has clearly recognized that there is no one great thing that each can do and then do no more and attain spiritual strength, and so the members have been encouraged in numberless ways to perform various acts and kindnesses to humanity. The need at hand in the homes of the people determined the kind of help that was given. The spirit which has characterized that service has been the same which motivated Jesus as he "went about doing good".
Women have carried with them in the performance of their duties "the fruits of the spirit—love, joy, peace, long suffering, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance," and these have been as benedictions in the homes. The thousands of women who have accepted positions of responsibility and leadership in some capacity within this organization has come a measure of growth according to their faithfulness.
Many women can count their moment of greatest humility when they were called to serve.
They have had to live closer to their Heavenly Father; they have had to pray oftener and more humbly to receive the needed inspiration, and because of this not only has their ability increased but their spirituality has grown. One of the significant ways in which this organization has offered spiritual strength to its membership is the contact for association with other worthy women in the Church. A knowledge of kinship in experience and a sharing of religious belief have contributed to the soul's growth. To have met with women who have traveled the journey before you is to have been spiritually enriched, and to have heard the testimony of others is to have strengthened your own and to have found the needed courage and faith to tackle the demands of daily life. Not only have the women themselves in their opportunities for development been benefited, but into each home where each has abided has gone a certain spiritual stimuli to benefit those within that home circle. It is impossible to measure the extent to which this has occurred, but no one can deny that it has taken place.
With increased membership in the years to come, this society will accomplish even greater things.
Women in the future will continue to lay hold on gifts which will go with them into eternity: increased knowledge of good, broader understanding of human nature, a greater testimony of the truth and a satisfaction that they have loved and served even the "least". It is reasonable to suppose that in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MARCH - 173 the time yet to come women will find even greater avenues for organized service, increased opportunity for developing the capacity of leadership and enlarged association with splendid people.
Tennyson has said that: "More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of." Relief Society women have wrought marvelous things by prayer and by faith, but closely allied to these has been works—the labor of the hand and heart.
Just so long as people abide on the earth there will be needs to be met.
Poverty is with people still, sickness seems always to be prevalent, death is ever present; but with a large group of women united in service to allay the pangs of suffering, who knows what faith they will kindle anew in the hearts of those to whom they minister. No one can measure the love they have created in the lives they have contacted, nor can any one estimate the love that will be engendered in the lives that shall be touched in the future. And looking even farther forward is the promise that "eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him."