Picnic Meals Evelyn Hansen ° Director of Home Service, Utah Power and Light Company Prepared Through the Utah State Nutrition Council "Mom, let's have a picnic!" This is the summer plea of children and the wish of many adults. A picnic can _be wonderful fun for the entire family, including mother, if it is planned and prepared correctly. A picnic is an excellent form of summer entertaining for friends and guests, and can be the relaxing answer to a hot day. Picnics can also help solve expensive food problems on trips and vacations. How to Package and Pack Foods for "Away From the House" Eating "1. Use polyethelyne bags, or freezer bags. These are not cellophane. They can be used over and over again, are moisture and vapor proof. They will keep bread and cake moist, greens fresh and crisp. Keep them and take them home again. Wash and dry well and use over many times., 2. Use an insulated electric roaster or casserole to make an excellent portable refrigerator. Put ice cubes or a piece of ice in polyethelyne bags and close the top with an elastic band to keep the water from the other foods; or use a metal or glass container for ice, such as a shortening can, tall fruit juice can, or glass jar with a lid. 3. Use paper plates, cups, forks, spoons, and napkins—take plenty. Also provide paper tablecloths. These will reduce the dishwashing and laundry work when you return home. 4. Use paper tubs and plastic dishes, both with lids. These are inexpensive and come in sizes from "% cup, for individual serving, to large sizes for quantity. Salads, desserts, pickles, and relishes can be individually dished at home and are easy to serve at mealtime. Variety stores and those with freezer supplies carry these items. 5. Use Aluminum foil—freezer weight—to hold foods for cooking or reheating on a camp stove or bonfire. Use this material instead of cooking utensils. To Keep Foods Hot 1. Have foods boiling in a large, well-covered kettle. The deepwell cooker kettle is excellent. Put the kettle in the center of a pasteboard box that is larger. Pack layers of newspaper around the sides and over the top of the kettle. Cover all with a tug or blanket. 2. Cook a single food or a complete meal in the insulated roaster or casserole. Put the whole roaster in the car. This meal will keep hot up to five hours. 3. Carry food in a utensil that can be used to reheat it on a camp stove or bonfire. A good hot dish can easily be carried if there will be not more than 3-3% hours before serving time. - — Page 396