Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" CHARLOTTE BRONTE: A fragment of a letter written in Charlotte Bronte's own hand, shows her character as well as anything she ever wrote. It is the ending of a letter to Miss Nussey, and these are the lines: "Submission, courage — exertion when practicable — these seem to be the weapons with which we must fight life's long battle."' —Exchange RELIEF SOCIETY IN CHICAGO: A notable event of the new year is the organization of a Relief Society in the great city of Chicago — so near to the place and in the same state where the first Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The following notice appeared in the Deseret Evening News of Jan. 9, 1897: "A Relief Society has been organized here lately with Sisters Bengta Benedict president, Sister Charlotte Esterbloom and Christena Soderland as first and second counselors, and Sisters Erekson and Brumley secretary and treasurer." —News Note It is always pleasant and gratifying to have young people marry happily. In our belief we have not only a desire for union here, but for the eternal marriage in which we most firmly believe, and undoubtedly hope that all the young people in whose marriages we are so deeply interested may be so happy that they may continue throughout the eternal ages to come. —KEditorial THE YEAR OF JUBILEE Ring the bells for ninety-seven— Let's have a great rejoicing; Forgiveness, love and peace abound The ancient custom voicing. —R. M. F. THE WOMAN'S CONGRESS IN BERLIN: I cannot help saying it was a success... I am compelled to proclaim it.... During the seven days' Congress nearly all subjects connected with the woman question were touched, and not a single one lacked interest. 'The foreign delegates were agreeably surprised at the coolness and cleverness with which the German women delivered their speeches from the platform... But there is no denying the fact... Ours was the good fortune to be enchanted by the magnificent and splendid speeches delivered by the foreign, especially by the English and American delegates... Mrs. Ormiston Chant, who gave us in her musical voice, a most interesting account of the temperance question... Mrs. Belva Lockwood who spoke in a most interesting manner on the political rights of women in the United States.. —Eliza Ichenhauser Page 32 ARIA MENEGHINI CALLAS, one of the greatest living singers, appeared in Bellini's opera "Norma," at the opening of the Metropolitan Opera season in New York City in November. Born in New York City, Maria Callas received her musical education in Italy and has sung many difficult and triumphant roles at the La Scala Opera House. Her voice has extraordinary range and versatility, and for a singer still in her early thirties, her musicianship has been extolled as unrivalled among her contemporaries. MPS. LORRAINE WASHINGTON, of Memphis, 'Tennessee, ls founder and president of a very successful collection agency, dedicated to the interest of the debtor as well as the creditor. She learns why people are not paying their bills, then helps the debtors, sometimes even finding employment for them when they are out of work. The firm, with its friendly methods, is expanding into many states. KAREN HANTZE, of San Diego, California, although only thirteen, has more than fifty trophies for her tennis matches and has won some of them in competition with adult women tennis stars.