WOMAN’S OPPORTUNITY.
	THE disasters on land and sea of the
last few months are very distressing to hear,
and to read, and terrible indeed to those
who are in peril. We who are compar-
atively speaking in places of safety, should
certainly be very grateful for the blessings
vouchsafed to us by our Heavenly Father,
and it should inspire us to greater faithful-
ness and diligence in serving Him, and
keeping his commandments. Not only
does it seem that the natural elements of the
world are in great commotion, causing des-
truction of many lives and millions of
property—but that mankind are seriously
affected by agencies that are not understood,
and are going hither and thither without


any fixed purpose in view, and yielding in
many instances to dangerous influences.
	In these days of confusion, calamities and
strife, it is well for women as well as men
to be wise and conservative, to maintain
that equanimity under all circumstances
that will help to keep society level, and not
run to extremes in any one direction, but
trust in God and observe the signs of the
times, that woman as a reserve force may
be ready for any great emergency where
help may be needed. And whether we all
realize it or not in the great conflicts which
are sure to transpire shortly, (because we
already have the key-note of warning)
woman will be called to act as well as to
use a silent influence, and the better pre-
pared politically, morally, mentally and
spiritually she may be, the greater helpful-
ness she can render in the coming struggles
where mankind will assuredly stand in need
of her wise counsel and aid, her economy,
her tenderness, fortitude and endurance,
and where she will have abundant oppor-
tunity to prove her ability as a help meet
to man not only in the home, but in the
public arena of life itself, taken in its
largest and most comprehensive sense.
	The broad field which the nineteenth cen-
tury has opened to woman, in which to
educate herself in the schools, colleges, and
universities, as well as the opportunities for
culture which are given through the various
clubs and organizations that are today a
noticable factor in villages, towns and cities,
will better fit and qualify her for the tre-
mendous changes that are imminent in the
horizon of today. The world is not stand-
ing still, and the advancement of the
greater civilization of which one hears so
much, and the progress made in the solution
of intricate and difficult problems in science
that so electrify the world of mankind, are
all positive proofs of the great events that
are to be wrought out in fulfillment of the
designs of the Almighty, that have been
foretold in the Scriptures by the greatest
and wisest inspired men and poets, who
have lived indifferent ages of the world’s
history, and who looked forward to the day
when these wonderful things would come
to pass, that seem now so rapidly approach-
ing a great and momentous climax.


[Column 1]		
		TO THE SISTERS.
	BELOVED SISTERS: My thoughts are oft
with my sisters and a desire to commune
with them and I would fain comfort and
encourage them amid the cares of life. My
heart is filled with love and anxiety for all
who are striving to walk in the straight and
narrow way and trying to keep the com-
mandments of Our Father in heaven; for
myself, I hope to do better in the future,
but my heart is ever full of blessings for
my sisters.
	Our dear little Exponent is our friend,
and it is a welcome visitor to all our organ-
zations, and through this medium of com-
munication I hope more often to correspond
with the sisters, than I have done hereto-
fore.
	And to my Aids do I now wish to extend
my grateful thanks for I often hear of their
diligence in giving the instructions in the
reading of the Lectures upon Faith, and
the local Presidents uniting in the pleasant
and required efforts to make this plan uni-
form throughout our Relief Society. “If
you love me feed iny sheep.” In all the

[Column 2]
branches and stakes in Utah and wherever
the saints dwell are sixty thousand children
enrolled in the Sabbath Schools and Prima-
ries that need healthy and intelligent mothers
to guide and direct these God given
treasures; and that the world may be bene-
fited and made better by their coming upon
the earth, is our fervent prayer; and to ac-
complish this, there are both spiritual and
temporal labors required, intermingled with
economy for our self support and home in-
dustry in every form, these things are re-
quisite.
	There are some intelligent and farseeing
ladies in Salt Lake City that discern the
utility and necessity of this movement in
home industry, in order to meet the con-
ditions of the present times, aud prevent
suffering. 
	Inasmuch as our long standing organiza-
tions have been blessed to do so much good
in relieving the needy in the past, and there
are now new duties requiring special atten-
tion reminding us of what we have already
passed through, and praying that we nor
any other people may ever lack bread or
the necessities of life; I feel it will require
us as a people to have courage and firmness
to meet distressing times, and circumstances
that may come; utilizing all that we can,
and that we have, and not going into debt.
We can teach our children frugality and re-
strain them from wasting even a piece of
bread; all blessings are God-given and as
Joseph Smith used to say, “I teach the
people correct principles and they govern
themselves;” so let us teach our children
by precept as well as by example correct
principles (as we cannot always be with
them) and do our duty the best we can,
observing all the requirements devolving
upon us.
	I feel truly and deeply for those in new
places struggling with the inevitable of a
new country, and I wish to say, do not be
discouraged, the Lord rules and also hears
prayer, and he will answer those who ask
his aid and assistance in humility and
sincerity.
	There is one lucrative enterprise that this
people can and should encourage, and that
is the silk industry, especially those living
in the South in Washington County. I
trust that the words of President Young
yet live in our hearts. I hope every mul-
berry tree and sprout of the mulberry will
be preserved with all due care; had we
listened and obeyed his counsel, the yearly
six weeks work would have been ere this
not less than half a million income to this
people.
	I desire and expect soon to go to Canada
to see the saints and my daughter who lives
there, and I earnestly desire to be remem-
bered by those at home and to return to the
Temple and my labors there, and to travel
and visit the Relief Society in the several
stakes of Zion and come back to my
home again in safety.
	These are a few of my thoughts and de-
sires, for my heart is in the Latter-day
work, and my prayer is that Zion may
prosper, and all her interests, and that the
Relief Society may continue to grow and
increase and make sure and steady progress
both spiritually and temporally in all that
will tend to benefit Zion and ameliorate the
condition of humanity.
	Your Sister in the Everlasting Covenant,
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG, 
				President Relief Society.
June 29, 1794.


