MRS. SORENSON’S CLASS.
	THE Woman’s Reform class met in con-
ference at the meeting house at 10 a. m.,
Friday, in Provo. Sister Hannah Sorenson
presiding.
	Sister Keeler made the opening address.
She was pleased to see the interest taken in
this great work. This class started with
only twenty members, now there are about
that many associations. She felt to give
them all a hearty welcome, and prayed God
to aid those who were called upon to take
part.
	Reports were given by the presidents of
the five permanent organizations—Lehi,
Sister Standring; Pleasant Grove, Sister
Eliza Brown; Springville, Sister Hafen;
Provo, Sister Mecham; American Fork,
Sister Clark. The work of Spanish Fork
and Payson were reported by Sister Soren-
sen, there being in attendance sixty-one and
forty four respectively. Out side of the
regular work, Sister Sorensen has intro-
duced a class for young girls, between the
ages of ten and fourteen, instructions being
given on Hygiene, Morals and Manners,
etc., suitable to their ages and ability.
	A hymn was sung by the congregation
after which a very creditable paper on
“Social Purity’’ was read by Sister Stand-
ring of Lehi. Following this was an essay
by Eliza Brown on “Woman and Reform.’’
Sister Rose Hayes from Pleasant Grove
spoke a short time on “pre-natal influence.”
Dr. Noyes expressed himself as being in
sympathy with this work. Congregation
sang the Doxology. After adjournment the
visitors repaired to the Tabernacle where an
informal lunch was partaken of.
	A large audience was present in the after-
noon.
	After the opening exercises the following
officers were sustained:
	President, Delia I. Booth, Provo; first
counselor, Ida Allen, Provo; second coun-
selor, Mary Ann Webb, Lehi; secretary,
Ivy Sims, Provo; assistant secretary, Zina
Chipman, American Fork; treasurer, Eliza-
beth Hill, Springville.
	Sister Olive Anderson from Springville,
gave a very pleasing and instructive lecture
on “Hygienic Cooking.” Sister Hafen
gave a lecture on “Harmony in Line and
Color,,’ illustrated with a number of
pictures. Sister Ida Allen read an essay on
the unnecessary suffering to which women
are subjected by wrong methods of living.
“The True Healing Art” was ably treated
by Sister Anna Hindley of American Fork.
Sister Katie Cragan, from Smithfield, spoke
a few words. Dr. Allen expressed himself
as being highly pleased with the work of
Reform, and desired to assist in every way.
Brother Henry Tanner spoke well of the
work, and said that no good thing was ever
commenced without opposition. He took


the Savior’s life for an example. Brother
Wossencroft fully endorsed the proceedings
of the class. Sister Susa Gates, Brother
Oscar Young and others spoke a short time.
	The congregation sang “There’s a land
that is fairer than day.”
	Benediction, Brother Boyer. The con-
ference adjourned for one year.


