XXXVIII.

	LORD WALTON sailed on the British ship
Francesco (as he had evidently been deter-
mined to do,) bound for his native land,
leaving his two little children in charge of
Dr. and Mrs. Bland, and taking with him
only one of his household, a man servant
whom he had brought from Walton Hall.
He was affected to tears in parting with his
babies, but too utterly selfish to yield to the
entreaties of his true friends, the Blands,
when they tried to dissuade him from
going, even on the eve of his departure.
	So another burden fell heavily upon Jane
Bland. She watched the ship sail away,
but would not go down to the shore to see
him off. Dr. Bland however did so and
bade him the last good bye. Little Edward
Walton had never seen much of his father
and therefore did not miss him as most
children would, and baby was of course far
too young to know anything, but the nurses
and servants berated him sorely behind his
back, though to his face they were flattering
and servile, begging too that he would take
them all back again to live in a civilized
country, where there were no “Injuns ”
and wild beasts, of which they lived in con-
stant fear; and indeed though they knew
how much their young mistress loved Mrs.
Bland, their prejudices against Hilliard
castle and Sir Edward were so strong, that
it had been hard work to keep quiet about
the old traditions, and now they were to be
brought in closer contact with the only
surviving relative of Sir Edward, of whom
they had ever heard, and the maids gossipped
of Sir Edward’s niece as if she were really
an uncanny creature, whereas she was the
most matter of fact and sensible person,
these simple housemaids had ever met with.
They had great reason to thank her after-
wards for the many lessons of prudence,
economy and thrift they received from this
gentle and patient woman.
	As one after another in the years follow-
ing, these young women married and com-
menced housekeeping on a small scale; for
not one of them returned to their native
land—Mrs. Bland dispensed with a liberal
hand, and generous heart, not only material


gifts to these lone girls, but words of wis-
dom,comfort and encouragement; she never
knew the feeling of hostility, they had
fostered because of her relationship to Sir
Edward, and her residence at the old
tumble-down castle. Strange what strong
prejudices existed between old families, and
how it invariably impressed the servants.
In this case as the young women married
and assumed responsible positions as ma-
trons in a new colony, they grew to admire
and look up to Mrs. Bland who proved a
staunch friend in times of adversity, and
one on whom firm reliance could be placed.
	Dr. Bland survived only a few months
after Maitland left for England, his illness
was so gradual that his friends were
scarcely aware it was serious, though his
wife was apprehensive of danger from im-
pressions and premonitions of an indefinable
character which, she felt, and knew were
convincing to her own mind. She dis-
guised from her husband the real state of
her feelings, and preserved a cheerful coun-
tenance when with him, but often when by
herself, the tears would flow at the thought
of being left alone with such grave res-
ponsibilities, in a new country among
strangers. Maitland had not been heard
from direct but once when the Doctor’s
death occurred, and then his message was
very unsatisfactory.
	“Take good care of the children, dear
cousin, they have no mother but you now—
and when my mother’s affairs are settled, I
will come or send for them. Let me know
as often as possible how they are and be
sure that Andrews is faithful to Edward.”
Toward the close of his letter he asked if
the baby was like Anna. Such a heartless
letter coming when Mrs. Bland was over-
whelmed with care,anxiety and sorrow was
almost unbearable, even for one so for-
giving and charitable. Clair had not been
heard from for some time and she did not
like to mention him because of Robert
Harrison whose name never passed her lips,
and of whom she never allowed herself to
think; Anna in her lifetime frequently allu-
ded to “dear Uncle Rob” as she always
called him, but Mrs. Bland either maintain-
ed perfect silence or answered in mono-
syllables; for a woman of Jane Bland’s
type would not allow herself even to cher-
ish a thought of another man, to come like
a dark shadow between her and the hus-
band whom she had promised to love and
obey, for that was one of the solemn in-
junctions of the marriage service of the
Church of England. Besides she enter-
tained the utmost reverence for the sacred
obligations she had assumed, and to be lack-
ing fidelity even in thought would have
seemed to her low and base.
	The death of Dr. Bland was a blow to
the community, for he was a man to be
missed not oniy among men, who esteemed
his great virtues and nobility as well as his
worldly wisdom and sagacity, but the poor
and afflicted to whom he had been generous
and benevolent, mourned for him most
sincerely, and they had good cause for they
had lost a kind friend and a true benefactor.
	His funeral was largely attended, the
services being very simple, but eloquent
with deep feeling, for Mr. Barrington who
delivered the short discourse knew how up-
right and conscientious his life had been,
and in fact all who had the honor of his
acquaintance felt the influence of his re-
fined personality. He never considered
neither hardships nor toil in his profession,
and after his death there was a sense of
loneliness and loss in every home where he
had visited. He was buried among the pines
near to Lady Anna whom he had watched
over from her childhood. His wife felt his
loss deeply but the many responsibilities she
was obliged to carry and the pressing duties
which must be attended to immediately,
helped her to endure with greater courage
the sad loss that had befallen her. Her
little boy missed his father with a grief al-
most uncontrollable. He had been so much
with him, always in fact when he was at
home, and often rode in his gig over the
hills and through the long stretches of pine
woods while his father was making his
calls upon his patients
	Businessmen who interested themselves
and proffered advice to the young widow,
who seemed so much alone in the world,
and the executors of the will, were all
amazed at the wonderful ability and even
knowledge of business affairs, that Mrs.
Bland displayed in dealing with the sub-
jects that demanded her personal super-
vision. She was or seemed to be equal to
all occasions and under all circumstances.
Mr. Barrington rendered her valuable
assistance in relieving her of the unpleasant
duty of writing to the Doctor’s relatives in
the north of England. This she really felt
she could not do. It was very remarkable
that she kept her balance so well, looking
after every minute detail in the settlement
of the estate and property, and yet manag-
ing her household and nursery with pre-
cision and keeping every department in
running order. Her hands were never idle,
and her quick and ready intuition of what
was needed, and what was best and most
appropriate seemed never at fault.
	A severe winter set in soon after the
decease of the Doctor and she was more
closely confined within doors, which in-
clined her more to melancholy than when
she was out and looking after the necessary
preparations for the long,cold New England
winter. It was also true that being more
with the children she was constantly re-
minded of the double loss, both for herself
and them, of the two who had left her so
sorely bereft. Almost the only companion
with whom she held converse upon any
serious subject was Mr. Barrington, and in
the long evenings he would read to her
while she sat and sewed on the little gar-
ments for the orphaned children. The
young minister was conversant with many
topics in which Mrs. Bland was deeply in-
terested and it was a great pleasure to them
both to give free expression to thoughts
and ideas, not always quite so well under-
stood by the people among whom they
were living.
	One letter had come from Maitland after
the Doctor’s death, but it was a sterotyped
affair, his mother joined him in expressions
of love and sympathy; he could not yet
leave England for several reasons which he
did not take the pains to give, and he must
stay by his mother for the present.
	From the Doctor’s relatives tender letters
of love and sympathy begging Mrs. Bland
to come home to them, and to give up the
care of her cousin’s children to those whose
duty it was to care for them. This she
could not and would not do, though it was
very pleasant to know these good kind-
hearted friends appreciated her situation,
and would have made her more than wel-
come to dwell among them. But she felt
so strongly within herself the independence
of action, and the need of relying upon her
own judgment in reference to the duties
resting wholly and solely with her in regard
to the children, that she could not have
yielded a point in reference to the course 
she ought to pursue.
	Mr. Barrington knowing the contents of
the letters ventured one evening to say to
Mrs. Bland, “You will pardon me I trust,
but would it not be well for you to person-
ally consider the proposition of your hus-
band’s family, and make up your mind to
leave here in the spring for a visit and a
change of scene, even if you desire to make
America your permanent home?”
	Mrs. Bland seemed astonished that any
one should have dared to make such a
suggestion, and hesitated a moment before
replying, turning upon him the full blaze
of her large gray eyes. “I thought Mr.
Barrington you understood me better than
to ask such a question, or even indulge a
thought of my ever putting into the power
of any one to control me or my affairs. I
have passed through ordeals of such a
nature, that I am quite prepared to stand
alone if needful and to bring up my child,
according to my own ideas, that he may be
as well fortified to grapple with fortune or
misfortune as his father and I want to
educate him in my own way.” “But my
dear friend” whispered Mr. Barrington
“Would not your opportunities and advan-
tages be much greater in England than
here to give your son a liberal education
such as you propose, and you yourself
would have the companionship of refined
and cultivated women, whereas here you
have never made the acquaintance, though
you have been urged, of women in your
own rank, only of the poor and lowly.”
“Of whom I have learned invaluable
lessons of patience, resignation, humility
and self-denial, courage under supreme
difficulties and embarrassments, this you
will grant me is worth learning in your
creed of divine philosophy.”
	“Certainly Madame but yet I see a
boundless avenue open to you in the higher
walks of life, and with such a fine brain as
yours, and the courage of a man, a hero
indeed, you should make your influence felt
in the rank and file of women of superior
graces and intelligence.” “And so you
think America is not good enough or great
enough for poor me—let me tell you
America will need strong-hearted women
and brave men in the near future, and
England has her army and navy and her
treasuries are full and running over.”


