CURRENT LITERATURE.

[A paper read in the Reapers Club,
June 11.]
	IT goes without saying that this is an
age of current literature, and also—“that
of the making of books there is no end.”
Reviews and criticisms are so profuse and
characteristically written, that one gets a
very good idea of the book itself as judged
by another’s standard, without reading it.
It is therefore comparatively easy to know
what to read, and to become familiar with
what passes as current coin in the literary
world.
   
	Undoubtedly the current literature of the
period excels in true merit that of other
days, though some books there be that can
never in our estimation be surpassed, the
Bible, Book of Mormon the Iliad, the
Odyssey, Shakespeare and Milton etc—yet
as a whole with a few exceptions, we have
more books and better, better still they reach
the masses of the people, and the people
read.
	Magazines abound in almost all known
countries, and newspapers are as thick as
cowslips in the meadows (so to speak) for
only recently a lady of my acquaintance oc-
cupied a whole afternoon in a club, telling
of only the newspapers and journals, edited,
wholly, or in part by women in the United
States.
	Speaking of American Magazines, the
Cosmopolitan has perhaps the largest circula-
tion, at the present time, of any solid
magazine, and is decidedly progressive; and
the Ladies' Home Journal larger still,
though it is of a lighter character—dealing
more with society in general.
	The Popular Science Monthly, The Cen-
tury and Harper's, maintain a strong hold
on this side the water, and deal with such
literary scientific and moral subjects as are
needful to keep the world moving. The
North American Review and the Forum;
sum up the political and general questions
of this and other countries giving every
month the opinions of the greatest leaders
and statesmen of our time, on almost every
subject of interest.
	Scribner's, Lippincotts, The Eclectic,
McClure's, Littells Living Age, The Atlan-
tic Monthly and New England Magazine,
hold their own, the last two more especially
with Eastern people who are somewhat
conservative; and we have three very
popular newer magazines that are widely
circulated; perhaps because they contain
brief notices of all current matters, and
news of the day. There are the Review
of Reviews, Current Literature, and The
Arena; the last named deals with the great
national questions, and problems that are
agitating the world, and particularly
sociological matters, progressive move-
ments and radical reforms. We have only
mentioned the most important works of
this kind, nor scarcely those, scores and
dozens yet remain unmentioned helping to
teach educational, scientific, commercial,
manufacturing and agricultural methods
and pursuits, and to mold the religious and
social views of the world of mankind.
	Perhaps the most pernicious of all the
journalistic reviews of the day are those of
the agnostic writers who believe nothing
except what can be clearly demonstrated
mathematically or scientifically.
	Many of the magazines and newspapers

[Column 2]
publish in serial forms the books, after-
wards put upon the market; by this means,
authors sometimes double and treble their
payments for work, and they also come
more within the reach of the people to do
them good.
	I will now speak of a few new books
which have recently created something of a
furore in our own country and across the
ocean, more especially in London, and the
Athens of America.
	“Ships that Pass in the Night,” named
from a beautiful quotation in Longfellow’s
tale of Elizabeth—
‘‘Ships that pass in the night, and speak each
	other in passing,
Only a signal shown and a distant voice in the
	darkness;
So on the ocean of life we pass and speak one
	another,
Only a look and a voice, then darkness again
	and a silence.”
	The skeleton of the story was written at
an Alpine resort for invalids Petershoff
which furnished the characters, but was
finished in a London drawing room.
Beatrice Harraden, the author, is herself an
invalid, and has paralysis of the ulnar
nerve of the right arm, and carries it in a
sling. She lost the use of her right hand
by over strain in writing and playing the
violoncello. She has written much for
Blackwood’s and other magazines before
this first book which has made her name
famous, "miles and miles of stuff" she says
herself.
	She is described as a bundle of nerves,
small and frail as a lily, very dark with
eyes like a Creole, wears glasses, has short
hair and is unconventional in manner, and
not yet thirty years of age, talks rapidly,
enthusiastically, with the charming accent
of a well-bred English woman—Miss Har-
radan was born in London, began her
education in Dresden, but afterwards at-
tended the London University and passed
in classics and mathematics with the title
of Bachelor of Arts, she knows nearly all
the literary people in London.
	Her books have been described by an
English Clergyman as the “Doctrine of
Despair.” Miss Harradan is at the present
time in America (possible she may come
here,) she is now enroute to California
hoping to find health in the sunshine.
Her latest book “In Varying Moods” is a
collection of stories first published in
Blackwood's and other standard English
Magazines. Her style is morbid in my
opinion, and not altogether wholesome,
though the moral sentiment is good, the
general tendency is not hopeful. I am not
surprised that it has been severely
criticised by the clergy, and she says she
receives no end of letters from people who
say “they pray for her and beseech her to
turn back to the straight and narrow
path.”
	“The Heavenly Twins” by Sarah Grand
is one of the most talked of and widely
read books of the present time, and has
been written with a purpose, showing the
mistakes made in marriage to men of im-
moral character or tendency in that direc-
tion, a note of warning to young women;
in fact the author is ambitious to arouse
mothers to the correct view which she holds,
that there should be one standard of
morality, and virtue for men and women
alike, and that all women should arouse
from the apathy which makes them sur-
render to the existing conditions of
modern society, but she wishes them to do

[Column 3]
so by the most feminine methods; she gives
in her books clear, logic, brilliant sarcasm,
arguments that clinch the facts, and show
plainly the impropriety of women taking
care of debauched husbands, from a delicate
sense of duty; the terrible consequences of
bringing into the world the offspring of
such marriages, the nauseous pleas that
excuse the man and condemn the woman
guilty of the same offense, the foolish van-
ty of society mothers, who urge their
daughters, innocent and pure, to marry for
wealth and position, or rank and title; she
vigorously portrays in tragic pen pictures,
the extreme agony and suffering; the
hideous crimes society perpetrates even in
married life, to avoid scandal and preserve
the usual conventionalities that custom and
fashionable life require. She holds up a
perfect moral, ideal standard to guide
humanity, shows that man must and can
bring to the marriage altar as unspotted
a record as he demands from the bride.
It is the doctrine of our own church as we
all know, though the world will not re-
ceive it from a “Mormon.” She has cer-
tainly displayed deep and keen intuition,
and a true realization of the corrupt condi-
tion that underlies what is termed modern,
fashionable society. Her keen appreciation
of humor is also noticable in some of the
scenes she depicts, but the dominant
characteristic is her intense sympathy with
the pains of the world.
	Ideala a book written previous to the
“Heavenly Twins,” presents a most
exalted type of perfect and well-rounded
womanhood, light-hearted, pure-souled
and extremely sensitive, married to a man
of low, moral nature, from whom the law
gives her no means of escape except in
disgrace. These two books are truly
Studies From Life, as the author herself
has styled them.
	Sarah Grand is of English parentage
though through her father she has a trace
of French blood, on her mother’s side she
is of North Country Stock, and Quaker
descent on both, her maternal grandfather
however was turned out of the Society
of Friends because he would hunt; the
writer was born in Ireland where her
father was quartered in command of a
naval station, her two brothers “true to
to the family tradition went into the Royal
Navy:” she says of herself that she was
brought up on Punch and the Saturday
Review, both published in London. She
left school at sixteen, and was married im-
mediately after to an officer in the army
whom she accompanied to the East,
through Malta, Egypt and Ceylon, to China
and Japan. She has produced many short
stories previous to her books, in fact while
writing them, which are said to be perfect
little works of art. “Kane” the disrepre-
table, lovable, old soldier-servant, “Janey”
the Lancashire cripple girl, “Boomillan”
the ineffectual, “Ah Man” the Chinaman,
“The Yellow Leaf” and “Eugenia;”
another effort in ordinary fiction was en- 
titled “Singularly Deluded,” in all these
her characters are never weak, the senti-
mental young man or yearning female, but
portray the real heroism of human endur-
ance. Such books are better calculated to
inspire those who read them to higher ex-
cellence, and certainly every intelligent
young woman might read with profit before
marriage, Ideala and the Heavenly Twins
for her own enlightenment. Like many
other women Sarah Grand feels she has a
special message to deliver.


[Column 1]
	Jean Ingelow, whose books are great
favorites with both the English and
American people, is undoubtedly one of
the finest, purest and most sympathetic
poets of our day. Her life too has been
like a rhthymical poem set to sweet music.
Her girlhood was passed in an atmosphere
of goodness, with books and cultivated
people for daily companionship. We
realize from what we know of her, that
she is a beautiful type of womanhood; she
has never married, though without doubt
she has enshrined in her heart some
memories of the past that beautify her soul,
and gladden her lonely life. Whoever has
read her books must necessarily feel how
vividly she describes nature, especially the
sea, and with what reverence, purity and
tenderness her work is interwrought.
“The High Tide on the Coast of Lincoln-
shire,” and “The Songs of Seven” are
among her best poems, though there are
other favorites, some lovers of poetry may
prefer “Divided,” “The Four Bridges”
and “The Two Margarets” are perhaps 
equally good and as truly poetical. Her
prose works are all meritorious, the best so
considered entitled “Off the Skilligs” is a
novel, with a soul in it, it imparts an in-
fluence superior to momentary enjoyment,
presents cheerful views of life and modestly
exalts nobility of character; it is a delight-
ful book. “Mopsa the Fairy” is a charm-
ing fairy story, and she has written several
other children’s books; one called “A
Sister’s Bye Hours,” containing seven
stories. Miss Ingelow is intensely
benevolent and for many years has given at
her home in London, three times a week,
what she calls her "copyright dinner," to
which she invites twelve needy persons,
generally those who have just been dis-
missed from the Hospitals. Jean Ingelow
was born in Boston, England, of English
Scotch ancestry; her London house is in
Kensington, crowned with ivy in the midst
of a garden, half-hidden by trees; she
spends her summers in the South of France
in a cottage over looking the Meditteranean.
	“Traffic in Girls” and the “Florence Crit-
tenden Missions" is one of the most power-
fully written books of the day. It is by
Charlton Edholm (her full name is Mary
Gow Charlton Edholm) the book deals with
the social purity question and reveals the
pitfalls before our girls; it shows the cruel
injustice of man-made laws in such a way
that every woman who thinks deeply
should be a determined woman suffragist—
if for no other reason than to right the in-
famous wrongs that exist in all our large
cities viz. the age of consent, and other
equally demoralizing influence of the
double standard of morals. It gives a
chapter from the Pall Mall Gazette a
revelation to show the frightful condition
of moral leprosy which exists today. Mrs.
Edholm has written much material for
newspapers descriptive articles for Chicago
Tribune, St. Louis Post Dispatch, and
New York World, The Republican and
Inter Ocean and is one of the suffrage and
press women with whom I am somewhat
acquainted. Her labors and her literary
works are so varied, and so great and many,
that it is not possible to mention them by
name in this paper. I must pass on to one
or two more leading lights in the books of
the day; but in this connection I ought cer-
tainly to mention Helen H. Gardener’s two
books. “Is This Your Son My Lord?”
said to be the most powerfully written novel
by an American. A terrible expose of

[Column 2]
conventional immorality and hypocrisy
the other “Pray You Sir Whose Daughter?”
A brillant novel of today dealing with
social purity, and the age of consent.
	Margaret Deland whose maiden name
was Campbell, is one of my special favorites.
Harper's Magazine and The Century
gladly publish her poems, “The Old
Garden and Other Verses,” is one of the
best books in our libraries of today, the
volume has gone through six editions.
Her most popular work was “John Ward
Preacher” a novel which passed through
six editions in five months, a later novel
“Sidney” and a descriptive work “Florida
Days” are also well received; she writes
short stories for magazines principally the
Atlantic Monthly and Longman's Maga-
zine published in Boston, all her writings
are popular and the public look forward to
them with delightful anticipation. Mrs.
Deland was born in Pittsburg Feb. 23, in
1857—was married in 1880 to Louis F.
Deland and moved to Boston, Mass. which
has since been her home, her husband is
also inclined to literature and is of great
assistance to her, in her work.
	Margaret Elizabeth Sangster, another
notable writer and poet, is a regular con-
tributor to many leading periodicals and
has done much editorial work on news-
papers, she edited Harper's Young People
at one time, and in 1890, became editor of
Harper's Bazaar which position she still
occupies. Her books are extensively read,
principal among them are “Poems of the
Household” “Home Fairies and Heart
Flowers,” and a series of Sunday School
Books. During all her busy years she
has written poems of a high order. All
her works have a decidedly high moral
tone and are helping to make the world
better. Mrs. Sangster was born in New
Rochelle, New York, in 1838, her maiden
name was Munson married in 1858—
George Sangster. Mrs. Sangster author
and editor is a conspicuous personage in
the literary and social circles in New York.
Her home is in Brooklyn. Her household
consists of several relatives among them
her grand-children of her dead son and
step-daughter.
	The poems and books of Louise Chand-
ler Moulton are widely circulated and read
with intense interest in England as well as
America. Her first book “This That and
the Other” appeared in 1854, it sold won-
derfully, “Juno Clifford” appeared in
1855, she has brought out many books,
both in England and her own country, too
many to mention here even by title "Some
Women’s Hearts,” “Miss Eyre from Bos-
ton,” “Ourselves and Our Neighbors,”
“Random Rambles,” will give you some
idea; besides books she writes narratives
and sketches, and from 1870 to 1876 she
was the Boston literary correspondent of
the New York Tribune and for nearly five
years wrote a weekly letter on bookish
topics for the Boston Sunday Herald. But
it is to her two volumes of poems I par-
ticularly wish to call your attention.
“Swallow Flights” and “In the Garden of
Dreams” one thousand copies of the last
named were sold in twelve days. Her
literary reputation rests, it is said, and it
ought to upon her poetry. Mrs. Moulton
is in herself the dedicated and conscientious
poet “whose wares are marketable, and
even popular, some critics place her son-
nets at the head of their kind in America.”
Certainly to me, her poetry is golden, rich,
and full of impassioned melody, emotions,

[Column 3]
reveries, with a note of melancholy sweet-
ness. Since the death of Phillip Bourke
Marston in 1887, she has edited two
volumes of his verses “Garden Secrets”
and “A Last Harvest,” and is now en-
gaged on editing his poetical works as a
whole. Louise Chandler was born in
Pomfret, Connecticut, April 5, 1835, she
married William U. Moulton, a well-known
Boston journalist. She has spent sixteen
consecutive summers in Europe, and is as
much at home in London, as in America;
she is one to whom all circumstances are
kind, and whom success has never spoiled,
and is a most enviable figure among
American women of letters. She is pos-
sessed of a gracious nature and has always
been much sought after. Many young
writers have had from her encouragement
and sympathy, and some rank almost as
her own household for she has but one 
daughter who is in her own home far
away,
	The newest and most popular book since
Marcella (of which Mrs. Thomas told you) ,
is “Margaret Salisbury," by Mary Hol-
land Lee. The public are enthusiastic
over this new book, there are many pas-
sages in it like a fine etching, the critics
say it is even better than “The Heavenly
Twins,” though by an American author
the situations are aome of them not parallel
but similar, and although Madame Grand
did her work well the scenes in Margaret
Salisbury are made much clearer, sharper 
and more vivid. There is a beauty in the
story that appeals to healthy men and wo-
men, the author feels and knows that this
life is not all, yet loves the common things
of earth, and has a sympathy for the lowly
and the everyday, that marks the lofty soul.
In this book too the sea is a consolation, a
sympathetic power, the nightingale pours
forth a love plaint, one hears the leaves
stir, and the hum of bees, and the faint
odor of wind-blown roses, and above it all
the blue sky. I am sorry I have not more
time to tell you of the many new books
that seem to make such an impress on the
times in which we live—and sorry too, not
to touch upon our home authors and poets;
but I trust those who follow me will not
forget Eliza R. Snow, Bishop O. F. Whit-
ney, Hannah T. King, Emily H. Wood-
mansee, Henry W. Naisbett and others in 
due course of time.
E. B. W.


