			 WASATCH STAKE.
Editor Exponent:
	THE semi-annual Conference of the Re-
lief Society of Wasatch Stake, convened in
the meeting house at Midway, May 31st
1894, at ten o’clock a. m. and 2 p. m. 
President Emma Brown and Counselors be-
ing present, also President Hatch and L.
H. Giles of the Stake Presidency, Bishop
Watkins of Midway, Bishop N. C. Mur-
dock of Charleston and several other Elders.
The singing exercises during the Conference
were very creditably rendered under the
leadership of Elder John Huber of Mid-
way.  Conference was opened at 10 o’clock
by singing, “Softly beams the sacred
dawning etc.”  Prayer by Bishop N. C.
Murdock. Singing, “My God the spring
of all my joys etc.”  The roll was called
twenty officers being present.  The minutes
of the morning session of the last con-
ference were read and accepted.  President
Brown made a few opening remarks, after
which all the branches except two were re-
presented as being in a very favorable con-
dition, those reporting also bore strong
testimonies to the truth of the Latter-day
work and the benefit of the Relief Society.
Counselor Sarah Alexander spoke a short
time, and after singing conference was ad-
journed till 2 p. m.  Benediction by Elder
Conrad Abbegglen.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened at
2 p. m. by singing, “Earth with her ten
thousand flowers.”  Prayer by Elder Wm.
Daybell sen.  Singing by choir and con-
gregation, “The spirit of God like a fire is
burning.”  The minutes of the afternoon
session of former conference were read and
accepted.  The statistical and financial re-
port for the six months ending February
28th, was also read and accepted.  President
Brown spoke encouragingly of the reports
as rendered, also gave some very good and
timely counsel to the sisters.  Stake Presi-
dent of the Primary Association, Sister Ann
Murdock, related some of her experiences,
spoke of being present at the first meeting
of the Relief Society held in Salt Lake City,
and said one sister there spoke in tongues
and the interpretation given was that this
society should extend throughout the
mountains, said this was literally fulfilled to
day, also gave good counsel to the mothers
and bore a strong testimony to the truth of
Mormonism. Counselor Mary Daybell made

[Column 3]
some encouraging remarks. Bishop N. C.
Murdock, Counselor T. H. Giles, Bishop
Watkins and President Hatch each made
very interesting and encouraging remarks.
President Hatch presented the Stake Offlcers
of the Society and they were all unanimous-
ly sustained. Sister Brown thanked all
who had in any way helped to make this
conference such a success as it had been and
adjourned the conference for six months.
Singing,  “Know this that every soul is
free.”  Benediction by Bishop Watkins.
