SOME FACTS ABOUT SERICULTURE.

	A NUMBER of women in Utah are taking
up silk culture with great enthusiasm.
Among them is Mrs. Hannah C. Bentley
of St. George. The following extracts
from letters of Mrs. Bentley’s to the Utah
Woman’s Silk Association are interesting
and give valuable hints for those who wish
to engage in silk culture.
	“I have 212 pounds of green cocoons.
I have smothered 100 pounds. I have 26 
ounces of eggs now and will have twice as 
many more. All wanting eggs for another
year would do well to get them now and
properly keep them until the leaves are
ready another year. The weather is so 
very changeable that to bring the worms 
along properly you must keep the room 
warm night and day until after the second
molting. They should be fed every two
hours until after the first molting, then
every three hours until the second molt-
ing, then every four hours until they spin.
They are not to be fed nor disturbed during
molting. In changing their beds I find a
frame covered with wire screens the very
best thing. Place it over the bed,sprinkle
and feed over this, and you will find the
little fellows all crawling up upon the feed.
I have three different sized frames—the first
the original netting—the second every
other wire drawn each way—the third two
wires each way. The worms must not be
too crowded neither handled. I am plan-
ning to make twenty-five yards of cloth
this year, if my health will permit.”
	“I have already suggested that those
who intended raising silk for another year,
secure their eggs now and care for them,
keep them upon the paper upon which they
are laid,—roll them up carefully—take a
perfectly clean lard bucket—perforate the
bottom and lid that they may have air—put
the eggs in—close the bucket and tie the
lid on that no accident may happen to the
eggs—lay them up in a cold dry cellar.
When the leaves in the spring are as large
as a dime bring up the eggs, spread the
papers upon a deep box lid, and keep in a
warm room of even temperature. Always
keep each days hatching by itself on ac-
count of their molting as they must not
be fed during that time. When the worms

[Column 2]
first hatch I put a leaf upon them, letting
the stem remain. When the leaf is full, I
take the leaf by the stem and place upon
the bed prepared for them until after the
first molting. I leave a space between
each wide enough so that I can lap the leaf
on both sides and they will immediately
transfer themselves to the fresh leaf.”
	Mrs. Bentley has plenty of fresh silk
worm eggs which can be had for four
dollars an ounce. A quarter of an ounce 
is all one person can care for. It is not too
late to raise the silk worms this year, the
mulberry leaves are still very tender. Eggs
can be gotten in Salt Lake City by applying
to Mrs. C. E. Allen, 234 seventh East street
who has a limited supply for sale for the
Silk Association.


