INTERESTING TOUR IN SEVIER.

Editor Exponent:
	On Saturday May 5, Sisters Mary Freeze
and Minnie J. Snow arrived here in Rich-
field for the purpose of attending the meet-
ings of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Sevier
Stake of Zion. The force of instruction
given by the ladies above named was treat-
ing upon the subjects of virtue, and chastity.
The counsels given were indeed choice,
timely and beneficial and a good time in
general was enjoyed.
	On Monday May 7, a special meeting was
held in Elsinore by the sisters of the Relief
Society, Sister Minnie J. Snow having re-
turned to Salt Take City. Present on the
stand, President Mary Freeze, President E.
Bean, Counselor Thirza Thurber and Sec-
retary Christena Cellars, sisters of the
Elsinore ward, Bishop Jensen and others.
Remarks were made by President E. Bean,
who gave good instruction. President Mary
Freeze addressed the congregation, dwelt
on the subjects of faith and hope, referred
to the Christians of former days and of the
great work that rested upon us as a people
to redeem our dead, said that the glory of
God had burst forth upon Zion. We have
great cause to rejoice and thank the Lord
for the privilege we have to be on the
earth at this favored period, gave much
good instruction to the sisters and words of
encouragement and asked that many of the
blessings of God be with us all the day
long. Admonished us to listen to the
whisperings of the Holy Spirit and be care-
ful to obey. Prayed God to bless us in all
of our callings. Counselor Thirza Thurber
had enjoyed the meetings very much, en-
dorsed the remarks of the sisters. Bore her
testimony to the truth of this work. Dwelt
on the subject of caring for our young, we
should guard them from the evils that sur-
round them. Bishop Jensen was pleased
with the meetings, endorsed the remarks of
the speakers. Remarks by Brother Broad-
band. He appreciated the good instruction
given by the sisters.
	The ladies held meetings at Joseph City
at 2 p. m. and 10 a. m. A meeting also
in Monroe, May 8. The remarks of Presi-
dent E. Bean at Joseph City are worthy of
mention. Sister Bean bore her testimony
to the truth of this work, spoke of the
mercy of our Heavenly Father. Said we
would be able to resist all evil if we were
faithful, hoped the young sisters would be
careful and not grieve the Holy Spirit and
all would be well. Dwelt on the blessiugs
and advantages that might be derived from
the practice of plural marriage. We should
live a pure and holy life. Instructed the
sisters to be careful of themselves and be
thankful for all our privileges, advised
mothers to guard their daughters from evil,
and daughters to honor their parents,
prayed the Lord to help and bless us Re-
marks were made by Sisters Thurber,
Freeze and Cellars. From Monroe the
sisters traveled to Annabella holding a meet-
ing at 3 p. m., also a meeting was held at
Inverury at 5 p. in., making three meet-
ing s in one day. The party then returned
to Richfield and at 10 a, m. May 9, held
meetings in Glenwood. From Glenwood to
Vermilion holding meeting at 10a. m. May
10 and thence to Aurora, meeting, conven-
ing at 3 p. m. the same day. Remained in
Aurora over night, and next morning,
May 11, held meeting in Redmond. Meet-
ing convened at Salina at 3 p. m. Return-
ed to Richfield Saturday May 12. Sister
Freeze returning home to Salt Lake City.
The remarks at Glenwood by President
Freeze were particularly interesting. She
dwelt on the trials of the sisters in plural
marriage and how by trusting in the Lord
we might be able to overcome ourselves.
Instructed us to be humble and do away
with our pride. Through our trials we
might be drawn nearer to our Father.
President Freeze expressed her pleasure and
surprise at seeing so many beautiful,as well
as intelligent young ladies in this Stake of
Zion. A general good time was enjoyed,
the sisters meeting with kindness and hos-
patility in all of their travels.
