ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake,
met in conference on Friday March 9th
1894, in the meeting house at Thatcher.
President Wilmirth East presided.  Meet-
ings were held at 10. a. m. and 2. p. m.
Present on the stand of the presiding
priesthood were Presidents Layton and
Johnson, Patriarch P. C. Merrill and
Bishop Claridge of Thatcher.  President
East made a few opening remarks in which
she expressed her thankfulness for the
health of the people generally, and the
beautiful weather which had permitted so
many to meet together; testified of the evil
which is abroad in the land and exhorted
the sisters to diligence in the performance
of their duties.  Suggested the reading of
the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine and Cov-
enants in the Society meetings, explained the
duties of Relief Society teachers and
emphasized the importance of visiting the
sick and destitute, whether Jew or Gentile,
urged the societies to keep on hand material
for the burying of the dead.
	Verbal reports were given from the follow-
ing branches of the Society, Thatcher,
Pima, Layton, Central, Graham, Mathews,
Bryce and Curtis, which showed them in
good condition with an increased attendance
during the last quarter with one or two
exceptions.
	President C. Layton said the sisters this
morning have taught us life and salvation.
All should be cared for especially those born
heirs to the kingdom.  The young of both

[Column 2]
sexes should be very choice in their selec-
tion of companions for life.
	The names of the officers of the Central
Board and Stake were presented by the
secretary and unanimously sustained by
the congregation.  Counselor Mary L.
Ransom, spoke on the observance of the
laws of life and health, economy and in-
dustry, the influence of the mother over her
offspring etc. The meeting then closed un-
til 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session:  The speakers were
Sisters Cluff, Warren, Ransom and Patria-
arch P. C. Merrill, who spoke in behalf of
his wife, Syrena first counselor to President
East, who was detained at home in conse-
quence of ill health, also Sister Nancy
Rollins and President East.  The subjects
spoken on in the morning were referred to
and enlarged upon, particularly that of the
responsibility of the mother in the rearing
and training of her children.  Conference
adjourned for three months.  Benediction
by G. W. Williams.
				SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.

