[The Responsibility of Relief Society Members to Their Homes and the Priesthood by Stephen L Richards]

RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS There must have been a divine end to be subserved in this organization, and it is evident that this end is being subserved in the progress of your work. I have been very interested indeed to learn of the attention which you have given to families and to homes. As I have been over the Church in the last thirty or forty years, I have tried to be an advocate of the Latter-day Saint home, in all its superior aspects. I have taken the position that there is nothing in our whole society so important and so contributive to our welfare as the fundamental institution of the home.
After all, the home is the very foundation of government. In the old patriarchal days, the head of the household was the head of the tribe or the head of the nation. He was the lawgiver and he was the judge, and many of the nations of the world have carried forward a purity of blood that has made them little more than enlarged families, and there may be more than we can fully realize in the expression which we so frequently use, "the blood of Israel." The family concept is one of the major and most important of our whole theological doctrine, and as I frequently have said, our very concept of heaven itself is little more than a projection of the home into eternity, and you will find, of course, verification of that in our scriptures, particlarly in the 132nd section of the Doctrine and Covenants. So that I subscribe most heartily to the appeal made to lend all possible aid to the care of this sacred institution of home. As_ Sister Spafford was mentioning the ter- 797 rible conditions which prevail in some homes by reason of split families, or by reason of divorces and inattention to the home, it occurred to me that you sisters might do an immense preventive work in these tragic conditions. I used to be a lawyer and practice at the bar; I've tried many divorce cases. I've heard the evidence of the plaintiff and the defendant and their witnesses, and I long ago reached the conclusion that the major part of all our domestic troubles begins with trifling irritations, irritations about affairs, finances, and other more or less trivial things connected with the home.
There are so many problems that it is sometimes difficult for both of the partners in this great relationship to see alike. I remember once reading of an old preacher who had married a couple, and some time afterwards the man went back to this preacher and said to him, "I thought thou toldst me that morning when I came out of Geasely Church with my bride on my arm, that I'd got to the end of all my troubles." "Oh, yes," said the preacher, "I did tell thee so, but I didn't tell thee which end." So there are these constant irritations that come into a home if everything isn't just right. Now sisters, if your work as visitthan a projection of the home into ing teachers could be extended to eternity, and you will find, of course, include, as perhaps it is intended verification of that in our scrip- so to do, something of discreet intures, particlarly in the 132nd sec- vestigation as to what the relationtion of the Doctrine and Covenants, ship of the husband and the wife
So that I subscribe most heartily in that home is, and as to whether to the appeal made to lend all pos- or not they are suffering with some sible aid to the care of this sacred of these irritations and quarreling, institution of home. As Sister it might be that, with some careful
Spafford was mentioning the ter- admonition, there could be nipped

798 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— b EC EMBER 1951 in the bud a situation that results I'll venture that if there could in a divorce. What a blessing that be assessed the amount of food would be! that has been prepared by the When I think how lightly the Relief Society to bring to the homes marriage compact is viewed by of the people of this Church (and many people, without regard to the those not of this Church) after a children, those who suffer most, in- funeral, it would be prodigious in nocent victims of these disturbed its amount. What a kindly service! family relationships, I think that There is scarcely a death in a ward anyone who can save a marriage is where these kind sisters do not make entitled not only to a great personal provision to bring comfort and satisfaction, but is entitled to the blessedness to those who need it. blessings of our Father who is in- I never go to a funeral that I don't terested in the preservation of these observe the Relief Society sisters, sacred institutions. I don't know looking after the flowers, and helpas it would be violating a confidence fng the people. These are simple to say to you here today that one services and they are of very great these divorces, and to help to avoid *$ of * but ve been acquainted those situations would be a marvel- Wlth fcial work to a sufficient exous contribution *ent ™a* * *now * na* a'l social work cal welfare of the people, and the \yE do need constructive care good that they have done in their and constructive attention to unobtrusive way can never be writ- our problems, but I think our sisten. It goes beyond even our com- ters are capable of doing this, and prehension, these dear sisters who I hope that they will not depart far have quietly carried in things where from the time-honored practice and they have been needed, and have procedure which take them inhelped the bedridden wife and to the homes as friends and neighmother, and have come to the relief bors with love and sympathy to reof those suffering from the depriva- quite the necessities of those who tion of loved ones. need them.

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS 799
So I pay my tribute to the visit- sympathetic with what our women ing teachers of this great organiza- do and the contribution they make tion, who, over generations, have to the home, and, for my own part, been ministering angels of mercy i say that it is the biggest contribuand comfort and encouragement to tion 0f au But for tne good of the their neighborhood. home and for its preservation, I have en of, when as I understand it, Wl11 make a distmct contribution to among other instructions, the Proph- the children also. And I always reet Joseph Smith said that the worn- gret seeing a woman do anything to en were to provoke their men to belittle her husband, even for his good works. I have sometimes won- mistakes, before her children, and dered if that was a very wise choice l have been hurt time and time of a word. My wife always uses it on again when l have been in homes me if I think she goes too far. She and seen a man embarrassed, and says she has official warrant to "pro- l likewise have no sympathy with a voke" me. But the meaning was that husband who would embarrass his the sisters should help their hus- wife before her children, bands of the Priesthood. Sister Spafford has defined from the original in- WE are under a government of structions, the relationship of the law. We are under the govern-
Priesthood to the sisters, and there ment of the law of the Lord in Zion are a few aspects of that subject and we are under the governthat I think might with propriety ment of the law of the land where be brought to your attention. First, we live. Few things contribute a marriage is a partnership, a mar- more to respect for the law and riage is a compact between a man established authority than the pracand wife. But a Latter-day Saint tices of the home. I'll tell you, you marriage carries with it something can't very well expect to teach remore than the worldly compact, spect for authority if you permit
The Latter-day Saint marriage car- your husband to be belittled in the ries the understanding that a man presence of your children. So I draw of the Priesthood is to stand at the that to your attenti on, because I behead of his household. lieve as we preserve the integrity
Fve been a little concerned, at of the home as it was meant to be, times, about the attitude that I have we will do that which we should observed arising from women who for the building up of the kingdom, were so intent upon the emphasis I want your menfolks to be worto be placed on this partnership, thy to be sustained as the heads of that they were not willing to take the household, that goes without any subordinate, if it may be called saying, but in your sympathetic unsubordinate position. Now I am derstanding, even at the sacrifice

800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— DECEMBER 1951 of what may seem to be a little of herence to all of his duties and reyour own dignity, I ask you to try sponsibilities. to sustain them before their chil- We need your help in the recladren as the heads of the household, mation of some men, not only in The men need your help in other their encouragement, but we need respects. It may seem a little bit your help in their reclamation. And odd that I should appear before you I'm sure that our sisters, exercising here today to ask you to help their influence wisely, can be a great us with the Priesthood of this means of bringing back a lot of men
Church, but I make that appeal, who have been negligent, and who Sisters, you know what the Priest- have gone astray. I know it's a sorhood means to those who bear it, row to many of you, a great sorrow, you know how important it is that to have your men go astray, and I they should magnify their callings, think you can give help without beand I trust that you know that the ing offensive, and that help will man who fails to use his Priesthood be rewarded. So attention to these will lose it. You do not want opportunities, I am sure, my dear the men of the Priesthood to lose sisters, will bring great good for the their Priesthood; you want to help Church. I've always said that if them and you want to encourage two things in this Church were them. right everything else would be right.
Our men need to attend their The Priesthood and the home are meetings more than they do. I hope those two things. You, of course,
*they are always encouraged so to do are chiefly responsible for one of by their wives. I recognize the fact them, or largely so, and you can that when a man comes home at help infinitely in the other one. night after work his wife needs him.
She has cared for the children all 1VOW a good deal is said these day; she is tired as he is. She could days about women getting out, use his help and his influence in the getting out of the home, getting discipline of the children and in away from all of the drudgery and helping her with them, and it's a relieving themselves from some of great sacrifice to her to be deprived the burden that women carry. I am of his company when she needs glad Sister Spafford said what she him. But if that man has a Priest- did about our wives working. I hood meeting, I hope that you dear suppose that our wives will consisters will say, "Jonn> you go to sider, some of them, that they need your meeting, I'll get along. You to work. I regret it, at least if they go to your meeting." If you say have families to care for, because that, you'll give him encouragement that is their first responsibility and and help and you'll be glad that you consideration. But this getting out took that course, for if that man of the home, going away much, maintains his position in the Priest- wanting to be on trips, not being hood, it will be the reward for your satisfied with home and family, I sacrifice, and God will bless you am sure you can do much to comand your family by his close ad- bat that idea. The women that

THE RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS 801 want to get away from home are all born up in the hospital, and it the women that never learn to have was always thought to be the propany real pleasure and enjoyment in er custom for old folks to die at their home with their children, home, and now they go to Cali-
They want to get away, because they fornia." So, after all, there isn't are often unhappy. much doing in the home with a My dear old mother told me that good many of these people, for the first twenty-five years that Some of the work may seem to she was married, she never was be mundane, but it is not. There is away from home twenty-four hours no menial, there is no mundane at one time. Now it's different, I work in raising a family of God's guess, but she was not an unhappy children to return them to their woman; anybody who knew her will eternal home whence their spirits testify that she wasn't. She was a came. So great is the concept of very happy mother and a happy that undertaking, so glorious the woman. And for the first quarter vision of that which follows, that century of her married life, she gave it must, of necessity, give spiritual herself to her home and her chil- import and great significance to dren, and made them 