[Marion George Romney—Our New Apostle by Harold B. Lee]

Marion George Romney—Our New Apostle Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve N a testimony meeting of the General Authorities called by the President of the Church on the first Thursday of a new year, one of the brethren, in bearing his testimony, thanked the Lord for his childhood home; for a lovely mother and a splendid God-fearing father.
Another of the brethren, commenting on the remarks of the ' former, declared it was his conviction that had it not been that each in that circle came from the kind of home described, not one would likely have ever been called to his present position as one of the General Authorities of the Church. Of the childhood home of Marion G.
Romney that observation is fully merited. His father, George S. Romney, and his mother, Artamesia Redd, both of pioneer ancestors, were themselves pioneers in settling the "Colonies" in Old Mexico, about two hundred miles south of the Mexican border. Marion, the eldest. Son in a family of ten children, was born in Colonia Juarez, Mexico, on September 109, 1897. Sometime, if you would hear of one of the most dramatic and trying episodes in the Church history of our day, ask Elder Romney to relate the experiences of his family, he being then a boy of fourteen, when they were forced to leave Mexico in 1912, along with hundreds of other families, in what  devoted - is referred to as the "Exodus," as a result of the mobbings and plunderings of Mexican revolutionists headed by the rebel leader, Pancho Villa. His recital would tell of a frightened little family, his father's family, loaded on a wagon with but the barest of household necessities and no clothing except that which they wore, fleeing from their childhood home before the Mexican mob at the point of drawn guns. The story of that homeless family, in destitute circumstances, seeking refuge in El Paso, then in California, and finally to Oakley and Rexburg, Idaho, is one which tells of a continuous struggle to maintain its independence on a small family income which was always faithfully tithed. 'That narrative would: describe the near perfect family teamwork organized and directed by father and mother, as the family preserved their pride and dignity toward the ultimate goal of building strong, sterling characters in each of ten sturdy children as a result of the never-ending tussle with stern necessity.
During the last ten and one-half years, Elder Romney has been in charge of the office activities and field operations of the Church Welfare Program. We have worked side by side with him for all these years in this work and have seen MARION GEORGE ROMNEY—OUR NEW APOSTLE 803 the workings of his rugged, individualistic nature tempered by a keen, sympathetic understanding of the problems of the unfortunate. Who knows but that through the experiences of the Mexican "Exodus," and the years which followed, there was being forged under the watchful eye of the Almighty a sharp, finely tempered human instrument in the person of Marion G.
Romney to be used under the call of the Lord to cut a pattern in demonstration of the Lord's way in caring for his saints in a day when man-made systems had ll but destroyed the Christian concept of "pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their afflictions.."? IS call to his present high place is unquestionably the seal of divine approval upon his labors in this great latter-day movement. But there is another characteristic deeply rooted in his nature THE MARION G. ROMNEY FAMILY Front row, seated: Elder Marion G. Romney; Granddaughter, Catherine; Sister Ida Jensen Romney.
Back row: Richard J. Romney; his wife, Joanne Ware Romney; George J. Romney. 804 which is almost the ruling passion of his life. I speak of his great sense of loyalty to those whom we sustain as Church leaders. To him loyalty doesn't mean merely to accept blindly the counsel of Church Authorities, but, beyond that, the responsibility of receiving the witness in his heart that their counsel was inspired and could be accepted without reservation. On the occasion of a spirited political campaign in which he was a candidate, when the leaders of the Church let their feelings be known as to some of the issues involved, I heard him say something like this, "As soon as I read their statement I knew that I wanted to do just what they had suggested. But I also knew that I must feel right in my heart in so doing and that took almost a night on my knees to attain." It might be said that he has the great quality of intelligent obedience to those in authority over him, rather than that of blind obedience, which is frequently the subject of much discussion.
Many men say their prayers, but there are a few who talk with the Lord. Elder Romney is one of these few. His great faith is such as to believe that when we have been confronted with insurmountable obstacles, where the welfare of the membership of the Church is at stake, that if we gave the Holy Ghost a chance to work on those of the opposition, as an_ early Church leader advised, those obstacles could be overcome. We have been a witness with him of this.
Truth when pleading the cause of this people before high-placed officials in the Nation's Capital. 
You who have heard him in public discourse know his forthrightness and directness as a speaker. His sermons give evidence of much thoughtful study and deep understanding of the gospel principles.
With it all, he has a keen sense of humor, which is spontaneous and refreshing and yet not beyond the bounds of propriety. But no sketch of the life of Brother Romney would be complete without mention of his family, to which he, as with every Church leader, must look for strength and support. His faith, combined with an intense love of his family, is so great that it is altogether probable, even as with Alma of old, that should one of his loved ones stray away, he or she could be surrounded and influenced by powers divine because of the spiritual pleadings of this devoted father and brother.
Perhaps no influence in his life exceeds that of his lovely, devoted wife, Ida Jensen Romney, to whom he gives full credit for her great contribution to the same cause of righteousness to which he has dedicated his life. Her Relief Society presidency has provided the opportunity of giving her an even deeper insight, if that were possible, into the Church life of her illustrious husband in the Welfare Program during the last ten years. The fact that he has been an athlete, a carpenter, an attorney, and a vigorous, aggressive worker, provides his two sons, Richard and George, with a worthy example and competitor, constantly challenging them to give their best as the bearers of the Romney name. (Continued on page 870)