[Vol46 | March 1959 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V46_03_00_Misc]
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - = = - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Edith S. Elliott Josie B. Bay Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Florence J. Madsen Christine H. Robinson Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Leone G. Layton Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Pearle M. Olsen Blanche B. Stodderd Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Elsa T. Peterson Evon W. Peterson Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Irene B. Woodford

VOL. 46 FEBRUARY 1959 NO. 2 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1958 by the General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Editorial and Business Offices: 76

Utah. The price is 20c, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1958 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 207.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, leather $3.50, including the index. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1958 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. (Dramatization "Women of the New World. Available to Relief Society An entertaining and educational dramatization "Women of the New World," by Madeline Silver, is available at the office of the General Board of Relief Society. The dramatization portrays effectively important women featured in the 1958-59 literature course. 'This dramatization could be appropriately used by ward Relief Societies in a closing social. Nine characters are represented, and the time required for presentation would be thirty to forty-five minutes. Price 15c per copy General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah —.

$8.50 POCKET TRIPLE COMBINATION Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price, bound in genuine leather. $6.00 White leather $6.75 + i ne we LO OD ie aeuamannenl Doseretl Book Co. 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City, Utah How to 4 fee. ¥ re. Changes With the passing come quickly. There may be new additions to your family—like Stevie. Perhaps you've just bought a new house.. Or Dad has a promotion. Years, Fach of these changes mean a corresponding change in your family's financial picture. And this means that your life insurance program should be reviewed periodically to keep it make your life insurance more BENEFICIAL... Ya up to date to make it more Beneficial to your family. Your Beneficial man will be happy to recommend the best one for your family size and income. Ask him especially about the new Benefactor Plan that provides insurance for every member of the family. Call him soon, or mail the coupon. BENEFICIAL LIFE Beneficial Life Insurance Company Beneficial Building Salt Lake City, Utah Send me new folder giving more complete details about Beneficial's new family Package Plan. /s your B Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah