[Vol46 | March 1959 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Williams]
[The Angel Tree Helen S. Williams]

When the children grow to adolescence, they will be more likely to spend their leisure time at home with the family, if they are allowed to live in the house when they are small. Love Me Tomorrow Rosa Lee Lloyd Vioowie sped upstairs to read David's special delivery letter. "Dinner is almost ready, Viv," Julie called after her. Vivian didn't answer. Closing the bedroom door, she leaned back against it, breathlessly. David had promised not to write or telephone until she decided to marry him and go to the mountains of South America for the next five years, a big opportunity for a mining enginecr. "Give me one week away from you, David," she had coaxed him, "and I will make up my mind. The studio will give me a vacation." "Tf you love me." he had begun. "But I do love you, David. So much that I have to be fair with you. I want to be sure I am willing to give up my weekly singing spot on I'V to go with you." So she had come to Springville, her home town, to visit her schoolgirl chum, Julie Hansen, her husband Ken, and their three-year-old twins. But it had only plunged her deeper into doubt and confusion. Touching David's letter brought him close again; his honest eyes, his deep persuasive voice, like warm honey, his tallness and dark bushy hair, defying popular style. Vivian closed her eyes, holding the letter against her cheek. Was love enough? Would it compensate for the success she had slaved for and the satisfaction she knew each week on her nation-wide program? Sighing wistfully, she opened David's letter, Page 184 My darling: I know I promised to let you have your week undisturbed, but word came from Haskin that I must leave a week earlier than our original plans. I don't want to go without you, Sweetheart, but you must make up your mind by yourself. All I can say is that I love you and will do everything I can to make you happy. We will have to make arrangements for our temple marriage earlier than we had planned, if you say yes. Waiting for your answer, David A week earlier! The thought struck vividly across her heart. How could she let him go to that faraway place without her? Should she go with him? Life there was almost primitive, he had warned her. No beauty salons or restaurants, no laundries, only untrained native women to help with housework. "Oh, Vivy!"