[Vol46 | March 1959 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Hull]
[A Mother's Prayer Verio R. Hull]

The influence of a mother's good taste and guidance can be of value to boys and girls all their lives. Page 190 Clothes for children can be made just as attractive, just as becoming, as the ready-made ones. Mothers, in their sewing, must pay attention to important little details to achieve this. 'Too often they are impelled by economy to buy cheap fabrics, © instead of buying the best available, appropriate fabric. If these nicer materials are styled with an eye to becomingness, fit, and fashion, they could no doubt duplicate, at a fraction of the cost, the attractive garments shown in the most exclusive shops. Top designers of children's clothes never skimp on skirt fullness. 'They use two full widths for the perky look. 'They make deep hems — the deeper the better. They make collars appropriately narrow and, if tiny pockets and tinier puffed sleeves are needed for a chic appearance, that is the way the dresses are made. They size clothes to fit when new, not for children to grow into. 'Too many mothers make or buy clothes that never look their best because they are old and shabby before they fit. (Let-out possibilities will be treated in a later lesson. ) Designers say that mothers too often lose the style of their children's clothes in their desire to be practical. 'There should be no compromise with becomingness at any age. A grain of practicality is fine, if all style is not sacrificed for it. HE actual savings accomplished by a mother who sews can be of great importance in any budget. More clothes are possible and, in YOU CAN SEW—XIII—SELECTION OF CHILDREN'S CLOTHES 191 addition to this, clothes can be made individually becoming. A clever seamstress can learn to "fit out" physical defects in her children and compensate for "the awkward age" when they are growing up and nothing seems to fit. Chest and waist measurements are important in cutting clothes to fit children. Rarely are individuals of the same age exactly the same size. Alter the size of pattern pieces to fit the child's own measurements. This is done in accordance with pattern instructions. Make sure that shoulders are not too wide. Scarcely anything is as annoying and conducive to bad temper as a shoulder seam that drops down and catches the arm every time it is raised. It ls equally bad in appearance. Waistlines look better on girls, as well as boys, if they are properly located — not too high and certainly not too low. The length of a little girl's skirt is every bit as important to her smart appearance as is her mother's. 'There are certain fabrics that are always favored for children. There will be new designs and new colors from season to season, but, in the main, smooth surfaces that are easy to iron and avoid picking up lint and dirt are preferable to novelty weaves. Sunfast colors are essential in children's clothes, and fabrics should be firm enough to hold buttons and buttonholes or hammer-on snaps. At a time when the choice of fabrics ls almost limitless, it seems that the wise mother should choose for her children the ones that are easy to care for. Any child will be happier in clothes he doesn't have to worry about spoiling. All budgets will be happier without big cleaning bills. So why not dress the children exclusively in clothes that can be laundered easily? You will find in this class plenty of sturdy types, as well as those that are dainty and very dressy in appearance. Start today to make the careful selection of style, color, and fabric the first important step in a successful family sewing venture.