[Vol46 | March 1959 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Old | Author: Wright]
MOUNTAIN The Old Man of the Mountain Martha Robeson Wright E stood beside the still waters in the warmth of the early June sun, and except for the occasional chirp of a bird, there was absolute peace and quiet. On the opposite shore of the small, tranquil Profile Lake, 1,060 feet above the green forest on Cannon Mountain, the noble, granite profile of a man gazed ever southeastward, as he had been doing for untold years, in solitary dignity. No one spoke as we looked up at nature's handiwork of classic grandeur. For this was the Old Man of the Page 164 Mountain, the Great Stone Face of Hawthorne's famous allegory, in the Franconian Notch Pass in the heart of New Hampshire's White Mountains, about which Whittier wrote: "The Great Notch Mountains shone, watched over by the solemn-browed and awesome face of stone." The mountainous region of the Great Stone Face in the north central part of New Hampshire, in Grafton County, may be reached from United States Highway 3 running north from Boston, Massa- THE OLD MAN OF THE MOUNTAIN chusetts, or from U. S. 2 running eastward from Montpelier, Vermont. New Hampshire, one of the New Fngland States known as "the Cradle of America," is one of the beauty spots of this continent. The White Mountains, high and in places precipitous, with outcroppings of granite in the heavily wooded peaks, abound with rock formations of weird shapes, like Cannon Rock, Old Lady, Indian Head, and 'he Watcher. In the White Mountain Glacier Park, you will find a menagerie of stone: elephant, sea lion, polar bear, bear, camel, dog, turtle, rabbit, and fish. Also a "giant's footprint" embedded in the granite. As "keeper of the zoo" is the stone face of George Washington. The Polar Caves, the "rock garden of the giants," are like nothing else on the North American continent, formed of granite, whereas most caves are of limestone. But to me, the most thrilling sight was that of the Old Man of the Mountain, viewed by over fifty million people since its discovery by white men in 1805. It brought back Hawthorne's mythical village at the base of the mountain, where the inhabitants, year after year, sought to find a man whose nobility of spirit would cause him to resemble the noble profile of the Great Stone Face, only to realize that Ernest, one of their own number, had become the living counterpart. It is believed that the likeness was carved by the severeness of the Franconian winters, after eruptions, millions of years ago, of earthquakes and glowing lava that spewed itself over the region, where it cooled in- 165 to the rock now known as Conway granite. Over the centuries, erosion, landslides, and water, slowly carried off the top-soil and exposed the granite to the elements, leaving the Notch and the peaks as they are today. 'Then a mighty glacier covered them with ice and snow for thousands of years. It left the high southeast cliff of Cannon Mountain bold and steep. Rain, sleet, and snow of the severe winters seeped into the cracks, expanding the rocks and causing tons of them to slide from the cliff. This left ledges blending into each other and forming the Profile. Finally, the frost broke away a thirty-ton block of granite that slid down to form the Profile's forehead. Thus, the Old Man of the Mountain, forty-eight feet from the tip of his forehead to the bottom of the chin, stood for centuries, apparently unnoticed by Indian tribes in the region, for no mention of it can be found in the Indian legends. NEW Hampshire history records that a narrow path had been broken through the Notch by Indian war parties driving white captives to remote bases. As the colonists drove the Indians back, the first freight was transported through the Notch in 1771, and the little town of Franconia was settled in 1774, but it was not until 1805 that a road was built and the Great Stone Face was discovered. 'Iwo parties of surveyors claim to have this distinction. One is that Luke Brooks and Francis Whitcomb stopped by Profile Lake to wash and drink. They straightened up, and one saw the Old Man of the Mountain. The other version is that Nathaniel Hall, 166 also a road worker, went out early in the morning to shoot partridges for breakfast. He happened to look up and hurried back to camp to tell of his discovery. At first, the news spread slowly. Most of the visitors arrived on horseback to see Mt. Washington, 6,293 feet high, but went on to view the face after a guidebook was issued in 1823. Hawthorne visited the Old Man in 1832 and wrote his famous story. Presidents Jackson and Pierce, Lafayette, Longfellow, Whittier, Emerson, 'Thoreau, and Daniel Webster came to marvel.