[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson III - Literature - Some of Tennysons Minor Poems]

LESSON . LITERATURE. (Optional) Some of Tennyson's Minor Poems. Some of Tennyson's poems might almost be styled wisdom literature;  at all events they deal with the deep problems of life and death. "Tithonus," a poem with a Greek name, presents one of life's problems. We have, in this ancient gentleman, one who is destined to live the mortal life, forever, because, forsooth, favored of the Gods, he had asked for immortality. Then he sees all things about him die in season and refresh themselves again, while he alone wanders a "whitehaired shadow roaming like a dream." He watches the spring come forth in all its loveliness and freshness, and in the agony of his soul cries out, "The woods decay, the woods decay and fall. The vapors weep their burden to the ground, Man comes and tills the earth and lies beneath. And after many a summer dies the swan. Me only cruel immortality consumes;  I wither slowly in thine arms. Here at the quiet limit of the world." In this same anguish, Tithonus cries to the gods, to take back their gift, moaning: "Why should a man desire in any way To vary from the kindly race of men Or pass beyond the goal of ordinance. Where all should praise as is most meet for all?" Sometimes we hear people express themselves in a fashion that would lead us to believe that they are just a little like Tithonus. They are like him in that they wish they might live forever or that their loved ones might live forever. Tennyson, in using this old Greek legend, would have us understand that no matter how natural and innate the longing for immortality may be, it must come in the manner in which God has provided, and not in a way man might suggest, for death as well as life is of God's order. The "Ancient Sage" is another poem full of profound thought. The very name suggests wisdom. In the "Ancient Sage" we have the picture of one who has sounded the depths of knowledge and knows that wisdom lies beyond, and who having done so, instructs others thus: "Thou canst not prove the nameless, O my son, Nor canst thou prove the world thou movest in, Thou canst not prove that thou art body alone. Nor canst thou prove that thou art spirit alone, Nor canst thou prove that thou art both in one. Thou canst not prove thou art immortal — no. Nor yet that thou art mortal — nay, my son, Thou canst not prove that I, who speak with thee, Am not thyself in converse with thyself, For nothing worthy proving can be proved. Nor yet disproven, therefore thou be wise, Cleave ever to the sunnier side of doubt. And cling to faith beyond the forms of faith! "She reels not in the storm of warring words. She brightens at the clash of 'yes' and 'no.' She sees the best that glimmers through the worst, She feels the sun is hid but for a night, She spies the summer through the winter bud, She tastes the fruit before the blossom falls, She hears the lark within the songless egg, She finds the fountain where they wailed mirage!" Many of the most vital truths of existence are not capable of the kind of proof that scholars choose to call scientific;  this, no doubt, is one of the reasons why it is impossible to please God without faith. In "Lady Clara Vere de Vere," we find a stanza reading: 'Trust me. Clara Vere de Vere, From yon blue heavens above us bent. The garden Adam and his wife Smile at the claims of long descent, However it be, it seems to me, 'Tis only noble to be good. Kind hearts are more than coronets, And simple faith than Norman blood." The British people accepted this as a statement of Tenny- 
 son's democratic outlook on life;  nor did they feel that he had marred the statement, even when he was raised to the peerage. Another quotation from Tennyson, occurring in Locksley Hall, has received marked attention from orators and writers in the decade that has just past. It reads, "I, the heir of all the" ages in the foremost files of time." Here the poet gratefully acknowledges the debt of humanity to a past rich in religion, philosophy, science, art, and music. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Read Tithonus through with care, and determine what great lesson it teaches. 2. Do you fancy that living forever in the mortal state could bring happiness to anyone? Give your reasons for the stand you take. 3. John the Revelator and the three Nephites are permitted to remain upon the earth until Christ's second coming. In order to do this, did they undergo any change? Why were they thus privileged? 4. What characteristic of the swan's life leads the poet to say, "And after many a summer dies the swan."? 5. Give evidence of the truth of the statement — that "nothing worthy proving can be proved." 6. How does this support the stand taken by the Latter day Saints that though they may be unable to prove to another that Jesus is the Christ, yet they may know positively that he is the Christ. 7. What do you think Tennyson meant when he styled us heirs of all the ages? 8. Name some religious leaders of the past to whom we are indebted. 9. Name some musicians of the past whose music still enriches our lives. Some poets. Some artists. 10. Quote lines from Tennyson that indicate his democratic attitude towards life. GUIDE LESSONS