[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Needs of Yesterday Bertha A. Kleinman]

THE NEEDS OF YESTERDAY.
Bertha A. Kleinman.
Unbowed of years nor yet of pungent sorrow,
Unsmirched of doubt that probes its avid way,
I yet have need of grace and a tomorrow
To right the many wrongs of yesterday.
The many hours I have not Hved to filling.
The wasted days of empty little wiles,
The crying tasks that have not found me willing-
The span of cloud that needed but my smiles ;
The fleeting beats of chance so easy squandered,
The thousand little precious waits of time —
And all the ways of quest I have not wandered,
Where timid ones might cling to hands of mine.
Ah me ! the little zest and care expended.
The meager, little, momentary zeal —
To others' wrongs that might have been amended.
And rasping little hurts that I could heal !
O Thou who knowest every throb of sorrow.
Bear still with me, for I would know the way,
That somewhere in the might of Thy tomorrow,
I may amend the needs of yesterday !

the needs and requirements of the Church. Ward clerks keep the statistics of births, christenings, and baptisms, and their duties are quite as important as are those of temple or family recorders. The qualifications of a recorder are named in this revelation and imply a type of mind peculiar in itself. Not all persons are accurate, either in vision or observation. One who possesses rich imaginative qualities is apt to see many questions with large vision and some times with inaccurate proportions. No two people observe alike, but some have a logical and clerical turn of mind, are without imagination themselves but are gifted with careful observation, and if their minds are cultivated such people become excellent clerks, bookkeepers, and recorders. Those who do not possess these gifts may cultivate them, for the imagination can be harnessed and the observation cultivated. So important is this fact of observation that the Lord requires witnesses, at least two, who shall testify to the accuracy of the recorder. All democratic courts of justice recognize the inability of any one person to determine vital 
 points through mere observation and two or more witnesses are required to establish evidence. The prophet tells us in the revelation that this particular mode of procedure in regard to recorders was arranged before the world was created and he adds as evidence of this the words of John the Revelator, chapter 20, verse 12, when John saw the dead who were judged out of the books standing before God. No more solemn announcement was given from the prophet's inspired lips than the declaration contained in verses seven and eight of this revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants. He declares: Whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven;  and whatsoever you do not record on earth, shall not be recorded in heaven;  for out of the books shall your dead be judged, according to their own works, whether they themselves have attended to the ordinances in their own propria persona, or by the means of their own agents, according to the ordinance which God has prepared for their salvation from before the foundation of the world, according to the records which they have kept concerning their dead. It may seem to some to be very bold doctrine that we talk of — a power which records or binds on earth, and binds in heaven. Nevertheless, in all ages of the world, whenever the Lord has given a dispensation of the Priesthood to any man by actual revelation, or any set of men, this power has always been given. Hence, whatsoever those men did in authority, in the name of the Lord, and did it truly and faithfully, and kept a proper and faithful record of the same, it became a law on earth and in heaven, and could not be annulled, according to the decrees of the great Jehovah. This is a faithful saying! Who can hear it? And again, for the precedent, Matthew xvi. 18, 19;  "And I also say unto thee, that thou art Peter: and upon this rock I will build my church;  and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it;  and I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatsoever thou Shalt bind on earth, shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven." The awful weight which is here indicated as resting upon the shoulders of heirs and descendants in families and of family and temple recorders impresses our souls with the greatness of the work whereunto we have been called;  for there are only a few souls, comparatively speaking, in this Church and kingdom and they have been chosen "one of a city and two of a family," just as the Savior declared they would be to represent the tribes, clans and sub-tribes of the chosen seed of Israel. Each adult person in the Church represents many lines on both sides of his or her inheritance and rarely, indeed, do these surname families mix and merge with one another-. Students of genealogy in the Church assert GUIDE LESSONS 547 that few, if any families, are represented in other lines and by other individuals in the Church. The records on earth, so we are told, must agree, and as are the records on the earth in relation to your dead, which are truly made out, so also are the records in heaven. This, therefore, is the sealing and binding power, and, in one sense of the word, the keys of the kingdom which consist in the key of knowledge. "And now, my dearly beloved brethren and sisters, let me assure you that these are principles in relation to the dead, and the living, that cannot be lightly passed over, as pertaining to our salvation. For their salvation is necessary, and essential to our salvation, as Paul says concerning the fathers. 'that they without us cannot be made perfect; ' neither can we without our dead be made perfect." This revelation closed with a magnificent psalm of praise and a marshaling of the hosts of heaven and earth to join in the Prophet's poem of triumph and victory over the grave. QUESTIONS. 1. What are obligations? Why should the records in heaven and on earth agree? 2. What is the difference between a duty and an obligation? 3. Why would recorders be needed in various sections of the Church? 4. What would you consider the qualifications of a recorder? 5. Why do law courts require two or more witnesses? 6. How many witnesses testified to the life and labors of the Savior? 7. What can you say of the obligation resting upon the Latter-day Saints generally, in regard to their dead? 8. Describe some methods by which records might be kept in heaven?