CONTENTS
Mount Timpanogos from American Fork Canyon Frontispiece
Unwanted Sarah Ahlstrom Nelson 121
Portrait of Miss Mary E. Richmond 122
Mary E. Richmond Amy W. Evans 123
Spring is Here Jessie Sundwall 127
Women Legislators Annie Wells Cannon 128
My Canvases Merling D. Clyde 138
Editorial—Women and Peace 139
Women in the Congress of the United States 141
Selma Lagerlof Clara J. Fagergren 142
History of the Emancipation of Women H. C. Singer 148
Notes from the Field 152
Guide Lessons for May 153
My Child Merling D. Clyde 158
A Reverie 159

VOL. XVI MARCH, 1929 NO. 3
MOUNT TIMPANOGOS FROM AMERICAN FORK CANYON Courtesy of Dr. Walter Cottam.
THE Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XVI MARCH, 1929 No. 3
Mary E. Richmond Philanthropist and Social Worker By Amy W. Evans
On the second day of the new year of 1929, some of Mary E. Richmond's friends met in the hall of the Russell Sage Foundation, New York City. The meeting was held in her honor. They spoke of her personality and the qualities that made her the leader and the pioneer that she was in the field of social work. They told of some of her achievements and the depth and breadth of her influence upon the new profession she was instrumental in establishing. Many had known her for years as friend and coworker.
MARY RICHMOND'S SMILE
As a keynote of the occasion the first speaker said, "There was a certain smile that Mary Richmond reserved for bombast and overstatement. Pretense, exaggeration, words instead of ideas, would always evoke it. And so we must be cautious today and not exceed the facts; to try for the 'just word' that so delighted her, remembering that wise and quizzical smile. * * * We are gathered here to celebrate the fact that she was our great leader; and to lift up our hearts and strengthen our resolve in the light of her memory."
HER WORK AND CHARACTER
Through her books she was our friend and the woman of our organization, who, as so many have done, have studied "The Good Neighbor," "Social Diagnosis," "What is Social Case Work?" These have been a light and a guide to our feet in our efforts to improve our social welfare work. Miss Richmond, who died September 12, 1928, in New York City, was born in Belleville, Illinois, in 1861. Her parents died at an early age, and she went to live with her grandmother and an aunt in Baltimore. There she graduated from high school but, because of straitened circumstances, was unable to continue her formal education.
HER HARD WORK IN YOUTH
When she was sixteen, she went to New York to a position in a publishing house, but received a mere pittance as a wage. Becoming ill, she returned to Baltimore, where she found work as a bookkeeper in a store and later in a family hotel. During these years she was a student, reading constantly. All her life she had an unquenchable thirst for knowledge and ideas, and her reading was broad and varied. "She faced the bitter hardships of these early years honestly, and found her way out through hard intellectual work. She apparently never pitied herself, nor permitted fancy to smooth the rough edges of fact."
In 1889 the Charity Organization Society of Baltimore advertised for an assistant treasurer. Miss Richmond applied, because this work would take her out of doors, as it included the collecting of funds, and being physically frail she felt this would be good for her.
HER SOCIAL WORK BEGINS
"At once in her new work, she showed her characteristic keenness of perception and thoroughness. To be a good collector she must be able to interpret to others the work of the society. To interpret it well, she must have a first hand knowledge of the work itself." She soon became a friendly visitor, and that was the beginning of her social work. She was then twenty-eight years old.
Connected with the Baltimore Society at that time were three notable men, President Gilman of Johns Hopkins University, Mr. Charles J. Bonaparte, a leading lawyer, and John M. Glenn, "a rare personality who had become blind in early manhood, but lived in activity and marked intellectual insight." These men were quick to recognize ability and keenness of mind and, gave opportunity and encouragement for their development. They soon became aware of Miss Richmond's powers. She became the secretary of the Charity Organization Society, receiving their support in her plans to bring system and effectiveness into the charity work. At that time the work was mostly in the hands of volunteers; but the thinking men and women among them realized that their methods of giving "charity" were not satisfactory. It took the vision and courage of Miss Richmond to venture out of the trodden paths in the field of social work and discover new and better ones.
WHAT SHE ACCOMPLISHED
John M. Glenn, director of the Russell Sage Foundation, so long her co-worker and friend, said of her, "The death of Miss Richmond will be an incalculable loss to the whole field of social reform; for in her we have lost a fearless pioneer. Since her entrance into th