[Vol8 | July 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS, 429 Winter, white-breasted Snowdrift, wrinkle-browed Want, rosyfaced Laughter, and yet there are others. As memories of the wind storms in the mountains revive in President Penrose's mind, his thoughts go out in all tenderness to his wife and children as he calls to the wild winds with "frost in your breath" to "be gentle in Utah, my loved ones are there." After he has expressed his fear lest they should be too rudely visited by the winds of heaven, and should know the "fell Demon of Pain and wrinkle-browed Want," he implores the Angel of Gladness and the Spirit of Hope, on their mission of peace, to rest for a while where his loved ones reside. Surely no wife or children in Israel ever received a more beautiful message from their beloved companion and father, abroad, seeking for the salvation of his fellowmen, than that which came to the wife and children of President Penrose. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Under what circumstances was "School thy feelings," written? 2. Prove the statement that "there is power in the cool, collected mind." 3. Why is it necessary that "we hear defense before deciding?" 4. Relate some circumstance that goes to show that "time's a friend to innocence." 5. Prove that "noblest minds have finest feelings." 6. Under what circumstances was "O, ye mountains high" written? 7. Select the concrete particulars in the first stanza that make real the author's description of Zion. 8. Select the passages that bring out the emotional content of the hymn, or, in other words, those passages that show his devotion and love for Zion. 9. Under what circumstances was "Blow gently, ye wild winds" written? 10. Select a group of ten figures of speech in the hymn that appeal to you. 11. Select a group of compound adjectives or epithets that add to the effectiveness of the style. 12. Select a group of lines that indicate Elder Penrose's tender solicitude for his family. 
 LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in September) THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM The public school system, as now organized, consists of kindergarten schools for children under six years of age, elementary schools of six grades, junior high schools of three grades, senior high schools of three grades, and state colleges, normal schools and universities. These higher institutions provide a variety of professional education for graduates of senior high schools and for special students over eighteen years of age who are able to do some of the work offered by them. At present kindergarten schools are not generally maintained, except in cities. The session is a half day only, and the work is less formal than that provided for older pupils. The elementary 'school is universal. Until recently it consisted of eight grades. In most places, however, the seventh, and eighth grades have been joined with the ninth, and organized as a junior high school, also called in some states an intermediate school. The plan of having one teacher in charge of a room all day and doing all, or nearly all of the teaching given to one group of pupils is now generally confined to the first six grades. In the junior high school teachers are allowed to specialize in some degree through the privilege of teaching the same subject or closely related group of subjects to different classes of pupils, instead of teaching all subjects to one group of pupils. While some subjects, such as English, geography and arithmetic, are required of all pupils, there is opportunity for pupils to choose among other subjects, stich as manual training, modern language and algebra. Thus the school aims to fit more nearly the varying abilities, needs, and ambitions of pupils. The senior high school corresponds to what has been called "the high school," with the first of the four years (ithe ninth grade) taken away. Here all teachers work by departments of study, such as English, mathematics, biological sciences, physical sciences, social sciences. Very little of the work is prescribed for every pupil, only such universally necessary studies as English, citizenship and American government, and something in hygiene and physical education. This does not mean that a pupil should be allowed to elect studies haphazardly. There should be system and purpose in the studies selected by or for each pupil. Election of studies by GUIDE LESSONS 431 high school pupils should be conditioned upon approval of teachers and parents. In Utah recently there has developed a system of year-round supervision of health, vocational and civic activities of pupils between the ages of twelve and eighteen years; also a plan of parttime school education for youths who are excused from regular high school attendance to enter employment. The purpose of this new law is to insure cultivation of good health and moral habits, to eliminate idleness and encourage vocational training? in so far as attainment of these ends is possible. College education refers properly to the four years of study' next above the high school. These years of study may be either general or technical. General studies usually pass under the name of arts or general science; technical studies may be in agriculture, commerce, education, engineering or home economics. In a four year's college course some closely related general studies are taken with the technical work. Schools of law require at least one and schools of medicine at least two years of preliminary college work before entering upon technical studies. In both of these professions three or four years of college study is desirable as a basis for professional study and practice. University education proper is that professional study and research which comes after college education. The major portion of the work of our western state universities is college grade work. Only a few of the great educational institutions in America, such as Harvard, Columbia, and Johns Hopkins, are occupied primarily with real university work. QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 1. Why are there few kindergarten schools in rural districts?: 2. Are kindergarten schools more necessary in cities than in the country? Why or why not? 3. What are the advantages of shortening the elementary school and creating a junior high school department? 4. Ifa pupil is to study a modern language when should he begin this study? Why? 5. How can it be determined what studies any particular senior high school pupil should take, in addition to those prescribed by the school? 6. What facts should be taken into account in determining what college a youth should enter?; Note: Class teachers should look up the school laws of the state and be prepared to discuss them with the class. Consult the state Board of Education. MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS, LISTEN! The Missing Link of Health WE WILL NOT ACCEPT A CASE, REGARDLESS OF FEE, UNLESS WE CAN CONSCIENTIOUSLY PROMISE CURE OR RELIEF If we agree to accept you as our patient, you may know that it is because having studied your case carefully, we are confident we can help you?if not with a permanent cure, at least with a permanent improvement. Of this our patients are always sure, we will treat them until satisfied. Our motto: A permanently cured and satisfied patient is the best advertisement for Our Natural Curative Methods of Treatment. A WORD ABOUT OUR METHOD OF TREATING We want to lay stress on the fact that we treat all patients personally. All letters are opened by us personally and what our patients say to us in their letters is absolutely sacred. The Head Physician individually replies to each patient; and uses no form letters. His obligations in treating by mail are just as sacred to him as if he sat by your bedside or you were in his private consulting room. Our course is not in any sense of the word a simple case in mere common Physical Culture. It is infinitely more. It is a scientific application of Natural Curative Methods of Treatment to the individual needs and requirements of every ne placing himself or herself in our care for professional treatment and attention. OUR OPINION OF YOUR CASE FREE With a copy of our book, we will send you, also without cost or obligation, a diagnosis blank. If your health is not just what it should be or if you are a chronic invalid, no matter what disease you are troubled with whatsoever, all we ask is that you fill out the diagnosis blank; omit no detail. When you return the diagnosis blank, we will then make a thorough and searching study of vour case. If we can be of any help to you, we will write and tell you. We shall be equally frank if we find that we cannot be of help to you. In others words, we will give you the benefit of our expert medical opinion without any cost or obligation to you. After receiving our reply to your diagnosis blank then you can use your own judgment as to whether you wish to take up our treatment and avail yourself of our professional attention. CORRESPONDENCE TREATMENT Several Governors in the U. S. Have introduced Bills of late to establish correspondence courses to educate young men and women who are forced to work and cannot go to College. All honor to them, say many editors. The Drugless Health Sehool is doing along HEALTH lines, and for the TREATMENT OF DISEASE what the Governors mean to have done along educational lines.) HERE FOLLOWS A SAMPLE: "MY HEART IS FULL OF GRATITUDE AND HAPPINESS EVERY DAY" That is the closing sentence of a letter from a young woman who had had years of disease and many doctors almost from infancy, at great cost, more than $1,000, but with no improvement till she consulted us. She paid us but very little money. No one ever expected to see tnis young yoman CURED. She is now happily married and has a beautiful healthy child. So WHILE THERE'S LIFE there's HOPE, if right treatment can be had. Then think for a moment of how many men, women, boys and giris are right now in the identical same sad, down and out condition, really hopeless condition for want of the right treatment as yet unknown to them just as this young woman found herself in before consulting us by mail. STOMACH ULCERS: WEDDING INSTEAD OF FUNERAL, JUST A SAMPLE Trained Nurse Even Unable to Treat Herself for Stomach Ulcers. She was taken sick and grew worse under medical tratment in hospital. After three weeks there she found no improvement, and went home to die. At this stage the Natural Methods of Healing were applied in her case. She was vomiting everything she tried to eat, vomiting blood, and was a most tortured sufferer, indeed. She had rapidly lost flesh, of course. Under the right: treatment she was soon convalescent, free from pain, eating with pleasure and enjoyment, and some time later was married. In this experience with A REAL DOCTOR she actually learned more about FOOD AND FEEDING, about stomachs and rational treatment, than during all her years of training and nursing under ordinary medical treatment; and the cost was far less than she had paid for hospital and other treatment, all of which was hurrying her to the grave! NATURE CURE SAVED MY LIFE. ANOTHER SAMPLE OF A VERY SICK WOMAN "Three of the best physicians told me I would be compelled to have an operation for APPENDICITIS, Nevertheless I have had no pain or indication of it since following advices in Natural Methods of Healing eight years ago. It has been nothing less than a ?Godsend' to me." Hundreds of all kinds of cases of absolutely satisfied and astonished patients could be cited. THE CURE FOR APPENDICITIS, BAD TONSILS AND ADENOIDS is not obtained by eutting them out but by CLEANING them out. You can do this yourself under our positive careful directions by mail. Avoid the pain, trouble, worry, cost and risk of a needless operation. In more than thirty years practice our mother institute of Natural Methods of Healing has not had one single case requiring an operation for appendicitis, nor one recurring?and will absolutely not be necessary if our simple methods are followed. Female troubles of young and old and of every description most successfully treated right at your own home. OUR SPECIALTY: Diseases Beyond Medical Atd Our Specialty. Without medicine or knife.. In fact we solicit cases which doctors cannot cure. Successful Advice By Mail. Taught at your OWN HOME BY MOST PLEASANT AND INTERESTING CORRESPONDENCE EXCLUSIVELY so that you can refer to it at any time in sickness or in health, and you need not go from one doctor and one healing-scheme to another any longer, and time and money illy spent. Write us about any disease, chronic or acute. Disease is only incurable as long as wrong methods are used. SEND NO MONEY But please investigate. We most earnestly invite your investigation of our most successful method. OUR RECORD OF 96% SATISFIED PATRONS IS PROOF OF NATURE'S ABILITY TO RENEW HEALTH IN MEN, WOMEN AND CHILDREN. When writing us be sure to give your correct address. Address: THE DRUGLESS HEALTH INSTITUTE, LOGAN, UTAH. Health By Mail ee mers Lock Box 
 Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market WILL LAST A LIFE TIME?
 REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921, "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information - Temple Block Salt Lake City Going to Entertain at Dinner? Let us enter your order and deliver it in a manner that will cause you to also give us your future orders?daily. "DICKINSON'S" The Quality Service Store. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES. We are in step with the declining Market. W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mgr. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company ? Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling NOTICE The Relief Society Magazine Office is desirous of se- -curing the following Magazines: 4 February numbers of 1916 4 January numbers of 1915 4 May numbers of 1916 4 March numbers of 1915 4 July numbers of 1916 4 April numbers of 1915 4 September numbers of 19164 May numbers of 1915 4 November numbers of 1916 4 October numbers of 1915 4 December numbers of 1916 4 November numbers of 1915 4 March numbers of 1917 4 November numbers of 1917 Will pay 20c per copy for any of the above. Only perfect copies will be accepted.