[WomansExponent | Vol13 | 1884 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: EDITOR EXPONENT: | Author: Unknown]

EDITOR EXPONENT:		
	I thought I would write a few lines to our
much esteemed paper,so that the other Primary
Associations may have the opportunity of
knowing how we are getting along in East
Bountiful.
	We held our sixth annual meeting April
18th, 1885, in the Tabernacle.  There were
present one hundred and seventy-five children,
and quite a number of their parents, and of
course that was very encouraging to those who
preside.  We had a very good programme, con-
sisting  of  songs,  dialogues,  questions and
answers from the cards.  One dialogue,  by
seven little girls, the title  “When we are


women,” was very good indeed; and one by
eighteen boys and fifteen girls, entitled, "How
to build up a new Territory,” was also excel-
lent, and a good spirit prevailed.
	President of Primary, Sister Porter, and sis-
ter Randall were present from Centreville, also
Sister Howard and Counselors from the Hot 
Springs—Primary Assistants.  All spoke very
encouragingly to the little ones; also Sister 
Holt, President of the Young Ladies’ of East
Bountiful, talked to the children very kindly.
At the close of the meeting the children were
made glad with oranges and candy.  All went
away with smiling faces.
	At Christmas we had a good time.  We had
two trees with quite a lot of nice and useful
presents upon them.  We had recitations,songs
and solos; our programme was short, but good.
After the children had received their presents
from the tree Brother Thurgood’s store keeper
brought over to each child a sack of candy;
one hundred and sixty present, also Brother
Anson V. Call, from the co-op, brought the
children—each of the large boys very nice
whistles, the small boys a smaller kind of
whistle and some candy.  To each of the large
girls was given a very nice breastpin, to the
smaller ones a string of beads. These, were 
given on New Year’s day, and were much ap-
preciated by the children.
	We feel to say God bless the children of
Zion, for we see and know there are noble
spirits among the children of the Latter-day
Saints, and we trust our labors will not be in
vain and we feel assured they will not, for 
there will be a mighty host rise up among
them that will stand true to the cause of the
Most High.
	ANN DUSTIN, President,
	SARAH L. DAVIS, Secretay.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A lady in Boston has submitted to the mayor
the plan of a novel charity, toward starting
which she proposes to contribute $50,000. It
is to create a fund, the income of which shall
be used annually for the care of the teeth of
children in the Primary schools whose parents
are unable to pay dentists' bills.—Ex.
	Mrs. Robert E. Lee was the only child of
George Washington Parke Curtis, who was
the only son and heir of Martha Washington.
It was from George and Martha Washington
that Curtis obtained Arlington, which at the
opening of the war was one of the finest pieces
of country property in the South. It is de-
scribed as "the ideal Southern homestead."—
Ex.
	The Dowager Lady Airlie was returned at
the head of the poll, recently, as a member of
the Lintrathen School Board. This is, I be-
lieve, the first instance of a lady of rank
having aspired to such a position. It affords,
however, an example which a good many other
dowagers, who are not as a rule overburdened
with work, might follow with great advantage.
—Ex.

	The exhibition of Decorative Art work at
Young Bro's on Main St., which commenced
on May 12th, and has been continued since up
to the present, is something wonderful in the
way of ornamentation, and requiring less na-
tural ingenuity; it would seem,than embroidery
done by hand. Everything, large or small,
can be executed on the Domestic machine, on
satin, silk, plush, felt, canvas, etc, with
chenile, arrasene, crewels, embroidery silk,
tinsel, applique, mosaic and etching. Crowds
of people were attracted every day to see the
handsome and elaborate display of embroidered
goods, and to watch those who were engaged
in running the machines, doing all sorts of
fancy ornamental work of different varieties
and patterns with the people looking over in
wonder and amazement. Surely this is some-
thing under the sun.


