GUIDE LESSONS 633
must be thought of as a manner of living rather than as a certain income, for a certain number. The "standard of living" as defined by Dr. Edward T. Devine, is made up of "those things which many men in common hold to be clearly essential to them. The standard of living embraces all those things which we want, and want enough to secure them; which have a vital importance for us; for which we are willing to make sacrifices."
While an individual may not attain all the things that are in his standard of living, if he aspires to gain these things, is willing to struggle and sacrifice for them, they must be considered a part of his standard. Each individual has his own individual standard. A family, too, has its standard, which is a combination of the standards of its members and includes those things which most of them hold to be essential. Each community has a standard, which is determined by what the majority of individuals consider important for the common good and is expressed in health regulations, lighting, law enforcement, educational opportunities, recreation facilities, etc.
While keeping in mind that the standard of living to the sociologist is a very personal and varying term, it may be well at this point to consider a general classification of economic planes of living. In his new book, The Standard of Living, Mr. N. H. Comish states that in practically every nation in the world there are four general planes of living. The first is the group whose income can merely keep body and soul together. The second is what is termed as the minimum of subsistence standard, providing for physical wants such as food, shelter, and clothing, but allowing little for the needs of men as social creatures. The third classification is the health and comfort standard, which provides for the material wants of man and also some comforts, insurance that takes care of the major misfortunes of life and a degree of education and amusement. The fourth group is described as the standard of luxury, providing for an abundance of literature, art, travel, and the like.
To discuss at this point the theories of economists to bring about a more equal distribution of wealth would not be profitable. What should be noted is the effect that a particular economic plane or status will have on the experiences and development of the individual. The health habits, the education, the vocational training, the recreation, the associations, etc., will be of different types in these various economic planes.
While it is obvious that the kind of experiences through which an individual will pass is determined by his economic


status, it is not so well defined which plane of living produces the most desirable kind of people. History is replete with instances of men and women, born in an environment of poverty, rising to great heights in various fields of endeavor. Obstacles often spur youth on to more determined effort, with resulting progression. A need to struggle, to travel the rough road, may give an individual an understanding of the values of life, and this understanding may direct him to serious accomplishment.
But there is a point on the economic scale, below which no one would deliberately place an individual. Below a certain point there is a poverty that is a handicap. It cannot be seriously argued that individuals in the first two classifications are not hampered in their development. Where a family income is not adequate to provide necessary food, there will be undernourished and unhealthy children. If there is a lack of clothing and shelter, and the members are subject to exposure and cold, the health and well-being of the members will again be endangered. If, because of financial stress, the schooling of children is frequently interrupted and discontinued at an early age, they will have a distinct disadvantage. If, because of lack of time, clothing, and means, there is no opportunity for recreation and social life discouragement will naturally follow. Economic stress can reach a point where it causes church connections to be broken, and the family loses the spiritual support of which it obviously has a great need. There is a poverty which destroys its poor; a poverty which leaves in its wake a multitude of social ills and evils: disease, death, exploitation, discouragement, delinquency.
Some of the general plans and programs advanced for the solution of poverty and its related problems will be the subject of the next lesson.
Reference: Dr. Edward T. Devine, Normal Life, Chapter 5, Maturity—Home, pages 128-140.
Note: "Normal Life," by Edward T. Devine, may be obtained at the Deseret News Book Store for $1.50 per copy.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Give an example of a family which could not provide the same things in two succeeding years on the same income.
2. Give an example of a family's standard becoming higher the second year on the same income.
3. According to Dr. Devine's definition, how might a college education be included in an individual's standard, even though he never attends college?
4. Name the four general classifications of the planes of living.
GUIDE LESSONS 635
5. Point out specific disadvantages (such as a lack of glasses for a child with impaired vision) imposed on children in the first two classes in their health, educational, vocational, and spiritual development.
Teachers' Topic for February THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME Divine Answer to Prayer
"What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them."—Mark 11:24.
"If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place, and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you."—Matt. 17:20.
Relate how through prayer and faith great men have accomplished great things. Abraham, Washington, Lincoln, latter-day prophets.
The observance of the law is the greatest solvent of public ills. Men speak of natural rights, but I challenge any one to show where in nature any rights ever existed or were recognized until there was established for their declaration and protection a duly promulgated body of corresponding laws. The march of civilization has been ever under the protecting aegis of the law. It is the strong defence of the weak, the ever-present refuge of innocence, a mighty fortress of the righteous. One with the law is a majority. While the law is observed the progress of civilization will continue. When such observance ceases chaos and the ancient night of despotism will come again. Liberty goes unsupported or relies in its entirety on the maintenance of order and the execution of the law.—Calvin Coolidge, President.
RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOKS
The General Board is pleased to announce that the second edition of the Relief Society Song Book is just off the press and ready for sale. Standing orders will be promptly filled.
All orders should be addressed to Relief Society Headquarters, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Price—75c each, postpaid; $9.00 per dozen.
Thy Gift Alberta Huish
Thy gift to me, great Prince of Bethlehem? I cannot know the mercies infinite That thy great sacrifice has given me; Yet power to love, to pity and to see, I know are gifts from thee.
Remembering thy cup of bitter dregs, My trembling grasp is strengthened, and I quaff More bravely and more readily, my share, From my life's cup, though filled with pain and care. This is thy gift to me.
I hear the cry from out Gethsemane: "A debt is paid;" the price was thy life's blood Which makes men gods potential, gives them breath, And power to see beyond the wall of death. These are thy gifts to me.
EASY Washer Washes by Air Pressure and Suction
Robertson 'EASY' Washing Machine Co. 72 So. Main St. Salt Lake, Utah
Washes Clothes without injury
Choose the service which will meet your needs—Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished.
LAUNDRY Distinctive Work
Office 319 Main St. Telephone Hyland 190
Christmas Hints from the Christmas Store
Stationery..................$50 to $18.00 Book Ends................ 7.00 to 15.00 Candlesticks............. 20 to 2.25 Keytainers............... 30 to 6.75 Incense Burners....... 2.00 to 5.75 Desk Sets................. 10.00 to 30.00 Manicuring Sets...... 3.50 to 18.00 Compact Sets........... 1.50 to 3.75
And a gay and distinctive line of both counter Christmas Cards and designs for personal engraving
THE HOUSE OF PEMBROKE Mail Orders Filled
24 EAST 3rd SOUTH Salt Lake City
June 29, 1923
The management of the Relief Society Magazine urges an early settlement of all outstanding accounts.
PHOENIX SILK STOCKINGS "The Silk stocking that stands wear."
No. 368 Ladies' Full Fashioned. Colors as above No. 365 Ladies' Black, white, brown, grey, otter.........................$1.25 No. 708 Ladies' Colors as above................................................$1.
 SEND US YOUR MAIL ORDERS.
OGDEN-UTAH KNITTING STORE 2357 Washington Ave. Ogden, Utah Mention Relief Society Magazine
CENTURY PRINTING Co. 231-35 Edison Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Catalogs, Color-Work, Programs, Publications, Commercial forms. Service is Our Motto. Our Phone, Was. 1801.
Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY
A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively
Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair $2.00 Box of Three Pairs 5.75
Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pair $4.25
Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Ribbon Top, the Comfort Stocking All Colors Per Pair $1.25 Box of Three Pairs $3.60
Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair...... $1.05 Box of Three Pairs $3.00
MAIL ORDERS PREPAID
ALL UP-TO-DATE LIBRARIES Both Public and Private contain bound volumes of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Following are the bound volumes we have on hand:
5 vols. 1915, leather bound..$3.50 1 vol. 1919, cloth bound 2.75 2 vols.