The Magazine and the Fall Work With this issue of the magazine we begin the lessons for the fall months. It is customary in some stakes to carry on a fall campaign for the magazine. This appears advisable because new members are constantly coming in who have not had part in the ~ 
 organization before, and do not realize the place the magazine fills in the work. The Relief Society Magazine is inexpensive, costing a trifle more than eight cents an issue when taken for the year. In other words, the subscriber receives twelve magazines for one dollar. All of the lesson work appears in its columns, as well as the teachers' topic, consequently we feel that workers should have access to it. It is indispensible to officers. An officer is scarcely equipped unless she has the organ of the Society constantly at her disposal. Many iof the stakes this year have maintained their usual number of magazines and a few have exceeded it. Richmond, California, has an organization of twenty-four members which subscribes for twenty-nine magazines. A few of the stakes have fallen below their usual magazine subscription. In such cases we advise that an effort be made to bring up the number to what would be regarded as normal. Not long since a lady stepped into the office who until recently had been associated with the Primary. She said she asked two members of the organization in her ward to answer questions on the lesson for the following week and they replied that they would be glad to do so, but they had no magazine containing the questions. At this the officer came into the office and bought magazines for two months for these members. Eighty cents more on the twenty cents this officer spent would have supplied those members with the magazine for a year. It was not fair to the teacher to have her give her time and talent, and furnish her class with text books also. We have been wondering every since if these members could not have managed to subscribe for the magazine if their hearts had been set upon it.