The Bride in a Summer Setting Hand-sewed Gowns and Hand-decorated Wedding Cake Submitted by Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society The Bride's Cake White Cake Made and decorated by Elsie Wright 1 c. Butter (or white shortening) 1 1/3 c. Sugar 3 c. Cake flour, sifted 14 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Soda lc. Buttermilk 1 tsp. Almond extract 14 tsp. Lemon extract 6 egg whites 1 tsp. Cream of tartar 2/3 c. Sugar Cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Sift flour, soda, and salt together. Add alternately with buttermilk and flavoring. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites to which 2/3 cup of sugar and 1 teaspoon cream of tartar have been added. Bake at 375 degrees for thirty to forty minutes until lightly browned. This makes a cake large enough to serve 20 people. If a larger cake is desired, it is best to make the recipe again rather than doubling or tripling the batch. Buttercream Frosting Beat until very creamy (electric beater may be used) 114 c. White shortening 14, tsp. Salt almond extract to taste 9 c. Confectioner's sugar about 14 c. Water For decorating, the frosting must be firmer, so the amount of water should vary with the purpose of the icing. PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT BRINK ARRANGEMENT BY LANOR ROWE a rs _. _ a 5 " a z: - — " +° ' Feather Howers RaNae Gledhill TRANSPARENCIES BY L. PAUL ROBERTS R Feather artistry has been handed down from generation to generation. Our parents and grandparents used feathers on hats, costumes, and fans. Their homes were decorated with vases containing ostrich, pheasant, peacock, and other fancy feathers. Feathers are even more glamorous today than ever before. Turkey, chicken, duck, goose, vulture, ostrich, and peacock are all used and are dyed every color imaginable. Feathers take dye beautifully and it is possible to get brilliant colors. Any amateur can create an exotic feather flower arrangement to fit into a certain decor in her home. To clean the feathers shake the dust off, tie in bunches, and wash them in detergent or soap and water, rinse, and hang up to dry. It is possible to dye your own feathers. They must first be prepared by washing to remove any natural grease or oil. It is a good idea to add vinegar to the dye and to test a few feathers first to be sure the right shade is obtained. Tie feathers in bunches and hang up to dry. Feathers are inexpensive to buy already cleaned, however, and unbelievably beautiful] colors are available. If feathers become crushed, just steam them over an open kettle, and they will be restored to their natural appearance. This also makes them flexible and easy to work with. To curl a feather, just run a knife or scissors along the back edge of the quill and curl as you would a ribbon. Repeat if necessary. Materials needed for making feather flower arrangements are floral wire (fine gauge and heavy gauge), floral tape, and glue. Other materials which can be used are styrofoam balls, flower centers, jewelry discs, and cloth or plastic leaves, if desired. Peonies and roses are made of goose floral feathers and glued into a styrofoam ball. Carnations are made of turkey base feathers wired together and trimmed with pinking shears. Tulips and poppies use the turkey feathers and are curled and then glued to a small disc. Poinsettias and fantasy flowers are created from the long slender hackle feathers. Sweet sultans and anemones are made from fluffy feathers. Very exotic flowers can be made from the ostrich feather simply by stripping all the feathers from the spine and tying together with a fine wire. Lilies are made from duck feathers with the spine removed. Tall, graceful delphiniums are especially lovely in arrangements. They are easily made by taping short floral feathers to a long stem wire. Vulture and peacock feathers are long and graceful and have an attractive curve. Peacock feathers come in either pointed side feathers or rounded eye feathers. These are mainly used to complement other flowers in arrangements. It is possible to create many other lovely flowers—just use your imagination and a few feathers! A Car Seat Cover For a Vacationing Family Celia Bartholomew President, Ninth Ward Relief Society Rose Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah 444 7 " & mT Su. —,: | OISPLAYED AT THE WORK MEETING EXHIBIT RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE. 1964 TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL Hemember the Children The seat cover is made of denim, using about one and one-half yards of material, which includes the pockets. From top to bottom the cover pictured above measures 1 yard and 4 inches, allowing 3 inches for the overlap at the top, but measurements can be adjusted to fit any type of car. Pockets may be made in any size desired. The pockets illustrated in the picture were attached with a zig-zag stitch and were made to hold a road map (for the driver), wash cloths and towels for the chiidren, a comb, a coloring book, The Children's Friend, a disappearing easel, a piece of heavy cardboard for the children to use as a table while writing or drawing, and other items. The compartments in the center hold pencils and crayons. A length of elastic, about 144 inches wide, is attached at the top to hold the covering over the back of the front seat, and another piece of elastic is pulled around the bottom of the seat so that the cover can be held securely in place. A Place tor Balls and Bats Made by Mary Aagard, Fountain Green Ward, Moroni Stake, Utah > For the "son in the house," a wall hamper for balls and bats attached to a clothes closet door, or on the wall of his den, will make him a champion of orderliness. The hamper must be made of strong cloth, such as denim, ticking, or sailcloth, and can be cut in the length and width most convenient, and in accordance with the number of pockets needed. Appliqued replicas of bats, balls, cap, and gloves make unmistakable labels, and are an invitation and a reminder for putting the boy's favorite equipment in the right place. An overlapping piece of material fits over a clothes hanger, or a shaped piece of wood or wire which can be attached to the wall or to a door. TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL ' — Q So eS 2 BACK BASEBALL CADDY $ Materials needed: 2 yds. + 6" Ball Cap Pocket: 14" wide x 8" m material, felt or fabric scraps long pleated to 1014". U and bias tape. Mitt Pocket: 14" wide x 104%" YY Size of Caddy: 18" x 34". Long pleated to 104%" wide. Leave opening for ball suit or Bat Pocket: 6" x 24" pleated to = Pockets bound in single fold soiled clothing. 2". Bias tape. Fold piece of paper and make Ball Pockets: 61" wide x 8" Outside edges bound in doubie bat pattern 13" long x 234" long pleated to 414". Fold bias tape. Wide at top. DISPLAYED AT THE WORK MEETING EX HIBIT. RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE. 1964 Boxes,