[Vol10 | May 1923 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Love's Alchemy Coral J. Black]

Love's Alchemy Coral J. Black A slim, brown hand cautiously parted the net-work of vines, which served as a screen for her neighbor's veranda, and for a long moment two blue eyes, brimming with curiosity and excitement, peered through. There was nothing in sight within the cool, shaded expanse except a comfortable, little sewing chair and a quaint work basket filled to overflowing with fine, white goods. But wait, the woman sighed softly, she had guessed it before; now she was certain, for one tiny sleeve hung coaxingly over the edge of the wicker basket. As the side door, at the far end of the veranda, swung open she quickly withdrew, but not swiftly or silently enough to prevent a startled gasp from the pretty little brown-eyed matron, her neighbor, which told her that her questionable act had been detected. With trembling haste, Mrs. Lawlor sought the shelter of her own abode, where she gave full vent to the shame and dismay which swept over her. "Why, oh, why, did I ever do such a thing?" she questioned herself over and over, "what explanation or apology can I possibly offer?" As she went mechanically about the preparation of luncheon, she became more calm and decided that the only possible course open to her was to go to Mrs. Cresswell, make a full confession, and ask pardon for prying. Mrs. Cresswell, the neighbor, was laboring under similar emotions, as she, too, nervously prepared the noonday meal. Surprise, anger and indignation quickly succeeded one another as she mentally recalled the pale face and bright eyes, looking through the parted vines, into her private and sacred domain. The two homes were built, as so many city homes are, so closely together that it seemed almost a waste. Of building material to have separated them at all. _The few inches of soil between them had been utilized by the Cresswells and a luxuriant growth of vines made an artistic screen and gave to the veranda' s Spacious depth, a privacy otherwise impossible. Mrs. Cresswell had tried, vainly, to make Adare with her new neighbor Mrs. Lawlor. Her advances had always been met with perfect civility, and still she had known they were not exactly wel- LOVE'S ALCHEMY. 233 comed. Wearied at length, she had contented herself wiht a pleasant greeting, nothing more. Mrs. Lawlor had been very nice to Mrs, Cresswell's two small children, frequently calling them to the low-trimmed hedge, to chat pleasantly with them for a few moments, or make them gifts of toys or sweets. And still she had not once asked them to come farther than their own side of the dividing hedge. These peculiar little utterances had been noted by Mrs. Cresswell at the time, but she had placed no particular stress upon them. Today, however, they recurred to her with startling significance, and left her puzzled, indeed. When she had unburdened herself of the strange occurrence to her husband, tall, blond and magnanimous, he patted her hand reassuringly and advised, "Don't judge too hastily, Margie, for we never know another's motives or temptations. If there is any plausible excuse for what she did be sure she will make it known. If not, well, there is no particular harm done, and you can be on your ouard i in the future." "T know you are right about that, Will, and I am glad I refrained from uttering the words that burned on my lips, when 1 saw her looking so intently at my work." Her husband's arms went around her and his lips Pressed her smooth, white forehead. "T am glad, too, Margie, very glad. Do you know, dear," he continued drawing: his wife down beside him on the couch, "I have had a feeling for a long time that our little neighbor is not happy? I never before saw such a hurt look in human eyes. I have tried to fathom it but have not been able to satisfy myself. Lawlor is a successful business man, clean-cut and fine, and he seems devoted to his wife. Have you ever noticed it?" "Yes, I have," admitted his wife, "and the thought has come to me a number of times, that she must have experienced a great loss or a deep tragedy at some time in her life. As you say her husband seems devoted. I'll take your advice, Will, and just ignore today's little incident. Perhaps time will tell me why she did so strange a thing." { The warm summer afternoon hung dreamily over the earth. Nature was taking her siesta, but Mrs. Cresswell stitched busily on the wee garment: so lately the object of her neighbor's comprehending gaze. Her thoughts kept pace with the shining needle as it flew swiftly in and out among the snowy folds of cloth. She could but wonder why Mrs. Lawlor had been guilty of such a breach of good breeding. Could she explain it, would she? What circumstance could possibly justify her action? Why had she so persistently refused the friendship offered her only to take by stealth that which had been withheld? 
 Her musings were interrupted by the opening and closing of her neighbor's street door, and a flush of indignation and resentment dyed her cheeks as she noted the trim form pass down the rose-bordered walk and a moment later turn in at her own gate. The words of her husband recurred to her with quiet insistence, "Do not judge too hastily, Margie, perhaps she will explain." She hastily shook the tiny garment into a non-committal heap in her lap and forced a pleasant expression. How glad she was, when a moment later their eyes met and she noticed the chagrin and embarrassment on the other woman's countenance. Mrs. Lawlor began painfully, "I—I, well, it seemed that I," but words failed her. Mrs. Cresswell rose and laid her hand gently on the other's arm, "Come into the shade, dear child, don't be distressed. Sit here until you are calmer and then tell me what you wish." "Oh, I couldn't sit down until I've offered what explanation I can," she faltered, "not until I know I'm forgiven for. Prying." Then, after a few moments of embarrassed silence, she added, in a voice scarcely more than a whisper, "It was my great love for babies made me do it. You see I've always wanted to make little clothes for a wee baby, but have been denied the privilege. I knew—that is, I surmised you were sewing, and I—I just wanted to see them, the little clothes, you know." She stopped with a half sob, and all the sympathy a mother feels for a childless woman, welled up in Mrs. Cresswell's heart. Both arms went impulsively about_the girlish form. "My dear girl, why didn't you come over and ask to see them?" queried the older woman, her eyes bright with love and understanding. = "Well, you see, I disliked to come over when I could not ask you to return the call, and I—that is my husband—oh, Mrs, Cresswell, will you understand when I tell you that my husband despises children and cannot endure them around? How could I explain to you or ask you to leave your tots at home," Mrs. Cresswell looked both shocked and relieved. So this was the explanation; M'r. Lawlor disliked children to such a degree that neighbors, who had little folks to accompany them, were unwelcome in his home. How glad she was that the little woman had cleared herself, and she felt a. Strange bond of sympathy and understanding tighten between them at this confession. "Never mind, dear, he will feel differently if he is ever blessed with a child of his own." But Mrs. Lawlor shook her head despairingly, "He will not even consider such a possibility. I will never have that greatest of all gifts, and I do love little children so much. I pine for my own little brothers and sisters, but he will not endure them on the LOVE'S ALCHEMY 235 place. It is the reason we came here, to be away from my folks." Her tears flowed afresh and Mrs. Cresswell strove to comfort her. "But, my dear woman, you have rights in this matter. 'Tis not for him to say whether you shall or shall not wear the glory — of motherhood. You must assert yourself, you have the strength of character to issue an ultimatum to him." "T have thought of that many times," sadly agreed Mrs, Lawlor, "but the fear of estranging him has checked me. I do love my husband devotedly, Mrs. Cresswell, and still had I known this side of his nature I would never have married him, never! There was a time," she continued hurriedly, "when the name of 'wife' seemed to encompass all that was desirable in life, but now I know there is a dearer term and that is 'mother.' " - "Dear heart," comforted the older woman, "these matters are all in His hands and we know 'He doeth all things well.' I feel impressed that the desires of your heart will be gratified some day. Come now and see the little wardrobe." For an hour or more the two women bent above the lace-trimmed bassinet and talked of—of, well, you mothers all know of what they talked—and when the girl-wife departed she carried with her a generous square of French flannel, a spool of white embroidery silk and an unusual sparkle in her blue eyes. What joy, this surreptitious service for the new baby, gave to her clamoring heart. The friendship between the two women grew and flourished. To Mrs. Cresswell it was a source of constant revelation and delight. Another flower in her Love Garden, something for her to prize and cherish. To Mrs. Lawlor, it was a life-saving oasis in the desert of repressed motherhood. At last came a day when Mrs Lawlor bent above the tiny bassinet and poured out the pent up love of her heart into the pink ears of her friend's little daughter. When, at last, she felt compelled to cover the wee thing and take her departure, she bent for a moment above her friend and whispered to her. Mrs. Cresswell reached out and pressed her hand affectionately, "You remember, I told you 'He doeth all things well'; be content now in this supreme happiness, and rest assured that all else will be well also.". The months sped swiftly by. Mrs. Cresswell smiled to herself many times each day as she listened to her young neighbor caroling like a bird, as if she had not a care in the world. How often her thoughts reverted to that morning, so long ago, when Mrs. Lawlor had spied upon her, as she had termed it at that time. How thankful she was that her husband's big, generous nature had prevented her making some awful blunder toward the 
 little girl-woman next door. Many times she thanked God devoutly that he had brought them together. Many hours the friends spent sewing, embroidering and planning for the coming spring. There was only one cloud to mar the beautiful prospect, only one, yet at times it seemed to shut out the sunlight entirely and to envelop the little mother-to-be like a shroud. Her husband's tenderness and devotion to her could not bear the slightest reference to coming events. One afternoon in early autumn, Mrs. Cresswell had occasion to visit the Lawlor jewelry store. Mr. Lawlor himself came forward to greet her and after she had explained her errand they chatted on various subjects for several moments. Mrs. Cresswell glanced at the big clock and turned hurriedly to the door, "My goodness, my baby! I must hurry, I had no idea it was so late as that!" "Tt is really surprising," said Mr. Lawlor, while an ugly smile hovered about his lips, "how foolish, even ridiculous, sensible women can be over babies. Let them cry, I say, the more the better; it's good for them." Mrs. Cresswell turned toward him, tears in her eyes, tenderness and pleading in her voice, "You little know the love and anxiety that fill the heart, Mr. Lawlor, when it is one's own child." There was no mistaking her inference, and the man flushed with anger, then paled to a pasty white, as he replied in a low, tense voice, "No, Mrs. Cresswell, I do not, and I hope to God I never will!" For a moment the woman stood as if bereft of power to move or speak, as the terrible, blasphemous wish forced itself into her consciousness. Then she turned without a word and left the store. How she reached home or how she passed the hours until her hushand returned from his office. She hardly knew; but when he came and she had sobbed out her horror and indignation, on his calm and understanding bosom, she felt vastly better. Their sympathy 'for their young neighbor grew ten-fold after this encounter with her husband; and they exerted themselves in an effort to throw every possible ray of happiness or sunshine across her path. When at last the critical hour was past, and the little mother, pale, but radiantly happy, looked into Mrs. Cresswell's eyes, she murmured, "I can't tell how Bert feels, he seems so queer; but no matter, nothing he can say or. Do can rob me of this supreme happiness. Even though I should lose my babe in death, I have had him, I am a mother, he is mine—all mine!" She turned her eyes, swimming with love's holy light, upon the wee little creature sleeping so contentedly beside her. The months flew by, summer slipped past and chill November, LOVE'S ALCHEMY 237 accompanied by heavy rains, snow, and sharp stinging cold, swept over the valley. Sickness in divers forms, 'crept into the community, visiting every family. On a night, dark and bitterly cold, the Cresswells were awakened by a thundrous knocking on their door. Mr. Cresswell hastened to the front entrancé in answer to the startling summons, and there he encountered a strange sight. His fastidious neighbor, Bert Lawlor, stood shivering in his bathrobe, drenched with rain, hatless, coatless, his bare feet thrust hastily into a pair of carpet slippers. At sight of Mr. Cresswell, he began hurriedly, "It's your wife I want, Cresswell, not you." Then his voice raised to shrill staccato, as he noted Mrs. Cresswell peering over the bannister, "Oh, hurry, Mrs. Creswell, in heaven's name, hurry, our baby is dying with the croup!" Upon receiving an assurance that she would follow at once, he started home through the rain and sleet on a run, a ludicrous sight in spite of the gravity of the situation. 'Mrs. Cresswell hurried over and after applying a few simple remedies, had the baby sleeping peacefully again. It had not been a dangerous form of croup. Then she could not forbear the tender thrust, she turned to where the father stood, pale and anxious, "Why, Mr. Lawlor, I'm surprised at you, I thought you didn't care for this baby." "Mrs. Cresswell," the man replied soberly, "I thought so, too, before he came, but something within my being seemed to change that night. I had a feeling that—that—maybe you will think I'm foolish when I tell you—it was as if his tiny hand had hold of my heart and gently pressed it each time T looked at him. It's been growing all the time—that feeling, until now he has become so much a part of me that I believe I would die if he should. I have thought of what I said to you, that day in the store, a thousand times and how IJ have prayed for forgiveness, only God knows. I have always been sure he would punish me and I thought tonight the time had come. If God will forgive me that speech, we'll have a dozen and every one of them will be welcome, too, won't they, baby child?" and he gave his astonishéd wife a loving pinch on the cheek. Then he bent anxiously above the crib to make-sure the breathing of the precious tot within was easy and regular.