[Vol10 | May 1923 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Home | Title: Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart]

Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart FORETHOUGHT IN THE CARE OF CLOTHING There are three general ways in which the life of clothing and fabrics may be lengthened: (1) wise selection; (2) careful use; (3)renovation and repair. A few suggestions on the last may be helpful at this season when the heavier materials are to be laid aside and gayer colors used. Although a knowledge of the chemistry of colors and of fabrics is helpful, it is not necessary. There are a few general rules which will satisfactorily take care of anything except very rare cases. Any colored fabric should have the color set before washing. For all general purposes salt and vinegar gives good results. Allow one teaspoon of salt to one quart of water, dissolve and soak material in the solution at least one hour, rinse thoroughly to remove all salt. Vinegar is generally better for dark material; allow one-fourth cup of vinegar to one quart of water. Sugar of lead is hest for delicate colors such as green, blue, tan, or yellow; use cne teaspoon to one quart of water. All spots and stains may be removed more easily from washable material before laundering. A good general rule for stains of unknown origin is to rub lightly with a pad dipped in a very weak lukewarm soap solution to which has been added one teaspoon ammonia to one quart of water. Never use a strong soap on any fabric or rub it directly upon-the spot. Sponge delicate materials that ordinary washing may injure. Place a pad or blotting paper under the article to take up the surplus moisture. Ammonia in the water used for sponging helps to brighten the colors. Cornmeal and gasoline made into a paste makes a good cleanser for various kinds of material. It is not as apt to leave a ring around the spot cleaned as does gasoline alone. Benzine mixed with cornstarch is a good cleanser for white kid golves and whi'e shoes. Be careful in the use of benzine near a Fite. The odor of gasoline from small, cleaned articles, such as gloves, or anything that receives warmth from the body, can he removed by being aired thoroughly, then placing them upon a paper in a warm oven and allowing them to remain some time. (Oven must not be hot. A dry sponge is good to remove lint from clothing, especially the smoother kind, such as broadcloth. OF INTEREST TO WOMEN Zoe) Hair ribbons may be easily cleaned by shaking a few minutes in a solution of one teaspoon of baking soda to one quart of hot water. They should be rinsed in warm water, dryed between towels and pressed while damp. When washed in this way they are less apt to fade. Fabrics of all kinds should be thoroughly shaken, brushed and cleaned before storing. Woolens and furs or any material upon which moths feed, should have special attention. They should be allowed to hang in the air and sunshine several days to make sure all the dust and eggs are removed. Press well, as the heat kills the hidden moths or eggs, and wrap carefully. Cedar chests, moth balls, tar bags and other repellants may prevent the miller from getting into the clothes, but will not prevent the eggs from hatching. Newspapers made into bags are very good if they are carefully sealed; the moth does not like printers' ink. Camphor, whole cloves, or small bags of ground spices are good placed between the articles when packed in a box ora chest. Cold does not kill moths but they are inactive in a temperature below 50° Fah. Spots and stains should always be removed from clothing before storing as such places are more readily attacked by moths. Three things must be considered in removing stains; freshness of stain, nature of spot, and nature of fabric. A fresh stain is much easier to remove than an old one. A reagent will remove one kind of stain while it will set another. Some kinds of reagents will remove spots successfully from cotton or linen but will injure wool or silk. There are four general methods used in removing stains: (1) to launder the whole fabric if convenient; (2) sponging in clear, warm water or water to which ammonia has been added; (3) to use absorbent such as a paste of whiting or French chalk and alcohol, or cornmeal; (4) chemicals, as javelle water, oxalic acid, or potassium permanganate. Reagents that decolorize are chemicals, lemon juice, and alcohol, but they may be used successfully by neutralizing with ammonia or hydrogen peroxide. Oxalic acid in full strength destroys the fiber of the material; use one part acid to two parts boiling water, then neutralize with hydrogen peroxide. Use a medicine dropper or a glass rod to apply these reagents. SOME COMMON STAINS AND THEIR REMEDIES Ink: Ona carpet (a) absorb with a blotter, soft rag; (b) try salt, brush off and renew until removed. On dress fabrics (a) soak in new milk; (b) salt and lemon juice; (c) sweet milk; let stand till sour, rinse in tepid water and wash in suds; old or difficult stains, use oxalic acid. Grease: (a) warm water and soap for washable material; (b). 
 place a blotting paper on each 'side of the spot and apply a warm iron, or use other absorbents, as powdered magnesia, white talcum powder, cornmeal or salt; (c) a solvent, as gasoline, chloroform or naptha; (d) gasoline 'with French chalk or magnesia in the form of a paste, work from outside of the spot toward the center. 'Tron rust: (a) equal parts of cream of tartar and table salt, wet the stain and place mixture on thickly and put in sun; (b) wet spot with lemon juice and hold over 'spout of teakettle; (c) peel a few stalks of rhubarb and boil in enough water to cover, soak the stain fifteen or twenty minutes and wash as usual, tinse thoroughly. Mildew: (a) lemon juice and salt, put in sunshine; (b) solution of chloride of lime, one teaspoon of lime to one quart of water; (c) 'paste of salt, soap, lemon juice and starch; allow it to remain 24 hours. Tar: (a) soft grease or butter, remove with gasoline or hot suds; (b equal parts of ammonia and turpentine, wash in soap suds. F ruit: (a) place the spot over a bowl or pan and pour boiling water through; (b) use salt and boiling water; (c) lemon juice and sunlight; (d) obstinate stains by oxalic acid. 'Peach stains are more difficult. Spread glycerine on spot and allow it to dry before trying other methods. Chocolate and cocoa: (a) for delicate fabrics sponge in lukewarm 'water; (b) soft water and neutral soap; (c) for washable material, borax and cold water, then rinsé thoroughly with boiling water. Blood: (a) soak in tepid water, wash in warm suds; (b) soak in lukewarm solution of washing powder or lye; this cannot be used on colored goods; (c), hydrogen peroxide; (d) for heavy material use moistened starch, let stay until dry, brush: off and repeat until stain is removed. Grass stains: (a) rub lard on spot, 'wash in soap and water; (b) 'dip in clear ammonia, rinse well in water; (c) wet with kerosene and wash with water as usual; (d) use wood alcohol. Paint: (a) equal amounts of household ammonia and turpentine, saturate the spot three or four times, wash in soapy water, rinse well in clear water; (b) washing soda, three table spoons to each gallon of water, boil the stains in this solution. Since flour and sugar sacks have grown to be so popular for various purposes, each one should be utilized. The coloring and lettering on them are sometimes difficult to remove, but will usually yield by rubbing the spots thoroughly with lard and allowing to stand a week or more before washing and boiling. The more obstinate colors may be treated with oxalic acid or potassium permanganate and neutralized with hydrogen Agupestels or ammonia,.