[Vol10 | May 1923 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: What Is a Vitamine Fred W. Merrill]

What is a VitaminePr Fred W.. Merrill There are many people who would like to know. What is it? Where does it come from? What does it do? Can it be manufactured? All these and a number of other queries are being worked on by the best scientific brains of this and other countries. That it is necessary for human beings has been well established. That it is found in certain foods has also been agreed. That its absence leads to the development of scurvy, rickets, beriberi, blindness and paralysis is also recognized. But there are a number of things yet to be learned, about which there is variance of opinion. There are four vitamines. They are designated as Fat Soluble "A," Water Soluble "B," and Water Soluble "C," and anti-Rachitic Fat Soluble "A" occurs most largely in milk, butter, egg yolk, codliver oil, liver and kidney fat, spinach, young carrots, sweet potatoes, yellow corn and some other foods. Scientific men are searching through the foods used by man to locate all the sources of this vital element. Milk and butter are regarded as the most important source. Just how much there is in a quart of milk or a pound of butter is uncertain. It is now generally believed that the amount of Fat Soluble "A" is dependent upon the feed of the cow, and further upon the manner in which the butter is handled in the process of manufacture. This leads us to recognize that there is a difference in milk not heretofore taken into account. Whale oil is fairly well supplied with Vitamine ".\," though not so much so as is butter, but who wants to eat whale oil? Pig's liver oil and liver and kidney tissue, and probably other glandular organs furnish a fair amount. Most people, however, confine their eating of pork to the muscles of the pig and not to the glandular organs, so that although these organs may be well supplied with vitamine they do not contribute much to the food of the average family. Dried spinach, alfalfa, clover, timothy and tomatoes promote growth of rats just as satisfactorily as a small quantity of butterfat. We eat both spinach and tomatoes but do we eat enough of these to get as much Vitamine "A" as our bodies require? The cow eats alfalfa, clover, timothy and corn and she isa heavy eater, hence she gets a large amount, much of which goes to the milk which she manufactures for our use. Cabbage and potatoes also contain small quantities. Carrots and sweet potatoes and yellow WHAT IS A VITAMINE? 245 corn contain amounts sufficient to maintain satisfactory growth in rats and guinea pigs. But here is the point. We don't eat carrots, sweet potatoes and yellow corn every day, and we must get vitamines every day, which leads us to conclude that our best and most reliable source of supply is in the milk, butter, cheese and ice cream which are generally available every day of the year at prices within the reach of every one. Water Soluble Vitamine "B" is most abundant in the germ or embryo of grain and seeds. It seems to be associated more with the husks and germs, which are usually extracted and fed to live stock and hence our ordinary white flour, corn meal and rice have had this element removed in the process of refinement. Water Soluble "C'" is found mostly in fresh fruits and vegetables, particularly cabbage and orange juice. It is found in orange juice in most available form. Milk is not known to be an abundant source-of this element, and if babies are confined to an exclusive milk diet, especially milk that has been kept or heated, scurvy occasionally develops. This is the reason why orange juice is so universally recommended by doctors and nurses as a food suitable for young infants, to supplement their milk diet. ——$—— Items About Women; A separate college for women students at the University of Pennsylvania is to be erected shortly. There are thirty girls now attending Pennsylvania State College, who are "working their way through." The Federation of campus Women of the University of Chicago recently fixed a $30 limit on the cost of college clothes. Russian boots and galoshes are tabooed.—New York Sun. From newsgirl, salesgirl, factory worker and stenographer, Mrs. Mary Ranty Schwab has risen to assistant city attorneyship in San Francisco, being the first woman to receive stich an honor in that state. Martha Hale, a freshman at the University of California, has no arms, but with her feet does practically everything that a physically normal girl of 20 does with her hands, including cooking, writing, sewing, and dressing herself.