[Vol10 | May 1923 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Mother Claire Stewart Boyer]

mother, too; God bless her. *""Mother'' Claire Stewart Boyer Unknown creator of our lives art thou, When on the brink of this our world-to-be, With heritage thou only couldst endow, Thy children start their furtive destiny. Then slowly as the dark slips from our eyes, We see thee watching o'er us tenderly, And every care bestow Athena-wise, And so we learn to watch and call for thee. And as the days make years, our thoughts take wing, On words that we have mastered with thy aid, We turn to thee with all our questioning, And when we pray, our prayer for thee is made. But youth is always headstrong in the fight, Self-confident we need no counselor, Believing that we know the test of right, We shun thy truths and warnings more and more. But finally that day of days arrives, When all thy teaching of life's mastery, Comes back with double meaning to our lives, And we in rev'rence bless the name of thee; We welcome every tried and tested way, We ask for thy good judgment here and there, Our children 'round thee in the dooryard play, And stroke thy well-loved silken, silver hair. MOTHER 221 And then our problems mount and mount again, And half forgetting thy own golden years, Thou strivest to find balm for all our pain, In thy religious calm of prayer and tears; We question then if thou dost understand, This age of work and fight and give and take, So different from thy simple pilgrim band, That lived so simply for religion's sake. Perhaps belike we comprehend the less, That thy great mission here is almost done, Until upon thy cheeks our children press The seal of love and call thee "dearest one:" For they have also learned to watch and call, And ask thy aid and comfort just as we, So long ago placed in thy hands our all, And asked for nothing but that thou might'st see. Thus in our joy thou gainest happiness, And in our sorrow greatest comfort givest, And so in gratitude thy name we bless, And thank the God of Life that thou still livest. But even as ali things must seeming pass, So thou must walk an unknown way before, But thou hast left the gift of Peace, and last— A love eternal, could we ask for more? Again unknown and yet the greatest force, That ever on the face of earth has trod: We pray that in thy footsteps in thy course, We too may follow to the gates of God.