the General Board had a two-fold object; first, that of honoring the leaders of the Relief Society, past and present; and second, that of observing in fitting manner the eighty-first anniversary of. The organization of the Association. The committee, consisting of Annie Wells Cannon, Jeannette A. Hyde, and Cora L. Bennion, is to be congratulated on the very carefully planned program, and the manner in which the details were carried out. The entertainment was held Wednesday afternoon, March 21, in the Assembly Room of the Bishop's building. The special guests of the occasion were all former members of the General Board of the Relief Society, the General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A., the General Board of the Primary, and the Relief Society presidents of stake and ward associations in Salt Lake county. The program was introduced with a prologue, presented by Rosannah C. Irvine. The addresses and musical numbers were accompanied by stereopticon views. A portrait of the Prophet Joseph Smith was thrown on the screen, during which time the choir and congregation, led by Lizzie Thomas Edward. Sang, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah." The opening prayer was offered by Zina Y. Card. © Sketches of the six General Presidents were then presented... Ethel R. Smith presented the first sketch—Emma Hale Smith. During her presentation, a photograph of Emma Smith, the first president of the Relief Society, the Masonic Temple at Nauvoo, where the first Relief Society was organized, the names of the eighteen charter members of the organization, and the city of Nauvoo, were thrown upon the screen. ~. The second address, having for its theme Eliza R: Snow, was made by Amy W. Evans. During the time that the portrait of Eliza R. Snow was upon the screen, Lizzie Thomas Edward sang, "O my Father.". Other pictures viewed while the sketch of Sister Snow was being read were, "Crossing the Plains," "Buffalos on the Plains," and "Council Bluffs Ferry." The sketch of the third president, Zina D. H. Young, 242 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was given by Julia A. Child. During the reading of her paper, pioneer midwives, pioneer physicians, the old Deseret Hospital, silk curtains exhibited at the St. Louis exposition in 1904, and Zina D. H. Young, were the pictures featured. Barbara H. Richards presented the fourth president, Bathsheba W. Smith. The Bishop's building,