[Vol10 | May 1923 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Her Daughter's Friend Elsie Talmage Brandley]

Her Daughter's Friend Elsie Talmage Brandley Mrs. Hale took the letters from the postman and hungrily ran her eyes over the postmark of each of the three envelopes he had given her. A disappointed note was in her voice as she went into the living-room where Judith, ensconced in the great arm chair by the window, was too deeply absorbed in a magazine to know that the mail had come, and complained, "It's a right-down shame for Jack to treat me so! Here it is a week after the wire which gave us the exhaustive information that a boy arrived today—all doing well, and he hasn't written a line to tell me how Ruth got along, or if the baby looks like a Hale or Ruth's family, or any of the other hundred and ten details that a grandmotherfor-the-first-time yearns to know! All the man brought was an ad from some cold-cream company, a bill for your tonsillitis and a letter for you from California." "Don't fret, Granny," the unperturbed daughter of seventeen advised her. "You'll likely be hearing all the news by tomorrow; that is, if you haven't grown desperate and started off in quest of it without waiting for the letter." She was slitting the top of her own envelope with a hairpin as she spoke and a quick exclamation of delight broke from her as she glanced at the signature and began to skim hurriedly down the first page. "Oh, mother, just listen to this! It's from Marie Meridith and she is on her way back to Washington to school and is going to stop off and spend an afternoon and night with me. She will arrive on the nineteenth—let me see—today is—" "Tomorrow is the nineteenth, Judith," her mother interrupted. "Is Marie the girl who was Norma Alden's bridesmaid last spring?" "Yes, and you know I took such a fancy to her that I begged her to try to manage a little visit with me this fall—never dreaming that she would even remember me through the summer. Her father is fabulously wealthy and Marie frightfully popular, so we can feel it an honor to think she would even look at us!" "I'm sure of it.' Mrs. Hale's words were quaenly spoken but there was a shadow of sarcasm in them. "Oh, of course, that isn't all I like about Tor, She is refined and cultured and so—so—natural that she makes everyone feel comfortable. The day of Norma's wedding when we other bridesmaids went into her room in such modest little dresses she HER DAUGHTER'S FRIEND 227 looked at us and said, "Mercy, it would never do for me to walk by you girls, looking so horribly overdressed as I do. Here, relieve me of a few of these superfluous decorations, please;"' and with that she placed a marvelous Spanish comb in my hair and. Made me wear her jade necklace which was exactly the color of my girdle. Then she handed Grace (she was the other bridesmaid, you know) her cameo set—a pin, bracelet, and little finger ring, and insisted that she wear them. Our borrowed finery absolutely made our costumes, and Marie made everyone feel that we were doing her a great favor by wearing them." "Now, I like her better,'"" Mrs. Hale smiled. "She's adorable, mother! Most girls in a case of that sort would have said: "You girls look so unadorned that [ll spare you a few trinkets to liven you up a bit.' You'll love her, I know you'll simply love her." "T hope I shall, Judith, and [''m quite certain that she'll love us more if we do a little planning for her comfort, instead of sitting here extolling her virtues upon the eve of her arrival." "A good idea! You're so nice and practical that you'll make a perfect grandmother without a bit of training! Shall we fix my room for Marie, or will you come in with me and let her have yours?" "Just as you choose, dear, but first get a pencil and pad, and plan a meal or two. Perhaps we'll need to do a little purchasing before the stores close." ~ The Hales were excellent managers and the feminine portion of the family, splendid cooks, so in a very short time Mrs. Hale and Judith had planned a delicious supper for the following night and a breakfast calculated to delight the dainty soul of the guest who would be leaving very soon after the conclusion of the pleasant meal. The mother 'had directed Judith to hasten to town to buy a chicken and some walnuts. "Tf we have some really good chicken salad, walnut roast, hot rolls and butter, with peaches and cake for dessert, your little friend should be able to make out a meal, I think. I'll put the chicken on early in the morning and it will be done in plenty of time to have the salad ready for a five o'clock supper." Judith's interest veered to less important details. "I'm certainly grateful that both the boys are invited to Slim Daly's birthday celebration tomorrow. They won't be home until after our supper is all over, which pleasing state of affairs will add greatly to my peace of mind. And mother, I'll get some asters from Mrs. Alden, she told me to help myself any time I wanted some. And last but not least, may I get Miss Donelson to serve the table and wash the dishes afterward, I'd hate to have Marie see you in a gingham dress, flitting in and out of the kitchen, and equally ~ 
 should Iehate doing the darting around myself. If we use the best silver and plates she will never dream that we don't live in style all the time. Miss Donelson charges only a dollar or so for doing that, and I could easily save that on my new party dress by using narrower lace. Shall we do it, mother?" Mrs. Hale paused a moment before replying. "Tf you really think it would make Marie and you happier, I suppose we can manage, although I confess to decided reluctance when it comes to eating with my time honored black satin dress on in the middle of the week." Judith, having gained her point, was generous. "Mother, you should be having the new party dress, instead of me, and if it weren't for the prom, I'd give it up to you! T'll get home from school by. Half-past two tomorrow and can help a lot before Marie arrives. She says she expects to get here about five after four." 'Next morning, Mrs. Hale put lunches up for the boys to take to school thus insuring for herself a long, quiet morning in which to complete the necessary preparations. Soon after eight o'clock thé chicken was simmering, rice cooking for the walnut loaf and dough for the rolls rising slightly. Then a cake was mixed and baked and the house swept and dusted until it was spotless. After cleaning the celery and putting it into clear cold water, she frosted the cake, and decided before going any further to open a bottle of catsup to pour over the pan of beans left from yesterday and put them into the oven to bake while the fire was hot. This done Mrs. Hale indulged in the short, sweet luxury of a hot bath, and clean blue gingham housedress, and was astonished to find that the noon whistles were just blowing as she returned to the kitchen. "I must have been rushing,' she soliloquized. "Judith will never believe me when I tell her all the things I accomplished before twelve. Perhaps I'd better step around to Alden's myself for the flowers to save any last minute confusion." 'A ring of the door-bell sent her hopes skyward. "The mail! Surely today. There will be a letter from my boy, telling me all about his boy." Opening the door eagerly with the happy expectant smile on her face, she was surprised -to confront a slim, shy-eyed girl who instantly smiled back at her. "Oh, I do hope you are as glad as you look to be! I was afraid it might throw you out, my coming a train ahead like this, but it was impossible to do otherwise." Mrs, Hale held out two welcoming hands. "You must be Marie! Indeed I am glad to have you come, although I fear Judith will be greatly disappointed to miss even - an hour of your visit. Come in and rest for you must be weary!" HER DAUGHTER'S FRIEND fijayy Mrs. Hale's motherly solicitude was convincing, and the premature guest followed her into the house giving brief explanations as she removed her wraps. "The last minute I learned of some friends who were going East, but they had already made reservations for the morning train while I had planned to leave in the evening. Daddy dreaded my traveling alone, so by doing an incredible amount of packing in an unbelievably short time, we got me off with these friends of ours, but I'm still gasping from the haste of it all." "I only hope," her hostess responded, "that you won't have to leave any earlier than the original plan. Judith would feel so cheated if you had to leave a morsel of the breakfast she has in mind for you." 'Marie laughed. "I shall feel cheated, too, but it must be. We are leaving at seven-ten tonight, and I had to use every argument I could think of to persuade my chaperones to wait that long. As to the breakfast—that saddens me still more, for I slept too late to eat on the train, and am literally famishing here on your hands." By this time the two were seated before the cheery grate-fire chatting like old friends. Mrs. Hale felt her heart warming toward this aristocratic girl who was so sociable and unaffected. Impulsively she turned to Marie and smiled roguishly. "T'll make a bargain with you. You shall have luncheon within ten minutes if you will keep it a secret. You see, my dear, Judith has set her heart upon flowers and things and I fear she will be made too utterly desolate if she knows that every single thing turned out contrary to her arrangements." "It's a bargain, without a doubt! I'll meet Judith at the gate when she comes, and all will progress as she sees fit," said Marie, in such an earnest tone that the other jumped up quickly. "You sound so fervent that I conclude you are willing to agree to anything which brings food." In just nine minutes the table was ready, and together they sat down to the informal luncheon. There was chicken soup with rice in it, baked beans with quantities of good bread and butter, and for dessert, strawberry jam and milk. For an hour they ate and chatted, growing so friendly that each felt that she must have known the other for years instead of moments' Dozens of matters were 'discussed, from embroidery to eugenics, and thence to dancing, ending with dishwashing, for Marie insisted upon helping clear away. At two o'clock Mrs. Hale went to her room to don the official black satin. Thus it was that when Judith bounded in, a little while later, her arms full of asters and cheeks rosy as the pinkest of the flow- 
 ers, she found an immaculate house with a properly dressed lady entertaining an obviously delighted guest. Marie flew toward her as she gave her a quick kiss, and 'told her 'how it happened. "So you see I got here a little before you did, but your charming mother has made me perfectly welcome and happy." At five o'clock, after a joyous afternoon, Miss Donelson appeared at the door and announced that supper was ready. The dining room was like a garden, and the table set beautifully. Judith and Marie were in high spirits and ate heartily of the delicious food, served so well by the impromptu Miss Donelson. Judith mentally decided that her mother could be really impressive when she tried; also, she wondered if it wouldn't be possible to get a little more dignity into their every day meals. It was stitch a short time then until the train was due that Judith did experience a sort of cheated feeling, but consoled herself with the reflection that, though short, the visit had been successful in every detail. After Marie and Judith had put their wraps on to go to the train, the visitor turned to Mrs. Hale and with a tremor of sincerity in her voice said, "Mrs. Hale, you have been so sweet to me all day that I'll never forget you." Then, seeing the puzzled express'on on Judith's face, she clapped her hand over her mouth with a gesture of remorse, and turned a fearful glance in Mrs. Hale's direction. The woman laughed and said, "Now, it's time for the whole confession, Marie." "We didn't tell you, Judith, that I came about noon, and spent the two hours before you came with your mother. We had a levely luncheon together and you can never know how intensely I enjoyed talking across the table to her—in her clean, blue gingham housedress." Marie's eyes filled with tears and she had to stop a moment to master the sob in her throat before she finished. "Tt is a very short time since Daddy made his money and just before that my mother died; so I have no memories of her connected with our present home. We lived for years on a farm, and every picture of her is one 'of cheerful service given—in a gingham housedress, clean as a pin. So I've loved today because it has seemed alee!