[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1890 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF AtL NATIONS" A HAWAIIAN SUN MYTH: Ages ago there ruled over one of the seven isles that now form collectively the kingdom of Hawaii, the powerful demi-god Maui. So great was he that the island which he governed is known today by his name, and is second in size and importance of them all. The great demi-god saw each day the sun rise out of the vast crater on the eastern summit; and he resolved like Joshua of old to stop it on its course. So he prepared a net and had it carried on the shoulders of a thousand men, and in one night spread it from one peak to another, until it covered the great crater.
Then he watched, and when the sun god again arose from out of the depths of that profound abyss he found himself entangled in the spreading mesh. In vain he sent his fiery shafts abroad; they passed through the deftly woven meshes without weakening them; and so at last the sun god prayed to. Be released.
Maui exacted but one condition; that was that for all future time the sun should shine with warm but gentle power on the island, never shrouding his rays in mist or fog or causing them to beat too strongly on the favored island. 'The promise given, the net was cut away, and since then sun has kept its pledge —Ex. CHANGES Beauteous, blissful, sunny childhood, Peerless, priceless, joyous youth! Pure, unburdened, simple pleasures, Fraught with trust and love and truth.
Wherefore do ye fade and vanish, Ere we learn to prize your worth? Ah! You're crowded out by changes— New delights, new ones find birth. SANPETE STAKE: The Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society of Sanpete Stake was held at Ephraim, in the meeting house, Friday, March 14, 18go. Pres. M. A.
Hyde presiding. Pres.
Hyde spoke of the appearance of the Prophet Joseph, the impression he made upon those with whom he associated, his noble and dignified bearing. She had the privilege of hearing his teaching, but did not then appreciate the importance of each golden word. He seemed to have the power of winning every heart, and even his enemies softened towards him if he could converse with them.
Alluded to the time when her husband, Apostle Orson Hyde, returned from a council very sad, informed her that Joseph had thrown the responsibility of the work upon the Twelve, she felt then something would take him from the people. Sister Hyde then exercised the gift of tongues, and Sister Snow gave the interpretation. MISCELLANEOUS: It is one of the strangest of all strange things in life that people are not kinder to one another. And it is beyond all understanding why one trudging along life's highway should care to go out of his way to stab another, who is doubtless having all he can do to keep up the march and tug his gripsack along. —Boston Commonwealth  HIS Mothers' Day month we are proud of our aged women—the mothers who have so greatly influenced the life of our communities.
Full of years, full of grace, faith, and the deeper wisdom that comes with approach to the eternal portals, they give forth inspiration among us. In this group are: Anne C. Milne, 101, exceeding by three and one-half months the age of Mary Susannah Higgs Slaeter, also 101; Samantha Jane Tawney, 100, living with a son aged 80; Lucy Smith Cardon, Logan, 98, who has been a subscriber to the Relief Society's literary organ every single year since its first appearance as the Woman's Exponent in 1872. Ruth May Fox, 96, for forty years was a member of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association general board, and for almost nine years its general president; Martha Burnham, 96, oldest Davis County pioneer, born in_ Iowa, where her father originated the American greenback; Sarah Sprague Bates, 96, one of the first pioneers of Monroe, Utah, with more than 100 living descendants; Susannah Matilda Huish, 95. Augusta Winters Grant, widow of President Heber J. Grant, lacks two months of being 94; Sarah Graham Buxton, 91; Ursula Bandley Gee, 91, who has served 60 years as a Relief Society block teacher;
Mary Schwartz Smith, widow of President Joseph F. Smith, known as a "Mrs. Good Deeds."
WITH their husbands, Mrs. Emily Cooley Wells of Vineyard,
Utah, and Mrs. U. E. Curtis have Choir at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893, and a promoter of higher educational goals in Salt
Lake City; Kate Thomas, one of the persistent promoters of our Oratorio
Society, and one of our most sensitive poets, expressed the spirit of our State and people as few have been able to do.
Page 313

EDITORIAL
VOL. 37
MAY 1950
NO. 5
D 1 1 iemoria
|URING the month of May, throughout this Nation, two memorial days are observed: Mother's Day on the second Sunday of the month in veneration of ideal motherhood; and Memorial Day, or Decoration Day, inaugurated to honor our soldier dead, and observed
May 30.
Mother's Day is the ''holiday of heart and home," v^rote Ann Jarvis, its founder. It was designed as a great homecoming day, a day of family reunions; a day of uplift in the homes and churches and in the individual lives of men and women.
It is a day set apart for loving remembrance of mother, for a glance back through the pages of time and a recollection of the lessons she has taught and the righteous principles she has endeavored to inculcate in us. It is a day wherein our appreciation for her loving service and our thankfulness for her life find expression in word and deed. No one can deny the worthwhileness of the day and the enduring values of love and strengthened family ties accruing therefrom.
Memorial Day was inaugurated in 1868 by General John A. Logan for the purpose of decorating the graves of Civil War veterans. It has now become a national holiday, on which we pay tribute not alone to those whose courage, love of country, and allegiance to it made them willing to sacrifice their lives in defense of Page 314
/ LOays it, but to all of our loved ones who have trodden the path of life, left their mark upon our lives, and returned to their heavenly home. It is becoming for the living to think in loving appreciation of the dead.
Calling to mind their virtues strengthens the virtues of those who remember. With this appreciation comes soul growth. Who would question the worthiness of Memorial Day?
The creation of memorials in one form or another to commemorate great events, to perpetuate noble ideals and worthy accomplishments, to honor distinguished persons, is as old as time itself. Exodus 12:14 records the observance of memorial feasts in the days of Moses: "And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever."
The New Testament records memorial observances. The sacrament read: "And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto them, saying. This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me."
Today some of our finest works of art, executed by the greatest of craftsmen inspired by the nobility of a character, the loftiness of some pursuit, or the greatness of an

EDITORIAL
315 achievement, stand as memorials to selves stimulated by loftier aspiramen and events of the past.
Irrespective of the form, whether it be a special feast day, sacred service, holiday, or work of art, a memorial calls to mind things of worth from the past. Remembering, our souls are stirred and, relating these to the present, they become factors in our own conduct. We find ourtions, strengthened by higher resolves, and imbued with a greater determination to live our own lives better.
It is entirely right that memorials be created. It is befitting that we observe memorial days, considering well the reasons for their existence.
-B. S. S. ofhe \yne uLundredth Anniversary of the cfounding of the LLmversity of LLtah
/^NE hundred years have passed since the General Assembly of the State of Deseret passed a resolution founding a university in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. The time was only three years after the first pioneers drove their covered wagons through the portals of Emigration Canyon and beheld the valley of promise before them. Our pioneer forefathers, who had already established a university in their beloved Nauvoo, set themselves to build an institution of learning in the western wilderness.
In the midst of poverty, insecurity, and the exacting labors of conquering a desert land, they looked well to the future and laid the foundation for a university which has grown to large stature and ranks high among American institutions of learning.
In the interval between 1850 and 1950, men of intellectual strength and broad vision have presided over the university and directed its advancement. Orson Spencer was appointed as the first chancellor and was followed by John R. Park, the first president, who served twentythree years and willed to the university his entire estate, including a perienced educator, followed President Widtsoe and, in turn, was suc-.
Ceeded by LeRoy E. Cowles, whose administration was marked by the establishment of many new departments. Since 1946, A. Ray Olpin, who completed his undergraduate work at Brigham Young University, 316 has presided over the University of Uah, directing the institution in a period of rapid expansion. The centenary observance which took place in February was an occasion for remembering the struggles and achievements of the past and a dedication to future progress.
Many distinguished visitors attended the celebration and thousands of alumni returned to the campus. An outstanding feature of the occasion was the academic procession, which was followed by a convocation in beautiful Kingsbury Hall. At this meeting, President George Albert Smith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was honRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 ored by the conferring upon him of the honorary degree of Doctor of Humanities. In presenting the degree to President Smith, Dean Meredith Wilson read, in part:.... He has helped to build a living economy, devoted years to the handicapped, kept alive a devotion to the ideals and achievements of the pioneers, and invested his best efforts in the leadership of tomorrow. A prophet to the members of his Church, a counselor, and friend to all, being a servant of all men, he is in truth, a man of God. For this lifetime of devoted service to the welfare of his fellow men, I recommend that he be awarded the degree of Doctor of Humanities... —V. P. C. She Landmark Evelyn Fjeldsted The cottonwood was mountain strong, Yet a gentle thing, a living song; Its gnarled old branches, reaching high, Wove a silver net against the sky. The shining leaves vied with the stars; Great clusters, hiding century scars, Were tremulous like wind-touched lace As the big tree swayed from clefted base, And with shattered nest and lonely sound, Like an emerald cloud, lay on the ground; The foliage fell like tapestry.
Landmarks were mentioned quietly. > nee aalliest Without Price C. Cameron Johns Only as a pine tree owns the hill Or white silk clouds lay claim upon; the sky, Can the heart possess beauty. To hold it with an open hand, To touch it with light fingers, To fill the eye with never-sated hunger for it, Is as near to purchasing As we may come. Reflections Rose Lee Bond What do you think I did last night? I lighted a lamp, and there in its light I saw your face as it used to shine, Two loving eyes looked again into mine.
While in this dream the flame burned low; As it flickered and died, you seemed to go Back into the twilight, from whence you had come, Leaving me breathless, and glowing, and young.
Dark in the Chrysalis Alice Morrey Bailey Chapter 5
Edith Ashe, a widow, forty-seven, in pride and desperation, after hearing her daughter-in-law Annette denounce her to her son Kit, takes a job as companion to an aged, crippled woman, Mrs. Lewis, whose son Cory is away on a_ business trip. Edith has four sons, none of whom she can live with, but has always longed for a daughter. She warms to Cory's daughter Linnie, who has come home from Boston to prepare for her wedding in June. Edith is jarred from her own self-pity when she hears the girl crying in the night because the big house is so ugly. Edith offers her own much-loved furniture, which has been stored, and together they redecorate the living room and dining room. Cory, coming home _ unexpectedly, looks minutely at the beautifully furnished room, says not a word, but goes upstairs, apparently angry. Anger and mortification for hours after the nightmarish scene with Mr. Lewis at dinner. She dreaded to meet him in the morning, and could think of no graceful way out of the situation. She was tempted to pack silently and be gone in the morning—let him do as he wished about the furniture. None of them had eaten. Linnie had turned from the stairway with a gesture of helplessness, tears glistening on her long lashes. Edith could offer no comfort; the kind she had offered had only made matters worse. Why hadn't she known it would offend and anger him? Again, as at Annette's party, she had missed FY ance: lay awake in alternate the whole delicacy of human relationship. Nevertheless, at breakfast neither Linnie nor her father betrayed by tone or look any remembrance of last night's episode. "They're an old family, Daddy," Linnie was saying. "And are these Bostonians coming out here to the wedding? Will they inspect us?" "They are coming to the wedding—Paul's parents, Mr. And Mrs. Fontaine, and his sister Emily Barnard—and her husband, and Gene Hilyer, Paul's best man." "And I guess we are to put them up." "Yes, Daddy. Almost a week." A week! Edith was appalled, thinking of the bedrooms upstairs, the old-fashioned bathroom, the §archaic kitchen, and the impossible back yard she had glimpsed from the kitchen windows. It was the end of April and the yards around the neighborhood were sprouting new grass, putting forth green leaves, but the Lewis yard was overrun with rank growth, unplanted and untended, rose bushes all run to thorns, and a lone weeping birch. A high rock wall surrounded it and Edith loved rock walls, but this one was broken and crumbling untidily in spots, buried under spiny bushes of no character. 'The front yard, while planted to lawn, had bare spots and overgrown corners. Page 317 318
The April rains had washed the dark stone of the house, however, and it shone as if waxed. The ivy had lost its.
Lifeless look. Its tender green fingers spread in all directions, and reached to the eaves of the brown, slanted roofs. 'The beauty of the flagstone terrace could not be spoiled by neglect. 'The architecture was compact, old-fashioned as it was.
Edith guessed it had been conservative in its day.
Beauty was beauty from any age of building, and the lines of the house were lovely. "Mrs. Ashe," Mr.
Lewis broke in on her musings, "may I see you directly after breakfast?".. Edith's heart plunged. He looked stern, would probably let her go— after indicting her with a few wellchosen words, of course. Her hands and feet were icy as she followed him into the living room. He indicated a chair, and took one himself, facing her. He regarded her gravely for some moments, and she waited, calm now, with rising indignation. "You have made this room very, very beautiful. I can never tell you how thankful I am that you came to us at this time," he said. FPITH's head whirled with dizzy relief. "I—I thought you were angry, Mr. Lewis, at my presumption, and about my — initiative." How she hated that word. "Angry? Why should I be angry?" "Linnie said you never charged anything, and I—" Mr.
Lewis made an impatient gesture with his hand, as if the matter was of no importance. "Give me the bill and I'll send a check." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 "You didn't say anything.
Linnie and I both thought you were angry." "IT was overwhelmed. It was seeing a dream—a very old and almost forgotten dream come true. It was pretty vivid, like Linnie's mother and I had planned it—more than twenty years ago. It was unbelievable. I had to get out of here before I made an utter fool of myself." "Oh, I see," said Edith. "I had a pretty bad night," he told her soberly. "I can imagine," Edith. "Tt wasn't just remembering," he went on. "It was seeing what I had failed to do for Linnie that gave me the worst time.
What her home could have been like. I could see her love for this room. She has an instinct for beauty, and I have surrounded the child with ugliness, thinking—well, not thinking at all, only of myself. It was pretty bitter" Edith was silent, her judgment of him undergoing a rapid change. "There's no excuse for it. I had the money.
This house—I can see that I wouldn't think of it because it was painful to go on without her.
That place I left dark and secret, and turned my energy into work.
Coming into this room last night was like having someone rip away the blinds." "It was cruel," said Edith, really SOITy. "It was good," said Mr. Lewis, "should have been done years ago. I know I can't make up to Linnie for a whole lifetime, but I would like to make these last weeks into sympathized DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS something special.
What does she need?" "Tt will be a lot of work—and very expensive," she said. "Hang the expense! We can hire the work done." "Well, it falls into three categories," said Edith, "Linnie's trousseau, the yards, and the house. Let me show you." She led the way upstairs for a tour. In Linnie's room a magazine was lying open to a girl's bedroom, done in dainty pastels, with bouffant treatment for the dressing table, spread, and window curtains. Mr.
Lewis looked at it, at Linnie's unattractive room. "T see," he said grimly. "Tf Linnie will have guests these other rooms should be done, more moderately, of course, but attractively." She showed him the bathroom, the kitchen, and the back yard. "T haven't really looked at them for years. They're pretty bad. You'll do it, won't you?" "Do what?" "The house.
Order anything you want to. I'll send the workmen. Pll take care of the yard. I have a few ideas of my own." "Linnie and J. She wants the experience for her own house." "Fine! Fine!" he beamed. "Edith Ashe, you are the best thing that has happened to us in a long time." "Thank you, Mr. Lewis.
Your household has been good for me, too," Edith told him. "It isn't possible," he exclaimed, looking at her with interest. "But it is!" insisted Edith. "T was like my furniture, wrapped and stored away—in a state of suspended animation." 319 "T don't believe it," he scoffed, "anyone as interested in life as you are, as radiant. Yet you are changed. I didn't think of you as particularly beautiful that first morning.
Fine looking, aristocratic, yes, but now you are beautiful." "Nonsense," said Edith, flushing, but his words warmed her long after he had gone. HERE was high excitement when she broke the news to the rest of them. 'They had, of course, been bursting with cur iosity to know what the interview was about, especially when Edith and Mr.
Lewis trooped through the house.
"Oh, Aunt Edith!" Linnie grabbed her and waltzed her around the table; they all talked at once.
"A new kitchen," beamed Amanda.
"Isn't Daddy wonderful? A pretty bedroom! And a trousseau!
Come! Come! Come to the fair," she sang, rushing to the piano to play the accompaniment.
The activity began at once. Before noon workmen had invaded the back yard and were pounding at the back door, wanting to know where the "lady" wanted the woodwork washed, the furniture moved, and the painting done. Edith wasn't prepared for them, and sent them to the basement to clean the furnace room.
"A good place to begin," crowed
Grandma Lewis. "I never could abide sitting in the parlor, knowing the cellar's dirty."
Two men repaired the rock wall
{ConWuMtd on page 355)

kjL JLetter oJrom 1 1 Loth er
MY DEAR CHILDREN:
How are you my darlings! This is a beautiful day. The sun played havoc with my good intentions this morning so, instead of housecleaning as I had planned to do, I spent the time outdoors in my flower garden. Nature certainly does something to one. Intentionally, too. Just look at the shower of beauty on the blossoming trees, and the glowing radiance that greets us along the garden path. Could anything be sweeter? Unless it be love.
Love! If we doubt that this is the time of year for love, we need only look at the newspapers to see pictures of lovely young girls crowding each other for space to announce their coming nuptials, to convince us of the fact. And we wouldn't wish it were otherwise.
Romantic love is necessary to a successful marriage, all right, but it doesn't supply everything, as you well know. I wonder sometimes if these radiant young girls have considered well the basic needs for this long partnership. Has each one found the answers to these questions: Is her lover kind? Is he considerate? Dependable?
Are his religious beliefs the same as hers? Ah, there is the important question. When a girl is deeply in love she wants nothing to separate her and her sweetheart-husband, either in this life or the next. In fact, there is no time limit imposed in her mind.
Never to part, is the idea.
But does she know that her fiance feels the same way about it? Is it important enough for him to have prepared himself for the consummation of their love at the altar in the only place that can bring about this lasting happiness? Our temple ceremony is thrilling and inspiring, worth great sacrifice in order to obtain its blessings, for it entitles us to eternal salvation in the celestial kingdom of God, together, if we remain faithful to our vows. It is a noble heritage and it can be ours.
These thoughts crowd in upon me at this romantic and glorious time of year.
But you know already how deeply serious the marriage vow seems to me. Forever, is the way I regard it.
You might want to teach your very young people, maybe from six years on up, to aim high in their final permanent choice. It might grow to be very important to them.
Evening follows morning, they tell me, so I had better close my letter now and prepare the lesson for Relief Society meeting which we hold in the evening here.
Please write to me soon. I love you all dearly.
MOTHER
Clara Home Park
// /|/ Slmand Sea
Mabel Jones Gahhott
Though I am inland born and inland reared,
I feel the mystery of ancient seas;
The wide blue skies embrace all I hold dear^
And Monday's sheets flaunt white sails to the breeze.
Page 320

Storing Food in a Two-Room
Apartment
Esther Clark NayJor
(Reprinted by request from The ReJiei Society Magazine, August 1948)
IN the matter of storing food in bags in a very heavy seamless sack my small, heated apartment I and tying each sack tightly, have been rather successful. To Butter also can be stored for at do this I have had to use care, when least one year if kept in sealed botthe heat was on in the winter ties in the refrigerator. Before stormonths, to select an outside wall or ing, melt the butter over heat that corner of the rooms where there is hot enough to send the curd are no heated pipes in the wall or or whey to the bottom and then the floor, to stack the cases of food pour the pure butter fat into a wellagainst the wall or in the corner, sterilized bottle, and seal. Care
Then in the summertime the food should be taken that no curd goes should be moved to an inside wall into the bottle. There is no waste or closet, the coolest place in the in this method, as the curd or whey room. can be used in cookie making.
In this way I have been able to In storing home-canned fruits, keep the food until it was used up, such as peaches, applesauce, plums, usually from two to three years. I etc., I have used the same method make my plans to store a two years' of storing as for the storage of supply every summer. canned foods. I keep one year's
The canned foods stored consist supply ahead, sometimes more. T Unable to determine - the article "Sixty Years Ago" is not visible in the provided PDF page images (pages 301-303 show different content).