THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - President

Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor

Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor

Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer

Achsa E. Paxman

Leone G. Layton

Lillie C. Adams

Alta J. Vance

Mary G. Judd

Blanche B. Stoddard

Ethel C. Smith

Christine H. Robinson

Anna B. Hart

Evon W. Peterson

Louise W. Madsen

Alberta H. Christensen

Edith S. Elliott

Leone O. Jacobs

Aleine M. Young

Nellie W. Neal

Florence J. Madsen

Mary J. Wilson

Josie B. Bay

Vol. 37 MAY 1950 No. 5

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (2 segments, 19,439 chars) ===

"T usually play first," Richard said, "but I hate to because I don't play very well." "What an understatement," murmured Randy, but Richard never noticed her. "Oh, I think you'll do fine," encouraged Susan. She pulled her chair over by the piano. Richard opened to his scales. "No," said Susan, "let's hear the piece." Richard had been practicing twice as hard all week, but had shown little improvement until now. There was something gentle about the way he approached the music. Susan played the passages where he stumbled. 'Then he played them. "Do you feel the difference?' she asked. "Yes," said Richard fervently. Randy and I were jealous, but when it was our turn Susan helped us the same way. "How well you play," said Susan to Randy, "but the run here should go—"' and she played it for us. Randy glowed. So did I. © THE RECITAL "What a lovely piano lesson," said Mama. "TI don't feel so discouraged about the recital now." "Will you come next time?" asked Richard, standing on one foot. "Tf my aunt isn't well enough," answered Susan, putting soft pink gloves on her white hands. I "Tl practice all week," promised Richard, changing feet eagerly, gazing after Miss Carroway's niece. He did, too. We fought for the piano. 'Thursday morning at five Mama had to hold Papa back to keep him from going into the living room to drag Richard back to bed. We could hear Mama arguing with Papa about it. Richard' was using the soft pedal, but we could still hear the piano. Mama explained about Susan Carroway. "You're improving," Papa said to Richard, "but don't overdo it." "No sir,' answered Richard, exercising his fingers and humming his recital piece. QUSAN Carroway rang the doorbell on the next Thursday, also. We were waiting for her, watching through the curtains. "My, how you've all improved," said Susan. "I think you'll all play lovely at the recital. You'll not be late?" "Oh, no," said Richard emphatically. We waved goodby. Afterwards Richard sat and held his music. "I think I'll be a concert pianist," he said. "Richard can't keep this practicing up much longer," said Papa. "This Susan Carroway must be something to take a piano lesson from." 301 "Yes, she is." Mama looked worried. "How can this all end?" She began darning our stockings. Richard came in and sat at the piano. It was his turn. "Richard," Mama said, "I just want you to play well enough for your own enjoyment." She bit her thread. "Do you think she'll really like this?" Richard asked, playing again. The Thursday before the recital we made Susan Carroway promise us that she'd be at the recital. "T wouldn't miss it," said Susan, dimpling for us. "Can I do anything for you?" asked Richard, as Susan was preparing to leave after this last lesson. "Just play as well Wednesday night as you played for me just now." "T will," cried Richard, hanging out of the door, looking after her. "We will," we cried. "Of course you will," said Mama. "Now come help me get dinner on. No one is to touch the piano tonight while your father is home. He's been under quite a strain these past two weeks, and he seemed very nervous about your practicing this morning at five, Richard." But Richard didn't hear her at all, and we hardly heard. We could still smell the perfume of Susan Carroway. At last it was Wednesday. Randy and I wore anklelength dresses, which were new. We practiced going to the piano, curtseying to the audience, and then sitting down gracefully. Richard tried on Father's dress suit, but it was far too big, so he just wore Father's bow 302 tie and shirt front with his own best black suit.: Mama was doubtful about Richard's clothes. "The neck on the shirt is too large, Richard." "Do I look old?" asked Richard, scowling in the mirror above the fireplace. "You'd better wear one of your own shirts," said Mama. Richard looked at her scornfully. "T've never looked better," he declared. He combed his hair again and wiped the comb on his handkerchief. He had put oil on his hair to hold it straight back and flat. He held his music carefully. "What on earth did you do to your hair?" Papa asked Richard when we went down to the car to go. My stomach felt hollow now that we were at last on our way. Richard kept swallowing and wetting his lips with his tongue. Randy's hands were almost as cold as mine. AMA and Papa went in through the front door, and we entered a side door. We took off our coats and hung them on hangers. Randy tried to fix Richard's shirt which was dislodged when he took off his overcoat. Miss Carroway assigned everybody seats on the platform. We couldn't see Susan. "Isn't your niece going to be here?" Richard planted himself in front of Miss Carroway. "Of course," said Miss Carroway, who kept dashing back and forth very busily. "She's going to be in the audience. Everyone ready now?" We lined up. The audience clapped politely as we went onto the platform. My program was wrinkled ' took it over to him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 from my damp hand. Richard wadded his into a ball. We stared out at the audience. I picked out Mama and Papa. Papa was staring back hard at us; then 'I noticed he was staring at Richard. Papa looked very flustered. I looked at Richard. He looked quite odd in Papa's dress shirt. Richard had to keep pushing it up because of the large neck size. Papa leaned over and said something to Mama; she shook her head and frowned. She didn't look at us at all. Miss Carroway was announcing that the program was to be carried out as written on the programs. Then the music began. The less advanced students played first. We had our pieces memorized, but Richard kept looking at his piece which he had brought to review until the last moment. He also kept searching the audience. The door at the back of the hall 'finally opened, and Susan Carroway slipped in. A tall man in a tweed overcoat followed. They sat in seats at the rear. Richard straightened up, stared wildly, and then slumped back in his seat. Randy and I both had to poke him when it was his turn. He went awkwardly to the piano and slouched on the seat. He began, stumbled, and came to a halt. He had forgotten! Randy picked up his music and "What's the matter with you?" she hissed. Richard scowled at her and opened his music. I looked at Papa who had slid way down so I could hardly see him. Mama had fixed her eye on a chandelier. Richard began again and went THE RECITAL clear through without a mistake. I played and then Randy, and at last it was all over. Mama and Papa came up to us. "That was fine," said Papa heartily. 'Richard, why don't you put on your overcoat? Ready to go, girls?" We were. It was fun now that it was all over. Susan Carroway made her way up to the front where we were. She brought the tall man with her. "My fiance," she explained. "Why, where is Richard?" He had slipped back into the cloak room. I I went for him. "You have to come out, Richard," I said. Richard came out. "You played very well," said Susan smiling, and she shook hands with him. Richard looked very stiff and pale, but he shook hands. 303 "Well," said Papa when we were all going home, "what kind of sundaes do you want?" We chose hot fudge, but Richard didn't say anything. "Richard?" asked Papa. "Not any kind," said Richard, but when we drove up, he said maybe he'd have a fudge one. Mama let us have a brief holiday from practicing the piano, and then we had to start again. Thump, thump, went Richard doing his scales. "T'm glad there won't be another recital for a whole year," said Mama. "Me too," said Richard tiredly, stumbling over his new piece, keepine one eye on the clock. He was back to practicing one half hour a day. She Childless Mother Christie Lund Coles I take no honor from the many who Are mothers and who wear their motherhood With grace as beautiful as candle-glow, Whose hands are swift in doing constant good. And yet, I know for certain there are those Who truly would be mothers and who ache Deeply within themselves when seeing rows Of girls in dresses that their mothers make. For they are mothers to each lonely child In neighborhood or church. They smile, they teach? They encompass with love. Unreconciled, They crave always this thing beyond their reach. So, on this day, honoring another, _I pay a tribute to each childless mother. A Converts' Granddaughter Returns Part I Helen and Cyril Pearson 'M never likely to forget Valentine's Day, 1948. That's when our European trip had its inception. The telephone was ringing. It was one of the fellows at my husband's office in New York. "Hold the line a moment," he said, "your husband Cy wants to speak to you." My woman's curiosity was aroused. First of all, I don't like the nickname "Cy," but I've learned to put up with it. It was Cy all right. "T'm going to Europe on company business," he said, "how'd you like to go along? We'll cross the Atlantic by the Queen Elizabeth— New York to Southampton, then up to London. Have a look at Hyde Park, and then wander over to Upper Brook Street at Horseshoe Yard, next door to the old home of Handel the composer. At number 6 Horseshoe Yard we'll find European Mission Headquarters. Then take the Golden Arrow train to Paris by way of the white cliffs of Dover." "Don't forget Switzerland," I cut in, rising to the bait like a game trout to a hackle, "and Scandinavia, and Holland, and Belgium. By the way, when do we start, and how much is the ocean fare?" "Leave New York on the Elizabeth, April 14th," Cy said, "roundtrip cabin fare costs four hundred and fifty dollars." Page 304 And that's how it came about that the converts' granddaughter came to visit the land of her forefathers. % % * * F once you have traveled by ship to Europe, as a missionary, you have a memorable contrast in store when you go by our ship, the "Lizzie," as the Queen Elizabeth is called, which is a floating palace. If the Hotel Utah had a twin, and the two of them could cruise together like an iceberg at thirty knots, you'd have a good comparison with the luxurious "Liz." A woman passenger expressed it well when she asked the deck steward, ""When does this place reach England?" The ship was in the lower Hudson opposite the Aquarium formerly known as Castle Garden, the European immigrant station of former times. You might call Castle Garden the Plymouth Rock of nineteenth century Zion. Tens of thousands of immigrant Mormons, with the gospel's burning zeal in their bosoms, have debarked at Castle Garden from vessels of sail and steam. After passing Ambrose Light and you're out on open sea, it takes a good share of the afternoon to get settled in the small stateroom that will be your home for the five days until the Queen reaches a not-so- "merrie England." 'The officials check passports, distribute infor- A CONVERTS' GRANDDAUGHTER RETURNS mation forms to be filled out, and keep you busy with a dozen other chores, including assignment of seats at the dining table. It's not till evening that you go out on deck to look at the brilliant moon and stars. 'The rain clouds have departed and the sky is as clear as night over the Arizona desert. Nearly a century ago your own grandparents were voyaging westward over this very sea—destination Zion in the Rocky Mountains, just like all the others who made the same journey in the past century. According to the sailors aboard a modern ocean liner, each crossing of the Atlantic is either the roughest ever made or it's the smoothest. The sailors never admit that a crossing is perhaps just in between. It wouldn't be fair to the passengers, a grizzled steward remarks with a smile. Our voyage is the smoothest. The Liz's first stop is Cherbourg, France. 'Then she doubles back to Southampton. Contrariwise, landing day in Southampton is as sunny as embarkation in New York was rainy. The boat train ls waiting to take us to London. There's a catch verse in an oldfashioned reader that you usedto think was a little oversweet. It ran. "Oh, to be in England now that April's there.' Now you know the author wrote the truth. "This day is one of a dozen that've happened in England since the Middle Ages," a Londoner tells you facetiously. 'The mountain blooms of Provo Bench on the fairest day of a century couldn't surpass old Grandmother Britain today. The 305 English fruit trees, hundreds of thousands of them, are literally weighted down with pink and white blossoms, drenched by hot sun. The train is racing through Hamp-. Shire. You wonder how many missionaries from the time of Heber C. Kimball till now have made this trip to London and have labored in these very towns. You recall that John Taylor, the only President of the Church who wasn't born in America, came from.,. This scepter'd isle. This other Eden, demi-paradise; This fortress built by Nature for herself. This precious stone set in the silver sea This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England. (William Shakespeare, Richard II, act 2, scene 1) T'S an hour and a half from Southampton to London's Waterloo Station, but you begin to scent the air of London about the time you reach Wimbledon, celebrated in the sports world as the great tennis center. London's an unknown big city, so you profit by past experience and take a taxi to your hotel on Piccadilly. Piccadilly is next to Hyde Park, where our Latter-day Saint missionaries hold forth at open-air meetings. Speaking Corner. In Hyde Park is just next to Marble Arch, and it's just five minutes walk to Selfridge's American Style Department Store on Oxford Street. You can pick up a good American breakfast at Selfridge's. Marble Arch is the site of a bloody London gallows of the Middle Ages, so it's literally true that the sound of the voices of Lat- 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 LATTER-DAY SAINT OPEN AIR MEETING, HYDE PARK, LONDON ter-day Saint elders, proclaiming the gospel at their Hyde Park meetings, carries right to one of the strongholds of ancient English tyranny. On your first trip to Hyde Park, about seven in the evening, you meet the elders for the first time out, and you look on firsthand at the test by fire of a Hyde Park meeting. In a sense, the gibes of the crowd aren't personal, but the new missionary has to have the spirit of the Lord with him if he's going to stand up to his hecklers. "Prove there's a God," bawls an atheist. The presiding elder, an ex-United States Army bomber pilot, once stationed as a soldier in this very London, is willing to discuss the existence of God, and he does. Ata favorable moment he asks a new missionary to embark on his speaking career. "Tell them of the first vision," the experienced elder suggests. The newcomer relates very simply, albeit a trifle haltingly, how the Father and Son, in response to the boy Joseph's prayer, visited the earth. A raucous cockney in the crowd yells at the young elder, "You warn't there! Hi don't believe a word of it!" A man in the crowd, sympathetic to the missionary, chides the heckler, "Leave the Mormon be! Maybe I don't believe it either, but I'll give 'im a chance." This little dramatic clash makes the crowd perk up. Other people surge over to see what's going on. Quietly the ex-pilot missionary takes over from his less experienced colleague. He asks the interrupter, "Have you ever been at the North Pole?" A CONVERTS' GRANDDAUGHTER RETURNS The crowd gets the point, and there's a modest clapping of hands and even a "Hear! Hear!" from the listening audience. As you take the trip by bus from London to Oxford and from Oxford to Stratford on Avon, you see the breed of folk who have lived on these farms and fields since the time of the Saxons. One cannot help thinking how much Stratfordon-Avon resembles a New England village. 'There is no place in Utah quite similar to Stratford. Perhaps Logan, with the college taken away, -would be most like it. Yet out of little countrified Stratford, in the sixteenth century, came the world's supreme literary genius. Shakespeare's life is still an enigma. Perhaps the Latter-day Saint doctrine of the pre-existence would explain the life and works of the bard of Avon. 307 OU'D like to stay longer in England, but you've got to move to France. So you begin the journey from London to Dover's white cliffs. Your train, the Golden Arrow, compares favorably with America's best. You reach Paris on the evening of April 30th, just in time for May Day, and you have your reservations at the Hotel California, just off the Champs Elysees, the Fifth Avenue of Paris. Paris is laid out like Washington, D. C., or, more properly, Washington is laid out like Paris, since the American capital was planned by a Parisian architect. As a lady missionary put it, if you know your way around Paris, you can get to your destination on the bias. "But, Sister," she said to me, "if you don't know your way around Paris, stick to first principles. OtherANN HATHAWAY'S COTTAGE, STRATFORD ON AVON, ENGLAND 308 wise you'll end up where you're least expecting!" For example, the intersection of streets at the Etoile in Paris reminds one of Washington's Dupont Circle. French Mission headquarters were formerly at 8 Place Malesherbes. You walk along the Champs to Napoleon's Arc de Triomphe at the Etoile, and then take Avenue Wagram, which leads you to Boulevard Malesherbes, near which is 8 Place Malesherbes. Incidentally, when you reach your location, you find memorial statues to Sarah Bernhardt and Alexander Dumas in a park next door to former mission headquarters of "L'Eglise de Jesus Christ des Saints des Derniers Jours,' as our Church is known in France. In Paris each apartment house is under charge of a caretaker. The caretaker is generally a woman known as a concierge. The concierge at 8 Place Malesherbes tells you that French Mission headquarters have been transferred to Geneva in Switzerland, but that services in Paris are held at 184 St. Germain Boulevard, on the left bank of the Seine. We start for the St. Germain address. To use a phrase well-known to Latter-day Saints, the weather continues to be of the kind that might be described as "paradisiacal." Over here they say, 'Paris in the spring!" and let it go at that, but it has a special meaning to the Continental mind. OST of the streets of Paris are named after great men and women and historical events.

---

I like very much the stories and poems and the articles on home decoration. I am not a member of the Church yet but belong to the Relief Society group here. —Dora Bradley Stibnite, Idaho New Releases— MAP OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS IN AMERICAN HISTORY New England, New York, Ohio, Missouri, Illinois, Iowa, Great Plains, Great Salt Lake periods of L. D. S. History and March of the Battalion. Originally $5.00 Now $2.50 Map 29" x 57"—Six Colors KNIGHT OF THE KINGDOM..___ 0..02..2.2-.----..$2.20 By CONWAY B. SONNE Adventures with faith. Career of world traveler; ardent Knight of the Kingdom—Richard Ballantyne. MELVIN J. BALLARD __ 222.22222e-ceeeeeeeeeeee$2.50 By BRYANT S. HINCKLEY Life and eloquent addresses of widely beloved apostle. India paper, gilt edge, leather editions— JESUS, THE CHRIST $7.00 ARTICLES OF FAITH. $6.00 Available also in library (cloth) editions. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City 10, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers Spring The time for planting the seed — preparing for the fall and winter ahead. The time for planning with life insurance —- preparing for the autumn and winter of our lives.

=== EXTRACTED ADS ===