[Songs for David—Frontispiece by Lael W. Hill]

songs that were never sung For David, when he was very young? I. He with his bonny look, his winsome ways, Was never cradled in silence. Yet—and yet— The lyrics that were for him those first earth-days, To tell of his darkling eyes, now I forget; And the dimpled arms, and the mischief in his smiles Were never told in the lilt of singing words, Were never written for him, in afterwhiles To read and remember, as chittering of small birds. All the songs that David ought to know Are gone where the small, pink dawn-clouds go. II. His voice, as he learned the sound of spoken thought, Was a trickle of music, young and eager brook; And when he faltered his first step, were there not lilf-patterings at his side? But there is no book Full of picture-words that might someday have been For him and all other Davids to enjoy. Now where are the lost songs hidden, where locked in, Since he is no longer so small a curious boy? His mother was busy about their home, And the little songs drifted away like foam. III. He ran through fields, like a puppy in his play; He found the underneath of sun: warm stones, A world of quick new creatures... Day on day Such learning filled his eyes and stretched his bones; But not one singing line was ever penned To capture his delights when he was small. Regretful, now I search my thought's frayed end. (David is eight years old, and very tall.) His little self is vanished now, Like petals blown from an apple bough. And his mother marvels, and sighs, and sings Only shadow-songs of rememberings. The Cover: "Night Blooming Cereus," Photograph by Josef Muench. RHODODENDRONS Josef Muench A Mother's Influence Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin Of the Presiding Bishopric (Address delivered at the officers meeting in the Assembly Hall on September 29, 1949, of the Annual General Relief Society Conference). RESIDENT Spafford and sisters, I deem it a high honor to participate with you in this session of your great conference. I look into your faces and what do I see? I see the finest in motherhood. You represent the best in life, for you live the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in this great Relief Society in which you enjoy membership, you render a Christlike service, taking care of those who are in distress. And you are responsible for the cultural and spiritual development of the mothers of Israel, and I know of no greater nor more important work. In thinking of you this morning, words of the ancient writer of Proverbs come to mind. He wrote: Who can find a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it, with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard.... She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her (Proverbs 31: 10-16, 26-28). I am sure that these words are most applicable to all of you. The most important unit in the Church and in the nation is the home, and you are the homemakers.
Mothers are blessed with a divine something that men do not enjoy. You disseminate a feeling of calmness, of peace, of good will and love. The divine spark in your hearts is one of the attributes which implies partnership with our Heavenly Father. It is little wonder that the Prophet Joseph declared that one of the duties of the sisters was to provoke the brethren to good works. I, and every man who has achieved in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ or in any other important field of endeavor, has been provoked to do good, to be energetic, and to achieve his ambition by his mother or wife. ) If it were not for you mothers, in many instances, our sons who constitute the Aaronic Priesthood of the Church might not be as intensely interested as they are. And as a member of the Presidency of the Aaronic Priesthood of the Church, I plead with you to provoke your sons to good works in the Priesthood of Almighty God, for therein will be found spiritual security. I am certain that when the Lord said to the officers of this great organtzation to provoke the brethren to good works, he had in mind your Page 29) 292 husbands and your sons.
There is no one who can do more with a man, whether he is young or old, than his wife and his mother.
Yours is a great mission in this day when the truth is to be disseminated to all nations, kindreds, tongues, and peoples, to inculcate into the hearts of your sons the desire to go out and serve the Lord in preaching the restored gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to the world. In this matter of homemaking, the Relief Society has contributed much. I recall a little mother who lives on the fringe of the Church and who said to me: "I am far away from the body of the Church. I live out here practically alone, but," she said, "you will never know what the courses in the Relief Society mean to me. I can still study the finest things in literature and deeply appreciate them because the Relief Society has worked out a course that I can follow." It is a wonderful thing that those who reside out in the far reaches of the Church receive inspiration from the courses provided by the general board of the Relief Society. We have often thought that culture is only found in the highly and densely populated areas; but I say that culture is found out on the fringe where the courses as prescribed by your board reach women who study these courses carefully, and who manifest the good that comes from them in their lives, and who teach these fine cultural and spiritual things to their families. OU mothers, teach your children to pray. It is at your knee that they first become acquainted RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1950 with God. At your knee they come to know God in whose image they are created, a God with body, parts, and passions. It seems that our concept of God teaches the most simple lessons to children, something that is tangible and understandable. I recall a mother who was seriously ill. She became so ill that her life was despaired of, and out of anxiety relatives and friends crowded the house. Two children had to remain outside—a boy thirteen years of age and a girl eleven.
They listened to the screams of pain, one saying: "Let us pray for mother."
They could not go into the house. The only place left was the coal shed.
Kneeling down among the lumps of coal, the thirteen-year-old boy and the eleven-year-old girl supplicated God that their mother might be restored. | Before the sun went down that day, that mother was relieved of the pain and she was restored to her children. The Lord answered the supplication of the children. But there was more than that to it.
That mother had taught her children to pray from the time they were able to speak a word, and out of her teachings they developed a profound faith in their Heavenly Father; and the mother received a much-needed blessing, the reward for teaching prayer in the home. Relief Society leaders have much to do in the matter of instructing our mothers as to what kind of reading material should be available in the home. You have no doubt observed the various kinds of reading material that are now available, much of it having to do with sen- A MOTHER'S INFLUENCE sationalism, such as crime and sex problems, and, unfortunately, much of this trash is being read by young people and older ones, too. I have thought that it would be a fine thing if in each ward in this Church the Relief Society might conduct a survey to determine what kind of reading material is available to youth in Latter-day Saint homes. I hope such a survey would not shock us; but, on the other hand, I would not be surprised if you would find some of this worldly and obscene literature. You have a great responsibility, advising and counseling the mothers of Israel to provide the nght kind of reading material.