[Neighborhood by Margery S. Stewart]

neighborhood or church.
They smile, they teach?
They encompass with love. Unreconciled, They crave always this thing beyond their reach. So, on this day, honoring another, _I pay a tribute to each childless mother. A Converts' Granddaughter Returns
Parti
Helen and Cyril Pearson
I'M never likely to forget Valentine's Day, 1948. That's when our European trip had its inception. The telephone was ringing.
It was one of the fellows at my husband's office in New York.
''Hold the hne a moment/' he said, 'your husband Cy wants to speak to you."
My woman's curiosity was aroused. First of all, I don't like the nickname ''Cy," but I've learned to put up with it. It was Cy all right.
"Fm going to Europe on company business," he said, "how'd you like to go along? We'll cross the Atlantic by the Queen Elizabeth-
New York to Southampton, then up to London. Have a look at Hyde Park, and then wander over to Upper Brook Street at Horseshoe Yard, next door to the old home of Handel the composer. At number 6 Horseshoe Yard we'll find
European Mission Headquarters.
Then take the Golden Arrow train to Paris by way of the white cliffs of Dover."
"Don't forget Switzerland," I cut in, rising to the bait like a game trout to a hackle, "and Scandinavia, and Holland, and Belgium. By the way, when do we start, and how much is the ocean fare?"
"Leave New York on the Elizabeth, April 14th," Cy said, "roundtrip cabin fare costs four hundred and fifty dollars."
Page 304
And that's how it came about that the converts' granddaughter came to visit the land of her forefathers.
TF once you have traveled by ship to Europe, as a missionary, you have a memorable contrast in store when you go by our ship, the "Lizzie," as the Queen Elizabeth is called, which is a floating palace.
If the Hotel Utah had a twin, and the two of them could cruise together like an iceberg at thirty knots, you'd have a good comparison with the luxurious "Liz." A woman passenger expressed it well when she asked the deck steward, "When does this place reach England?"
The ship was in the lower Hudson opposite the Aquarium formerly known as Castle Garden, the European immigrant station of former times. You might call Castle Garden the Plymouth Rock of nineteenth century Zion. Tens of thousands of immigrant Mormons, with the gospel's burning zeal in their bosoms, have debarked at Castle
Garden from vessels of sail and steam.
After passing Ambrose Light and you're out on open sea, it takes a good share of the afternoon to get settled in the small stateroom that will be your home for the five days until the Queen reaches a not-so-
"merrie England." The officials check passports, distribute infor-

A CONVERTS' GRANDDAUGHTER RETURNS
305 mation forms to be filled out, and keep you busy with a dozen other chores, including assignment of seats at the dining table. It's not till evening that you go out on deck to look at the brilliant moon and stars. The rain clouds have departed and the sky is as clear as night over the Arizona desert. Nearly a century ago your own grandparents were voyaging westward over this very sea— destination Zion in the Rocky Mountains, just like all the others who made the same journey in the past century.
According to the sailors aboard a modern ocean liner, each crossing of the Atlantic is either the roughest ever made or it's the smoothest.
The sailors never admit that a crossing is perhaps just in between.
It wouldn't be fair to the passengers, a grizzled steward remarks with a smile. Our voyage is the smoothest. The Liz's first stop is Cherbourg, France. Then she doubles back to Southampton.
Contrariwise, landing day in Southampton is as sunny as embarkation in New York was rainy. The boat train is waiting to take us to London.
There's a catch verse in an oldfashioned reader that you used- to think was a little oversweet. It ran. ''Oh, to be in England now that April's there." Now you know the author wrote the truth.
'This day is one of a dozen that've happened in England since the Middle Ages," a Londoner tells you facetiously. The mountain blooms of Provo Bench on the fairest day of a century couldn't surpass old
Grandmother Britain todav. The English fruit trees, hundreds of thousands of them, are literally weighted down with pink and white blossoms, drenched by hot sun.
The train is racing through Hamp-. shire. You wonder how many missionaries from the time of Heber
C. Kimball till now have made this trip to London and have labored in these very towns. You recall that John Taylor, the only President of the Church who wasn't born in America, came from
. . . this scepter'd isle. . . .
This other Eden, demi-paradise;
This fortress built by Nature for herself. . . .
This precious stone set in the silver sea. . . .
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England.
(William Shakespeare, Richard II, act 2, scene i)
IT'S an hour and a half from
Southampton to London's Waterloo Station, but you begin to scent the air of London about the time you reach Wimbledon, celebrated in the sports world as the great tennis center. London's an unknown big city, so you profit by past experience and take a taxi to your hotel on Piccadilly.