[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering]

Notes From The Field Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field' in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278. See also Handbook of Instructions of Relief Society, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Fawn N. Dilworth BLAINE STAKE (IDAHO), JEROME SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS From 1914 to 1950
Front row, seated, left to right: Martina Jensen; Tryphena Cox Sidwell; Stella Thompson. Back row, standing, left to nght: Elizabeth Wray; Bertha Smith; Mary V. Tilby; Mildred Andrus. Insets, left to right: Estella Tolman Day; Eulalia S. Welch; Bertha Newman, now serving on a mission to her native country—Switzerland. Two past presidents, Susanne Ferguson and Annie Dalton are deceased. Fawn N. Dilworth is president of Blaine Stake Relief Society.  352 > ea 
Photograph submitted by Veta J. Wattaans LOST RIVER STAKE (IDAHO), CONDUCTS UNIQUE FLOWER SHOW AND ART EXHIBIT, August 19, 1949
Veta J. Waddoups, Moore, Idaho, submits a beautifully written account of several projects which the women of Lost River Stake developed into successful fruition under adverse circumstances. "Lost River Valley is located in the heart of the desert. The valley has suffered much during those years when drought ravaged her hills and vales. Until recent years the valley has been principally a livestock country.... The summers are short and the winters cold. About 1930 the Relief Society women were anxious to begin a home beautification project to add richness to their lives.... A flower show project was begun.... Women were encouraged to plant a row of flowers in their vegetable gardens.... In August of 1930 a few women traveled miles to display their flowers.... One woman brought a small bouquet of petunias to which she had carried water in a bucket all summer. Thus the annual flower show in Lost River Stake had its beginning.... Each year a few more women made the effort; each year they learned new things.... Each year the display of flowers increased. "Then it was decided to have a handicraft exhibit along with the flowers.... This event was held in a different ward each year, which necessitated the women to travel as much as thirty miles to bring their flowers and art work.... Programs of
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 353 music, readings, and dancing were added. And so the project grew. Humble homes were beginning to take on new beauty with lawns and tiny gardens.... The work leaders in the stake, Marion Yorgenson and Maud Babcock, held art classes during the summer months to teach textile painting and fine handicraft arts. 'The results of these classes were also placed on exhibit at the flower show.... Last summer these women gave classes in figurine painting and approximately cone hundred pieces were painted. The total enrollment of our participating Relief Societies was 224 women. "August 19th our annual exhibit was held in the new Leslie Ward chapel.... As one entered the beautiful new building, with its newly planted lawns, and viewed the display of art work, the beautiful pieces of upholstery, the figurines, the flowers in gorgeous array and saw the ninety-five Singing Mothers in formal attire and heard their voices, one could not help recalling the tiny beginning from which this project sprang.... Drought has receded into the desert.... We feel that these projects have strengthened the faith of the women in their own 'abilities, in our Lost River Valley, and in the gospel." Elva J. Beal is president of Lost River Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Veta J. Waddoups LOST RIVER STAKE FLOWER SHOW 
354 
Photograph submitted by Lavina W. Barton EASTERN STATES MISSION, ALBANY (NEW YORK) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: chorister Audrey Gibson; theology leader Beth Taylor; Second Counselor Emma Barton. Back row: Secretary-Treasurer Betty Shaffer; President Lavina Barton; literature leader Barbara Behling; First Counselor Almira Kline. Active members Lena Turner and Ann Batchelor were absent when this photograph was taken. President Barton reports: "The members of this society represent three cities: Albany, Rensselaer, and Troy, New York. Meetings are held in the homes of the nbs and the attendance has been loyal and consistent. The Relief Society of this small branch just completed a successful branch party which included. A bazaar, bake-sale, fish-pond, program, moving pictures, and refreshments. Members, nonmembers, and missionaries all co-operated. Ninety people were present, including thirty-nine non-members of the Church." Georgia R. Livingston is president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Berta Piranian PALESTINE-SYRIAN MISSION, FIRST BAZAAR HELD IN BEIRUT November 1, 1949
Left to right: Alice Inglisian; Anahit Arabian; Berta Piranian, President, Palestine-Syrian Mission Relief Society; Juliet Ouzunian, President, Beirut Relief Society. - Sister Piranian reports that this bazaar was very successful and the sisters enjoyed preparing the displays. There are nine members in the Beirut Relief Society and sixteen in Aleppo. In both branches the members of the presidencies act as visiting teachers.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 355
Photograph submitted by Letta Staples SEVIER STAKE (UTAH), RICHFIELD SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS ASSEMBLED AT A PARTY GIVEN IN THEIR HONOR, January 31, 1950
This ward has the distinction of having a 100 per cent record in visiting teaching for more than twenty years. Executive officers of the ward Relief Society are: President ~Vanorma Anderson; First Counselor Blanche Spencer; Second Counselor Thelma tig ler; SecretaryTreasurer Edna Haynie. Ivy C. Ashby is president of Sevier Stake Relief Society. Eae Dark in the Chrysalis (Continued from page 319) in the back, others set to work grubbing and trimming in the back yard. Edith and Linnie hurried to sort out the furniture in the upstairs rooms, rushed to town each afternoon while Grammy slept, to choose wallpaper, curtains, and furnishings, recounting their adventures and decisions to Mrs. Lewis, who was avid for every detail. Trucks came, bringing mountain soil and fertilizer. Nurseries delivered. Shrubs which were planted immediately. Workmen_ planted grass in the finely combed soil, installed a system of sprinkling, and erected trellises. The women, dizzy with wallpaper, curtains, and furnishings, hardly noticed what went on _ outside. Linnie and Edith sat up nights, poring over color schemes in advance of morning and the workmen. Painters and paperhangers stepped aside for plumbers in the upper hall. 'Tile-setters worked at night, installing a new bathroom and a shower off the kitchen. Electricians installed new appliances in the kitchen and wired outlets for the numerous lamps that blossomed all over the house. Carpets were laid from wall to wall in each room, being finished sometimes only minutes before the furniture arrived and was set in place. The clean smell of paper and paint pervaded the house. Edith dropped to bed and to sleep almost simultaneously, so weary was she, but it was a good weariness, and it brought good 356 BEAUTIFUL 3-PART AN LEMS Singing Mother R3397 R2782
Bid Me Enter In—Wilson _.20
God Painted a Picture— DeRose ___-.---------- ee nnne ene 20 I Bow My Head in Silent Prayer—McNeill, Gallop, Kremz oon nee nee 20 R3368 If God Forgot—O'Hara +20 1560 In the Garden—Miles ____.. 16 6235
Look in Mercy Upon Us— Mendelssohn 15 900 My Faith Looks Up to Mise. Mason. LS 1075
Send Forth Thy Spirit— Schuetky _ 15 2092
Somewhere, Beyond the Sunset—Ackley 16 658
Watch and Pray—Hamblen.15 MUSIC SENT ON APPROVAL Mail Orders Filled Promptly WE PAY POSTAGE We have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home, church, and school; Steinway and Lester pianos; band and orchestra instruments and accessories and records. FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH ae i: ©, MAIN STREET SALT Mt CITY 9, hd  sleep, unridden with dreams. She thought ruefully that it would have been more fun to go slowly, but realized that time was an important element. Her whole background had trained her to economy; now she was heady with the cost of things, had lost track long since. She looked with new eyes at Cory, immaculate at dinner as he had gone to his office in the morning. Did he realize how hard he had driven her? INNIE regaled her father with accounts of the progress, their newest plans, her lovely face radiant _ with enthusiasm.
Edith was content to sit back and let her talk, proud of the girl's quick grasp of the principles of interior decoration, delighted with the ease with which the terms rolled off her tongue. "Tm not sure about that plaid room," she said once, considering prettily the paper she had brought to the table, her pencil poised at her lips. She looked so like a magazine illustration that Cory winked slyly at Edith, composing his face to respectful interest for her upward glance. A young girl in love was one of the world's masterpieces, Edith decided, a joint enterprise with a partner like Cory, the most challenging. In less than two weeks the place was completely transformed, its latent beauty dramatized fully.
Edith was amazed to see the back yard as informally beautiful as the front yard was formal. The weeping birch was leafed and gracefully swept the new lawn, already thickly emerald, healthy rose shoots climbed the trellises.
Small trees and shrubs formed interesting groups in the DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS corners of the lovely rock wall, blossoming pansies hugged their feet. A patio was gaily fitted with lawn furniture; comfortable deck chairs invited enjoyment of the warm May sun. A neighbor's apple tree leaned a blossom-laden branch over the rear wall.
Edith caught her breath. "Like it?"
Cory asked, giving her a sidelong glance. "T love it," said Edith. "It's poetic. I can readily see that Linnie is not the only artist in the family." "What's next on the list?"
Cory asked. He had flushed with pleasure at her words, color creeping to the roots of his dark hair, softening his strong features. "Linnie's trousseau and wedding dress — bridesmaids' dresses, announcements, and parties." "Parties?" "Dozens of them," confirmed Edith. "All brides have them.
Announcement parties, trousseau teas, and whatnot." "It's a racket," grinned Cory. "Well, Linnie wants the whole thing." "That's what I want her to have, Edith, the works." Her name slipped off his tongue as easily as if with common usage. Fidith Ashe, Mrs. Ashe, he had called her, never just the friendliness of "Edith." "Speaking of parties," he went on, "I'd like to have one—a dinner party." "A dinner party?" "Yes, some business friends.
They entertain me at their homes. I have always entertained them at hotels. I guess I'd like to put on 'WOFBUCKAND:-CO PARK FREE! SHOP EASY! SAVE MORE! At your nearest Sears Store, where you'll find that GOOD QUALITY ALWAYS COSTS YOU LESS! 357 'AO At wniee — anaverage days use DIME UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 358 —_—~ All Funeral Services Are $tenographically Recortled Here is another advanced feature: The only Mortuary in Utah with 3
Chapels And here is a decided convenience: Ample Parking For all cars on our own premises. Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary 125 N. Main 3-7626 SALT LAKE CITY PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein _ readily available for easy access. Either permanent binding or magazine covers in which you can add each issue as published. The Deseret News Press 40
Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah  the dog a little. Could it be managed? About next Friday?" "Of course it could," Edith assured him warmly. "Fine! For twelve people. And Edith, will you be the hostess?" "Why not Linnie?" "IT want Linnie there, of course, but I particularly want you to act as hostess. Will you do it?" "Why, I guess so. Certainly." DITH was definitely and warmly ~ thrilled as she went upstairs. _ Life, which she had thought to be all over for her, was definitely taking a new turn, one filled with excitement and interesting meaning. She dressed carefully, brushing the blueblack hair back in feathers around her face, listening with half attention to Mrs. Lewis reminisce of the old days, of her own marriage to Cory's father. Cory's hand, touching hers accidently as he helped her with his mother's wheelchair on the stairs, was like an electric shock. She was sure he felt it too, for he gave her a quick, penetrating glance that seemed weighted with unsaid things. "Daddy, Aunt Edith," said Linnie at the table, "I didn't think it was possible for me to be so happy, ever. Everything is perfect for my wedding. I dreaded for Paul and his people to come, but now I am proud of my home. I can hardly wait. I know it will all be perfect to the last detail." "Of course it will, honey. Any wedding would be perfect with you as the bride." "T love those medieval lamps on the porch, Daddy, and the house numbers. I didn't know you had such wonderful taste. Every detail DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS is perfect, thanks to you and Aunt Edith. Every inch of the place has been gone over, even Grammy's room, except your room. Why didn't you let us fix it up?" "I wanted to leave something undone, a_ psychological reason." "Why, Daddy? Please tell me," coaxed Linnie. "T don't see why not," said Cory, after a little thought. "You should be able to understand. I am going to get married." "Married?" said Linnie. A forkful of food halted abruptly halfway to her mouth. She was suddenly pale. © "Yes," Cory went on, not noticing. "I should like my wife to have at least one room left to decorate, seeing how much fun you girls have had." "Who?" said Linnie. "Who is it, Daddy? No! Don't tell me. I think I know." "Why, Linnie," said Cory in concern, for Linnie stood up. "I thought you would understand." "No, Daddy. I don't think I do," said Linnie in a clear little voice. "It is all right. It is your life. I'll get used to it. It's just that I don't think I could ever, ever—if Paul died, love somebody else." She fled swiftly toward the stairs, her slim hand to her mouth. Cory looked miserably down at his plate, Mrs. Lewis watching him apprehensively. Only Edith went on eating with great effort the lumps of tasteless food, with steady, icy fingers, as if nothing had happened, though she longed to follow Linnie, and go to her room. (To be continued) 359
Neighbor hood Margery S. Stewart Blessed are those whose lives are lived On one long shady street, Whose sheltered, well-scrubbed porches know The countless coming feet Of those who wish to borrow, And those who wish to give, Those who bring their happiness, Those needing help to live. These people walk so close to life They feel her pulses beat. Blessed are those who know the names Of every child they meet, Who break the bread of friendliness And find its savor sweet. Not for them the bitter dark Of loneliness that swells The seeking heart until it breaks Like brittle, tide-flung shells, Of him who never learned how wide A world is one retreat. RONIE JOHNSON Phone 4-4025
Same Location Since 1890 186 N Street Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery Salt Lake City — From Near and Sar I was busy ironing last Monday, but thinking, also, about the bishop who thinks The Relief Society Magazine is sad. So I picked up a stub pencil and wrote the following verses: Someone has said our little book Is very, very sad— It brought the tears into his eyes; Now, that is very sad.
These cookies are from out that book, They're good, you can't deny— Now, just another helping Of this lovely savory pie; These are pictures of the workers— Their smiling tells of joys They had in making up new clothes For needy girls and boys. Now, I can't tell you everything That's in our Magazine— But if some day I chance your way, I hope your face will beam! —Mrs. R. S. Vince Glen Huon, New Zealand The Relief Society Magazine is an important part of our home. The lessons are a source of strength and encouragement in many hours of need and are a most wonderful source of information as well as 'inspiration. The splendid articles, editorials, and also the sermons from the conference are inspirational and so helpful and make enjoyable reading. The recipes are excellent. I have tried several of them and the results were delightful. The poetry and stories bring joy from the knowledge that our Latter-day Saint women are doing some very creditable writing. The "