[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 831 | Home | Saturday Chores | Dora Black]
CHORES Dora Black In my memories of long ago, Saturday and chores were as synonymous and inescapable as Sunday and church. Requests to visit a friend or go play for Saturday were dismissed with the question, "Have you done your chores?" Mama had four girls and four chores. Which was most important, girls or chores? It could only be surmised. We heard from Mama often enough to etch it in our memories. "We don't have much, but what we have we'll polish." We did! On Saturday, Lillian polished all the family's shoes — a dull chore. Venna filled the lamps with kerosene and polished the chimneys — an even duller chore. Zelma waxed and polished the kitchen floor — dullness personified. The polished floor was, however, a proper setting for the big black, nickel-laden monarch of the kitchen, the stove, and my chore — not dull but animated. I secretly believed the stove was proud and enjoyed my loving care. On occasion we even held conversations, usually pertaining to my giving the stove "'a lick and a promise." 'Then, with complete harmony between us, I could skip cleaning the warming oven and have more time for play. There was a definite procedure to follow in performing my chore. It was important to empty the ashes first, so no ash dust could settle on the polished surfaces. In summer the ashes were emptied "way out back." In winter they were sprinkled along the snow paths. Next step was to empty any remaining water in the reservoir and refill it with fresh water from the pump. This required many splashy trips and was why I had to do my chore before Zelma could do hers. When the reservoir was filled and closed, I removed all the removable nickel from the stove — like stripping down a Cadillac — and put it aside for a later polishing. Then to the warming oven. What a collection it held — seasonings, hand irons, lard pail, skillets, and still room for late suppers to be kept warm and space to keep a supply of dry, hard toast on hand. After things were returned to their familiar places I cleaned the baking oven. It was an easy part of my chore, with the aroma of golden, plump loaves of bread seeming to linger there. Finally, I could wet the long-handled brush, rub it on the cake of stoveblack, then on the stove, and polish and polish and polish! It ls questionable whether all this diligent polishing was motivated by the stove's proud personality or just because I didn't want to hear Mama say, "A little more elbow grease won't hurt" or "... What we have we'll polish." Polishing the nickel was fun, too, first rubbing a soft, wet cloth on the long bar and then over the surface of the piece. Drawing pictures, writing names, and playing tic-tac-toe in the polishing film before rubbing it off, was all part of my chore. When the last piece of nickel was shining and in place, I felt as proud as the stove looked. My chore was finished. With Mama's nodding approval, I was free for friends or play. 830 the Food Budget Part lli—Peanut Butter Marion Bennion, Ph. D. Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition Sadie O. Morris, Ph. D., Department of Food and Nutrition Brigham Young University Peanuts are not nuts in the strict botanical sense. 'They are members of the same family as dried beans and peas. Peanuts and peanut butter contain a large amount of protein, about twenty-six per cent, and this protein is of good quality, meaning it compares favorably with the proteins of meat. In addition to protein, peanuts and peanut butter contain the vitamins thiamine, riboflavin, and macin. They are also high in fat. Peanut butter was first produced commercially by grinding and mixing peanuts about 1907 and has rapidly gained in popularity since then. It lends itself to a variety of uses in the diet, possibly the most popular being those of sandwich 'filling and cookies. PEANUT BUTTER REFRIGERATOR COOKIES 1 c. Shortening 1% c. Peanut butter 9 c. Brown sugar 3 eggs 4 c. Cake flour I tsp. Baking soda I tsp. Cinnamon l', tsp. Cloves 4, tsp. Nutmeg 1 c. Salted peanuts, finely chopped (optional) Cream shortening thoroughly; blend in the peanut butter, then the sugar. Add well-beaten eggs. Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add the chopped peanuts, and combine thoroughly with the creamed mixture. Form into rolls, wrap in waxed paper, and let stand in refrigerator several hours or overnight. Slice thin, place on a baking sheet, and bake at 400° F. For 8 to 10 minutes. Makes about 16 dozen cookies. 831 SAUCEPAN PEANUT BUTTER SCOTCHIES 34, c. Butter or substitute 3c. Peanut butter 14, c. Brown sugar, packed 2 eggs 1 tsp. Vanilla ll4, c. Sifted flour *2 tsp. Baking powder 14 c. Chopped nuts Rub bottom of a 9-inch square pan with shortening. Melt shortening and peanut butter in a saucepan. Remove from heat. Add sugar and blend. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well. Stir in vanilla, flour, and baking powder. Mix thoroughly. Add: nuts and stir lightly to combine. Pour into prepared pan. Bake in a moderate oven (250° F) about 30 minutes. Do not overbake. Cool in pan. Cut into bars at serving time. Yield: 24 bars (144 x 3 inches) *Baking powder may be omitted. If so, the bars will be more even on top and lighter in color. PEANUT BUTTER CAKE 214, c. Cake flour ll4, c. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Salt 1, c. Shortening 1, c. Peanut butter 14 c. Regular nonfat dry milk (or 14 c. Instant nonfat dry milk) 1' c. Water 2 eggs Combine all ingredients above, except the eggs, in a large mixing bowl. Beat at medium speed for 2 minutes. Add the eggs, and continue beating at medium speed for 4 minutes more. Pour cake batter into two 8-inch cake pans (greased and floured or lined with waxed paper). Bake at 350° F. For 25-30 minutes. Cool cake in pans 10-20 minutes. Remove from pans and frost. 832 PEANUT BUTTER KISSES 14 c. Peanut butter 1, c. Honey 4 c. Regular nonfat dry milk (instant nonfat dry milk cannot be used) Mix peanut butter and honey together. Blend in dry milk, a small amount at a time. Work into ball and form into roll about % inch wide. Cut into 1-inch pieces. Makes about 24 pieces. PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES 4 c. Soft shortening Vy c. Sugar 14, c. Brown sugar 1 egg Il4, c. Sifted flour 4, tsp. Baking powder 34, tsp. Soda 14, tsp. Salt c 14, c. Peanut butter c c Mix shortening, peanut butter, sugar, and egg together thoroughly. Sift dry ingredients together and stir in. Chill dough. Roll into balls size of large walnuts. Place 3" apart on lightly greased baking sheet. Flatten with fork dipped in flour, criscross. Bake until set, but not hard at 375° F. For 10 to 12 minutes. Makes about 3 dozen cookies. PEANUT BUTTER SANDWICH SPREADS Savory peanut-bacon spread: Mix '4 c. Peanut butter with 1% c. Catsup and 14 c. Chopped crisp cooked bacon. Enough for 6 sandwiches. Peanut butter-apple spread: Mix Y c. Peanut butter with 14 c. Honey and add 14 c. Chopped apple. Enough for 6 sandwiches. Peanut butter-orange spread: Mix 14 c. Peanut butter with!/ c. Chopped orange. Enough for 4-6 sandwiches. Peanut butter-raisin spread: Mix 14 c. Peanut butter with 4 c. Honey and add l4 ¢c. Raisins (which have been softened in hot water). Enough for 6 sandwiches. Awup the Christmas planning and Promoting, the holiday shuffle. Everyone is planning, trimmi Preschooler gets lost in ng, and tidying, except S just before Christmas. The Here, then, are ed things weeks ahead ready to Ourteen days arrives. Let your child put his handj. » hallways, or the kitchen, if it doesn't quite fit the decor of your living room, but above all display his handiwork! 833 First Day This project needs very little help from busy mom, just the time it takes her to light a colored candle and drip, on paper, big drops of wax. (She can do this away from him so he will not see her with a lighted candle.) The child makes beads of the droplets, by rounding them in his fingers. He then strings them on a long string, using a large needle. The wax beads look colorful on the Christmas tree, or hanging from his bedroom light fixture. Second Day This one needs supervision, but maybe big sister or a favorite neighbor girl can help. Take a small tin plate (the kind that individual frozen pies come in) and make two small holes near one edge. Tie a string through the holes so as to be able to hang the finished object. Make up some plaster of Paris or patching plaster according to the directions on the package. Let the child help stir it with a popsickle stick. Now pour it into the tin plate, and when it is beginning to set, have the child put his right hand, palm down, into the mixture, leaving his handprint. Write with a toothpick his name and the date, and let it dry. This makes a welcome gift for grandma or doting auntie. Third Day Give the child a pair of rounded scissors and let him cut small pictures from last December magazines or used Christmas cards. Make a paste of one tablespoon of flour and enough water for workable consistency, or use packaged wallpaper paste, and attach the pictures to lids, leaving the rim of the lid for a border. Cottage cheese carton lids, the little flat sealing units from home-canned fruit, or any flat lid will do. Now glue three of these colorful lids in a vertical row on a length of wide ribbon, leaving about an inch of ribbon between each lid. Have about two inches of ribbon extending from the top lid by which to hang it. This makes a clever wall decoration. Fourth Day Give the child an old candle. If the point is worn down on the top, shape another point. Let him cut rounds of colored paper, beginning with one or two inches in diameter. Each one is to be a little larger than the one before. It will take about twelve to fourteen circles, depending on how tall the candle is. A pencil on a string may be used to make the circles.

He now cuts a small hole in the center of each circle, a little smaller than the candle is round. This is so the circles will stay on the candle where placed, and not slip down. Now let him glue small beads, or bits of colored crayon, or sequins, or other sparklers on. Both sides of each circle and slip each circle on the candle, starting with the largest one to go at the base of the candle. This makes a colorful little tree for his dresser. Fifth Day Have the child cut small shapes of colored paper. These can be from the scraps of Christmas cards or the colored pages in magazines. They can be any shape, so just turn him loose. Now give him a_ large needle and thread and some short macaroni pieces and let him string first a piece of paper, then a piece of macaroni. This bright interesting string can be draped on the family Christmas tree, or hung in the child's room. Sixth Day Let this day be his baking day. Let him help you make gingerbread boys and candy houses, or sugar cookies cut into all kinds of Christmas shapes. You might want to make popcorn balls. Just be sure to make enough to let him take a few to his little neighborhood friends. Seventh Day This project will need your help, but you will be able to use some of these sparkle droplets, too, so your time will not have been in vain. Buy some marbles, the colored glass ones, or raid big brother's marble bag. Put three or four marbles at a time in a pie tin and heat them on the top of the stove, stirring them with a fork. Take old tweezers or ice cube tongs and pick the marbles up one at a time and douse each one into very cold water. This sudden change of temperature crystallizes the marbles and produces a delightful effect. They can be used to garnish a table centerpiece. You can also make a necklace with one attached to a chain. Ask at your jewelry counter for the little metal attachment with which to do this. The child can arrange the silvery little bulbs in dishes with Christmas greens and small and large Christmas balls. Eighth Day Let your child help you make a little Christmas box. Pick out six of your largest, most colorful last year's Christmas cards. They should all be of a large square shape. You will also need some colorful yarn. Cut the cards all the same size as the smallest one. Two of the cards are for the bottom and lid. Be sure to use all four thicknesses of each card to give your box the proper body. With a small paper punch, make holes all around the edge of each card. Or you can just punch the holes with a needle. Have the child join the four cards by lacing them together with ribbon or yarn to form a box. Now lace the bottom card in place. Attach the lid card only on one edge so it will open and shut, but lace it all around so it will look finished. This pretty box will hold his little treasures, or mom's bobbie pins. Father may want one in which to keep his cuff links. 836 Ninth Day Get a piece of butcher paper about three feet long from your butcher or grocer. Help the child paint or crayon a winter scene with mountains, roads, and, maybe, a river. Now the child cuts small "props" from magazines, and pastes them in the picture. He may want to put small cars on the roads, or an airplane in the sky. Of course, he will put a Santa in a sled in the landscape and houses or trees, or whatever he feels his masterpiece needs. He will enjoy displaying this on his bedroom wall. Tenth Day A peep box is the favorite time-passer of all. It is up to mother to make most of the box, if the child is small, but once made, it keeps him busy for hours. Take a small sturdy box. A small shoe box or card box will do. Cut a hole about one inch square in the center of one end of the box. This is the peephole. Cut figures and bend a little of the bottom under so that they will stand up when glued to the bottom of the box, making a three dimensional scene with the winter scene behind. You can use animals, or make the nativity scene. With a pin, puncture about a dozen holes just above the mountains or treetops in the end of the box. These holes become stars. Now, on the lid of the box, and just above the scene inside, cut a hole about two inches square, leaving one side of the square uncut, so you have a flap that will open and close like a door. Have the child hold the box toward the light and slowly open the little door in the box lid, while peeping through the peephole. Thus the scene inside the box slowly becomes lighted, or becomes "daylight," and then have him slowly close it to make it become night again. As it becomes night, the "stars" shine. 837 Eleventh Day Today let him make a scrapbook of all the Christmas pictures from magazines and cards that take his fancy. If you don't have a scrapbook for him to fill, he can paste the pictures in an old magazine right over the ads and the printing. He will take most of the day filling the book, and will spend other days looking at it, as it contains all his favorite Christmas scenes. Twelfth Day! This is a fun day. Have the child make a game on this day. Take an egg carton and tear off the lid. Now he pastes four or five paper figures such as a little Santa or ao Christmas tree in several cups of the carton. The child places the carton on the floor and stands back. He tosses buttons or beans into the egg carton and tries to get them into the sections where the pictures are. This is fun even when played alone.