[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 815 | Special Feature | "He Shall Prepare a Way" Marianne | C. Sharp]
NOVEMBER 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford At the April 1947 Church conference President Moyle was sustained as an apostle of the Lord. This high calling followed ten years of service as president of Cottonwood Stake and visiting the stakes of the Church for eleven years as a member of the General Church Welfare Committee over which he had presided as chairman since 1939. In his April 1947 conference address, President Moyle made significant forecasts of what he hoped to accomplish in his dedication to the work of the Lord. Now, sixteen years later, one can judge of the selflessness with which he abided by his statements of purpose and belief: so far as my Heavenly Father will give me the power to act I shall do so, and all that I have and am belongs to my Heavenly Father. To me that which the Presidency of this Church have said and say now, is as much the law and the gospel as anything that has ever been said or written before for our guidance. It shall be my hope and my desire that... I may be an honor and a credit to my family and my people and be able to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ and to bear this testimony throughout the world. On the death of President Stephen L Richards, in 1959, President Moyle was called as Second Counselor in the First Presidency, and, in 1961, on the death of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., President Moyle was named First Counselor. The General Presidency of Relief Society has been closely associated with President Moyle over the years through the Church Welfare Program. For a number of years it was their privilege to meet twice weekly with the Welfare Committee over which he served as chairman. President Moyle has been a good friend and wise advisor to Relief Society and has delivered instructional and inspirational addresses to the membership gathered from all over the world at Relief Society Annual General Conferences. He had a great and éxpansive soul. His desire and practice were to help his brother and, even though his health has not been robust, he never spared himself in filling assignments or meeting requests that came to him in great number to serve his Church and fellow men. He died as he lived doing the work of the Master. Truly it would seem he never tasted death and it was sweet to him. for the Saints. President Belle S. Spaff
