[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 813 | Special Feature | The Divinity Within Relief Society Belle | S. Spafford]
Then he urges THE DIVINITY WITHIN RELIEF SOCIETY them to continue walking after the commandments of the Lord. It is not difficult to imagine the message given in this scripture as being given by one of the leading elders of this day to the Relief Society sisters. It is noteworthy that the term "elect lady" was used in the revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith to Emma Smith, the first President of the Relief Society in this dispensation. This revelation, recorded in Section 25 of the Doctrine and Covenants, declares: "Thou art an elect lady whom I have called" (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 25, Verse 3). Documentary History of the Church records the Prophet as saying: I gave much instruction and read in the New Testament and Book of Doctrine and Covenants, concerning the Elect Lady and showed that the elect meant to be elected to a certain work, etc., and that the revelation was then fulfilled by Sister Emma's election to the Presidency of the Society (DHC IV, pp. 552-553). The apostle Paul, explaining the organization of the Church to the Corinthian saints, mentions the members which God had set in the Church. He explains that there are "many members, yet one body," and asserts, "And God hath set some in the church; first, apostles; secondarily, prophets; thirdly, teachers; after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues" (I Corinthians, 12:20, 28). Paul spoke to the Ephesian saints also about the offices, mentioning apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and _ teachers. NOVEMBER 1963 Elder Spencer W. Kimball, in an article published in The Relief Society Magazine, poses these questions with regard to Paul's words to the Corinthians: "What did the apostle Paul mean by helps and governments? Could the governments be the Priesthood leaders who govern and direct all the work in the Church, and could the "helps" mean the helping organizations, such as Relief Society?" Whether there was a formal organization such as that of our present Relief Society in the early Church remains for the prophets to tell us; but it is not difficult to believe that the sisters were called to do such work as is now assigned to Relief Society. Relief Society, as founded by the Prophet, is now on the way to its second century of life and service. During the 121 years of its existence, tremendous changes have taken place in the world and among its people. Few changes, perhaps, have been greater than the change in the status of woman and _ her readiness to speak and act through organized groups. When Relief Society was founded, only a few courageous women dared to speak in public, and fewer still braved the formation of an organization. In contrast to these conditions, I recently attended a meeting in Washington D. C. Where I was one among 300 presidents representing women's organizations of this Nation, none of which had a membership of less than 100,000. These 300 presidents represented a total of fifty million organized women in the United States. They had been invited to meet with high Govern- 810 ment officials to offer their views on one of the Nation's difficult issues. It is a marvel that in the face of all this change and growth that the basic organization structure of Relief Society, its governing regulations and original purposes, as set by the Prophet Joseph Smith, have remained constant, and the Society, under the pattern established 121 years ago, continues to function effectively in each succeeding era of time. This alone attests that Relief Society was founded according to the laws of heaven and not of man. Relief Society was continually under the watchcare of the Prophet during the days of Nauvoo, receiving his counsel and instruction, just as it has been under the watchcare of God's chosen prophets who have succeeded him. In his instructions to the sisters, the Prophet made clear that they were organized under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood. He told them, "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the Church in this dispensation." He taught the sisters, "If any officers are wanted to carry out the design of the institution, let them be appointed and set apart." (You note he did not say elected by the membership.) He made membership in the Society a privilege, yet he opened its doors to all women "free from censure," who were to be received by vote, according to his directive. Insofar as a constitution and by- laws were concerned, which the sisters had submitted to him in the beginning, he said "Let this presidency serve as a Constitution — all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such.... The minutes of your meetings will be precedent for you to act upon — your Constitution and law" (Centenary of Relief Society, page 15). Thus Relief Society was regulated in the beginning; thus it is regulated today. The Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key in behalf of women of this dispensation. His impressive words are treasured words: "I now turn the key in your behalf and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time.... This is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads." Just as Relief Society was divinely founded and regulated by divine inspiration according to the laws of heaven, so it has a divinely appointed mission. Listed simply I would say its mission is: 1. To save souls. 2. To strengthen testimonies of the divinity of the restored gospel. 3. To succor the distressed. 4. To develop the talents and abilities of the sisters. 5. Yo strengthen home and family life. 6. To serve as a handmaid to the Priesthood in building the kingdom of our Heavenly Father on earth. President David O. McKay has made reference to the mission of Relief Society in these impressive words: By divine decree, the women in the Church are assigned the noble mission of THE DIVINITY WITHIN RELIEF SOCIETY being exemplars and leaders to mankind in the two most worthwhile accomplishments in mortal life; first, the development of character. That is done in the home, principally. Second, willingness and ability to render helpful service — that through the organized Relief Society. These two accomplishments, by the way, are all that we shall take with us when, at the end of our earthly career, we pass through the portals of Death into the realm of the Eternal — Character and Service (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1956, page 807). Certainly, Relief Society, with a knowledge of God's divine law of free agency, with a knowledge of the sacredness of the individual and God's plan of life and salvation for his children as revealed in these latter days through his Prophet, has a grave responsibility to share this knowledge with women the world over, and to shed its influence in the promotion of freedom and the way of life taught by the Master. There is no other organization of women in the world upon whom this responsibility rests so heavily. There is no other group to whom organized women of the world should be able to look with greater assurance for strong, wise, and righteous leadership. We must work through proper channels, it is true, and as authorized by our Priesthood authorities, but work we must and give to the women of the world the truths we have been given by divine revelation. Accepting its divine mission, unscathed by time or change, Relief Society must stand a bulwark against the forces of evil striving to engulf women. It must be as a beacon light and a guiding star to women of many nations. I would like to conclude by read- 


 ing a statement by Elizabeth Ann Whitney, the wife of Bishop Newel K. Whitney and counselor to Emma Smith in the Relief Society. This statement appeared in the Woman's Exponent, November 15, 1878 — eighty-five years ago. Speaking of her residence in Nauvoo, Sister Whitney wrote: We afterward moved upstairs over the brick store as it was designated. It was during our residence in the brick store, March 17, 1842, that the Relief Society was organized and I was chosen as a counselor to the president of this Society. In this work I took the greatest interest for I realized in some degree, at least, its importance and the need for such an organization.. - - _ The Relief Society then was small compared to its numbers now, but the Prophet foretold great things concerning the future of this organization, many of which I have lived to see fulfilled, but there are many things which remain yet to be fulfilled in the future of which he prophesied that are great and glorious, and I! Rejoice in the contemplation of these things daily feeling that the promises are sure to be verified in the future as they have in the past. I trust that the sisters who are now laboring and who will in the future labor in the interest of the Relief Societies in Zion will realize the importance attached to the work and comprehend that upon them a great responsibility rests. President Joseph Smith had great faith in the sisters' labors and ever sought to encourage them in the performance of the duties which pertained to the Society. I, too, have faith in the sisters of Relief Society. I, too, feel assured that great and glorious things lie yet ahead for this organization. Relief Society belongs to the past; it be longs to the present; it belongs to the future. Its work is the Lord's work for his daughters. I, too, trust, as did Sister Whitney, that the sisters who are now laboring and who 'the future will labor in the interest of this Society, will realize the importance attached to the work and comprehend that upon them a great responsibility rests. That this conviction, borne of an abiding testimony of the divinity within this Society, will ever abide with the sisters of the Church, I sincerely pray. A Missionary Says "Goodbye" Margory E. Green A time has come f Goodbye to Engla Two years I have n or me to say d, green and fair; known her beauty, And have loved her people there. So, I will say farewell for now, But — I will be back some day — It may be in the autumn Or the lovely month of May. Meantime, I am so thankful For the blessings from above, And I shall think of England As the home I truly love. 812 "He Shall Prepare a Way'"' As I visited stake quarterly conference this past year I was very surprised with one response which came to me in the stakes. In one of the Relief Society meetings we would discuss qualifications for leadership and list them on the blackboard as suggested by those present. Following this listing, each Relief Society sister, in turn, would name the quality which she felt she needed the most. Except in one stake the answers were "self-confdence." I realized again how little we know of the feelings of others. These sisters were all stake leaders and were doing outstanding work in forwarding Relief Society within their stakes. Yet they felt the need of more self-confidence. Recently a letter came to the General Board from a sister who had been made a ward Relief Society president. She had looked at the position, in the past, as a rather routine matter. Now the position had come to her. Her self-confidence failed her and she wrote to a friend, "I am overwhelmed by the call and my personal inadequacies. I don't know how I can fill the office." As I have thought about it, I have tried to visualize just what we need to give us more self-confidence in our Relief Society callings. Certainly, self-confidence is a_necessary attribute of a leader, for who will follow someone devoid of selfconfidence? How can we inspire Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] confidence and the ability to accomplish in another, if we lack it ourselves? What can we do to gain self-confidence? How can we go about acquiring the necessary learning to fill with confidence any calling that may come? You will recall the advice of the Lord in the Doctrine and Covenants which we are now studying in Relief Society, where we are commanded to "seek learning even by study and also by faith." 'These words seem to me to hold the key to gaining self-confidence. Where better could we go to study than to the words of the Lord as set forth in his scriptures, wherein the Lord lays bare the secret thoughts and acts of men, and his dealings with man down through the ages. Is there learning to be gained on this subject of self-confidence from studying the scriptures? I have never forgotten my almost disbelief the first time I read an example of the lack of self-confdence in the Old Testament. Moses had always stood to me as the mighty leader of Israel, as the performer of great miracles before Pharaoh, of parting the Red Sea, and leading the children of Israel for forty years in the wilderness. Imagine my surprise, then, when I read Moses' reply to the Lord when the Lord first called him: "Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt," and Moses' 


 reply: "Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh?" Then the Lord in his mercy and _ understanding gave explicit directions. Again Moses said "... But, behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice." 'Then the Lord worked the miracles of the rod for Moses, and the leprosy of Moses' hand, and instructed him in a third sign he could give. Still Moses answered, "O my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant: but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue." And the Lord answered "... Who hath made man's mouth?" Yet again Moses plead "O my Lord send, I pray thee, by the hand of him whom thou wilt send." And we learn that the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses and he gave him Aaron his brother for his spokesman. Could any sister show less self-confidence than did Moses when he _ was called? And yet he became the mighty leader. As we strive for self-confidence we are reminded to "seek learning even by study and also by faith." We recall the self-confidence of a young boy who did not offer objections when the Lord told him to perform a hard task, but who showed forth faith to fulfill his assignment by declaring "I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." Nephi had received learning by study 814 of the scriptures, for after he made this statement he encouraged his brothers to return to Jerusalem by saying "... Let us be strong like unto Moses; for he truly spake unto the waters of the Red Sea and they divided hither and thither... Wherefore can ye doubt? Let us go up; the

Lord is able to deliver Ms: As we acquire learning by study and also by faith, how can we doubt but that the Lord will be with each of his daughters in the calling that comes to her. Why need we not doubt?) Why can we be filled with self-confidence? Because we are called by the Priesthood of God. As we study our social science lessons we realize more truly the power of the Priesthood, and what such a call means to us. Having accepted a call to a position, then we must study and learn the requirements of that position, for we must magnify our calling. But then in faith, and following the examples that have been set for us, we must rely on the Lord and, if our faith is strong enough, we will gain self-confidence with humility. 'Then we can take confdence in the words spoken of Samuel, "And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground." It is my testimony that if we rely on the Lord and seek learning even by study and also by faith, the Lord will let none of our words fall to the ground, and we will grow in selfconfidence and serve the Lord in trust and joy. May this be our experience as Relief Society members, I pray. Relief I Society to Save Souls 'While on assignment to the quarterly conferences of the stakes in England this spring, we visited Sister Vera Hewitt, former president of the Sunderland Stake Relief Society in her home in Whitley Bay on the North Sea. A lighthouse on the bay caught our interest — especially since living as we do in the tops of the mountains we had never been close to one before — and we walked out onto the rocky promontory and climbed the 150 steps to the top to see the huge light and to survey the world about us from that height. The lighthouse keeper explained that this was one of the few lights still powered by weights on the grandfather clock principle, not yet having been electrified. We were amazed by the _ exquisite cleanliness of the building. Not one drop of oil or grease from the massive machinery was in evidence. Not one speck of dust marred the surface of the huge prism. All was in constant readiness to go into instant action. Later in the evening, when we saw that great light piercing the darkness, the symbolism of the lighthouse and the light and Relief Society caught my imagination. I thought of Relief Society in its purity as a divinely organized Society standing tall as a great lighthouse tower sending out its glowing light and, like the lighthouse, anchored firmly to the rock Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] so that even the pounding sea could not dislodge it. I thought of the bright light as the light of the gospel and the light of education illuminating the darkness. I thought of its strong searching beam making a path of light from earth to sky like the straight and narrow path to eternal life. I thought of it as a welcome sight to ships navigating the turbulent waters of the North Sea like the welcome which comes when truth illumines the mind. I thought of the light as a beckoning ray with the message, "Come, here is safety," and the mariner, recognizing the light and the lighthouse, knowing he is on the right course. I compared the lighthouse keeper upon whose devotion to duty so much depends to officers in Relief Society, keepers of the _ light, through whom so many sisters in the world are enlightened. I was reminded of the creed of a lighthouse keeper "Mind the Light" — no matter what befalls, mind the light. Then the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith came to my mind, "The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." This is the divine commission to Relief Society from our Heavenly Father through his inspired Prophet.. "How precious are the souls of men!" the Prophet said to the sis- 


 ters assembled, on April 28, 1843. "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God," the Lord said in a revelation to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. This great emphasis on the worth of each individual soul is one of the sublime tenets of the gospel. Our Father in heaven does not look upon his children as "'the masses," but as individuals for each of whose salvation his Only Begotten Son gave himself. To fulfill the divine commission to save souls we must, as President McKay has said, "aid one another in the productive life, a life that tends toward the salvation of the human being. By that salvation I do not mean just a place in the hereafter where all our cares and worries may cease, but a salvation that applies to the indiidual here and now." We are encouraged to labor in the spirit of Christ to make our home conditions and environment better and happier. "To permeate each home with the spirit of contentment and peace; to have members of such homes devote the resources of body and mind to the upbuilding of the Kingdom of God," this, too, is salvation in this life. Mutual service is expected and Relief Society, known through the years for service, gives one an opportunity to learn and serve. "The gospel is the power of God unto salvation." Relief Society has been assigned to instruct its members, enabling them constantly to exercise their knowledge of the saving of the gospel. It is the ultimate aim of Relief Society to teach the gospel and to build firm testimonies in the minds and hearts of the sisters so that their lives, their children's lives, and their homes will reflect their 816 knowledge of the laws of God. It is a basic doctrine of the Church that each individual must work out his own salvation. We do not believe that a mere statement of belief in Jesus Christ is all that is essential. One's whole life should be spent in increasing his soul growth by continuous work in accordance with his faith. But the Lord does not expect us to work out our own salvation alone. He will help us, the scriptures will help us, our families and friends will help us, the Authorities of the Church and our activities in the Church will help us. No one goes his way alone. The responsibility is upon each of us, however, to be righteous, faithful, and to do our duty by our fellow men. We are admonished to proclaim the principles of the gospel by our words and by our actions. "Teach one another," we are told, and this the sisters do admirably in Relief Society. "Live the gospel," we hear, and this also Relief Society inspires us to do. The divine commission to Relief Society to save souls is a commission to Relief Society as an organization composed of almost a quarter of a million sisters, and to each member herself. Let us take upon ourselves this divine commission, my dear sisters, and labor without ceasing in love and goodness to do the will of our Father. The Lord said to Lehi, "Blessed art thou Lehi, because of the things which thou hast done; and because thou hast been faithful and declared unto this people the things which I commanded thee." If we righteously assume our true assignment the Lord may have cause to say unto us "Blessed art thou." and Instructions I It is with pleasure that I bring to you a report of the status of Relief Society as shown in the 1962 annual statistical and narrative report, together with a few suggestions and instructions related to the conduct of the work of Relief Society. The year 1962 was marked by growth and expansion, with emphasis being placed on membership building and development of leadership. Organizations and Reorganizations At the close of 1962, the Society had a total of 430 stake and mission organizations, twenty-five more than during the previous year, and a total of 5,288 ward and branch Societies, an increase of 366. These figures are heartening in that they evidence growth in number of members, expanded influence for the Society, and increased opportunity for leadership positions among the sisters. During 1962 there were seventyeight reorganizations in the stakes and twenty-one in the missions. Membership There was a membership increase during 1962 of 16,991, makPresident Belle S. Spaftord [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] ing a total membership of 248,166 (almost one quarter million members). During the last five years, Relief Society has had an annual average increase of 12,946. We are grateful to Relief Society presidents for their resourcefulness and diligence in enlisting new members from among both Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint women. Reports indicate that personal contact and continuing personal interest in a woman is the single most effective means of enlisting her as a member. Inter-faith socials, however, which have been held extensively, usually on a stake basis, have been extremely helpful in focusing the attention of nonmember women upon the Society, of arousing their interest in it, and of opening doors for follow-up personal contact. These socials have set new standards of beauty, meaning, and enjoyment for Relief Society socials. (As leaders, we must not lose sight of the fact that dignified, delightful, purposeful social activities are an integral part of the program of Relief Society.) We commend you for the excellence of these programs. 


 Attendance In a day when women engage themselves in many activities and when a high percentage of them are employed, it is encouraging that average attendance at regular meetings of the Society increased by 4.9°>. There was in attendance at each of the weekly meetings an average of 93,224 women, 4,360 more than a year ago. It is the opinion of the General Board that the attendance increase was _ influenced by the increased number of two-session ward Relief Societies. You will recall that these were discussed in the Official Instructions last year which were published in The Relief Society Magazine, November 1962, page 807. Copies of the detailed instructions for conducting and recording the activities of two-session Relief Societies are available at the General Board office upon request of stake Relief Society presidents, for distribution to ward Relief Societies desiring to enter into such an arrangement with the approval of their respective bishops. Missions Relief Societies in the missions seem to be taking on new vitality; and tremendous effort is being made by mission Relief Society presidents, fully supported by mission presidents, to bring the branch organizations up to high standards of performance in harmony with Handbook regulations. Numerous types of special projects have been conducted to build membership and to teach the purposes, programs, and approved procedures for Relief Society activities. Leadership meetings and mission publications are effective tools in helping with this. Mission presidents are taking a new look at the visiting teaching program. They see in it, and I quote, "a valuable niche for service and the development of convert members." Compassionate Services Compassionate services show a _ marked increase for 1962 over 1961. Figures are as follows: Visits to the sick and homebound Days care of the sick Funerals at which Relief Society assisted Hours of other compassionate service Thus, during 1962, Relief Society devotedly fulfilled one of its major assignments. Church Welfare Participation There were 97,515 visits made to families by ward Relief Society presidents under the direction of bishops, an increase over 1961 of 3,890 visits. A larger number of 818 Number Increase 365,822 8,488 + 30,732 521+ 9,251 405+ 498,290 97,150 + Relief Society members than ever before in our history assisted on welfare projects — 63,389, an increase of approximately 9,000 over 1961. The sisters of the Church contributed approximately 900,000 hours on the Church welfare projects. Sisters receiving assistance seemed to sense more than ever before their responsibility to assist on these projects, actually contributing over 218,000 hours, or approximately 6,000 hours more than during the previous year. Among these sisters, there were more than 4,000 who sewed for themselves, being taught to do so in large measure through Relief Society. The General Board suggests the advisability of ward Relief Society presidents keeping familiar with welfare produced foodstuffs available for distribution to families through the bishops' storehouses. In planning work meeting programs, these appropriately might be kept in mind and demonstrations be given on the preparation and use of these foods in the family diet.