[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 862 | Lesson | Work Meeting — Planning Exterior Upkeep of the Home Virginia | F. Cutler]
WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 13 — Planning Exterior Upkeep of the Home Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, February 1964 Objective: To make the home a beautiful setting conducive to various types of family activities. Tue ancient Israelites wrote signs on the posts and gates of their houses to let everyone know that people who believed in God occupied these dwellings. Our forebears of the last century didn't write word signs for this purpose, but there were many signs in Mormon villages where fences were mended, wood was piled up neatly for the winter, houses and barns, no matter of what material — log or stone — were in good repair. 'There was usually plenty of family activity to indicate that planning extended beyond the needs of this day, this month, or this vear. Belief in God and in eternal values was evidenced in the training of children as families worked together to make their homes a heaven on earth. Today the "remnant" of ancient 860 Israel is scattered throughout the world, with nonbelievers on every side. In some areas, multiple housing and suburban living are replacing the family farm. Our problem is: how can the family work together to take care of today's needs and provide a setting conducive to the development of each individual — a setting so strong in its influence that without words written on gates or posts, it will tell the world what manner of people live inside? If you follow the great tradition of the past, you will answer this question by putting your roots down in any place you may live, no matter for how brief a stay or whether you own or rent, leaving it better than you found it. You may have heard people apologize for the bad condition of their living quarters by saying, "We are only renting, so we don't want to spend any money, time, or effort on this place because it belongs to the landlord," or "We plan to move in a few months, so there is no point in doing anything to the house or yard." One can become so conditioned to squalor, ugliness, filth, disrepair, and disorder that the eyes no longer see and the mind no longer perceives anything better. To save yourself from this sad plight, it is important to stand off away from where you live and look at what you call "home" critically. Does it express your ideal of an appropriate setting for your family? Is there anything about the place that lifts your soul? Do you sense order, cleanliness, integrity, fair dealing, kindness, and reverence from the appearance? Is there a certain individuality about the place that bespeaks your way of life? After your critical appraisal, make a list of what should be done and plan to involve the whole family in making improvements. One family decided that the house needed paint, so a project was planned that required the help of all six of the offspring. The small children cleaned up and painted the screens. The older children, who could use ladders, helped with scraping off old paint and put on the primer. The adults did the finish coat. The work could have been criticized by a professional painter, but if the family had had to wait until they had money enough to hire it done, they would have missed the excitement of bringing about the transformation and the fun of working and planning together. Other projects followed. Books about LESSON DEPARTMENT landscaping were borrowed from the library, and a plan for some trees, shrubs, and flowers was developed. Cuttings were obtained from neighbors and relatives, and it wasn't long until the house became more rooted to the site, and, through the loving care of each member, it started to express the ideals and aspirations of the occupants. The children took turns in taking care of the garbage and each was responsible for putting play equipment under cover after use. A swing was hung in the back yard. A sandbox was provided. A picnic table was constructed, and so many new projects grew out of what had thus far been accomplished that no longer was there the problem of children always wanting to go some place else — to them, there was no place quite like home. A young couple just starting out in marriage went to Tokyo to serve in the Armed Forces. They had imagined their home as a_picturesque Japanese house and garden, but found that they were to be housed in the ugly gray of army barracks. Instead of bemoaning their plight, they did something about it. They painted their front door green and put out a welcome mat. Some trailing vines and other potted plants were grouped on either side of the doorway. A low bench with a gay cover tacked on provided a place to sit down and take off one's shoes before entering. There was promise of something even more interesting inside, and the lucky ones who had the privilege of entering were not disappointed. A Japanese fish net, shells from the seashore, some Japanese prints, and seasonal flower ar- $


 rangements made one forget completely the ugly army barracks seen from the outside. This was the setting for the birth of their first child, and the setting where they learned to plan and work together to make LITERATURE @ Here was a Latter-day America's Literature a place better than they found it. Saint home that had its label written on the doorway through other symbols than words. What label do you have on your doorway? Lesson 45 — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic (1874-1963) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 825-833) For Third Meeting, February 1964 Objective: To discover Robert Frost through a sympathetic understanding of his poetry. The poems included in this lesson are from Complete Poems of Robert Frost, Copyright 1923, 1928, 1930, 1939, by Holt, Rhinehart and Winston, Inc., Copyright 1936 by Robert Frost. Copyright renewed 1951, (c) 1956, by Robert Frost. Reprinted by permission of Holt, Rhinehart and Winston, Inc. Te death in February 1963 of the poet Robert Frost, a four-time Pulitzer prize winner, removed from the list of living American literary artists, a man of no mean accomplishment. He, together with Carl Sandburg and T. S. Eliot, supplied the extreme diversity in poetical composition which reflects the American image. It is found complete in no one writer alone. While Eliot has enjoyed by far the greatest influence as nucleus of the sophisticated "modern" school of criticism and poetry, by comparison Sandburg and Frost have come to be considered 862 as old-fashioned affirmers who write of the people and to the people — literary outlaws they are, more bluntly stated. Yet, pervasive and fashionable though the Eliot school has been for over thirty years, it is Sandburg and Frost whom many have loved and honored, possibly because these two old-fashioned "moderns" have written poetry which is more understandable, and because, in turn, they have loved and championed the virtues of plain, average Americans. "Ends and beginnings — there are no such things." The best proof that this Frostian statement is an enduring truth lies in Frost himself. Most fittingly he exemplifies the timeless qualities in which he placed his trust, both as man and as poet. And, in complete independence of both well-wishers and scorers, he ignored contemporary literary patterns and fads as he carefully built his poems to contain the form and tone which he felt were true to themselves as poetry, as well as to the stony integrity of their maker. "The land is always in my bones," wrote Frost. And, he might have added, so are poetry, puckish wit, and a sustained high regard for the simplicity of greatness as exemplified in his companions, Homer, Theocritus, Dante, Milton, and Shakespeare. He shared these masters in his stimulating talking and teaching which was frame to his body, as light to his mind, and hope to his soul. INTRODUCING FROST Descendant of nine generations of staunch New England folk, Robert Lee Frost was named in honor of General Robert E. Lee, his father William Frost's personal hero. Robert was born in San _ Francisco March 26, 1874, less than a decade after Lee's surrender at Appomattox. When his father died he left a wife, two children, a life insurance policy with its last premium recently unpaid, and a request that he be buried in New England soil. His request was honored by his resourceful Scotch wife. Having no money nor near kin of her own, she took her children to Lawrence, LESSON DEPARTMENT Massachusetts, where the grandfather, a foreman in the textile mills, reluctantly welcomed them ("We were the hole in the bucket," Frost recalled as an adult). At once his mother put her excellent classical education to good use by becoming a teacher while Robert went to work in the mill, always carrying Shakespeare or Virgil in his back pocket to read during his lunch hour. After being co-valedictorian with his future wife and after seven years of odd jobs, Robert attended Dartmouth college for two months, but so disliked the methods and content of formal education that he quit. After his marriage, he attended Harvard University for two years before he abandoned all hope of ever getting an education and returned to farming and teaching, but really to writing poetry, his full, real love. When his grandfather advanced the $1,800 to buy him a one-horse, oneman farm of thirty run-down acres, he said to young Frost, "I know what you're up to [he meant poetry]. Will you settle down if I give you a year to try this out?" Frost struck a great auctioneer's pose and dared him with, "Give me twenty, give me twenty!" And that is just what it took. THE EMERGING POET During his restless college years, Frost frequently took solitary walks in the woods, which disconcerted his classmates. "What do you do on your walks?" they asked. "I gnaw wood," Frost replied. Thus, the poet Frost ever felt the need to renew himself in solitude, that his inner voice might sing truly and that he might be alert to his own 


 "imnerness" and record it. In Vermont he felt he was getting nowhere. He had published but a few poems and had no association with other poets or professional literary persons. Although at thirty-eight he was described by the State superintendent of schools as the best teacher in the State, Frost wanted to be the best poet. Staking everything on his dangerous experiment, Robert sold his farm in 1912 and moved his wife and four children to a peaceful farm not far from London, England. In England he met other young poets who believed in him, predicting the quiet but substantial success of his first slender book of poems A Boy's Will, which was published in London the following year. In 1914 his publication North of Boston was praised by eminent critics both in England and im tiie United States' In 1915 he risked the hazards of submarine attack to bring his family home to a new farm at Franconia, New Hampshire. Frost was already famous. From then until 1949, when his Complete Poems appeared, published several books of poems, four of which received the Pulitzer Prize fox literary excellence, the only American to be so honored. In addition to being given almost forty honorary doctorates by distinguished universities in his own country and the British Isles, he was the only poet ever to have participated in the inauguration of the President of the United States. This occurred on January 20, 1961. FROST, THE TEACHER In 1915 his success as a poet became assured, and he still hoped to 864 make his living solely from poetry; however, it became apparent that royalties from his book sales would: not be enough. It was in 1917 that President Alexander Meiklejohn of Amherst College took the daring step of making Robert Frost a full professor and the first Artist in Residence in. Any university — all without Frost's even having graduated from college. In addition to founding the Breadloaf School of English in 1920, Mr. Frost lived and lectured intermittently at Amherst, Michigan, Dartmouth, Harvard, and, before the exertion became too great, read his poems on the campuses of the great universities of the Nation. But whether lecturing to an audience or in the classroom, he was always a great teacher in action. Seeking always to influence and excite rather than to persuade, he defined himself as a "sort of poetic radiator." Acting on his solid conviction that "courage is the human virtue that counts most" he had the regular textbooks stored in the _ basement while he led his students in the lifelong activity of discovering new relationships between books of Plato, Gibbon, and the myriad phases of life surrounding a growing boy. To be "daringly good" as a teacher, he strove to teach his students the supreme import of "two I minimal things: taste and judg: ment," these being dependent upon imagination, initiative, enthusiasm, inspiration, and originality, first in the teacher, then by infection, in the students. A man of fire who vastly preferred an informal discussion in the front room of his home to stiff class sessions, he constantly I forced his students to defend things as they are, and to question why a change wouldn't be better. Gentle, kind, and understanding, nevertheless he was always careful not to let the routines of teaching submerge his untrammelled, poetic self. He preached as earnestly as he practiced. An English teacher has three prime duties: first, duty to self; second, duty to books; third, duty to students. For example, in several instances during his teaching career, Frost entered the classroom to find his desk piled high with required themes. "Anything here anyone wants to keep?" They shook their heads "no." So I asked them again and they said "no" again. "All nght. If you don't value them enough to keep them, I don't value them enough to want to read them," and I threw them all into the wastepaper basket. "Tm no perfunctory reader of perfunctory writing" (SARGEANT, ExizaBeru S.: Trial By Existence, Holt, Rinehart and Winston, page 71. Reprinted by permission of the publishers). Of such stuff are great teachers made, whether it be in 1912 or 1982. FROST, THE CRAFTSMAN For Frost, poetry was nothing if it was not true. He never wrote a poem which was not based on actual experience. "A poet must lean hard on facts, so hard, sometimes, that they hurt." Though generally credited with the ability to capture in his poems the actual speech of tural New England, Frost aimed at far more than merely mirroring actuality; for him the rhyme of phrase and sentence must have the LESSON DEPARTMENT "sound of sense." If the words rang right, the form then fit its contained subject matter and the poem, as an organic whole, "begins in delight and ends in wisdom." FAVORITE POEMS In June 1922, Frost returned to his Vermont farm after a long teaching session at the University of Michigan. In one of the great poetic experiences of his life, he stayed up all night 'composing his long philosophical poem, "New Hampshire." Stepping outside to stretch and greet the dawn, Frost wheeled back inside and in "one stroke of the pen" wrote one of the loveliest lyrics in the English language, a poem in which form and content seem perfectly suited to each other: STOPPING BY WOODS ON A SNOWY EVENING Whose woods these are I think I know. His house is in the village though; He will not see me stopping here To watch his woods fill up with snow. My little horse must think it queer To stop without a farmhouse near Between the woods and frozen lake The darkest evening of the year. He gives his harness bell a shake To ask if there is some mistake. The only other sound's the sweep Of easy wind and downy flake. The woods are lovely, dark and deep, But I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep, And miles to go before I sleep. (Complete Poems of Robert Frost, page 275). As do many of Frost's poems, this one exemplifies the classic graces 


 which Frost esteemed: an easy gentleness, both of word and structure; the simplest of words and subject, all flawlessly contained within a traditional rhyme scheme and stanza pattern. Yet, at the poem's end, all we know for certain is that the poem is not merely about a momentary pause of horse and man in an empty wood before driving on. Frost believed in the great importance of permitting every person to get from a poem whatever he can, and that it is far more important to learn to enjoy a poem than it is to analyze and criticize it almost to pieces, until the magic which is poetry is bedraggled, if not de stroyed. Nor does the above poem relate to any specific region or folk. Though we may feel in our bones how completely Frost has absorbed the New England scene and idiom in his, rarely if ever do his characters speak in a peculiarly New England cracker-barrel dialect. He "speaks New Englandly" only to recall a subject incident or conversation, then, by giving it the soundsense and form which make it into poetry, he makes it speak universally, not regionally. What is more of one place, yet of no certain place than the poem he chose to be first in his Complete Poems? It appeals as strongly to a preschool child as to the city-bound adult longing for the pristine beauties of a country boyhood: THE PASTURE I'm going out to clean the pasture spring; I'll only stop to rake the leaves away (And wait to watch the water clear, I may ): I shan't be gone long. — You come too. 866 I'm going out to fetch the little calf That's standing by the mother. It's so young It totters when she licks it with her tongue. I shan't be gone long. — You come too. (Ibid., page 1). Though increasingly through the years Frost's growing concern was with the crushing impacts big cities, industrialization, science, mass communication and mass government, education and religion were exerting on himself and the people of his time, his "lover's quarrel with the world" was less the enduring Frost than his expressions of love and trust. "We love the things we love for what they are" represents him as do the poems which radiate such — a love: "Tuft of Flowers' (text, page 826); "Death of the Hired Man" (page 827); "Mending Wall" (page 829); "Birches"; "The Road Not Taken" (page 831); "Iwo Look at Two"; "There are Roughly Zones" (page 832); "The Runaway"; and many many more. Nor should we forget that he is master of humor, and sometimes a rather grim irony, as seen in "Out, Out'; "Home Burial'; "Not to Keep'; Fire and Ice"; and "Departmental." Two of Frost's poems particularly deserve to be better known. The first is one of the very few poems Frost wrote which admits he has lived a city life along with many of us. ACQUAINTED WITH THE NIGHT I have been one acquainted with the night. I have walked out in rain — and back in rain. I have outwalked the furthest city light. I have looked down the saddest city lane. I have passed by the watchman on his beat And dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain. I have stood still and stopped the sound of feet When far away an interrupted cry Came over houses from another street, But not to call me back or say good-by; And further still at an unearthly height, One luminary clock against the sky Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right. I have been one acquainted with the night (Ibid., page 324). The second poem, "Desert Places," is saturate with the tone colors which are peculiarly Frost's own. Snow falling and night falling fast, oh, fast In a field I looked into going past, And the ground almost covered smooth in snow, But a few weeds and stubble showing last. The woods around it have it — it is theirs. All animals are smothered in their lairs. I am too absent-spirited to count; The loneliness includes me unawares. And lonely as it is that loneliness Will be more lonely ere it will be less — A blanker whiteness of benighted snow With no expression, nothing to express. They cannot scare me with their empty spaces Between stars — on stars where no human race is. I have it in me so much nearer home To scare myself with my own desert places. (Ibid., page 386). ' popularity? LESSON DEPARTMENT Restrained yet lyical, simple yet profound, set in his own tone and sentence cadence, and yet belonging to none, to all, provincial yet transcending itself into universal — in sum, poetry which penetrates us we know not how — this is Frost's "Tree at My Window," which finally represents him: Tree at my window, window tree, My sash is lowered when night comes on; But let there never be curtain drawn Between you and me. Vague dream-head lifted out of the ground, And thing next most diffuse to cloud, Not all your light tongues talking aloud Could be profound. But, tree, I have seen you taken and tossed, And if you have seen me when I slept, You have seen me when I was taken and swept And all but lost. That day she put our heads together, Fate had her imagination about her, Your head so much concerned with outer, Mine with mner, weather. (Ibid., page 318). THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Discuss Frost as a poet, old-fash. Ioned yet modern. 2. Do you feel Frost to be more a representative New England or an American poet? 3. How do you account for his wide In your opinion what quality or qualities in his work are most enjoyable, most valuable? 867 SOCIAL SCIENCE ° Divine Law and Church Government Church Government: Its Organization and Structure Lesson 11 — Quorum Relationships to Wards and Stakes Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, February 1964 Objective: To clarify tion of Church government. When the men _ holding the Priesthood live up to the ideals of the Priesthood, the Church advances rapidly; when they falter in their duties the progress of the Church lags" (RupcER CLawson, quoted by Joun A. Wiptsor, Priesthood and Church Government, page III).... The Lord never did anything that was not essential or that was superfluous. There is a use for every branch of the Priesthood that he has established in his Church. We want every man to learn his duty, and we expect every man will do his duty as faithfully as he knows how, and carry off his portion of the responsibility of building up Zion in the latter days (Smitn, JosEpH F.: Gospel Doctrine, 1956 edition, page 177). THE BEGINNING OF ORDERLY DEVELOPMENT From the time Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received the Pnesthood in 1829, they had the responsibility of developing an organization that would meet the requirements of the revealed gospel. The effectiveness of the operation of the plan of salvation required an efficient organization. 868 the working relationships of Priesthood quorums to the opera- 1. For the Perfection of the Saints. From time to time, upon the petition of the Prophet, revelation was received that opened the way for the establishment of the essential structure of Church government. In the 107th and 124th Sections of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord revealed, among other things, the quorums of the Melchizedek Priesthood and their place in Church I organization and government. In the 143d verse of Section 124 the} Lord said, "The above offices I have given unto you, and the keys thereof, for helps and for governments, for the work of the ministry and the perfecting of my saints." In this statement we are again reminded that the divine program has as its purpose the welfare of mankind. Every revelation, every office established, and every operation of Church government is designed to help carry out this purpose. The Lord's wisdom, knowledge, and love are exercised eternally toward the exaltation of his children which ls his glory. When Section 124 was given, the leadership of the Church was struggling with many of the most serious problems in its short history. Persecution of leaders and members was common. The exterminating order of Governor Boggs of Missouri had been issued on October 27, 1838 (see DHC III:175), and the new city of Nauvoo was being planned and constructed. At the same time, the organization and government of the expanding Church membership had to be given strength and development. As the Church population grew, the number of men receiving the Priesthood grew. These two conditions, growth of Church membership and increasing numbers of Priesthood holders, required the development recorded in the 124th section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Recognizing that the Melchizedek Priesthood is the power to act in God's stead upon the earth and, also, recognizing that in order to lead or participate in Church govemment a man must be called of God by official action of the proper authority, it was necessary to organize Priesthood holders into functioning units. In so doing the relationship between Priesthood calling and the operation or function of a Priesthood quorum member as an authorized officer in the Church was clarified. 2. Differentiation of Authorty. In the 107th and 124th Sections of the Doctrine and Covenants directions are given for organizing the quotums, and specific duties are set up that a quorum member could be directed to perform. It was necessary for quorum members to know that while they had the power to act in LESSON DEPARTMENT God's stead as elders, seventies, or high priests, they could not function in the government of the Church except as they were called by proper authority and sustained by the membership of the Church to minister in a particular office. However, a man may, at any time, exercise the power of the Priesthood for himself and the members of his family, such as administering to the sick. LINES OF AUTHORITY The Priesthood line of authority is that authority which authorizes another to ordain an individual to a calling in the Priesthood (elder, etc.); the ecclesiastical line of authority refers to the officers in charge of opcrations of Church government begining with the President of the Church and including every sustained officer in the government of the Church. Each of the officers in the ecclesiastical line of authority, including the First Presidency, stake presidency, and bishoprics, all function in their offices and receive the keys of their offices by the laying on of hands by those having proper authority. 1. Priesthood Line of Authority. Both lines of authority combine in the President of the Church. He, with his Counselors, constitute the Presidency of the High Priesthood. Peter, James, and John were ordained apostles by Jesus Christ. They, in turn, restored the Melchizedek Priesthood to this earth by ordaining Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. The Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph and, through him, to the others who were called 


 to serve with him in the organization of the Church, and, through them, to all the others who have held, do now hold, or who will hold the Melchizedek or Aaronic Priesthood in this dispensation of time. Each male member of the Church can trace his Priesthood line of ordination back to the Savior. 2. Ecclesiastical Line of Authority. The President of the Church is called of God to be the Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In order to receive this office, he must hold the Melchizedek Priesthood with the calling of High Priest. He selects his Counselors who are High Priests and the three constitute the Quorum of the First Presidency. This quorum guides and directs the Church, with the help of the Quorum of the Twelve, having as their first responsibility the welfare of the members of the Church both spiritually and temporally. The Lord, speaking to Moses, said, "This is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Pearl of Great Price, 1:39). The Church government, under the leadership of the Prophet, is set up to accomplish this purpose. The authority to preside and conduct the organization of the Church is in the hands of the First Presidency, who operate the over-all government of the Church through the General Authorities. This group operates through the stake presidents and counselors. 'The stake presidency functions through the bishops of the wards and presidents of branches. The operation of a branch is similar to a ward. The 870 branch president may be an elder, but functions similarly to a bishop. Branch is the title given to the smaller units of Church organization. Independent branches have a presidency and function similarly to a ward. Dependent branches are part of an independent branch with authorized officers who carry out as much of the program of the Church as is practicable because of the scattered condition of the membership. All records and reports are made a part of the record of the independent branch to which the dependent branch belongs. The bishopric is the head of the Aaronic Priesthood in the ward in addition to being responsible for every member of the Church within © the boundary of the ward. This basic unit of the Church is the center of growth and development of the membership. By a commandment of the Lord (D & C 133:8-9) missionary work began with the organization of the Church and has continued to be a vital part of Church activity. Our discussion would not be complete without relating the administration of the missions to the government of the Church. The First Presidency select and set apart the mission president, and he receives his instructions from them and reports to them. The mission president has two counselors whom he selects with the approval of the First Presidency. The first counselor assists the mission president with the supervision of the saints (mission board, auxiliaries, districts, branches, Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthood, and _ part-time missionary program), and the sec- ond counselor assists in the proselyting activities (missionary proselyting and training, teaching elders, supervising elders and missionaries ). THE ORIENTATION OF PRIESTHOOD AUTHORITY The title of the leadership of the Priesthood line of authority is the Presidency of the High Priesthood of the Church. (The ecclesiastical line and the Priesthood line of authority are combined in_ the Quorum of the First Presidency. ) On the stake level, the members of the stake presidency are the presiding high priests of the stake. 'They hold the Priesthood line of authority in the stake and have direct charge of the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums in the stake. The stake Priesthood committee, composed of the stake presidency and the high council, are assigned to the supervision of the various quorums within the stake. 'The Seventies Quorum has a dual allegiance to the stake authorities and to the First Council of Seventy. 1. Quorum Members and Their Relation to the Bishop. The ward bishopric have the responsibility -of the welfare, spiritually and otherwise, of each Church member within the ward. 'They do not have charge of the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums or Melchizedek Priesthood groups within their ward boundaries. This, as has just been explained, is a function of the stake presidency carried out through the Stake high council. But every quorum member is a member of a ward and, as such, is accountable to his bishop. 2. Quorums and Leadership. The CHRISTMAS SUGGESTIONS FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES a BENEATH A SOUTHERN SKY—Rich 022oo. Oo..
