[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 868 | Lesson | Literature — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic Briant | S. Jacobs]
[Literature — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic Briant S. Jacobs]
Ist South I / Salt Lake City 11, Utah} NOVEMBER 1963 Priesthood quorums are the training centers for Church leadership. Beginning with the deacons, the quorum activity provides experience in leadership, training in the principles of the gospel, and an experience in fraternalism that gives real significance to the idea of brotherhood in the Priesthood. Quorum membership, therefore, provides the most significant and specific opportunity for the training and preparation of the lay leadership in the Church. 3. The Challenge to the Family. Too often this unit of training leadership (the Priesthood quorums) does not live up to its potential. It may be because the quorum program is taken for granted and, therefore, no effort is put into it, or it may be indifference on the part of the leadership, or it may All of the Numbers for the Relief Society and M. I. A. Are obtainable at —_—- BEESLEY Music (o. 70 SO. MAIN ST. EM 4-6518 SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Mason & Hamlin — Weber — Hardman and the Original Cable Pianos 872 be that boys are without the basic home teaching regarding the sacredness of their Priesthood callings. The strength of family influence is in evidence in every phase of Church government. Truly, the family is the basic unit. It is literally the foundation upon which effective and enduring organization depends. Dictators, recognizing the important principal of dedication, go to every extreme to cultivate their ideas of government in the minds of children. Youngsters schooled long enough and intensively enough in communism usually become dedicated to the principles and ideals of communism. The minds of children will re I spond equally well or better to training in righteousness. 'The family in the Church must be dedicated to the idea of training their members in the divine pattern of life beginning in early childhood, interpreting the Lord's way of life through parental leadership. OPERATION OF THE AUXILIARIES The title designating the ecclesiastical head of the Church is the First Presidency. Under } their direction, but through the personal attention of members of the Quorum of the Twelve, the General Boards administer the auxiliary programs of the Church. These programs are set up under the inspiration of Priesthood leadership and are designed to help meet the needs of the various age groups in the development of effective members of the Church. Auxiliary means a help, an aid, or assistance. As the Church grew and expanded its organization, specific assignments were: given to each of the auxiliaries as they were created. 1. The Function of General and Stake Boards. The General Auxiliary Boards present the programs within their assignments to the membership of the Church. The programs are given to a stake auxiliary board which is limited in authority to act within the geographical boundary of the stake and under the direct supervision of the presidency of the stake. The line of ecclesiastical authority is from the stake presidency to the stake auxiliary officers. 2. The Ward, the Base of Operation. In each ward there are auxiliary organizations to work with the Church members in putting into Come See Our New Store Under New Management CRAFT ITEMS Plastic — Ribbon Christmas Decor Chenille — Yarn Styrofoam — Glass Artificial Flowers Leaves — Copper Jewelry Findings Candles — Felt Crystal Marbles Hat Frames — Net Etc. LESSON DEPARTMENT operation the auxiliary. Programs. This is the area of direct contact with the people of the Church. The ward auxiliary organizations are set up by and under the direct supervision of the bishopric. The bishop, knowing his people, their abilities, strengths, and weaknesses usually provides activity for them according to their preparation. All direction and instruction from the General Auxiliary Boards come through the stake organization to the ward auxiliary workers. 'There is a stake high council member assigned to each stake auxiliary board having the specific responsibility to know the programs of that auxiliary and to keep the stake presidency properly informed of the progress of its program. K. D.
