[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 858 | Lesson | Theology — The Bishopric; Parenthood Roy | W. Doxey]
[Theology — The Bishopric; Parenthood Roy W. Doxey]

From both the theology course on the Doctrine and Covenants and the social science course on Priesthood and Church Government, Relief Society members throughout the world are receiving a _ better understanding of the workings of the Church and the power of the Priesthood. They are also learning of their responsibilities as wives and mothers to support and encourage their husbands and sons in their Priesthood duties. They are mindful of the great blessings of the Priesthood which they share through the Priesthood bearers in their families, and where they have none, of the blessings which come to them from their activities in the Church as directed by the ward and stake or mission and branch Priesthood authorities. President McKay called attention at an initial meeting for Home Teaching representatives that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the only church that has divine authority by direct revelation. He said, '""We are speaking to a group of men today whose duties will be to help those who visit to perfect the saints, who will go about teaching 'for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ.' " President McKay also said in closing his remarks, "God bless you and give you inspiration in bringing the spirit of this new program, new assignment to the entire Church rejuvenating all our Ward Teaching with this Home Teaching Plan, that every individual will be brought to a consciousness of the Priesthood which comes direct from the Son of God." The General Board of Relief Society gives its full allegiance to the Home Teaching program and enlists the support and active cooperation of every Relief Society member. 823 Dr. Kathleen Kenyon, a famed British archeologist, is directing a five-year program to uncover the remains of the Holy City. It was practically obliterated by the Romans one hundred years after Jesus warmed that not one stone upon another should be left of Jerusalem. A wall twenty-eight centuries old has been discovered, and bits of broken pottery tell many tales. Senator Maurine Neuberger, from Oregon, has written a book on smoking, to be published by PrenticeHall. She admits having been hard on "the public guardians whose failure to act courageously or decisively has left unchecked the epidemic rise in smoking-connected disease." Madame Hervé (Nicole) Alphand, wife of the French Ambassador to the United States, is considered a model of fashion and elegance and has been called "the most charming hostess on Embassy Row." Nevertheless, she is a most devoted wife and mother. She says a wife should be a comfort and support to her husband, reassuring him and constantly renewing his faith in him- 824 Ramona W. Cannon self. Such faith, she believes, all men are inclined to lose occasionally in the fierce competition of modern life. A woman's place is at the side of her husband, being a true companion, she avers. Katherme Anne Porter, author of Ship of Fools, Pale Horse, Pale Rider, and other noted novels and novelettes, as well as many short stories, has been awarded the Emerson-Thoreau Medal by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She was also given an honorarium of $1,000, and the awards committee made the comment, "No _ living American is her equal." Dr. Eva J. Salber, of the Harvard University School of Public Health, recently conducted a survey of 6,810 students between fifteen and seventeen years of age, in the public schools of Newton, Massachusetts. The survey covered ninety-one pet cent of the enrollment in this age group. Dr. Salber found that the intelligence quotient (IQ) and the records of accomplishment were consistently much higher for the students, both boys and girls, who were nonsmokers. 826 VOLUME 

 N 'We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet To guide us in these latter days." Latter-day Saint women above all others can be grateful that they are members of The Church of Jesus Christ so that they are led by a prophet; can be thankful when their husbands hold the Priesthood and exercise its power in behalf of their families. A great to-do is made today of the changing world and, especially, of the changing role of women in today's world. Glib words are spoken of the new qualities and resources a woman needs to fulfill herself. To a Latter-day Saint these statements are loaded with the sophistries of men. It is true that the demands of the present civilization require more education and years of training, but basic qualities and characteristics of the human soul remain the same. The Lord is no respecter of persons and his children, in any of his dispensations, are judged by their thoughts and actions in line with the light of truth vouchsafed to them at the particular time in which they live. In this dispensation great and high, indeed, are the standards by which the members of the Church will be judged because of the light and truth which abounds. Journeys into space and conjectures as to whether or not a man can be placed on the moon or other heavenly bodies are of interest, but with man's present knowledge, no one, probably, can approach the knowledge which Abraham had of the heavens, for he was shown some of the Lord's handiwork by the Lord himself, and the laws of earth life remain unchanged. And so it is with the work of women today when economics and other pressures tend to force or beckon women into the labor market. The Latter-day Saint woman knows through the direction of the prophets that her fundamental vii Anna B. Hart Pearle M. Olsen Edith S. Elliott Elsa T. Peterson Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stoddard LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Alice L. Wilkinson Josie B. Bay LaPriel S. Bunker Alberta H. Christensen Irene W. Buehner Mildred B. Eyring Irene C. Lloyd Charlotte A. Larsen Hazel S. Cannon Edith P. Backman Hazel S. Love Winniefred S. Fawn H. Sharp Manwaring Celestia J. Taylor Elna P. Haymond Anne R. Gledhill Mary R. Young Belva Barlow Mary V. Cameron Zola J. McGhie Afton W. Hunt Oa J. Cannon Wealtha S. Mendenhall Lila B. Walch role has not changed. It remains the eternal one of wife and helpmeet to her husband, and mother of men, she who clothes the spirit children of her Father in heaven in a body of clay of this world and rears them in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. What has changed since Eve brought forth Abel, and Cain, and Seth? What added qualities of mind or spirit have been given to women today, not possessed by Eve? Her role as wife and mother has not changed, nor her attributes nor understanding. Eve knew the bitter sorrow of the evil in her son Cain and had at her command the same faith and trust in the Lord that her daughters have today. One cannot believe that the great mother Eve was derelict in teaching light and truth to Cain. Her blamelessness in his wickedness would be her comfort, as it would be to a mother today. In this world today, the only differences from earlier times are external ones. Women remain the same. Temptations which batter at the fundamental virtues wear different garbs and appeals with which Satan seeks to entice women away from their God-given work as wives and mothers. The same virtues are needed - faith, repentance, prayer, loyalty, guidance, and a knowledge of the truths of the gospel and a living of them. Nothing new is needed to "allow her to fulfill herself.'' Washers, dryers, comptometers, furnishings, automobiles, helicopters, airplanes, typewriters, higher education, space travel - all hold out intriguing possibilities and woman's free agency remains. She may develop her potentialities to the fullest, for the Lord has instructed his children to develop their talents. But, with it all, woman is held to her fundamental role as wife and mother. Whatever else a woman does, nothing will excuse her from the fulfillment, as the opportunity comes to her, to be wife and mother. Joy and exaltation rest upon obedience to the two basic commandments of the Lord to Eve - to be a helpmeet and a bearer of children. —M. C. S. 827 What Mormonism Means to Me Lorinda Tortice As an activity in the Indian Student Placement Program of the Church, a Youth Conference open to Indian students in the program over fifteen years of age was held in April at Bountiful, Utah, prior to the return of the young people to their parents on the Indian reservations. Leadership abilities in speech, essay, talent, and display were demonstrated and awards of twenty-five dollars each, to be applied on their college tuition, were given to the winners. Printed below is the speech which won an award for Lorinda Tortice, a fifteenvear-old girl of the Apache tribe (Ed.). To me Mormonism is a way of life to be lived each and every hour of each and every day. Why am I a Mormon? Have you really thought for an answer to that question? Of course, it is a big one — it can well concern a person during his entire life. The time has come when President David O. McKay has charged every member of the Church with the responsibility of being a missionary, so it is more important today than ever before that we have the question clearly in mind, that we not only work out an answer to satisfy ourselves, but we must be prepared to answer all inquiries. "What do the Mormons believe?" "How are their teachings different from those of other churches?" "Are the Mormons Christians?" I hope if I am ever confronted with these questions, I will not have to stumble about and then say, "Well, I guess I'm up against it." Many of us are Mormons because our parents are. 'This is a good reason, but our parents cannot give us a testimony. We gain a testimony from our Heavenly Father through the Spirit of the Holy Ghost, but we must do our part first, by having a desire to know the truth, then, 828 through faith, diligent study, and prayer, our Heavenly Father makes the truth known to us. This is what Mormonism means to me. I was baptized in the same manner Jesus Christ himself was baptized, by immersion and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands from those in authority, meaning men holding the Holy Priesthood. I believe in modern revelation. I know that President David O. McKay is a true Prophet as was Joseph Smith. It does not sound logical to me that God would talk to the prophets of old, then seal the heavens and cease to guide men in these perilous times when we need direction as never before. I am a Mormon because I know that the gospel is God's plan to save his children, and it more perfectly satisfies all the desires, conditions, and needs of mankind than any other system of ethics or philosophy. Mormonism explains my origin, and The Book of Mormon is a history of my own people. How dear to my heart are this Book and Mor monism. Without them, my existence would be empty and motiveless. I know that if I follow the teachings of Mormonism, I will receive untold blessings.