[Vol50 | November 1963 | Page 802 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

I have just finished reading "And They Shall Also Teach Their Children," by Elder A. Theodore Tuttle, in the July issue of the Magazine. What a wonderful guide for us parents in the upbringing of our families. As a convert and a mother of fast-growing children, I really appreciate Elder Tuttle's remarks and the wonderful Magazine that brings this message to us.
—Joye P. Muir
Frankton, New Zealand

Since joining the Church my husband and I have had more spiritual blessings than it is possible to tell. I have received the July and August issues of The Relief Society Magazine and have received a great deal of food for thought from the many inspirational articles. I was especially impressed by the article "Part of the Fragrance," by Ann G. Hansen, and the visiting teacher message, by Christine H. Robinson, both in the August issue. These two articles made me re-evaluate myself and recall the great number of good intentions, and the equally great number of forgotten good intentions. I have promised myself to stop whatever else I am doing and when I get a good intention to carry it through. I have already kept this promise and have earned more for myself than the ones I tried to please.
—Mrs. Marilyn Domroe
Glendale, California

Each issue of the Magazine is a treasure — but when you add all twelve and have them bound together, then you really have a whole volume of beauty and inspiration. The ward Relief Societies in our stake are surely using the many wonderful recipes for their work-meeting luncheons and on other occasions when they want something especially nice to serve.
—Ruth H. Millet
President
Rigby Stake Relief Society
Rigby, Idaho

I am a bride of but a few months, and one of our wedding gifts was a year's subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. I enjoy and read many times each issue. Every page gives me wonderful ideas on how to make my marriage an eternal success.
—Mrs. Ellen D. Seedall
Idaho Falls, Idaho

I like the changes made recently in the Magazine. The introduction of color makes it more attractive, and also I like the smaller size. It fits into my purse better. I am amazed and very proud of the talent of so many of our women.
—Myrene R. Brewer
Ogden, Utah

I wish to thank you very much on behalf of my wife for sending The Relief Society Magazine, which we receive with thanks.
—Wm. T. Moore
Richmond B.C.
Canada

As usual, I have greatly enjoyed the Magazine during my stay in American Samoa. Recently, when it was necessary for me to go to the hospital in Pago Pago for treatment, I took some Magazines with me. They were the means of my becoming acquainted with the fine supervisor of nursing, an American Catholic from London, England. She was attracted by the beautiful cover, and after she had glanced through the Magazine, she said, "That is the loveliest Magazine I have ever read." Then, after further reading, she said, "No wonder your young people grow up to be so fine." Since then she has attended our Church services, and we have had many fine gospel conversations.
—Arlene L. Anderson
Mapusaga
American Samoa

802
