Cathedral of Peace By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
SYNOPSIS
Carolyn Evans in her early married life had parked her mind beside the highway of Life. Now, in middle years, she suddenly realizes her husband Turner Evans has gone on and is almost out of sight. Despairing of ever overtaking him, she has thought half-seriously of Kane Holland and divorce, thinking that would solve her problem. She sounds out her son Bob Evans on the subject, and he comes back with "—good grief, Mother, be your age." She had counted on her eldest son to understand, but she was not so certain of her second-born Carson who, while resembling his mother in looks, had none of her quiet reserve; no one could ever predict what particular note he would strike at any given time. On the morning the story opens, Turner had refused to take Carolyn with him to a convention at Crystal Springs. Hurt and bewildered, she had fled to her CATHEDRAL OF PEACE, a cottonwood grove in the lower pasture of the ranch. To her there comes Kane Holland, indignant for her and offering her a way out. Shocked, she leaves quickly. On the way back to the house she meets Bob. Bob is in love with June Straughn but will make no advances to her because of the condition of their home. Bob's inference that his mother is a doormat arouses Carolyn's determination to do something about her situation. Divorce or not, Bob would never have occasion to speak to her in such a manner again. She will accept the opportunity recently offered by Mrs. Straughn and asks Bob to drive over to the Elkhorn to tell her as much. Turner Evans, irritated by the ever widening breach between himself and Carolyn and baffled over a solution, releases his feelings by a curt manner toward Bob. He orders him to locate Carson who had been sent hours before to repair the east-line fence. Carson is in ill humor and confides in Bob that he is tired of conditions at home and is leaving. "Watch your step," warns Bob and turns his horse toward the Elkhorn to deliver his mother's message.
As he crosses the river, he notices a figure sitting astride her horse, watching.
As Bob's horse splashed noisily out of the stream, he noticed a girl on the bank. She also was astride a horse.
"I am glad you came across there," she called gaily. "I have been wanting to cross there but wasn't sure of the depth."
"It's safe," he answered, embarrassed by the unexpectedness of her. "Earlier," he added, "it is dangerous if you don't know the stream, but not for long."
The girl was watching him closely. "You are Bob Evans, aren't you? I am June Straughn. We live here." She indicated the meadows and fields.
As if he didn't know. As if every boy in the valley didn't know June Straughn by sight. As if in spite of the few times he had seen her, there hadn't already been a bond forged between them. Yet, he was surprised that she knew him.
"How—how did you know me?"
She laughed, unaffectedly. "Who could miss a man your size? I often see you working or riding. You know our place is slightly higher, so I can look down on you—literally, I mean."
A quick fear checked the warm glow that was rapidly engulfing Bob. He opened his lips to speak again, but his tongue was tied. He thought angrily, "Why can't I be free and easy as she is? Why don't I tell her I have been living for this minute, that having had this minute I shall never be the same."
She noticed the warm color that spread over his face and neck. "He is perfectly lovable when he blushes," she thought. Aloud she said, "I've ridden over most of the ranch, but I haven't crossed the river. Is that the only ford?"
In some ways she was like Garden Semple. Garden could quickly put one at his ease, as this girl could; but there was such a difference. This girl's gray eyes were frank and shining. There was no deviousness in them. She spoke naturally and not for effect. The clearness of her countenance came from lack of clouding experiences. Life to her was clean and sweet and fine. Bob's chest swelled.
"I have asked you three times if this was the only ford?" She was frankly puzzled.
"I—I was thinking of something," he offered as an apology. "Did you want to cross?"
"Perhaps. The land over there doesn't belong to the Elkhorn, does it?" "That is ours, except farther—"
"I was just riding," she volunteered when he did not go on. "It is a little lonesome here. I have never lived where distances were so magnificent. It sort of destroys the feeling that you have neighbors. People seem," she hesitated slightly, "well, they seem a little unfriendly."
"They are afraid of you."
Her eyes widened in surprise. She started to laugh, but the laugh ended in a sigh. "Am I that awful?"
"You are perfect."
The moment the words left his lips he blushed again at his own boldness. Who was he to say such things to her!
"Thank you. I hope I have not been snooty. I had no intention of it. Am I keeping you?"
"No. This isn't the only ford. In fact, it isn't a ford at all, any more than a dozen other places. There is one farther down. Want to see it?"
"I'd love to, if you have time."
Just then, he had all the time there was. He had quite forgotten the yearlings that were to be moved. Blissfully conscious of the moment, he turned his horse east. They crossed a field belonging to the Elkhorn, and opening a gate, went through it onto a narrow dirt road. They followed it south as it rambled along near the foothills; then it turned sharply to the west and toward the river.