NOTES FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund
THE General Office takes this opportunity to say to all the Field, "1940—may it be the happiest, most prosperous year Relief Society has ever known!" The gratitude of the officers goes out to the capable, devoted women who have carried on and have sent in the interesting accounts of activity from all parts of the world.
Nampa Stake
SISTER LILLIE LOGAN supplies us with the following report from Nampa, one of our youngest stakes. It demonstrates fine cooperation in putting over the Nutrition lessons: "A very interesting program and demonstration was held in the Second Ward L. D. S. Chapel at the August Union meeting. The program was presented by children taking different health parts. A table was beautifully decorated with fruits, vegetables, whole wheat and milk products. At the opening of the meeting, little children marched in, representing carrots, milk, oranges and baskets of vegetables. Small boys displayed the proper food for school lunches — sandwiches of whole wheat bread, milk products, milk and fruits. Proper breakfast foods were also demonstrated— whole wheat grain, cereals, eggs, milk and fruits. After this, a group of small girls marched in and sang "The Vitamin Song". During the singing, a group of pictures containing the different vitamins was placed upon the wall back of the children. Miss Frances Gallatin, the District Home Demonstration Agent, gave an educational lecture on nutrition and daily food selection, explaining the effect of proper and improper eating on white rats, using the pictures for illustrations. She gave the value of milk products, vegetables, whole-grain products, meats and eggs. The family budget was also explained."
South Sevier Stake
UNDER the capable leadership of President Jetta Marquardson, this enterprising stake has done many excellent things, not the least of which is the organization of the Singing Mothers shown in the accompanying picture. The effect of the work of this fine group has been felt in every part of the community. Not only has it furnished music for stake and ward functions but for the Manti Temple also.
Oquirrh Stake
THE reports from Oquirrh indicate activity in every field of Relief Society work. One of the interesting features is the record made by some of the visiting teachers. Spencer Ward is unique in this. The picture is of Helma Jenkins and Harriet Jenkins who have been visiting teachers for eighteen years and haven't missed a month visiting their district. Living in a rural community where distance is a problem, these two good sisters have for the past two years included two districts in their calls. Among the new recruits to Relief Society, we show the pictures of the two youngest members in the stake —Phyllis Jones Arnone, nineteen years of age, and Lola Knight Jenkins, just eighteen years old.
Wells Stake
THE Jefferson Ward reports unusual success in its visiting teaching program. Comprising twenty-eight districts, it has for the past three and one-half years achieved a record of one hundred per cent visiting teaching. The work has been done by a group of sixty-two teachers among whom may be found some interesting individual records of service: Sister Patrea Latimer, in her seventy-fifth year, has been a Relief Society member for fifty years. Sister Rose Anderson is the widowed mother of thirteen children yet renders outstanding service as a visiting teacher. Equally interesting things could be told of many others. The one-hundred per cent record has not only been achieved in the number of visits made but also in the quality of work done.
San Bernardino Stake
SOME of the very fine creative work of the Relief Society comes to us from a report of the activities of the San Bernardino Relief Society. For the 17th of March program, the stake suggested that each ward present a pageant in poetry and provided an outline. The pageant reviewed the Organization from the beginning to the present, depicting the spirit of its founders, the faith and courage of those who have carried on during the past century, and the promise which the future holds. It was written by Evelyn Wilde Heath and was a very fine contribution. "The Apostolic Review", also written by Sister Heath, was presented in each ward as a conclusion to a very successful year's work in Theology. It summarized the glorious mission of the men who "walked and talked with Jesus" and emphasized the importance of their mission to us. It was very much appreciated.