MUSIC DEPARTMENT
The Emotional Content of Music and Its Effect Upon Tempo By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff
THE emotional effect of music unknown to the listener depends chiefly upon three things: Variations in tempo (speed), variations in dynamics (loudness), and variations in tone-color. The present article is concerned with the first of these.
Observe that while it is important to start a piece at an effective tempo, it is variation from that speed that is important in interpretation. Although transition of mood into tempo is not reducible to strict rules, it is possible to learn in a general way how to decide upon a tempo for a given piece, and where to change the speed effectively.
To define a tempo mentally, we must compare it with other tempos. Let us set three speeds as standards. Each reader should now get a baton and set a "slow" tempo, a "medium" tempo, and a "fast" tempo. Each one may have different speeds, but that does not matter. These speeds will serve as standards for the one who sets them.
Now each reader must select a tempo to express "grief". Which of the standard speeds is it nearest? Most conductors will find that they have chosen a speed very near the "slow" standard. A tempo selected to express "joy" will be found to be very near the "fast" standard, and a tempo to express "contentment" is likely to be "medium".
When a large number of people set tempos for a given emotion, the results are surprisingly uniform. They indicate that the more joyous the mood, the faster the tempo, the more sorrowful the mood, the slower the tempo.
Not only can the initial speed be determined in this way, but the small variations in tempo that are part of a good interpretation and an effective performance can be worked out by following in minute detail the changes in emotion expressed by the words.
Sometimes the initial speed of a piece is indicated by a metronome marking. When this is the case, the tempo must not be followed rigidly but must be subject to variation with the mood of the words.
A metronome is a spring-driven pendulum upon which slides a movable weight. The higher the weight stands upon the pendulum, the slower the instrument ticks; the lower the weight, the faster the tick. To find a given tempo by means of the metronome, set the weight on the mark that corresponds to the given number, then beat the given note at the speed of the tick. For example, if the marking is ? = 100, set the weight at 100 and beat a quarter-note to each tick. Having established the tempo thoroughly in mind, turn off the metronome. Practicing with a metronome is likely to make a conductor's rhythm too uncompromisingly rigid.