[Westward in This Era by Dorothy J. Roberts]

westward in this era, Who, tasting a new glory, found it good; To those with quickened sight for lengthened space— Earth's wildernesses dwindle.
Power stood Fire-ringed above their barricades, Greater than. The might of man, or mile That raised against The Word a bitter threat In sullen stretch of sage or voice of guile.
Drouth could not quench their spirits' living springs, Nor rob their hunger of its vital bread.
Where parching winds had gnawed the dim trail through, They only stayed to splice the broken thread. A clarion roll of prophecy, fulfilled, Climbed its high crescendo in their day Barriers were straw before the hoofs of brass, And the young lion loosed against the prey The Cover: Mount Chephen in the Canadian Rockies Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece Photograph: Pyramid Lake, Jasper National Park, Canada Courtesy, Canadian Government Travel Bureau Girders of Strength
Eva Willes Wangsgaard
AS a skyscraper is supported and reinforced by girders, so is a social structure. The pioneers builded by means of strong girders a social structure which has risen from a lowly, despised station to one of enviable eminence.
But as steel girders may be weakened by corrosion and rust to let a building collapse, so may our society fall if we let the girders corrode, or build the ever-growing social structure with an inferior framework.
Let us examine some of the pioneer "girders" and follow them into our day. Our forefathers had faith— not only faith in God as our Heavenly Father, and in Jesus
Christ, as his Son, not only faith in Joseph Smith and their leader Brigham Young as prophets of God, not only faith that the golden plates were real and translated by the Prophet Joseph with God's aid
—that they contained the word of God and a history of the ancient inhabitants of this continent, but faith in themselves as sons and daughters of God, who not only enjoyed the knowledge and privileges of the new dispensation, but carried the responsibilities of that knowledge and those privileges.
Not only the doctrines and covenants of the Church were theirs, but a philosophy of life which actuated their very beings through every waking hour, affected their work and their play, their responsibilities as citizens and as parents. This sense of responsibility felt so keenly by our ancestors was the belief in man as an individual which was in them brought to the highest point in the world's history.
So few people ever analyze the philosophy of Christianity, the philosophy on which the whole Western civilization was built, viz., that a man is important in and of himself as an individual, equally important with all other men in the eyes of God; that a man is not just an animal of flesh, blood, and bone, but a complicated individual, containing a spirit, a spirit which is linked with a spiritual life wherein
God -<l wells, an individual with a divine spark, who can commune with the spiritual world by means of s prayer, inspiration, and revelation. So every man is important in his, individual way, but along with his importance he carries grave responsibilities.
It was this idea of a man's being important as an individual and responsible for his own welfare economically, mentally, and spiritually, unanalyzed and unrecognized, which rose like a great tidal wave, moving men westward across unchartered seas and unknown continents, and which reached its pinnacle in the great surge which was the Latter-day Saint movement.
That is the key girder in our social structure, the intangible rod on which our strength as a people rests.
Our forefathers were industrious in every sense of the word. They believed in work as a virtue, as a solace for sorrow, as a means
Page 429

430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— JULY 1952 of progress. They who left fine and would never have considered homes of luxury, beauty, and con- violating in order to be popular or venience, set about building with a good sport, a jolly good fellow, their own hands homes in the wil- They knew that a man can be derness of whatever materials the idealistic and decent and have very wilderness and their own hands enjoyable living, could provide. They worked with their hands wherever necessary and THHEY were a loyal people— loyal felt dignified by their labor. to their faith, their leaders, their Another girder was their living, group, and to each other, but above acting bwtheihood. They co-oper- all loyal to their ideals. Theirs was ated for their safety and their prog- no gangster loyalty— they did not ress, they co-operated in small condone evil-doing. To love a groups, for love, to help a stricken friend is one thing, to uphold him or needy brother. They were neigh- in crime and sin quite another, bors in actuality in their everyday Their disapproval of wrongdoing living, giving and accepting help; was a powerful social weapon, and but no man demanded it as his no man excused his evil deeds by right. pointing to lax custom. Men do
They had courage— not only the not die for intangibles, as our forecourage to face the wilderness, fathers did, and then tremble in hardship, privation, illness, and fear of losing the companionship death, but courage to be different of a loose-living associate. Honor when that difference to them meant was something to uphold, a warm righteousness. A great deal of their and comforting thing. Their loyalty physical courage, it could be argued, was built on integrity. A public was the instinct to survive. But duty was a sacred trust, not a means they could have survived singly had for private favor and profit, they deserted their faith and their Our ancestors built with humilpeople and returned to the world ity. For all their sureness of a that had renounced them. Such man's individual importance it was was inconceivable to them. An in- an importance linked with man's dividual of that caliber does not responsibility in the upbuilding of renounce what he believes, what he God's kingdom. An individual was knows, in which he rejoices, in or- important in that he was subject to der to be physically comfortable, no other man's will, body, or soul.
They were following something He had his own free agency, and within their hearts which was great- the kingdom of God was far-off and er than comfort, greater than lux- needed much, and our ancestors ury, greater than security. They had a fair idea of the smallness of were following a warm and living man. They were wise. And a wise light, and they had the courage to man knows that however hard a suffer for it. man studies, however much a man
Their courage throve as well on learns, he has still much to learn in everyday fare as it had in the great relation to perfection, and he emergency. They had certain ideals knows little indeed if he does not of conduct which they followed, know how little he does know.

GIRDERS OF STRENGTH 431
They were studious, forever seek- equipment which does many of ing knowledge, and created an in- their mundane tasks, cannot be exstitution of higher learning within pected to react in all ways as people five years of their entry into the did when they were face to face
Salt Lake Valley, but they were with the earth in all they did. But never arrogant and overly proud we still need the strong girders that of their learning. went into the building of our social structure, or the structure itself
AND our pioneers knew their wiH fall. Brick and stone, even responsibilities as parents. They nuggets of gold, are not enough, were aware of the importance of and will not stand by themselves discipline in the structure of hu- alone, man happiness. To them obedience was the first law of life. With- A civilization is more than autoout obedience they would have mobiles, modern furniture, picperished on the plains. They were ture windows, easy working hours, too near their experience of being high wages, electrical equipment, face to face with death to have for- college degrees, and beautiful cloth gotten the position of discipline in ing. A civilization is built on ideals the scheme of human living. They for which people will die because knew that a child's feeling of se- they mean more than life itself, curity needs a certain sureness that Our civilization was built by our right will be approved and reward- martyrs, not by the Falstaffs, who ed and evil will be exposed and found "discretion the better part righted. of valor." It was built by our Every parent among them was heroes, living and dead, not by charged with the responsibility of those who "fight and run away." guiding his children in the ways of If we have not courage, individual righteousness and happiness. His courage, to live by our ideals, even was often a gentle hand, but it was if at the moment we are left lonenever a hand that hesitated to guide ly, we shall find ourselves in the end a child around dangerous shoals be- lonely indeed. If we have not viscause of a half-digested theory that ion, the long view, to strive for the somebody had read recently or distant goal, we shall lose what the heard in a lecture. They knew the past has gained for us. If we trade value of struggle and did not over- our loyalty to righteousness for protect their children. loyalty to the gang, we have tied our Progress must take its course, kite to a very short string and will People living in crowded cities, never soar. with modern conveniences, modern If we lose our sense of responsicomforts, and luxuries, traveling in bility we have lost all. No society various conveyances, all of them ever corrects the faults, errors, sins, rapid, buying fruits and vegetables and crimes which it condones. in paper bags, bathing in hot water When we say, "We've always had as many times daily as suits their graft," or "Well, everyone else is habits, washing clothes automatical- doing it," we are simply shrugging ly, using electrical and gas-run off our responsibilities. To admit

432 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— JULY 1952 an evil makes doing something analysis? Nothing is so futile as about it imperative. We don't undirected labor. The pioneers had want the feeling of guilt which good leadership, their labor had a comes of admitting wrong and do- pattern. Nothing is so destructive ing nothing about it. We lack the as misdirected labor. It takes labor courage and stamina to face the to plan and execute a robbery, but unpleasant task of cleaning it up, it makes no wealth. Labor, then, if we deny or excuse it, or give it is one of many factors that weld sanction by claiming that it is wide: into the making of wealth. Bespread and so acceptable. cause most 0f the others are intan-
No social structure ever stood gible, it is easy to fail to see them high and strong without the girder and to realize their importance, of responsibility; and the history of There are factors, such as vision to the rise and fall of civil