[A Message in Action by Maggie Tolman Porter]

A Message In Action Maggie Tolman Porter ARA Matthews walked_briskly the three blocks to meet her Relief Society visiting teacher companion, Sister Reva Norris, who had called earlier and made the appointment that morning.

"How long have I kept you waiting?" panted Sara, as she came up to their appointed meeting place.

"Only a few minutes. I've just caught up with my breath. I was afraid you'd be waiting for me," laughed Sister Norris.

"If it weren't for one place," said Sara Matthews as they both lingered in the shade of the elm tree, "I would enjoy these visits immensely."

"Meaning where?" queried her companion, knowing very well what the answer would be, for she, too, dreaded that certain visit.

"Sister Allen's, of course. She has resented our visits ever since Brother Allen met his death in that terrible car accident."

"I know," answered Sara. "Last time she was worse than the month before. I wonder if it could be anything personal?"

"No, I don't think it could be that. I've heard she treats everyone who visits her the same, cool way. Remember, last time she didn't even turn down the radio."

"And she left the room when you were giving the message, and..."

"Yes, but her children were quarreling and fussing like a battle royal was going on. Perhaps she could not come back. We never waited to see if she would return."

"Perhaps we left too soon," regretted Sara.

"Considering it all," explained the older Sister Norris, "I think we should give her credit for any doubts and have a little more faith that the Lord will help us."

"I've heard she refuses any and all offers of help or friendship. I wonder..."

"Yes, I wonder, too, just how many have really offered her comfort or assistance. I'm ashamed to admit I've never called on her, only as a Relief Society visiting teacher. I've never visited her as a neighbor and friend. Have you?"

"Just once. It was before the funeral. She was very bitter. She felt that a just God would not deprive them of all that life held dear, not while they were all striving to serve him. It was hard to reason with her about her sorrow. I think she still feels the same way," remarked Sister Norris as they leisurely went on their way.

"Let's go there first this time, and get it over. Then we will enjoy the rest of our visits," commented Sister Matthews.

"I doubt if this is the proper attitude for us, if we expect the Lord to help us. I made a special prayer for Sister Allen before I left home. I..."

"So did I, and just now I have pleaded in my heart that he will prepare her to receive our message. It's so wonderful today."

THEY paused a moment at Sister Allen's gate. A bed of scarlet zinnias was wilting in the hot August sunshine.

"Do you remember last May when we made our visit, Brother and Sister Allen were planting that very bed? He told us it was scarlet zinnias."

"Yes, and when we came in June he was gone. It must be terrible to have one's companion and father of three small children taken so suddenly."

"There was such a small insurance. I doubt if after the expenses of the funeral were paid she had much left. Little we know how she really feels... poor little mother!" Sister Matthews sighed as she opened the little gate. The lawn needed mowing and watering, they noticed, as they stepped upon the shady porch.

"Remember, it's your turn," whispered Sister Matthews.

"Yes, I know," and Sister Norris knocked gently on the front door. There was no answer. However, they could hear voices in the back part of the house.

"It would be easy to report not at home and go on to the next place," suggested Sister Matthews timidly.

"After asking the Lord to help and prepare the way for us? Oh, no, Sister Matthews. We're going to deliver our message somehow. I just don't know..."

"You are right," Sara agreed, quickly.

Slowly they walked around to the back of the house. At the open kitchen door they saw the situation at a glance. The mother was holding a sick baby under her arm, while she tried to wring clothes. The two older children, Billy—age nine—and Sue—age seven—were trying to feed the clothes into the wringer.

"Children, please. I'll do it! I'm afraid you'll..."

A gentle knock at the screen brought the family to attention. "Oh, it's you ladies! Will you please excuse me? You can see I have a sick baby. He's cried almost continually for two days and nights. I have no clean clothes for him and I just have to put out this wash."

Sister Norris and Sara walked on in without an invitation.

"Come, dear," said the older sister kindly. "Let me look at little Timmie. I have reared nine babies, and I've learned quite a bit about their illnesses."

Sister Norris decided the trouble might be an earache. She knew the doctor was out of town.

"You might try applying moist heat to his ear," she suggested.

After a few minutes the tired little sufferer settled down and fell asleep.

The worn-out mother watched Sister Norris as she put down the baby. Her eyes, too, were heavy for sleep.

"Come with me, Sister Allen. You must get some sleep while little Timmie is asleep. You are as worn out as he is. You..."

"Oh, no," Sister Allen refused quickly. "I have to get these peaches put up and the clothes finished while he rests. I've not..."

"Don't you worry, but lie down right here beside him. We will help you some way. You just for-