oVisiting CSeacher ITlessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 48—"And When Ye Shall Receive These Things, | Would Exhort You That Ye Would Ask God, the Eternal Father, in the Name of Christ, If These Things Are Not True; and If Ye Shall Ask With a Sincere Heart, With Real Intent, Having Faith in Christ, He Will Manifest the Truth of It Unto You, by the Power of the Holy Ghost" (Moroni 10:4). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, May 7, 1957 Objective: To point out that Moroni's promise is certain of fulfillment if prescribed conditions are met. THs promise made by Moroni to all who will read 'The Book of Mormon is unique. No other book carries with it such a guarantee. It is an invitation to all the world to learn of the truthfulness of The LESSON DEPARTMENT Book of Mormon and to test its validity. 'Thousands have made this test and proved the guarantee to be as purported. Yet some have read this sacred scripture and not received a testimony of its truth. Why? Because one or more of the conditions required in the promise was lacking. The heart may not have been truly sincere, the intent not real, or faith in Christ may have been weak, otherwise the result would have been to convince the investigator of the truth of The Book of Mormon given through the power of the Holy Ghost. When a chemist makes an experiment in the laboratory, he knows that certain specifications are necessary. Each step must be followed precisely and each ingredient must be added in the required amount, or the desired result will not be obtained. But if every ingredient outlined in the formula is mixed as directed, then the result will always be successful. Moreover, no true student of science attempts an experiment without an unbiased, open attitude of mind. So it is with the formula prescribed by Moroni to discover the truthfulness of The Book of Mor- 129 mon. This experiment calls for the exercise of faith as the book is read, the exercise of sincerity, and a great desire to know the truth, otherwise the Holy Ghost cannot operate in behalf of the one who reads it. Some readers of The Book of Mormon promise to try the experiment, but they feel sure beforehand that it cannot possibly be true. And so they begin the experiment with doubt in their minds. This is not the right spirit of approach. Hope and faith and an open mind are necessary for all great discoveries, material as well as spiritual. We who have read this divine book and already had the promise fulfilled, rejoice in our testimony. It rings true to our hearts and our minds, and we are indeed grateful for this "New Witness for Christ." With each rereading, the truths contained therein are made more plain, and one is persuaded to seek more diligently after the Lord. It is quite fitting that we close this series of messages with this unique promise, which has been instrumental in bringing great numbers of souls to a knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ. + Reunion Eunice ]. Miles Your deep-blue eyes, pain-free and young, Alive with eagerness and laughter, Hold hope and wonder far beyond my knowing. We seem worlds apart! The years stretching between us Cannot be spanned by living speech. But when in childish grief, You quickly run sobbing into my arms, Then, in your tear-stained face, I see the tiny girl I used to be. Work MT lecting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at