Blue Voile for Dreams Norma Wrathall T four o'clock that summer afternoon, Janet Davis pulled from the oven a pan of her famous butterscotch-pecan rolls. Little rivers of melting brown sugar crusted over the luscious mounds of nuts, and the fragrance of buttery caramel and browning yeast-raised dough drifted through the kitchen. It tantalized Janet's nostrils and her mouth became moist, for she was hungry, having eaten nothing since morning. She pressed one finger lightly into the sirup and licked it. M-m-mmshe knew that the rolls were at their crunchy best when fresh from the oven. She could eat one or two and still have enough Ieft for the bake sale next day, as promised. Almost without thought, she opened a drawer and took out a spatula. Then she flung it back, shoved the drawer shut, pushed the pan of rolls back onto the counter and covered them with a clean towel. She would not, she simply would not, eat one more sweet thing. If temptation assailed her, she had but to recall her own image in the full-length mirror at Mina Dee's Dress Shop that very forenoon. She could remember all too clearly how Maina had looked standing there, a black-sheathed blonde willow, her lips pressed into polite silence, as they both watched Jan's efforts to pull up the zipper. She could hear again the smooth little voice—''I'm so sorry, Mrs. Davis. I don't have that dress in your size." This, as Janet, having pulled up the zipper at last, stared in dismay at the bulges above her girdle. Just in time, she had stopped _ herself Page 430 from "But this is SIZE.. Jan now glanced at the clock and sighed. 'Time to start cooking another enormous dinner for her husband, Hal, and their two teen-age sons. Hal would soon be home from his work as a machinist, and the boys from her father's farm where they were working during the summer vacation. All three were as lean and muscular as race horses, and they ate like horses, too, she thought, and never gained an ounce. 'The boys were tall and rangy and tanned; Hal was tall and thick-shouldered and brown, his large face always ruddy and pleasant. Usually, Jan thought of her menfolk with affection. But this afternoon, a tiny line of annoyance was between her eyebrows. How could she diet when she was everlastingly preparing food? She decided that she would simply go all day each day without eating. Then, when night came, she could sit down and eat a reasonable amount, so that Hal and the boys would not comment. She shuddered to think of the jokes, the laughter, the remarks, if it became known that Mother was dieting. Then she thought of her sister,