Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1899 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL Nations" RETURN VISIT TO NEW ENGLAND: Laurel Hill covered with blossoms was a delight to the beholder, and buttercups, daisies and the hemlock with its gracefully sweeping boughs, and soft, young tendrils, as well as the old magnificent elms that had stood for more than a century, withstanding the storms of New England winters. There is nothing in nature perhaps dearer to the heart... Than the woods in full foliage as at this season, unless it is the sea... For it is past description and past all comparison. —Mrs. E. B. Wells LET US HAVE PEACE: Today not only our beloved nation, but the entire world is in a great commotion. War and rumor of war is extant all over the surface of the earth. Fear has taken the place of content.... No more you hear from the shop of the smith the clang of the hammer in his great brawny hands on the heated steel at the forge, accompanied by his mirthful song. No more the happy farmer sings all care away, as he gently turns the soil in preparation for the seed, and dreams a dream of contentment in anticipation of a bounteous harvest. No more the wife sings about her work preparing the frugal meal for her dear ones. All is changed! —Mrs. Josie E. Childs [An allusion, in part, to the Spanish-American Watr| "OUR GOD AND HIS PROPHET No truer friend hath Prophets known, No truer Prophet saints need seek, Than he to whom Thy mind is shown, And by whose mouth Thy voice doth speak. —L. L. Greene Richards a ea) ee Fo NEW ORGANIZATION (KNIGHTSVILLE, UTAH): Myself and Sister Daniels visited Knightsville to organize a Relief Society in that branch.... Knightsville is a pretty little nook in a rich mineral district. 'The people have nice homes, and there are many of Provo's old settlers who have had extensive experience in the Church, and will succeed in the Relief Society work. The ride in the railroad car was superb! 'The scenery in the canyon was grand! It was my first visit in the Tintic District. The following names were nominated and unanimously sustained as officers of the Relief Society: Mrs. Mary Jane Wilkins, president, Mrs. M. A. McCullough and Mrs. R. Haws, counselors; Mrs. Louise Ball, secretary.... — —Mary John TRIBUTE TO OUR WOMEN: Regarding the results [of the meeting of the Women's International Council in London], the grand consummation has been reached of welding together a cosmopolitan body of thoughtful women, prepared to educate their fellow women. 'Twenty-five years hence the leaven of today will have leavened the whole world, and the irresistible force of public opinion will have raised women to their proper sphere. —Lady Aberdeen Page 436 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, general President of Relief Society, has been appointed to the National Advisory Committee for the 10961 White House Conference on Aging. The appointment came from Dr. Arthur S. Fleming, Secretary of the Health, Education, and Welfare Department. ) President Spafford, also, was recently elected Second Vice-President of the National Association for Practical Nurse Education. She had previously served as a member of the National Board of this organization. Mss MARGARET MEACHER, the new Canadian Ambassador to Jerusalem, presented her credentials to the Chief of State in the presence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Golda Meir. These credentials were signed by Queen Elizabeth II. 'This is the first time in history that a British monarch has accredited a woman to head a diplomatic post. LOUISE LOCKRIDGE WATKINS, director of the George Walter Smith Art Museum in Springfield, Massachusetts, is the only woman in New England to hold such a position.