Jewels for the Sable Marian Gardner Nielson HE colorful ritual of jelly making was indispensable in those early days on White Mesa. All the martied women — and some of the about-to-be-married-women—quietly plotted their jelly campaigns during the long winter months, when they sat knitting or carding wool in front of the fireplace. The sweet-swelling pine odor from the burning logs heightened their memories of last fall's jelly spree. Recipes were chosen, discussed, remodeled, discarded. How many grape leaves did Grandma Palmer cook with her grapes? Did Charlotte Ann use three-fourths cup of sugar to one of juice in her Paradise quince jelly recipe? Were the Red Astrachan apples Brother Burnham used to bring in from Red Mesa, better jelly apples than the ones grown on Mancos Creek? Why, Mary Jane actually used an old metal spoon to test her jelly, instead of the one Andrew Peterson whittled out of a cedar limb for her! Aunt Mary enjoyed making jelly. She liked the deep purple glow of the Concord grape jelly, the delicate pink of the crab apples from Brother Mac's huge tree, the more sturdy rose sheen from her own sour cherties, the deep carmine of the tart English currants from the bushes under the hill at the ranch. All these familiar fruits and berries were old friends, easy to relax with while turning them _ into jeweled jellies and jams. But the juice from the wild berries and fruits was the challenge; its subtle flavor was enhanced by its Page 448 pure, delicate coloring and fragrant aroma which filled the kitchen and tiptoed into the rest of the house. It was a golden fall day when Aunt Suzy and Aunt Tamar took their lunch in the old wicker picnic basket they had brought with them' from Old Mexico, and drove up to the Blue Mountain. They spent the afternoon picking the dull, marble-sized, purple-black chokeberries from the fragrant bushes. 'They salvaged a small bucket of late serviceberries which were tucked in under a clump of gnarled oakbrush. It was fun standing on the sides of the old wagon and reaching high for the frosty-red Potawatami plums which hung so temptingly almost out of reach. Then, on the way down from the mountain, they stopped at the old Hans Bogue field and found a whole patch of groundcherries—plump, pale-yellow, and ready for picking— and just right for a batch of delicately colored preserves, A Navajo squaw, Young Edith Begay, helped Aunt Eliza pick the black currants from the bushes at the back of the house. She sat cross-legged on the ground under the cool branches, and scraped the currants, leaves, bugs, and all into her tin pail, When Aunt Eliza admonished Edith to pick them cleaner, the squaw very conveniently could not understand English, and only settled her heavy body more firmly into the ground. Uncle Jense Nielson took a wagonload of youngsters down to Bluff to gather the bullberries from the few JEWELS FOR THE TABLE bushes hiding against the red cliffs in Cow Canyon. He had bragged so much about the bullberry jelly his mother used to make, and the children had coaxed so hard to go, that the weary mothers breathed sighs of relief when the heavy wagon, loaded with bedrolls, grub boxes, and shouting children rumbled away down the county road. They did pick the berries, although the bushes were not so heavily loaded as Jense remembered them when the "Hole-in-the-Rockers" first came to Bluff. Still, the containers were nearly filled. In the course of the day, Susan and Helena climbed up into one of the caves where they had picked cliff flowers the spring before, and then were too scared to come down and Deb's shirt got caught while going through the crack in the Locomotive Rock, and part of it was left hanging on a rock splinter. It was the children who helped wash the berries, but it took young Frank Redd to invent a machine to sort the "pee-wees" from the good ones. Aunt Lou had to put a stop to that, when the berries all came through the machine mashed to a pulp! HILE the jelly was in the process of being made, everything else stopped. Neighbors did not visit; quilt blocks were left untouched; buttons were not sewed on; torn overalls and shirts continued to be worn; houses became cluttered; lamps were not cleaned and polished, nor were wicks trimmed; dirty dishes were stacked out of the way (an unheard of event except at this time). A hodgepodge of crocks, odds and ends of bottles, 449 chipped but unbroken, were placed on the kitchen table. Then the crucial time of skimming, testing, tasting, came. Children stayed outdoors, careful to avoid making any undue noise. Husbands found work away from the tense atmosphere, or met on the store porch and exchanged small talk. But the result was worth every effort! A beautiful mosaic was formed with the sun shining through the various colored jellies: the cool green of mint, the sparkling gold of quince and groundcherry, the warm pink and red tones of currants, crabapples, and raspberry, the deep regal glow of grape, plum, and wild berry. Each woman made more jelly than she needed for her own household. 'There would be sickness, where a few jars would help ease a crisis. 'here would be church bazaars and special gifts for guests who would appreciate a delicacy. Then there was stake conference time and week-end guests from all over the stake: Bluff, Mancos, Red Mesa, Monticello, and Moab. Aunt Mary put her groundcherry preserves in her best cut glass tumblers, and Aunt Eliza used her mothers green hobnail glasses for her Concord grape jelly, for these two women entertained the apostles during the conference week end, and they wanted the very best and most beautiful things on their tables. It was this colorwheel of glowing beauty that gave luster to frontier life. It was the basis of friendliness and love. It bound the pioneer women to nature and the glories of God, and may be sparkling jewels in their crowns of immortality.