[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for April - Lesson IV - Social Service]
GUIDE  LESSONS  115 
The  clouds  of  error  disappear 
Before  the  rays  of  truth  divine : 
The  glory  bursting  from  afar, 
Wide  o'er  the  nations  soon  will  shine." 
"Lead,  Kindly  Light"  is  one  of  the  literary  gems  of  Christ- 
ian, hymnology.  The  religious  passion  or  feeling  is  at  high 
water  mark,  while  the  imagery  is  apt  and  most  delicate.  This 
hymn,  sung  at  President  William  McKinley's  funeral  service, 
is  said  to  have  been  his  favorite  hymn. 
QUESTIONS   AND    PROBLEMS 
1.  Have  the  hymn  read  in  its  entirety  to  the  class.  Have  it 
sung  sometime  during  the  meeting. 
2.  Is  tlie  word  "Light"  in  the  title  used  in  a  literal  or 
figurative  sense? 
3.  Select  the  words  and  phrases  of  the  hymn  that  are 
indicative  of  mental  struggle. 
4.  The  terms  "Church  of  England,"    "Established  church 
"Anglican    church,"    and    "Episcopal    church"    are    terms    used 
to  identify  the  state  church  in  England.     Which,  terms  are  most 
commonly  used'  in  America?    Have  some  English  convert  or  de- 
scendant of  some  English  convert  tell  the  class  which  terms  ar 
most  commonly  used  in  England. 
4.  What  church  do  people  have  in  mind  when  they  speak 
of  the  mother  church? 
6.  Prove  from  the  experience  of  these  men  that  "the  wis- 
dom and  the  wise  shall  perish." 
7.  How  did  Joseph  Smith  obtain  his  knowledge  concerning 
Cod  and  spiritual  things? 
LESSON  IV 
Social  Service. 
(Fourth  Week  in  April) 
HEALTH  EDUCATION  AND  THE  HOME  . 
In  Lesson  III  we  discussed  the  significance  of  health  to 
husband  and  father,  wife  and  mother.  In  the  present  lesson  we 
shall  consider  the  problems  of  health  education,  or  the  problem 
of  health  as  it  concerns  the  prospective  husbands  and  fathers, 
wives  and  mothers.  Obviously  the  task  of  convincing  youth  of 
the  significance  of  conserving  their  physical  vitality  and  develop- 
ing healthy  and  strong  bodies  is  quite  as  important  as  that  of 
educating  ourselves  as  parents  in  this  matter,  and  certainly  more 
difficult.