[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: World's Destiny in Hands of U. S.]

World's Destiny in Hands of U. S. Two courses lie before the United States, the one leading to the next war of inconceivable ends; the other to the greatest "place any nation has ever held in history. Will Irwin, war "correspondent, author and lecturer, told the members of the Bonneville club and their ladies at their dinner at the © Hotel Utah, Jan. 14, 1922. Mr. Irwin did not mince his words. He spoke cold truths. His picture of the next war was not pretty, and was received by his audience with silence akin to a shudder. But his view - of the alternative was welcomed with the applause of real relief. Mayor Neslen introduced the toastmaster, G. A. Marr, to probably the largest number of guests at a Bonneville club dinner. Mr. Marr made brief work of his introduction, while the speaker himself launched directly into his subject, one new to most western ears, and told of things which are current in only the highest councils. AIRPLANES DANGEROUS The present disarmament conference, Mr. Irwin declared, has averted a war in the Pacific, towards which we were bound headlong in the competitive building of battleships, now tempo rarily halted. And while, he added, the conference has not accomplished all that many had hoped, it has made the first step; it has proved the first skirmish of the war against war. "Tn the next war," Mr. Irwin said. "The initial step, almost the declartion of war. The aggressive nation will send airplanes in overwhelming forces equipped with bombs calculated to wipe the capital of the rival nation off the face of the earth. "Every army chief in Europe and in this country knows this to be a fact. Colonel J. C. Fuller of the royal British tank corps was awarded a gold medal for the most valuable contribution to military science for a year for a paper in which he made this statement, saying that the purpose of war now is to enforce a will upon an entire nation;'no longer simply the destruction of an army. He told how gas will be the weapon of the next war and how gas can be propelled against the wind. ANCIENT CODE DISCARDED "Major General Swinton, largely responsible for the develop-  ment of the tank in the last war, approved this forecast. He it is who said, 'We must learn to kill by wholesale.' "The next war will be between every force, every power there is in nations. In this last war the lid went off for women: the whole code of civilized warfare which had been built up since the days of the barbarians was discarded. "Tn the first two weeks of the war the Germans violated the code when they bombed Paris. In the following fortnigh Britain put in its food blockade against Germany, thus indirectly if not directly making war on noncombatants. "Week -by week in the war we who were there to see watched the articles of the code of civilized warfare go one by one until the whole had been shattered. "By the need of the last war every function of the nation was working for the purposes of war. From the beginning of 1918 the weakest baby just born became just as much the target for war as the most stalwart man in the lines. BRAINS ENTER CONFLICT "Prior to the late war the military industry had fallen behind the industries of peace in their development. The military mind is not inventive, not creative. The best weapon Napoleon had in 1814 with which to kill men was cannon, somewhat improved, but yet the cannon. "The last war brought brains into this business of killing. It brought to bear all the inventive genius 'of trained technical men. All the resources of the laboratory and the mind. The first-class minds, theretofore devoted to the arts of peace, were in the last year devoted to finding means of killing. "A turning point in world history came on April 22, 1915. It was on that day that the Germans loosed their first gas attack. If they had loosed the gas at fifty places that day instead of one. They would have won the war. "Within twenty-four hours, however, samples of that chienine gas had been sent to England for analysis. Within three days the first gas masks were a the lines. TERRIBLE GAS INVENTED "Then the Germans tried mustard gas, attaking the body. "Before the war ended the Americans had great piles of mystery shells behind the lines. These shells were filled with Lewisite gas. I tell you truly what the properties of this gas are. This gas is invisible; it sinks into the ground; it has fiftyfive times the spread of other gases; it is deadly, attacking both the skin and the lungs. Twelve aeroplanes loaded with bombs WORLD'S DESTINY IN HANDS OF U. S.. 89 might in one night with this gas kill all life and vegetation in the city of Berlin. "Experiments with bacilla and by light rays provide a frightfully fruitful field in the study of how to kill. The Americans were planning, for instance, to blast the whole German wheat crop of 1919 with a blight dropped from the air. "In 1920 we discovered that modern preparations for war were costing three times as much'as the preparations for war before 1913, because war had been brought up to a mechanical date. Tanks, for instance, at $2500 each, replace the cavalry where a horse costs $150.. "So the conference on the limitation of armaments was called. We who have followed these things were a bit skeptical We saw the old lot of poker-playing European statesmen at Washington. For the United States, we saw Underwood, a politician; Root, a good deal of a poker player himself; Hughes an unknown quality because, as then untried in international affairs; and Lodge—Lodge, who for the past thirty years has not engaged in the dangerous pastime of thought. OPPORTUNITY IS AMERICA'S "The world was surprised when the Hughes proposals were presented. They made a very fine thing in keeping with the best traditions of American diplomacy. It has averted a ver nasty war we were headed for in the Pacific. "Ts not the present conditions among nations international anarchy with no morals among nations? You talk about our splendid isolation. The world is getting too close. When something very important happens in Salt Lake it has its repercussion in Nancy, France. "We stand at a very solemn parting of the ways. Whichsoever way we go there can be no turning back. One way leads into a comety of nations, call it what you will, give credit for it tc whom you will, even Lodge. The delusion of history has been that national greatness exists with bigness. What did Rome contribute, the Holy Roman Empire, Spain, in its hour of glory: "But the United States can be known throughout history as the first nation, which, having the power of a giant, refused to use that power as might a giant. "We can be blessed through all history as the nation which preferred not to dwell in the tawdry temples of empire, but in a house builded with hands."