[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: William Fowler]

William Fowler Author of 'We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet"' Of peculiar interest at this time, when articles are being published upon the authors of old Latter-day Saints hymns, is the appended communication, signed by the grandson of William Fowler, who wrote that most universal of all hymns used in "Mormon" services, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." The material for this sketch was obtained for us by John F. Fowler, nephew of the poet, who takes care of the elevator in our Bishop's Building. That the author of this widely sung selection was a man of great mental and physical powers, there can be no doubt, and that his service to his Church was heartfelt and sincere there has never been question. A peculiar fact in connection with his life is the journal he faithfully kept, inscribed in a certain style of shorthand.. This journal is in the possession of his family, but up to the present time no one has been found who is able to read the symbols of the system in which he recorded his personal history. The communication follows: "In the Christmas edition of the Deseret News there appeared articles on authors of some of the famous Church hymns. We wish here to correct some errors, and enlarge upon facts concerning William Fowler, the author of 'We thank thee, O God, for a prophet,' which a search in his journals has brought to light. "Most of his journals were written in shorthand, he having used a system that today is not in use. No doubt many interesting incidents of missionary experience, etc., could be related, if some one could be found who is familiar with the symbols of this system. "His father, Richard Fowler, was a British soldier, sent to Australia in the service of his country, taking his wife, Bridget, (of Irish descent) along. While there, on May 9, 1830, William was born. "When the little boy was 314 years old they went to East India to remain for five years, at the expiration of which time Richard Fowler was discharged. They then returned to England, settling in Sheffield, where Richard died after two years. His wife followed him three and a half years later, leaving William an orphan at 14 years of age. "His parents belonged to the Wesleyan faith. He first heard the gospel in 1848. Accepting the truth, he was baptized July 29, 1849, by J. V. Long, and ordained a priest on March 3, 1851, under the hands of Elders J. V. Long, Robbins, Roper and Mor- 76, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ris. During the same month he was appointed to do missionary work which he continued for four years. "In 1858 he was ordained an elder by Isaac Able and Ralph Harrison, and in 1854 he married Ellen Bradshaw of Sheffield. He seemed to have been endowed abundantly with talent, especially in music, literature, and handicraft. There are now in the family a pair of razors which give evidence that he was very proficient in his trade as a cutler. "The hymn for which he is noted is by no means his only composition. A splendid violin and a piccolo of which he is said to have been master, are now in the possession of his only son, and they are prized very highly. The violin still makes music in the hands of his son and grandson. "With his wife and three children he emigrated to Utah, leaving London, June 4, 1863, and arriving in Salt Lake City Oct. 3 of the same year. The family finally located at Manti, Utah. "His ability to continue the work on this earth he so well began was soon ended, as has been the case with so many brave hearts; he gave his life for his religion. He contracted a cold while crossing the plains, which turned to consumption and finally resulted in his death Aug., 1865, being then only 35 years of age. His body now rests in the Manti cemetery. His three children, Harriet Fowler Allen, of Victor, Idaho; H. A. Fowler, of Huntington, Utah; and Florence Fowler Adair, of Salt Lake City; are yet living, and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren bear his name.