DEAR EDITOR:
     I feel quite guilty in neglecting to write for
our paper for so long a time.  It has not been 
because I had not a desire to help maintain
[column 2]
our paper, the rights of the women of Utah,
or the principles of the Gospel.  I am fully
aware of the necessity there is of every one be-
ing alive to their duties, and it is the duty of
every one who bears the name of Latter-day
Saint, to show their faith by their works, and
always be willing to use the talents the Lord
has given them for the benefit of the cause of
truth.
     We are living in a momentous time of the
world's history, and we cannot shut our eyes to
the fact that the end is fast approaching a con-
summation.  The events that are taking place
day by day, demonstrate beyond a doubt, that 
the Lord is working out His designs in His own
way; and the question with us is, "Are we pre-
pared?  Have we oil in our lamps?  Do we
realize the magnitude of the responsibility rest-
ing upon us as Saints?  Do we keep up with
the spirit of the times, or are we asleep, using
our time, energy, and talents in folly and
fashion?"  The exigency of the times calls for 
all the energies of the Saints to be concentrated
upon their religion, and the maintenance of
what few rights we have left.
     The rulers of the nation have seen fit to de-
prive us of the right of FRANCHISE, because we
did not fulfill their expectations in catering to
their ideas, but used our right, as free born
women should, for the establishment of pure
principles, of equal rights, of a virtuous com-
munity, and the selection of men for office that
would secure to us these heaven-born principles.
They preferred no charge against us, but took
from us this right without giving us the
chance to defend ourselves, the right perserva-
tive of all other rights, because of our opinions.
And will we submit?  Yes, under protest, leav-
ing our cause in the Almighty ruler's hand,
knowing He will deal out justice and equity
to all.  We claim that it is unconstitutional;
we claim that we have a right to our belief
untramelled.
     The Constitution plainly states that "the
FRANCHISE once given cannot be taken away;"
it becomes our property, a part of our posses-
sions, and the loss of it deprives us of what
was our own individually. One must prove a
person guilty of treason before he or she can
constitutionally be deprived of this right.  And
in what does treason consist?  "In levying war,
or giving aid and comfort to the enemies of the
United States."  Senators and statesmen of a 
great nation must be terrible cowards to be
afraid that the women of Utah would "levy
war against the United States."  Oh, consist-
ency, thou art a jewel!
     We find, by referring to the law, that all
persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof,
are citizens of the United States, and that no 
law shall be made to deprive them of life,
liberty or property, or the equal protection of 
the law."  What a falling away from the spirit
and design of the Constitution!  We revere
that sacred document as heaven born; we be-
lieve the men that formed it were inspired of
God to do just what they did, and we will
teach our sons and daughters to love it, to de-
fend it, and let freedom and equal rights be
their watchword.  We will teach them that
every man and woman are born free and equal;
that God, the Father of their spirits, made
them free; that the Constitution makes them
free, and that the Gospel makes them free, and
that they are the slaves of no faction, but inde-

[column 3]
pendent, with the right to worship God in the
way that he marks out.
     How like to olden times is the present.
Then it was a band of pilgrims flying from the
arbitrary rule of the Stuarts--a band of hum-
ble and peaceable religionists flying from cause-
less oppression!  It was conscience attempting 
to escape from arbitrary despotism, a Robinson,
a Brewster, leading of a little band from their 
native soil to find a shelter in an unknown land,
where they could enjoy religious freedom.  How
like to the little band of Saints who left their 
homes in the east, driven from state to state,
until they were driven beyond the confines of
the United States, and when, after surmounting 
untold difficulties, braving a thousand dangers,
and suffering the pangs of hunger and sickness,
they found a home in these mountains, and
with their love of liberty unfurled the stars
and stripes to the breeze, and pledged their
lives, their honor, their all to defend it.  What
a noble band! when they had suffered so much
at the hands of the nation, left their loved ones
in unmarked graves on the plains, their young
children, men and maidens, grey haired fathers
and mothers deprived of their homes and pos-
sessions, and driven at the point of the gun in-
to the wilderness to find a home, yet they cling
to the old flag.
     And now when we have made the valley to
blossom as the rose, and this barren waste a
fruitful field, they would take our all.  We,
like the Pilgrim Fathers, put our trust in our
Father, the Supreme Ruler, knowing He will
defend our rights and deal out justice and
equity to all.  We know that God lives, and
that He has revealed Himself to man in this 
day, and we know we have seen His power
made manifest, and make bold to declare it to
all nations, and if we obey His laws we shall
be saved at the last day; we have proved it to
be true, and though men may deride and scoff,
yet we still know that it is the power of God
unto salvation to all that believe, and con-
demnation to those who reject it.
     Praying for the success of our paper, the
EXPONENT of the rights of the women of
Utah,  I am, 
     Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
					S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co.


