NOTES AND NEWS.
	A. Bronson Alcott will spend the summer
with his daughter, Mrs. Pratt, at Melrose,
Mass.  He is no longer able to hold a pen, and
does all his work by dictation.

	In the Exhibition of the Royal Academy
of Arts, London, of the paintings and sculp-
tures over 1,900 in number, 242 are the works
of women. It is only fifteen years, since women
artists were admitted to the Royal Academy.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe emphatically
denies the story which is circulating to the ef-
fect that she could never have written "Uncle
Tom's Cabin" if she had known the colored
people as she knows them now; after a resi-
dence at the South.

	Lillian Whiting says "The time is almost
gone by for the discussion of whether women
want or do not want the ballot. They will
have it whether they desire it or not. And
the true wisdom is to study to find how to use


this extension of power, that is sure to come
in the near future(?).

	Miss Agnata Ramsay, of Girton College, has
been awarded the first rank classics at Cam-
bridge, England. She has surpassed all the
male students in classics, being the only one of
either sex to pass in the first division. Her
father, Sir James Ramsay, a Scotch baronet,
and her uncle, Professor George Ramsay, of
Glasgow University, each obtained a first-class
in classics when they took their degrees at Ox-
ford. Miss Ramsay has just reached twenty
years,and several her male competitors were
older. Her proficiency in Latin and Greek
were equal.

	In Cuba a woman never loses her maiden
name. After marriage she adds her husband's
name to her own. In being spoken of she is
always called by her Christian and maiden 
names. To a stranger it is often quite a task
to find out whose wife a woman is. Never hear-
ing the wife called by the husband's name, one
naturally does not associate them together.
The children take the names of both parents,
but place the mother's name after the father's

	Mrs. Abba Goold Woolson recently read a
treatise on "The American Woman Abroad
and at Home," before the Lasell Alumnae Asso-
ciation, in which she ridiculed "our fashionable
women in aspiring to the ways and manners of
Ehglish women by  fearing to move in their
native land without a chaperone." The Bos-
ton Home Journal says: "Mrs. Woolson does 
not need a chaperone, but there are a great
many women and girls who do need sensible
female guardians  to keep them from making
themselves ridiculous."

	Mrs. Julia Smith, of Glastonbury, Conn.,
bequeathed the famous Jersey cows to her hus-
band, but gave to Mrs. Jane H. Spafford, of
the Riggs House, Washington, "my silk bed-
quilt, containing 7,000 pieces; to Mrs. James
Noble, of Westfield, Mass., the Wallingford
table-cloth, without a seam, spun by myself 
and sister, and the one hundred and twenty
years old bed-quilt of dimity, made by my
grandmother before her marriage, who spun
and wove the lining and quilted the same."


