	TRIALS AND TEMPTATIONS.

	It is an indisputable fact that we, as a people,
are being tried, and that our trials will increase
instead of diminish; and also, that we are sur-
rounded with temptations of almost every
name and nature. Our fathers having had re-
vealed unto them the principles of life and
salvation, saw the necessity of putting into
practice what they knew God had commanded;
and for so doing they and their doctrine came
in contact with religious bigots and the many
contaminating influences that were fast bring-
ing mankind down to a state of degradation
that is past all redemption.
	There always has and always will be a con-
fliction between truth and error. Holy men of
God in days gone by have been tried and per-
secuted for standing up in defense of truth, and 
in many instances have laid down their lives
for the sake of that same truth that we, as a
people, are being tried and persecuted for. 
	Because of our religion we were driven into
these once western wilds, and, as has been said,
“we came willingly, because we had to.” And
after having made the desert to blossom as the 
[Column 2]
rose, we are again infested with the same de-
grading influence. We have those among us
who are not for us, who are ready and willing
to oppose us in everything we undertake to
do that would be for the benefit and advance- 
ment of the human family. And here we
have saloons, where spirituous drinks are dealt
out to all, both old and young, who will degrade
themselves by going there and partaking there-
of. And also places for gambling are to be
found in those dens or saloons, and there the
unsuspecting youth are persuaded to indulge,
to give way to these evil desires. And there
profanity is indulged in, and becomes a common
thing with those who resort there. Now, the
question naturally arises, “Why are these evils
and wicked practices carried on in Zion among
the honest in heart?” I am willing to acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in all things. The
Lord has said that He would have a tried peo-
ple.
	The older portion of the community have
been tried in many ways, and it is necessary
that the younger portion be tried else. If we
do not taste the bitter we will not be able to
appreciate the sweet. If we had no tempta-
tions we would have no trials, and therefore
the word of the Lord would not be fulfilled.
If we are particularly weak on some particular
point, that is just where we are going to be
tried; so it behooves us to be on our guard, and
ever watch and pray that we will not be tried
more than we will be able to bear. “Blessed is
he that overcometh.” We should strive with
all our might, minds and strength to overcome
and rid ourselves of all our weaknesses and
imperfections. When Alexander the Great
had conquered the world, it is said that he sat
down and wept because there were no other
countries and kingdoms for him to subdue. But,
alas! he who was the master of the world, at
whose feet kings and nobles lay prostrate, he
who was esteemed the greatest and grandest
goneral living, failed to accomplish that all
important fete, and that was to master himself,
thus losing the commendation of all wise men,
“That he who governs himself is greater than
he who taketh a city.” He who will resist evil
temptations and overcome his weaknesses is
the persou whom the Lord will bless, sustain
and be pleased to own. And being surrounded
with so many Satanic influences it is our duty
to heed the injunction of the Apostle Paul,
when he says, “Above all, take unto yourselves
the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able
to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.”
And always remember that the tender, warning
voice of our guardian angels are ever striving
to hush the siren tones of the tempting world.
	I pray that we, as young people in Israel,
may be able to understand our true situations,
and that we may put on the whose armor of
God, and walk uprightly before Him in all
things, and I know that the time will come
when it will be said, “The victory is ours.
Truth hath prevailed.  		A. CAZIER.
	Nephi.


You cannot read history, unless you read it
upside down, without admitting that woman,
cramped, fettered, excluded, degraded as she
has been, has yet sometimes, with one ray of
her instinctive genius, done more to settle great
questions than all the cumbrous intellect of
the other sex has achieved.—Wendell Phillips.
	Poetry reveals to us the loveliness of nature
brings back the freshness of youthful feeling,
revives the relish of simple pleasures, keeps
unquenched the enthusiasm which warmed the
springtime of our being, refines youthful love,
strengthens our interest in human nature by
vivid delineations of its tenderest and softest
feelings, and through the brightness of its
prophetic visions helps faith to lay hold on the
future life.-—Channing.


