OBITUARY.

	We, the sisters of the Mantua Relief Society, Box Elder
Stake, Utah, have formed Resolutions in behalf of our de-
parted sister and president, Margretta Keller, who de_
parted this life on June 19th, 1887. She was born the 27th
of February, 1836, in Veibj, Frederikborg, Amt, Denmark,
and embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints June 24th, 1854; emigrated to Utah in the year of
1855; endured the toil and hardships of eleven months
travel; was married in the year 1856, and raised nine child-
ren, of whom two have gone before her. She was chosen
President of the R. S. April 26, 1874, and has held that
position as a faithful Saint ever since, and nothing but
sickness prevented her from attending her meetings.
	We now bid farewell to our leader and sister, Margretta
Keller, that now is called home to our Father to rest from
this world's labor and toil; home to a better place of rest
and peace. The Lord saw thy work done here on earth,
thou hast remained true in life, wast a comfort to the poor,
a help to the sick and a leader to us all.
	As our President we miss thee in our association, but the
Lord had a better place for thee to work in. Thou hast
suffered extreme pain with great patience, thy prayers and
desires were to thy God; thy faith in Him was great and
steadfast, for it was built upon a rock.
	Thou art missed by thy husband and children—thou wert
a loving and faithful mother, and an example thou hast
been to thy sisters, virtuous, merciful and righteous in thy
dealings; known for thine energy and plainness. It will al-
ways be remembered by the sisters of the Mantua Relief
Society, and thou art now numbered among the blessed.
	In the days of sorrow the Father took thee; thou hast
conquered strife, and now art free. His will was done
on earth, and although we feel the loss of thee, yet in
hope we rejoice, and trust we, too, may prove faithful to
the end, that we may gain a place with thee in the
presence of our Father. Here we stand with sorrowfull
hearts by the grave of our dear President; we part, but
it is a comfort to our grief that thou hast found sweet
relief; thou feared not death, for thou hadst found favor
with thy God.
	The sisters of Mantua Relief Society.
					CHRISTINE JENSEN, First Coun.,
