LOUIE.

Like the flight of a star fell the word—thou wert gone!
And a shade crossed the heart, as a storm hides the dawn.
And, as leaves hurry past on the wings of the wind,
'Mid rain drops (and tear drops), came swift to the mind
Remembrances thronging, sweet witness to bear
Of the bliss of the past and the present's despair.
Like echoes that linger, or dreams that enthrall,
Come hovering 'round me their images all:		
The gentle, sweet kindness to youth and to age,
To the lowly and needy—ah! tears dim the page;
The voice whose sweet purity, bird-like and clear,
Sank deep in the soul as we listened to hear;
The pictures that grew 'neath thy pencil to view,
Still speak of thy spirit's work, lovely and true.
If I look through thy home thou art gone yet art there,
And the silent keys wait for thy voice on the air.
Nay, these rooms are not empty when one we have known,
Though invisible, still lingers here 'mid her own;
Where a loved one hath been, there forever remains
That spirit’s communion 'mid memory’s pains.

How often in reverie have I recalled
One night amid friends, Louie, fairest of all,
Sang tenderly, purely, one song whose refrain—
Was’t prophetic of after years' trial and pain?
Sad words for young lips: "’Twas the voice of her God,
"I love thee, I love thee I pass under the rod.”
And another—a song of fair Italy’s own—
How it rose from thy lips in love’s full, richest tone:
Did it whisper again when night shadowed thy soul
And lonely—"Should doubts my heart control?”

Love decked all thy years with its tenderest care,
Graces, virtues and gifts made thy womanhood fair;
Where music and footlights their votaries drew,
Thy soul’s living melody thrilled them anew;
But the rapture is hushed and the sweet voice is stilled,
The measure of life and its triumphs are filled. 

Where the wonders and beauty and wealth of the world
In bounty are lavished, in splendor unfurled,
Where the beat of the ocean throbbed back to her soul,
Where the billows of God in their majesty rolled.
Thy soul waited and watched. Lo ! across the white sand
The sun threw a path to the Wonderful Land,
O’er the billows of sorrow that washed the long beach
A form seemed to come and a hand seemed to reach;
O, sweeter and surer than earth love's dear tone
The call and the promise that made thee His own;
Far away from the wavering paths that we tread,
To where bliss never fades, where tears never are shed,
The messenger led, 'til thy feet once more trod
'Mid welcomes—the home of the Father and God.

Ah ! this picture I hold, which the magical sun
Caught and kept of thy face, of its charms only one;
Yet it lives as I gaze, till I see thee again,
Ever changing in beauty. as thought changed, and then 
Those eyes seem to answer—as reading me through—
The heart never questions the friend that is true. 
O, its calmness and beauty half chide as I dream,
For the lips wear their smiles, and the loving eyes beam
With faith, hope and charity steadfast and sure,
Sweet tokens that halo the heart that is pure.
Thou wert beautiful here, thou art lovelier there,
Thy cross laid aside, thy crown now to wear.

Farewell! 'til we meet, oft will memory bring
To the door of my heart on the night’s silent wing,
Sweet dreamy cadences, that lullaby keep  
To the beautiful eyes in their heavenly sleep.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, July 19, 1887.


