EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE invite the young and the old and the middle
aged to contribute to the paper, giving the benefit 
of their best thoughts and ideas to those who
read, that it may be even more fully the EXPON-
ENT of the views and opinions of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The paper is
circulated far and wide, and we want it to contain
the best and truest principles, clearly and vividly 
set forth, that it may be a missionary in the homes
of the Saints, and wherever it may find a place
abroad among the people of the world, or in the
hands of the tourist and "the stranger within our
gates," of whom, in these days, there are a multi-
tude from time to time.
	REPORTS of conferences from the Relief Society
of Bear Lake Stake and the R. S.
and Y. L. M. I. A. of Juab Stake, and of the
district conference of Relief Society held at Wells-
ville, will appear in our next issue of the paper.
We have some verses and other articles on hand,
that will appear in good time, and some not exactly 
suitable for our little paper, but which contain ex-
cellent thoughts suited to the occasion for which
they were written and read. The Primary Band
in Richmond sent us the verses written for them;
these will be printed on slips of paper and dis-
tributed to the little folks, and in this way we feel
sure they will be more acceptable, and do more
good to the little fellows than if published in the
EXPONENT.
	THERE have been some material changes made
recently in the Deseret Hospital, which it is hoped
and believed will be an advantage to the institution.
For some time past there has not been a surgeon
or physician resident in the house, but the Board
of Directors have secured the services of Dr. Ro-
mania B. Pratt, well known in the city and terri-
tory as a skillful practitioner, and she has been
duly installed as Resident Physician there, and
will have entire charge of the Hospital in all its


departments for the present, although it is the in-
tention, also, sometime in the near future, to have
a Medical Superintendent, but there is a good
strong corps of visiting physicians, who are always
ready and willing when called upon or assistance
is required, to come and do all in their power.
The Board feel very grateful to these surgeons
and physicians, both men and women, who have,
from time to time, attended operations and so
forth, and thus given time and valuable services
and influence to the Hospital, which is still, it may
be said, in its infancy, and has had rather a hard
struggle to keep up, but there seems a brighter
prospect at present. There are many of the
members of the Deseret Hospital Association
that have not yet paid the annual fee of member-
ship, and the President and Board of Directors
would be very glad if at this particular time, when
they are greatly in need of means, those whose
dues are not paid, would come forward and pay
or send the money to the Secretary, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Office WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake
City, Utah. New memberships of either brethren
or sisters, are also earnestly solicited to assist in
this benevolent work and help sustain an institu-
tion where the sick and afflicted may be properly
nursed, cared for and treated by those who have
the spirit and influence of the Gospel.


