THE BIBLE.

	This book is called by some people a precious
volume, by others a worthless production. And
why this great difference of opinion? The first
consider it precious because from its sacred
pages they study the character of our Heavenly
Father, and His designs and purposes concern-
ing the human family; and since it was the re-
quest of an alwise Providence that His words
should be written, would it not be unwiso in us
to neglect to read the same?
	It certainly would be, for two reasons, one
of which is, that by reading those instructions


we develop the germ of the Deity, which all
possess, as also our reasoning powers. Our
Savior once said, “Search the Scriptures, for in
them ye think ye have eternal life, and these
are they which testify of me.” Another one is,
He also gives a portion of His Spirit to those
who earnestly seek to know His will.
	With this spirit we will more readily compre-
hend the importance of our mission to earth,
and how to fill our positions properly. He
judges us by the motives and intents of the
heart, and knows what motives prompt us to
read, or to act under all circumstances.
	Since this is our faith, could we yield to infi-
delity? What enjoyment would we expect
from such a source of reasoning?
	Could we believe for a moment that any of
the human family were natural born infidels?
That they did not believe in an alwise Provi-
dence, whose designs and purposes are for the
good of all who will give attention to His
laws, and who is no respector of persons, yet
He may be of characters? Yet all must live
and learn.
	I would ask, “Which is the sane person?
The one who respects and obeys the Bible, or
the one who throws it aside without any re-
spect to its sacred lessons?” I acknowledge
that it has been a great comfort and guide
to me. I do not wish to loose that prop and
be left without any other to lean upon. You
will notice those who destroy it leave you with-
out anything else as a substitute. Not only so,
but seem to say, “You need not trouble your-
self about the laws of God; we can make laws
to suit your cause, that you must and shall
obey.” We find those who live by righteous
laws themselves are better judges to set others
aright
	I always prefer and would vote for those
rulers who obey God and keep His command-
ments. I feel at home in their presence, be-
cause I know what to expect from them, and
also what they expect from me. In applying
our mind to the Savior’s laws or rule of action
we gain confidence in each other which could
not otherwise exist.
	He was called faithful and true, and those
who seek to live by His laws, will partake of
the same spirit; and rejoice in the same advance-
ment, and they will surely advance.
	May the Lord preserve me from being under
the control of those who acknowledge no God
or laws of God only those manufactured at will.
They are too fluctuating and uncertain to think
of, much less to give attention to, or try to be-
come acquainted with.
		M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, July 5, 1887.


[Column 1]
