WOMAN'S SPHERE.
	The word sphere, although relating to a limited
space, has quite an extensive meaning. The sun 
is called a sphere, and rightly, too; the planets
which comprise our solar system are spheres also,
and therefore the earth we occupy is a sphere.
The word also means, the circuit of action, of
knowledge, influence or power; having its bounds
and limits. Were it possible to step off the sur-
face of the earth into space, it might be said that
we had passed beyond this sphere, but we all
know this would be utterly impossible, hence we 
are confined to the circumference of the earth and
cannot go beyond it, at least not in our mortal 
state.
	Our existence, however, is a dual one. For
while the mortal part is limited to this earth and
cannot get beyond it, yet the immortal part can
reach out into space, can gaze upon and handle
with as much reality and comprehend with as
much certainty some things which we term
ethereal, as anything that we know naturally as
pertaining to this earth upon which we dwell. Yet
we are for the time being limited in our knowledge
as well as in our powers. While we are in the
midst of eternity, yet our progress in the knowl-
edge of eternal things is necessarily limited and
bounds are set from time to time limiting us in
our eternal progress within certain spheres, beyond
which for the time being we cannot pass no mat-
ter what our aspirations, or desires may be.
	Each woman possesses a separate and distinct
identity that cannot become any part of 
another identity. This identity is des-
tined to be preserved intact through all
the eternities that are to come and has
within it the elements of adaptation and fit-
ness to all conditions, both as pertaining to the
present as well as to the future. As we said we
are dual beings; yet is woman’s physical organism
—and although peculiar to herself—in most beauti-
ful harmony with her spiritual being. We are
speaking now of the entire race of womankind for
while individuals may be in some respects dissimi-
lar yet as a whole each individual very strongly
represents the other and it is not the single indi-
vidual that we are considering but woman as a 
whole.
	Although closely allied to man—and anomalous 
as it may appear—yet is her world or sphere dis-
tinct from his, as is plainly manifest in her entire 
life and being. Her desires, her hopes, her am-
[Column Two]
bitions, if at all correct, are decidedly womanly;
and when she assumes anything—either in speech
or conduct—that does not legitimately belong to
her she unsexes herself, and that, too, in the
ratio of such departure and is therefore to that ex-
tent outside of her proper sphere.
	Poets have made of woman an angel, while
satirists among many other things have declared
her to be an engima, neither of which is essentially
correct. Revelation teaches that there are elements
within her, which, when properly developed, will
take her far beyond any angelic condition or sphere,
while her true self is as plainly manifest as any
other fact when properly demonstrated.
	It is in the union of the sexes or the uniting of
woman with man, where the true study of woman
commences; all the other periods of her life are
simply preparatory to this grand climax of her
being and her completeness is not assured until
this goal is reached. Physical maturity may be
attained, it is true and so far we may justifiably
claim womanhood, but she is still lacking in com-
pleteness and this lack will always continue out-
side the marriage relation even should she live to
be a century old in this life, while in the future it
will still be more keenly felt. This fact as far as 
relates to this life is recognized the world over,
among the barbarians as well as the civilized; for
the spinster is generally made the butt of ridicule
and is often held in more or less contempt.
Woman's true sphere then, is wifehood and mother-
hood and everything pertaining to, or growing out
of these conditions is her natural element. How-
ever improved these conditions may become in
the future—as improved they will be—woman’s
advancement is dependent still upon these two 
conditions and is inseparably connected therewith
unless indeed she should choose to be an angel,
which is a condition very far below her true
sphere.
	There is incorporated in these two conditions
everything pertaining to her advancement, her
future queenly power, as well as a fulness of joy 
for evermore. In short, all that woman could de-
sire or crave or could possibly enjoy in the eter-
nities that are to come is incorporated and em-
bodied in these two conditions, while all her hopes
are centered therein and her fears and dreads in
this mortal life are as inseparably connected there-
with.
	The clamor that is made in the world to day
concerning "WOMAN'S RIGHTS" is in many
instances unwise and at the best relates to matters
that have but a feather’s weight as compared with
those all important interests involved in her being, 
and are unquestionably the result of a lack of 
true knowledge concerning herself. The all ab-
sorbing question abroad is, "Shall woman have
the right of franchise?" This is advocated with
such earnestness and zeal that we are almost led
to think that her whole existence and well being
depended upon this alone, while here in Utah with
the franchise taken away from us by Congress
after having possessed it for years, we make but
little ado, although we fully recognize the wrong
that has been thus inflicted upon us. Give woman
the franchise? Most certainly. In every State
and Territory of the Union as well as in every
part of the civilized world if she desires it and 
we declare that the ballot in the hands of women
would be as safe, as it now is in the hands of man
exclusively, and a little safer. But for the women
of Christendom to enter the political arena at this
time when cunning, chicanery, fraud and corrup-
tion flourish, would necessitate a cleansing first of
the Augean Stables which they would be prompted 
to attempt although the task would be an Hercu-
lean one. And all the world knows that woman's
faculty for removing dirt and filth is proverbial.
But there are a few things that some women have
advocated that appear to me to be altogether out
of place. For instance, a woman would make a 
very poor marshal, sheriff, or policeman, or con-
[Column Three]
stable; unless indeed the men who are liable to
arrest should willingly accompany her to a court
of justice or to jail, for her physical inferiority is
not adequate to this task, unless we except those
female Amazons that are only few in number and
for which we ought to feel very thankful.
	Neither is the judgment seat or the jury box any
part of woman's true sphere for besides many 
potent reasons that might be named; that stern
justice so necessary to be so often administered
seems to me altogether foreign to woman's nature
and the weighing of evidence, too,—often so very
conflicting—should, I think, be left to man whose
philosophical turn of mind admirably fits him for
both of these positions. I am not considering at
this time those corruptions and wrongs so often
exhibited by man, which might be elaborated at
great length but his very natural fitness for these
positions as against woman and vice versa.
	Woman makes a most excellent tutor of youth
and her services in a school board are of the
greatest value, while her very natural adaptation
to the sick room suggests that a thorough knowl-
edge of remedial agencies would make her all the
more efficient in this regard. From time imme-
morial has woman also been recognized as the 
most fitting and proper person to officiate in peri-
ods of accouchement which position involves a
most thorough and complete study of the science
of physiology, together with some knowledge of
anatomy; for ignorance in this regard becomes in
many instances criminal; human life being often
sacrificed in consequence. But as to woman's 
adaptability to become a surgeon in general has
always been a question in my mind. This I think
more legitimately belongs to the sterner sex. 
Those cases wherein woman has excelled in this
regard are the exception rather than the rule.
	We may claim, and perhaps justly too, that
woman's opportunities for the development of this
knowledge and skill have been very limited in the 
past, but the answer to this would be, that had
this been within woman's legitimate sphere she
surely would at some period during the past six
thousand years made exhibitions of the gift and
in so pronounced a manner, too, as to stamp her 
in this one instance at least the compeer of man,
for nature will show itself despite all obstacles.
	Now, my sisters, you cannot acuse me of selfish-
ness but must award to me that fairness which
I have sought to give this subject. Although I 
have been very concise and have noticed only a 
very few points among the many that might be 
named, I have not taken an abstract view of the
question but a general one and again assert, that I
firmly believe the legitimate sphere of woman is
ample for the development of all her powers, her
gifts and her natural endowments, and that within
these bounds can be found all the pleasures and
enjoyments necessary to her well being both here
and hereafter, and when the duties pertaining 
thereto shall have been fully performed we shall
arrive at that degree of fulness that constitutes
eternal felicity, and all within the circumference
of our own sphere. Therefore, WOMAN KNOW
THYSELF. 
