EDITORIAL THOUGHTS. 

	The Constitutional Convention which met on 
June 30, adjourned on the 6th of July having com-
pleted the work undertaken by its members, viz., 
the framing of a Constitution to be submitted to 
the vote of the people and afterwards presented to 
the President and Congress of the United States
asking that Utah be admitted into the Union of 
States. This is the sixth Constitution framed and 
will be the sixth time the people of Utah have
sought to obtain a state government. The people
are entitled to recognition and no good reason can
be urged against the admission of this Territory. 
Everything is favorable so far as the condition 
of the Territory itself is concerned for it is abun-
dantly able to take upon itself the added responsi-
bility of statehood. 
	The new Constitution adopted by the Convention 
and which will undoubtedly be ratified by the peo-
ple at the coming election in August is in strict
conformity with the laws and regulations of other
states. What pretext any fair-minded person can 
conjure up against it, it is impossible at this time 
to imagine. It remains, however, to be proven
what will be done with the new Constitution 
if it is ratified by the people. It will certainly 
be objectionable to a certain class of men, who 
have made and are still trying to make so much
capital out of Mormonism as a hobby. One would
naturally think the topic had worn threadbare
long ago, but there are those who seem to think
they can gain notoriety, money and fame by "ex-
posing Mormonistm," as they call it, as if after all 
these years of half a century and more the people
had not become accustomed to the stale stories
circulated and reiterated so often. If congress
should happen to settle this matter of statehood
by admitting Utah and she should have the
opportunity of electing men to the highest offices
in the gift of the people or exercise a little home
rule one cannot help wondering what will become 
of some of the men, who for so many years have
followed the occupation of exposing Mormonism
to Congress and the fifty millions of people in the
United States. They will certainly take up a new
phase of the question or adopt some other method
for getting a living. And then there are the anti-
Mormon women, who have become known as 
writers of sensational anti Mormon literature, and
delivering lectures on the "Mormon Monster" and
kindred topics, what will they find to talk about
and write about after having found that all their
well laid schemes to keep Utah and the Mormons
out of the Union have failed. We shall see in 
good time. They have fretted and worried them-
selves a great deal over the affairs of the Mor-
mons, strange, too, when one considers how well 
satisfied they are to live next door to those "poor, 
degraded, ignorant creatures." One would think 
they would prefer to go elsewhere, but no, they 
are glad enough to settle down on the land that
the Mormons redeemed from the desert, and sub-
dued making it habitable; "this country belongs
to the United States and should be for the loyal citi-
zens." etc.,etc.;this is the sort of language used by 
one of the great men of the nation; well, the Mor-
mons belong to the United States the majority of 

[Column 2]
the citizens of this fair Territory were born under
the stars and stripes, many were born here in 
Utah and ought to be entitled to some privileges
and rights, and therefore there is little need to talk
about taking away the country for somebody else
while the veritable owners who have bought and
paid for their lands and built their homes are in 
possession.
	It is, perhaps, very fortunate for the Mormons
that there are some sensible people left yet, even
among the most noted men in the United States
who think this people have rights that ought to be 
respected and are not afraid to say so. But with
the Lord on the side of the Latter-day Saints, and
they feel fully assured of that fact, what cause
have they to fear? None whatever while they
walk according to the teachings and instructions 
He has given unto them through His servants
who preside over His Church upon the earth. 
Let come what will come, it will all work together
for the good of His people inthe end; and no man, 
or body of men, or governments, or principalities, 
or powers can hinder or stop the progress of the
Gospel upon the earth, for this Gospel, the same
Gospel the Savior taught, the Gospel preached by 
the "Mormon" Elders, so called, shall be preached
unto all nations and then shall the end come. And
all nations shall then acknowledge God and
His power and authority, for it is said, "every
knee shall bow and every tongue confess" etc. 
	This people are not staking their all upon be-
coming a state, as some of the outside seem to 
think, no indeed. The Latter-day Saints place
their trust in one who orders all things, and who 
will deal out even-handed justice to all, and 
whether the President and Congress and people
of these United States are willing to admit Utah
as a State or not will make no difference with the
work of God established in these last days, never
to be thrown down or given to another people.


