TIMELY REFLECTIONS.
	Aslant the misty morning air,through glittering 
circlets of rainbow hue, comes the glorious orb of
day peeping o’er yon snow-capped mountain peak,
casting its brilliant sheen o’er the teeming valley
below,where myriads of happy songsters are pour-
ing forth their glad welcome in a grand concert of
tuneful melody. Nature is all alive in radiant,
peaceful beauty, the discordant sounds of humani-
ty are hushed, the fragrance of bloom, the sound
of gently rushing waters, the glittering dewdrops
fill my senses with delight, and from the harmony
of sight and sound, my spirit gathers renewed
strength and buoyancy, and from my inmost soul


springs forth an anthem of thanksgiving and
praise for my birthplace, Zion, in whose develop-
ment and progress my greatest desires are cen-
tered. “Her people are my people, her God my
God'’, and under the direction of God’s inspired
servants all my labors shall be in union with those
who seek to establish Zion in righteousness. To
this end a still small voice whispers, “Neglect not
the gift within thee,” faint and undeveloped
though it be, its avenues of expression cramped
and crippled through lack of training and use and
the meagre facilities afforded for education before
the “desert blosomed like the rose," still a sense of
duty is urging on to action and endeavor. Thus
am I seated for a chat with the dear sisterhood of
Latter-day Saints, noble, intelligent, faithful and
God-fearing as I know them to be “with Improve-
ment our Motto and Perfection our Aim,” let us
reason together on subjects of mutual interest
and benefit. Freedom of thought, speech and the
press are still ours, though freedom of action and
expression at the polls has been most cruelly and
unjustly torn from us by the rulers of the great
nation, who so proudly boast of their honor and
chivalry to woman. Oh mockery! Does the
safety of a people or nation depend on the vote of
a few thousand women! Then indeed is the situa-
tion pitiable. Surely the grand structure of Ameri-
can independence must be tottering when Con-
gress enacts laws depriving women of the ballot
which they for 17 years exercised in an irreproach-
able manner. Truly we are the “down-trodden
women of Utah’' when the heads of our nation
conspire to oppress us. Still we rejoice in that
freedom wherewith Christ hath made us free; the
principles of the Gospel so despised and fought
against by the wicked give to woman this greatest
possible freedom, and will elevate her to the high-
est pinnacle of honor and refinement, for man is
not without the woman in the Lord and under
God’s laws their interest and advancement are
equal, “male and female created He them,” and
the Gospel surrounds women with a dignity and
importance undreamed of by Emperors, Kings or
presidents, and which they have no power to be-
stow, and while we are deprived of the right to
sustain by our vote those whom we have proved to
be our true friends in the past, we can still wield
an influence for the right by teaching our children
—our sons the importance of sustaining the con-
stitution of our country and every principle of
liberty, we can teach them to abhor the spirit of
bigotry and oppression—that prompted the gross
insult perpetrated upon their mothers, and like the
Nephite women, spoken of in the Book of Mor-
mon whose husbands were under oath not to shed
blood—we can inspire our sons (many  of whose
fathers are now bound by an odious test oath
from wielding the power of the franchise and
whose mothers are disfranchised without the cere-
mony of a hearing) with faith and resolution to
step forward and exercise the rights left them and
preserve the government of our fair territory from-
from being usurped by the clamorous minority
bent upon crushing out of existence those who
have made this country habitable to them.
	Our experience in the past, particularly the past
three years, has not inspired us with an over
amount of confidence in the justice or mercy of
our political rulers and the heartless Federal
Officials sent by them to administer their cruel
and oppressive laws. The Women of Utah—Lat-
ter-day Saints—have suffered too much from this
class to throw any power or influence in their
possession in favor of those who have proven
themselves to be their enemies—knowing this
the brave (?) minority have beseiged Congress to
strike the death blow at the power so much feared,
the ballot in the hands of a few thousand women.
And to the shame and disgrace of our nation, be it
said, her rulers yielded to their unmanly, ignoble
and cowardly request. To-day, like Samson, we
are shorn of our strength in one way, but we will

[Column Two]

abide the Lord’s time, when this nation will again
confer,unasked, the franchise upon the Women of
Utah.
	Oh, mothers! let us be alive to the mighty re-
sponsibilities of teaching and training our child-
ren in the principles of the everlasting Gospel.
Though we labor in obscurity and self-sacrifice,
that is only known by the angels, yet our labors
are not in vain, if we seek for wisdom and look to
the future good of those for whom we toil;
	"The kindly plans devised for other's good,
	So seldom guessed, so little understood,
	The quiet, steadfast love that sought to win
	Some wanderer from the woeful paths of sin,
					These are not lost."
	Our daily prayers for wisdom, patience and
firmness, our daily struggles for self-control and
discernment to avoid temptations, will all have an
influence for good. We cannot inspire our child-
ren with faith if we are lacking; we cannot teach
them Gospel truths if our own souls are not im-
bued with them; we cannot instill into their hearts
a high sense of duty to God and their fellow men,
if we are not guided by this important principle.
We may teach our little ones to pray, but if they
never see us bow in humble, earnest suplication,
what will it avail? We may plead with our
daughters to put away pride, while we toil in trim-
ming their clothing and bedecking ourselves in
many and fashionable changes of apparel. If we
were seeking first the kingdom of God and His
righteousness, would we not oftener lay aside our
oftimes vain and unfrofitable occupations, that
perish with the doing, and take our precious little
ones in our arms and impress upon their plastic
minds principles of truth that will fortify them
against the snares of the evil one? Oh, we think
we are too busy, oftimes with our fancy work, to
keep our little ones employed, while habits of
indolence are weaving destructive chains around
them. More anon.
