RECOLLECTIONS OF THE PAST.

	Who can realize how swiftly the tide or current
of time is carrying us onward to our eternal des-
tiny? Never before did I see this subject as
vividly as I did at the funeral of Sister Augusta
Cobb Young.
	It seemed but a few weeks since we met at Pitts-
burg. She was with a company of Saints from
Boston; we were with a company from Buffalo en
route for the same place. That place was
Nauvoo.
	It was in the year of 1843. Our captain was
Bradford W. Elliott; theirs, judging from appear-
ances, was President Brigham Young, at this
time President of the Twelve Apostles. It was
the first time we had seen any of the people of
Nauvoo. We were delighted to find ourselves in 
company with Heber C. Kimball, one of the
Twelve Apostles, Elders George A. Smith and
Daniel Spencer, the latter and his aged parents;
also father and mother Alley, to whom we gave
this title because of their age. They were going
to Nauvoo to see their daughter, who was the wife
of Bro. Bates Nobles.
	Sister Cobb at this time had a sick babe. We
stopped at Cincinnati three days; during this time
the babe died. Since that time all the above
named persons have died; only a step-sister and
myself survive. Sister Cobb died Feb. 2nd,
1887.
	There were others of the company whose fate I
did not learn, not being as familiarly acquainted
with them, excepting one family by the name of
Brown, at whose house we boarded while waiting
in Buffalo for the company to start. My step-sis-
ter, Ann Dunlap, and myself left Utica to join this
company, which would start in the fall. Our
parents had gone the previous season.

[column 2]
	When we arrived at Nauvoo we found that they
lived on a farm out of the city. I went to see Sis-
ter Brown, who had a sick child. I found her
comfortably situated, with food and fuel, etc., but
quite unhappy. “How do you feel,” she asked, “to
see the Twelve riding around in their carriages,
and we stuck down here in the mud?” “Well,” I
replied, “if they are out of the mud I am glad of
it; and if I am faithful I will see the day when I
can ride in my carriage.” I saw nothing to grum-
ble at if I could have health.
	She did not see the subject as I did, her child
got better, and the next time I inquired for them
I learned they had gone to St. Louis. They only
stayed in Nauvoo two weeks.
	I well remember how anxious I was to see Sister
Catherine Clawson, the mother of Bishop H. B.
Clawson. She was baptized in Utica at the time
that I was, and left the next spring for Nauvoo. I
went east about sixty miles to visit my mother’s
youngest sister. Mother could not think of going
so far west without bidding her goodbye.
	Aunt Mary had two sons and one daughter. This
daughter was very low with the consumption. She
said to me, “You must stay with mother, she will
be so lonely when I am gone.” She had been
raising blood for weeks, and was beyond the reach
of help. Mother consented to let me stay; and
Father Dunlap also consented to let Ann wait un-
til I was ready to go. She waited at Sister Mon-
roe’s in Utica, who had taught me the trade of
tailoring. My cousin, Ann Maria Dodge, only
lived two weeks, when she passed quietly away.
Peace be to her ashes, for she was a good girl.
She was twenty-two years of age, but knew noth-
ing of the Gospel. Mother received the Gospel
so joyfully I felt quite sure that Aunt Mary would,
as soon as she had time to investigate, but to my
astonishment she would not read anything, but
insisted that her minister would (figuratively
speaking) tear me all to pieces.
	“Well," said I, “then he must tear the Bible to
pieces, for I simply believe the Bible.” He came,
and in a very genteel manner tried to show me my
error. My arguments from the Scripture were
quite ahead of his, and I am sure he saw it. He,
beiieved in election, and accordingly all who are
elected to be saved would be. This ended the
argument.
	My uncle and aunt were not able to convince
me that our faith was wrong, and finally gave up
the idea of trying to do so. My sister came from
Utica, Oneida Co., to Glen, Montgomery Co., to
say that there would be a company start from
Buffalo in September. Accordingly we soon pre-
pared to start on our journey, and arrived in
Nauvoo, as above stated, in the month of October,
on the steamer Nautilus.
							M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 30, 1887.


