INDEPENDENCE DAY.

	The celebration on the 4th of July made quite
a display on the streets,and in Liberty Park where
the people assembled, everything went off satis-
factorily to all. The procession was the great
feature, hundreds of people crowded the sidewalks
in carriages and on foot to see the parade, and all
appeared to enjoy the music and the sight-seeing
and to appreciate the occasion to its utmost. At
the head of the procession was Col. Page, Mar-
shall of the day with a cavalcade of horsemen.
Held’s band came next playing national music;
following the band were carriages containing offi-
cials Gov. West, Ex-Gov. Murray, Chief Justice
Zane, Secretary Hall, James H. Moyle Esq. The
Utah Commission, County officers and members
of the Constitutional Convention and other promi-
nent men and citizens. Then came Capt. Bishop
and a number of horsemen,the City Band Knights
of Pythias in full dress uniform, and next the
Colonial Car with the Goddess of Liberty, Miss
Celia Swenson personating the Goddess, and
thirteen other young girls representing the thir-
teen original states; the car was gorgously orna-
mented and sailors and fairies in costume at the
four corners gave it a very handsome appearance.
Another elaborately trimmed car followed, filled
with young ladies who each carried a streamer
having on it a name of one of the states of the
Union. Next came the Fire Brigade and then
the Base Ball Clubs all in uniform and the Loco
motive Engineers; these made quite a display with
their bright gay uniforms. Next in the parade
was the car filled with young ladies, designated
the Bouquet of Beauty. After this the trade dis-
plays and manufacturers fifteen or twenty vehicles
and machines. The showing in these was excel-
lent and they were arranged in good taste, with
banners, mottoes etc. emblematic of what they
represented. The last part of the procession
was styled the Antiques and Horribles, compris-
ing the absurd,humorous and oddities interspersed
very rarely with the beautiful, all, however, help-
ing to make variety to suit the taste of all who
congregated to witness the parade and celebrate
the day.
	On the Grand Stand at the Park the Federal
Officials and officers of the day,city and county offi-
cers and citizens were seated, the assembly was
called to order and first addressed by Gen. Eli H.
Murray; Prayer by Rev.T.C.Iliff; John M. Young
read the Declaration of Independence and the
band played “The Star Spangled Banner." Gov. 
West then delivered an oration; after he had con-
cluded his address T. E. Harper sung the Star
Spangled Banner; the next speech was from
Judge Zane,followed by one from James H. Moyle;
the band then played some soul stirring music and
the anthem America was rendered in an effective
and impressive manner by G. D. Pyper, M. J.
Thomas, Bessie Dean and Maggie Hull. This
completed the programme when the benediction
was prononnced by Rev. Ilift. This closed the
proceedings of the day at the Park.


﻿There was the usual applause and cheering and
so forth, and on the whole the day was an agreea-
ble one to all interested. The zeal and en-
thusiasm over Independence Day never dies out
in the heart of an American, no matter what
their position in life or circumstances may be. It
is a part of their nature born in them and inherited
from generation to generation.
   The display of fire works on Arsenal Hill in
the evening is said to have been the very best and
finest as well as most costly ever seen in this city.
There were very fine displays at several residences
in various parts of town and altogether the day
was a most enjoyable one.


[Column 1]
