			SALT LAKE STAKE
	The Relief Society quarterly conference of
this Stake was held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, Thursday, June 23, 1887, at 10 a.m.,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. On the stand
were Mrs. Z. D. H. Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith 
and Mrs. H. M. Whitney. Meeting opened
with the usual exercises and verbal reports of 
the presidents. The reports showed that the
several organizations were in good condition,
and an increased attendance, and an improve-
ment in good works.
	After the reports were given, Prest. Horne
addressed the sisters on the great importance
of the duties assigned them in the Relief So-
ciety, and urged them to a diligent performance
of the same.
	Meeting was adjourned until 2 p.m. with 
singing, and prayer was offered by Sister B.
W. Smith.

	Afternoon session: There were many more
present, and the presidents from country
places gave reports of the condition of the
society over which they presided, all being in 
prosperity and in improvement in good works.
	Sister M. A. Hyde, President of the Relief
Society in Sanpete Stake, then addressed the
meeting on the cultivation and education of
the children of Zion; also spoke upon the
principle of plural marriage, considering it the
highest type of marriage, and spoke of the
very fine, noble children growing up in our
midst; thought we should bring them up intelli-
gently, and gave much excellent instruction.
	Prest. Horne spoke upon the storing of grain,
referred to the fall of Babylon, and the prep-
aration necessary for that great event; also
gave counsel about supporting by membership
and donations the Deseret Hospital.
	“Sister Zina” spoke briefly upon the times in
which we are living, the great events transpir-
ing, and the crisis in this kingdom; thought
our work would enlarge, etc.
	Coun. H. M. Whitney thought this work
was rolling on with mighty speed; referred to
her father's sons who were zealous in the work, 
and made allusion to the principle of plural
marriage as a divine order, etc.
	Sister M. A. Freeze, Prest. of the Y. L. of 
this Stake, made some very appropriate re-
marks, and also spoke of plural marriage as
from God, and thought it a subject women
should speak upon, etc.
	Sister Hyde spoke in the gift of tongues, and 
Sister Young gave the interpretation, after
which Prest. Horne made closing remarks, and
the meeting was adjourned for three months 
with singing and a benediction by Sister Sarah
M. Kimball.
			Y. L. M. I. A.
	There was an interesting quarterly confer-
ence of the Y. L. held on Friday, June 24th,
in the 14th Ward Hall, though there were not 
so many as usual present.  Mrs. M. A. Freeze
presided, assisted by her Counselor, Mrs. M. Y.
Dougall.  Verbal reports were given by the
officers of the several Associations in the Stake,
though all were not reported, which is a matter
of regret, as at these conferences general in-
struction is given for the benefit of all and
their future progress, and it is expected that
each Association will be heard from. These 
young women in their organizations are mak-
ing rapid improvement in such studies as are
calculated to develop their mental and spiritual 
powers, and give them a thorough knowledge
of their religion, their own and other countries,
and the science of government. They also
contribute to charitable purposes of various
kinds, and each association pays, or is expected
[Column Three]
to pay, monthly to the Deseret Hospital, re-
ceiving credit for the full amount, which may
be refunded in payment on any patient they 
choose to send to the institution for treatment. 
A short time ago Prest. Freeze proposed that 
the Associations in this Stake assist in emigrat-
ing some worthy persons from the old country
who were not in circumstances to pay their own 
emigration.  Means has been already collected
sufficient to bring out three adult persons, and
this plainly shows that "where there's a will
there's a way," and furthermore, that the Lord
blesses those who are willingly helpful to the
poor. Sweet charity! well doth it become the
young, and in  blessing are we blest, and in
giving more than in receiving.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters R. R.
Grant, E. Howard, B. W. Smith and M. A.
Hyde, women of large experience in the
Church, whose teachings to the young are ever
motherly and wise.
	Dr. Ellis R and Maggie C. Shipp each spoke
to the young ladies on appropriate subjects, in
a most interesting manner, calculated to awaken
thought and inspire noble sentiments. They
were also addressed by some of the leading 
officers of these valuable Associations for the
advancement of the young daughters of Zion.
Some matters of business were transacted, and 
the conference adjourued for three months.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	A Relief Society conference of the Oneida
Stake of Zion, held in Clifton District, June
8th, 1887. Meeting opened at 10 o'clock a.m.
Present on the stand, Stake President, Eliza-
beth Fox, Second Counselor, Mary Hawks,
President Hendricks of Oxford, President Jane
M. Howell and her two Counselors of Clifton,
and Counselor Mary Ann Paskin of Treasure-
ton; also Patriarch Milo Andrus of Oxford,
Elders William Webster and Lewis Petty.
The choir sang, "An angel from on high."
Prayer was offered by Elder William Webster.
The choir sang, "Truth reflects upon our
senses." President Fox invited all the presi-
dents and representatives present to come to the
stand. Minutes of the previous conference
read and received.
	Prest. J. M. Howell represented the Clifton
ton Society as being fully organized and in 
good order. 
	Prest. Hendricks reported the Oxford Society
as doing well.  Said the sisters had done con-
siderable work since she had presided, and felt
well and benefitted by the sisters' visit.
	Coun Mary Ann Paskin reported the
Treasureton branch as doing well.
	Coun. Mary Hawks said, "I am happy to
meet you once more, dear sisters. We have 
traveled many miles in company with the
brethren of this Stake, and have met many of 
the sisters and held quite a number of meetings. 
I am pleased to hear that the brethren meet 
with you once in a while; it is very encourag-
ing to the sisters. We should be kind to each 
other, and especially to those who are left to
provide for their families without the aid of
father and husband; they should not be neg-
lected. We should be very wise in counsel-
ing our children, for they are our hope and our
all. There is a great labor for us to perform
as sisters. You should attend your meetings,
and especially the Relief Society meetings,
where you can talk upon subjects that cannot 
by talked on in other meetings. Mothers, I 
say to you all, read good books, and often lecture
on the laws of human nature. You should
guard against all things which are injurious to 
your health. Do not neglect your duties in the
society for your work; if you wait for the time
when you have nothing to do you will never go,
for a mother's work is never done. Exercise
faith in the ordinances of the Gospel. We, as 
mothers, have a right to administer to the sick
in the absence of the priesthood.'


Prest. Fox said, “I am well pleased with the
reports and minutes of Relief Society in this
Stake. I feel to encourage in lecturing, and I
will advise the young ladies to meet with you
and receive the benefit. The teachers should
visit regularly. You should be diligent in
looking after the poor in your wards. Cheer
up the sisters, especially the ones who are left
alone. We are a blest people, for we live in
the age of building temples and working in
them for those who have died without a kuowl-
edge of the Gospel. Girls should not go into
the creeks to bathe, but they should bathe often
in proper places in warm water. I will say to
the girls, be virtuous and chaste, and never
dare to neglect to pray. I say to the sisters,
attend to your meetings, so you may be bene-
fited and your officers be encouraged. Do not
neglect to lay up grain and take care of it. I
would like the brethren to help build good
granaries, so the mice cannot destroy the grain;
our grain is very precious, and should be taken
good care of.”
	Elder William Webster said, “The Sisters
are traveling in the Stake to instruct the sisters
and children upon many subjects which are
necessary for them to understand. We have
repented, been baptized, and many of us have
received forgiveness of sins, and are in posses-
sion of a portion of the Holy Ghost, whose
office is to lead to all truth. We should com-
ply with all the requirements of the Gospel so
we may be counted with the worthy at the last
when Christ shall come to make up His 
jewels.”
	Patriarch Milo Andrus of Oxford said, “I
have felt inspired in your meeting; I have felt
inspired by the beautiful morning, and by the
appearance of life and growth outside of the
house. It is very important for us all to under-
stand the laws of life and health. The Gospel
found us all in a very ignorant state pertaining
to the knowledge of God. The brethren should
sustain the Relief Society by their presence.
Joseph the Prophet, and Hyrum the Patriarch,
and many more noble brethren, set the example
in their life-time. The Society should try to
create work for their daughters and sisters, that
they may not be compelled to go to the outside
for employment. The young people should
not dare to trifle with the springs of life, that
their offspring may be noble sons and daughters
of God, as He has reserved the most noble
spirits to come forth in this age. By observing
the laws of God all this can be brought about.
We should so live that we can dedicate our
bodies to God, feeling we have done His will
and kept His commandments. There is no
danger, truth will prevail. This kingdom will
come off victorious; only wait.”
	Bishop William Garner said, “I am thank-
ful for the visit of the sisters, and for their
timely instruction.”
	Prest. Fox thanked those present for their
good attention.
	Conference was then adjourned subject to ap-
pointment. The choir sang, ”O, say, what is
truth?” Benediction by Elder Lewis Petty.
	While the Relief Society held their meeting
in the ward house, the Stake Presidency of the
Primary held a meeting in the Society Hall,
which was crowded to overflowing.
	At 2 o’clock a.m. a ward meeting was held,
Stake Counselor George C. Parkinson presiding.
The time was occupied first by Elder William
Webster of Franklin, secondly, by Elder Riley
Davis, and lastly, by Coun. George C. Parkin-
son. All gave wise and timely instructions.
Conn. Saul Hale and wife, both of the Stake
Presidency, were prevented from attending this
conference by an accident.
	The enjoyable visit of our honored brethren
and sisters, with so much good instruction, was

[column 2]
crowded is so short a time, that this report
hardly does credit to the occasion.
