		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake was held in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City, on the 14th of
June, 1887, at 10 o’clock a.m. After the usual
opening exercises, Coun. Olivia Widerborg ad-
dressed the assembly, and reported the Scandi-
navian Society favorably. Spoke of the great
mission of mothers in our home, in our actions,
and in every respect to set an example. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow said we expected Sister
Richards and Sister Shirtliff from Ogden, but 
perhaps they would be here before noon. “It
is our privilege to live up to the commandments
of the Lord; we are under a responsibility to
the Lord and each other.” Spoke of Sister
Keller, President of the Mantua Relief Society.
“She has been very sick for a long time; let us
all remember her in our prayers.”


Sister Dewey reported Deweyville verbally.
Sister Jensen reported Mantua Society, and
spoke feelingly about their dying President,
Sister Keller; told of her goodness, and the
comfort she had been to her sisters.
	Sister Anderson reported the 3rd Ward; Sis-
ter Peery, Three Mile Creek; Sister Albertsen,
Bear River City; Sister Watkins, the 4th Ward;
Sister Hubbard, Willard City; Sister Mary E.
Snow, 2nd Ward Brigham City; Sister Fannie
Graehl made excellent remarks. Sister Sus-
annah P. Booth reported the 1st Ward Brig-
ham City. All these sisters gave good instruc-
tions, and spoke upon the duties and responsi-
bilities of the mothers in Israel and the women
of Zion, touching upon many points of special
interest, and zealously urged all the sisters to
live humbly, and to be obedient to counsel and
prayerful at all times.
	Singing. Benediction by Prest. Harriet
Snow.

	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
minutes of the previous conference were read
and accepted.
	Prest. Harriet Snow said, "There are many
duties resting upon us, as members of this
Church and members and officers of the Relief
Society. It is necessary that we should culti-
vate a feeling of love and union. If we em-
brace these opportunities of meeting together,
gathering intelligence and wisdom, when we 
get thoroughly schooled in the principles of
our religion, then we shall be strong and firm,
without fears, but if we are negligent we shall 
lose the spirit of our religion.
	Emilia D. Madsen spoke a short time on
truthfulness and the way of gaining each other's 
confidence.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards, of Weber Stake
R. S., said, "I was very pleased to hear the 
minutes, and Sister Snow and Madsen. I feel
there is a good spirit here." Spoke of the great
difficulty in keeping a secret. "Our religion is 
of that nature that we can find plenty to do; I
never knew a time when there was more oppor-
tunity to do good than at present. I would
not care for religion if it was only for to-day
or to-morrow, but it is for all eternity if we
live right. When we meet together in the 
Spirit of the Lord, talking of His mercy and
love, don't we feel good—much better than
if we go to all the festivals?" Spoke of the 
many duties of women. "The men could not
get along without us; we could not get along 
without them. If anything goes wrong with
me, that I don't feel good when I go to bed, I
have to get rid of it before I lay down to 
sleep. I want to feel happy and enjoy life
while here." Knew how hard it was for
mothers of a family to come to meeting, and 
how much patience they had to exercise. "I
desire to live faithful. I think I can feel that
you are going onward in Brigham City. I 
used to think if I could only keep faithful till
I was forty years old I would be pretty sure,
but I have seen people seventy years old aposta-
tize; it is only those who keep faithful to the 
end who will receive the reward."
	Sister Shirtliff said, "I feel here a spirit of
sisterly love  Woman's work is a very mixed 
one. I think there is a great field of charity
for women to do good for each other; we can
find much to do among the sick and the poor;
wherever we can assist each other we should do
so happily; if it is not put down in our minute
book it will be recorded in heaven."
	Sister Harding bore her testimony. Spoke
of the great danger in letting our girls go out
to the Gentiles.
	Bro. Dudley said, "I have enjoyed what I 
have heard. It would do me good if I could
put it into practice. The Spirit of God has
been with us to-day."
	The congregation sang, "We thank Thee,
[Column Two]
O God, for a prophet." Adjourned for three
months.
