IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with deep feelings of regret and sorrow that we re-
cord the death of one of our most esteemed sisters, Sophia
Berg, who departed this life Dec. 10th, 1886, at her home
in Santaquin, Utah, after a long and painful sickness, caused
by consumption. Deceased was born in Var a Finnland,
May 19th, 1845. She was a faithful teacher in the Relief
Society, meek and humble in spirit and exemplary in all
the relations of life. She was beloved by all who knew her,
and died in the hope of a glorious resurrection, to inherit
eternal life in the mansions of the just. She leaves a hus-
band and aged mother, with a large circle of relatives and
friends to mourn her loss.

	DIED, at her home in Santaquin, Sister Annie Parson
Swenson, May 16th, 1887, from a lingering illness of about
nine months duration. Her age was 66 years, 8 months
and 14 days. She was bereft of her husband in a very
sudden and cruel way some fifteen years since, and has
lived a widow ever since. She labored hard supporting
herself and donating as liberally as her circumstances would
permit to aid in the great work she was engaged in. She
was a very faithful and efficient teacher in the Relief Society,
which office she has held with honor for the last seventeen
years, and was always ready to faithfully perform any duty
that was required of her. She embraced the Gospel in her
native country, Swedon, in the year 1857; and emigrated
to Utah in the year 1860. She leaves an adopted daughter
and a large circle of friends to mourn her loss.

	To the memory of Sister Edna F. Tietjen, the beloved
wife of August Tietjen, who died June 15th. 1887. She
was born in Mecklenberg, Strilts, Germany, Sept. 8th,
1825, and emigrated to Utah with her husband and family
in the year 1859, having previously united themselves with
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From
that time forward she was devoted to her religion. Her
door was always open to receive and hospitably entertain
the servants of God, and to all who sought her for aid and
counsel. She held the office of treasurer in the Relief So-
ciety here for the past sixteen year reflecting great credi
on herself and honor to the Association. She was modes
and retiring, yet possessing many rare qualities of heart and
mind. She died as she had lived, beloved and respected
by all who knew her, leaving a husband, eight children and
twenty-six grandchildren, also a large circle of friends to
mourn her loss.

	These three dear sisters now at rest
		Were highly prized by those who knew their worth.
	Their missions were to comfort and to bless,
		While God saw fit to lend them on the earth;
	They labored with untiring zeal.
		Nor deemed their tasks too hard to bear,
	Till God in mercy called them home— 
		Bright crowns and homes await them there.

	Resolutions of Respect on the death of the above
named sisters adopted at a meeting of the Relief Society
of Santaquin, held July 7th, 1887.
	Whereas, Their labors in our Association have been
faithfully performed, we feel that some proper recognition
of their virtues be recognized among us, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief Society, do
deeply mourn the loss of such valuable and faithful co-
laborers.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to their relatives, and have the same published in the Ex-
ponext; and keep a copy on our record.

