[Vol3 | October 1916 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Prince of Ur Homespun]
The Prince of Ur CONCLUDED. Homespun. The morning sun was rising through a dense fog of smoke and gloom upon a weird and devasting sight. The city of Ur lay in partial ruins the Ziggarut itself was a smoking pile of; confusion and disaster. None in the encampment of the Prince of Ur, far down below the city had slept during the fateful hours. The old Petesi Terah sat in his tent door in the dim morning light, too stricken with grief and remorse to rally his own facilities, much less to assume direction of the coming pilgrimage. The spot chosen for the encampment was in the lovely grove of date-palms which belonged to the Princess Sarai in her own right. The pilgrims were too far away to hear the groans and cries which rent the heavens from every quarter of the stricken city, but they could begin to see, when they turned their eyes thitherward the cloud of smoke and rising dust lit now and then with smouldering flames as a result of the tremendous shock which had destroyed the temple of Ur. Hundreds of frightened and watching people moved in and out of the one city gate left standing, trying to remove the injured and dying from the debris of the city into the cooling shade of surroimding groves and plantations. To all of the horrors and suffering the Petesi was deaf. His own soul was crushed by the certainty of his share in the terrible calamity sent by the Divine Avenger upon the apostate city of Ur. Abram on his arrival from the Ziggarut was greeted with solemn rejoicing, and he at once assumed direction of the removal of the whole encampment. He approached his father's presence with the deference due an oriental father. "How rests the heart of my gracious father upon the altar of his soul? Let not thy face be hidden from thy loyal children. Arise, O, my father and set thy face to the north. I have this day mapped out our course of travel. The camels are loaded the herds and the flocks will soon be upon their way while thine and Sarai's tent remaineth for immediate packing. Ellasar shall be our first resting place. From there by easy journey we shall remove to Erech, going next to Calneh and then beyond, far beyond to Borsippa. There we rest as thou knowest in sight of Babylon itself. We shall not linger, please God, near this great and wicked city. Passing it by we shall also dwell shortly at Cutha. Sippara next will claim our caravan. Nehor would linger in Haron and so we may, for Padan-Aram hath many 
 pastures where our flocks and herds may rest in peace. Dost approve this plan?" "Thy journeyings shall be taken according to thy will," said the broken old man. "My spirit is stricken and I am desolate. The Lord hath cast off the altar, He hath abhorred the sanctuary of the heathen He hath stretched out a line He hath not with; ; drawn his hand from destroying. Therefore He hath made the rampart and the wall to lament. They languish together. Her gates are sunk into the ground. He hath destroyed and broken her bars. The king and her princes bite the dust. My eyes do fail with tears my bowels are troubled because the children; swoon in the streets of the city. His prophets hath seen vain and foolish things for thee, O Ur of Chaldee. He hath discovered thine iniquity and hath not turned r.way thy destruction. All that pass by clap their hands at thee. They hiss and wag their hea'ls at the beautiful city. They hiss and gnash their teeth. They say This is the day that we looked for. The Lord: hath fulfilled His word. He hath thrown down and hath not pitied This is the lament of the prince and power of Ur.' The old man's voice pierced the very marrow of Prince Abram and the rough sheiks who bowed in the earth and threw dust upon their heads, groaning in bitter responses to the deep intonations of the old Petesi. As the old man ceased his mourning Abram arose and looking southward besought his aged father to cast his eyes over the preparations that were making. All of the substance of the camp was heaped high upon the backs of hundreds of kneeling camels. Slaves stool by their animals ready to prod them forward the moment the word was given to move on. Around the camels were grouped flocks of sheep and goats, while the asses stood stolid and immovable ber.eath the towering forms of the camels. The multitude was so large that 400 trained soldiers upon their dancing Arabian ponies waited to take up the line of march at the head of the column. Abram had cast aside his scholarly raiment and had donned the usual sheik's cloak of brilliant scarlet, his loose handkerchief bound by a fillet of rope about his head while he held his spear in his hand. "I am content," sighed the old Petesi, "to leave this desolate city and to accept thy leadership into the distant Canaan where God hath promised thee inheritance." Abram left the Petesi under the charge of Lot while he h-mself hurried towards the tent of Sarai. Here the princess, clothed in the thin shirt of the Arab woman over which she had laid a coarse striped cloak, had stood all night directing the labors of her hundreds of servingwomen. About her beautiful head she had thrown a common black kerchief which she had twisted loosely about her temples with a rope of camel's hair. Most of THE PRINCE OF UR. 571 her jewels were put away, but her neck was still encircled with a gorgeous Assyrian necklace which had flashing jewels, with coral and sacred cylinders of engraved scriptures all intertwined in one great dazzling array. Earrings of gold ornamented with turquoise hung from beneath the kerchief and she looked as indeed she was prepared to be, a genuine chill of the desert, ready to take her place beside her fleeing lord clothed in the simple raiment of the Bedouin queen. Between the center poles of her huge tent lay the large goat hair sacks of rice, corn, barley, and the other household stufifs from which the great encampment would take their early meal before the sun had traveled an hour in heated glory on the eastern horizon. Her gorgeous carpets and cushions were piled outside the Around her, squatting on the tent awaiting final distribution. ground or hurrying to and fro were the hundreds of handmaidens cleaning the wide caldrons, gathering up the iron plates upon which they had baked their bread over the ashes, and some were still shaking the skins, suspended from the stakes and filled with milk which would thus churn the butter for the coming march. Every supply had passed through Sarai's own hands that night and she knew exactly the amount that would feed her multitude from day to day. As Abram approached the tent and asked for his bride, her tiring maiden pointed to the tent whose door was now let down. The prince lifted the curtain and stood within the inclosure. His heart stopped beating as he saw her bending over her last bale of stuffs to be sure of their fastenings. Instantly she arose and with a -sobbing cry flung herself upon his bosom. — "Alive Alive!" she sobbed without restraint. Then "thou! art here with us, and O Abram, what may I do, what can I say in gratitude and love to thee and to our great Creator, Yehweh, for thy deliverance and safety.” Abram's soul was moved by the touching simplicity and humility of this resplendent woman who had voluntarily cast off lier luxurious trappings and clothed herself in the coarse, common garb of a princess of the plains. No greater gift than her willing choice could be offered. He touched with quivering hands, the flowing black kerchief which hid the glory of her hair and pressed her arms close to her side, clad as they w'ere in the rough raiment which she had chosen. "Behold, thou art fair, my love. Behold, thou art fair. Thou hast dove's eyes, my love. Thy cheeks are comely with rows.of jewels; thy neck with chains of gold and a temple of myrrh is my well beloved unto me. Our bed shall be green. The
