BIRTHDAY PARTY.
		HANNAH C. WELLS.
	A small company of the relatives and
friends of Sister Hannah Wells met at her
residence in the 18th Ward in this city, on
Wednesday, June 9, by invitation of the
hostess to do honor to the lady on her 80th
birthday anniversary. There were present
President Joseph F. Smith and wife, Apostle
H. J. Grant and wife, Apostle Orson F.
Whitney and wife. Dr. Seymour B. Young
and Rulon S. Wells and wife of the quorum
of Seventy and most of the older members
of the Wells’ family and several of the younger
ones.
	Elder Junius F. Wells read a sketch of his
mother’s life giving many interesting inci-
dents, that were quite new to most of the
family; and giving also the information of
six generations of the Free family and de-
scendants in the Church, beginning with
Andrew Free who joined the Church in early
days and went up to Missouri and his son
Absalom Free, father of Hannah Free Wells,
and her son Junius Wells and his son Hugo
Wells and Hugo’s son Edward Wells, mak-
ing six generations in the Church, which is
rather unusual, in fact we do not recall any
instance of the kind though there may be a
number of them. Sister Hannah Wells spoke
briefly and as usual with her native humor,
which is quite natural in the “Free Family.”
	President Joseph F. Smith spoke feelingly
of the sketch of Sister Wells life written by
her son Junius for this special occasion, and
alluded to his own mother’s experiences
(Sister Mary Fielding Smith) that had been
recalled by hearing the incidents just read;
his remarks were appropriate and suggestive,


and it was a great pleasure to have him
present on this delightful occasion.
	Of Sister Wells own family, from the large
family of Absalom and Betsy Free her father 
and mother only Preston Free, Hannah C.
and Talitha Smith remain. Hiram S. Young
and Alonzo Young and wife, and nearly all
the Wells sons and daughters were present
to do honor to their Aunt Hannah on her
birthday anniversary.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was a
special guest and the remaining wives of
General D. H. Wells were of the party Lydia
Ann, Susan H. and Emmeline B. Some
verses by Aunt Emm. Wells had been writ-
ten which she read, touched upon a rather
remarkable incident of Sister Hannah Wells
life, contained in the sketch read by Junius,
when as a child in a meeting of Latter-day
Saints she had the courage to offer herself
for baptism, though none of the older people
assembled there had opened the way, but
after the little child had been as it were in-
spired to lead them, the others followed her
example, this took place in Belleville, Illi- 
nois, in the year 1841.
	The daintiest refreshments were served to
the guests by some of the preety grand-
daughters of General Wells, and social con-
versation indulged in for a short time.
	It was a very enjoyable party and will be
always remembered by the younger members
of the family who were present when the re-
maining few of the “Aunties” have passed
to the other side.


