WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	REORGANIZATION AND PARTY.
	On the 6th of February, 1909, the Relief
Society of Newton Ward, in Benson Stake
was reorganized. Sister Martha Beck, who
had been President, for over twenty years.
resigned, feeling that her age, cares and
duties were too much together with the Re-
lief Society.
	Sister Bessie Ballard was chosen as Presi-
dent, with Sister Hannah Hansen 1st and
Mary Dowdle 2nd Counselors, with Eliza-
beth Funk retained as Secretary, and Mary
Jenkins retained as Treasurer.

[Column 2]
	On March 17, 1909, the Relief Society
held its reunion and in connection a sur-
prise on our retiring president, Sister Beck,
Secretary Elizabeth Funk and Treasurer
Mary Jenkins.
	At eleven o’clock the ward meeting house
was filled with brethren and sisters. During
meeting a program was rendered, after
which Sister Beck was presented with a
lovely, upholstered leather rocker. Sister
Funk a gold watch and chain, and Sister
Jenkins with a dainty silver tea set.
	To say that the sisters were surprised is
putting it mildly.
	The presentation speech was made by Sis-
ter Dowdle, which we will include here to
show the esteem in which our sisters are
held.
	Sister Beck, we the members of the New-
ton Relief Society have met today to show
our appreciation to you as a retiring officer.
You have battled the waves for twenty
years or more, and through your diligent
work, your faith and courage, we have
learned to love, honor and respect you; as
the years have passed the ties of friendship
have grown stronger. Your life has been to
us worthy of emulation, your name will
ever be revered among the sisters of the
Newton ward, for the wise counsel, the ten-
der ministrations to the sick, the words of
comfort and consolation among the needy.
	In years to come wherever your lot may
be cast, we all desire and crave a link in
your already long chain of friendship, and
ask heaven’s choicest blessings upon you,
that your friends may increase and that you
may want for nothing,
	Sister Beck in behalf of the Newton Re-
lief Society, I present to you this chair.
Take it and use it, and be as happy as your
days will allow, and as the days come and
go and you sit rocking in the twilight think-
ing of the days that are, and the days that
were, let them be seasoned with thoughts
of the givers.
	Be assured that we will be ready at any
moment, either as a body or as individ-
uals to come at your call.
	Sister Funk and Sister Jenkins, we are not
prepared to have you sit in rockers at the
present time, although you have worked to-
gether with Sister Beck the same number
of years, we feel that your help in the Relief
Society is too valuable to dispense with.
But we desire to present to you a small
memento for your faithfulness in the past,
and ask that you do not measure our love
for you and your service by the cost of the
presents, but accept them as a part of our
appreciation for your service, and ask that
you think of us as your friends and co-work-
ers in this association.
	After the program had been rendered a
dainty lunch was served, after which games
and visiting was enjoyed till evening. The
days’ enjoyment was finished in the evening
by a dance for all married people.
