	divine.”


Such were the sounds that thrilled around when
	Zion’s Prophet rose,
Knowing the hearts that trusted him, would bleed
	for his repose;
And prouder, loftier, was his mien, aye, more
	than kingly, when
From all that vast assembly came as from one
	man. Amen.
Aye, answer for thy people, thou, their lion heart
	of truth,
Answer again, again, again from hoary age to
	youth,
We will not own another chief, nor brook an-
	other’s sway,
Until his voice shall will it so whose word all
	Saints obey.
August 1857.			IDA SUTHERLAND.


[Column 1]
		THE QUINQUENNIAL.
The International Woman’s Suffrage Alli-
ance Congress, held in London, April 26th
		to May 1st inclusive, 1909.
	The Quinquennial of 1909 is now a matter
of history and its pages will stand through-
out the ages as a red letter record. I have
attended the last two congresses and if the
improvement has been in the same ratio
from the first one the advance is amazing
and memorable. Only a brief and general
report can be given for even a concise notice
of each nation would result in a book.
	The ability that women have developed in
forming and working in organized bodies,
observing the strictest parliamentary rules
and maintaining perfect order is far above
that of many similar bodies of men where
they often descend to bitter criticisms and
personalities most unbecoming.
	The Congress of 1909 was held in St.
James’ Hall Gt. Portland St., London, April
26th to May 1st inclusive. St. James’ Hall
is a large, and handsome one, with a fine
gallery and platform. All around the gallery
were hung flags of twenty-one Societies. The
platform was occupied by the officers of the
congress, the same as last year except Mrs.
Rachel Foster Avery whose genial face was
missed by all who have had the pleasure of
her acquaintance.
	The President Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt
presided with her usual grace and dignity
and by her genial diplomacy avoided several
times the danger of a collision, when some
members showed signs of belligerence.
	The President’s address of over an hour in
delivery was a most masterly effort, full of
interest, wit and accurate knowledge of wo-
man’s work the world over. The work done
by the interpreters Madam Schirmacher in
French and Dr. Anita Ausburg in German
was most ably rendered. Not the least in-
teresting fact noted was the great number of
representatives of different nationalities
speaking and understanding the English
language.
	Truly the Key was turned and the door
opened for the emancipation of women by
Joseph Smith the Latter day Prophet, March
17th, 1842, when he organized the first Re-
lief Society. Six years later, 1848, was the
next organization in all the world having for
its object more freedom for women. It ap-
pears a foregone conclusion that the twen-
tieth century will not have vanished into the
past until freedom unto both men and women

[Column 2]
will be a gift of heaven fully realized. The
capacity of women to get down to hard and
tedious public work and to stay with it until
completed was thoroughly demonstrated in
this last convention. It took three days to
revise the constitution. But it was finally
so well accomplished that it is hoped it will
meet the need and approbation of all na-
tions. A curious incident occurred during
the revision when it was moved by Russia
and seconded by Germany that when a reso-
lution was once passed there could never be
a reconsideration. I was about on my feet
to say if women were infallible and omni-
scient such a motion possibly might be in
order but until that time it seems safer to
have the opportunity to reconsider but Miss
Anna Shaw was on her feet first and expres-
sed the same sentiment, but not in quite
such emphatic words.
	The reports from the different countries
were most encouraging, some more so than
others but all showing that the rays of the
light of freedom are gradually penetrating
the pall of darkness which has for centuries
covered the people.
	Fru. Qvam, Representative of the Norwe-
gian Government brought from her Majesty
the Queen of Norway a gracious message to
the convention, expressing the hope that the
work of the International Woman’s Suffrage
Alliance would be for the good of the home
and the happiness of women.
	In Russia the women were permitted to
hold a successful congress of women in De-
cember 1908, but were surrounded on the
outside of the hall by a cordon of police and
they were also in the audience watching with
the utmost vigilance for a pretext to dissolve
and dismiss the assembly. The unconquer-
able and inherent love of freedom which is
Godgiven to every human being through his
free agency was exemplified in the coup the
women made as the finishing touch of their
congress. By prearrangement a member at
the very last moment arose and offered a re-
solution against capital punishment and
all arose in affirmative acclamation. The
police were so astounded by this bold move
that the assembly was dissolved before they
shouted for its dissolution. The President
simply replied Ah! it is already dissolved.
	Wednesday evening there was an official
dinner given at the Princess Restaurant, a
most palatial place which was an elaborate
affair both as to the dinner, the dresses and
the number in attendance. After nine
courses were served and the coffee brought
in a lady (?) at the table where I sat passed
some cigarettes, five or six women accepted
and, when one women from Sweden asked a
British women if it would “be proper to
smoke.” she promptly answered “perfectly
proper” and they lit them and puffed away
like men. Not being asked if I objected to
smoking having refused the cigarette I
promptly placed my handkerchief over my
nose and mouth.
	A crowded reception followed, Mrs. Faw-
cett acting as hostess. Excursions, Lunch-
eons and Breakfasts were in evidence a part
of every day.
	Thursday evening after two arduous meet-
ings revising the constitution a grand pa-


[Column 1]
rade of women proceeded to the Royal Albert
Hall, the largest in the world where the Mi-
litant Suffragettes had invited the Delegates
of the Alliance, about 200 accepting the in-
vitation and were given the best boxes.
	The W. S. P. U. took this plan to explain
their methods and reasons for their militant
proceedings. Mrs. Pankhurst, Miss Chris-
tobel Pankhurst and Mrs. Pettrick Lawrence
were the principal speakers and were most
enthusiastically received and applauded dur-
ing their speeches.
	Two collections were taken and five thou-
sand dollars were realized for the cause.
	Near the close of the last session of the
Alliance the Chair suggested that motto for
the Alliance should be: “In essentials unity;
in non-essentials liberty; in all things char-
ity.” This was adopted and decided to be
written in the Latin language. The chair
also suggested that the unfinished business
be left to the officers and one delegate from
each country—it was moved by Miss Kra-
mers, seconded and carried.
	Mrs. Chapman Catt then thanked the retir-
ing officers for their untiring work and abil-
ity and all the members of the meeting. She
concluded by quoting the memorable sent-
ence: “If we make a long pull, a strong pull
and pull altogether, we shall secure the en-
franchisement of the women of the world for
all generations to come.” Then the public
meetings of the great Quinquennial were
concluded.
	May 3rd. The officers of the Alliance and
representatives of twelve countries met at
25 Victoria St. S. W. and decided upon the
Alliance colors which were to be white and
gold. An International Hymn was decided
upon which is as follows:
	THE WOMEN’S BATTLE SONG.
		Forward, sister, forward!
			Onward ever more,
		Bondage is behind you
			Freedom is before
		Raise the standard boldly,
			In the morning sun;
		’Gainst a great injustice,
			See the fight begun.
				Chorus:
		Forward, forward sisters
			Onward evermore!
		Bondage is behind you
			Freedom is before.
		Women’s hands have labored
			Giving love and life
		Yours is now to follow,
			In the glorious strife.
		Lift the burden gladly
			Strong in right and youth
		Victors, wreathes must crown you
			Naught can conquer truth.
				Chorus:
			Written by Mrs. Flower Mills.
	It was decided to arrange a competition
for the music for the hymn, the music to be
sent to the National President of each
country. It would be fine if musical Utah
could furnish it.
	It was decided by this committee to ac-
cept provisionally the invitation for a Mid-
summer Convention in Stockholm, Sweden,
in 1911. Both countries being free to with-
draw. An invitation from a Viennese com-
mittee for 1913 was accepted on the same
terms.
	In conclusion it is to be noted that this
wonderful congress of women composed of
almost world wide representatives was char-
acterized by the most complete order and
unanimity of work for the good of all and
was so comprehensive in scope as to link

[Column 2]
many nations into a unity of action and pur-
pose.
	It pressed the conviction to the hearts of
all united in this cause that to work with
renewed vigor and diligence and wisdom
that finally the fullest fruition of its mission
will be accomplished.
