OBITUARY.
	In memory of our beloved Sister Nancy Follie,
who departed this life on May 19th, 1909 of heart
failure at the age of 71 years.
	She has been a faithful and loving member in
our Relief Society, and for many years has been
our treasurer, which office she has filled with great
honor.
	To know her was to love her and she is greatly
mourned by all her sisters of the Relief Society.
	The following resolutions were received and
adopted by the Dingle Relief Society.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, Our heavenly Father in his infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call from our midst our
much esteemed and beloved Sister Naney Follie,
who departed this life May 19th, 1909 at Dingle,
Idaho
	And whereas our intimate association with her
in the performance of her duties as a treasurer in
the Society of the Dingle ward has so endeared her
to us that we feel it necessary and befitting to ex-
press our appreciations of her labors in our So-
ciety and of her earnest endeavors to do right! Of
her sterling integrity and faithfulness in the gospel,
in which she was an earnest worker, always ready
to perform any duties assigned her no matter
what the call might be.
	Sister Naney could always be relied upon.
	She was a faithful and loving helpmate to her
husband and a kind and affectionate mother to
her children.
	Be it resolved, that we, the sisters of the Relief


Society do most deeply mourn the loss of so faith-
ful a sister and feel it is hard to become reconciled
to her death. But are willing to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in all things.
	Be it resolved, that we extend our heart
felt sympathy to her husband and children and
ask the Lord to bless them and cause them to
know he is their friend, also that he will comfort
their hearts in this hour of their trouble and sor-
row.
	Re it further resolved that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of our Relief Society. A
copy be given to the bereaved family of the de-
ceased and a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent.
				Elizabeth Cook,
				Rose Sparks,
				Tryphena L. Davis,
					Committee of Resolutions.
	Dingle, Idaho.


