early hour, and the evening was very pleas-
antly spent, chiefly in social conversation.
Suitable refreshments were served, a lavish
supply of fine strawberries being furnished
by Brother Harold Best, son-in-law of the
honored guest of the evening, from his farm
at Mill Creek.
	A short program was rendered, consisting
of appropriate music, vocal and instru-
mental, and the reading of the following in-
teresting sketch, written for the occasion by
Miss “Vi” Truelson.	L. L. G. Richards.
	A DAUGHTER’S TRIBUTE.
	Johanna Norgren Truelson was born in
Sweden, March 14, 1842, being the second of
four children of Ole and Marie Norgren.
	It was in Norway that she received her
education, but later, as a young woman,
earned her living sewing in a tailor’s shop
in Gothenburg, Sweden. In this country
she first heard the Gospel as preached by
the Latter-day Saints. She read the Book
of Mormon with a sincere heart, and a great
desire to understand its truth, and the prom-
ise made by Moroni to all who read that
sacred book in that spirit was literally ful-
filled, for the truth of its teachings was
plainly manifest to the humble student.
	In September of 1863 she was baptized,
and about two years later left the scenes so
familiar to her and the friends of her youth
to immigrate to a strange land in the far-off
west, to her the land of Zion.
	The journey to Utah occupied altogether
six months, three months of which were
spent on the plains in company with about
four hundred Saints, with Brother Millen
Atwood as their leader.
	Volumes might be written of the experi-
ences of the Saints during those journeys;
of the difficulties they overcame; of their
sufferings and of their courage. Each com-
pany had its own peculiar trials to meet;
unwonted toils and weariness awaited these
pilgrims day after day, still they sang the
songs of Zion and looked forward to the
time when their weary feet would find a
resting place in the premised land.
	The company that Sister Truelson traveled
with met its full share of trouble and hard-
ship. More than a hundred graves were
made by the wayside leaving lonely and sor-
rowful hearts to still continue the journey.
One girl lost her mother and two sisters,
and, almost overcome with grief, finished

[Column 3]
the journey alone, as far as her own relatives
were concerned.
	One very peculiar circumstance occurred
that has left a vivid impression on the mem-
ory. A dissatisfied woman was in the com-
pany, and for some reason refused to walk
with the main body of immigrants, but in-
sisted upon always lagging some distance
behind. Her husband and others tried to
persuade her to walk up, pointing out to her
the danger she was in from the Indians.
	One day when the company made their
usual stop at noon, the Indians made an at-
tack upon them, trying to get some cattle,
and one Indian took this woman and rode
off with her. Several of the men were bad-
ly hurt by arrows in trying to rescue her,
but they were not successful, and she was
never heard of again.
	This same day Sister Truelson had taken
a pail and had gone some distance from the
camp to get water. On hearing cries she
looked up and saw Indians coming towards
her from every direction. She was so
frightened that for some seconds she could
not see or realize anything. On coming to
herself she found that the Indians had over-
looked her, and she made her way safely
back to camp, where she found her girl friend
weeping for her, thinking she had surely
been taken by the Indians.
	When Sister Trnelson and this friend ar-
rived in Zion they attended meeting, which
was held in the bowery. Their feelings
were overcome and they wept together for
joy and thankfulness at beholding the
Prophet of God—Brigham Young, whom
they had learned to know and love in their
native land.
	Sister Truelson soon obtained employment
with a tailor and afterwards was engaged
sewing in several large families of the Saints.
	On September 9, 1867, she was married
in the Endowment House, by Elder Heber
C. Kimball, to John Andrew Truelson, of
French descent, but a native of Sweden, who
had embraced the Gospel in Copenhagen,
and had taken much delight in laboring in
the Church there before coming to Utah,
part of his duty being that of leader of the
Copenhagen choir. Upon his arrival in
Utah he was successful in taking up mill-
ing. Sister Truelson and her husband spent
the greater part of their lives in Salt Lake
City, though for a few years they resided in
Idaho, where it was their great pleasure to
entertain at their home Sisters, Eliza R. Snow,
Emmeline B. Wells, and others, who fre-
quently visited that section of country.
	Sister Truelson is now in her sixty-seventh
year, a widow, and the mother of three sons
and two daughters. Her oldest son died in
1887, at the age of nineteen.
	Her ambition in life has been to rightly
understand the Gospel which she received
so gladly in her youth, and to live it day by
day, acting always the part of a true Saint
under all the circumstances which have sur-
rounded her. And her children can truly
testify to her unceasing devotion as a loving,
self-sacrificing mother. A pure and true ex-
ample has been before them, and they, above
all others, can rise up and call her blessed.


