			MARGARET E. CANON.


[Column 1]
			SWITZERLAND.
	One can tell he is in Switzerland, as soon as
the first station is reached by the tones of the
bells, while those of Germany are heavy—a
ding-dong—those of Switzerland are light
and silvery of tone—a ting—a ling-ling, like
wedding bells or happy bells of welcome.
The trains, in coming or outgoing, in these
countries are announced by bells at the sta-
tions. It is interesting to note the gradual
change of architecture as we pass over the
boundary lines of countries, also the dress
and costumes of the people.
	In a mountainous country like Switzerland,
the height very materially influences the cli-
mate, the purity of the atmosphere being re-
gulated by the height above sea level. Apart
from the presence of manufactories, or other
sources of atmospheric impurity, the number
of bacteria steadily diminishes as we ascend,
until at about 1850 feet above sea level, they
entirely disappear. The mountain air fresh
and pure, is highly beneficial in its effects.
The frequency of rain in the mountain re-
gions is disagreeable and thunderstorms are
common on summer afternoons. The crest of
the Alps acts as a huge dividing wall be-
tween the Polar and Equatorial Winds, the
latter often depositing their moisture, in
rainfalls on the south side of the mountain-
range. The best known wind is the Fohn,
a warm south wind, which blows with great
impetuosity in East Switzerland, in the up-
per valleys of the Rhine, Limte, Reuss and
Rhone. It is usually followed by rain. It
is estimated that the Fohn blows seventeen
days in spring, five in summer and sixteen
days in autumn. Under its influence the
barometer falls rapidly, while the thermo-
meter rises; the atmosphere becomes thick
and oppressive; a dense haze envelopes the
mountains, finally a dangerous storm sweeps
over them. The local winds, prevailing on
the higher levels, should be observed by
health seekers; the regular morning-wind
always blowing down-hill, while the evening-
wind blows up-hill.
	The Swiss forests are but few in number,
and have little effect on the atmospheric
moisture, or the extremes of temperature.
In some parts of Switzerland, at the base of
towering snow-capped mountains, green pas-
tures and browsing cattle are to be seen, form-
ing a landscape picture of interest and beauty.
These extensive grassy slopes and pastures,
operate very much as forests do in other

[Column 2]
lands, producing a summer climate, warm
and moist. Switzerland is a land of health
resorts, those of Appenzell, and on the shores
of Lake Geneva being highly recommended for
sufferers from various ailments. The peaceful
scenes, pure air, and retirement from noise and
bustle, having much to do with improved
health conditions. The spiritual nature is
stirred. The majesty of God is made mani-
fest in the sublimity of mountains eternally
capped with snow. Perchance, in gazing on
yonder high peak, we behold Him seated on
his glittering throne surrounded by his glis-
tening court. The sky’s deep blue, seeming-
ly is the throne’s tapestry, on which the
changing clouds are weaving those gorgeous
pictures, where silence and solitude reigns.
Behold a great council is being held: those
lesser peaks rising afar are members, and
all await, his majesty, the Snow King’s
Proclamation, who is sole ruler of the fast-
nesses, glaciers and torrents so far removed
from the foot of man. The picture sublime;
you gaze at the eternal white city; with the
great throne towering in the midst. Thought
has flown far away; a glimpse of eternal
beauty thrills the soul, with a start, a sigh
we awaken, our eyes still resting on a scene
of Alpine splendor, though the king and
court have faded away.
	Tradition tells us that Switzerland was
first peopled by the Rhaeti, whom the Hel-
vetii, a Celtic tribe drove from the plains
into the mountains. They, in their turn
were conquered by the Romans B. C. 58,
by them also the Rheati were subdued in 15
B. C. The Romans made fine military roads
in different parts of Switzerland, from settle-
ment to settlement, a portion of which once
belonged to Gaul. Before the time of Con-
stantine the Helvetii had become extinct.
Helvetia, under the Romans had a flourish-
ing trade, which built up towns and cities.
A Romanic dialect is still spoken in some
parts of Switzerland. Hordes of Barbarians,
swept through the peaceful Alpine vales, in 
about 400 A. D. and occupied all of north
Switzerland, where German is now spoken,
and south Switzerland where Italian and
Romanisch are still to be heard.
	The Franks gradually subdued these races;
they took possession of the country, but
ruled through their officers, not living there
themselves. Christianity was introduced
during this period, monasteries were found-
ed, and dukes and counts were appointed
viceregents of the Frankish kings. After the
dissolution of the Frankish empire, the eas-
tern part of Switzerland was united with the
Duchy of Swabia, and the western part with
the kingdom of Burgundy. In 1032 the
German Emperors, on the downfall of Bur-
gundy, took possession of the country, gov-
erning it by their viceregents the dukes of
Zahringen. Great enmity existed between
them and the nobles of the fallen kingdom,
and they favored the inhabitants of the
towns, and themselves became the founders
of the new towns, Friburg, Bern, and Burg-
dorf. When the power of the emperors de-
clined, the nobles became ambitious of in-
dependence and filled their own coffers at
the expense of their neighbors. The country
people and those of the Swiss towns, to-
gether with the serfs, for protection entered
into treaties with the feudal lords of the soil.
At this time the inhabitants of Zurich placed
themselves under the protection of the then,
unimportant counts of Hapsburg, with whom
the “Three Cantons” of Uri, Schwyz, and
Unterwalden were previously allied. To Uri
and Schwyz letters of independence were
granted in 1231, 1240 by Emperor Frederick

[Column 3]
II. After Count Rudolph of Hapsburg be-
came emperor, he confirmed the independ-
ence of Uri, in 1274 but Schwyz and Unter-
walden continued subject to the Hapsburg
supremacy. In 1291, after the emperor’s
death, the Forest Cantons formed their first
league for their mutual safety and protec-
tion against the growing power of the House
of Hapsburg. Albert, Rudolph’s son, en-
deavored to make absolute his sovereignty
in these provinces, with the result that they
embraced the cause of the rival monarch;
they however were defeated by Albert, who
seems to have modified his treatment of
them. This was the period, to which belongs
the tradition of William Tell of which na-
tional hero no historic foundation is found in
the early histories.
	Albert was assassinated by John of Swabia
in 1308. The Hapsburgers were also op-
posed by Emperor Henry VII who conferred
a charter of independence on the Forest
Cantons. This was bitterly resented by the
House of Hapsburg, who sent a powerful
army against these Cantons, as they, after
the death of Henry had declared their ad-
herence to Louis of Bavaria, who opposed
Frederick the Handsome. At Morgarten this
army was destroyed in 1315. Later several
victories were won by the Swiss, which
caused the downfall of the proud Hapsburg
House. In an attempt to conquer Bern,
the Hungarian nobles were defeated. In
1354, eight independent districts formed a
confederacy which soon became powerful
enough to assume the offensive finally cor-
recting the hereditary domain of Hapsburg
from the dukes of Austria.
	In 1476 a decisive victory was won by the
Swiss, followed by another triumph in the
victory of Dornach. The Swiss independence
was formally recognized at this time, but
nominally they were attached to the empire
until 1648.
	Under the auspices of Zwingli the Refor-
mation was zealously embraced by a large
proportion of the Swiss people. Civil wars
followed on account of jealousies between
the Roman Catholic and reformed Cantons.
Disastrous and bloody conflicts followed.
By many individuals the invasion of the
French was resisted, but the vigor of the
nation was gone, and the Helvetian Republic
was founded on the ruins of the liberties of
the people.
	In 1803 Napoleon restored the cantonal
system, but the constitution was remodelled
in 1815, by resolutions passed by the Con-
gress of Vienna. A new federal constitution
was inaugurated September 12th, 1848,
since which time, tranquility, prosperity and
harmony have reigned.
