JUNE CONFERENCES AND REUNIONS.
	The Annual June Conference of the Y.
L. & Y. M. Associations is always an occa-
sion of special interest and calls for not
only the conferences held separately and
unitedly, but many visitors from the Stakes
of Zion both those near to Salt Lake City
and quite remote in other states and terri-
tories and some from cities in the East and
West as well. It is a beautiful time of year
for enjoyment, and this June there were so
many things planned for the enjoyment of


the young people that it is quite impossible
to mention all. The reunion at Granite
Stake Tabernacle was one of the largest so-
cial gatherings and was very delightful.
One could meet there old friends from far
away, and the atmosphere and spirit of the
gathering must certainly exert an influence
with those workers in this grand undertak-
ing that will permeate the hearts of all who
had the opportunity of attending, and will
we hope and trust reach the homes of the
members who are a long distance away that
they, too, may partake in a measure of the
genuine spirit of social uplifting, that will be
vastly helpful in the Herculean work that is
being done among the youth of Zion. To
those who witnessed the beginning of this
seed planted by President Brigham Young
nearly forty years ago now, it is something
marvelous how it has spread and what its
fruits have been. Would it could reach all
the sons and daughters of Zion.
	The General President and officers of the
Primary Associations held annual Confer-
ence about the same time of year, and this
year seems to have been the banner confer-
ence of this wonderful organization. The
systematic way in which the Primary plans
and carries on the work among the children
is truly delightful. In addition to the meet-
ings, the Presidency had a reunion in Whit-
ney Hall, and the workers from long dis-
tances were entertained with fine music and
games of various kinds in which they them-
selves took part, and they were honored by
the presence of President Joseph F. Smith
and President John R. Winder and some of
the Apostles, who seemed to enjoy the diver-
sion of Kindergarten games and guesses as
much as those who engaged in them. The
president, Sister Louie Felt, who was chosen in
June, 1880, has certainly displayed remarkable
talent in carrying on so great a work suc-
cessfully,  She has able assistants, certainly
but her impressive presence and her dignity
of demeanor is an inspirafion to her able
corps of workers all throughout the land of
Zion. The name of Louie B. Felt and of
Aurelia S. Rogers (who first originated the
idea of this now mammoth organization) will
be engraven in the annals of Church history
and cherished forever throughout Latter-day
Israel.					EDITOR.


