R. S. REPORTS.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the regular 48th Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Uintah Stake
held at Jensen ward house June 13, 1909,
beginning at 2 p. m.
	There were on the stand Elder Don B.
Colton of the Stake Presidency and other
brethren, also a goodly number of Relief
Society officers, President Nancy A. Colton
presiding. After opening exercises the sac-
rament was administered. Roll called 8
stake and 19 ward officers present. Mrs.
Nancy A. Colton felt to welcome all present
and was pleased to see so many, thought in
holding conference Sunday afternoons that
we would have more of the brethren present
She gave the sisters counsel in regard to
their duties, spoke against slander, said if
we have the Spirit of the Lord it will guide
us aright.
	Song from Naples Ward by a group of Re-
lief Society workers.
	Lecture by Mrs. Mary Gehran, entitled
“Moderation, Extremes, Self-restraint,
Amusements, Diversions, Excursions, So-
cial Gatherings, Late hours, Reading, Dress,
Parents.”
	Song from Jensen ward by a group of
young girls, entilted “The Daughters of
Zion.”
	Mrs. E. J. Stewart from Utah county,
spoke of the scenery along the road to Jen-
sen, how beautiful it was. Said in Genesis
we read where God made man in his own
image and also spoke of the spirit before it
entered the body, spoke of the time that the
Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key of
knowledge and what a blessing it had
been for women. Spoke against race
suicide and in favor of the Word of Wisdom
and what a blessing it would bring to us
if we would only obey it. The women of
the Relief Society should work together to
put down evil.
	Elder Don B. Colton, one of the stake
presidency, always made it a point to try
and visit Relief Society conference, gave an
excuse for President Smart not being pres-
ent, spoke of the home and the boys’ and
girls characters being built at home, of the
Church schools and the work we have to do
in rearing this great multitude of children.
Made estimate of the money that was spent
to keep up the navy and the money that was
spent to educate the children. Spoke of
the restoration of the Gospel and the auxi-
liary organizations of the Church. Alluded
to the academy building, that is to be built
in Uintah Stake in the near future. Recita-
tion from Jensen ward by Amber Timothy.
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham spoke of what
a great blessing the Church schools are, also
made a few closing remarks, spoke of our
Stake annual conference to be held August


20. Thanked the sisters of Jensen for their
hospitality.
	Singing, after which conference ad-
journed for three months to be held in
Maeser, Benediction by Elder Andrew
Dudley,		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.


