WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth and four of
her lovely daughters left Salt Lake City, ac-
companied by her husband, P. T Farns-
worth, Esq., for an extended trip abroad.
It will be a delightful change for her and
for the young ladies, who are all just out of
school, or college, some of them with sig-
nificant titles, B. S. and B. A. and so on.
They sailed from Montreal, after traveling over
the delightful Canadian country. We shall
miss Mrs. Farnsworth very much, because
she was such an active member of our Gen-
eral Relief Society and was always ready
and willing to do and to go whenever and
wherever duty called. We wish them a de-
lightful trip over the ocean and through
European cities and visiting historic scenes
and countries, and a safe return to their
beautiful home in this city.

	On the 10th of June the anniversary meet-
ing for the election of officers of the Utah
State Society Daughters of the Revolution was
held in the Woman’s Exponent office Tem-
pleton Building, the Regent, Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright, in the chair. Reports of retir-
ing officers of the year just closed were
given, showing some advancement had been
made and in social events quite enjoyable.
One regretable circumstance had taken
place, viz. the death of a valued member,
Mrs. Eliza Titcomb of this city; whose
demise while sojourning temporarily in
Southern California, had taken place. Mrs,
Titcomb had endeared herself to all the
Daughters of the Society, because of her
gentleness and sociability, although she came
among them a stranger from the East. The
newly elected officers are Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, Regent, Mrs. Emily H. C.Willey First
Vice Regent, Mrs. Julia F. Lund, Second Vice
Regent, Mrs. Clarice Y. Spencer Recording
Secretary, Mrs. Ella W. Hyde Cor.
Sec. Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber Treas-
urer, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth
Historian, Mrs Lucy W. Smith Registrar,
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall Chaplain. The
Society will meet for tbe term, September
16, 1909.

	A very delightful party was given by the
eldest daughter of Mrs. Catherine Brock-
bank to a few of her mother’s old friends
on the anniversary of her birthday at
the old home of the family in this city.
Mrs. Brockbank wore her wedding gown of
long ago and gave us some of the interest-
ing details of the event. There were some
of the dear old friends of her girlhood in-
vited. Miss Elizabeth Brockbank, the eld-
est daughter had not informed her mother
of this party until the time arrived, but
everything worked like a charm. Reminis-
cences of girlhood days were very entertain-
ing; when old friends meet the hours fly
quickly. Among the company were Sisters
Amelia McDonald Mary P. Young, Phyllis
H. Ferguson, Kate Johnson, Aunt Emm.
Wells, Emma S. Woodruff and others.

	Mrs. T. G. Webber gave a party for her
mother, Mrs. Charlotte F. Richards on the
afternoon of Saturday, May 12, 1909, at her
elegant home in this city. The guests were
dear old friends of her mother’s and they
were most delightfully entertained. Every-
thing that the hostess, Mrs. Webber, could
devise was done that her mother might en-
joy the companionship of those she had
known familiarly in the early days in the
valley, and some of the friends of her girl-
hood in dear old England had been bidden

[Column 2]
to the feast. Words cannot express the
pleasure it gives one advanced in years to
meet with those whom they have been
strongly attached to when the hearts were
young and spirits buoyant. The tables were
a picture with snowy linen, vases of delicate
flowers, and all the dainty china, cut glass,
and elegant silver, as well as the most appe-
tizing viands of great variety. At the head
of the table sat the lady in whose honor the
feast was given, next her Mrs. Samuel Rich-
ards and Mrs. Nannah Richards on the
other side, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Mrs. Hannah C. Wells, and so
on. Other tables were filled with charming
women and lively conversation was kept up
—after retiring to the parlor, some lady
gave us music, and a few of these dear old
friends danced a little to the music as in the
days when they were young. Mrs. Webber
certainly gave her mother’s old friends a
great pleasure bringing those ladies together
who some of them had not seen each other
for years.

	Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry and Mrs. Emily
S. Richards left for Buffalo early this month
to attend the conference of Charities and
Corrections where Mrs. Dusenberry had been
scheduled for an address and appointed by
the Governor of Utah. From there they
went to Toronto to attend the International
Quinquennial Council and Congress, of
which so much has been said in the daily
papers. This International Quinquennial
was held in Berlin in 1904, when several of our
sisters went across to Germany and attended
its sessions. July 16, some of the leading
ladies of the International Council are ex-
pected to stop over a few hours in this city
en route from Seattle to the East, after
calling here, they will visit Denver and
Colorado Springs, Detroit and Chicago on
their way.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
To the Executive Session of the National
Council of Women of the U. S. held in
	Union City, Indiana, 1908.
Madam President and Dear Friends:—
	It is two years last April since we made a
report of this Society to the Council. We re-
gret that we were not able to take part in
the Executive Session at Jamestown. Never-
theless we do feel that the Council has been
in the past a very great incentive, and bene-
fit to all who have allied themselves with
this magnificent organization in which we
take a deep interest.
	We rejoice in the great work undertaken
by the noble women, who have participated
therein, and feel they are in the largest sense
benefactors of humanity.
	When the San Francisco disaster occurred,
soon after the Executive Session of the Council
in Toledo, Ohio, and in which our beloved
President, Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, met with
such an irreparable loss, (which we all sin-
cerely deplored, and deeply sympathized
with her and all who suffered), the officers
of our Society called a meeting at the head-
quarters and appointed a Committee at
large, and the same day the Relief work pro-
gressed so rapidly that on the same night
after the appointment, a car having been
put at the disposal of said Committee was
loaded with the necessary articles of food
and clothing and bedding, etc. for imme-
diate relief, and sent to the Red Cross Com-
mittee in San Francisco; and a telegram

[Column 2]
dispatched to the Mayor of the City appris-
ing him of the coming car with full particu-
lars; and our President received a letter of
acknowledgment from the Mayor himself. A
car load of flour was also sent soon after
from the Relief Society organisation of Bing-
ham County, Idaho. Donations were made
at different times later on by the Society
until there was no further need of help.
	When the famine occurred in China and a
call was made public, the National Woman’s
Relief Society in Conference assembled pas-
sed a resolution to send a car load of flour,
which was soon forwarded and word came to
the Governor of the State that it had been
received.
	Thus you will perceive our storing of grain
has been available for charity outside our
own locality, and domain.
	At the time of the great International
Woman Suffrage Conference in Amsterdam,
Holland, last June, a member of our Board
of Directors of the N. W. R. S., Dr. Romania
B. Penrose was appointed by the Governor
of Utah to speak upon Woman Suffrage in
Utah at the great Convention in Amsterdam,
which we very much appreciated and which
appointment the women of Holland seemed
to think a great honor. Dr. Penrose made
a telling address, which was received with
enthusiasm by the assembly, and was warm-
ly applauded. Our Society was desirous of
having a representative in Geneva, Switzer-
land, at the meeting there in October of that
year. We expected Mrs. Emily S. Richards,
who was traveling in Europe at that time
would attend that Council meeting, but she
failed to be there at the right time, which
we regretted very much.
	Aside from these important things our So-
ciety has been doing regular duty in all its
departments and in all localities and coun-
tries throughout the world where there are
branches established auxiliary to the General
Society.
	All the early members of the National
Council of Women know much of our Soci-
ety, its thorough organization and its careful
equipment for active service, also its aims
and aspirations. It is based upon the broad-
est fundamental principles of charity, bene-
volence and philanthropy, but it also inclu-
des in its curriculum, if one may use the
term, education in every line possible to be
undertaken outside of schools and colleges,
for the uplifting of womanhood and the rear-
ing of children.
	The N. C. W., through former reports
made to the Council, is aware of the depart-
ment of the School of Nurses, under the au-
spices of the Society, with competent women
physicians in charge, through which we are
able to get much charity service done as
practical training and giving the girls ex-
perience, which is helpful in our Society
work among the needy, and is of immense
benefit to the young women themselves, and
gives them a better and more systematic
preparation for wifehood and motherhood,
which are the greatest sciences of life for all
women, if they are to follow the first com-
mandment given in the Holy Scriptures,
viz: “Be fruitful and multiply and replenish
the earth and subdue it.”
	Along this line too is our Mother’s work,
which was clearly explained in our last re-
port, and is published in the Council Report
of Proceedings in 1906; since then the work
has developed and extended and become a
great blessing and help to mothers in their
home life, especially those who have not
had the advantages of schools and college
training, and whose days have been spent


in domestic employment in secluded places.
	More houses for meetings of our Society,
and granaries for care of wheat, etc., have
been built through efforts af the women of
these organizations in their respective locali-
ties, and libraries in the halls, and in some
instances help rendered to those who have
suffered from loss by fire, as well as other
misfortunes. In one instance in this city
a widow with several children dependent upon
her, had her home and household goods
burned. The Relief Society in that locality
raised the money to pay for one half of the
new building, and to make good the furn-
ture, etc.
	Some years ago the N. W. R. S. and the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. began collecting money
for an appropriate and commodious Woman’s
Building; it is now in course of erection on
Main Street, exactly opposite the Salt Lake
Temple, and it is expected the edifice will
be completed, ready for dedication and sub-
sequently for use very soon.
	Another pleasing feature we are glad to
mention is that one of our young men here
in Utah, who has studied abroad, has been
employed to paint for the Society a large
and magnificent portrait of our General Pre-
sident, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, and of
the General Secretary, Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells, and of Mrs. Jane S. Richards, first
Vice President of our Society for thirteen
years with Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Presi-
dent. Mrs. Richards is well known to the
Council through attending the Triennials of
the Council and Executive sessions, and also
the Congress of Representative Women held
in connection with the Columbian Exposition
in 1893.
	In closing we must record the death while
in active service for the Society, on a mis-
sion of importance some distance away, of
one of our Board of Directors, Mrs. Elizabeth
J. Stevenson. It may truthfully be said of
her, she was diligent in season and out of
season, untiring in activity, wise in counsel,
and full of devotion to God, her religion and
her adopted country, (for she was born in
the Isle of Jersey, but came to America and
to Utah when a young girl in her teens).
She was an earnest and zealous advocate of
equal suffrage, and stood firm for the best
and highest education for all. Though we
mourn the loss of friends and comrades, we
are fully assured that Mrs. Stevenson has
gone to her rest and her reward is sure.
	Our Delegate, who is also Proxy for the
President, will be able to make any explana-
tion that may be required concerning our
Society, of which we are so justly proud, and
we bid the Council God speed in their good
work, the best interests of all concerned.
	With greetings from the President and of-
ficers of the National Woman’s Relief So-
ciety,
			Respectfully submitted
				EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.


