WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			BEAVER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Beaver
Stake convened at Relief Society Hall,
Beaver City, Friday, May 14, 1909, at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m. There were present Pat-
riarch George Mumford and Stake Clerk
William G. Bickley.
	President Cedaressa C. Shepherd presided.
	After the opening exercises and roll call
reports were given by the presidents of the
ward organizations, who expressed them-
selves as deeply interested in Relief Soci-
ety work.
	President Shepherd reported the visits of
herself and other members of the board to
all the wards in the stake, which with the
exception of one, were found to be in a live,
active condition.
	Stake Counselor Harriet Fotheringham
gave an interesting account of her four
years’s mission in St. George Temple, and
urged the sisters to interest themselves more
in the beautiful, noble work, either by going
themselves or sendiug means that others
might be able to do it.
	An interesting and timely lecture entit-
led “Keep Holy the Sabbath Day,” was
given by Sister Bradfield of Minersville.
Vocal solo, Sister Maggie Easton, of Green-
ville.
	Sister Jane W. Bickley had enjoyed the
remarks this morning, and thought the say-
ing of our Savior was verified this morning
that where two or three are gathered togeth-
er He also would be there. Said the moral
taught in the lecture was indeed timely.
Let us as parents set the example and our
children will follow. Sister Doressa Robin-
son spoke in the interest of the Primary as-
sociations, and encouraged parents to bring
their children and visit themselves to see
what is being taught their children.
	Sisters Lightner, Agnes Hutchings and
Annie Vincent bore their testimonies to the
great good of this benevolent cause, and
were thankful to be workers in the same,
gave words of encouragement to the sisters.
	Brother William G. Bickley said he
believed that these conferences helped to
warm us up to our duties and made us
stronger and more faithful to the work, also
spoke on the beauties and wonders of the
Gospel. Encouraged all to work with a
will, to gain the blessings given to the
faithful.
	After singing and prayer recess was taken
until 2 p. m.
	At the afternoon session the same officers
were present and a large attendance of
members.
	The roll showed all the wards but one
represented. Statistical and financial reports
for the year 1908 read. General and Stake
Boards sustained. Vocal solo, Sister Mary
Fernley.
	Sister Nancy Rollins reported the Mur-
dock Academy branch, had only thirteen
enrolled, but thought when school started
again they would be able to do a good work.
Stake Counselor Mary A. White made inter-

[Column 2]
esting remarks on our duties as officers and
members, also on having love and charity
for all, and the training of our half-grown
girls, and gave words of encouragement to
the young mothers.
	Recitation, “Fulfilling of Prophecy,” Sis-
ter Betsy S. Goodwin. Sisters Mary Morris,
Irene Farnsworth and Mary Frazer, Eliza-
beth Robinson and Ellen M. Skinner, each
made a few remarks relating to Relief
Society and temple work. Patriarch George
Mumford had been much pleased with the
spirit manifest today and to see all so willing
to help this work along; he had been visit-
ing every Sunday morning (with some of
the Relief Society sisters,) the aged and
infirm sisters who could not attend meetings
and administering the sacrament to them
and had indeed been well paid by so doing.
	Reading, “The Glory of Motherhood,”
Sister Mary Green. President Cedaressa C.
Shepherd expressed her pleasure at having
had such a successful conference and felt
that we had received much that would en-
courage us in our duties.
	Prayer, William G. Bickley.
		CLARISSA E. PARKINSON, Secretary.


