A SUCCESS IN NORWAY.
	Mrs. Gude, wife of the Minister from Nor-
way to the United States, before leaving
Washington for the summer gave an inter-
view to the correspondent of the Phila-
delphia Record. She said:
	“In Norway we boast of having the most
democratic constitution in the world, and
we have long been advocates of the simple
life. Our King and Queen mingle with ab-
solute freedom with the people, and the
segregation of classes is unknown. Prac-
tically we have no social unrest, and even
the women’s problem no longer vexes, since,
two years ago, the Parliamentary suffrage
was conferred on women. Municipal suf-
frage had been granted in 1901. It was
found that the experiment was eminently
successful, and that good resulted from giv-
ing women the right to vote on all that con-
cerned the welfare of their cities and town-
ships. When this was clearly demonstrated,
the Parliamentary suffrage was bestowed in
1907. The women have set to work very
earnestly to understand their civic obliga-
tions and to perform that highest duty in a
manner which will result for good to them-
selves and to their homes. An impetus has
been given to many projects which look to
improving conditions, especially in the rural
districts. In Norway, at least, women have
proved that to possess the ballot is to add
to their usefulness in the community.”
	Three-fifths of the women in Norway now
have the Parliamentary vote, and the Royal
Council has already recommended its exten-
sion to the remaining two-fifths.

	Mrs. Levisa C. Smith of Rochester, N. Y.,
who celebrated her 98th birthday on June 14,
has been identified with the great move-
ments of her time, particularly those per-
taining to tiie abolition of slavery, woman
suffrage and temperance reform. She was
an earnest co-laborer with the late Susan B.
Anthony, Mary Anthony, Amy Post, and
Lucy Stone. Mrs. Smith retains to a re-
markable degree all her faculties and three
years ago published a volume of her poems.
	At the Suffrage meeting in connection
with the International Council of Women,
Lady Aberdeen said:
	“I have never before spoken on the ques-
tion of suffrage for women chiefly because
my husband, the Earl of Aberdeen, Lord
Lieutenant of Ireland, occupies a high posi-
tion in public affairs, but after hearing what
has been said tonight before the audience
by women from every part of the world I
can no longer keep silent.”
	At the World’s Congress of Women at
Toronto Lady Aberdeen was re-elected pre-
sident; and her cousin, Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon,
from secretary to first vice-president of the
Congress. Besides Lady Aberdeen and Mrs.
Gordon, the officers elected on Saturday are:
Second vice-president, Countess Spallatti, of
Italy; third vice-president, Frau Heinisch,
of Belgium; corresponding secretary, Dr.
Alice Salomon, Germany; recording secre-
tary, Dr. Alexander Skoglumb, of Norway
treasurer, Mrs. W. E. Sanford, of Hamilon,
Ont.; honorary president, Mrs. May Wright
Sewall.


