SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	JUNE, 1909.


[Column 1]
A GREAT DAY FOR OLD PEOPLE.
	A wonderful day for elderly people was
planned by the “Old Folks Committee” for
the 29th day of June this year. The arrange-
ment was to entertain those over seventy
years of age North of Salt Lake as far as
Brigham City and South to Payson. From
this distance with the aged citizens of Salt
Lake City it made an immense crowd. It is
estimated there were 4,000 or more on the
Temple square, in the Tabernacle grounds,
and they certainly were royally entertained.
Every detail of the plan was carefully
thought out by the Central Committee, Pre-
siding Bishop C. W. Nibley in charge, and
the Ladies Entertainment Committee for
guests of honor were under the direction of
Mrs. Rebecca Nibley, the Bishop’s wife.
	The Relief Society Presidents of the four
Stakes of Zion in the City limits, took charge
of a certain number besides their own aged
ones in the matter of luncheon, and they
spared no pains or expense; everything in
the way of variety, all the delicacies of
the season were provided for the comfort,
pleasure and refreshment of the brethren and
sisters, who came from a distance as well as
those who live here.
	The Bishops of the several wards rendered
valuable assistance to the Relief Society, and
the young women and girls waited at tables,
and did all that was possible to gratify and
please the visitors, those venerable fathers
and mothers; and it is always a joy and
delight to minister to those who have toiled
so many long years, assuredly they deserve
consideration from the young and strong.
	The Tabernacle grounds were pleasant
and well shaded by the trees, and presented
a very beautiful picture, and the enjoyment
of old acquaintances in meeting was gratify-
ing and to witness these things would com-
pensate for any extra pains taken by the
Committee. The smiling countenances of
many of them as they greeted old friends
were something of a study.
	The services in the large tabernacle were
very interesting, and the music on the
grounds and elsewhere was of the very best.
The organ of course gave great delight to
music lovers, and the services were not long
enough to be tiresome. There were no dis-
turbances and no accidents to mar the day’s
pleasure.
	The railroad officials gave free transporta-
tion to the elderly people to and from the 
City and the street car company and auto-
mobiles and carriages were also at their dis-

[Column 2]
posal free of charge, and nothing was left
undone that would give added pleasure.
	Governor Spry and Mayor Bransford wel-
comed the visitors in the most gracious way
with public addresses in the Tabernacle, and
all who sang or who spoke were most kind
and considerate and lovely, but it was very
apparent that the congregation inside the
Tabernacle were specially gratified by the
address of President Joseph F. Smtth.
	It was quite evident that Brother C. R.
Savage was greatly missed, he was really the
“jolly old soul” who always knew just what
would be the fitting pastime of these unique
occasions.
	The flowers were profuse and beautiful
and there was no lack of courtesy and glad
welcomes all around.
	It was a most fitting celebration and all
who participated in any way, or who gave of
their means must feel they were honored in
bestowing honors on those worthy veterans
of the former days. No welcome that could
be extended is too much, or too good for
these blessed veterans who have grown grey
and feeble in the master’s service as most of
those who assemble on these annual oc-
casions have; many of them have left their
own dear native land for the Gospel’s sake,
and endured hardship and privation on sea
and land, yet continued faithful and true.
	Looking over an assembly of this kind
composed almost entirely of aged and some
infirm people is pathetic to say the least;
and to all who contribute to these entertain-
ments with means or by other service there
must be a sort of recompense in knowing
they have helped to make one day happier
and sweeter to those whose lives are nearing
the other shore.


