lovely farmhouse. And the farmer was standing out in front, and his gardens were nice and his fence was all painted, and this man stopped and said to the farmer, "You and the Lord have surely made a fine looking farm out of this." And the farmer spoke up and said: "Yes, but you ought to have seen it when the Lord had it alone."
The point I want to make here is that Sister Spafford and her counselors could not have done it alone; the Lord could not have done it alone unless he followed a miraculous manner, not his usual way of doing. He gave the ideas. He made it possible. And I tell you my confidence and faith is that if we could go all over this Church and know just how much the Lord did in putting the inspiration into the hearts of the individual women and the local organizations to make it possible, we would know that the Lord has been in this program in a very substantial manner, but nevertheless, the Lord has to have someone to help it out. So you good Relief Society sisters and the Lord have done a magnificent work out of this assignment that was made to you.
Along that line, I want to read from the Sunshine Magazine, entitled "If My Hands Slacken:" The smallest roadside pool has its water from the skies and its gleam from the sun and can hold the stars in its bosom. Even so the humblest person can live splendidly and have a valued share in the economy of the universe. That is the royal truth that we need to believe, we who think we have no mission and no great sphere in which to move. The universe is not complete without our work well done.
Let us not forget the lesson of Antonius Stradivarius whose violins, two hundred years old, are worth their weight in gold. Says Stradivarius, in Mary Ann Evans' immortal poem of that name: "If my hands slacken, I should rob God—since He is fullest good—leaving a blank instead of violins. He could not make Antonius Stradivarius violins without Antonius."
Now, I like that thinking. Even though the Lord provides all the facilities, he has to have someone through whom he can work. I do not know whether or not you know how much a violin like this is worth, but about a year and a half ago, we had one here in Salt Lake. It was brought out of Poland during the war by a refugee, and when he crossed the border line to get past the Germans he had to play some ragtime or swing, or whatever you call it, so that he would mislead the guards and not attach any particular importance to the violin, but when the Germans found that it had been permitted to get out of Poland, they put to death the man who had had the custody and ownership of the violin.
I said to the man who played it: "That must be a very valuable instrument. What is it really worth?" "Oh, I do not know," he said. "I am carrying fifty thousand dollars insurance on it."
Now, even the Lord could not make Antonius Stradivarius violins without Antonius, and you will have this monument standing to your credit, as the Savior said, that will be a memorial just as long as this Church shall stand.
Now, I think that it is proper that we build well. Some of you think that it might be a little extravagant. Sister Evans read some of the statements of Ruskin on building. I would like to pick it up from there and read another statement he made about building. When we build, let us think that we build forever. Let it not be for present delight, nor for present peace alone; let it be such work as our descendants will thank us for, and let us think as we lay stone on stone, that a time is to come when those stones will be held sacred because our hands have touched them, and that men will say, as they look upon the labor and wrought substance of them, see, this our fathers (our mothers) did for us.
And you remember the story they tell about when President Brigham Young made the contract for laying the foundation of this temple, which is sixteen feet wide.
He came here one day and found the contractor throwing in chipped granite instead of those huge blocks, and he made him tear them all out and put in the blocks, with the statement: "We are building this temple to stand through the millennium." E were riding down First Avenue some few years ago with the First Presidency, and President Grant said: "Bishop, stop your car here a minute," and I did, and he said: "I never look at that temple from this point but what I think of the pioneers who undertook to build a building of that magnitude when they were a thousand miles away from transportation and had nothing but their hands to build with. What faith and courage." They were not building for today. They were building, as President Brigham Young said, that it might stand through the millennium. And that is the type of building that the Relief Society has planned to build, one that will stand as long as this earth continues in its present form and for its present purposes until we will have a new heaven and a new earth, and with all