ansomed for us Are my integrity. Their voices are heard in the mechanized din And wherever the word of freedom has been: The cadence of creature and crag is strong, As sunlight, and heartthrob—: And unwritten song. Xa The Cover: The Grand Tetons, photograph by Hal Rumel. VR OR GOS 5; ' it. -, ke i paket lt p lt rg rere cee pm ote _— SS coca Warren Lee "TREE TRACERIES AT ALTA, UTAH" A Memorial to the Relief Society Sisters Bishop LeGrand Richards Presiding Bishop of the Church (Address delivered at the morning session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 30, 1948). Think you are wonderful. I believe the Lord thinks you are wonderful. I know what Sister Spafford and her counselors think of you because we have talked and visited together a good many times about what you have done. When you launched your Building program a year ago, I did not have any misgivings. I knew you would do it. You are the only one hundred per centers we have in the Church, in fact, I think you might call yourselves the One Hundred Per Cent Club or organization, if you would like to, and it would always be that because, well, having been a bishop of three different wards and president of a stake, and now for ten years having served as adviser to the General Relief Society Presidency, I have paraphrased the old statement that if you want anything done give it to the busy man, and I say, "If you want anything done give it to the Relief Society." 'They never fail. I do not know how many of you have heard Brother Thomas E. McKay's little story about when he was at a stake welfare meeting recently. They were just going to close the meeting when he said, "Oh, president, we have not heard from the Relief Society and we sure ought to have a word from them." And so the stake president called the president of the Relief Society of the stake and she stood up and said: "Brother McKay, the Relief Society is behind the Priesthood one hundred per cent," and the president of the stake stood up and said: "Yes, President McKay, and the Priesthood is behind the Relief Society one hundred years." Now, if there ever comes a day when we can call the Priesthood of this Church the One Hundred Per Cent Club, it will be a great day for the Church I can assure you. When this program was first launched I think the sisters had some little misgivings because there were rumblings went out over the Church and there were some who had adverse criticisms to offer. When the sisters told me just now that I would have more than three minutes, I picked up the Bible and thought of the little experience when Jesus went into the home of Simon the leper at Bethany, and you will remember the criticism there. There were some of the same kind of disciples in our midst in our day, who said: "Why do you not take that money and build an old folks' home? Or why do you not take it and give it to the poor instead of building a home like that for the Relief Society? I think this is apropos enough that I would like to read from the Page 75 76 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 twenty-sixth chapter of Matthew the experience the Savior had along this same line with the disciples of his day. Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head as he sat at meat. Sister Spafford just told you how some of this money was acquired to make these contributions to this great Relief Society fund, and I imagine that it probably cost this woman who had this alabaster box of special ointment a large sum, too, and who knows how much knitting she did in order to acquire it, but, nevertheless, we are told here that she poured it on the Savior's head as he sat at meat. But when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor. When Jesus understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? For she hath wrought a good work upon me. For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always. For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memonal of her (Mt. 26:8-13). OU see it is over two thousand years but the story is still being told, but if the ointment had been sold to feed the poor, or care for the poor, there would have been no story to tell, but she poured it upon his head as he sat at meat, and I would like to say to you sisters who have made contributions to make this building possible, that wherever this gospel shall go, throughout all the world, and until the final winding up scene, this shall stand, the thing that you have done, as a memorial to you, and it shall never be forgotten. Probably none of us can underestimate the value of the parable Jesus taught about the man who traveled in a far country, and left his talents with his servants. When he returned and held an accounting with them, the one who had received the five talents and had won another five, to him the Master said:.. » Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou has been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. And if the Master were here today to speak, he would tell you that in this assignment that was made to you that you have been faithful. You have measured up a hundred per cent. We could not have asked more. Sister Sharp has told you of some of the incidental contributions, some of them of magnitude that have come, that are more than what has actually been asked for. Now, I know that the sisters had some concern because one day they brought me a letter from one stake president who said they had decided they had to take care of their welfare building first and then they would think about the other later, and so I wrote that stake president, because the Relief Society Presidency were just a little concerned, and when we received a reply from the stake president saying: "Don't worry, our contribution will be there," we did not worry any more. I happened to be in Idaho Falls attending a stake conference of the South Idaho Falls Stake, and I feel A MEMORIAL TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS 71 that stake is entitled to credit here today, for those sisters had all of their contributions in and theirs was the first stake in the Church to go over the top, and we were so eager we even called Sister Spaffor