in the shadow of the temple. It should be a place to receive strangers in when they come, a place where letters can be written from, and information given. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the sisters in Nauvoo a lot belonging to the Church and a house on it which could be repaired and made useful. We need a house of our own here. Now I want to ask you sisters if you want such a building as I have described. (SOUND: VOICES IN APPROVAL.) Narrator: 'They wanted it, of course. The voting was unanimous. But it takes more than votes to build a building. It took, among other things, the Sunday eggs. LITTLE GIRL: Oh goody, Mamma! Forty-eight of 'em today. MOTHER: That's just grand, Betsy. Put 'em in the case. LITTLE GIRL: The Relief Society Case, Mamma? MOTHER: Yes, Dear. Page 88 THE SYMBOL OF A DREAM 89 FATHER: Hmmm! Forty-eight! Looks to me like you've got those hens on your side, Emmy. I swear they never lay like that any other day of the week. (FADE) Narrator: Yes, it took the Sunday eggs. And it took the wool from the wire fences and posts and bushes after the flocks had left the enclosure. (FADE) MOTHER: There's some more down by that post, Betsy. BETSY: Oh, Mamma! Haven't we got enough now? MOTHER: Run down and get it. The exercise'll do you good. BETSY: You mean it'll do the Relief Society good! Narrator: Yes, it took the wool. And it took the wheat—wheat gleaned from the fields after the harvesters had gone—Relief Society wheat—a story in itself. To build that building took the co-operative help of the Mutual and Primary Associations. President Lorenzo Snow spoke of the joint project in the pages of the Woman's Exponent in July of 1901: PRESIDENT SNOW: We commend the undertaking and have contributed a valuable building site opposite the temple, valued at $18,000. The women must have $20,000 before commencing the house. NARRATOR: $20,000! That was a lot of money for those days. But Sister Zina was not discouraged. Before a year passed, though, both she and President Lorenzo Snow had been called to the other side. Joseph F. Smith was the next Church President; Bathsheba W. Smith the next Relief Society President. Under her leadership funds continued to be collected for the women's building. But in 1908, the plans were changed; and it was decided that they should include quarters for the Presiding Bishopric. Thus the dream of a woman's building, as such, had to be abandoned temporarily. We contributed $8,000 towards the construction of the Bishop's Building, as it came to be called, and moved into our offices there in December 1909. We've appreciated the offices, yes. But you know how you feel when you've been living with relatives and then get a chance to move into a home of your own. And sometimes, the relatives are a little anxious, too. Elder Marvin O. Ashton had a colorful way of expressing it, when in our Relief Society conference three years ago, he said in his own humorous way: BISHOP ASHTON: If we are perfectly honest with you, and sometimes we are, we should say something like this to President Spafford, "Success to you in this building." And as the host said to his guests, "Here's your hat, but what's your hurry?" Our building over there is crowded. You need a new building and so do we need more elbow room. Success to you! I hope I have the privilege of contributing to it. And I'm sure I won't be denied. Narrator: Today, we talk of our building as a dream about to be fulfilled. We talk of it as Sister Spafford did in October conference, three years ago: 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 SISTER SPAFFORD: We want our building to belong to the women of the Church, and to have every Relief Society woman feel the pride of ownership in it. We want it to do more than house the general offices. We want it to be of service to all of you. We expect to include in it a comfortable lounge, where you may come and rest, write a letter, or meet a friend; check-rooms where you may leave your bundles; a relic room where choice articles of historic value may be preserved and displayed; an auditorium; well-equipped work and exhibition kitchens where homemaking demonstrations and lectures may be given. And we would like at this time to know your attitude towards the proposed building program. 'Therefore, just as our sisters of long ago called for a vote on this identical proposition, so today, forty-nine years later, we too are calling for a vote of this great congregation. (SOUND: VOICES IN APPROVAL.) Narrator: Again the voting was unanimous. Yes, we talk of a building. And talk of it was high that conference day in 1945. President George Albert Smith said: PRESIDENT SMITH: It's appropriate that you women of the Church of Jesus Christ, the only Church that bears his name by divine authority, should have a home of your own into which you can invite the spirit of the Lord when you hold your meetings. I realize you have been disappointed in the past; you thought you had a house of your own once before, but it turned out to be the Presiding Bishop's office also. But now your prospect seems better, and as you think about it and plan for it, you will be very happy. I don't care how fine it is, it will not be better than you deserve. There isn't anything too good for you as long as you keep the commandments of the Lord. You may be sure that if you do your part, the Lord will do his. Narrator: "If you do your part, the Lord will do his." It is good to know as we dream our building that our sisters of the past have done their part—just as you, in a large measure, have done yours. It is symbolic that the library of the building we dream will carry many precious documents and words—the words, for example, of Sister Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of the Prophet Joseph, who, in the second meeting the Relief Society organization ever held, said: LUCY SMITH: This institution is a good one. We must cherish one another; watch over one another and gain instruction, that we may all sit down in heaven together. Narrator: And we have cherished one another.
As Sister Marianne Sharp put it:
SISTER SHARP: Ever since Sister Lyman appointed Sister Spafford and me to help prepare the book, A Centenary of Relief Society, to commemorate the hundredth birthday of the society, I have felt very near to the Relief Society leaders of the past and the faithful members who are the mothers, the grandmothers, and even great-grandmothers of the members today. They have stepped out alive to me from the pages of the Woman's Exponent, and from the minutes of the general board. Their testimonies have increased my testimony. I have shared in their joys and sorrows.
Narrator: And when you look at the portraits of our Relief Society leaders of the past, you know what Sister Sharp means. You see a solidarity of purpose shining in their eyes. You sense their courage and their faith. And it is a thrill to know that in the building of which we speak, they too will be personalities. We do not leave them behind; we take them with us; and we are greater because of them. They dreamed this building along with us, and it will be theirs, too—a building great because its purposes are great—because it will bear the name of a society whose purpose it is to serve the people, to comfort the sorrowful, to minister to the sick and the dying, to clothe the naked, and to soothe the distressed; to serve human need wherever it exists, as it will ever exist. And in this we can do no better than to beseech the Father that he give us charity and the pure love of Christ.
VOICE (Echoing... Resonant) Therefore, whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock (Matt. 7:24-25).
Narrator: Our building has not yet been erected, but our prayer is that we, and the sisters who have gone before us, have succeeded in laying for it, the foundation our Lord would have us lay—a foundation of true charity unto his people.
[Lighting of foundation of building.] Charity never faileth!
Salt Lake Tabernacle, September 30, 1948
Representatives of stakes and missions are seen standing below and to the sides of the pulpits, directly in front of the audience. The Singing Mothers are seated in the choir seats. The replica of the building may be seen in front of the organ pipes.
From the Shadow of a Dream to the Sunlight of Promise
Vesta P. Crawford (Prepared under the direction of Priscilla L. Evans, Member, Relief Society General Board)
[Continuity read by Sister Evans at the annual general Relief Society conference in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Thursday morning, September 30, 1948, at the general session held in recognition of the Building Fund achievement.]
You, as the women of this day and year, come not as builders of that which is new, but you come as interpreters of a dream, as heirs of a high destiny. You are of the house and of the lineage of eternal builders. You add your illumination of ideals and the practical strength of your hands to build the sunlit walls of an edifice for women who love light and truth—women who have demonstrated the strength and beauty of their sisterhood. You stand in the brief, bright moment of the present, looking with love and appreciation upon the brave builders of the past—looking with hope and steadfast vision to the future. You are that golden link in time, binding the historic days which have been to the widening years to come.
South Idaho Falls
Teton Mesa
Seattle
Idaho Falls
Granite
Rexburg
South Los Angeles
San Diego
North Idaho Falls
Uinta
Juarez
Wells
Emigration Utah
Florida
Temple View
(The first window is lit as the last woman stands. All remain standing.)
Inheritors of truth and faith
Who keep the precious dream
Shall build the house of beauty
And see the windows gleam.
The work of God's dominion
Is given to your hand,
And, from your home of service,
Shall reach to every land.
(The first group sits down. Two windows remain lit.)
(REPRESENTATIVES OF SECOND GROUP STAND AS LAST WOMAN STANDS THE SECOND WINDOW IS LIT. Women REMAIN STANDING.)
Bear River
Smithfield
Oneida
Grant
Parowan
Sugar House
Tooele
East Provo
Cedar
Salt Lake
San Juan
American Falls
Liberty
San Luis
Sevier
Oquirrh
(Page 92)
East Rigby
The vision that your mothers knew
Is like a mantle spread,
And their prophetic blessings
Shine glorious on your head.
As daughters of the promise
Your stately house shall be
A lasting symbol of your dream—
The home of charity!
(THE second group sits down. Three windows remain lit.)
(REPRESENTATIVES OF THIRD GROUP STAND AS LAST WOMAN STANDS THE THIRD WINDOW IS LIT. Women REMAIN STANDING.)
San Bernardino
Oahu
Long Beach
West Utah
Maricopa
West Pocatello
Nampa
Inglewood
San Francisco
Taylor
Ben Lomond
Palo Alto
Weiser
Wayne
East Mill Creek
Lehi
Ogden
(The fourth window is lit as the last woman stands.)
As Latter-day Saints we know that a spiritual creation precedes our coming to this earth, and in keeping with this lofty concept, the hopes and the dreams for our future accomplishments rise within our spirits before they find expression in temporal form upon the earth, and in turn our efforts as builders beautify and develop our personalities for an everlasting purpose.
There is no stone so strong
As the light in the builder's eyes,
And far beyond the walls of earth
The towers of the spirit rise!
(The third group sits down. Four windows remain lit.)
San Fernando
North Rexburg
Grantsville
Davis
Hillside
Mount Ogden
Blackfoot
East Cache
South Ogden
Cassia
Bonneville
Highland
Timpanogos
Palmyra
Burley
Hyrum
Morgan
(The fourth window is lit as the last woman stands.)
"This society shall rejoice." So spoke our Prophet and founder. We do rejoice. This is a day of heartfelt gratitude, for today many blessings have been made manifest; our hopes and our plans have matured and our dreams have come to pass. Today we have passed from the shadow of a dream to the sunlight of a promise.
(Fourth group sits down. Four windows remain lit.)
(The first group stands.)
North Sevier
South Summit
Lyman
Chicago
Pasadena
West Jordan
Snowflake
Portneuf
Phoenix
Minidoka
South Carolina
Reno
Provo
Franklin
Big Cottonwood
Rigby
Benson
(The fourth window is lit as the last woman stands.)
This building which we in our time shall erect shall be a monument not alone of steel and stone, but it shall stand as a watch in the night, as a symbol of the standard which we have lifted before the eyes of women everywhere, and as we use this building, always let us pray: "So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom."
(The first group sits down. Four windows remain lit.)
Five Windows REMAIN LIGHTED.) (Sixth Group STANDS.) Lethbridge Garfield Montpelier Panguitch San Joaquin Gridley Mount Jordan Saint Joseph Bear Lake Humboldt New York Young Cottonwood Kanab North Carbon Orem Star Valley (Sixth Window Is LitTep as Last Woman STANDS.) In years to come it shall be said that many willing hands erected this building and many generous spirits contributed to its beauty. That this monument was not built by the few, but by the many. Your daughters and their daughters shall say: "Our mothers builded well in the pattern and in the design of a people who look forward, and well they knew that 'too low they build who build beneath the stars.' " (Sixth Group Sirs Down. Sixth Window REMAIN LIGHTED) (SEVENTH Group STANDS.) Deseret Mount Logan Sharon Pocatello Bannock North Box Elder Southern Arizona Lake View Gunnison North Sanpete Pioneer Saint Johns Logan Emery East Jordan South Sanpete Alpine (SEVENTH Window Is LitTep as Last Woman STANDS.) More than a hundred years ago the Prophet received a command from God: "... Organize yourselves, prepare every needful thing and establish a house.... A house of faith. A house of learning.... A house of order." After this pattern the sisters have labored, and in this design shall our house be built. (SEVENTH Group Sirs Down AND SEVEN Windows REMAIN LIGHTED.) FROM THE SHADOW OF A DREAM TO THE SUNLIGHT OF PROMISE 95 (Eighth Group STANDS.) North Jordan Union Boise Malad Park North Davis Cache Mount Graham Ensign Alberta Idaho Portland Riverside Beaver Los Angeles Shelley South Salt Lake (Eighth Window Is LitTep as Last Woman STANDS.) When President Lorenzo Snow dedicated the Manti Temple, his words expressed the gratitude of a people who built with vision, with sacrifice, with magnificent purpose. He spoke of an edifice in all its parts. "its terraces, its shrubbery, with all its adornments and approaches. May they be the pathways of the just." He said, "May it stand and endure as a monument of the obedience and love of the people. That the recollection of their labors may be a source of pleasure to them and their children after them." These words of years ago re-echo to us now for, in very truth, the sisters do experience joy in "the recollection of their labors" in the erection of this their own home "built with vision, with sacrifice, with magnificent purpose." (Eighth Group Sirs Down anp EIGHT Windows Remain LitTEN.) (Ninth Group STANDS.) South Sevier Berkeley Nebo Kolob Uintah Saint George Denver Lost River Yellowstone Carbon Duchesne Moapa Zion Park Roosevelt Juab Moon Lake North Weber (Ninth Window Is LitTep as rHe Last Woman STANDS. ) Well we know that earthly structures may not forever outlast the vicissitudes of time, yet this we know, too, that the dreams, the hopes, and the labors of this sisterhood shall not have been in vain. The stature of each of you as individuals has been increased—the shadow of each has been lengthened. There is no power on the earth that can break the golden links of the united effort of this sisterhood which the Prophet Joseph blessed, giving to us a precious key—a key that will, for all time, open the door to our Relief Society home in the shadow of the temple. (Ninth Group Sirs Down anp Nine Windows Remain LitTEN.) (TENTH Group STANDS.) Nevada Summit Sacramento Oakland Raft River Wasatch Twin Falls Big Horn South Box Elder § Washington Farr West Moroni South Davis Weber Millard Woodruff Blaine Spokane Santaquin-Tintic (TENTH Window Is LitTep As THE Last Woman STANDS.) 96 "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 In generations far removed from us, our descendants will reverence this building, for it will have earned respect and will have taken on a great dignity. They will see in it the same beauty and symmetry that we see; but they will see, too, that which you and I will never see—an indescribable something age alone can impart. Ruskin calls it a "glory" and he says: "The greatest glory of a building is not in its stones or in its gold. Its glory is in its age and in that deep sense of voicefulness, of stern watching, of mysterious sympathy.... Which we feel in walls that have long been washed by the passing waves of humanity." (TENTH Group Sits AnD TEN Windows REMAIN LitTEN.) (REPRESENTATIVES OF THE Missions STAND.) Northern California Finnish South African North Central States Eastern States Western States Northwestern States Australian Samoan East Central States Central States Uruguayan Hawaiian Central Pacific Texas-Louisiana Southern States New Zealand Northern States Spanish-American Central States Palestine-Syrian California Canadian Tahitian Tongan Swedish Western Canadian New England Navajo-Zuni Mexican French Welcome to our sisters from the far-flung missions of the Church, from the distant parts of our own country, and from the remote places beyond the seas. In our ideals and in our purposes we are as one. We are as a unit in building a home from which service and inspiration shall extend to women in all parts of the earth. We are as one in seeking our Father's kingdom where the everlasting structures rise. You of the missions stand at the threshold—you open the shining door of the gospel and bid all seekers after truth to enter the spacious rooms of our Father's many mansions. It is you who have brought love and greetings and your treasures from far places to build this house. Let the door be lighted and may your devotion be to all of us forever a sign upon its threshold. (The Door Is LitTep.) As a lasting door to service— Now lighted by the many hands Who carry far the gospel's gleam, The shining portal stands! (Mission Group Sits Down.) To Zion's daughters long ago A mission was foretold, And we have brought our offerings here As prophesied of old. Eternal builders, now we come, Rejoicing to this place; From out the crested mountain lands And isles beyond the sea, In joy and gratitude we come, In faith and charity. FROM THE SHADOW OF A DREAM TO THE SUNLIGHT OF PROMISE 97 For in this hallowed valley Our stately house shall rise, With strength and love uplifted Beneath the desert skies. The sun shall gild its shining walls And beauty there abide; In welcome to the sisterhood Its doors shall open wide. Then let us come rejoicing— Our treasures now appear In blessings gleaned and gathered Throughout a glorious year! (Counselor Sharp's Address. THE PINNACLE Is LitTep As SHE ANNOUNCES THE Goat REACHED.) 'Wearing a Face Into a Mother's"' Caroline Eyring Miner TODAY as the college graduating class filed past the audience, a hand waved frantically in an attempt to attract one of the graduates. It was a mother's work-blunted hand, and as I looked at her more closely, her withered face beaming with pride and happiness, I suddenly knew what Gulbransen meant when he used in one of his books the striking phrase, "wearing a face into a mother's." How does a mother's face get the mother-look of love and pride, and forgiveness, and faith, and trust that we all know?
It is worn there day by day as a great painting is made, stroke by stroke. To a fresh, young creature whose face is classically fair and lovely, a child is born, and with its birth there comes into the fair young face faint lines of a great unselfish love that has borne pain and sorrow for another. In the years that follow there come more children, more cares, more tears, more sacrifices, and the fair young—face wears, line by line, and love-stroke by love-stroke, into the face of a mother. Not all mother faces are weathered and prematurely discolored and wrinkled; those are not the really telling marks of a mother face, but are the signs of a life of struggle on the part of an individual whether she is a mother or not. The lines on a mother's face that make it distinctly a mother's face are those that gather about her mouth when she says, as she has said hundreds of times, "Child, you didn't mean it, and I love you more than life in spite of all."
Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and 15, 1889
"For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS"
Thou brightest of all earthly gems,
How much I think of thee;
Whether in mansions of the great,
In wide domain and vast estate:
Or in the cottage of the poor,
In workman's shop or merchant's store:
Upon the land or on the sea,
There is nothing ever outshines thee.
—Charlotte Cruse Thorpe
FAIR AT ST. JOSEPH: There was a very fine display of useful and ornamental articles on exhibition; also quilts, tidies, home-made carpets and rugs, all being worthy of praise. A fine representation of statuary, including a large bust of President Brigham Young, which attracted much attention; also a display of sericulture, millinery, etc. We had on exhibition the finest of corn raised from the second crop after barley was harvested in July; also turnips weighing seven pounds, both raised by Bishop John Taylor, of Pima, and sweet potatoes weighing eleven pounds, raised by Bro. Frank Owens. Although too late in the season for a display of fruit, there was quite a variety of a superior quality raised in the valley this year. We have seen peaches measuring from nine to eleven inches, and bunches of grapes weighing from four to five pounds.
—W. East, Pres., L. Gustafson; Sec.
God of Thy children below,
Father, Redeemer and King,
Help us Thy hand e'er to know;
And in all of the perils of life
To cling to Thine Anchor of love,
To guide through the billows of strife.
—Hope
TOOELE STAKE: Minutes of the Relief Society which convened in the Tooele meeting house, Dec. 8th and 9th, 1888, Pres. Mary A. Hunter presiding. There were present from Salt Lake City, Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba W. Smith. Sister Zina D. H. Young gave some very good and interesting instructions to all, and to mothers especially, and spoke by the Spirit of God. Said, "Mothers have a great work to do and a great mission to fill in raising up their children in a proper manner. Our children who are obedient to the Gospel are a great and shining light, and we should be very careful to set a good example before them, so that they may walk in our footsteps."
—Ann Tate, Cor. Sec.
NOTES AND NEWS: Smith College, Mass., has received a gift of $5,000 toward a gymnasium. The donor was a woman. The Queen of Sweden has given a large donation to the Dress Reform Society, to enable them to open a store in Stockholm. The girl mail-carrier, of Oregon, whose home is near Eugene City, bears the euphonious name of Minnie Westman.
Except for one Copenhagen publisher, Mrs. Alfred Knopf is the only woman in the world who is a major book publisher. She is vice-president to her husband in the Knopf firm, and personally handles the writings of such writers as William Shirer, Robert Nathan, and Elizabeth Bowen.
BLIZABETH June Barlow, who won the title "Miss Utah" last fall in the talent and beauty contest at the State Fair, is an active Latter-day Saint girl, a member of the Tabernacle Choir and a ward chorister. A lovely blonde, with a winning smile, Miss Barlow feels that the training received while fulfilling her Church assignments was an important factor in her winning the crown. Singing is the talent she demonstrated.
GENEVIEVE RIVIER, of Lausanne, Switzerland, author and world traveler who is writing a book on America, called attention to a noteworthy situation, while visiting in Salt Lake City. A very high percentage of Swiss families shared what they had—and in many cases it was not a great deal—with one or more refugee children, sometimes over a long period, during the war. They harbored a great many French and Dutch children.