Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A student on the University of Utah campus is Miss Leela Ray of Calcutta, India. A young Hindu girl, with an artistic and radiant personality, Miss Ray was sent abroad by her government to master all possible phases of physical education. She has a diploma in physical education and two degrees, bachelor of arts and bachelor of teaching, from her own country. After attending the University of Toronto, in Canada, she came to the University of Utah, where she will receive a master's degree in physical education in March. After visiting other universities, she will go to the Scandinavian countries for special study. She has been invited to represent India at the International Congress on physical education for women in Copenhagen in July. Upon her return to India she will have charge of all the physical education for women in her native province of Bengal. N ancient India the seclusion of women was unknown. From four thousand years ago on, for centuries, Hindu women possessed property, took part in sacrifices and other religious duties, were present at important assemblies on state occasions, influenced politics, and often distinguished themselves in science and other learning of their day. Page 99 C-—> EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 36 FEBRUARY 1949 Remembrance for ei "The history of the world is but the biography of great men."—Carlyle INCE earliest times the world has been enriched by men and women who have lived their earthly days so well that their words and their deeds have been treasured down the years, illumined on the pages of time. The month of February brings to us, among many others who have contributed much to the wisdom and the beauty of the world, the anniversaries of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln whose names are household words throughout the land and whose deeds are written for long remembrance. In our uncertain days, with their problems and perplexities, it is strange to think that Washington, who lived his entire life on the eastern seaboard, yet realized the destiny of his country. He never saw the Mississippi River nor the skyward peaks of the Rocky Mountains. He could not have known the far expansion of his dream either in breadth of territory or in the development of political ideals. Yet he lived a life and left a philosohpy that have immeasurably guided the direction of the Republic. "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest may repair," George Washington advised the Constitutional Convention in the year 1787. In his Farewell Address nearly ten years later, he said: "Of Page 100 all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports." It is a deep thought to try to evaluuate even now the place which Lincoln achieved in the annals of our Nation and in the records of the world. He lived much of his adult life in the prairie country of the Middle West. During his time many pioneer trains, including the vanguard of the Latter-day Saints, began the lonely trek to the mysterious West. But Lincoln never saw the great deserts, the snow-clad Sierras, or the sea waves on the Pacific Coast. He could not have known the strength that would come to the Nation nor the problems of world leadership which would be thrust upon it, but he did know the good way of life; he understood lasting moral principles. Now his name is known to every school child in America and the echo of it has reached beyond our land. The words which the poet Edgar Lee Masters gave to Ann Rutledge might also apply to Lincoln: Bloom forever, O Republic, From the dust of my bosom It has been said of Lincoln that he stood erect by bending over the fallen, that he rose by lifting others.