business picks up. We'll save him the trouble of looking for one." Then her eyes caught the old coat. "Let's say goodbye to 'brownie' forever," she declared rolling the coat into a tight bundle. "Qh, no," Janie protested, reaching for the bundle, "Ma can make a coat out of it for one of the kids." "Nobody's going to wear this coat again," Miss Ardman said positively. "We'll find a better one." She gave the bundle a decisive throw, landing it in the waste paper basket. Janie felt a little cool in the fleecy jacket, but light as if her feet had wings. She sniffed the air with its RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 promise of flowers. It smells just like I feel, she thought. "There will be times, Janie, lots of times when you will be all alone in this thing. Will you have the fortitude for it?" Janie threw back her head, feeling a surge of strength through her body. It was the strength of a person who suddenly understands him- ~ self. She thought of John Rons. He did not seem so important tonight. Soon she could meet him on his own grounds. There would be other boys, boys who might mean more to her than John. "You haven't answered my question, Janie?" Miss Ardman tightened her hold on Janie's arm. Janie did not slacken her pace. The strength was still there, flowing steadily. "I don't know how to tell you," she finally answered in a voice new in its maturity. "That morning you read the cast of the play—the morning I was late as usual—you made me a little angry and ashamed by reading to me. I thought you were just picking on me, but I kept remembering the words. Now maybe I understand what you were trying to tell me. From this night on I'm going to say to myself, 'I'm rising to do the work of a human being.' When I'm alone I'm going to remember those words and that you had confidence in me about the dress." Miss Ardman said nothing, but Janie could see the satisfied look on her face as they turned under the neon light and went into the drugstore. >> Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. VISITING TEACHERS ACTIVITIES, NEW ORGANIZATIONS, AND ANNIVERSARY SOCIALS Photograph submitted by Vida D. Brinton MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS VISIT PINE WARD Left to right: Joseph Farnsworth, high councilman; Vida D. Brinton, President, Maricopa Stake Relief Society; Esther Miller, Secretary; Donna Brinton, daughter of Sister Brinton; Pearl Brinton, member of stake Primary board; George Tayrien, pilot. In describing this interesting trip over the high mountains of Arizona, Sister Brinton writes: "'As you probably know the Pine Ward is located about 120 miles from Mesa. It isn't the distance—but the road—and what a road! We were anxious to attend the conference, but when we thought of those winding, mountainous roads, the trip didn't seem nearly so interesting. Brother Rial Randall who is "airminded" came to our aid. He said he would make arrangements for those who wanted to fly to make. The trip. This was done and in the party there were eighteen.... What a delightful trip! The conference in itself was an inspiration, and at noontime there was a demonstration of Western hospitality. All the Pine Ward members met in the park for a barbecue luncheon.. Such a feast they served!" Page 115 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Photograph submitted by Mabel A. Price CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, CHEROKEE (NORTH CAROLINA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED Front row, left to right: Nancy Walker; Second Counselor Dorothy Moles; Geneva Sannooke; President Nettie Crow. Second row, left to right: Vera Moles; Melita Stud; Minda Kahdot; Nell Tahuette. E Back row, left to night: Jane Whiting; Lois Johnson. Mabel A. Price, President, Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, reports the organization of this first Relief Society among the Cherokee Indians, consisting of ten members. The tribe to which these women belong has an annual fair, a state-wide attraction in North Carolina which is also attended by thousands of people from Tennessee and neighboring states. '"The displays," Sister Price reports, "consist of farm products, vegetables and fruits, both fresh and canned, as well as sewing and works of art, just as fine, and in some cases, finer than any I have seen in state fairs." Counselor Kate Arkansas was not present when this photograph was taken. Photograph submitted by Rose B. Astle SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), DOWNEY WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAKE 100% RECORD FOR 1948 Front row, left to right: Mary O. Elmer; Eillene Pearce; Second Counselor Linda McBride; President Oralie Wilkinson; First Counselor Alice Hill; Secretary-Treasurer, Lillian Bergstrom; LaVerna Skinner; Hazel Stohl; Josephine Wahlstrom; Sybl Roberts. Back row, left to nght: Emma Thompson; Florence Heath; Helen McMurray; Lela Robinson; Sarah Durden; Florence Evans; Virginia Smith; Goldie Reese; Ruth Goodwin; Inez McBride. - Rose B. Astle is president of South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 17 Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Blake HIGHLAND STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), IMPERIAL WARD ANNIVERSARY PAGEANT "OUR RELIEF SOCIETY AND ITS PRESIDENTS," March 20, 1948 Front row, left to right: Annie C. Kimball, author of the pageant; readers: Elizabeth Minson, Mildred Radler, Nora Rigby, Margaret Harris; Josephine S. Jones, President, Highland Stake Relief Society; former stake presidents, Reka H. Cummings and Zora C. Paulson; General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; former general president, Amy Brown Lyman; former stake presidents: Jennie B. Duffin and Nellie O. Parker; Lola Curtis, former president, Imperial Ward Relief Society; Grace K. Carr, President, Imperial Ward Relief Society. Back row, Singing Mothers of Imperial Ward, left to right: Una Nelson; Lucile Hiller; Charlotte Rawson, Elma Richards; Helen Sharp; Carrie Anderson; Anita Monson; Phyllis Van Wagoner; Alice Francom; Izora Hutson; Veone Brown. This beautiful pageant summarized the accomplishments of Relief Society and honored its devoted leaders past and present. The Singing Mothers provided special music, featuring Anita Monson and Alice Francom as soloists. Photograph submitted by Goldie Singleton YELLOWSTONE STAKE (IDAHO), TWIN GROVES WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAINTAIN 100% RECORD FOR SIXTEEN YEARS Present officers and visiting teachers, front row, seated, left to right: Vera Law; Bishop Floyd Law; former Relief Society presidents: Jennie Young; Barbara Goulding; Daisy Peterson; present President Vera Young; Leah Slack. Back row, standing, left to right: Alpha Hathaway; Emma Dayton; SecretatyTreasurer Goldie Singleton; Levon Dayton; Lucretia Slack; Second Counselor Vera Gardener; Emma Brower. This high achievement goal was set by former President Barbara Goulding. Sister Slack has been a visiting teacher for thirty-five years. Elva Swensen is president of Yellowstone Stake Relief Society. 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949: ss 2 3 Yh, ea Ss er ee | cn. Ost 1. Meee we nar teaanstes bs naa SS OO IBS C.. 4 Photograph submitted by Fern B. Fowers LAKE VIEW STAKE (UTAH), RIVERDALE WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY HONORING PAST PRESIDENTS AND VISITING TEACHERS March 16, 1948 Left to right: present President Gladys M. Taylor; Esther McEntire; Florence Fife; Louise Brown; Harriet Cozzens; Dora Laker; Polly Allen; Annie R. Johnson (insert). The Riverdale Ward Relief Society was organized in 1872. Since that time there have been eleven presidents, eight of whom are living. Fern B. Fowers is president of Lake View Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Louesa R. McDonald NEW YORK STAKE, BROOKLYN WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS DISPLAY THEIR WELFARE WORK Front row, left to right: Maria W. Rimmash; Mathilde Bethsold; Lois Rickett; Maria Weiss; Auguste Pegelow; Wilhelmine Paetz; Annie P, Clark; Lillie D. Smith; Berta Stapperfend; Henriette Doering. Back row, left to right: Elsa Stecker; Elly Bethsold; Martha Doempke; Emma D. Braun, Secretary; June S. Young, President; Helen Fruehauf, Second Counselor; Wilma Z. Kullick, First Counselor; Zora P. Shurtleff; Dorothy N. Rothe. Louesa R. McDonald is president of New York Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 SHELLEY STAKE (IDAHO), JAMESTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION IN 1908 Front row, seated, left to right: Elizabeth Burke; Elnora Cox, first president, who held the office for nine years and resigned after her twelfth child was bom; Amanda Christensen. Back row, standing, left to right: Ethel Fielding (deceased); Mabel Roberts; Ardella Park; Dorothy Fielding, present president. Annie R. Johnson is president of Shelley Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Chloe V. Stayner SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON), BREMERTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY AND BAZAAR, April 19, 1948 Left to right: Secretary-Treasurer, Jennie Fry; Second Counselor Ethelyn M. Lay; President Chloe V. Stayner; First Counselor Iona M. McConkie. Bremerton Ward was the first in Seattle Stake to secure its complete Relief Society building fund quota, a large amount of which was raised by the sale of quilts and personal contributions, Vera M. Leishman is president of Seattle Stake Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 De Photograph submitted by Christie J. Smith HITOCHES (LOUISIANA TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, NAC RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Clara A. Methvin, district work meeting leader; Evie N. Miller, Secretary, Nachitoches Branch; Addie M. Rogers,, First Counselor; Blanche J. Smith, President. Second row, left to right: Deleanous P. Morris; Eliza J. Holt; Delia M. Clark; Gladys M. Clark. Third row, left to right: Agnes R. Clark; Effie L. Beck; Vannie J. Rogers; Vera N. Milam. Christie J. Smith is president of the Texas-Louisiana Mission Relief Society. P ° Photograph submitted by Martha W. Brown CENTRAL STATES MISSION, ST. LOUIS (MISSOURI) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL AND PICNIC In front, seated, left to right: Blanche Lockhead; Gertrude Eberhart; Anna Wiedmann; Emma Jean Kirkham; Ruth Phillips, Vera Oscarson, Second Counselor Lillian Linton; Secretary Audrey Salzmann. At back, standing, left to right: Bertha Ohsiek; Almeda Mae Horton, Rita Russell; Bertha Evenson; Louise Varone; Wealtha Lockhead; President Myrtle Fleckinger; Anna Ayres; First Counselor Flora Guest. Martha W. Brown is president of the Central States Mission Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121 Photograph submitted by Alice B. Steinicke ENSIGN STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), WEST ENSIGN WARD LUNCHEON IN HONOR OF VISITING TEACHERS AND BUILDING. FUND ACHIEVEMENT, June' 9, 1948 Front row, seated, left to tight: Florence Smith; Irene Horsley; Lucy Baugh; Garda Grant; Lucy Berry; Alice Steinicke, President, Ensign Stake Relief Society; Marjorie C. Pingree, First Counselor, West Ensign Ward Relief Society; May G. Clawson, President, West Ensign Ward Relief Society; Elizabeth B. Winters, Second Counselor; Florence Johnson, Secretary-Treasurer; Ethel Ray; Mabel Farnsworth; Etta Juellesen; Emma Steen; Katherine D. Plait. Second row, standing, left to right: Rachel G. Taylor; Mary G. Judd; Mina Kinnersley; Nina Stayner; Eva Baldwin; Florence Mitchell; Grace Backman; Bertha Edwards; Emma Sorenson; Claire Roberts; Frances Seeley; Amy Grover; Florence Hyde; Le Del Woodley; Mae Shuster; Naomi Y. James; Roselda Ashton; Kate Stayner. Back row, standing, left to right: Eleanor W. Young; Vera Chipman; Louise Christensen; Mildred Sloan; Ethel Young; Mabel Wright; Ruth Cutler; Gwen Shutrtliff; Celest Billeter; Anna Midgley; Florence Simmons; Genieve Holbrook; Mae Bywater; Luenda Hagen; Inez Belnap. CALIFORNIA MISSION, RIDGECREST BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to tight: Laurel Fifield, organist; Lauree Andreason, Secretary; Elizabeth Elliott, Second Counselor; Helen Harris, President; Esther Zilkey, First Counselor; Bessie Fox; Lillian Snyder. Back row, Standing, left to right: Edythe Maughan; Lorene Chadburn; Delma Werle; Catherine Childs; LaPriel Reed; Celestia Shorb; Nadine Jones; Sylvia Dyer; Grace Harrell. Vivian R. McConkie is president of the California Mission Relief Society. 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Photograph submitted by Lula P. Child WESTERN STATES MISSION, BRIDGEPORT BRANCH (NEBRASKA) RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS WEARING DRESSES WHICH THEY MADE IN THEIR SEWING PROJECT Left to right: Cecelia G. Wilcox and baby; Eva Baird; Secretary Melissa M. Smith; First Counselor Mary E. Gilbert; President Mary Sue Chase; Second Counselor Mary L. Meglemire; Vera J. Eddings; Beryle Fitzgarrold; Elsie Wilcox; Roxie M. Baird. Sister Lula P. Child, President, Western States Mission Relief Society, reports that this little group of women has raised $725.63 during the year. They are a happy and energetic group, eager and willing to carry out Relief Society projects. Photograph submitted by Alberta O. Doxey EASTERN STATES MISSION, PHILADELPHIA (PENNSYLVANIA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Front row, left to right: Counselor Edith Clark; President Elsa Graham; Counselor Lillian Nielson; Alberta O. Doxey, former President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Secretary Ila Larson; Carrie Obendorpher; Gertrude Obendorpher. Georgia R. Livingston is now president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society. LESSON ¢ Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 16—'From Sunshine to Shadow" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 24, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, May 3, 1949 Objective: To follow the Savior in his final preparation for the supreme sacrifice and show how he prepared his apostles for their great missions. Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. HATEVER transpired during the transfiguration, it is evident that Jesus knew when he came down from the holy mountain that he must prepare for the consummation of his earthly ministry. He had received the transcendent assurance that his Father was well pleased. He had felt again the glory of heaven and had conversed with two of his own "divinely-appointed ministers." To his pure soul it must have been disturbing to know that he must go back for a time to unbelieving and wicked people and finally descend into the "valley of humiliation and death." With sublime courage he faced the ordeal. Healing of a Youthful Maniac At the foot of the mountain he found his other apostles and a multitude of people. One of the multitude had a sorely afflicted son. This man knelt at the feet of the Savior and said: Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit; And wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him: and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away: and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out; and they could not (Mark g:17-18). The failure of the disciples to heal the afflicted youth had brought upon them criticism. 'The unbelieving scribes had ridiculed the disciples and, indeed, had cast doubt on the | authority of Jesus himself. However, when Jesus appeared the same scribes remained silent. Of course, this lack of faith and consequent lack of power among his chosen and ordained servants pained the Lord and he chided them:... O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me. And Jesus rebuked the devil; and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour (Matt. 17:17- 18). Page 123 A Perry Picture From a painting by Hofmann CHRIST BLESSING LITTLE CHILDREN Py LESSON DEPARTMENT — In chapter 9 of Mark a more extended account of this miracle is given. 'The boy was evidently not in a condition to exercise faith in his own behalf. In reply to the man's earest request, "If thou canst do anything," which really implied doubt, Jesus stated, "If thou canst believe; all things are possible to him that believeth." The man cried out: "Lord, I believe." In the miracle just considered, the afflicted youth was permanently cured. Jesus had charged the demon to "enter no more into him." The apostles, while on their missions, had cast out devils but were unable to do so in this case. They were distarbed and asked the Lord, "Why could not we cast him out?" Jesus answered, "Because of your unbelief." However, he added, "Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting." 'This lesson given by Jesus teaches so well that faith is a power, but that faith must be firm, genuine, and pure. The Lord's Death and Resurrection Again Predicted From the place where the last described miracle was wrought, Jesus and the apostles started toward Capernaum. Hechosea less frequented toad that he might have opportunity to instruct the twelve. They had received a testimony that he was the Christ, but he wanted them to know of his approaching death and resurtection. 'This, they were slow to comprehend. On one occasion he said, "Let these sayings sink down into your ears " (Luke 9:44). Then he proceeded to explain that he would be killed and would "rise the third day." Luke says, "But they understood not this saying, and 125 it was hid from them, that they perceived it not: and they feared to ask him of that saying" (Luke 9:45). They seemed not to-want to believe because the very thought was so terrifying to them. The Tribute Money Supplied by a Miracle Soon after Jesus and his followers reached Capernaum, a tax collector approached Peter and asked, "Doth not your Master pay tribute?" The inquiry related to the temple tax which had been required of the Jewish male adults since the days of Moses. The question was not put to Jesus, probably because of respect or awe which was felt for him. Priests and rabbis were usually excused from paying this tax. It was a small tax, amounting to half a shekel or thirty-three cents in United States money. It was a Jewish contribution and not a tax levied by the Roman government. As Peter was about to submit the matter to the Master, the latter forestalled him by asking of Peter, "What thinkest thou, Simon? Of whom do the kings of the earth take custom or tribute? Of their own children, or of strangers? Peter saith unto him, Of strangers. Jesus saith unto him, Then are the children free." The meaning was apparent—Jesus was the Son of God. The temple was the House of God. It was inconsistent to ask the Son to contribute to his own Father's house. Peter had already pledged payment without consulting Jesus. 'The Master, however, relieved any embarrassment on the part of Peter by saying, "Notwithstanding, lest we should offend them, go thou to the sea, and cast 126 % RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 SARERTA, a Hermon _ DAMASCUS, ¢ F s » et ge ao + € f Fen 4 on f a oe _— te. Z & je ay & _ CAESAREA" ar a * eS 5, a =. 2 oo ee me' at re © YF § "ba ep sai ~~ = mn x z= A pLTURA EAS = 3 ae 4 oil g-:: ke Hg ag = el "9 se rages w - i aI BAcHONgTis' = en ag XS "eae 2 GALILEE spe eossaus e J Ss ie) Sea of. Galilee J ex SERGESA i us Sp es ae « SMASDAL A Ans A. 2 CANATHA, = ' ae [> EE = en —_ cin FIBER AS wae. » i » J" Naz eM: "Taloy 3 SGADARA 0 cpus ye? CAESAREA ew A 2 Bag eee: oO — on A « Uy SAMAREA © " AMARIA® 9% * pe: O: s._ SAECHEM:. PATRISe,. "iP SYCHAR % ——, ree PT saute fg < S=_L® £2 f= uu ty \ Ss "GPHRAIY {é E- < ts se:: x LYDOAS =, ee ~ 3 RAMAL B HABARA ac 2 RABBAFH AMMON &; ARI RATHER oF we) & ae: a) op e JERUSALEM ec. Saeeei wes wl me) < BETA ANY, ASCALON = = ys *. = iRHugHEN fi ~ wi 5 ~~ § sf i Z "a x ZX > S. ~~: GAZA F "HU D AE AL SEG ig J MACHAERUS ® oe a ae = = ~. Ig pak e* Of ~.. "oe aon "Hill Cogitry An, = EF iN * a) ~ "f 3 we. © FN, vv Fa = Qa omi * lly Me 7g i - Ug hyd, i. LS ' 7 - ros i h. \ a S ce aw a et SS ~ Evan Jensen PALESTINE AT THE TIME OF CHRIST an hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up; and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money: that take, and give unto them for me and thee" (Matt. 17:25-27). Bible students tell us that the "piece of money" is designated by the more literal translation "stater," a silver coin equivalent to a shekel, the exact amount of the tax for two persons. The miracle is inexplainable, except on the assumption that Jesus made the earth, sea, and all things therein. It is incomprehensible to man's finite mind. The miracle is without parallel. Jesus performed no miracles for personal gain. 'This one was wrought for Peter and to avoid giving offense. His questions to Peter clearly showed that Jesus, by reason of being a King's Son, need not have paid the tax but voluntarily did so to avoid any seeming violation of the law and for the sake of his chief apostle. As a Little Child On the way to Capernaum a dis- LESSON DEPARTMENT pute arose among the apostles as to who would be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. 'They believed Jesus was both the Messiah and temporal king. The apostles were arguing as to which would hold the important positions in the coming kingdom. They finally met with Jesus in a house at Capernaum and the question was submitted to him. The Lord knew the thoughts in their minds and, wanting to teach them a lesson on true greatness, took a little child tenderly in his arms and said: Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And whoso shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me (Matt. 18:3-5). He taught also that little children are typical of the kingdom of heaven. Jesus wanted his apostles to learn true humility. 'They were men of courage and force and he did not want them to become childish but childlike. Following the lesson on humility he repeated some of the precious truths given in the great Sermon on the Mount, and gave them instructions on several vital subjects. They were to avoid giving offense, to overcome evil desires and tendencies at any cost. If they committed evil, their consciences would be an unquenchable fire within them. Every human soul must be tested. We are tried in the "fiery furnace" that the dross may be removed from the gold. Amputate any member of the body which gives offense. "For every one shall be salted with fire, and every 127 sacrifice shall be salted with salt" (Mark 9:49). "The soul must receive the saving salt of the gospel." The Lord was especially solicitous of children. He said, "Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones; for I say unto you, That in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven." The Parable of the Lost Sheep Showing his great concern that every soul should be saved, the Savior gave the parable of the lost sheep (Matt. 18:12-14 and Luke 15:1-7). Space will not permit quoting in full. Many people have misunderstood this parable. There was great rejoicing over the finding of the lost sheep as there will be whenever a lost soul is saved. However, the ninetynine had continued joy. They were safe-folded in the Master's keeping. The one was brought back to the fold the others had been enjoying. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in speaking of this parable, said: The hundred sheep represent one hundred Sadducees and Pharisees as though Jesus had said, "If you Sadducees and Pharisees are in the sheepfold, I have no mission for you; I am sent to look up sheep that are lost; and when I have found them, I will back them up and make joy in heaven." This represents hunting after a few individuals, or one poor publican, which the Pharisees and Sadducees despised. (D. H. C. V: 262 and Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 277). My Brother and I Then followed a lesson on the proper method of adjusting differences between members of the Church, so necessary in all dispensations. 'The rule of the rabbis was that the offender must make the first advance toward an adjustment. Jesus 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 taught, "Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother" (Matt. 18: 15). Then he gave the steps to be taken if further adjustments must be made. Extreme measures were to be taken only if a man neglected or refused to obey the decision of the Church. If the offender was finally cut off, he would be "'as an heathen man and a publican." The procedure is the same in the Church today (D. & C. 42:88-93). The Lord's instructions on forgiveness should be studied (Matt. 18: 15-22). These wonderful instructions were made more memorable by giving to the disciples the parable of the unmerciful servant (Matt. 18:23-35). The text on this parable should be carefully read. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What was the first miracle that happened after the transfiguration? Why did not the apostles cast the demon out of the afflicted child? 2. Relate the experience of the Savior with the tax collector at Capernaum. How was the tax paid? 3. What lesson on humility did Jesus teach while at or near Capernaum? <p. Defeat Evelyn Fjeldsted Defeat is not defeat unless Our own decisions make it so— For us, defeat can make no terms, If we persistently say no. There is no lasting, real defeat, When faith illumines destiny— Defeat will prove at length to be A stepping stone to victory. > The Sane View Caroline Eyring Miner T= children caught a bee and put it in a box. The poor insect buzzed frantically, throwing itself again and again against the imprisoning walls, but finding escape futile, it finally lay exhausted in a corner. Denly, it was free again. Then the children lifted the lid and, sudI have been a bee in a tight, black box and have fought frantically, madly, and futilely to escape. Exhausted, I have become calm and thoughtful and submissive to my fate and, realizing the futility of my own weak efforts, have waited for and sought divine aid which set me free. LESSON DEPARTMENT. 129 Visiting Seachers ITlessages—Our Savior -: Speaks Lesson 8—"Ye Are the Light of the World" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, May 3, 1949 Objective: To emphasize that where much is given much is expected. THE Lord in blessing his saints with membership in the Church has likewise required of them obligations. He would have: them placed before the world as worthy examples. A city that is set upon a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house (Matt. 5:14-15). Who in his Church are best qualified to exemplify the Master? Does wealth or position entitle an individual a prominent place in his kingdom? Is it the learned who may be pointed out as reflecting his teachings? No, for God has so set up his laws that any man, whether of high or low degree, may serve equally well to reflect the gospel light. | § "Ye are the light of the world. So spoke our Savior to common folk like you and me and, in so doing, he exhibited his full confidence that his followers would measure up. A pertinent question for each of us today might well be, "Do we in our individualities justify his confidence? How may we measure up?" When Christ said: "Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven," it was a personal request. And yet, there is a great and universal appeal in this entreaty. It reaches out to everyone. And, in responding to Christ's call, 'we may, each and all of us through our acts of righteous living make it possible for Christ to say of us: "Ye are the light of the world" (Matt. 5:14). _<- Communion at Midnight Lizabeth Wall For a little quiet while Let there be no one around; Let not any footstep fall, Nor a breath, nor sudden sound. Let there be no snapping twig Nor a rustling anywhere. ~ White-starred moments such as this, Only God and I must share. 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Literature—Lterature of the Latter-day Saints Literature of the Gospel Restoration Lesson 8—Literature of the Prophet's Closing Years Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, May 17, 1949 THe time from Liberty Jail to mar (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, tyrdom at Carthage—a period Ben E. Rich, Il, page 6). Of about five years—was crowded 4s former lesson mention was ture portraying the spirit and activlvealed irr the prief story of his life by ties of the saints during that period himself, and also of the Articles of is of somewhat different cast from Faith. That of earlier days. Much of it, so Another outstanding work, wtitfar as the leaders were concerned, ten not for publication, but exprescame largely in the form of writings sive of the Prophet's thoughts and to promote the Church at home and feelings he called the "Law of the abroad. Two paper the Times and Lord." In this personal book loving Seasons, at Nauvoo, and the Miltribute is paid to his loyal wife, Jennial Star, ln Liverpool, England, Emma; to his beloved brother, Hycarried Tews and articles through Tum, for whom he prays, "Oh may the years. To expound the printhe Eternal Jehovah crown eternal ciples of the restored gospel, defend _ blessings upon your head, as a 1& it against lts enemies, and to guide ward for the care yOu have had for the saints in righteous living, were ~™Y soul." Also to Newel K. Whit major purposes. Civic problems of ney, to whom he says, "Thou art a From the Prophet himself came whom I have loved stronget than notable expressions in written form, death. To them | have proved characteristic humility, the Prophet DH. V, 107-8). Acknowledged the hand of the Lord In the year 1842, Joseph Smith in these accomplishments. "Tama Was rejoicing in a full measure of rough stone," he said. "The sound success and reward for his sacrificial of the hammet and chisel were nev Jabors and his soul-testing sufferings er heard on me until the Lord took for the gospel s sake. The Church me in hand. |! Desire the learning he had founded amid such travail LESSON DEPARTMENT al, even world power and influence. Well could he radiate gladness and humble thanksgiving and praise to God. Unhappily days of trouble and tragedy were soon to follow. Mark Twain, in his characteristic style once said something which seems to apply aptly to the situation in those palmy days: "Few of us can stand prosperity; another man's I mean." Nauvoo had become the largest, most thriving city in Illinois. The Latter-day Saints held the balance of political power; and that brought jealousy and strife, both within and without the Church. Literature produced during this time naturally was not only in vigorous defense of the principles of the restored gospel, but also was often directed towards building up Amenca with better, more righteous govermment. In other words, Joseph Smith and those who stood loyally with him, rising above petty politics, expressed themselves boldly and clearly on fundamental principles of true Americanism. Some such utterances by the Prophet are statesmanlike: The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is a heavenly banner; it is like a great tree under whose branches men from all climes can be shielded from the burning rays of an inclement sun: and Mormon as well as Presbyterian, and every other denomination have equal rights to partake of the fruits of this great tree of our national Liberty. We believe that every man should be honored in his station rulers and magistrates, as such, being placed for the protection of the innocent, and the punishment of the guilty; and that to the laws, all men owe respect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror; human laws being instituted for the express 131 purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, II, pp. 6-9). The Prophet's plan for resolving the slavery problem in a peaceable way, through purchase and resettlement of these unfortunates, is an example of his grasp and forwardthinking on national issues. Eleven years later, when Ralph Waldo Emerson proposed essentially the same procedure, he won acclaim from the Nation. And at the time Josiah Quincy wrote that this way out of a serious difficulty had been offered more than a decade before by the Mormon Prophet, Joseph Smith, and his statement was _ received in silence. Until the flames of war came, people were not ready to listen. Nor in those fateful days of 1843- 44, would they hearken—the Nation at large—to the inspired words of this leader. Instead, malicious ones of religious creeds, and unscrupulous politicians banded together to bring destruction to this Prophet and the Church he had founded. Aided by traitors within the membership, these evil ones finally wrought their wicked will. Literature portraying the waxing strife and the aftermath of Carthage is readily available. Joseph Smith went, as he said: "Like a lamb to the slaughter, but," said he, "I am calm as a summer's morning; I have a conscience void of offense toward God, and towards all men. I shall die innocent, and it shall yet be said of me—he was murdered in cold blood." Out of this tragedy literature of soul-lifting cast has been created. The following by Apostle Orson Hyde reaches literary heights: 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Twenty-seventh of' June, 1844. Eventful period in the calendar of the nineteenth century! That awful night! I re member it well: I shall never forget it!. Thousands and tens of thousands will never forget it! A solemn thnll—a melancholy awe comes o'er my spirit! 'The memorable scene is fresh before me! It requires no art. Of the pencil, no retrospection of history, to portray it. The impression of the Almighty Spirit on that occasion will run parallel with eternity! The scene was not portrayed by earthquake, or thunderings, and lightnings, and tempests; but the majesty and sovereignty of Jehovah was felt far more impressively in the still, small voice of that significant hour, than the roaring of many waters, or the artillery of many thunders, when the spirit of Joseph was driven back to the bosom of God, by an ungrateful and bloodthirsty world! There was an unspeakable something, a portentious significancy on the firmament and among the inhabitants of the earth. Multitudes felt the whisperings of woe and grief, and the forebodings of tribulation and sorrow that they will never forget, though the tongue of man can never utter it. The Saints of God, whether near the scene of blood, or even a thousand miles distant, felt at the very moment the Prophet lay in royal gore, that an awful deed was perpetrated. O, the repulsive chill! The melancholy vibrations of the very air, as the prince of darkness receded in hopeful triumph from the scene of slaughter! That night could not the Saints sleep, though uninformed by man of what had passed with the Seer and Patriarch, and far, far remote from the scene; yet to them sleep refused. A visitation—the eyelids refused to close—the hearts of many sighed deeply in secret, and inquired, "Why am I thus?" Shall I attempt to describe the scene at Nauvoo on that memorable evening? If I could, surely you would weep, whatever may be your faith or skepticism, if the feelings of humanity are lodged in your bosom: all prejudice and mirth would slumber, till the eye of pity had bedewed the bier, and the heart had found relief in lamentation. But here I must pause; my pen shall touch lightly, as it must feebly, that hallowed—that solemn and ever-memorable hour! The holy and immutable principle of retribution for crime that dwells eternally in the bosom of God, insensibly impelled the right hand almost to draw the glittering sword, and feel the sharpness of the bayonet's point and its fixedness to the musket's mouth. But the well-planted principle of self-command, and also of observing the order of Heaven and the counsel of the Priesthood, soon returned the deadly steel to the scabbard; and the victorious triumph of loyalty to God, in committing. Evil-doers to Him that judgeth righteously, and who hath said, "Vengeance is mine, and I will repay" prevailed over the billows of passion. (Scrapbook of Mormon Literature, I, pp. 283-285). Among the first expressions of praise and exultation was the song, already mentioned from the pen of W. W. Phelps, a stanza of which we repeat: Hail to the Prophet, ascended to heaven Traitors and tyrants now fight him in | vain; Mingling with Gods, he can plan for his brethren; Death cannot conquer the hero again. A wealth of songs extolling the Prophet may be found—some of them of classic quality. Naturally, also, there were other types of effective expression. From John Taylor, who was shot down, and all but killed in Carthage when Joseph and Hyrum were martyred, we have not only his vivid. Portrayal of that tragic day, but also his poetic tribute, "The Seer"—voicing grief triumphant. The last stanza of this poem follows: He's free! He's free! The Phophet's freel He is where he will ever be, Beyond the reach of mobs and strife, He rests unharmed in endless life. His home's in the sky, he dwells with the Gods, Far from the furious rage of mobs. He died! He died for those he loved, He reigns, he reigns in the realms above. LESSON DEPARTMENT He waits with the just who have gone before, To welcome the saints to Zion's shore; Shout, shout, ye saints his boon is given; We'll meet our martyred Seer in heaven. The following incident also brings us close to John Taylor, who became the third President of our Church. It occurred, after his wounds had healed, in Nauvoo. Major Warren was sent there by Governor Ford, to supervise in a military way the affairs of Hancock County. Word had reached this officer that the Latter-day Saint leaders had determined to do their own defending of their rights—even if. Need be to resist the law. In answer, Elder Taylor said, with the rng of Patrick Henry's "Liberty or Death" speech in his words: Major Warren, I stand before you as a man who has suffered deep injury from the citizens of this state, and consequently have some feelings. You talk, sir, about 'the majesty of the law and maintaining the law.' Why, sir, the law to us is a mere farce. For years past the law has been made use of only as an engine of oppression. We have received no protection from it. I have suffered under its cruel influence. _ You talk about your troops being efficient, supporting law and preserving peace. This tale may do to tell some, but it fails to charm us. You talk about the majesty of the law! What has become of those murderers [i. E. Of Joseph and Hyrum Smith]? Have they been hung or shot, or in any way punished? No, sir, you know they have not. With their hands yet reeking in blood, having become hardened in their deeds of infamy, knowing they will not be punished, they are now applying the torch to the houses of ae they have already so deeply injured. Major Warren tried to stop the speaker, but Apostle Taylor brushed him aside. 133 Where is the spirit of '76? Where is the fire that burned in the bosoms of those who fought and bled for liberty?. Talk about law! Sir, I stand before you as a victim of law. I feel warm on this subject—who would not? I have seen my best friends shot down while under legal protection. What is our governor? These scene' have been enacted under his supervision And you will talk to us of law and order, and threaten us with punishment for disobeying your commands and protecting our rights! What are we? Are we beasts? I tell you for one, sit, I shall protect myself, law or no law, judge or no judge, governor or no governor, I will not stand such infernal rascality, and if I have to fight it out, I will sell my life as dearly as I can (Roberts, B. H., Life of John Taylor, pp. 163- 166). Major Warren did not serve the papers he had come to serve on the twelve apostles—and the judge who had issued them thought it wise not to press the case further. Those tragic days, we are glad, have passed. They are recalled today with less fire. Yet they are not forgotten, and lessons they call to mind still bring inspiring expression. Studies and Activities 1. What lyric or other expression in literature has brought more vividly to you the spiritual meaning of the martyrdom? 2. Be prepared to give a brief quotation— just a sentence or two—which shows the Prophet's practical grasp of state and national needs. 3. What, as a final word, has this course on Literature of the Latter-day Saints contributed to you? References B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Essentials of Church History. Jenson, Andrew, Historical Record. Taylor, John, The Gospel Kingdom. 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 Social Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Lesson 7—International Strife and the Quest for Peace Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, May 25, 1949 Objective: To appreciate the part some Latter-day Saints have taken in recent political activities and the obligation resting on Latter-day Saints to teach their children the doctrines of free agency and liberty in harmony with Latter-day Saint knowledge. — — ij EVAN JENSEN FREE agency permits men to do good or evil; to construct prosperous, peaceful communities, or to war with each other. If "courtesy" and spiritual forbearance are essential to traffic safety (as suggested in lesson one), what spiritual development and "courtesy" must men with atomic bombs develop? The Millennial Hope For generations men have longed for the day when "the lamb and the lion shall lie down together without any ire," when swords shall become plowshares and spears be turned in- - to pruning hooks. Notwithstanding, some of the world's bloodiest wars have been the wars of religion. But at the same time the world's religions have helped keep alive mankind's vision of peace on earth. The ideal of the kingdom of God in the Christian religion particularly, has rendered this service. A foundation principle of Mormonism, and one of its interesting contributions to' political doctrines, is that it is now within the reach of men—and their obligation—to "bring forth and establish the kingdom of God." This religious ideal, we have seen, has been fortified with practical devices. President John Taylor, nearly a century ago, November 24, 1855, wrote: Although the present distracted state of the world might seem to forbid the expectation of an immediate amalgamation, yet the rapid increase of means of communication, the sure and decided comingling of interests, a universal exchange of sentiment, an increasing desire among mankind to shake off the shackles of despotism and enjoy the liberty of speech and conscience—all conspire to show that such a combination of circumstances must eventually result in some kind of universal government—moral, religious, and political (The Gospel Kingdom, page 303). A few years later, January 17, 1858, the same leader stated: The germs of this peace are with us; the LESSON DEPARTMENT intelligence conceming these matters has begun to be developed (Ibid., page 305). Section 65 of the Doctrine and Covenants, speaking of the restoration of the "keys of the kingdom" to man on the earth, declares: Wherefore, may the kingdom of God go forth, that the kingdom of heaven. May come And the Tenth Article of Faith states simply that we believe "the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory." Practical Idealism If the peoples of the world understood each other better, their geography, living habits, governmental systems, and social customs, the technological revolution _ referred to by President John Taylor might well "result in some kind of universal government." But the world, as also noted by Joseph Smith and many Latter-day Saint leaders since 1830, is "split up and divided into - different objects... And watching each other as so many thieves" (The Gospel Kingdom, page 299). Instead of understanding, misunderstanding is too often promoted as each nation controls its own press, schools, films, radio, and other massmedia. In rather sharp contrast, the Latter-day Saints, since the day in 1830 when Samuel H. Smith strapped some copies of the Book of Mormon on his back, have, by means of the missionary system, systematically exploited the possibilities of international understanding. Particularly has this been true among the countries of Northwestern Europe, Australia, South Africa, Mexico, certain Pacific isles, and, more 135 recently, Argentina and Brazil. A continuous stream of missionaries has gone forth, and until about 1925, a continuous flood of immigrants poured into the Latter-day Saint communities. As a result, Stephen Duggan, for many years director of the Institute of International Education, said that Salt Lake City was the center of international understanding. Latter-day Saint missionaries have, by themselves, negotiated no remarkable international agreements, but the contribution, even at the diplomatic level, has by no means been insignificant. On the authority of Elder Don Corbett, a major in the United States Army, it was a former Latter-day Saint missionary to Germany, Dr. David White, who translated the surrender terms imposed by General Dwight D. Eisenhower on General von Rundstedt and the German High Command, May 1945; and who, moreover, by his skill, corrected several details in the German-Allied correspondence which were of major importance. A Utah-born diplomat from a famous missionary family, Cavendish W. Cannon, was one of the expert consultants present at the 'TrumanStalin - Churchill - Attlee meeting which produced the Potsdam agreement of July 1945. A former missionary, Colonel Floyd W. Goates, was actively in charge of certain Japanese educational activities in the reconstruction of Japan. A young missionaty, Thomas W. Thorsen, was a detachment commander in the United States military government set-up in Europe, and produced an eighteen-volume memorandum on Norway's economy which tated him 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 a decoration by the Norwegian government. Dr. Dale D. Clark of Farmington, a former. Missionary to Germany, was active throughout the war in the planning section of the SHAEF (Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces) and later saw active responsibility in the reconstruction of Austria and Germany. And the recent examples could be multiplied—such as _ the work of Dr. Llewellyn R. McKay, Paul W. Hodson, Stanley D. Rees, and Eldon J. Facer—all former missionaries to Germany, in the Strategic Bombing Survey of 1945. Even more interesting and subtle, have been the contributions of such Latter-day Saint missionary products as Reed Smoot, Elbert D. 'Thomas, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Edgar B. Brossard and others. Dr. John Mabry Matthews, in his volume on American Foreign Relations, states without hesitation that the nowfamous "good neighbor policy" stems from the work of J. Reuben Clark, Jr., as Undersecretary of State, citing in particular President Clark's official report, Memorandum on the Monroe Doctrine (1928), as an important basis therefor. Dr. Hubert Herring has told many a lecture audience that the real shift toward improved American relations with Latin-America dates from the ambassadorships of Dwight W. Morrow and J. Reuben Clark to Mexico. Too often overlooked in the current interest in nations to the south is the fact, also, that as an official American representative, President Clark, many years ago, as General Counsel for the United States before the American-British Claims Commission, assisted in solving some of the oldest and touchiest problems between the United States, England, and Canada; involving fishing rights in the North Atlantic and other long-standing controversies. The influence of Reed Smoot in the international financial arrangements of the twenties and the Hoover moratorium policies, is a story yet to be told. The unique oriental missicnary experience of Senator Elbert D. Thomas was put to many uses before, during, and after World War I{—not to mention his many European conferences as an Official American delegate. After World War II, when America was being asked for loans and credits to promote European recovery, it was interesting to observe that one of three American representatives negotiating the original post-war British loan was at one time a Latter-day Saint missionary to Scotland, Marriner S. Eccles, the chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. And one of the American delegates to the Geneva Conference of 1947 designed to establish an International Trade Organization was Dr. Edgar B. Brossard, former missionary to France, and at that time, chairman of the United States 'Tariff Commission. All of these persons, together with hundreds of others unnamed, may or may not have been conscious of the root doctrines of American Latter-day Saint political theory as they discharged their official duties. But none will gainsay the fact that the day-by-day living experiences they had as missionaries with the common people of Northwestern Europe, or that were their traditions as LESSON DEPARTMENT members of communities and families into which such experience constantly was being kneaded, could not help but contribute to a deeper understanding of the essential problems of international life. If the present rate of missionary work continues (it could exceed it!) by 1970—a date comparable with the period between World War I and II—it is possible that, in addition to these of the past, there can be 75,000 additional men and women who will have experienced active Latter-day Saint missionary work. In 1970 they will be the vigorous citizens and community leaders who will face the world. Their contribution, with other men and women of good will the world over, including those whose lives they may touch, may well tip the balances for peace or for war. Moreover, many members of this young "army" will have — been "ambassadors" of the United States and of constitutional government, and of a way of life that teaches liberty, tolerance, generosity, and forbearance. The cumulative effects on world opinion and American diplomacy— if this work is well done—are not to be overlooked. Most of the Western Hemisphere, save for the Northeast, was largely "conquered" by Spanish priests—missionaries—in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Much of Asia and Africa became provinces of the British Empire in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, in which the work of the "Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts" and other British missionary societies were by no means inconsequential. Yet, no one need fear the Latter-day Saint 137 missionary abroad! He asks nothing save from those who voluntarily would like to be immersed in water, and who thereafter remain free men, "believing in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates." And he pays his own way, which nowadays helps the dollar balances so nervously sought after by foreign governments! Opportunity of Latter-day Saint Mothers What can a Latter-day Saint mother do? She can study and understand the gospel, including its application to the problems involved in socialism, communism, and international relations. She can teach the meaning of liberty and free agency to her children. She can make of her family, with the father's help, a model of constitutional government. She can help conduct the "foreign relations" of that family with other families, Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint, so as to produce a happier community. She can teach her children the principles of good government by teaching them individually to pray, and by insisting on family prayers. She can help educate her sons ("the glory of God is intelligence!" ) and send them on missions. She can point out that liberty is earned; that it has obligations. The family hearth may become the center of a continuous school, not only in constitutional government and sound _ political theory, but for all problems of society, by reminding one and all that life is what we make it; that the kingdom of God men seek in outward environment, is within each one of us, as Jesus taught. 138 Ww. Recall the Questions for Discussion. If the great "millennial hope" of world government should be realized, and you were called upon to help frame it, what principles should be included therein? Influence of missionary movements in world affairs of the past, and have the class discuss them. For example, Paul of Tarsus and his companions; St. Augustine's traditional mission to Britain; various modern British mission movements (such as the establishment of Dartmouth College in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 eatly America; Livingston in Africa, etc.); Marquette and Joliet, the Spanish fathers, in the expansion of Europe in the Americas.. What may be the unique opportunities of missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints?. Need any modern government fear the presence of missionaries of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints? Need any person?. What can a Latter-day Saint mother do to promote the cause of good government? Peace and safety in society? Economic well-being? Optional Kotene Ga Aiote of Social Sctence—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions ) Lesson 7—The Presidency of Lorenzo Snow Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, May 25, 1949 Tue Preswency A Unir—Tue THreeE ARE ONE Lorenzo Snow George O. Cannon Lorenzo Snow Joseph F. Smith Rudger Clawson already served the Church for sixtytwo years. Elder Snow was born in Mantua, Ohio, in 1814, and although reared in a family of devout HEN Wilford Woodruff died in 1898, he was succeeded by Lorenzo Snow, a man who had LESSON DEPARTMENT Christians, had failed to find satisfaction in any of the religious denominations of the day. He had ambitions to become a professional military leader, and enrolled in Oberlin College, a strict Presbyterian institution. From there he wrote to his sister Eliza R. Snow, "If there is nothing better than is to be found in Oberlin College, goodbye to all religions." He desired to study Hebrew and finding that it was possible to secure Hebrew instruction in nearby Kirtland, went there. He was indifferent to the religious beliefs of his colleagues, but after only a short acquaintance with the Prophet Joseph, he joined the Church in June 1836. The military career was forgotten and he became a soldier in the army of God, fighting for the establishment of the kingdom of God on earth. © He brought to the councils of leadership in the Church a great deal of practical experience, acquired in the service of the Church. During the winter of 1846-1847, he was left in charge of the temporary camp of the saints at Mt. Pisgah, Iowa. Here he manifested great ability as an organizer, utilizing the various capacities of the members to manufacture, churns, barrels, etc., which they sold or exchanged for food. He also delegated others to labor in Missouri and take their wages in foodstuffs. So successful were these ventures that during the winter, the once destitute and starving saints were able to send gifts of food to the saints at Winter Quarters. It was not until 1848 that Lorenzo Snow migrated to the Salt Lake Valley. In February 1849 he was called to be one of the twelve apostles 139 H SMITH Prophet-Statesman By Dr. G. Homer Durham A BOOK THAT SHOULD BE IN EVERY HOME JOSE An Essential Reference - for the two-year course of study in Social Science BOOKCRAFT 1186 So. Main Salt Lake City 4, Utah WE RECOMMEND That Your Complete Orders For Music Be Sent To Us For Prompt Attention 7 7 KS SOHMER—STORY AND CLARK— AND OTHER FINE PIANOS WURLITZER ORGANS—4 MODELS yY Write to MR. SELDON N. HEAPS Summerhays Musie Co. 17 W. First South Salt Lake City 1, Ut. 140 RELI Sete ¥ RIGHT HANDY You are just a step or two from your car when you shop at Sears. No long walks with heavy bun- — dles, no parking tickets to bother with. Main or State at 8th South Salt Lake City, Utah Dial 5-6651 Park Free RIVE ELECTRICALLY @UC THs Oifference/ AT THE CLICK OF A SWITCH Electricity does it better, faster and at low cost. GO ALL-ELECTRIC BUY FROM YOUR DEALER UTAH POWER EF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 and was appointed to open Italy for missionary work. Arriving in Italy in June 1850, he labored with great energy among the Waldensian sect in the Piedmont Valley. Elder Snow was instrumental in having the Book of Mormon translated into Italian and also wrote a number of missionary tracts. He directed the opening of the mission in Switzerland where much success was enjoyed, and then went to the island of Malta for the same purpose. From this point he arranged for the opening of missionary work in British India. Returning from these missiona endeavors he was called to take fifty families and settle Brigham City. There he established his home and lived for forty years. It was while he resided at Brigham City that the "United Order" of co-operative enterprise was introduced and met with a high degree of success. The city was a self-sustaining community, with about forty diversified industries, producing many fine manufactured goods ranging from linen collars, broadcloth suits and silk hats, to kid gloves and dress shoes, cheese, furniture, and wagons. Lorenzo Snow was eighty-five years of age when he became President of the Church on September 13, 1898, just eleven days after the death of President Woodruff. In spite of his advanced age, he enjoyed good health and the manner in which he attacked the problems facing the Church indicates that the Lord had called one to preside whose training in practical affairs would be of great benefit to the Church. "I do not want this admin- & LIGHT Go. Istration to be known as Lorenzo Snow's administration," he states, LESSON DEPARTMENT "but as God's in and through Lorenzo Snow." The most pressing problem was that of financing the Church. Dur. Ing the years of persecution the Church income had dwindled almost to nothing and it had been necessary to borrow money to keep the Church operating. President Snow determined to issue $1,000,000 in short-term bonds to raise money to keep the Church's various missions, temples, and administrative activities functioning. Although some insisted it would be necessary to do this in the East, President Joseph F. Smith insisted it could be done locally, and the entire amount was subscribed within Utah. The next problem was to secure for the Church a steady source of income that would repay the bonds and give the Church sufficient income to maintain itself. Joseph Fielding Smith describes the reason for the falling off of Church income during these years as follows: During the time of trouble with the government over the question of plural marriage, and especially after the confiscation of the property of the Church, the members of the Church quite generally became lax in the payment of their tithing. They were discouraged. Their leaders were either cast into prison or forced to seek the quiet of retirement from public duties. Under these conditions the members of the Church were neglected. Moreover, realizing that their means turned into the treasury of the Church as tithing were greedily seized upon by unscrupulous officials and for these and other reasons, they became neglectful of duty especially in regard to the payment of their tithes and offerings (Life of Joseph F. Smith, page 307). Immediately after becoming President of the Church, President Snow began a campaign to awaken 141 VT VV VV VV VY wwwww Son? Collections that should be in EVERY HOME For a community sing or an intimate family gathering, you will find the good old songs everyone enjoys singing in these fine collections. America Sings 50 188 patriotic songs, hymns, and folk tunes. Merrily We Sing 00 176 old favorites including M-OT-H-E-R, Peggy O'Neil, K-K-KKaty, etc. Kate Smith's Hymns for the Home __..50 A collection of the world's most famous hymns. The Everybody Sing Book 90 A real American collection of songs for school, home, and community. 101 Hymns of the Hour of Charm.50 The result of a popular demand for a collection of the hymns sung. By the famous all-girl chorus. We specialize in music for L. D. S. Choral groups of all types. Write for information. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. Prices quoted include postage. We also have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home and school, Representatives for Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, records, and musicians supplies. Ap FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY: é 45-47 SOUTH C, MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH y ow N 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1949 the saints to their responsibility in this matter. At a solemn assembly convened in the Salt Lake Temple, he said: Teach your children to pay tithing, so that it may be perpetually observed. If we observe this law, no matter what-our enemies may do, the Lord will preserve us... Should we continue in this dilatory way of paying tithing, we will be scattered just as the people of the Jackson County were, This is true as God is true. While speaking at the Mutual Improvement Conference that year, he appealed to them for their support in sustaining the principle of tithing. At the conclusion of his discourse the following resolution was presented to these representatives of neatly every stake in the Church, and unanimously adopted by them: Resolved: That we accept the doctrine of tithing, as now presented by President Snow, as the present word and will of the Lord unto us, and we accept it with all our hearts; we will ourselves observe it, and we will do all in our power to get the Latter-day Saints to do likewise. The remainder of the year 1899 became a year of tithe-preaching and tithe-paying throughout the stakes and missions of the Church. As a consequence, the people became _"tithing-conscious" and commenced to return to the Lord his portion of their material blessings. President Snow did not live long enough to see the complete rewards that resulted from this new emphasis, but he saw the first fruits of this divinely inspired reformation. During the administration of President Snow his counselors did all in their power to spare their President's waning strength by assuming as much of. The arduous work of the Presidency as they could. President Cannon traveled extensively throughout the Church, visiting stake conferences, dedicating chapels and giving counsel in spiritual and temporal affairs. In 1900 he went to Hawaii to attend the golden jubilee of the opening of the missionary work in that land, of which he had been one of the originators. He received a welcome upon arrival such as had, up to that time, never been accorded any visitor to the islands. President Cannon died rather suddenly while resting in California on Aptil 16, 1901. President Snow did not appoint another counselor then, but had President Smith take over as much of the responsibility of President Cannon as he could. President Smith also traveled extensively in the wards and stakes and in addition during these years visited the colonies of saints in Mexico, Arizona, New Mexico, and Canada, as well as a number of the mission fields. 'These visits were made to carry to these scattered saints the new emphasis upon tithing and to assist them in making plans for their future growth and the expansion of Church missionary work. At the October Conference in 1901 President Snow selected President Smith to be the first counselor in the Presidency and Rudger Clawson, one of the Council. Of Twelve, to be the second counselor. They were never set apart to these offices however, as President Snow died four days after conference, on October 10, 1901. His passing brought to a close an administration that placed the Church on a sound financial basis which has provided LESSON DEPARTMENT the necessary means for the remarkable growth in its missionary activities, temple and chapel building, educational endeavors, its hospital services and numerous charities that have characterized it in the twentieth century.. Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. What caused the general non-observance of the law of tithing on the part of the Church membership prior to 1899? 2. Why is it essential that the saints be constantly reminded to pay an honest tithing? 3. What lasting benefits have come to the Church and its membership as a result of President Snow's stimulation of tithe-paying? 4. Relate President Snow's account of his spiritual manifestation after he joined the Church as recorded in the Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow, pp. 7 and 8. (Also reprinted in Robert's Comprehensive History of the Church, VI, PP. 383-384). 5. Read the Rev. Dr. Prentis's estimate on the character and spirituality of Lorenzo Snow, found on Pages 96 and 97 of Cow ey: Prophets and Patriarchs, 6. Make a report on the view held by President Snow concerning the mission of the Twelve and the Seventy in the Church. (See Comprehensive History of the Church, VI, pp. 376-380). References Cowtry, Matrutas F., Prophets and Patriarchs, pp, 86-98. Roserts, B. H., Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. V. Pp. 217, 218; Vol, VI, pp. 356-360 and 375-385. SmitH, Exiza R. SNow, Biography and Family Record of Lorenzo Snow. SMITH, JOsEPH Fiexpinc, Essentials in Church History, pp. 614-622. SMITH, JosEPH Fre. Pinc, Life of Joseph F. Smith, pp. 302-313. Improvement Era, Vol. 51, page 12 (Jan. 1948) "Vaudois Revisited," by Archibald F, Bennett. 143 BUY YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MUSIC FROM US Angels Serenade—338] Century Piano Solo Can be used as accompaniment to the chorus number. Angels Serenade # 463 Century Violin and Piano Will provide a beautiful violin obligato to the chorus number, 20c per copy Plus postage GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. SALT LAKE CITY > Aaa —. —.._, 2. Professional miates Sieial Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND _ BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah ON Nt nt I, wv From Near and Sar Mrs. Teacle isn't a member of our Church but has taken the Magazine for many years and enjoys it very much. Somehow the Magazine agent neglected to call on her earlier, but I hope that even at this late date, she can still be on the list. Our sisters all look forward to the arrival of the Magazine and feel that the material printed therein is very excellent. —Blanche K. Richmond, President, Australian Mission Relief Society I would like to tell you how much The Relief Society Magazine means to me. My husband and I were converts to the Church twenty-six years ago, shortly after the birth of our third child. We now have a family. Of twelve, seven daughters and five sons. For a few years after we became members we had missionary elders working in our district occasionally, then we moved away and had no contact with the Church. Through this period I was helped many times by The Relief Society Magazine. The stories and articles printed in it were a constant source of inspiration to me. I would not miss being a subscriber to the Magazine, even if the price increased fourfold. Money could not give me the comfort and assurance that the Magazine gives to me from between its valued pages. —lIrene E. J. Edwards, Paterson, Australia I have never wished I were a woman, nor anything else other than what the Father in heaven has begotten me to be. Still, I often think were I a woman and could have part in the heavenly work our Relief Society sisters are doing, then I'd be too happy and busy to wish I were anything else. Generally it is I who go to the door when the postman arrives and on days when The Relief Society Magazine is received, don't suppose for a minute that I toss it to Sister M. Oh no, it's probably the only time in our home when daddy asserts his dignity, or needs to, for that matter. But just ask Sister Mitchell if I don't simply glue myself to that little Magazine for an hour or so. But being clever, as Relief Society sisters are wont to be, she sweetly busies herself about the living room, but one can tell her covetPage 144 ing little heart is wishing you at the office would print the Magazine in some strictly feminine language which husbands couldn't decipher. —Bert C. Mitchell, Salem, Oregon I thought this was too good to keep to myself. I went to meeting Tuesday. Before the lesson started I raised my hand and said "I want to say a few words for The Relief Society Magazine. This is the last call as orders must be in one month ahead. Now, sisters, let me help you all with your Christmas shopping. There is nothing nicer than a year's subscription to the Magazine for a present. I will be sitting at that table when the meeting is over waiting for your orders." And was I surprised to get twenty orders. I am happy to talk about the Magazine. —Charlotte O'Connor, Hollywood, California There is no book large or small that brings so much fine material for everyone who reads it, as the little Relief Society Magazine. —Allie R. Berry, Quemado, Texas Christie's poem in the Christmas issue is beautiful ("The Christmas Dream'"— Frontispiece, by Christie Lund Coles). ° I always appreciate her rhyming and use of words. —Ruth Harwood, Pasadena, California Little | Books Tribute to The Relief Society Magazine Anna S. W. Gould Little books, like little songs, Help me as I go along Life's way. Little books, placed here and there, On a table or a chair Every day. With a minute here to spare I take my book from off the chair And read. A good thought here, another there ~ I smile and say, "I'll not despair." No, indeed! For a Sense of ACHIEVEMENT Own and READ "SHARING THE GOSPEL WITH OTHERS" ooo52.00 Gems from President George Albert Smith's addresses. Selected by Preston Nibley "PROGRESS OF MAN" _52.90 The history of the Lord's dealings with man. By Joseph Fielding Smith "GOSPEL STANDARDS" __.. 2.2.20 Gems from President Heber J. Grant's addresses. Selected by G. Homer Durham "PRESIDENTS OF THE CHURCH" _.53.00 Eight, great men—spiritual leaders of the Latter-day Saints. By Preston Nibley "JESUS THE CHRIST"$2.50 A classical account of the Savior's life and ministry. By James E. Talmage DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City 10, Utah Our Books are available through local book dealers throughout the Intermountain West and wherever Latter-day Saints live. Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE CHURCH HISTOSTAN'S OFFICE 2¢ Paid 47. 84ST SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Cit a PERMIT No. 690 CHOICE GIFTS For Special Occasions — Birthdays and Wedding Anniversaries Recognition Remembrances to Relief Society Officers and Visiting Teachers "WIST YE NOT THAT | MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" The Visit of Jesus to the Temple at Twelve Years of Age BY President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. An invaluable reference book on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ. With illustrations. $1.50 postpaid. All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society. A Fe THE OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN Blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid gold front with 24 carat gold-plated back, bearing the motto and seal of Relief Society. (Postpaid) K = = TEMPORARY BINDERS FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Substantial temporary binders, into which single copies of the Magazine for one year may be inserted or removed at will. Reduced to $1.00 postpaid. SEND ALL ORDERS TO GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 
