Prayer Elder Mark E. Petersen Member Council of the Twelve FOUR little girls of Bee-Hive age spent a week together last summer in an M.I.A. sponsored home in a nearby canyon. On arriving at the home, they were assigned to a sleeping room large enough to accommodate all four of them. With joyous anticipation they unpacked their things and prepared for a week of genuine vacation.
That first night before retiring, one of the girls brought up the subject of saying evening prayers. What were the girls to do about it? Should each one say her own secret prayer? Should they all pray as a group? Or should they do both?
It required little time for solution of the question because all of these girls came from praying homes. They decided that each night and morning they would kneel together as a group, each one taking a turn in being voice. In addition, each girl would have her own secret prayers. That was the custom at home. So the girls prayed together, and they had agreed separately, not allowing even a vacation to interfere with their devotions.
Is there a father or a mother anywhere, who would not be proud of little girls who were thus true to the faith? And is there a ward or a stake which would not be proud of parents who thus teach their little ones to pray?
A marine fighting on a Pacific Island was commanded to take his men through heavy fire into an extremely dangerous position to destroy Japanese emplacements. Before going, he and some of his men knelt in prayer. He wrote home:
As we started from the protection of our foxhole, a strange thing happened. All enemy fire lifted. We completed our mission. We then returned to our foxholes. We had no more than got well down in them when enemy fire opened up again, but we were safe and sound. We were praying and thanking our Heavenly Father for so openly answering our prayers and protecting our lives. How great are the blessings shed out upon those who diligently seek his help.
When boys and girls pray as did these young people, there is a reason for it. They had been taught to pray, even from infancy. But while they were thus being taught they learned something else as well to have faith in God, and to exercise that faith in bringing down upon themselves the blessings of heaven.
Where were they taught this faith, and where did they learn to pray? In their homes with their families, as father, mother, and children knelt together night and morning expressing their gratitude to the Lord for blessings already received, and asking for his continued help and guidance, protection and care, in the days and nights to come.
Page  Latter-day Saints recognize that as a people and as individuals, we have one principal purpose in life, and that is to work out our salvation here on the earth and to teach our children and others who will listen to us to do likewise. We work out our salvation by keeping the commandments" of the Lord, by participating in the program of the Church, by following and sustaining those who preside over us, and by being loyal and true to the trust that is placed in us by our Heavenly Father. FAMILY prayer provides one of the most important means of accomplishing this great purpose. Let us first look at family prayer from the standpoint of the children in the home. As parents we have been commanded to teach the gospel to our children, to convert them to its principles, and to rear them in its light, habituating them to the mode of life advised by the Church. Our children need teaching and converting just as much as do those to whom we preach in the mission field. They do not bring with them into this life a knowledge of the gospel. They must acquire it here. President Grant at one time illustrated this point by saying that both he and his wife had a good working knowledge of the multiplication tables at the time they were married, but this gave them no assurance that their children would be born with a knowledge of the multiplication tables. The children had to be taught those tables, and how to use them. He said the same thing holds true with regard to a knowledge of the gospel. Children are not born with any such knowledge; they must acquire it here in mortality. There is no place where the gospel can be presented more effectively to children than in the home, and no persons are more interested in having it thus presented than are the parents. Family prayer can form the basis for the religious education of our children if we choose to make it so. Through family prayer, little children can learn of the existence of God. They can learn that by praying to the Lord, they can obtain the blessings they need. Through family prayer and associated instruction in the home, we may point out to our little ones that obedience to the Lord is an essential part of seeking blessings from him, and that if we believe in him, and obey his commandments, we are in a favorable position to pray for and receive the blessings we need. Through family prayer we may teach our children gratitude, that all good things come from God, and that we owe him our thanks for these blessings. Many there are who have never learned to pray, but we can teach our little ones how to pray as we hold our regular family prayers. They see and hear us pray, and when their turn comes, and they take active part, they learn to do by doing, and as they continue on they establish prayer as a daily habit in their lives. One of the most important features of family prayer from the standpoint of the children is that to which Jesus referred during his brief ministry among the Nephites. Said he: Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye be led away captive by him... Pray in your families unto the Father, always in my name, that your wives and your children may be blessed (3 Ne-phi 18:15-21). With the multiplicity of temptations that confronts our children today, it is a great source of consolation and comfort to know that we are united in spirit and that family prayer fortifies us and our little ones against Satan. "Pray always," said the Savior, "LEST YE ENTER INTO TEMPTATION, for Satan desireth to have you that he may sift you as wheat." This one thing alone should bring every family to its knees in humble prayer day by day. Can any family afford to be without it?
There are many other factors of importance in family prayer many other blessings to be obtained through its proper observance.
If a family prays together regularly and humbly, those family prayers will go far to preserve mutual love and good will among the members of that family. Can a husband and a wife kneel together and unitedly appeal to the throne of grace, having their hearts melted by the spirit which accompanies fervent prayer, and not be drawn closer together, in case of domestic trouble in the home? Can they fail to solve their problems amicably if they will be humble themselves in prayer before each other and before the Lord, and pray together for mutual understanding? Can misunderstandings between parents and children continue under the sweet influence of sincere family prayer? The spirit of prayer is the spirit of peace, the spirit of good will, the spirit of charity and mercy. It is the spirit of love which is the spirit of God.
FAMILY prayers help to keep the family in remembrance of its obligations to and covenants with the Lord. We, as Latter-day Saints, are pledged to "always remember him" that we may always have his spirit to be with us. Families who remember these obligations will not be disobedient to the commandments. They will not be found among the numerous waves of the world; they will not be listed among the Sabbath-breakers, nor among those who violate the Word of Wisdom or the law of chastity. They will not be teaching their children disobedience by holding before them an example of disobedience. Rather, they will be among the stalwarts of the Church, upholding the program of the Church, keeping the commandments and working constantly in the work or stakes.
Family prayer brings into the home the spirit of prayer, and any family which is actuated by the spirit of prayer is actuated by the spirit of God. Persons who leave a house of prayer each morning should carry with them an attitude of good will and fair play, of doing unto others as they would be done by; of righteousness, having a distaste for evil. In that way they may come to understand the meaning in the Savior's words: "Pray always lest ye enter into temptation."
Where family prayers are held in sincerity and humility, the hearts of the members of those families are moved by a desire to be in harmony with the Lord and his servants. Where such a spirit prevails, there is no criticism of the bishop or the stake president, and there is no denunciation of the general authorities, for such criticism is out of harmony with the spirit of prayer. When persons refrain from criticism of the brethren, they resist one of the
apostate tendencies against which the Prophet Joseph has warned us.
Where family prayers are held with devotion, the home is not given over to activities which are opposed to the spirit of prayer. There is no drinking or smoking there, no vile stories, no unchanneled dealings, no lying nor backbiting, nothing unseemly. On the contrary, the home functions are conducted on a high plane where the habits of life are clean. Have you considered what this is worth in the rearing of a family?
It is the desire of the Church to see character built into the souls of
full of faith, devotion, and integrity. Sincere family prayer will help tremendously to bring this about. Can we neglect so great an opportunity?
If we as a people will hold family prayer in our homes with regularity, with faith and humility, and then establish habits of life in keeping with our prayers, the windows of heaven will be opened and such blessings will be poured out upon us that we can hardly contain them. Many of the problems which now vex us will fade away, life will be sweet indeed, and not only will we ourselves be benefited, but we will be as a light upon a hill, a beacon to all mankind. PRAYER Edwin C. Bliss To some, a prayer is mere routine, A boresome obligation. Prosaic offering of thanks. And unfelt adoration. Such praises, sung by grudging lips. Can never reach the throne; For God cares not for prayers made up Of words and words alone. A prayer must be a consecration, Heartfelt and sincere; A faith that, though the load be heavy, God is ever near; A willingness to work and wait As through the years we plod. And place our life entirely Within the hands of God.