Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A MOVEMENT is on in our country to bring education into closer co-operation with daily living, national business, labor, professional, religious, and other organizations. Plans are under way for choosing committees to meet and advise with the United States Office of Education. Miss Margaret A. Hickey, President of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, is one of the representatives of the business groups. A FORMER Salt Lake woman, Dr. Beulah Ream Allen, who was living in the Phillipines in 1940, was rescued with her two sons from the Santo Tomas prison camp. The former Miss Ream put herself through medical school, principally by night-duty nursing, though medical school authorities feel that even a man cannot successfully work his way through medical training with its rigorous demands. Dr. Allen's second son was born in the prison camp. Her husband, captured at Bataan, is believed to have died in the Cabantuan camp. MORE and more Latin-American women are assuming leadership in civic, intellectual, and artistic life. Santiago, capital of Chile, has had a woman mayor, the wife of Oscar Schnake. A number of highly gifted women among our good neighbors attended the San Francisco Conference. Senora Isabel Sanchez de Urdaneta was a pioneer in introducing kindergartens into Venezuela. Dr. Berta Lutz of Brazil is a famous scientist and feminist. Senora Isabel P. De Vidal is a member of the National Senate of Uruguay. Senora Adela Formoso de Obregon Santacilia is president and founder of the Women's University, Mexico. MANY of Utah's daughters are winning recognition for outstanding achievements. Dr. Lenore Richards shows a marked talent for surgery. She is the first woman ever to be accepted in the Teaching Surgical Service of the Cincinnati State Medical School with service at the Cincinnati General Hospital. Dr. Richards instructs and is continuing her own specialized studies. MRS. Elaine Stevenson Michelsen, while living temporarily in Hartford, Connecticut, was invited to exhibit her paintings at the Hartford Public Library on the occasion of the commemoration of its founding. Moving with her husband to Seattle, Washington, she became a successful art instructor there. A USEFUL and interesting book is Home-School Relations, written by Dr. Ernest G. Osborne and Sarah E. Baldwin. Page 601 EDITORIAL 

VOL. 32 OCTOBER 1945 NO. 10 ?