ORPHANED Dott J. Sartori The maple lets her green-winged fledgings fly Aslant the autumn?s fitful atmosphere. Sightless, they ride among the enemy And conquering soar into the coming year. Now frost and thought of future goading her The gentian floats her parachutist free, Trusting to filaments of gossamer A century's emerald genealogy. The future is flung into the couch of fall? The green world's minute infants swaddled tight In sheaths of brown, impervious but small? To brave alone the winter and the night. THE BOTTOM DRAWER 613 The Bottom Drawer (Continued from page 591) and sat on the floor beside her cedar chest. She took out all her beautiful things and looked at them one by one. What dreams and hopes she had put into them and now they seemed to be the barrier between her and Bart. With a sigh, she replaced them carefully. I'd better get back to bed, she thought. No matter how I feel I must be on hand to teach the children in the morning. One afternoon the next week when Majel got home she found Grandma lying on the couch gasping for breath. The doctor looked grave as he said accusingly, "You?ve been worrying about something." To Majel at the door, he said, "It's this war. Keep her from thinking about it. She can stand about one more attack like that." Majel went back and knelt by the couch. She smoothed back the soft white hair. "You've been worrying about me," she said. "Well, you just get well and I'll be all right." As she got dinner she thought back over the thirteen years she had lived with her grandmother. She must have been a trial at first and a great responsibility. Grandma might have had a very different life without her? trips and friends of her own age. She shouldn't have let Grandma put her through college either. She knew now that she had done right in staying. Bart's letters came now at irregular intervals, sometimes three weeks apart. They were interesting, though, telling of places around New York he visited, of dances at the field. But he never used the extravagant terms of endearment that had so amused her, and he never mentioned the future. Soon after school was out in June, a different kind of letter came. He wrote, "Sometimes when I'm ten thousand feet up I have the strangest impulse to turn west and fly straight back to you. Instead, I'll probably soon be moving east where I can't even be sure of your prim, sweet little letters." This was too much for Majel. She went to her room and cried a long time. When Grandma called her to dinner her eyes were still red but Grandma seemed not to notice. It was not until they were clearing the table that she asked, "You got a letter, didn't you?" Majel said, "Yes." "Is he about through at Long Island?" Another "yes" was all Majel could manage. They were washing the dishes when Grandma spoke again. "You know what I'd do? I'd go and marry him before he goes. I'd fly to get there." Nothing in Majel's life had ever surprised her so much. "Why, Grandma," she faltered. "You?ve always said such marriages weren't decent." GRANDMA interrupted impatiently. "I can change, can't I? I'm in this war, too, and everybody says war changes people." "But he hasn't asked me to come," Majel objected. Grandma seemed not to hear. "You could leave tomorrow and you needn't worry about me. I'm going to visit Cousin Clara. I've already written to her."
Then Majel laughed and hugged her tight. "You're not fooling me a bit," she said, "but I'll do it. You start packing while I get reservations."
When Majel saw Bart all her confidence left her. But his hug and kiss were ardent enough. He guided her over towards the cafe saying, "We'll get something to eat while the baggage is being sorted."
Not until they were through did he demand, "Now tell me, what's the idea?"
"Is it too late?" Majel asked, scarcely above a whisper.
"You surely don't mean you'd marry me now when you wouldn't three months ago. Why, we could have only two or three days together."
Majel spoke rapidly. "You thought it was a home with nice things I wanted. But it wasn't. All those things in my 'bottom drawer' were just?just something to keep me busy while I waited. I could be happy with you in an auto court even. It was my contract. If was my responsibility to Grandma. Oh, Bart, I've been so unhappy because you didn't understand."
"Understand?" At last he said, "Maybe I do now. I've done a lot of thinking." He paused?then laughed. "Why, I suppose, marriage to you is a sort of contract and ?and?a responsibility."
"Yes, oh, yes," she said.
"And I could be sure of having a wife waiting for me when the war is over?"
"Yes."
"Oh, my dear, I guess I like you just the way you are." He took from his pocket a little green velvet box. In it were two rings?one with a large diamond and the other a band. As Majel watched with shining eyes, he took out the engagement ring, reached across the table for her hand and slipped the ring on.
"There," he said, "I've had them three months." Then his voice took on a familiar, teasing tone. "Not that I haven't tried to find someone in New York to give them to."
When Majel heard that tone she knew that everything was right between them. She brushed. "No one would look twice at you. They could all see the sign 'taken' right across your forehead."
Bart got up. "Come on," he said, "I understand it takes time to get married in New York and we haven't a minute to lose."