patterns and fruit motifs offer a wide choice in the selection of an inexpensive covering to be used for the breakfast table. Set with gaily colored pottery, such a table presents an invitation to enjoyment which stimulates the day's activities. 'INHERE is never a meal where floral decorations are out of place, never a buifet supper nor a children's party that is not made more attractive by artistic flower arrangements. These decorative centerpieces should be simple, composed of clear, bright colors, entirely cheerful in effect. Nasturtiums, intermixed with their crisp green leaves, are appetite-inspiring flowers. The simplest arrangement is suitable for the informal luncheon. A few sprays of asters or cosmos, if placed in an appropriate container, will make a FLOWERS AND FRUIT FOR THE TABLE 611 lovely centerpiece for this meal. Calendulas and marigolds reflect the warmth and brilliance of the autumn season. The ingenuity of the mother-hostess is put to the test in the choice of flowers which may be available in the family garden plot. Charming center decorations may be made by placing one or two dahlias or chrysanthemums in a shallow dish filled with water. Pansies, also, provide an attractive center of interest by cutting the stems and letting the petals float on the water. Petunias, in their gay multicolors, are a delight, and they adapt themselves to almost any type of container. Autumn is particularly lavish in its gifts of color and beauty. Grains of all kinds, in their golden splendor, offer endless opportunities for attractive table decorations. Feathery oats, in gleaming yellow, against a blue bowl make a picture not soon forgotten. Weed stems, red berries, colored leaves, are gifts from autumn ?gifts that we may bring inside our homes. Fruit arrangements are at all times appealing. Luscious grapes are irresistibly tempting, especially in clusters of green and purple which can be draped gracefully over the edge of a bowl. Mixed fruits, such as oranges, bananas, apples, pears, and peaches do not lack in decorative appeal. Fruits of contrasting form should be selected for combinations. There should usually be a preponderance of one kind of fruit, with color and line accents of other kinds. Whatever type of centerpiece is selected, the arrangement should never be high enough to obstruct the view across the table. DINING TABLE WITH FRUIT CENTERPIECE Picture taken at Lion House, Salt Lake City. Dining room decoration by Mary Grant Judd Also, it should not be so flat that it does not display itself to advantage. If the table is long, several small arrangements may be more effective than a single elaborate centerpiece.
Candles for the dinner table provide a festive touch, but they should be used only in the evening when artificial light is required. For intimate occasions the light from the fireplace may be sufficient for the evening meal.
While individual ingenuity must be depended upon for variety and results, there are certain basic rules for table setting. The linen, china, and silver required will depend upon the meal and the menu. However, the placing of the napkins, silver, china, and glassware is the same for all occasions. The napkin is folded simply?large napkins with the monogram up, and smaller napkins with the long side toward the plate.
Silver is placed on the table at the beginning of a meal only for the courses which are served before the tines up, and all knives and spoons to the right of the individual setting. They should be laid at right angles to the edge of the table, about an inch from the edge. The blades of the knives should be turned toward the plate. Each piece of silver should be laid in the order in which it is to be used, from the outside in. If more silver is required it should be placed upon the table immediately before the course for which it will be used. The tumbler or goblet for water should be placed an inch above and slightly to the right of the largest knife. Butter plates should be placed to the left and above the forks, with the butter knife lying across the rim of the butter plate.
Pleasure may be found in doing anything well. The three times daily task of table setting may be made pleasant and adventurous by using materials readily available for bringing beauty to the table. Let us serve our families with thoughtfulness and artistic planning.