Notes FROM THE FIELD Blanche B. Stoddard, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. Bonneville Stake (Utah) A DELE MATHESON reported a pageant she directed, given at the Relief Society conference in the Garden Park chapel, November 5, 1944. 'The theme was inspired by the current study of biblical literature in the regular Relief Society outline. The material, covering, in effect, the complete life of Christ, was selected by President preserved throughout by the writer: Elizabeth, mother of John the Baptist, appearing first, related the remarkable incidents concerning the birth of her son, and the prophecies forecasting the advent of the Savior. Genet B. Dee from the four gospels. The beauty and simplicity of the biblical expression was GARDEN PARK WARD, BONNEVILLE STAKE, PRESENTS PAGEANT The five women most important in the life of Christ tell their own story in tableau, dialogue, and song at the Relief Society conference in Garden Park Ward, Bonneville Stake, November 5, 1944. These characters, most beloved by the Savior, were played by left to right: Florence Hill as Martha; Lucile Cederlof as Mary; Adele Matheson as Mary, mother of Jesus; Ruth Romney' as Elizabeth; in front. Lota Lamoreaux as Mary Magdalene. The production was written by Genet B. Dee, President of Garden Park Relief Society, and was produced by Adele Matheson. Poge  Mary, the mother of Jesus, unfolded the marvelous story of the miracle of the coming of the Son of God. She told the appealing and human story of the mother and her son from his birth and childhood to his tragic crucifixion. The raising of Lazarus from the dead and the sojourn of the Savior within their humble home, was skillfully depicted in conversation between Martha and Mary. The story of Mary Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils, was recalled in its forceful simplicity and the dramatic summary of the scene at the cross which concluded the story. "Appropriate musical numbers interspersed the program: 'A Voice in the Wilderness? 'Prepare Ye the Way/ and 'He is Risen/ were rendered by Elaine Tomlinson; 'I Think When I Read That Sweet Story of Old/ by Wanda Gibb; 'Were You There When They Crucified My Lord?' rendered by the Garden Park Girls' Chorus; and 'I Know That My Redeemer Liveth sung by Edward O. Piatt. "The authentic costumes, together with appropriate background and music, contributed to an atmosphere of dignified solemnity, and through the spoken word the characters appeared to actually live their parts. The effect upon the hearers was one of profound reverence. Particularly impressive was the final scene at the cross." RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY, BELLINGHAM WARD, SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) Left to right: Thelma Umphenour, secretary-treasurer; Ella M. Petrie, president; Elizabeth Salmon, first counselor; Hazel A. Ferretta, second counselor. Photograph submitted by E. C. Petrie Twin Falls Stake (Idaho) LENNIE WARD, recently released president of the Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, reports that under the able direction of Sister Emma S. Luke, a stake board member, a most inspiring pageant "Nine Notable Women of Scripture" written by Sister Daphne Smith, was presented by the Twin Falls Stake Relief Society at their conference, December 3, 1944. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 6M PAGEANT PRESENTED BY TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY The pageant, "Nine Notable Women of Scripture/' presented by the Twin Falls Stake Relief Society at their conference, December 3, 1944, consisted of nine tableaux, one presented by the stake board and one by each of the wards. Appearing in the picture, left to right, are: Maurine Luke, Wilda Carlson, Leota Bohngbroke; Geneva Moyes as Sarah, and Cecil Adamson as her son Isaac; Elsie Hammond as Asenath, with Calvin Calico and Leon Hammond as her sons Ephraim and Manasseh; Mrs. Larry Armga as Sariah, with Preston Luke as Lehi and Kelly Farmer as Nephi. Center front: Brother and Sister Douglas Brown as Joseph and Mary; the three shepherds, Wyland Lind, Curtis Knight, and Grant Neilson; Back of Mary, Nadine Stanger as Eve, with Lee Morgan as Seth, her son. Top: Esther Bates as Tamar Tephi, with her son Allen Bates as the youthful King David; Ted Wright as the scribe, Baruch, and Donald Arrington as the Prophet Jeremiah. Brother and Sister Joseph B. Stoddard representing Elizabeth and Zacharias; Edith Tenny as Rachel, with Larry Goodman as her son Joseph; Mrs. Alvin Hauser and her two children as Rebecca and Esau and Jacob her sons; Sisters Purdett Farmer and Emma Luke. It consisted of nine tableaux, one presented by the stake board and one by each of the wards. Sister Ward states: "The pageant was rather unusual and drew a large, appreciative crowd. "Sister Purdett Farmer presided at the meeting, invocation and benediction were offered by Sisters Lois Bean and Goldie Tolman. Congregational singing was led by Sister Maurine Luke, 'Come Ye Children of the Lord,' 'Love at Home,' and 'Come, O Thou King of Kings." "Sister Emma S. Luke gave the historical setting of each character before the pageant began, and also sang 'Lullaby' by Brahms during the nativity scene, accompanied at the organ by Sister Wilda Carlson, who also furnished the background music. Sister Leota Bolingbroke was the reader. "The stage platform was built over the choir seats and the beautiful lighting effect was in charge of Sister Rhoda W. Babbel, recently released secretary of Twin Falls Stake Relief Society." Lost River Stake (Idaho) LAURA L. CHRISTENSEN, President of the Lost River Stake Relief Society, entertained at a banquet on Friday evening, March 16, for the presidencies and Relief Society ward workers at the Mackay Ward. Her letter reads: "One hundred and thirty-five guests were present from all parts of the stake which includes Arco, Lost River, Moore, Leslie, Mackay, Challis, Salmon and Leadore. "Blue and gold, the Relief Society colors, were used in decorations throughout the building. "During the banquet. Bishop Lawrence Halverson was presented to the guests as master of ceremonies. Community singing, led by Emaline Braithwaite, and extemporaneous speeches called for by the master of ceremonies furnished the entertainment during the banquet. "Following the banquet the guests adjourned to the upstairs where the following program was presented: Community singing Leader, Emaline Braithwaite Reading Cotie Anderson Piano duet Mrs. Shirley Hintze and Mrs. M. M. Hintze Parable Mrs. Roy Waddoups Songs Singing Mothers of Leslie Play "Utter Relaxation" Cast: Alice Ellis, Hortense Bitton, Harold Christensen, Rowsel Ellis, Roberta Lemmon and Darryl Spane. "The entertainment was concluded by the cutting of a beautiful four-tier birthday cake decorated with candles in commemoration of the 103d anniversary of the founding of the Relief Society. "The hostesses for the evening included President Laura L. Christensen, Counselors Maude W. Babcock and Emily W. Muffet, Secretary Luella Halverson and the board." Southern States Mission EFFIE MEEKS, president of Relief Societies of the Southern States Mission, reports that the branches in this Mission are continuing with their project of making a variety of lovely shell craft items. The costume jewelry is particularly beautiful, being made from seashells which are very plentiful in the South. A picture of this shell craft, together with a description of the project, appears on page 588 of Thefor October 1944. A good selection of this shell craft is on display at the Mormon Handi craft Shop, 21 West South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Sister Meeks also has a supply at the mission headquarters, and articles may be obtained by writing directly to her at 485 North Avenue, N. E., Atlanta, Georgia. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 619  OGDEN SECOND WARD PAGEANT?THE LAMP OF OPPORTUNITY" Front row, left to right: Bishop Alden C. Sorenson (representing Priesthood"); Louisa Scoffield, counselor in the Stake Relief Society ("Spirit of Relief Society"); Genevieve Borgono ("Prayer"). Second row: Sergene Simmons, author and director; Idona Briggs ("Loyalty"); Jane Yssel ("Humility"); Anna Stephens ("Courage"); Leona Sanders ("Love"); Myrtle Read, President of Ogden Second Ward Relief Society; Shirley Wright, reader; LaNez Bench ("Opportunity"); Lena Stevens ("Faith"); June Hansen ("Service"); Mary Eliason ("Charity"); Lottie Peterson ("Mercy"); Dean Sorenson, pianist. Third row: S. J. Scoffield (brother of Jared); Susie Kimber (Naomi); Genevieve Kimber (Orpha); Margaret Smedley (Ruth). Photograph submitted by Mrs. F. C. Simmons, Ogden, Utah. Weber Stake (Utah) OGDEN SECOND WARD Relief Society of the Weber Stake presented' March 16, 1945, in commemoration of the Relief Society anniversary, an original pageant by Sergene Simmons, entitled "The Lamp of Opportunity/" suggesting that the spirit of Relief Society creates opportunity and light for all. It was carried out by combining familiar sacred songs, original verse, and scriptural readings, accompanying appropriate tableaux. The three characters, "The Spirit of Relief Society," "Prayer," and "Opportunity," combined with "Priesthood" to give enlightenment to womanhood. The virtues, introduced by fitting songs, were: Faith, Love, Service, Courage, Charity, Humility, Mercy, and Loyalty. This pageant was repeated in the Fourth Ward chapel at Logan, Cache Stake, March 17, 1945. RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD, YELLOWSTONE STAKE (IDAHO) Back row, standing, left to right: Martha Black, Rena Smith, May Fullmer, Katie Rudd, Sarah Munk, Ruby Johnson, Elnora Howard. Front row, seated, left to right: Leola Romell, Secretary; Blanche Westerburg, Second Counselor; Mary B. Blanchard, President; Eva Cameron, First Counselor; Adriena Young. Photograph submitted by Mary B. Blanchard. And For Eternity {Continued from page 608) right" he said positively. 'Tm a bear, I guess, but [ actually forgot about Millie. But this won't keep you from dancing with me, will it?" and he frowned at the little ring. "Of course not," Delsa laughed. "I love to dance, do you?" He nodded, and let go of her hand. Rising, he reached for his cap, which he had hung on a hook behind the door when he came in. Delsa followed him, and as he stood, waiting to leave, twirling his cap in his two hands, Delsa thought, how lonely he is! How alone and away from all the folks that love him ?his mother?his sweetheart! That's the way Hugh was, down there in Australia! She laid her hands on his arm, feeling the rough texture of the cloth beneath her palms. "Drop in any time," she said. "If you feel lonely, come here. The Lewises, of course, are wrapped up in their plans for Jim?but we have nothing to distract us. Mother and Dad would love it?" He bent toward her in that slanting, eager posture so like Hugh's and said, "It's been a wonderful evening, Delsa. And I am going to take you at your word?I am going to drop in here often. I only wish I could go to school, too!" A FTER he was gone Delsa went slowly upstairs to her room, but her mother called to her from her AND FOR ETERNITY 621 bedroom, and Delsa turned and went in. "He's a nice boy," her mother said, with a little gesture that reminded Delsa of the past?of the many nights she had come in from a dance or a party to sit on the pieced coverlet and tell her mother and father of the good time she had had. T But Delsa didn't sit down tonight?the old easy confidence was gone? gone with Hugh?though her mother didn't know it yet. Now between them lay a shadow of restraint and, perhaps, deceit. So Delsa stood beside the bed, ignoring that gentle gesture, and said, "He's had a tough time, out there." "I could see that," her father went on, and his gruff voice was gentle. "I don't suppose he told you much about the fighting? It's terrible?I can't help thinking of all our boys?" Delsa patted his heavy, calloused hand where it lay on the coverlet. "You took yours in the last war. Dad," she said softly. "I guess the boys can take theirs now." They talked a little longer, and Delsa stooped and kissed her parents before she went out of the room. Somehow, tonight, she felt sorrier for them than for herself. They both loved Hugh so much. He had taken the place of the son they had never had, and her father had been the only father Hugh had known. "If it were only my problem alone!" she whispered, "I could go away?I could even face it here. But it is theirs, too. Hugh, Hugh, did you forget Dad?did you forget the pony he gave you when you were ten?the days you have helped him stack hay?the way he taught you to box and wrestle so you could hold your own with the bigger boys? Did you forget mother? and her cookies and her presents?her affection that gave you two mothers where less fortunate boys have but one?" She knelt by the window, looking out over the trees to where the snowy crest of the mountain that guarded the valley stood pale and white in the moonlight. Between the mountain and her window lay the acres of her father's farm, and beyond them other acres, and then the road and the foothills where she and Hugh had gone Eastering and May walking and hunting pine nuts and cutting Christmas trees. "I am not a dog in the manger," she told herself at last, "hanging onto Hugh when he is tired of me and wants to be free. I am remembering my parents and Aunt Martha?and I am holding on for them, too." Suddenly she bent her head onto her arms and cried, "And for you, too, Hugh?Oh, now, tonight, I know how you must have felt, out there. And, tonight, I don't blame that girl so much?I know how she must have felt, too." To be continued)