[Vol15 | August 1928 | Sequence: 08b | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for October]

Guide Lessons for October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) PROJECTS CONCLUDED I. The Adjustability of Projects. Gospel aims are eternal. The joy of man is the aim of his existence. It is a divine purpose, an everlasting objective in the mind of the Eternal. The Book of Mormon declares the existence of man to be joy (II Nephi 2:25) and Jesus set forth the same truth when he said, "I am that ye might have life and and that ye might have it more abundantly." (John 10:10). The word "joy" is the shortest and most comprehensive symbol of the abundant life. Joy is a kind of happiness of which it may be said, "once happy, always happy." It is enjoyment, the anticipation of which is happiness, the presence of which is happiness and the memory of which is happiness. All purposes pointing toward; and all projects pushing along lines not parallel with the great gospel aim, lead away from the abundant life; and the farther one goes on one of these tangent lines, the more abject the poverty of life. Projects for lowering standards are always bad. The projects for reaching the ever-present and truth-anchored aim, the abundant life, have been expanded, modified, and changed to meet conditions. Note the growth and adjustability of the great missionary project?one in purpose but many in its means and methods?once a few men without purse or scrip, now men and women, thousands of them, carrying the message of life, spiritual life, moral life, intellectual life, and physical life, in rich abundance. Once limited to holding conversation by the wayside as did Jesus at the well, (John 6) now speaking to millions over the radio, as did the Father over his radio to the Nephites when he introduced to them the resurrected Redeemer. (III Nephi 11.) Once the missionaries walked the dusty road as did the apostles with Jesus; now we hear of them outspeeding the wind above the clouds to fill a missionary appointment. Gospel projects are the machinery of salvation and must be adjustable to the people and to their conditions. They are the roadway to reach the top of the mountain of joy and must curve and wind to make a grade suited to the climber's capacity. The onwardness of a project may include temporary halts

as well as the making of detours. The line of march which Jehovah marked out for ancient Israel under the leadership of Moses is vividly illustrative of the necessity of project adjustability. Forty years they were getting from Egypt to Jericho, a distance which a camel can walk in a few days.
II. The Fruits of Projects. This is not only a great listening age, but an age of looking as well. We still go to the heart-beat for information, but we use the X-rays also. The telephone communication is not enough, we want television. The project of producing Christian character must result in meeting the condition of the hour when the thinking world is more interested in the fruits than in the roots of the tree life, when doing is of more importance than doctrine. And this condition is in perfect keeping with the leadership of him who said, "by their fruits ye shall know them." When this dispensation sign of salvation was first put up, the world threw rocks at it and smeared it with mud; its showcase was empty. Now at the close of its first century of existence, its windows blaze with diamonds. They are lent to the world, and glisten from high places in government, in education, in the professions and industries; they sparkle on the belt of middle class leadership; so that far and wide when one asks, "What good comes from 'Mormonism'?" the answer is read, "Look and see!" Judged by the samples sent out, the Christian character making power of this gospel dispensation, is indeed a "marvel and a wonder." These samples are not the product of any one project of the dispensation, but rather the output of many projects: home projects, Priesthood projects, Relief Society projects, Sunday School projects, Church School projects, Mutual Improvement projects, Primary projects, and Genealogical projects; each with its specific purposes and all with a common interest and a universal aim; each in competition with itself and in cooperation with all the others. The high aims, the superior operative characteristics of its organization, and the effectiveness of its projects, are indisputable evidence that Latter-day Saint Church building is character building; it is Christian character building, for it is a kingdom building, that of this world, but not of this world alone.
III. The Home Beautiful Project. In the production of character, three great forces are constantly operative: example, instruction, and environment, and of the environment the home is fundamental. In the order of progress, we have the home protective, then
the home plentiful, then the home comfortable, then the home beautiful. The scenic beauty of our Zion's center of population has put the homes of the Saints in the show case of the world, as the endless procession of tourists pass along our highways; Zion is known by her buildings and their surroundings. It must not be forgotten that paint spells prosperity, and that well-kept yards smile and tell of culture. The home beautiful is an essential part of the Zion building. We sing, "Let Zion in her beauty rise," but the home beautifier says, "See Zion in her beauty rise." The home beautiful is called for by the example of the Church in its temple buildings and the temple grounds. Each of the houses of the Lord has its individual architecture and its fitting surrounding, but they are all alike in being beautiful. The influence of example is added to by instruction; and these two, reinforced by project activity, reach objective with the greatest speed. Industrial interests have projects for home-building; commercial interests have projects for home conveniences, comforts, and luxuries; and these projects are pushed to the limit of safety. And some efforts are being made in the line of education in the direction of having beautiful homes in beautiful settings?that our Zion may be a fitting symbol of the bride, not only in its character but in its apparel also. Every L. D. S. Home is a part of the attire of the Church.
Questions and Problems
1. Why must aims be fixed?
2. Why must projects be adjustable?
3. Wherein is joy more than happiness?
4. Discuss the demand of the world to see results rather than to listen to gospel doctrine?
5. What are the indisputable proofs that Latter-day Saint Church building is a form of superior Christian character-building?
6. Speak five minutes on the topic, "It pays to paint."
7. How do Latter-day Saint temples and temple grounds point to the truth that beautification is an essential part of Zion-building?
8. In what respect is every Latter-day Saint home a part of the attire of the Church?
9. Discuss (a) The need of a home beautiful project in the Church; (b) The organization best adapted to put such a project on foot and put it over.

LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in October)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR OCTOBER?THE HOME
The Home as a Social Center
"I do not believe that this nation has ever produced in its history a finer type of youth than the present generation, but I am convinced that society, the home, and the school are not measuring up to the responsibilities which rightfully belong to them."?Judge Fred R. Morgan of the Juvenile Court, Salt Lake City.
I. Among the family group. A. Agreeable conversation. B. Music. C. Games. D. Well planned social periods. E. Proper use of meal times as social periods. F. Special programs.
II. For association with friends. A. The home a place for friendships and mutual visits. B. Encourage children to entertain friends at home. C. Group parties. Facilities for entertaining. Interest in the group. Hospitality. Suggestive programs for entertaining groups of different ages, delightful and in keeping with L. D. S. Ideals.
"Make the home the most dignified, attractive, and charming place to be found. The place to rush to, rather than to rush from?a place of arrival rather than a place of departure. A place fulfilling every noble desire."?Elder Stephen L. Richards.
Robert Colley Angell, in the March number of the Forum, just off the press, in an article entitled, "Roots of College Evils," has this to say on this subject:
"Nowadays, the parents, distracted by other duties and absorbed in their own pleasures, turn the larger share of the task of education over to the schools; while the children do not find the learning process adventurous enough to compete with the more colorful pursuits at hand. * * * A quiet evening in the family circle, talking, reading, or playing games, is a rare exception in modern American life. Parents as well as children find their amusement elsewhere after the evening meal."
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in October)
BERTHA A. KLEINMAN
Bertha A. Kleinman was born in a part of Salt Lake City familiar to many of our readers. It was in the region of the 18th ward, taking in the hills that in her childhood were carpeted with wild flowers and that followed the trail of City Creek to the old mill?a place regarded with awe and delight by the children who listened to the whirr of the big wheel and saw the crystal waters of City Creek splash over it. The details of this sketch have been furnished by Mrs. Kleinman's mother. We follow these details rather closely; but before making use of the biographical material, we wish to pay tribute to Mrs. Kleinman for the recognition she has received in various magazines of the country. She is certainly one of the best known poets of this intermountain region, one of whom we are sure the State of Arizona is justly proud, for her poems have been published in Harper's Bazar, The Ladies' Home Journal, Little Folks, Out West, Pacific Coast Musician, Our Dumb Animals, The Classmate, The Quarterly Review, Child's Garden, The Boy's Comrade, The Young American, The National Conservation Bulletin; recently eight were accepted for the new Latter-day Saints' Hymnology. Her mother writes: "She was born October 1, 1877, on the brow of the hill overlooking City Creek Canyon. Her favorite haunts were the canyon and hills about. Her father, James Anderson, was of Danish descent, one of Utah's pioneers, who emigrated to Utah as a young man, walking the entire distance across the plains. Her mother, Eliza Clissold Anderson, emigrated with her parents from Birmingham, England, as a little girl of twelve." In the name of our poet, Bertha Eliza, we recognize her mother's name; yet that same mother assures us that the thought in naming her was not only that she should retain her mother's name, but that she should be called after Eliza Roxey Snow, the distinguished writer of Latter-day Saint hymns. Whether there is anything in a name or not is perhaps a matter of conjecture; however that may be, it would seem that the spirit of Eliza R. Snow has been with Mrs. Kleinman; for, like her famed predecessor, she has written many songs and is now the author of a group of Latter-day Saint hymns. She tells us that Apostle Orson F. Whitney, himself a poet and her bishop when she lived in Salt Lake, has been a great inspiration to her and that John Nicholsen, a neighbor, who discovered her

talent for verse writing at a very early age, did much to encourage her. Her first poem was published in one of the earliest numbers of the Young Woman's Journal when Susa Young Gates was its editor. Bertha was then only twelve years of age. Mrs. Gates wrote her a letter, explaining somewhat the technique of metrical composition. "After thirty-five years," says Mrs. Kleinman's mother, "I find it still preserved in her scrapbook. She says it has been of more value to her than all the treatises on Rhetoric, or the lexicons of synonyms and rhymes that are the guides of students today." "She first went to school in the old adobe school house just within the Eagle Gate?the school house erected by President Young for his own children. Here she wrote her first poem upon her slate; this was a eulogy of her fellow students, and it received favorable comment from her teachers, Dr. Ada B. Faust and Gideon M. Mumford, who did much to encourage her childish efforts." To follow her mother's narrative: "At the age of thirteen she graduated from the 18th ward L. D. S. Seminary and was chosen class poet and Valedictorian. At the age of eighteen she graduated from the L. D. S. College, having received her Certificate in Kindergarten training from the Brigham Young University of Provo. For two years she taught under the Utah Kindergarten Association, then again entered the L. D. S. College for a course in Business Training, taking a position in the Presiding Bishop's Office at the end of a few months. She was the first girl to enter the employ of the Presiding Bishopric and retained her position for seven years, at which time she married." The union was with Orson C. Kleinman, a member of a well known Arizona family and an employee of the Utah Idaho Sugar Company. Elder Kleinman had but recently returned from a mission to Germany. His main business interests as a cattle man, were in Arizona; so they sold their home in Salt Lake and moved to Mesa, where they have since resided. Undoubtedly Mrs. Kleinman has been a very real asset to the community in which she has lived these many years. She is now the mother of four stalwart sons and two lovely daughters, who have been the chief source of her inspiration through the busy years of home-building and community service. Her tribute to them she has often expressed in the words, "I have everything to do to live up to my children." "Always an ardent worker in the auxiliary organizations, Mrs. Kleinman has taught in every department of the Sunday School, being an officer of both ward and Stake before her marriage, in the 18th, 10th and 33rd wards. For three years she was Kindergarten Supervisor of the Sunday Schools of
Liberty Stake, was also first counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A. to President Lotta Paul Baxter, for whom she formed a lifelong friendship. In the Emerson ward she was a Primary executive for two years. During her residence in Mesa, she has taught in the Relief Society and Primary, and for two years has been an executive in the Stake Primary. She has served seven years on the Y. L. M. I. A. Stake Board, and is now first counselor to President Lisana Brimhall in its Presidency. "In a civic way, she has always been active, being Publicity chairman of the Musician's Club for three years, and chairman of the Legislative and Applied Education Departments of the Woman's Club of Mesa for the past three years. During that time she has also been Secretary of the Mesa Commercial Club, stenographer of the Mesa Rotary Club, and Librarian of the Mesa City Library?positions which she recently resigned when appointed as Assistant Recorder of the Arizona Temple. Her work has been addressed to all walks of life. She is never too hurried to pen her contribution?her toast, her measure of consolation?and no one, from the tiniest child or the humblest supplicant, has ever been refused her tribute. In sorrow, in illness and distress, as likewise in joy and congratulation, her word of cheer has found its way into the homes of hundreds. She has a touching fondness for the aged, and some of her best work has been written in eulogy and admiration for them. Her files contain letters of appreciation from senators, legislators, governors of states, ministers, from Mrs. Warren G. Harding, Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, Carrie Jacobs Bond, and numerous editors and commentators." Any knowledge of Bertha A. Kleinman's poems will reveal the fact that she is a versatile writer. Two of her poems that we print here were undoubtedly inspired by her own children. A poem that she calls one of her favorites is entitled "The Kingdom" and is a tribute to her own boys and girls. Another, entitled "Your Boy," was very likely written to her own husband, but is applicable, of course, to all fathers. We shall here include "The Kingdom" and follow with "Your Boy."
THE KINGDOM
If I would fathom the miracle Of God's magnanimity, I need but serve at the oracle Where my little child trusts in me;
If I would reason his Providence, With logic pro and con, I need but treasure the confidence, My children build upon.

If I would travel the Holy-land, I need not travel far, For the Kingdom borders near at hand, Where the feet of the children are;
If I would merge my trust supreme, In the might of His diagram, I need but soar on my children's dream, And be what they think I am.
Your Boy
There isn't a boy in the world?not one? But longs to be big like you, Who thrills at the sound when you call him "Son" And copies the things you do,
Whose shoulders, braced to the world's demand, Are squared and broad and strong; As yours are squared when you take his hand And lead that boy along.
There isn't a boy on the wide-flung map But longs for your manly pace, Who chafes at the years and the long-grown gap Till he stands with you face to face,
A kingly giant in miniature, Evolving might on might? A god to be, just as true and sure As you lead that boy aright!
Mrs. Kleinman has written many tributes to friends, a splendid example of this style of writing and one that will, we are sure, tend to give comfort to women in general, is a tribute to Ellen E. Tiffany, which follows:
A TRIBUTE TO OUR BELOVED SISTER, ELLEN E. TIFFANY
There's so much we loved about her?constancy and zeal throughout her, Oh, so much that made us glad to call her friend! Yet we knew it too about her that a day could dawn without her, And how little it would count to tell it then.
There were days when she was worried, when we passed by all too hurried, Knowing well the grind and stress of every day; Days when she was tired, tested, and her right to joy molested, Yet we passed in careless greeting on our way.
Well and fit?she never wavered to request or sue for favor, That perhaps would be so easy to bestow, When we knew no other neighbor has a conscience that was braver, Yet we chanced some other day to let her know.
In the needs of every hour, with her faith and love and power, She has carved her monumentals deeply, daily, on and on; We have learned to know her tether by her splendid, staunch endeavor, How slow we were to pass her praise along.
Oh, why is it hard to tell it, when we have such words to spell it? Things she richly earned and needed us to say? Why should scenes like this approach us, wring our heartstrings and reproach us, For the flow'rs we failed to strew along her way!
Lowly toil?she knew its meaning, days of hers were filled and teeming, Yet with smiles she met each handicap and care, Yes, she smiled when days were dreary?others gloomy?she was cheery, And we're going to miss her good smile everywhere.
In the days that dawn without her, you who loved and clung about her, May her sunshine linger ever at your side; And though God has seemed to smite you, He will heal and bless and guide you, In her footsteps where her star is sanctified!
Mrs. Kleinman appreciated Art. Her poem, "In Things of Art," will, we feel, substantiate this statement.
IN THINGS OF ART
I builded an epic, line on line, Of stately diction and chaste design, Each canto girt with metric song, But all in all my theme was wrong? My ode from art was fugitive? I left Love out and it will not live.
I fashioned a tale of lustrous deed, And sent it forth for the world to read, With gibe and satire unafraid, With quirp and quirk to lend it aid? I placed my treatise on revue, But Love?not there?my book died, too.

I thrilled a song on an ether length, And sent it forth in its pristine strength, Attuned to rote of staff and score, A brilliant cleft of sounds?no more? I left Love out and my song rebounds, An argosy of empty sounds.
And so I fail in things of art, Who spurn the dictum of the heart, My soul with Love must teem and burn, My soul for yours must writhe and yearn, For the force of maul and the fire of pen Is Love, much Love for my fellow men!
We are told that Mrs. Kleinman has always been deeply interested in civic life. In her poem, "The Beautiful City," she certainly expresses a wholesome attitude toward the community where she lives. In every city there are critics who would make one feel that everything is wrong in that particular city in which they live. Mrs. Kleinman's attitude is wholesome, fresh and full of faith.
THE BEAUTIFUL CITY
What matter the lure and the calling Of places I never shall see? Wherever the sunlight is falling The Beautiful City may be.
What matter the strands that are sainted, With laurel and temple and shrine, Wherever my vision is painted Is the Beautiful City of mine.
What matter the song and the story, What matter the star in the East, The rays on my home-land are glory, And make it the City of Peace.
What matter the shores that are holy While Truth is resplendent and free, My own?be it ever so lowly, Is THE BEAUTIFUL CITY TO ME.
She loves trees, and "My Trees" is an evidence of this fact.
MY TREES
Trees seem like people, fine and tall, And shedding down their good? I never think of trees at all Like common logs of wood;