[Vol7 | June 1920 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Editorial | Title: High Prices]

The most popular topic of conversation is the high prices. We pay extravagant prices for everything we get, and we are all ready to scold about the cost of potatoes, sugar, flour and meat, dress goods and shoes. We don't seem to realize that when one man or one business raises prices everybody else follows suit. Indeed, that is the law of supply and demand. It is foolish to scold about it, the thing to do is to economize just the same as we would during hard times and then forget about it.

The purchasing value of a dollar today is said to be thirty three cents, and when you estimate prices on all your staple articles you will decide that that is about right. Wages have risen almost with prices, and so everybody has money; indeed, when prices are high and money is cheap and plentiful everybody has work, everybody has money and practically every body spends it lavishly. That, too, is the law of supply and demand.

When the financial crash comes, and Eastern financiers expect to see that conditions by next fall, prices will be lowered; but when that time comes the prices of articles we have will not only be lowered, but stocks and bonds will fall in value, wages will fall, men will be out of work sooner or later, and we will have a period of hard times; that also is part of the law of supply and demand.

Some of the wise men in this Church do not expect much peace or real prosperity for some years to come, prophesying to the contrary. We are taught in the scriptures that we will have famine, pestilence, war and desolation. We have now a little breathing spell in which to get ready for some of these "How shall we get ready?" of economy in the spending of our time and means.

Old clothes are very fashionable just now — all over the country clubs have adopted overalls and wearing of cast-off clothing, as a protest against high prices. Those of us who are fortunate enough to possess good home-made suits and dresses can well afford to wear them now and be proud and grateful that we are so fortunate. We may trim our own hats. Many of the leading sisters just now are wearing home-trimmed hats and it is not unusual with some of us to go down to the ten cent store and get a little fresh trimming to trim up an old hat. Shoes are patched and worn honorably. We are rather ashamed to put on a new and extravagant dress or garment.

We know how to do without much sugar, how to raise our own vegetables and to use substitutes for flour. We are perhaps the best equipped people to maintain ourselves along independent lines of any people on the earth. Let us not find fault with each other nor our business associates, for be sure we are all caught in the same net, and are all struggling together and raising prices together. Let us keep balanced, poised, and. above all. let us economize. If high prices can only bring L. D. S. women to habits of economy we will not regret present conditions.
