[Vol7 | June 1920 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson]

BEYOND ARSARETH 363 "Well, I'll tell you, and then when you read your book, be on the lookout for references." I promised him I would. "Our history begins, of course, as does all history, with our common father and mother, Adam and Eve;  but perhaps it will be going far enough back when I begin with Abraham. You read about him in your scriptures as we do in ours. You are acquainted with the dealings of the Lord with the children of Israel, their sojourn in Egypt, their deliverance, their forty years journey in the wilderness, and their establishment in the promised land. You have read of Saul, of David, and of Solomon, and of the prophets in Israel. "Your book should also tell of the trouble that came to the house of Israel after the death of Solomon, when Rehoboam was king." I had not then read about it, so he continued: "When Rehoboam was to be crowned king, all the congregation of Israel, with one Jeroboam, came to the new king and complained of the grievousness of the burdens of Solomon, his father, asking him to lighten the yoke which he had put upon them — if he would do this, they promised to serve him. The king took three days to consider the matter, and in the meantime, he consulted with the old counsellors of his father, who advised him to heed the peoples' request, but Rehoboam rather took the counsel of his own young companions, and told the people that he would make their yoke still heavier. 'My father chastised you with whips,' he said, 'but I will chastise you with scorpions.' Then ten of the tribes of Israel revolted and chose Jeroboam for their king. Rehoboam ruled in Jerusalem over the tribes of Judah and Benjamin, and from that time there were two kingdoms in Israel. Then came troublesome times. Wickedness was rife, until at least the Lord permitted Shalmaneser, king of Assyria, to conquer the ten tribes and lead them captive to his own country. "But they were not satisfied to live there. Their sufferings had made them somewhat penitent, and they desired to go to a land where they could be free from the influences of surrounding heathen nations. In their old home they had not kept the commandments of the Lord. But where could they go? To the east, south, and west of them, the lands were filled with people. Northward was their only hope, and northward they set their faces. There was a mighty nation traveling, and they had many difficulties to overcome, but the Lord was with them and led them forth. "Slowly they travelled with their flocks and their herds, 
 their tents and provisions. As they came further north the surface of the country changed, the days and nights varied greatly, and the climate became cold. Many of the fainthearted tarried by the wayside. As the toils of the journey increased, the discontented become more numerous and they refused to go further. They, therefore, remained in the lands passed through, and no doubt built themselves homes therein, multiplied and became a great people. Onward the main body went until they reached this land. How they crossed the barrier of ice — if the ice was there at that time — our history is strangely silent about. "Yes, the land was like a new world to them, with its long, dark nights and its long light days. But they accustomed themselves to the new conditions, the best they could. They organized themselves after the pattern of the people from whom they had come, and the Lord was with them to bless and to prosper, seeing they had their hearts set on serving him." Joseph paused, and I took the opportunity to say: "I have often wondered who were the progenitors of the people of northern Europe. Now, what you say leads me to believe that those of your people who remained behind become the founders of these races. I am a Norseman through my mother, therefore, I am to a degree, of the same race as Joseph looked at me keenly as I made this declaration. you." "Yes." he said, with a smile, "You, no doubt, are of our people Israel." And he placed his hand on my head as if to give me a blessing. (The record here is so torn and faded that a number of pages could not be deciphered. — J. B.) I read to Joseph the account of the crucifixion of Christ, translating the best I could from my Bible. He was deeply moved by the narration, and he said to me that as soon as I was able I was to write out the story so that all the people might know. "What become of the Jews?" asked Joseph. I thought for a moment to collect what I knew about them. "They were greatly punished," I said. "Some time after Christ, they were conquered and Jerusalem destroyed. They scattered all over the earth. The Jews are to be found in every nation, and in some countries they have been, and still are, treated cruelly." So in there the tone is no of longer a Jewish a statement of a nation?" said he Joseph, truth which knew, than that of a question. BEYOND ARSARETH 365 "No;  not that I know of," I replied. "Tell me more about Christ, the Savior," urged Joseph. "Did he visit any other people than the Jews? What does your book say about that?" "He remained in and about Jerusalem," I replied, "As far as I can learn — but, I remembered reading something about that. Let me see if I can find it." I turned over the leaves of my Bible and in the tenth chapter of St. John, I read: 'And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold;  them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice;  and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.' A light seemed to break upon me as I read, "Why," I said, "I remember you telling me that the savior has visited you also;  you must be that 'other sheep' of which he speaks. "In a way;  yes," replied Joseph, "but he explained to us that he had visited, before he had come to us 'other sheep' which were not on the land about Jerusalem. Is there not a body of land distant and apart from the land of Jerusalem?" "There is the American continent," I explained, but thought it was improbable that the savior should have visited it. I had never heard of it;  besides when the continent had been discovered by the Europeans, the only inhabitants in America was the wild and savage Indian. "Indians," repeated Joseph, "and they were dark and wild and savage?" "Yes." "The very ones — the very ones," he exclaimed as if a great problem had been solved. Then after a pause he said: "Wonderful, wonderful, every part of the earth has been visited by the Son of God, to every part has been delivered the glorious message, that none may be left without excuse." (To be continued.) On James H. Anderson. Guatemala had a revolution in April, the former government being overthrown. Japan and Russia were at war in April, several battles having been fought in old Russia. The United States lost $1,129,000,000 on the railways during the period of government control. Philippine Islands party leaders began an agitation in April for independence from the United States, by force of arms if necessary. Mexico is in the throes of a revolution, five states having joined with Sonora in aji uprising against the Carranza government while Carranza has fled. In Salt Lake City, on April 17, a windstorm reached a velocity of seventy-two miles per hour, and did much damage to trees and buildings. Turkey was at war with the Greeks as well as with the French, in April, guerrilla warfare being carried on. There is trouble ahead there. The woman surplus in England in 1919 was 1,500,000 against one-fifth of that number in 1851. Sociologists have not yet offered the only solution. Congress agreed in April to take short recesses after