[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Saturday evening, July 9, we had a
pleasant evening with Mrs. Hatch of Dallas,
Texas, and her brother and sister, Mr. and
Miss Buck, of Laporte, Indiana. The
young ladies are accomplished musicians.
Miss Buck not only sings and plays but
composes music.. Vacation Warbles and
other pieces of her own composition were
admirably rendered on the piano from
memory, and she sang by request, Sweet-
heart, Last Night, and The Sweetest Story
Ever Told. The young lady is also an
artist and excels in figure painting. The
other sister is quite gifted also and both are
very interesting.

	Mrs. J. E. Bamberger gave a fine lunch-
eon to a few ladies (about fifteen) on July
15,at her handsome residence in this city. As
we could not be present to see we are not
quite able to give the details, but have been
nformed it was a very pleasant party.
Among the guests were Mrs. Kate Tannatt
Woods of Boston, a distinguished visitor to
the city; Mrs. Amelia F. Young, Mrs. Sol.
Seigel, Mrs. Henry Seigel, Mrs. Simon
Bamberger, Mrs. Hanueuer, Mrs. W. P
Lynn, Mrs. C. E. Allen, Mrs. John Q.
Cannon and others. And certainly we
know Mrs. Bamberger to be a most genial
and entertaining hostess.
	We had the great pleasure of having
Mrs. Kate Tannatt Woods of Boston, at
our house for a few hours on Monday,
July 18, and also Mrs. W. P. Lynn of this
city, besides members of our own family
whom we wished should meet Mrs. Woods,
who is certainly one of the most interesting
conversationalists we have ever met, and as
she has traveled extensively and has known
so many celebrities, and besides has lived
in a most historic part of New England
near Salem, Danvers, Cambridge, Andover,


Amesbury, Haverhill and other notable
places in close proximity, how could she
help being a celebrity herself, if she par-
took of her surroundings. Sometime we
shall tell our readers more about this intel-
lectual woman, who every year writes a
book for children.
	Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, of Washing-
ton, D. C., paid a brief visit to our city, ar-
riving on the 25th of July; we had met her
at the National Council in Washington in
1895, and she brought a letter of introduc-
tion to President George Q. Cannon. Mrs.
Barrett is National Superintendent of the
Florence Crittenden Homes, and is deeply
interested in the work; she is a very fasci-
nating woman in conversation, decidedly
clever and brilliant, has traveled extensive-
ly and knows many celebrities in our own
and foreign lands; has visited Japan, the
Holy Land and even Africa as well as near-
ly all the European countries, including
Spain; has been presented at four European
courts. We had an exceedingly interest-
ing visit with her during her short sojourn
and regretted very much she could not re-
main in the city longer.
	On Thursday July 7, we had the pleasure
of a short visit and chat at our home with
Mrs. Mary S. Gist of Washington, D. C.,
whom we have known through the N. W.
P. A. for some years. She is in many re-
spects a remarkable woman, has been fore-
most in good works at the headquarters
where many enterprises are originated, and
has known much of public affairs in the
capital of the United States, is a newspaper
correspondent and engaged in many chari-
table societies. She was a delegate from the
National Press Association to the Biennial
at Denver, came on here and spoke at the
Mothers’ Congress and was greatly delight-
ed with what she saw and heard while in
our city. It is gratifying to have intellect-
ual people come among us who are free
from prejudice and can see the right side of
things. 
	On Friday, May 15, we had the pleasure
of attending the Relief Society conference
of Utah Stake held in Provo, accompanied
by Mrs. Sarah J. Cannon. The president,
Mrs. Mary John, and her counselors, Mrs.
Marilla M. Daniels and Mrs. Deborah Bil-
lings, were on the stand also Mrs. Carol B.
Pratt, the very efficient secretary. The
minutes of the previous conference held at
Pleasant Grove were excellent. A com-
mittee of ladies had prepared an elaborate
lunch in the basement of the old tabernacle
and a hundred or more women partook of
the bounteous repast waited upon by sweet
young maidens, the affair was very enjoy-
able. President David John was present
in the afternoon and made a few remarks,
encouraging the Society in its good work.
Representatives were present from most of
the settlements in the county and gave
good reports.
	The Maine Memorial services in the
Tabernacle in this city, Sunday July 24,
were very impressive. The music by the
choir of hundreds of voices and the prayer
offered by President Angus M. Cannon
were in keeping with the spirit of the occa-
sion recognized. The speakers, Senator
Frank J. Cannon and Representative Wm.
H. King, were both familiar with the sub-
ject of the destruction of the ill-fated Maine
and of the condition of Cuba and with
Spanish cruelty, and their remarks were
fitting and eloquently earnest. The music
of the great organ lent significance to the
ceremonies and had it not been the Sabbath
and in a sacred place of worship, no doubt
the speakers and singers would have been
greeted with tremendous applause. Presi-
dent George Q Cannon offered the benedic-
tion which was a fitting tribute to the mem-
ory of the martyrs of the Maine. An orig-
nal poem entitled “Columbia” was given
by the author himself in a very pleasing
manner, and a collection was taken to as-
sist in erecting a suitable monument to the
memory of the martyrs who found an un-
timely grave in the briny deep, which was
a decidedly new departure from the estab-
lished custom of the Latter-day Saints who
do not solicit means from a congregation.
As there was a large congregation it is
hoped that a considerably large sum was
raised here and if also elsewhere in the State
Utah will have contributed a good share to
this laudable enterprise.
	The Primary Associations of Salt Lake
Stake under the auspices of the officers of
the Stake board and committee had an ex-
cursion to Saltair on Tuesday July 19, which 
was a very pleasant affair. Presidents Wil-
ford Woodruff and George Q. Cannon and
wife, also Counselors Jos. E. Taylor and
wife and C. W. Penrose and wife, Prof.
Karl G. Maeser and wife and some others
were guests of the party. The committee
had decorated the table beautifully and the
repast was daintily arranged and partaken
with a relish such as the salt air gives.
After lunch there were a few exercises by
the children and remarks suited to the time
and place were made by Presidents Wood-
ruff and Cannon. The children acquitted
themselves well, the flag drill, the dancing
by two wee small ones, the Highland fling
and the recitation by little Miss Penrose
Jones were all good. The singing of the
children under the direction of Brother
Bassett was good and patriotic. America
and The Star Spangled Banner always
thrills an audience and more especially in a
time like the present when the people are
already enthused. Much credit is due
those who had the training of the little ones
and to all who in any way contributed to
make the affair so pleasant and successful.
Success to the Primary and those who are
laboring in its interest, seeking to train the
children of this people in the paths of vir-
tue, truth and honesty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OFFICERS MEETING,
	The officers’ meeting of the general con-
ference was held in the Assembly hall in
this city April 9, 1898, President Zina D.
H. Young presiding. Meeting opened
with singing “O, my Father.” Prayer
was offered by Dr. R. B. Pratt. Singing
“We thank Thee O, God for a prophet.”
	The president said, “We are all happy
and gratified to be able to meet together to
see each others faces, and especially are we
glad to see those from a distance whom we
seldom see, and I thank my Heavenly
Father that we enjoy so many blessings.
I would like to hear from Sister Rhoda
Hinman from Canada.”
	Sister Hinman said, “We have the Holy
Spirit with us. I remember when the Re-
lief Society was first organized; this work is
increasing from North to South and from
East to West.” Sister Hinman made
other interesting remarks.

[Column 2]
	Bannock Stake was reported by Sister
Susan Watts Burton, Bingham by the
president, Emma J. Bennett, who said that
in traveling through the Stake although
they traveled always by team no accident
had ever happened except last summer
when they had a runaway and six or seven
of them were bruised but that was all, felt
they had been preserved by an over-ruling
power. President Emily G. Cluff gave an
excellent account of the Hawiian sisters,
their industry, energy, and faithfulness.
	Counselor Kate L. Paxman of Juab Stake
spoke of the nice comfortable houses they
had in Nephi, and when they met in their
halls it seemed to her they were as sacred
as a temple, and said what excellent times
they had together among the sisters, and
also what support the presiding brethren in
the Stake gave them and how united they
were. 
	President Lydia Rich of Morgan Stake,
in representing said, “We have good sisters
and we have faith, it has been very effect-
ive in cases of sickness, angels are with us
and we feel their influence. We had diph-
theria in Morgan and we fasted and prayed
and the destroyer’s influence was stayed,
not another case broke out, the blessing of
the Lord has attended us all the day long.
	President Melissa Murdock of Charleston
Relief Society, spoke for Wasatch Stake,
referred to the death of Stake President
Emma Brown and stated that it was ex-
pected that another president would be ap-
pointed soon, thought all was going on
very well with the sisters in the Stake.
	President Jane S. Richards said in Weber
Stake the sisters were trying to do well,
to live peacably and love one another, they
had a good time at a late conference in the
ward where she lived and they bad many
good meetings and blessings, she enjoyed
working for the needy and considered the
labors and duties of the Society were spirit-
ual help, made many encouraging remarks
and felt we were greatly blessed of the
Lord.
	Counselor Annie E. Webster of Parowan
Stake, realized the greatness of the work
and that it was necessary we should be ex-
emplary in our labors and try to impress it
upon the mothers to teach correct princi-
ples in the home, to reckon with themselves
when night comes, go over the
events of the day, referred to her own child-
hood and early training.
	President Zina Young spoke on the silk
industry, told the sisters not to leave a
stone unturned in the silk business, set out
the cuttings of the mulberry trees, this
would help the children of the future; there
was no country in the world better adapted
to silk raising than this, sericulture would
give the women and children something to
do, it is an industry we can excel in and
give a great many employment, if we seek
good gifts they will be given to us, the gift
of wisdom if we pray for it. Sister Rhoda
Hinman’s mother, Mother Chase was set
apart by the Prophet Joseph to administer
to the sick and was one of the first in this
dispensation to attend to this ordinance; our
sisters should carry home from this confer-
ence the good word like a laurel or a sheaf
of grain to bless others with the teachings;
we must love each other and bless each
other also, we have a great mission, let us
have the spirit of kindness. “I was glad to
hear from those who are buildings houses,
we need houses of our own, we ought to
have a three days conference so that all


could speak and then we might be greatly 
benefited."
	President Sarah M. Kimball felt very 
much pleased to be present and to listen to
the teachings and to learn of the three
days' meetings, felt like Sister Zina about
having a house of our own, knew the sis-
ters had means. She had a different exper-
ience from some and her work had been dif-
ferent, but she believed she had a key to 
success in a measure and she would like to
give this key to the sisters in the Society,
it was the law of tithing; referred to a time
when a call was made, and she thought
how could she pay tithing, but the way
was opened and it was very peculiar; felt 
if one made a personal sacrifice the Lord
would bless one, and added that her exper-
ience had been pay your tithes and offerings
and the Lord will bless you. Sister Kimball
spoke of her acquaintance with the Prophet
Joseph in early days and said many excel-
lent things.
	President B. W. Smith urged the young-
er women as well as the older to join the
Relief Society said we should yet become
great and spread out in the land, prayed the
Lord to bless each and every one assembled,
talked of the days of Joseph the Prophet
and the good things he had said concerning
the Society, wanted us all to strive to do
good, to bless the sick, and comfort them,
say our prayers and live right and we
would be satisfied.
	A few closing remarks were made by the
president of love and blessing to all, the
congregation joined in singing "Praise God 
from whom all blessings flow," and confer-
ence was adjourned for six months. Prayer
was offered in the gift of tongues by Presi-
dent M. I. Horne, interpreted by Sister
Zina and Dr. E. S. Barney.
