[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: PATTY SESSIONS. | Author: Unknown]

PATTY SESSIONS.
	Patty Sessions was born in Bethel, Ox-
ford County, Maine, 1795, was married to
David Sessions, June 28, 1812, and settled
in the adjoining town of Newry.
	She was a member of the Methodist
church for seventeen years, and was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in 1834. She was the
mother of eight children and survived them
all but two; she has fifty-three grandchil-
dren, one hundred and thirty-seven great
grandchildren and twenty-two great great
grandchildren, making in all two hundred
and fourteen posterity.
	They sold their property and left their
native land in June 1836, to share in the
troubles and persecutions of the Saints.
They traveled two thousand miles, camp-
ing out all the way, to Caldwell Co., Mis-
souri, they then purchased land and re-
m[--]ned in that place until 1838, when they
were driven out, they then went to Han-
cock Co. Illinois.
	They went to Nauvoo in an early day
and assisted in building up the city and also
the Temple. She was present at the meet-
ing when the Prophet Joseph Smith or-

[Column 2]
ganized the Relief Society; she joined the
Society then and remained an active mem-
ber as long as her health would permit.
	While at Nauvoo she was set apart by
Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball as
a doctor for women. Leaving Nauvoo she
went to Winter Quarters where she was
very efficient in waiting upon the sick,
especially the women. In 1847 she left
that place for Salt Lake City, driving an ox
team across the plains, where she arrived
on Sep. 26, 1847.
	Soon after she arrived in Salt Lake there
was an organization formed which was
called the Council of Health. Mother
Angell was president, Sister Sessions was
one of her counselors, and she acted in that
capacity as long as the society lasted. Dr.
Willard Richards, counselor to Brigham
Young, took a great interest in this Coun-
cil of Health.
	She was the president of a benevolent
society which was organized on June 10,
1854 for the purpose of clothing the Indian
women and children.
	She acted as a teacher in the Relief Soci-
ety from about the first of its organization
in the 16th ward until she left there and
moved to Bountiful in 1872, she there
opened her home for the benefit of the Soci-
ety and the teachers held their meetings in
her house for quite awhile.
	In 1883 she erected a school house for the
benefit of her grandchildren and the poor
of the ward who were not able to pay their
schooling. She left money enough in the
Parent Co-op so that the dividend will run
the school continuously ten months in the
year and pay all the expenses pertaining to
it. She took a great interest in the school
as long as she was able to take interest in
anything.
	She has donated very liberally to the
building of the Temples, she put eleven
hundred dollars in the Logan Temple and
gave a very great deal to the Salt Lake and
St. George Temples. She also donated
very liberally to the Perpetual Emigration
Fund, as much as two hundred dollars at a
time.
	She died a true and faithful Latter-day
Saint on Dec. 14, 1892, aged 97 years.
“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord.”
