Birthday Congratulations President David O. McKay September 8, 1969 The women of the Church throughout the world, in all dominions where the stakes and missions have been organized, remember with love and gratitude the ninety-sixth birthday of President David - O. McKay—prophet, seer, and revelator. Over the years the example of his life and his teachings has been a beacon and an inspiration to the saints in every land. His steadfast devotion to the gospel as a way of life has illuminated the pathway for individuals, for the families, and for the Church. In a time of world-wide questioning, in an age of multiple directions, in an era of divided allegiance, President McKay has demonstrated spiritual strength, wise counsel, discerning judgment, an uplifted, though humble spirit, and a living faith that transcends life upon the earth, reaches back into the plans and purposes of pre-existence, and looks forward to the glorious eternal life. President McKay has said: "Faith is the eternal light that will dispel threatening clouds. Faith in man is the power that leads to brotherhood; faith in God, the ladder which men climb toward perfection." In his teachings President McKay has emphasized that reverence for God and sacred observances is characteristic of a great soul. Truly, our Prophet, in himself, is a testimony of the gospel as a way of eternal life. "My faith gives me the assurance that God is indeed my father and therefore I must have inherited his immortality." Spirituality, he has said, is the highest acquisition of the soul. As Relief Society women—homemakers, wives, and mothers—at this time of special remembrance—this day of heartfelt gratitude —we recall the inspired counsel that President McKay has given for us in our time and place. In his home and with his family he has exemplified sincerity and devotion. "The dearest possession a man has is his family. In the divine assurance that family ties may transcend the boundaries of death, and may continue through endless ages of eternity, I find supreme consolation and inspiration. When the union of loved ones bears the seal of the Holy Priesthood, it is as eternal as love, as everlasting as spirit." As Relief Society women, we express thankfulness to our Heavenly Father for giving us a Prophet in these latter days—who speaks and lives as directed and inspired by the Spirit of God. 641 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 16,388 chars) ===

653 Gramps' Best Behavior m There were a dozen things she should be doing, Naomi thought—icing the cake she had baked earlier in the day and left to cool, the kitchen floor to be waxed, and the porch swept, probably scrubbed. She could go on and on, but she sat with Myra's note spread out in front of her. Myra had always been such a loyal one—it wasn't like her to make such a request. She gathered up the letter and read again slowly. Dear Mom, I'm bringing David and his grandfather home with me to meet the family. Oh, Mom, he's so wonderful, it's important that everything goes well. David means a great deal to me. I want you all to like him, and I want him to like everyone. Mom, would you think I was terribly unkind if I suggested that Gramps visit Uncle Bill over the week end? I'm just 654 Helen H. Trutton not sure if the present is the right time for David to meet him. Don't misunderstand me, you know how I love Gramps. Love, Myra P. S. We should be home late Friday afternoon. Naomi scooped up the letter and tucked it in her apron pocket before strolling to the large French doors that opened upon the backyard. Wonderful Gramps, she thought, he's been a tower of strength to us all. How could she ever have managed without him when Walter died? What was it Walter used to say about his father? "Pa's a discerning one— only the genuine survive him." Naomi thought, Myra's afraid Gramps and David won't hit it off. She hasn't forgotten the Darrel Murch incident. Darrel was her first beau in high school. He had dared to ridicule Gramps and his pioneer tales Gramps loved to tell. Myra had never gone with Darrel again. She drew upon the paneled glass doors to let in soft spring breezes scented with lilacs and roses. I'm not going to hurt Gramps—I just can't. If things are serious between David and Myra, he may as well meet all the family at one time. A bushy shock of gray hair appeared suddenly around the rose bush catching her gaze. She smiled—that was really the most distinguishable feature about Gramps, his hair, and next you noticed that his kindly gray eyes were almost the same color. When he edged a little nearer the patio, she called to him. "Gramps, you've worked long enough. Ill get you a glass of cool lemonade." "Wow, thanks, Mom," Mike stuck his head around the other side of the bush. "Gramps sure works a guy—spring vacation, ha!" "It's good for you, boy. Most folks nowadays are too puny. Why, back in my day and when your Pa was young, this was play." Mike grunted. That lemonade?" "I have some fresh made in the refrigerator. I'll get it." "Let me," Mike said, and he disappeared around the corner of the house. Gramps stood up. He was tall, his years had not bent him in the least. "Thought I saw the mailman coming down the street. Did you hear from Myra?" "Yes, a short note." His eyes brightened. "Is pie "Mom, about Gramps' Best Behavior coming home this week end?" "Yes, and bringing two guests." "Two, eh?" Naomi walked out onto the patio and sat down in a chair, motioning him to sit opposite her. "She's bringing a young man she met at college and his grandfather, David Stewart, she's mentioned him frequently." "IT know. The grandpa's a professor, isn't he?" "Yes, I think he teaches history at the university. David has lived with him since his parents' death several years ago." "History's my speciality." "What about history?" Mike asked as he returned with a pitcher and three glasses. "Myra is inviting her friend and his grandpa here," Gramps answered. "We should have an interesting time." "'m glad Ill be away at camp. Girls act so—so silly." "That's no way to talk about your sister," the old man said. "From what I hear, Myra likes him a heap." "Yes, she does,' Naomi answered. Looking directly at Gramps. "We've all got to be on our best behavior." Mike slipped into a _ chair, sipping his lemonade. "Wow, remember when Darrel Murch came to see Myra, Gramps? You scared him clear off the place." "Mike!" Naomi said sharply. "You're exaggerating." "Maybe he didn't exactly scare him, but he sure never came back." "It was just as well,' Gramps said. "Yeah, he was a snob. Imagine laughing at Gramps' stories, and 

655 September 1969

 saying he just made them up." Naomi put her glass down. "Mike, let's change the subject. I'm quite sure David won't be anything like the Murch boy." "Well, I should hope not," Gramps said firmly. "He wasn't right for our Myra." "That was four years ago," Naomi said. "Myra's a grown young lady now." "Not to me she's still a little girl, but I reckon if she's gone and found the one she wants, I'll do my best to like him," Gramps said as he got to his feet and handed her his empty glass. "I'd better get back to my job so I'll be finished when they get here." "Say, Gramps, you could go camping with me if you want to," Mike said, joining him back at the rosebush. "Then if you don't like him." "No, Siree,"' Gramps stated emphatically. "I wouldn't miss meeting the two for anything. Not 'all the king's horses' could drag me away today." "Just thought I'd ask,' Mike said, "sorry I have to leave you Gramps, and gather up my camping stuff right away." "And I must get busy," Naomi said, arising from her chair. "Mike, try to get home early enough tomorrow to spend some time with your sister and meet her friends." "All right, Mom." WA, I have my answer from Gramps, Naomi thought as she returned to the kitchen. He's spending the week end right here, and that was that. She took a dish from the cupboard. Naturally he wants to meet David. She 656 didn't blame him, but Myra had a point, too. For a moment she lowered her head. "Dear Father in heaven, help us to work things out without hurting anyone." She felt better immediately. I've been being too melodramatic she told herself while she beat the cake icing. What could possibly happen? Myra was worrying about something that happened years ago when the Murch boy was going through a smarty stage. But supposing Gramps didn't like David? He wasn't exactly the silent type about his dislikes—but Walter was right about his father, "Only the genuine survive him'—and if the young man wasn't fine. Since Myra had been attending the university, David was the first young man she had invited home. Myra must be fond of him; he must be someone extra special, Naomi reflected. She poured a large portion of the creamy white frosting on the cake and dabbed the sides. If he isn't genuine, Gramps, with his keen insight of human nature, would—why was she crossing bridges she might never come to? She had faith in her daughter's judgment—David would be all Myra had said he was and more. "Can I help?" Gramps poked his head around the kitchen door just as she finished decorating the cake. "I'm through in the yard." "Thank you, manage very well." "Then reckon Ill clean up a bit. I don't want the tyke to be ashamed of her old grampa." "As if she could be," Naomi laughed. Gramps. [ll The afternoon simply flew; she was glad of that. And surely I haven't even had time to think about David's grandfather, Naomi thought as she sat down on the davenport to relax and await her guests. I just hope Gramps and he will like each other. She didn't have long to wonder. At a quarter to five she saw them turn in at the driveway and stop. She hurried out the door to find Gramps already waiting for them. "Hello," Myra called happily. "How are you?" Gramps opened the car door. "Fit as a fiddle. This must be...." "This is David Stewart, and - his* grandfather—and this is Gramps and my mother," she said. "Well, now it's mighty nice meeting you both," Gramps said, extending his hand. "We're delighted to meet you. Please come in,' Naomi said cordially. "I hope you don't mind my tagging along with David and Myra," Mr. Stewart~ remarked as he crawled from the car. -~"T should say not,' Gramps cut in before she had a chance to answer. "Understand you're a history teacher?" "Ves." "History's my favorite subject." He chuckled. "I've lived through quite a speck of it." "You and Grandfather will hit it off famously," David said. "If it's history, Grandfather is interested." Just for an instant, Naomi saw a frightened look in Myra's eyes, but she quickly recovered and smiled at David. Gramps' Best Behavior "Shall we go in?" "It seems like yesterday Myra was a little tyke, and I carried her around piggy-back. Now here she is a young lady,' Gramps volunteered on the way to the house. "Oh, Gramps," Myra said, her face coloring slightly. "It's really been quite awhile." "T guess it just seems that way to an old man," he said sadly. Si. Slipped her arms around his waist. "It's nice to remember, Gramps. And it was fun," she whispered. Naomismiled. How quickly she responds when she thinks she has hurt him! "My father-in-law will show you two to your room," Naomi said, "and Myra can share my room. [ll help you with your load, dear." "Might as well put your bags in your room now," Gramps said, leading the way to the stairs. "Right this way." 'Naomi turned to her daughter when they were alone in their room. "I hope you understand. Gramps wouldn't miss seeing you, and he wanted so much to meet David—I couldn't break his heart." _Myra sat down. "I know, Mom. I felt like a traitor asking such a thing. I just don't want anything to go wrong." "Nothing will. You are the last person in the world Gramps would want to hurt." "I know that, Mother. He wouldn't mean to, but I keep remembering—Darrel Murch." "That was several years ago. You didn't really care for him, did you?" 

657 September 1969

 "No, of course not, but David's different." "Does he mean so much to you?" "T'm—I'm hoping—dreaming he will propose—maybe here." Naomi took her daughter's hand in hers. "Are you sure he's the right one?" "I'm very sure, Mother." She kissed her daughter. "Then I hope he loves you, too. Now we'd better go downstairs and finish dinner." "What's the menu?" Naomi smiled. "Things I thought your guests would like— fried chicken, mashed potatoes, hot bisquits, cake, and all the rest." "Sounds great. Good food, plus pleasant conversation, I trust,' Myra said hopefully. "The evening will go well." She was right, too. Myra and David kept a steady conversation going about school, mutual friends and Church activities. Gramps sat straight in his chair listening to every comment made by David, ready to pounce on any provocative statement, while Brother Stewart, a little more subtle, was just as concerned about the welfare of his only grandson. How she wished she could read their minds, or did she? The two young people didn't seem the least concerned. A was after dinner when they were in the living room that Gramps ran his fingers through his hair, as he often did when he had a point to make, and looked directly at David. "This modern generation, I don't think they have much purpose in life. Why, when I was a boy, we knew." 658 "Well, Sir, I guess each generation thinks it's the best. I don't agree with you that your generation had more purpose. I think the young people of today probably both right; each generation has its problems, and its aspirations, too." "Folks are soft today. Believe me in my day you didn't live if.". "We try to meet the challenge of our day, Sir. True, we aren't called to walk across the plains like many of our ancestors, but I'll wager if we were called upon to do that today, we'd manage." Gramps raised his eyebrows. "You don't agree with me on much of anything, do you, Son?" "If you mean about our generation, I'm afraid I don't. Oh, I know there are slackers today, but there were in your time, too." "Let's change the subject," Naomi said. Myra looked worried. "Yes, let's do," she said. "T find the subject stimulating," Brother Stewart remarked. "You know, Brother Lawes, I have some interesting memories of our day, too." "IT remember when I was a boy,' Gramps began, and the conversation continued until bedtime—probably way beyond. Naomi and Myra could hear them talking long after they had retired. "Oh, Mom," Myra buried her head in the pillow. "David will never, never, accept another invitation. He must be terribly bored." "If he loves you, I doubt if a little boring discussion will exactly frighten him away. Besides, I thought he rather enjoyed it." "Gramps doesn't like him.' "Don't be so sure." Myra turned over in_ bed. "Gramps seems so deliberate...." "He's concerned and I think he feels needed in protecting his granddaughter's interest. Be tolerant, darling. David will understand. Remember, he has a grandfather, too." Early the next morning Naomi heard the three of them tiptoe past the door and go quietly downstairs. She nudged Myra. "We'd better get up, too." "Isn't it terribly early?" asked sleepily. "Gramps never sleeps late." When they went downstairs a few minutes later, they were surprised to see Brother Stewart and David out on the patio alone. Brother Stewart was bent over laughing and David was writing. "They certainly seem cheerful," Naomi commented. "At least Brother Stewart." Myra looked puzzled. "He is always serious at school." "Something has struck him funny." Myra watched them for several more minutes, then she turned to her. 'Maybe they're laughing at Gramps." "Of course they're not." "Then why isn't Gramps with them? If I thought they were ridiculing his stories—like Darrel Murch did—I'd—I'd—" "I'm sure they aren't." "Poor Gramps." She flung the apron she had just started to put on across the room and banged TX "I know, Mom. Goodnight." @ yi, L&E, Gramps' Best Behavior out the door. "Where's Gramps?" she asked coldly as she swung past the two startled men. Brother Stewart had stopped laughing as he pointed to the backyard. "Out there," he said. David stared after her. IDA Sy SEG os. / bp \\\ BN I Naomi followed, then stopped abruptly when she saw Gramps sitting forlornly in an old chair at the edge of the yard whittling on a piece of wood. "Oh, no," she cried. Myra was _ night; g 'Gramps had been hurt again— and it was her fault; she should have insisted.... She watched, unable to move, as Myra ran to his side and knelt beside him, resting her head on his knees. "Gramps," she whispered. "Dear Gramps, I'm sorry." 

659 September 1969

 Absent-mindedly he _ ruffled her hair. "Don't bother me, tyke," he said. "What's wrong?" Naomi managed to ask. After a long wait, he looked at her through his kindly gray eyes. "That young man _ has asked for my granddaughter's hand I'm deciding." Then he turned toward the patio. "Come on out here, David," he called. Myra appeared stunned as she stood up, looking from Gramps to David. Brother Stewart joined them, holding up a piece of paper. "Your Grandfather and I have been collaborating a big share of the night on a book on pioneer life. He told me some humorous accounts that should make our book invaluable. I've never laughed so much." Naomi saw the color come back into her daughter's face. She swallowed several times, then bent down and asked in a low voice. "What are you deciding, Gramps?" "Well sir," he grinned up at her. "I reckon if I'd personally looked the whole university over, I wouldn't have come up with a better grandson." "Thank you, Sir," David said. "Could—could I talk to you,. Myra?"' Brother Stewart smiled happily at the two as he returned to the patio with his notes, and Naomi was alone with Gramps. He glanced up at her with an impish grin, his bright eyes shining. "By the way, Naomi," he asked, "how's my behavior? Personally, I don't think it's so bad." She laughed. "Not bad, but I'll admit I was rather worried last night. You gave that young man a rough time." He slipped his whittling knife back in his pocket. "Well, now," he drawled, "how you going to know what a fellow is really like —if you don't have a little friendly discussion? You can't get anywhere with just plain parlor talk. Leastways, I never could." She gave him a big hug as Walter's words flowed back into her mind. "Pa's a_ discerning one—only the genuine survive him." Well, David Stewart had survived him, and she was glad. So LATE SEPTEMBER This day is tangy sweet with ripening fruit, Shade-cool, but blazing hot in open sun. Such tawny autumn colors, glowing warm, Hold all of summer's loveliness, as one Arrayed in beauty flings her charms about Or scents the ditchbank, field, and streams. Late roses vie with apples, red and gold, To rouse nostalgic thoughts.