[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: in Israel Mothers in Israel Mary Ann Stearns Winters]

MOTHERS IN ISRAEL, 133 dollars' worth of provisions from Mr. Hawks' store, (now this is the same Mr. Hawks that gave my brother the sugar barrels to scrape out). It was explained to mother that when the Committee had solicited subscriptions from the merchants in behalf of the widows and destitute. Mr. Hawks had said. "No; I will not subscribe anything to you, but if widow Pratt is of a mind to come herself, I will give her ten dollars" worth of provisions to help on your cause." Mother replied that she had never been in Mr. Hawks' store as they sold liquor there as well as groceries, but the brother told her she would better go, for it was a gift not to be slighted, and no one could get it but her. He directed further that when she had obtained these groceries, whatever else we lacked of provisions would be made up out of the fund. Mother -and I thought as the brother did, that it was a gift not to be lightly passed by  and we felt that it was another channel of help that the Lord had opened up for our good. So the next day, just after dinner, mother and I went to the store and she explained to Mr. Hawks what she had come for and told him that we had been driven from our home in Illinois or we would not be in such destitute circumstances and needing help of this kind, that she accepted the gift with a grateful heart, and expressed the hope that he would be abundantly rewarded for his kindness and good gifts. I believe that down deep in his heart he was glad to give something to help the poor, persecuted, driven people. Right here I would like to say that / have remembered this good man in our holy temple, and I trust that some one has preached to him in the spirit world and that he will receive the benefit of the ordinances that have been performed in his behalf. The articles we got from the store were corn-meal, bacon, cod-fish, rice and other groceries with soap and some dried fruit, and true they were a great blessing and benefit to us. We had been buying our butter of Sister Ellison, who lived on the other side of town, and as we were then needing some, mother proposed that we take our sewing and visit Sister Ellison, as she had often asked us to do, for an hour or two and get the butter to bring home with us. After the greetings were over Sister Ellison began to inquire about our prospects for the journey (for that was the main topic among the Saints), and mother told her we -had the promise of a wagon and thought we would have plenty of provisions to last us, but she did not know where a learn and driver were coming from. Sister Ellison turned from her work and raised up her hands saying, "Well, I can tell you about that right now. There is a brother boarding with me who has been working all winter to get his team, and he wants to go in some one's wagon and drive this team. He will furnish his own provisions and would desire to have his washing done in 
 return for his services. He has a large yoke of oxen and two yoke of cows. Two of the cows are giving a good mess of milk now. At the end of the journey he would want each party to have his own property. He has been yoking them up and training them for a week or two and they are doing fine. He will be up to supper at six o'clock and you must stay and see him, for I believe it is just the right chance for both of you." Accordingly, at supper partial arrangements were made to be continued as preparations were advanced in the matter. All these opportunities had come to us in the short space of about one week. It was now getting to be the last days of May. One morning we heard a team at the door, and on looking out to see who had come, Brother Hyrum Winters stepped to the door saying, "Good morning. Sister Pratt  I have brought you a good wagon that I think will take you safely to the Valleys of the mountains. It is one of the best that has been made in our shop. It has a good double cover that will keep out the storms  there is a full bucket of tar under the seat; it is all ready to load and hitch onto for your company. May the Lord bless and prosper you and take you safely through." Tears of joy and gratitude filled our eyes as she thanked him in behalf of all who had helped to do this kind work. In a day or two we commenced loading our wagon and in one week after it stopped at our door, it started on its long journey westward. Just as the team was being hitched to the wagon, Sister Julia Babbitt, who lived on the hill just beyond us, came over to bid us good-by  she looked in the wagon and thought we could make out comfortably in that wagon, 'but," said she, "I see you haven't any tent, and you will need one, I have a little one that will be just right for you  it is one that I took out last year when we went and returned, h lid me good service, and you will find it very useful, and you are welcome to it, for I shall not need it. The hired man is coming with it and the table board. If you will send the little boys for the tern poles these can go right in the bows of the wagon and will not take up any extra room, and the table board will slip right in by the side of the wagon box." The dear soul, had them all neatly arranged by the time she was telling it. She had crossed the plains twice and she knew what to do. As she kissed mother good-by. she slipped a pretty ring from her hand and placed it on mother's finger saying, "Accept this as a token of my love and friendship for you. and I will remember you and pray for you on your journey." That was the last time we ever saw the dear, loving woman. She was good to everybody  white people and Indians  every want that she saw had her sympathy and help. Her trials have been great, but her reward is sure.