[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: A Morning Reverie Annie D. S. Palmer]

A Morning Reverie. By Annie D. S. Palmer. I awoke early this morning, but I did not arise early. 1 needs must think this morning of my friend, of my Relief Society President, of Tena Jensen. Thinking of Sister Jensen took me in spirit into the homes where Relief Society work is done, the homes where sickness and pain are found, where want and hunger dwell, where sin has entered, where the hush of death has fallen. Into these homes she and her noble associates go bravely, seeking to know the aid that may be given, administering the relief that human power can bestow. Thinking of Sister Jensen led me into the assemblies of earnest, busy women  the aged, where beautiful song and story are appreciated, where faith grows, where motherhood is honored. Thinking of her revealed to me the embodiment of devotion, of hope, of courage, of energy, of charity that never faileth. Thinking thus, I dreamed, and in my mind hurried; and, with almost the quickness of thought, I was carried some seventy-five or a hundred years into the sunlight of future joy. Seeking, T found Sister Jensen, silent and unknown, and followed her to note what she was doing. As she paused and knocked at a door that was closed, the thought of sickness and sorrow came to me  it was at such places she used most to visit. Not so at this home. The door was opened by a beautiful woman, white appareled, who threw her arms about Sister Jensen with such a cry of gladness that the whole household came to see and extend their welcome. "See," the woman said, indicating the family group and their surroundings, "this glorious, heavenly home is ours because of the help you gave to us while we were upon the earth. You encouraged us in the hour of temptation, you succored us in the moment of despair. And now, ah. there is no want, and sorrow is unknown. Yes, all our children are here, ten of them. How lonely we should feel in this great home with only two or three!" Sister Jensen freed herself from the loving embrace and went on. As we drew near to another mansion, a grim, gaunt figure approached whom I knew as Death. From the splendid house came two sisters hurrying down the path and laughing as they ran. These, too. clasped Sister Jensen in fond embrace. A MORNING REVERIE. 139 "We feared yon apparition once," said the younger woman, "and well we might. Do you remember the night he carried sister away? I shudder even now as I think of the cruel poverty, and the agonizing pain. But you comforted sister for the lonely power journey and cared for me when she was gone. He has no here; we laugh at his weakness. 'Oh grave, where is thy victory;' oh death, where is thy sting?'" Sister Jensen seemed to be looking for something special to do, so she hurried on. In the cool shade of a grove of palm trees a group of women sat in council. These espied the well known figure afar off and sent a messenger to bring her. "Noble Tena," the messenger said approaching, "we hold converse concerning the greatness of God's love, and how we may best show appreciation and let your voice be heard in the council of heaven's priestesses and queens." For a time she whom I followed was lost to me amid the throng of happy, white robed women who surrounded her; but I knew she was worthy of the honor they gave and that she would bear her part in the discussions of heavenly love even as she had shown wisdom in the affairs of earth. I now began to feel a great desire to draw near to her, to speak to her, to have her tell me of her life aand of the full measure of her joy. With this desire I waited full hour for her to quit the queenly council. She met me with the same glad smile, the same cheery welcome that I had always known. I had opportunity now to note the brightness of her eyes, the silky coils of hair, the smoothness of her skin, and the exquisite texture of her snowy robe. "I am so perfectly happy," she said. "There is always something to do, just as there used to be, but I never get tired now, and Father's work is so grand! There is so much joy in it! I often wonder why we ever thought it hard when on the earth. I am going now to meet a sweet old sister who is dreading to die. The dear old soul has suffered so_ much and is so weary of life  oh, she will be glad when it is over!" Then I awoke a realization of the fact that Sister Jensen, our Relief Society President, is still with us, that it was meeting day, and that I, too, had my part of the work to perform. Suggestive Programs Day. for Anniversary RELIEF SOCIETY DAY, MARCH 17. 1917. Darkness, hymn. "Dark is the Human Mind when Bound," Psalmody No. 2. Prayer. Restoration, hymn. "An Angel from on High," Psalmody No. 187. The Open Door, reading, "Instructions of the Prophet Joseph," March, 1915. Relief Society Magazine. Poem, Journal. "The Relief Society," March, 1915, Young Woman's Solo, "The Lord is My Light." Reading-. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 25. Hymn. "We Thank Thee. O God. for a Prophet." Hymn. "Ye Simple Souls Who Stray," Psalmody No. 186. Prayer. Hymn, "The Happy Day has Rolled On," Psalmody No. 1. Bible Reading, Isaiah, chapter 60. Recitation. "The Genesis of the Relief Society," March. 1915. Relief Society Magazine. Solo. "The Seer," Psalmody No. 314. Reading, "Report of Nauvoo Relief Society," March, 1915. Relief Society Magazine. Address, "The Objects of the Relief Society." Hymn, "How Blest was the Day," Psafrnody No. 429. "aunt em." Hymn. "Our Mountain Home so Dear." Prayer. Roll Call, Sentiments from "Aunt Em." Bible Reading, "The Virtuous Woman," Proverbs, chapter 31. Reading, "Mothers in Israel." February, 1916. 7?. S. Magazine. Sing or read "Sing we of a Home Immortal." Hymn Book, 423. Reading. "Aunt Em." March. 1915, Young Woman's Journal. Read Selections from Musings and Memories. Poem, "At Evening," March, 1915, Young Woman's Journal: September, 1916, R. S. Magazine. A TESTIMONY MEETING. Hymn, " 'Mid Scenes of Coofusion," Psalmody 286. Prayer. Hymn, "Welcome, Best of all Good Meetings," Psalmody 225.