[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Our Annual Day]
The  Relief  Society  Ward  President. 
By  Annie  Wells  Cannon. 
There  is,  in  my  opinion,  no  Church  officer  to  whom  I  would 
prefer  to  render  tribute  than  that  kind,  forceful,  and  generous 
woman  who  has  the  task  and  the  privilege  to  preside  over  a  ward 
Relief  Society. 
It  is  quite  interesting  to  note  the  inspiration  that  seems  to  be 
given  those  in  authority  in  the  selection  of  women  to  hold  this 
arduous  position.  Inspiration  it  certainly  has  to  be,  when  one 
knows  the  many  qualifications  and  requirements  the  office  de- 
mands. 
How  can  a  bishop  and  stake  officer  tell,  even  though  they 
may  have  intimate  acquaintance  with  the  woman  they  select,  that 
she  will  prove  equal  to  the  test ! 
A  successful  president  must  combine  many  graces,  besides 
the  devotion  of  much  time  and  energy.  Therefore,  one  would 
fancy  that  the  choice  would  fall  upon  an  educated,  capable  woman, 
so  well  provided  with  earthly  goods  that  she  could  afford  to  give 
time  and  means  and  thought  to  her  position.  On  the  contrary, 
the  majority  of  ward  Relief  Society  presidents — and  they  number 
nearly  a  thousand — are  the  busiest  women  in  the  community, 
known  perhaps  more  for  the  capable  way  they  are  serving  their 
large  families  than  anything  else.  And  why  not?  When  one 
finds  a  successful  Latter-day  Saint  mother,  immediately  may  one 
know  that  such  a  woman  has  ability  for  other  things,  and  will  so 
manage  her  time  that  she  can  perform  any  task  allotted  her. 
The  requirements  for  a  Relief  Society  president  combine 
many  virtues — executive  ability,  faith,  wisdom,  patience,  sincerity, 
and  most  of  all  charity,  in  its  very  broa'lest  sense.  Virtues  which 
adorn  anv  woman,  not  alone  in  the  home,  but  any  place  she  may 
h-ippen  to  be,  either  socially  or  officially.  King  Solomon  said, 
''Find  me  a  virtuous  woman  for  her  price  is  far  above  rubies." 
Among  our  Relief  Society  workers  such  women  are  numerous  and 
their  value  is  beyond  calculation.  Where  can  be  found  greater 
problems  than  come  before  the  social  service  worker?  How  to  uro- 
vide  for  the  needy:  how  to  comfort  the  sorrowful;  how  to  raise 
the  poor  in  heart:  how  to  serve  and  wait  upon  the  sick:  how  to 
enter  the  house  of  mourning  and  prepare  the  dead  for  burial,  at 
the  same  time  comfort  and  cheer  the  mourners:  how  to  seek  out 
the  poor,  and  the  sorrowful,  and  provide  for  their  wants;  the 
task,  too,  to  help  the  erring  one,  both  by  gentle  admonition  and  a

150  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
needed  lift  along  the. way.  These  are  a  few  of  the  problems  that 
come  in  the  way  of  the  ward  president  and  her  duty  is  to  solve 
them  all.  That  she  is  successful  in  her  mission  the  thousands 
whom  she  has  served  will  testify. 
Relief  Society  work,  like  all  good  thh>gs,  carries  with  it  a 
beautiful  blessing,  and  though  one  may  feel  sometimes  the  strain 
of  the  work,  at  the  same  time  one  cannot  help  but  recognize  the 
wonderful  help  the  work  gives  the  worker.  It  is  an  education  in 
the  biggest,  broadest  sense.  Not  only  development  of  mind,  and 
strength  of  purpose,  biU  that  finer,  richer  education  of  the  heart, 
which  broadens  the  powers  for  good,  which  brings  discernment. 
judgment  and  the  most  beautiful  graces  to  the  human  soul.  T 
have  seen  uncultivated,  uneducated  women  of  the  poorer,  hard- 
working class,  develop  all  these  graces  under  the  work  of  the 
Relief  Society  and  become  most  efficient  and  capable  ward  presi- 
dents. The  woman  may  make  the  office  splendid,  but  at  the 
same  time,  the  office  makes  the  woman  splendid.  While  we  give 
a  tribute  of  praise  and  love  to  those  great  women,  the  ward 
presidents  of  the  Relief  Society,  let  us  also  praise  our  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  opportunities  of  Relief  Society  work. 
NOTICE.  TO  AGENTS. 
Only  duly  appointed  agents  for  the  Relief  Society  Magazine 
are  entitled  to  the  agents'  discount  of  10%.  Agents  are  fur- 
uished  with  subscription  blanks  and  receipt  books  from  the  Mag- 
azine office.  They  will  please  deduct  discount  before  sending  in 
subscription  lists — otherwise  the  discount  will  not  be  allowed. 
We  are  sorry  to  announce  that  the  January  number  of  the 
Magazine  is  exhausted.  All  late  subscribers  will  necessarily  be- 
gin with  the  February  number. 
The  heavy  storms  have  so  greatly  interfered  with  traffic  that 
the  February  number  was  late  in  reaching  subscribers,  a  matter 
which  is  greatly  regretted  at  the  General  Office.

Notes  from  the  Field. 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  General  Secretary. 
CHRISTMAS  GIFTS  AND  CHEER. 
The  stakes  in  and  about  Salt  Lake  City  make  a  feature  of 
special  charity  work  at  Christmas  time.  Following  are  some 
details  of  their  labors : 
Pioneer  Stake. 
According  to  the  usual  custom,  the  different  wards  of  Pioneer 
stake  sent  out  a  large  number  of  Christmas  baskets,  besides  small 
presents  of  money,  soft  slippers,  handkerchiefs,  comforts,  etc.,  to 
the  aged.  There  were  284  baskets  sent  out,  ranging  in  value 
from  $3  to  $6  each.  The  Relief  Society  also  distributed  several 
tons  of  coal. 
Cottonzvood  Stake. 
In  the  Cottonwood  stake  $318.07  in  cash  and  produce  and 
300  pounds  of  sugar  were  distributed  on  Christmas  day  to  the 
poor.  Each  member  of  the  Stake  Board  donated  one  quilt  for 
distribution,  making  18  quilts  in  all. 
I  iberty  Stake. 
In  this  stake,  the  following  donations  were  given :  Liberty 
ward  sent  20  baskets,  value  $4  each ;  the  Eighth  ward,  six  baskets, 
value  $3  each,  and  also  $36  in  cash ;  LeGrande  ward,  46  bas- 
kets, value  $4  to  $5  each ;  Thirty-third  ward,  one  ton  of  coal  to 
each  widow  and  needy  family;  Ninth  ward,  12  families  were  each 
given  $1  in  cash;  Second  ward,  46  baskets.  In  the  Tenth  and 
Thirty-third  wards,  the  bishoprics  took  full  charge  of  the  charity 
work. 
Salt  Lake  Stake. 
The  Fourteenth  ward  distributed  27  baskets  containing  mer- 
chandise and  $1  in  cash ;  Fifteenth  ward  Relief  Society  assisted 
the  bishop  in  sending  out  36  baskets.  The  Relief  Society  do- 
nated the  following  articles  to  be  added  to  the  baskets:  3  quilts, 
30  aprons,  2  kimonas,  2  underskirts,  12  pairs  of  ladies'  hose,  6 
pairs  men's  socks,  4  union  suits,  1  pair  slippers.  3  rag  rugs  three 
yards  long,  and  $15  in  cash.  / 
In  the  Seventeenth  ward  $350  was  collected  by  the  Relief 
Society  in  cash  and  merchandise.     Sixty  baskets  were  sent  out

152  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
containing  meat,  potatoes,  sugar,  butter,  fruit,  and  canned  vege- 
tables. From  $1  to  $5  was  added  to  the  baskets,  according  to 
tlie  needs  of  the  families.  To  the  sick  and  aged,  a  plant  or  a 
hunch  of  cut  flowers  was  sent. 
The  bishop  of  the  Nineteenth  ward  took  charge  of  the  Christ- 
mas donations.  The  Relief  Society  prepared  a  hot  dinner,  and 
cnterained  about  twenty  of  the  needy  and  aged. 
Tn  the  Twenty-second  ward  24  baskets  containing  merchand 
ise  were  distributed.     Cash  was  collected  and  used  to  buy  coal 
which  was  sent  to  those  in  need.     Thirteen  baskets  were  distrih 
utcd,  each  containing  merchandise  and  $1.50  in  cash. 
The  Twenty-fourth  ward  M.  T.  A.  boy  scouts  assisted  the 
sisters  in  the  ward  to  distribute  30  baskets  containing  cash  and 
merchandise. 
In  the  Twenty^eighth  ward,  the  bishop  took  full  charge  of 
the  charity  work.  The  Relief  Society  sent  ten  old  ladies  $1  each. 
and  on  the  first  Tuesday  in  January,  they  entertained  their  ward 
teachers  and  the  old  folks. 
The  Twenty-ninth  ward  Relief  Society  sisters  assisted  the 
bishop  in  sending  out  16  baskets  of  merchandise;  $2  in  cash  was 
-cut  each  widow;  S48.50  in  all  were  distributed. 
The  Center  ward  distributed  $14.80  in  cash  and  merchandise, 
most  of  this  going  to  four  families. 
In  the  North  Point  ward  there  is  no  needy,  and  the  Relief 
Society  donated  $5  to  a  ward  entertainment  for  the  children. 
Ensign  Stake. 
The  Eleventh  ward  distributed  70  baskets  filled  with  gro- 
ceries which  consisted  of  sugar,  canned  peas,  tomatoes,  corn,  meat; 
etc.,  and  from  50  cents  to  $1  in  cash ;  $40  in  cash  was  sent  out 
in  this  ward. 
The  Twelfth-Thirteenth  ward  sent  out  68  boxes.  These 
boxes  each  contained  a  chicken,  potatoes,  groceries  of  all  kinds, 
including  one  can  of  cocoa  for  each  family  and  a  hag  of  candy. 
end  cash  from  $1.50  to  $2.50.  according  to  the  size  of  the  family : 
$50  in  cash  was  distributed  in  this  ward.  Money  was  collected 
for  the  groceries  and  they  were  purchased  wholesale  by  the 
bishop.  The  potatoes  were  brought  in  by  members  of  the  Relief 
Society,  each  one  bringing  three.  Tn  addition  to  this,  flour  and 
potatoes  were  given  to  many  other  families.  The  Ensign  ward 
collected  and  distributed  $27.46. 
In  the  Twenty-first  ward,  the  officers  of  the  Relief  Society 
visited  every  home  and  received  $221  in  donations.  They  sent 
baskets  to  forty-two  families,  a  sack  of  potatoes,  a  sack  of  apples

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD  153 
and  $1.50  to  $2  in  cash  to  each  of  them.  Thirteen  sacks  of  flour 
were  also  sent  out. 
In  the  Twentieth  ward,  forty-seven  baskets,  at  a  value  of 
from  $1.50  to  $2  each,  were  distributed.  One  of  the  residents  of 
the  ward  donated  $15,  with  which  to  buy  toys  for  poor  children. 
The  Twenty-seventh  ward  distributed  twelve  baskets  and  several 
tons  of  coal. 
In  the  Eighteenth  ward  the  bishopric  and  Relief  Society 
worked  tog-ether  in  collecting  and  distributing  charity  funds.  On 
Christmas  day,  $401.75  was  distributed  to  the  worthy  poor  and 
widows ;  $100  was  sent  to  the  missionaries,  making  a  total  dis- 
bursement for  Christmas  of  $501.75. 
Granite  Stake. 
The  Granite  stake  Relief  Society,  in  September  and  October, 
1916,  inaugurated  a  Food  Preparedness  Campaign,  when  Relief 
Society  teachers  visited  the  homes  of  the  people — both  Latter-day 
Saints  and  non-members — in  the  various  wards  of  the  stake,  and 
solicited  a  special  "free  will  donation,"  consisting  of  one  pound 
of  flour,  sugar,  rice,  beans,  peas,  etc.,  which  could  be  stored  away 
for  a  time  of  emergency  or  special  need  among  the  working  poor. 
On  October  27,  entertainments  were  given  in  the  ward  meeting 
houses,  in  the  afternoon  for  the  children,  who  paid  for -admission 
in  coal  and  potatoes,  and  in  the  evening  for  adults,  who  paid  ad- 
mission in  pounds,  if  they  so  desired.  The  movement  was  at- 
tended with  gratifying  success,  as  is  attested  by  the  following 
figures:  Collected  in  cash,  $680.86;  pounds,  6,l60y2  ;  bottled 
fruit,  91  quarts  ;  canned  goods,  426;  packages,  116;  coal,  12  sacks  ; 
potatoes,  8  sacks ;  soap,  36  bars. 
The  people,  generally,  entered  into  the  spirit  of  the  campaign 
wtih  such  manifest  enthusiasm  that  it  is  hoped  to  make  it  an 
annual  affair. 
President  Lorilla  L.  Home,  of  the  Granite  stake  Primary 
Association,  with  her  officers  and  the  workers  of  the  several 
wards,  pleasantly  surprised  the  Relief  Society  sisters  in  their 
various  January  work  and  business  meetings.  These  Primary 
workers  assisted  in  the  sewing,  and  afterwards  served  delicious 
refreshments.  In  one  of  the  wards  a  complete  layette  was  made 
for  an  expectant  mother. 
The  old  folks  of  the  County  Infirmary  were  given  the  cus- 
tomary musical  and  dramatic  treat  during  the  Christmas  holidays. 
Stake  Chorister  Lucy  M.  Green,  and  the  Relief  Society  choir,  paid 
them  a  visit  and  discoursed  sweet  music,  and  the  members  of  the 
Miller  ward  Relief  Society  presented  a  play  for  their  amusement 
and  pleasure.  Both  of  the  entertainments  were  greatly  enjoyed 
and  highly  appreciated.