[Vol1 | April 1914 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: LESSON IV.]
April—LITERATURE—Lesson IV.
(Thirty Minutes.)
Ten minutes talk on Current Events.
Note—Because of the great demand for the Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin, it has been impossible for the publishers of the edition we were using to supply book stores in sufficient numbers to fill our orders promptly. There was so much delay that another edition has been ordered from a second publishing house. Aside from the notes and explanations, the reading matter in the two books is identical. References to both books will be given in the lessons.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF BENJAMIN FRANKLIN.
Statement.
These literary lessons, as stated in the beginning, have two objects: First, to acquaint ourselves with the life of a great man, and second, to study his method of expressing himself, with the view of improving our own language. In reading and re-reading the "Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin," we are bound to be benefited in our own manner of expression.
The importance of speaking properly and well needs no argument. The man who can explain himself perfectly, usually commands what he wants, while, on the other hand, the man who lacks this power is defeated by his own disability. We often hear people say, "I know what I want to say, but I do not know how to say it." It is within the reach of all to study and to use good language—language that expresses exactly that which is felt; and while some have a natural aptitude in this direction, any person who sets out to improve his own speech may do so, so long as he has access to good books. Power in this direction once obtained, is his forever.
In reading over the chapters, let us pay special attention to the choice of words, and the formation of sentences. We shall find that the words are not large and uncommon, but are simple and well chosen, and that the sentences are so clear as to be understood by school children. If we will read them over and over we will unconsciously gather words and expressions that will in time become our own, and our speech will be thus greatly enriched. In chapter one, Franklin tells us exactly how he studied and trained himself in the art of expression.

LESSON IV.
Subject: Franklin beginning business for himself.
References: Extracts from chapters 4, 5 and 6 in Altemus edition, and from page 71 to 115 in Crowell edition.