[Vol16 | April 1929 | Sequence: 017a | Category: Article | Title: Pioneers | Author: Lois V. Hales]


Pioneers: WHEN WEST WAS WEST—OWEN WISTER By Lois V. Hales "When West Was West" is a recently published book of nine short stories written by the well known American writer Owen Wister.

Mr. Wister knew the west in all its glory.

Born of Quaker parentage in Philadelphia in 1860, he, like his beloved friend Theodore Roosevelt, came west in 1885 for his health.

He stayed for several months on a Wyoming ranch.

This was the only one of many visits to the west where he fished and hunted to his heart's content.

He came to know intimately the landscape, the soldiers, the cowboys, and the Indians.

He learned to love this country dearly, and felt that it was too little appreciated; so he began to write sketches and short stories about it.

Today he is one of the best known, best loved, and most read of the present-day American writers of the west.

"When West Was West" is a monument to the old West, a west which he knew when it was really west.

In theme the stories are very different, but Mr. Wister writes equally well of the varied phases of pioneer life.

To show the scope and variety of the book, as well as its bearing on pioneer life, we should like to speak especially about four of these stories.

"Bad Medicine," the opening story in the book, gives us a colorful picture of the Indian, who played so important a part in our pioneer life.

The story deals with a visit to Yellowstone Park in the early days of its history.

Against this background Mr. Wister portrays the Indian with his fears, his superstitions, and his reticence.

We feel the elemental quality of the red man.

"Did this descendant of wars and wildernesses know the centuries dividing us that his quietness mysteriously conveyed.

With his drooping-headed, saturnine animal, he seemed to share some intimate lore of nature that I and all white men were shut out from." As he casts himself into the crater we feel still more strongly how close to nature he is and how little we understand him.

"The Right Honorable the Strawberries" is the story of the son of an old English title, young, handsome, likeable, who came to the West and captured the heart of the upright cow-puncher Chalkeye.

In the relationship between the Englishman and the American we see the difference between the Old World and the New.

The fathomless reticence of the English coupled with the startling Western freedom of speech—freedom as to their incomes, their families, their gaieties—is deep beyond all American understanding.

How could Chalkeye, with his freedom where the Englishmen is silent, understand Strawberries.

How could he know "that the true aristocrat always is the best democrat, because he is at his ease with everybody, and makes them so with him." Yet, between the two, grew up a friendship which PIONEERS 205 prompted Chalkeye to give his life for Strawberries, and brought Strawberries back to Drybone long after all others had left it.

In Chalkeye we have one of Mr. Wister's best characterizations.

One day Rudyard Kipling and Owen Wister were returning by train from Washington after dining with their mutual friend Theodore Roosevelt.

They were talking "shop," and Wister told the story of a disaster that occurred at a certain military post as a result of the annoyance caused to a certain lively-minded captain by the length of a certain chaplain's hair.

An Apache, carefully rehearsed by the captain, played his part in the story.

Kipling found the story so good that he said it must be written and entitled "Absalom." Years later Mr. Wister wrote the story and it is included in this book under the title "Absalom and Moulting Pelican." Colonel Steptoe McDee, a Southern gentleman, is a commanding figure, strong, alert, and intelligent.

Brokenhearted over the outcome of the Civil War, he comes to the West and meets Randy, a typical Western boy.

The warm friendship between these two of such varying ages and traditions is one of the finest things Wister has portrayed.

Tragedy has always followed in the wake of the railroad.

"At the Sign of The Last Chance," the closing story in the book, tells of the tragedy wrought by the railroad to an old inn where the coaches changed horses or stopped for meals in the good old days.

Just a few old men playing a listless game was all Wister found on his last visit.

He thus describes it: "I had begun to see those beards long before they were gray; when no wire fence mutilated the freedom of the range; when fourteen mess-wagons would be at the spring round up; when cattle wandered and pastured, dotting the endless wilderness; when roping them brought the college graduate and the boy who had never learned to read, into a lusty equality of youth and skill; when songs rose by the camp-fire; and the dim form of the night herder leaned on his saddle horn as under the stars he circled slowly around the recumbent thousands; when two hundred miles stretched between all this and the whistle of the nearest locomotive.

"And all this was over.

It had begun to end a long while ago.

It had ebbed away slowly from these now playing their nightly game as they had once played it at flood-tide.

The turn of the tide had come even when the beards were still brown." To Wister, "the requiem of the brown and golden beards, their romance, their departed West, too good to live forever, was finished." All nine of the stories comprising this book are unusual.

The vivid characters, the spontaneous wit, and the excellent description that comes of personal observation make this book good and wholesome.

One feels the broadness and generous tolerance of the author and realizes "that when one lives out of doors and takes account of the sky and the clouds, and the quiet earth, one lives hard, it may he, but one lives true." 