[Vol53 | December 1966 | Page 908 | Fiction | Tell Me of Love— Chapter 6 Rosa | Lee Lloyd]
Tell Me of Love Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 6 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, who has been attending college in California, is called back to her home in Sydney, Australia, because her fiance Ron McLaren is lost in the bush. Julie's friend Betz Condon has accompanied her to Australia, and the girls go with members of the Ridgehaven family on an expedition to search for Ron. Also in the party are Aunt Isabelle, who had once promised to marry Dr. George; and Wally Ridgehaven, Julie's cousin, who has become interested in Betz. The women take over the housekeeping duties at the Ridgehaven station in the bush, and the men set out in search of Ron. @ Julie lay on the straw mattress in the bunk across from Betz, weeping silently into her pillow. Everything in her world was a threatening black cloud. 908 Knowing how Betz felt about Wally was almost more than she could bear. Grandfather and all the family would blame her for bringing Betz to Australia. Aunt Isabelle would be disturbed, and Julie wanted every happiness for her now that she had found Dr. George again. She looked so much improved; she had even eaten a fairly good dinner. Where is Ron? Her heart repeated over and over. The only answer always terrified her. In the daytime she was able to control her thoughts, but here in the darkness they tumbled relentlessly across her mind. Ron was out in that vast wilderness alone, maybe hungry or dying of thirst and exposure; fighting with dingos or poisonous snakes or— her breath sig'ied in fear—-maybe down in some old mine hole, try- ing to climb up, slipping down again, down, down, down! "Oh, no!" she cried out, frantically. ""No! No! No!" Betz sat up, calling to her: "Julie, listen, dear. Try not to think about it. It hurts too much. Let's say our prayer again. Remember Big Dan told us we must have prayerful faith in their success." "I know," Julie answered. "Oh, Betz, I pray every minute, all day, all night." Betz got out of bed and knelt beside her. "Julie,'"' she whispered. "You know something? You're tops in my book. I loye everything about you. I really want to be like you are, courageous and lovable and full of music. Don't give up, Julie. None of us could take it if you broke down. Wally said today...."" Her voice stopped suddenly. "Go on," Julie prodded her. "What did that redhead say about me? Tell me," she demanded. Betz wet her lips. "Well," she went on. 'He said you are really Grandfather Ridgehaven's very favorite. The apple of his eye. He holds you way up there on a pedestal, sort of a pattern for his grandchildren to follow." ""How—how real crazy!" Julie said, but a little warm feeling beat in her heart. ''Grandfather loves each of us just the same." Something bumped against the door, whimpering and pawing at it. "Casey Jones! Let him in, Betz. He's been gone ever since we met the plane. He can sleep on the foot of my bunk." Casey Jones would not lie down. He whirled and pulled at TELL ME OF LOVE Julie's bed covers. Then he growled and ran back to the door again, pawing against it. "It's the screeching cockatoos that make him act this way. Did you ever hear such a_ hideous racket?" Both girls went to the window. The big white-trunked gum tree was outlined in the moonlight. Its branches were swinging with the screeching cockatoos. "The Aborigines call them demented souls," Julie told Betz. "Sometimes they carry on this way for hours. Let's put wool in our ears and try to sleep. Tomorrow is a big day. Here, Casey, come up on my bed." He barked and growled, running to the door again. Then he came back looking up at Julie. "Let him out," Betz coaxed. "You put his dinner on the porch. Maybe he's hungry. He seems frantic to get out. Only he wants you to go with him." "The cockatoos upset him,' Julie said. ""Maybe a run in the yard will soothe him." Julie opened the door, and Casey Jones bolted out into the night, barking at the cockatoos. She leaned back against the wall hoping she had done the right thing. She didn't want anything to happen to Ron's dog. "Ta ta for now," Betz said, imitating Wally, as she climbed into her bunk. "Ta ta for now," Julie repeated. But she could not sleep. Casey Jones should be right here on the foot of her bed, safe from harm. She arose, stepped into her slippers, shouldered into her dressing gown, and went out into the night determined to bring him back with her.? 


 The cockatoos had _ stopped their wild screeching, the only sound was the faraway sighing of the wind through the bush. The moon was a bright crystal ball in the sky; its light brightened the house, chased out shadows from the yards and silvered the grayish shearing sheds. This place had been a part of her life, Julie thought. Grandfather thought each one of his family should come to one of his stations at least once a year, so they would appreciate the work and hardship that made _ the Ridgehaven money. He was so right, she thought. She couldn't be wasteful when she remembered how precious the smallest luxury was out here. A_ bright piece of ribbon would make Geena happy for days, and a bright plaid skirt was a valued possession, kept for special celebrations in the township. And water! Julie could never waste water. Not the tiniest drop! A chiming laugh came to her on the night breeze. She tiptoed toward the verandah. Dr. George and Aunt Isabelle were seated on the steps in the moonlight. Their heads were close together. They were making up for all those long, lost years. Julie could hardly breathe as she went back to her room. They would have so little time together, she thought. There was so much to be said and remembered. Before she closed the door, she whistled softly for Casey Jones, but he did not come to her. Where had he gone? She wondered with a worried frown. She lay back in her bunk wondering if she would ever sleep 910 peacefully again. Once, when she had been so excited about the closing day of school, she had told Grannie she could not sleep at night. Grannie had patted her head, answering in her whimsical way. "Then don't be afraid to stay awake. Listen to what the night has to tell you." Grannie must have had her problems, too, Julie thought. She drifted off into restless sleep, when a knock on the door brought her bouncing awake. She hurried to answer, so Betz would not be disturbed. Dr. George stood there smiling his big, warm smile. "Can we talk, Julie?"' he asked, in a low voice. She shut the door behind her and followed him outside to the verandah. "We won't disturb anyone out here," he said. "Now that those cockatoos have gone, we can hear each other." "Have you seen Casey Jones?" she questioned. "Say! That dog ran down the road barking at the cockatoos. Haven't seen a sign of him since. Dogs like to get out at night." "I wish he'd come back," she said, wistfully. "He's Ron's dog. Grandfather gave him to Ron on his fourteenth birthday." "T remember," Dr. George said. "IT remember so many things about the Ridgehavens, Julie. They have really been my family, too, ever since I was in the University." Neither spoke for a moment, and yet there were so many things to be said. She knew Dr. George had something important to tell her about Aunt Isabelle. He was leaving at dawn with Big Dan, Uncle Geoffrey, and Uncle John. He would want her to know Isabelle's condition. Her heart rebelled against it. She did not want him to tell her the cold, hard, medical facts. She wanted to hold on to hope and faith and all of life for her. And yet, she must know so she could help her. She had to face it. She shivered with cold. The night breeze, as always in the bush, had a misty chill as if the wind had gathered moisture from the faraway ocean or unknown billabongs and sprinkled the air at night. It offered compensation for the daytime heat. The moonlight came brightly through the branches of the big gum tree where the cockatoos had been. "Why do they screech that way?" she asked. "Nobody knows," he answered. "Maybe the Aborigines' are right." His face was uplifted, etched against the moonlight. Julie noticed his broad forehead, his heavy dark hair, graying at the temples, and his strong, generous mouth. He looks peaceful, she thought, incredulously. Even happy. What has happened to make him reconciled to all this? "Dr. George,' her voice faltered, but she went on determinedly. "Tell me—about Aunt Isabelle. She seems so much improved — almost herself again since she has been here with you. I couldn't understand why Grandfather had her come with us, but I believe I do now." Dr. George nodded. "Your grandfather is a very wise man, Julie. He has lived a long time and knows much about life. Sometimes it's difficult for you TELL ME OF LOVE young people to agree with his decisions, but he always has your happiness in mind. John Robert Ridgehaven is the kind of man who will admit his mistake, if he makes one." WULIE's dark brows worried together. "I think he has made one with Wally," she told him. 'Have you not noticed how he and Betz have found something special in each other?" "T noticed," he said, simply. "Who could help it? There is magic in the air between them." "Did Aunt Isabelle notice it?" she persisted.. "She did." I "Did it worry her?" Julie went on. "Was she angry because I had brought Betz from America?" "On the contrary,'"' Dr. George laughed. "She simply made the remark that Wally had met his match at last. She realizes that Wally is a fun-loving clown who hasn't made up his mind what he wants to do or be." "So is Betz," Julie said. "She wants every new thing that comes along. Now she wants to marry Wally, and he's engaged to Sue Ellen." Dr. George thought this over carefully. ""Well—that will work out, Julie. Don't let it worry you." "But it does, Dr. George!" Her voice rose tearfully. "I'm so disturbed. About everything. And everybody!" "IT know," he said. "That's understandable. We're all on edge, Julie. That's why I wanted to talk to you. Don't hesitate to tell me how you feel. It will help to let it out." "You know what Ron means 


 to me," she said, her voice breaking. "I have never loved anyone but him, never wanted anyone but him. I'll just die— if you don't bring him back to me. [ll just die, too." The smile faded from Dr. George's face. He straightened his shoulders, folding his arms across his chest. In a flash he was the sober, professional doctor again. "No, you won't die, Julie. People don't die merely because they want to. You are a Ridgehaven. They don't give up that easily." His eyes were very kind. "I hadn't planned to tell you this at this time, but maybe I should. It will give you hope and courage and something to cling to. Sometimes patients in Aunt Isabelle's condition have what we call remissions, or regressions, in medical terms. The disease simply fades away and the patient is well. There is no explanation for it. I have reason to believe this might be happening to Isabelle."' Julie could hardly breathe as she looked up at Dr. George. The bleak despair in her eyes disappeared. They were luminous with hope. "Oh, Dr. George!'' she whispered. "Thank you for telling me." "We must wait to know for certain,' he added cautiously. "Do not discuss it with her nor anyone else. We must watch her constantly. That is why I have been to the township and sent a telegram to Carolyn Bridges asking her to come here and take charge of Isabelle while I am away. Have Wally meet her plane at noon tomorrow." "I will, Dr. George. We'll all be happy to have Carolyn here. I met her on the jet coming over." "She gets around a lot. I just hope she is in Perth to receive the cablegram. Don't tell Isabelle anything to disturb her," he continued. "'See that she has good, nourishing food. Did you notice that she ate her dinner tonight?" "Oh, I did. Everybody did. She's been so thin—almost starving." Dr. George nodded. "She told me she was hungry for the first time in months. That is a good sign and one reason for my hope. She should have some fresh meat. Maybe you and Cleo can figure that out." "How would mound turkey be? You know, the wild ones that are plentiful in the bush?" "Red meat is better," he said. "But we can't be choosers out here. The sheep are forty miles away. Lamb or mutton stew would nourish her." '"'We'll have meat, Dr. George," Julie promised, "if I have to shoot a kangaroo. We can go out to the sheep in one of our jeeps. Miles don't mean a thing out here, Dr. George." "Quite right," he said. "Miles don't mean a thing if you're helping someone you love. Take care of her for me, Julie. And I will do everything in my power to bring Ron back to you." (To be continued) Opposite page: Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah, at Christmas 1965 912 Transparency by Hal Rumel West Boise Stake, Boise, Idaho Mary E. Zurcher, President >, I res Made From Christmas Cards Colorful pictures of beauty and significance can be made by combining appropriate motifs from Christmas cards into a montage for framing. Such subjects as the journey of the Magi, the field of shepherds, the star above Bethlehem, or "the Babe lying in a manger" can be arranged through combining selected suitable elements from landscapes, figures, and designs which adorn your favorite cards. The making of the montage (or even a large mural) can be a family project. First, the subject should be selected, and the size of the picture determined. The separate motifs, carefully cut, are glued on a piece of cardboard, attached only at the bottom of the motif, leaving the top free, to give a three-dimensional effect. Start at the skyline, blending in the colors and patterns as you move downward on the cardboard, taking care to place the "point of interest" cutouts effectively in the design. For happy and illuminating "paper work," let the children cut and paste and make their very own pictures. 914 heep the Cards Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Suggestions by Helen M. Peterson The Christmas bells, the prancing, reindeer, the holly wreaths, and the poinsettia flowers that adorn our Christmas cards are much too beautiful to be discarded. The week after Christmas can be the beginning of a colorful handicraft activity in preparation for next holiday season. Collect the cards and sort them, saving the most decorative for making cutouts. For the following purposes, and for many others which will likely come to mind, the separate motifs can be cut directly from the Christmas cards: 1. Save for decorating Christmas packages. 2. Cut into sizes and designs appropriate for name tags for gifts, making a hole in each for the insertion of ribbon or cord for attaching to the parcels. 3. Use for making a mosaic under glass or cellophane for a child's dressing table, or paste on the top of doll furniture. Some of the motifs can be used for "stand-up" or '"hanging-down"' decorative features. For these purposes, cut the motifs from the cards in squares or triangles, or whatever shape seems to accommodate the motifs. Then paste the cut-outs on a sheet of gold or silver or iridescent foil, and cut the details through both card and foil. Uses for the motifs, thus reenforced, may be: 1. For hanging on the Christmas tree (by making a hole and inserting a hook or piece of string or ribbon). 2. Use as placecards for Christmas dinner or holiday parties (by pasting or gluing a narrow piece of cardboard on the back of the motif to make a standup support). 3. Decorate the mantel or use in arranging a table centerpiece (using a standup support). 915 Tin-[, all Chr ist tndas "Gan Francisco Stake, San Francisco, California ia) Collect fifteen 1% inch x 314 inch diameter cans. Remove tops and bottoms. Be sure the cans are coated on the inside with the goldcolored lining.. Cover the outside of each can with green felt (or any color desired) and, using an ice pick or punch, puncture one hole in each can along the seam. With heavy thread stitch through felt into hole in can and suspend ornament of your desire (bells, cones, or colored balls). Use a board 4 x 114 x 141% inches long for base, covered in the same color as the cans. Glue five cans to 916 Tree Gertrude and Gail Terry this as the start of a pyramid. Stack the remainder. Place the cans so the ornaments hang straight down and secure into position by gluing with strong glue on points of contact.. Trim the outside edges of the pyramid with some type of decorative braid (preferably metallic gold to match the lining of the cans).. For base of tree (tree trunk) take a 4 oz. Can and fill-with sand. Cover with brown felt or any color desired and attach with strong glue to baseboard of the pyramid.. Upon completion, glue a top ornament to the apex can of the pyramid. Lillian L, Collett, President of Danish Cookery A Herilage Dorothy J. Roberts May we share the dishes of a Danish heritage with you—for all to enjoy? Food is a link between the generations—steaming and _— savory, associated with childhood and _ the pleasant memories of beloved families, cousins, aunts, uncles, and grandparents. From mother to daughter, and mother to daughter again, the recipes have been passed, "even to the third and fourth generations." It is heartwarming to learn of great-granddaughters still serving the dumpling soup their great-grandmother cooked for a Transparencies by the author. Model Joy Ann Christensen Danish Queen. I remember my own mother's deft hands forming the little "suinea''-shaped dumplings with the precision of a machine. And what Dane can hear the words "sweet-soup," "'redmush," or "'frikadellar" without experiencing a flood of poignant memories? And then there was the "Sister Cake," so named because it was served to the visiting Relief Society sisters. Let us collect old recipes, cherish our memories, and keep alive our family ties and cultural heritage by occasionally serving the delectable dishes of the past and reviving old tales and old times. As our "living links" leave us, let them not be forgotten. Let their lives of strength, integrity, and sacrifice be ever with us in our gatherings.

(Continued on page 930) 917 Winter Wonderland in Fullerton Stake (California ) Lillie T. Garrett, President A "Winter Wonderland" brought Christmas to the Third Ward Relief Society of Fullerton Stake for an early visit in November 1965. Each of twelve attractive booths was designed to look like a little house—a decorative unit of Santa's Village. The supervisor of each booth was dressed to represent the theme of her display. Included were Candy Palace, Ye Olde Bake Shop, Boutique Shop, Magicland Toys, House Beautiful, the Gift Box, The Doll House, the Clothes Cart, the Pinafore House, Stardust House, Bag of Bargains, and Ye Old Money Taker. The pictures reproduced in Christmas colors here are representative of the other outstanding displays.. The Candy Palace - The wide variety of candy featured fudge, divinity, pralines, penuche, candied popcorn, gift-wrapped popcorn, popcorn trees, and a _ bright and beautiful candy house. Christmas and Thanksgiving centerpieces reflected an artistic glow upon the display booth. Chairman Iva Dell Anderson ~ vw {wre "Beauiitul Ot AD A mE House Beautiful - Here in a scene of exquisite design were featured resin grapes, feather flowers, dried flow- -ers, oil paintings, decorated horns of plenty, gold-leafed figurines, felt pictures, crepe paper flowers, Thanksgiving and Christmas center- * pieces, glass grape cluster pictures, and a still life and I fruit picture. Chairman, Carol Whipple Officers of Fullerton Third Ward Relief Society who planned and conducted the bazaar: Lucille Adams, President; Darlene Thornburg, Counselor, who served as chairman of the bazaar; Marilyn Petersen, homemaking leader. The Doll House - This was +:--~ the elegant home of beautiful dolls and everyday dolls and wild and tame stuffed animals. There were "Tammy" and "Barbie" — doll sets and baby dolls with their dainty wardrobes; "Raggedy Ann" and, "Raggedy Andy"; playmate dolls and pixie dolls. The menagerie was inhabited by camels, lions, tigers, ele- _ phants, rabbits, leopards,, and Teddy bears. Tote bags, made especially for children, and small purses and bags for dolls represented "accessories" for very small ladies. Chairman, Gloria Harris Stardust House - The house was decorated with stars & and gold stardust pouring from a gold dipper. The star canopy above the house? Was festooned with hanging jewels, and bells and snowflakes added a shining luster to the scene. On display were felt skirts trimmed with velvet ribbon and jewels; jeweled stockings to hang at the fireplace; decorated candle balls; a gold ° centerpiece, and a metal wreath; candy cane ponies, little-girl corsages, crowns for the Wise Men, Christmas calendars, jeweled trees; a laughing Santa Claus, satin balls ornately encrusted with brilliant gems; and colorful gift tags and gift wrappings. Chairman, Sandra Farrell et Beaded Packages 920 Joy N. Hulme Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts It is as quick as pop! Pop! Pop! To make pretty packages with plain colored wrapping paper, plastic flowers, and pop beads. Besides being attractive, these wrappings are especially sturdy for mailing or using again. More often than not, the plastic flowers are too bulky to be used whole, so they are taken apart and the pieces used separately. This should be kept in mind when the flowers are being purchased. Also, it is desirable that these pieces will fit comparatively flat against the package. It is a good idea to have pop beads in a variety of colors so they may be used to accent or blend with the shades of the flowers. It is best, but not necessary, to cover and decorate the lid of the box separately from the bottom. Pretty gift boxes can be used without covering. The color of the BEADED PACKAGES spots on the lid where the pop beads will go. 921 A narrative of Christmas through the ages—"The Perfect Gift"—was presented by El Paso Stake Relief Society for Christmas 1965. Organ music, a chorus, narration, and colorful slides illustrated the prophecies foretelling the birth of the Christ, his coming to the earth in mortality, his message, and his sacred mission. The appearance of the Christ to the ancient inhabitants of the Western Hemisphere was dramatically presented, with words from The Book of Mormon repeating the glory that came upon the Promised Land. Through song and background music, the restoration of the gospel was portrayed, and the observance of Christmas through the years, with the applied significance of "The Perfect Gift," was detailed in tableau and portrait arrangements. The picture at the top of the page represents the illumined journey of the Wise Men, and the lower picture illustrates the packaged gifts for children of the present generation. Lavinia B. Jackson is president of El Paso Stake Relief Society. The dramatization was written and directed by Barbara Johnson and Aleen Rowley. The Home llecaraied y ith a Christmas Welcome Homes in Salt Lake City, Utah Transparencies by J. M. Heslop A Christmas tree for children, decorated with popcorn chains, cookies, and Santa Claus. Vernon and Victoria Cooley in the Vernon Cooley home. 924 I ~~ <@, » a * & 5. «Ae «hs «A» Ve <9" 4 >< 4 ae ay 7 ' aq ra A iiiigtmas =" come at the J. A. Hale home Roses, tassels, and crystal prisms make a radiant tree. Lydia Kalt waiting for Christmas in the Ronald N. Kalt home. Santa Claus, red tassels, and snowdrifts on a Christmas tree, Hotel Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah A brilliant and glowing Christmas tree above the city lights, Mervyn S. Bennion home. A tree adorned in red and gold, Z. C. M. I. Aisle of Christmas Trees, Salt Lake City, Utah Christmas comes to the Mervyn S. Bennion home— Michael, seated, admires the decorated stockings made by his mother. "The Wise and Foolish Virgins' by William Blake (1775-1827), English (Metropolitan Museum, New York City, Rogers Fund, 1914) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6— "Virtue Nourishes the Soul'' (for April 1967) Floyd E. Breinholt, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University William Blake's watercolor of ""The Wise and Foolish Virgins" visually portrays in beautifully rhythmic lines and forms the message of Matthew 25:1-9. "Then shall the Kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. And five of them were wise, anl five were foolish. They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them: but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out. But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves." Virtue prepares one so that when the trump is sounded he is ready. As Thoreau said, '""Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is open." William Blake, the great English visionary poet and artist, like most artists, made it possible for us to see his inner thoughts and convictions. These did not coincide with the thinking of other leaders of his time, and so he was not accepted and his fame has come in more reecnt years. All great art is an expression of the human spirit. It is a record of the artist's experience with life and his environment. Blake was a devout Christian and claims that his paintings and poetry are results of inspiration, almost as if they were gifts forced upon him. He said that the fine arts are essentially religious, and that they interpret the world and life in language of the soul. He implies that they are windows into the transcendental, invisible world, invisible to mortal sight, but presenting wider prospects, a vision of beauty in closest correspondence with the aspirations and efforts of mankind. Most of Blake's paintings and prints have a poetic, unreal quality in the rhythmic movement of the forms which he drew almost intuitively. He used no models for his figures, and invented his own devices which he used over and over as symbols. 


 A Heritage of Danish Cookery (continued from page 917) The recipes which follow have been modified and changed by different families and by modern conveniences and supplies. DUMPLING SOUP Combine beef broth and chicken broth, cooked separately, from 2 good-sized pieces of brisket and a shin or knuckle bone, added to broth from one hen or rooster, each flavored with one onion and a bunch of celery leaves, parsley stems, and green onion tops tied into a tight bundle with thread and dropped into the soup the last two hours, and removed with the meat and bones. Broth should be skimmed of nearly all the floating fat. Add, and simmer until tender: 114 qts. Raw, sliced carrots 1 sliced parsnip, raw 1/4 tsp. Ginger. Add the dumplings to the simmering soup. DUMPLINGS Put into a heavy fry pan: 2 slices bread, white or wheat, half-andhalf 2 c. Milk, poured over bread 14, tsp. Nutmeg, and mash bread well into milk. Add: 1 cube (14 lb.) butter Bring all to boil, stirring well Add all at once: 1144 cup flour, and stir well, and continue folding and stirring until it is done, and forms a ball. Remove into a bowl and cool. Add: 2 eggs, one at a time, stirring well. Y4, tsp. Salt. Form into little dumplings, round in the center, with pointed ends; do this with a teaspoon by pressing the dough against the side of the bowl, being sure to dip the spoon into the hot soup for each dumpling. Drop them into the simmering soup and cook till they rise to the top. Add, just before serving: finely cut parsley sprinkled over the soup. 930 GREEN KALE SOUP (Gronkaal) 5 or 6 cups stock from 2 ham hocks boiled with an onion and skimmed of fat. Add: 1 heaping tablespoon of rice and cook 14 hour. Add: 2 diced raw carrots 1 diced raw potato Simmer till tender. Add: 2 cups finely chopped kale 34, cup finely chopped onion tops or chives Boil 5 minutes Add: 14 cup finely chopped parsley. Remove from heat. Add: 4 cup cream or canned milk, and serve. FRIKADELLER 2 slices bread, white or wheat, soaked in 14 cup water. Stir well. Add: 1/4, teaspoon nutmeg 2 tablespoons chopped onion or green onion tops 1% teaspoon allspice 14 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon salt 2 rounded tablespoons flour 1 egg 114 lb. Ground chuck (the 14 lb. May be pork sausage). Form into small, round cakes and fry in 2 tablespoons butter, lightly till barely done. SISTER CAKE 14 cup milk; or canned milk diluted with equal amount of water 114 teaspoon cardamom, preferably pounded from the whole spice Scald the mixture and add: 1 cube butter (14 lb.) 14 cup sugar 34, teaspoon salt Stir and cool and add: I dry yeast cake soaked in 4% cup water. Stir. Add: 1 cup flour 2 eggs beaten one at a time 2 cups flour. Beat until smooth. Add: 1% cup currants Let rise to double, punch down twice. Put into 2 loaf pans. Brush tops with beaten egg white. Sprinkle with 14 cup sugar and 1% cup slivered almonds or raisins. Let rise to double. Bake at 375 degrees for about l% hour. SWEET SOUP 1 cup dried prunes 34, cup raisins 14, cup currants Soak a day and a night in the refrigerator in a bottle with water to cover well. Pour into a pan. Add: 1 package frozen raspberries 1 tablespoon minute tapicoa 114 cups water A HERITAGE OF DANISH COOKERY 2 or 3 tablespoons sugar. Let stand till berries thaw. Bring to a boil and boil 1 minute or 2. Drop a stick of cinnamon into the mixture and let stand for ten minutes. Stir. Remove the cinnamon stick, wash, and dry to use again. Serve either warm or boil and boil one or two minutes. RED MUSH 1 pk. Frozen rhubarb 4 Santa Rosa deep red plums, cut from stones and stewed until tender in water to cover, with 3 tablespoons sugar added. Add rhubarb, and stir well or blend in blender. There should be about 244 cups of sauce. Add 2 tablespoons sugar and 44 cup minute tapioca. Let stand a few minutes. Then bring to a boil, stirring, and boil 2 minutes. Remove and cool. Serve with cream. Most any combination of fruits or juices may be used for this Red Mush.