[Vol53 | December 1966 | Page 890 | Special Feature | The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1966 Hulda | P. Young]
dent of the new Adelaide Stake in Australia. Inspiring and significant counsel and direction were given to the stake and mission leaders assembled by Elder Thomas S. Monson of the Council of Twelve, Chairman of the Adult Correlation Committee, and by Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve who is an Adviser to Relief Society. On Wednesday afternoon, a capacity crowd filled the Tabernacle and overflowed into the Assembly Hall for the 2 o'clock session for Relief Society members and the general public. The 890 principal speaker at this session was President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency and long-time Adviser to Relief Society. President Spafford and her counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, also addressed this session. Sister Mary R. Young, represented 

s, music leaders, Magazine representatives, visiting teacher message leaders, homemaking leaders, and_ spiritual living, social relations, and cultural refinement stake and mission leaders. In each of these sessions valuable specific help was given regarding the responsibilities of the respective callings through impressive dramatizations, verbal instruction, demonstrations, and other types of teaching presentations. The concluding session of the conference was held in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, at which Elder Gordon B.

Hinckley of the Council of the Twelve THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE delivered a moving address, followed by a delightful presentation, 'Speaking of Malinda," written by Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board. The concluding talk of the conference was by Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of Twelve, also an Adviser to Relief Society. His powerful and heartwarming message together with the other inspired messages of the conference, implanted in the hearts of the sisters a feeling of gratitude for the blessings and privileges that are theirs, and a greater resolve to use their time and talents even more productively in discharging their leadership responsibilities, in strengthening their own homes, and in helping, more effectively, in the work of building the kingdom. Immediately following the last session of the conference, Relief Society members and the general public were invited to remain in the Tabernacle and attend a special brief service commemorating the completion of the Relief Society Centennial Memorial, which had been initiated a quarter of a century ago under the leadership of General Relief Society President Amy Brown Lyman and her Board. President Spafford related the history and significance of the memorial, a campanile housing the so-called Nauvoo Temple Bell, to honor the founding of Relief. Society and in recognition of the honored position of women in the gospel plan. President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency spoke briefly. Then, with the tones of the historic bell resounding over Temple Square, those assembled retired to the site of the bell tower between the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall in a colorful autumnal setting where the combined Singing Mothers Chorus from the Northwest rendered a selection, and a closing prayer was offered by Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve and Chairman of the Temple Square Committee. (The Report and Official Instructions and the talks given by the General Presidency were carried in the November issue of the Relief Society Magazine. - President Joseph Fielding Smith's talk in this issue, and the addresses by Elders Harold B. Lee, Marion G. Romney, Gordon B. Hinckley, and Thomas S. Monson, and Sister Mary R. Young will appear in early issues in 1967.)