[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 866 | Lesson | Social Science — Our Priesthood Heritage Alberta | H. Christensen]
SOCIAL SCIENCE—Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 2 (No. 14 in series)—Our Priesthood Heritage (Taken and adapted from lessons 2-3-4 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Quorum Lessons—1966) For Third Meeting, February 1966 Objective: For Relief Society members to understand the significance of Priesthood holders in history, with special keys and callings, and its special meaning for women. INTRODUCTION What is the Priesthood? "It is the rule and government of God, whether on earth, or in the heaven; and it is the only legitimate power, the only authority that is acknowledged by Him to rule and regulate the affairs of His kingdom" (Journal of Discourses, [:224). "It is nothing more nor less than the power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately; not assuming that authority, not borrowing it from generations that are dead and gone, but authority that has been given in this day in which we live by ministering angels and_ spirits from above, direct from the presence of Almighty God" (SMITH, JOSEPH F., Gospel Doctrine (Fifth Edition), Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1939, pp. 139-140). 866 THE GOSPEL IS ETERNAL The gospel is eternal, or is from eternity to eternity, and we should never lose sight of the fact that the period of time in which we live does not exist in isolation, but is an integral part of eternity. The gospel has a comprehensive past as well as an all-encompassing future. We are a part of something great and marvelous. This world was organized by the power of God for the sake of his spirit children. Even from the creation, Adam held the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood. ADAM FIRST TO RECEIVE THE PRIESTHOOD The Prophet Joseph Smith declared: "The Priesthood was first given to Adam; he obtained the First Presidency, and held the keys of it from generation to generation. He obtained it in the Creation, before the world was formed, as in Genesis 1:26, 27, 28. He had dominion given him over every living creature. He is Michael the Archangel, spoken of in the Scriptures. Then to Noah, who is Gabriel; he stands next in authority to Adam in the Priesthood; he was called of God to this office, and was the father of all living in this day, and to him was given the dominion. These men held keys first on earth, and then in_ heaven" (JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, Compiler; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith (Second Edition), Salt Lake City, Deseret News Press, 1940, page 157). Throughout the ages God has given mortals the opportunity to participate in and enjoy his divine influence. He has raised up many to be blessed with special keys and callings in the Holy Priesthood. OTHERS WHO HELD KEYS Adam, or Michael, held the keys of the Priesthood from generation to generation. Noah, or Gabriel, also held the keys of the Priesthood. To Elijah he ''committed the keys of the power of turning the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, that the whole earth may not be smitten with a curse" (D&C 27:9). To Peter, James, and John he committed the keys of the ministry during the dispensation in which they were mortals. (D&C 27:12. See also John 15:16.) To Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery he, the Lord, also said: Unto whom I have committed the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last times; and for the fulness of times, in the which I will gather together in one all LESSON DEPARTMENT things, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth (D&C 27:13). COVENANTS WITH JEHOVAH In addition to these and others who have held special keys, there have been some who have had special callings. Certainly Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob with their remarkable covenants with Jehovah are appropriate examples. Perhaps the plainest statement of the covenant is_ that recorded in the book of Abraham. It reads: My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations; And I will bless them through thy name; for as many as receive this Gospel shall be called after thy name, and shall be accounted thy seed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as their father; And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee; and in thee (that is, in thy Priesthood) and in thy seed (that is, thy Priesthood), for I give unto thee a promise that this right shall continue in thee, and in thy seed after thee (that is to say, the literal seed, or the seed of the body) shall all the families of the earth be blessed, even with the blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal (Abraham 2:8-11). From the creation, through past generations, unto our own day, the Lord has provided and preserved the keys of the Holy Priesthood that his' children might enjoy the rights, privileges, and blessings associated therewith. Likewise, through special 


 callings and covenants, such as those with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the Lord has made provision for the continued guidance and blessing of his spirit children. It is through these keys, covenants, powers, and blessings that the gospel is made available to us. [ Activity: Have the class members identify the role in the Priesthood heritage of: Adam, Noah, Elijah, Abraham, Jacob, John the Baptist, Peter, James, and John. } THE LORD TAKES THE HIGHER PRIESTHOOD FROM ISRAEL From the days of Adam through the ministry of Moses, there was a continuous lineage of those who held the Melchizedek Priesthood. (D&C 84:6-16.) In the dispensation of Moses "the Lord confirmed a priesthood also upon Aaron and _ his _ seed, throughout all their generations, which priesthood also continueth and abideth forever with the priesthood which is after the holiest order of God"? (D&C 84: 18). The Lord has revealed in our day that Moses taught the children of Israel plainly and diligently that which it was necessary for them to know and do that they might be sanctified and behold the face of God. But they hardened their hearts and could not endure his presence; therefore, the Lord in his wrath, for his anger was kindled against them, swore that they should not enter into his rest while in the wilderness, which rest is the fulness of his glory. Therefore, he took Moses out of their midst, and the Holy Priesthood also; And the lesser priesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the key of 868 the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel; Which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism, and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments, which the Lord in his wrath caused to continue with the house of Aaron among the children of Israel until John (D&C 84: 24-27). Once when the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked if the Melchizedek Priesthood was taken away with Moses, he responded by saying: All Priesthood is Melchizedek, but there are different portions or degrees of it. That portion which brought Moses to speak with God face to face was taken away; but that. Which brought the ministry of angels remained. All the prophets had the Melchizedek Priesthood and _ were ordained by God himself (JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Salt Lake City, Deseret News Press, 1938, pp. 180-181). Thus we see that because of the perversity of Israel, the Melchizedek Priesthood (or the higher portion of it), which had continued among men _ from Adam until the dispensation of Moses, was taken from Israel with Moses. After that time, although prophets were raised up from time to time who were given: the Melchizedek Priesthood, as were Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Elijah, generally the people of Israel were without the Melchizedek Priesthood and were under the jurisdiction of the Aaronic Priesthood. That is, that portion of the Priesthood which remained was Aaronic. Aaron had been given the keys of that lesser Priesthood, and his sons were called to minister with him in the priest's office. After the Lord chose Aaron and his sons to minister to him as priests, he relieved the firstborn males of the various tribes of Israel of their Priesthood duties and replaced them with the males of the tribe of Levi. This the new organization consisted of Moses, who held the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood; Aaron, who held the keys of the lesser Priesthood, and Aaron's sons who were priests with him; and the Levites who were priests of a lower order. As long as Aaron presided in the lesser Priesthood, he functioned under the direction of Moses, who held the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood. But when Eleazar, Aaron's oldest living son, received the keys of the lesser Priesthood, and Moses was taken out of Israel, he (Eleazar) became God's mouthpiece to Israel. The priests of Aaron and the Levites ministered in their respective callings without serious conflict until the death of Solomon. But with the division of Israel into the Northern Kingdom (or Israel) and the Southern Kingdom (or Judah), and with King Jereboam's establishing an idolatrous worship and making "priests of the lowest of the people, which were not of the sons of Levi," a critical situation arose. (See I Kings 12:31.) The authorized priests, no longer being permitted to function in the Northern Kingdom, made their way back into the kingdom of Judah, and with that exodus '"'the history of the Lesser Priesthood in the kingdom of Israel was ended. Never again, so far as we know, did the tribe of Levi function as a group LESSON DEPARTMENT in the Aaronic Priesthood among the ten tribes" (Paumer, LEE A., Aaronic Priesthood Through the Centuries, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1964, page 106). PRIESTHOOD REMAINS WITH JUDAH In time the ten tribes were taken into captivity and eventually lost. But the Priesthood remained in force in the kingdom of Judah. However, through many difficulties, there was a legitimate succession in the Priesthood. JOHN THE BAPTIST AND THE PRIESTHOOD After Onias III (175 B. C.), there were legitimate priests who continued to function, but the office of high priest was sold and bought and otherwise polluted. It was not until the Lord raised up John the Baptist that there was another rightful presiding priest in the Aaronic order in Israel. John's birth was an event of signal importance and it, like that of the Lord, was announced by angelic visitation. His father was Zacharias, a faithful priest of Aaron, for only they were permitted to burn incense at the altar (JOSEPHUS, FLAVIUS: Antiquities of the Jews; Book IX, Ch. 10:4), and his mother was Elizabeth, one ''of the daughters of Aaron" (Luke 1:5). The Lord, in our own day, speaking of John, has said, he was "filled with the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb." For he was baptized while he was yet in his childhood, and was ordained by the angel of God at the time he was eight days old unto this power, to overthrow the kingdom of 


 the Jews, and to make straight the way of the Lord before the face of his people, to prepare them for the coming of the Lord, in whose hand is given all power (D&C 84:28). It is significant to recall that when John was born, the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood were not among the Jews, and that also the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood had been forfeited. John's role as the priest who held the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood was different from that of his predecessors in that office. For 1,500 years they had ministered at the altar in the sanctuary with burnt offerings and sacrifices. John was concerned with heralding the coming of the Lord, calling all men to repentance and performing the initiatory ordinances of the gospel, and preparing men to receive the power of the Holy Ghost from him who was_ mightier than he. DISCIPLES HELD PRIESTHOOD Prior to the time the Lord gave his Sermon on the Mount, and several months prior to their ordination as apostles, some of his disciples had been ordained priests or to some office in the Melchizedek Priesthood, for they were authorized to perform baptisms. (See J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., Our Lord of the Gospels, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1957, pp. 43, 51; and J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, Salt Lake City, Deseret - Book Company, 1950, page 358.) Later, twelve of the disciples were chosen and_ ordained apostles. In a meeting with the Twelve at Caesarea Philippi, the Lord promised the keys of the 870 kingdom of heaven would be given. A week later, when he took Peter, James, and John with him up onto a high mountain, he was transfigured before them, and Moses and Elijah (Elias in the New Testament record) appeared unto them. The Prophet Joseph Smith declares that it was on that occasion that the Lord, Moses, and Elijah bestowed the keys of the Priesthood upon Peter, James, and John. (See Matthew 16:13-20; 17:1-13.) THE PRIESTHOOD IS RESTORED Latter-day Saints generally are familiar with the circumstances surrounding the restoration of the Priesthood. They know that in the spring of 1820, God the Eternal Father and Jesus Christ the Son of God—the Redeemer of man—appeared to Joseph Smith, Jr., in the woods near Palmyra, New York. They gave him initial instructions in preparation for his modern prophetic calling. In September of 1823, and periodically at least through June of 1829, Moroni, a resurrected being, visited Joseph Smith. Even as John the Baptist received the word of God in the wilderness under angelic guidance, so was Joseph Smith taught by heavenly teachers. JOHN THE BAPTIST COMES When 'the period of_ initial preparation was completed, and the Lord was ready for his youthful prophet to act with authority in the name of the Lord, he sent John the Baptist to him with the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood. It was on May 15, 1829, that John came. John the Baptist indicated "that he acted under the direction of Peter, James, and John, who held the keys of the Priesthood of Melchizedek" (Joseph Smith B72). Thus, John, who was especially raised up by God to hold the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood to prepare the way for Christ, restored the Aaronic Priesthood. THE HIGHER PRIESTHOOD RESTORED Shortly after the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood, Joseph and Oliver received the Melchizedek Priesthood from Peter, James, and John. On April 3, 1836, four great visions were given to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple. First the Lord Jesus Christ appeared and accepted the temple as his house. Then the prophets Moses, Elias, and Elijah appeared and committed the keys they held on earth. Of the mission of Elijah, President Joseph Fielding Smith has written: Some members of the Church have been confused in thinking that Elijah came with the keys of baptism for the dead or of salvation for the dead. Elijah's keys were greater than that. They were the keys of sealing, and those keys of sealing pertain to the living and embrace the dead who are willing to repent (BrRucE R. McCONKIE, Compiler, Doctrines of Salvation: Sermons and Writings of Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City, Bookcraft, 1956, Vol. III, page 130). In an epistle written by the Prophet Joseph Smith, he names many of those from the ancient world who visited him on var: ous occasions and then records: LESSON DEPARTMENT And the voice of Michael, the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels, from Michael or Adam down to the present time, all declaring their dispensations, their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little, giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope! (D&C 128:21). (See also D&C 132: 45-47.) Thus all of the keys of. The Holy Priesthood from previous dispensations were restored to the earth at the beginning of this, the last dispensation of the Gospel. CONCLUSION One may not hold any keys of the Priesthood, but he or she should have full appreciation of the fact that had the Lord not preserved those keys through the dispensations and restored the Priesthood and its keys in our time, he or she, could not share in the rights, privileges, and blessings that he or she does. (We should ever be mindful that the women and children of the Church share fully in the blessings of the Priesthood.) Let the class discuss what specific blessings women and children receive through the Priesthood. FOR HOME DOING Re-read this lesson or, if available, read lessons 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual for 1966, in order to appreciate more fully our Priesthood heritage.