MAGAZINE Volume 52 Number 11 November 1965 Lessons for February T Wak Remeber Asotiw Linnie F. Robinson When winter comes I will Transparency by Camera Clix Frontispiece: § Lost River Mountains, Idaho, Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: § Dick Scopes INustrations: § Mary Scopes My September Magazine came yesterday, and it is full of lovely and inspiring features. I appreciated reading "A Prophet in These Latter Days" (Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay), and also the editorial ''Belonging,' by Counselor Marianne Sharp. Annie L. Holyoak Burley, Idaho I was just reading the June magazine and came across the article on Sister McKay.! Enjoyed it very much. I find the Magazine to be most helpful to me in my work here. The sisters in our branches here do not have a great deal of contact with ''The World-Wide Sisterhood." Showing the sisters the articles on womanhood, the family, and food really enthuses them. We are really thankful for a Magazine that helps so much with members and investigators. Elder Stephen M. Winn Argentine Mission I was so happy to see the article ''Let's Speak Correctly"' in the August issue of the Magazine (by Myrtle E. Henderson). There is another word I wish had been included and that is patriarchal. I have heard many supposedly well-educated people mispronounce all, or most vall, of the words mentioned in the article. I think this type of information is wonderful to have in the Magazine. We need to speak correctly. Helen Rentz Drain, Oregon The Magazine was 4 gift from Sister Eloise Ward in Salt Lake City, Utah, who was a good missionary in Hong Kong the last two years. I thank her very much for jetting me read such a good Magazine. I enjoyed it very much and am longing for it every month. Mrs. Lily N. Chong Hong Kong Southern Far East Mission 802 C2 re an Sy The cover of the September Magazine is very beautiful, and the stories and articles all inspirational. I am waiting for all the issues before starting to read "Ring: Around Her Heart," by Shirley Thulin—too impatient to wait a whole month to see what happens. I have done this with the last few serials and enjoy them so much. Relief Society and the Magazine are two of my special loves. May God continue to guide you in serving the women of the Church. Helen B. Leslie Provo, Utah As a novice literature class leader, I want to express My gratitude for the inspired lessons which constitute our literature course at this time. I feel that they are timely, essential, broadening, refining, and truly a privilege to conduct. Relief Society is the leavening in my life, and I truly have used it and the Magazine as testimony builders. Myrna Tanner Gibson Mesa, Arizona I wish to convey my deep gratitude for our lovely Magazine. I am a missionary in the Spanish-American Mission, and feel it hard to express the Magazine's value as a tool in proselyting. The dear Spanish-speaking sisters love to listen as we translate the stories into their native tongue, and they progress spiritually, aS well as materially, from the lessons and suggestions. It is a happy day in our lives when the Magazine comes. Elaine Mott Laredo, Texas I have taken the Magazine for fifty years and have received wonderful inspiration from the lessons, stories, and poems. They have helped in guiding my children. Emmaline Winsor McBride Pima, Arizona en me