[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 841 | Home | Knitting Needles and Crochet Hooks Bring Happiness to Many | ]
Knitting Needles and Crochet Hooks Bring Happiness to Many 841 B42 Shirley Thulin Chapter 7 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest Hospital, spends a week end with her roommate Kathy at the Kirk family farm and becomes attached to Joey, the youngest of the family. Later, Joey is critically injured in a farm accident, and all the staff at Hillcrest are greatly concerned over his condition. @ Joan and Doctor Desmond hurried to the emergency ward. The voice that summoned the doctor a few moments before sounded calm and impersonal, but they both knew the "calling Doctor Desmond" could mean Joey had taken a turn for the worse. Neither of them spoke the words that were uppermost in their thoughts, it was not necessary to speak. Joan felt what he was thinking, and by the time they reached the first floor, she also felt that there was a close bond between them. When they reached Joey's room, the nurses were working frantically with the child. Joan's first thoughts were for Kathy. "Kathy, come out with me," Joan begged. "No, Joan. I can't leave." 'Where are your folks?" "They made them go, but I can't, please." "Kathy, you've got to forget you're a nurse. You are family." "Please go, Kathy,' Doctor Desmond said, and then hurried to Joey's bed. "Your folks need you." "Uncle Jay's with them." "You can't do any good here. Your mother needs you." Joan felt Kathy relax. "You're right," she said, "Mom needs me," and she left. In a few minutes it was all over. Little Joey was dead. Doc- tor Desmond's shoulders were bent. He didn't say anything to Joan as he brushed past to go for Kathy. Joan felt that she was living a nightmare from the past. I let it happen again, she thought. In spite of my careful planning and reasoning, I have become involved again. I loved little Joey and now he's gone. She went to her room. Hours passed and Joan lay there on her bed, waiting. She didn't know what she was waiting for. Was she expecting Kathy to come? Was she wishing Doctor Desmond would call, or Doctor Niles? She had never felt so unwanted or unneeded. Then she remembered that Tom would be waiting for her. It was a little past two and she had told him she would take him to therapy. She got up and went to his room. "All ready?" she asked him. "I'm not going," he told her. "Of course you are." She pushed the wheel chair closer to his bed. "It's no use, Miss Morgan. I know my legs won't get any better. There isn't one bit of feeling in them." "But they can fit you with braces. They can teach you so many things... How to get into and out of a wheel chair by yourself. How to dress and undress by yourself...." Tom was silent. It seemed, that he wasn't even listening to her. "Little Joey died, didn't he?" he finally asked. "Yes, yes, Tom, he did." "I knew, because when I asked about him, Doctor Desmond acted funny." ""How long ago was Doctor Desmond here?'