[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 825 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

And rated the performance as the best since Nellie Melba, also an Australian singer, performed the role in 1902. Richard Bonynge, husband of Joan Sutherland, directed the opera which was presented in '"'Her Majesty's Theatre"' in Melbourne. Blanche Wolf Knopf, of Viennese descent, is president of the Alfred A. Knopf Publishing Company, Incorporated, which this year is celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of its founding by her husband Alfred A. Knopf. Through the years they have worked side by side, priding themselves on the beauty of their books, as well as the contents. Among others, they have attracted many great European writers. Queen Juliana of the Netherlands has announced the engagement of her daughter Crown Princess Beatrix to Claus von Amsberg, a West German diplomat. The wedding will probably be held in the spring of 1966. Miss Marion Gridley, eminent journalist of Chicago, Illinois, and head of Publicity and Publications of the Chicago University Medical School, is an expert in public relations. She is a third-generation writer, and is an expert on Abraham Lincoln. She has won many national awards and two from Rome and Germany. She is also editor and publisher of Amerindian, a source magazine among. University and scientific circles on the American Indian. Mrs. Sharon Sites, thirty-four, of Los Angeles, California, sailed alone in a small boat from Marina del Rey to Hawaii. She embarked on June 12 and arrived in Hawaii on July 21st, after a journey of storm, danger, and oppressive loneliness, having weathered, among other hazards, a terrific six-day storm, which several times changed her course of direction. Mrs. Yvette Vaucher, a thirty-five year old Geneva, Switzerland, housewife, became the first woman to scale the dangerous north wall of the 14,700 foot atterhorn, in July. The face of the north wall is almost perpendicular, and experienced alpinists had considered the ascent not possible for a woman to accomplish.