[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 860 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message — "Abide Ye in the Liberty . . ." Christine | H. Robinson]
One can understand the emphasis put upon the need for charity by Paul in view of The Book of VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 69—''Abide Ye in the Liberty Wherewith Ye Are Made Free'' (D&C 88:86). For First Meeting, February 1966 Objective: To describe the nature of liberty and its dependence upon the laws of righteousness. @ The complete passage in the Doctrine and Covenants from which the above statement is taken, reads ''Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes." The emphasis in this inspired scripture is on the unalterable fact that righteous living blesses the human soul with freedom. On the other hand, the entanglement of sin brings bondage. All of life's experiences prove the truthfulness of these statements. Sin, as the apostle John pointed out, "'is the transgression of the law" (I John 3:4). Laws are established to ensure man's freedom. This is true both in secular and spiritual laws. In a free country police forces are established so that men may move freely in their communities without fear of molestation or danger to their lives or personal 860 property. Likewise, God's laws are established to guarantee our freedom. The Ten Commandments were given not as restraints or impositions, but rather as guides to full and purposeful living. Man cannot break God's commandments nor the laws of nature; rather, if he attempts to violate them, he breaks himself against them and destroys his personal freedom. The Lord has said, "I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free' (D&C 98:8). If we really desire to maintain our God-given freedom under his divine plan of free agency, we must free ourselves from the pitfalls of sin and from the transgression of the law. Let us keep from being led into temptation. Let us seek those experiences that will help us develop the most worthwhile qualities of our characters and personalities. Let us seek wholesome companionships and environments and search for the good and beautiful in life. In all of our actions, let us scrupulously avoid compromising with truth and honesty. We should strive to think pure, wholesome thoughts for, "as he thinketh in his heart, so is he" (Proverbs 23:7). Safety and freedom lie in resisting temptation and avoiding even the appearance of evil and in living and applying those virtues as exemplified in the life of our Savior, Jesus Christ. This excerpt from Alexander Pope's "Essay on Man" beautifully expresses the dangers of associating with sin: Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen; LESSON DEPARTMENT Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace.: If we abide in the liberty of righteous living, though we be shackled in chains, still we will be free. True freedom comes from within, for our spirits are free from the burdens of a guilty conscience. If we know we are in the right, we have the rich fruits of freedom, among which are tranquility and peace of mind. These are among the freedoms which the Savior's life taught and exemplified. He said, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27).