[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 847 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

March 19, 1965 Front row, (first four sisters) left to right: Leonora Bascom, violinist; Melba P. Vance, President, San Diego South Stake Relief Society; Wynefred B. Trentman, accompanist; LaVada L. Davis, chorister. Sister Vance reports: "This chorus of sixty-five voices did an outstanding job of presenting a program of folk songs and sacred songs for the enjoyment of a large and appreciative audience. Guest presentations included a male soloist, a violin soloist, and a guitarist who played the accompaniment for one of the numbers. A special narration was given by President George R. Bascom, a member of the stake presidency. Refreshments and a social followed the concert. We received many wonderful comments from the members of the stake and their friends who attended. We love and appreciate these sisters for their service. Many hours of practice went into the preparation of this concert. As the stake chorus is made up of the ward Singing Mothers choruses we have had the pleasure of hearing from these ward groups at our leadership meetings. They have also furnished the music for sacrament meetings when invited to do so by their bishops." Woodruff Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present '"'A Night of Music' May 14, 1965 Standing in front of the pulpit, at the left: Gayle Argyle, stake chorister; at the right: Gail Satterthwaite, stake organist. Donna M. Groll, President, Woodruff Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Woodruff Stake presented the first Singing Mothers concert ever to be given in the Stake. There were nine out of the eleven wards participating, with the singers from one ward traveling 125 miles to sing. Each ward prepared two special songs, and then 144 Singing Mothers combined to sing 'The Heavens Were Opened,' 'He That Hath Clean Hands,' and 'Song of Home.' Everyone present thrilled to the beautiful music. We felt the evening to be a real success and hope to make the concert an annual affair." Edmonton Stake (Canada) ''Coming Out'' Social April 30, 1965 Standing in front, left to right: Lori and Si Peterson. Back row, left to right: June Wall, wearing a homemade Klondyke dress; Jean Jones; Bonnie Burnham; Barbara Burnham; Faye Pitcher. Marie C. Burnham, President, Edmonton Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Societies of Edmonton Stake combined to present a 'Coming Out' social. Contributions from every ward and branch made up the displays of handicrafts which circled the cultural hall. There were over five hundred Latter-day Saint sisters, which represents over fifty per cent of the Latterday Saint women of Edmonton Stake., "The evening's program included 'Literature Highlights' from the Wetaskwin Branch; a home sewing fashion show from the Edmonton wards (representing fashions sewed under the direction and sponsorship of Relief Society); a skit by the Red Deer Ward; and music by the Singing Mothers. The film 'The Awakening' added the final touch to the evening. Light: refresKments were served, and copies of The Relief Society Magazine were available, so that those who were not familiar with the Magazine could become acquainted with it. We feel that the social stimulated interest in Relief Society and was very successful." 


 Samoan Mission Relief Society Board Holds District Annual Conventions and Monthly Leadership Meetings Front row, seated, left to right: Mua Aiono, Education Counselor; Sisilia Hunt, President; Vaelaa Utai, Work Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Eleva Roberts; Faleupolu Manuo; Kaleta Scott; Dawn C. Hanks, former supervisor, Samoan Mission Relief Society; Alatana Soli; Fetalaiga Nonu. Sister Hanks reports: "For well over two years, under local leadership, the members of the mission board have held regular district annual conventions and monthly leadership meetings. With over 900 members of Relief Society in the Samoan Mission. Leadership training is the major emphasis of the mission board. Each of eighty-six branches has a Relief Society branch conference once a year, visited by board members. Each of ten districts has an annual convention. During 1964 a special feature of this convention was the presentation by board members of 'Truths to Live By' dramatizing the vitality of visiting teaching. This year they are following, as closely as possible, the stake convention outline. Every month these sisters travel many miles by bus on rough roads or by boat on stormy seas, staying overnight, and often walking part way to attend district Relief Society leadership meetings. Four of the sisters in the picture have taken temple excursion trips and have been to New Zealand to do their temple work since they have been serving as members of the board." Ardis Price is the new supervisor of the Samoan Mission Relief Society. B52