Published monthly byRelief Society General Board Association. 
Editorial and Business Office:

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_11_10_Fict_Frost_Moss.txt) ===
rated the performance as the best since Nellie Melba, also an Australian singer, performed the role in 1902. Richard Bonynge, husband of Joan Sutherland, directed the opera which was presented in '"'Her Majesty's Theatre"' in Melbourne. Blanche Wolf Knopf, of Viennese descent, is president of the Alfred A. Knopf Publishing Company, Incorporated, which this year is celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of its founding by her husband Alfred A. Knopf. Through the years they have worked side by side, priding themselves on the beauty of their books, as well as the contents. Among others, they have attracted many great European writers. Queen Juliana of the Netherlands has announced the engagement of her daughter Crown Princess Beatrix to Claus von Amsberg, a West German diplomat. The wedding will probably be held in the spring of 1966. Miss Marion Gridley, eminent journalist of Chicago, Illinois, and head of Publicity and Publications of the Chicago University Medical School, is an expert in public relations. She is a third-generation writer, and is an expert on Abraham Lincoln. She has won many national awards and two from Rome and Germany. She is also editor and publisher of Amerindian, a source magazine among. University and scientific circles on the American Indian. Mrs. Sharon Sites, thirty-four, of Los Angeles, California, sailed alone in a small boat from Marina del Rey to Hawaii. She embarked on June 12 and arrived in Hawaii on July 21st, after a journey of storm, danger, and oppressive loneliness, having weathered, among other hazards, a terrific six-day storm, which several times changed her course of direction. Mrs. Yvette Vaucher, a thirty-five year old Geneva, Switzerland, housewife, became the first woman to scale the dangerous north wall of the 14,700 foot atterhorn, in July. The face of the north wall is almost perpendicular, and experienced alpinists had considered the ascent not possible for a woman to accomplish.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_11_20_The Home_Fruit_Harmer.txt) ===
Measure flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt; sift over fruit, blend well. Beat eggs, add vanilla, blend into nut-fruit mixture, spoon into loaf pan, spread evenly. Bake at 300° 134 hr. To 2 hrs., until firm on top. This makes one 9x5x3 loaf cake. Keeps well in refrigerator. It makes a very special gift. LIGHT FRUIT CAKE 14 c. Flour 1 c. Shortening 1 pkg. Fruit mix (about 1 Ib.) 14, c. Sugar 14, Ib. Candied cherries 14, c. Honey 14 Ib. Dates 5 beaten eggs 3 ozs. Candied pineapple 114 c. Flour 4 ozs. Raisins 1 tsp. Salt 14 c. Walnuts 1 tsp. Baking powder 14 c. Pecans 14 tsp. Nutmeg 14 c. Orange juice 14, tsp. Cloves Mix nuts and fruit in large pan with 14 cup flour. Cream shortening and sugar, add honey and eggs. Mix dry ingredients, add alternately with orange juice. Pour batter over nut and fruit mix and blend well. Bake at 250° three hours and 15 minutes. GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE 1 square butter (1/4 Ib.) 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Sugar ' 34, c. Milk 1 box graham crackers 3 egg yolks (30 halves crushed) 3 egg whites 34 ¢. Pecans Cream sugar and butter, mix with other ingredients. Beat egg whites stiff and fold in. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes.

=== OVERLAP TRIM (from V52_11_33_Poem_Truth_McAllister.txt) ===
Diminuendo Linda Clarke November is a sadness. Her crushed leaves can only whisper. Her labors are basketed away And her rewards are carried In December's arms. 875 November Celestia J. Taylor November—and the day draws quickly to its close. The sun, whose warming rays through summer months we eagerly absorb From early dawn until the last faint evening glows, Now passes all too quickly before earth's turning orb. The wind is chill; its blasts have long since blown the leaves from shrub and tree. All out-of-doors is clothed in sombre hue in readiness for winter soon to be. The fruits are picked; the golden grain is cut and stored away. Within our homes the hearth is lit—a welcome sight when comes the close of day. Reluctantly we bid the summer months goodbye, and almost dread what winter soon may bring; But, hope eternal in our hearts, cold winter soon will pass and come the welcome spring. ROSE PARADE TOURS LDS MESSAGES IN SONG yiauSan\Diego By Ora Pate Stewart via San Francisco "TO & Child! Solo - ser-----ssessonen 50 (Suitable for so many occasions) Dec. 26 to Jan. 2 Words and music by O. P. S.