[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 864 | Lesson | Work Meeting — The "Picking-Up" Technique Winnifred | C. Jardine]
WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Winnifred C. Jardine The "Picking-Up" Technique For Second Meeting, February 1966 Objective: To discuss the tremendous import of the state of the home on the happiness of the family. W 'Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion" (D&C 132:8). Therein lies a pattern for Latter-day Saint homes, for happiness does dwell where order reigns and first things are first. Of all the schemes and plans used by homemakers to keep a house in order, none exceeds in importance the habit of "picking up." Talk to any efficient homemaker who seems to have time to spare at the end of the day, and, almost without exception, you will find that either at the beginning of the day or else the last thing at night, she will spend time picking up, just picking: up and putting away. Nothing is more discouraging or depressing to a homemaker or to her family than "clutter." It is exhausting to look at. It is defeating to contemplate. And nothing else one might do seems to be of consequence while the disorder remains. Learning to put things away may be difficult for some who are deep in the habit of not doing so. But it is worth the time and effort it requires to learn. For some it may take several weeks of con- 864 certed effort and concentration, but the results are magic. If children have been taught to put away toys and hang up their clothing, mother's work will be easier. First thing in the morning, after you are dressed for the day's work, and the family has left, give yourself thirty minutes for "picking up." Set the alarm clock, if you like, and race against it. Start in the kitchen and pick up the dishes and stack them by the sink (no other work now; just picking up), put chairs, table linens, food away, put away bills tucked under the radio, clean off the clutter on the window sill above the sink. When you are through in the kitchen, take a quick look and see how tidy it is—even though dishes remain to be done and floor to be swept or wiped up. Now, move on to the living room. Put away toys, shoes, dishes, books, pencils, anything that is out of place. Be sure to put the things in their right place. Do not move them from one room to another nor tuck them away in some other spot for further consideration later. Make a decision right now. If some articles belong upstairs, place them together and save your energy by taking them up in one trip. Discard old newspapers. Now to the bathroom, then the bedrooms, then to other rooms. Perhaps the clock has buzzed, and you have had to give yourself another fifteen minutes, or half hour, or even an hour. It doesn't matter. Stay with it until the job of picking up is completed. Once you have finished picking up, then go back and do the dishes, wipe floors, dust, vacuum, or whatever your schedule requires. But now that work will fly along. Another important pick-up time is an hour or so before dinner, just a while before father comes home. Make it a rule every day that all the things that are out of place in the house or yard be gathered up and returned to their place. Once the house is orderly, it is surprising how quickly the care of the house will take on order, too. Having everything in its place will save hours of ''looking for something"; it will help each member of the family to be much more independent, because he will not have to ask mother where everything is; it will eliminate the source of a great deal of frustration to mother, especially, who always seems at her worst when the house is untidy. Finally, it will inspire orderliness in other things. With this background, it ls much easier to teach children to assume their share of responsibility. Specific assignments should be made during family LESSON DEPARTMENT council, making sure each family member understands — exactly what is expected of him and that he knows how to do it; then he must be held accountable for finishing that job according to the standards previously set. By being thus taught in a home that reflects order, the children will learn quickly to take pride in the responsibility they are assuming, and thus will be well prepared for missions, for marriage, and for life. "I know of no place other than home," wrote President David O. McKay, ''where true happiness can be found in this life." And the Savior gave us the key to it when he said, 'Mine house is a house of order" (D&C 132:8). TO DISCUSS 1. At what age should a child be taught to pick up his toys? 2. What are some means of getting children to assist with the "pickup" technique and also to assume the responsibility of putting away their own belongings? 3. What do you do to motivate teenagers to keep their rooms neat? TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. Failure of small children to "pick up" toys is often traced to lack of storage space and to lack of follow through on the part of the homemaker. Survey facilities in your home for the storage of children's toys. Are they located § and arranged conveniently for children? If not, study and plan how you can improve and extend storage for these items. 2. A visit to a school kindergarten or a nursery may prove profitable relative to young children and the availability of items which they use each day. Make notes on the methods and means used to place objects at a level for the child to help himself. Decide on the ideas which are feasible for your own home.