[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 854 | Lesson | Theology — Great Truths; the School of the Prophets Roy | W. Doxey]
[Theology — Great Truths; the School of the Prophets Roy W. Doxey]

It was indicated also in last month's lesson that all useful knowledge should be _ sought after, but it remains true that the knowledge that brings exaltation comes by revelation. Elder John A. Widtsoe said: There are of course many kinds of knowledge; some of lesser, some of higher value. When Joseph Smith said that man cannot be saved in ignorance [D&C 131:6], he meant naturally ignorance of the laws which altogether lead to salvation. Such knowledge is of the highest value. It should be sought after first. Then other kinds of knowledge may be added to support and amplify the more direct knowledge of spiritual law... (Evidences and Reconciliations 3:71). "BY STUDY AND ALSO BY FAITH" In the obtaining of the knowledge that saves here and in the hereafter, effort and faith must be used. The trusting and, believing soul, who, in his humility, seeks the Lord's will through the scriptures and the _ living prophets, finds his reward. The doubter, lacking teachableness and submissiveness, finds himself receiving the lesser portion of revealed truth. Alma gave these ideas in a way that impresses one with the strength of his conviction: And therefore, he that will harden his heart, the same receiveth the lesser portion of the word; and he that will not harden his heart, to him is given the greater portion of the word, until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God until he know them in full (Alma 12:10). How shall we receive knowledge by faith? Elder B. H. Roberts has given us an insight into this tremendous thought in these words: Knowledge by faith! What a thought—knowledge by faith! But let no one suppose that knowledge by faith is to be obtained by an easy road or method. It will demand effort and strenuous life and the exaltation of life itself to obtain knowledge by faith.. You perhaps remember in our Word of Wisdom, that it is said if the saints will observe that Word of Wisdom, and keep the commandments of God, that they shall have access to hidden treasures of knowledge by reason of faith, Knowledge by faith requires exalted living.... But it is no lazy man's task—this getting knowledge by faith. It requires the bending of the whole soul, the calling up of the depths of the human mind, and linking them with God—the right connection must be formed. Then comes knowledge by faith (Discourses of B. H. Roberts, pp. 25-26). SERIOUSNESS OF PURPOSE There is nothing in this life that requires more serious study than to learn the purpose of existence and then to determine how that purpose can be accomLESSON DEPARTMENT plished. In order that the Lord's servants might be prepared to undertake their positions as: missionaries to testify and warn the world, it was necessary that a house be prepared where they might study, pray, fast, and grow in faith. (D&C 88:119.) Later, the people were reprimanded for not following the counsel to build the Kirtland Temple which served this purpose. (Ibid., 95: 11-17.) Light speeches, wicked doings, light-mindedness, and all loud laughter arising out of boisterous conduct should not be permitted when men came together to be enlightened by the Spirit. '(Ibid., 88:121; Lesson 67, Relief Society Magazine, Sept. 1965.) The following advice, based upon this passage, was given by President Joseph F. Smith:... The Lord has called upon us to be a sober-minded people, not given to much laughter, frivolity and lightmindedness, but to consider thoughtfully and thoroughly the things of his kingdom that we may be prepared in all things to understand the glorious truths of the gospel, and be prepared for blessings to come. Let me read a verse from the Doctrine and Covenants. This is the command of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints. "Remember the great and_ last promise which I have made unto you. Cast away your idle thoughts and your excess of laughter far from you." And then again, in the same section, I have read from Section 88:69; I now read from verse 121: 'Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride and lightmindedness and from all your wicked doings." This is the word of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints. I believe that it is necessary for the Saints to have amusement, but it must be of the proper kind. I do not believe the Lord intends and desires that we should pull a long face and look sanc- 


 timonious and hypocritical. I think he expects us to be happy and of a cheerful countenance, but he does not expect of us the indulgence in boisterous and unseemly conduct and the seeking after the vain and _ foolish things which amuse and entertain the world. He has commanded us to the contrary for our own good and eternal welfare (Conference Report, October 1916, page 70). CEASE TO BE COVETOUS The last of the Ten Commandments concerns' covetousness. Covetousness is to long inordinately for something that is another's. (Exodus 20:17.) Richard L. Evans, of the Council of the Twelve, has pointed out that all of the Ten Commandments are inter-related, and the last one—''thou shalt not covet''—is related to the others in this way: He who covets the mere material "things" of life may' have "other" gods before him, and may "bow down before them," in thought and in spirit, if not in physical fact. He who covets may become coarse and careless in other things also, such as taking "the name of the Lord God in vain." He who covets may desecrate the Sabbath day to get gain. He who covets may fail to sustain his father and his mother in their need. Some who have coveted have killed to get gain. Many who have coveted a "neighbour's wife" have committed the grievous sin of adultery. He who covets is more likely to steal (or to swindle or embezzle or engage in sharp. Practices). He who covets may bear false witness to get gain (The Ten Commandments Today, page 142). There is another phase of covetousness implied in the same passage from which this discussion is taken; namely, that one should not be stingy with his knowledge of the gospel. "Learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires." Those who have the ability and the information to enlighten the lives of others should bring forth the words of salvation to their fellow men. As members of the Church we should bear our testimonies— "impart one to another as the gospel requires. The words of eternal life are to be spoken appropriately, however, and without giving offense. OTHER TRUTHS Counsel is given the elders to cease from idleness, uncleanliness, finding fault with one another; sleeping longer than is needful. And, then, as if to climax a series of great truths with one truth that, if lived, would comprehend all others—love—the Lord revealed: And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace. Pray always, that ye may not faint, until I come. Behold, and lo, I will come quickly, and receive you unto myself. Amen (D&C 88:125-126). As said elsewhere in this lesson, it is only through what Jesus has done for us that we may receive joy. Unbounded instead of misery. "Clothe yourselves with the bond of charity." Charity is the pure love of Christ. (Moroni 7:47.) Without this love, no man can inherit the kingdom of heaven. (Ether 12: 34; 2 Nephi 26:30.)