[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 804 | Special Feature | The Blessings of Experience Belle | S. Spafford]
unsolicited manuipts. 803 The Blessings of Experience President Belle S. Spafford 804 _ ~ * [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] @ Church history records many accounts of the trials and tribulations that beset the path of the Prophet Joseph Smith—he who was chosen of the Lord to open this dispensation. No account, perhaps, reveals more graphically the personal hardship endured by the Prophet than the account of his incarceration in the Liberty Jail, where indignities to his refined and sensitive nature were heaped upon him. Out of the midst of his tribulation he called upon God in passionate earnestness: Oh God! Where art Thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth Thy hiding place? How long shall Thy hand be stayed, and Thine eye... Behold from the eternal heavens, the wrongs of Thy people, and of Thy servants, and Thy ear be penetrated with their cries O Lord Stretch forth Thy hand... Let Thine heart be softened, and Thy bowels moved with compassion towards us. And God answered the cries of the Prophet and said: My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; and then if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils by land or by sea; if thou art accused with all manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters; and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring... If thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee if fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good (DHC III, page 291 ff). This leads us to ask, "What really is this thing which the Lord called experience, and what are the values to be found therein, not alone for the Prophet but for each of our Father's children?" Experience, I believe, is the actual living through of an event or events; it is personally undergoing enjoyment or suffering which directly affects one's feelings, one's judgment, and one's character. The dictionary says, "Experience is the sum total of the conscious events which compose an_ individual life." Experience has been referred to as "Life's greatest teacher, one's sure source of knowledge."' A gifted writer, Donald Culross Peattie, says that life is an adventure in experience and "as one's head is silvered o'er with age, his variable experiences make him sage." Another writer has said, that a strong and well-constituted man digests his experiences (deeds and misdeeds all included) just as he digests his meats, even when he has some tough morsels to chew and swallow, and from these well-digested morsels comes nourishment by which his character is formed.

Latter-day Saints know that earth life is a proving ground for the Father's children; that exTHE BLESSINGS OF EXPERIENCE periences, both pleasant and difficult, come to all; that each will be tested by the experiences of his life, and his character and accomplishments will be measured by the manner in which he meets the testing trials. The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 136:31, tells us, "My people must be tried in all things that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion; and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom." I recall being authorized several years ago by the First Presidency, as is the usual custom, to interview a sister relative to her call to become a member of the General Board. She was an intelligent and talented woman, devoted to the work of the Church and to the work of Relief Society. Her quick mind readily grasped the importance of the call and what, in general, would be expected of her as a board member and as a leader of Latter-day Saint women. She was reluctant to accept the call since, she said, she felt she had not had experiences in life which would make her sufficiently understanding of the problems and needs of the sisters or wise in her counsels to them. She said her life had been practically devoid of trial or hardship, and she feared her lack of kinship of experience with most Relief Society sisters would keep them from drawing lovingly to her. This she could not bear. Then, she said this, which has remained with me through the years, "Insofar as experiences which test and develop one are concerned, my life has been quite impoverished." 


 This beautiful woman who, at that moment, felt her life had been impoverished was_ the daughter of one of our most prominent and financially successful Church leaders. She had long enjoyed the prestige as well as the other advantages of belonging to such a family. Her husband, too, held high office in the Church and was professionally and financially successful. She had a beautiful home and a lovely family of bright children. She, herself, was personally attractive, healthy in mind and body, gifted far beyond the average woman. Yet she felt unqualified to accept a wonderful Church calling because of the ease of her life experiences. I suggested that she delay decision for a few days, that she talk the matter over with her husband and her father. The next morning she returned to the office and humbly accepted the call. She said her father had told her not to worry about her lack of hard and testing life experiences. She would not be denied these, nor would any of our Father's children. He had quoted to her the teachings of the Lord to Abraham wherein he said they would make an earth whereon the spirits God had created might dwell, and he would prove them herewith to see if they would do all things whatsoever the Lord their God should command them. She said her father had told her that the way of trial was ordained of God, even for his most favored sons and daughters. It was a means of development and purification, a means whereby man would be proved in earth life. To some persons, trial came early in life; 806 with others, it was withheld until 'later years, but in due time it came to all. Furthermore, her father had indicated to her that acceptance of the call would bring a strength that would sustain her in adversity when it came. In time, life did bring to this sister, in rapid succession, trial, hardship, sorrow, disappointment, even physical suffering. She proved herself capable of rallying the forces which enabled her to meet each experience with patience, faith, and fortitude, devoid of bitterness or a spirit of rebellion. And there emerged from these experiences a woman of rare spiritual strength, a compassionate and _ understanding woman, a woman wise in counsel, an example to the women of the Church of one's power to rise above adversity, a loving and beloved Relief Society leader, a soul refined. Truly, it is not what comes to us by way of experience but how we meet the difficulty that counts. In meeting the adversities of life one's greatest strength is a firm and abiding testimony of the gospel, a knowledge of God's great plan of life and salvation. This knowledge enables one to determine the true values of life and directs him in the pursuit of that which is of eternal worth. Life's denials, hardships, tribulations, small or great, are then viewed in true perspective, and one is lifted above them and sustained in going forward. Testimony comes through effort: a study of the words and will of the Lord as given us by his prophets; it comes' through prayer; it comes through mingling with the saints; through activity within the Church; through obedience to God's commandments. Strength to meet adversity comes through seeking counsel of the Lord as contained in the holy scriptures. Counsel and the comforting power of the Lord are always available through this source. True, the scriptures speak to us as a collective body—his Church, but they speak also to us as individuals, if we will but let them. True, we must be on familiar terms with them, having full faith, applying the divine wisdom to our individual problems and circumstances. To one in sorrow do they not say, 'Blessed are they that mourn for they shall be comforted''? To one engulfed with fear over the perplexities of the times they say, "Fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail" (D&C 6:34). To one who must make a troublesome and far-reaching decision is not this wise counsel given: "You must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right"? (D&C 9:8). Wise, indeed, is the woman who fortifies herself to meet the vicissitudes of life through a knowledge of the scriptures. Inspired guidance and_increased strength are available to us through prayer. The Lord mercifully invites us to lay our burdens at his feet. In Alma (37: 37) we are admonished, '"'Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings, THE BLESSINGS OF EXPERIENCE and he will direct thee for good." These are not idle words spoken by man. They are the words of the Lord to his beloved children —to you and to me. As we review our lives and those of others about us, we become aware that, generally speaking, there is a fair balance between the pleasant and difficult experiences of life; that with breadth of experience lives are enriched. We know that the more difficult experiences make us more understanding of others and more compassionate towards them. We recognize that through self-mastery in rising above the trials of life, character is developed and refined. We know that in none of the tribulations of life do we stand alone. Always the Lord is near to comfort, guide, and sustain us, to raise-up friends unto us. We know that we must be tested if earth life is to fulfill its purpose. We see the truth and the wisdom of the words of the Lord when he tenderly said to the Prophet Joseph Smith, "... Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good." Latter-day Saint mothers, obedient to God's commands, may ever find comfort in this blessed promise of the Lord, whether their path be through green pastures or over rocky roads: And now, verily I say unto you, and what I say unto one I say unto all, be of good cheer, little children; for I am in your midst, and I have not forsaken you (D&C 61:36). May this be our blessing is my earnest prayer.
