[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 872 | Lesson | Literature — The Place of Suffering in Life, Part I Robert | K. Thomas]
LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 13: The Place of Suffering in Life, Part I. (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 363-71, 380-85, and 397-404.) For Fourth Meeting, February 1966. Objective: To examine the nature of grief and man's resources @ At first glance the men who came to comfort Job, in the wellknown Old Testament account, seem only to have increased his grief. In the series of exchanges in which they discuss the nature of suffering, both Job and his friends become angry and upset with one another. They find it difficult to agree upon the reasons for the suffering which appears to come inevitably upon man. "Yet man is born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward" (Job 5: 7). It is worth noting, however, that Job is only prepared to hear and appreciate the final, resolving words of the Lord after he and his companions have demonstrated the inadequacy of the usual explanations for suffering. Our discussions with others in time of sorrow may be equally frustrating; but, like Job, we need to talk—if only to overcome the isolation which grief usually imposes. Proverbially we are told that 'misery loves company," but the company that misery would 872 in time of suffering. Keep is not the fellowship of tears. In time of grief we do not yearn to hear the misfortunes of others; we need an audience for our own sorrow! For when grief can be spoken, the first step toward controlling it has been achieved. THE LAMENT In the three selections which we will consider this month, the first two present situations focused in personal loss. In 'The Lament," by Anton Chekhov, for instance, note how the setting helps to set the mood of the story. It is twilight. A thick wet snow is slowly twirling around the newly lighted street lamps, and lying in soft thin layers on roofs, on horses' backs, on people's shoulders and hats. The cab driver Iona Potapov is quite white, and looks like a phantom; he is bent double as far as a human body can bend double; he is seated on his box; he never makes a move. If a whole snowdrift fell on him, it seems as if he would not find it necessary to shake it off. His little horse is also quite white, and remains motionless; its immobility, its angularity, and its straight wooden-looking legs, even close by, give it the appearance of a gingerbread horse worth a kopek. It is, no doubt, plunged in deep thought... (Text, page 365). The cab driver, Iona Potapov, makes no move to shake the weight of the snow from his shoulders until he is aroused by others. The encompassing nature of his grief and his seeming inability to wake himself from the stupor of his loss are thus early suggested. When Iona is aroused, however, it is only to include his fare in the sorrow which fills his world. It would be hard to present the relativity of suffering more clearly. No attempt is made to show that the cabdriver is unusually sensitive. In fact his reaction to the treatment he receives at the hands of those who employ him suggests just the opposite. By Chekhov's own description, Iona is an "insignificant shell," yet all the world he can conceive of is disordered by the death of his son. He finds it hard to understand that the worlds of the officer and the "gay young gentlemen" who hire his cab are not similarly out of balance. Despite rude rebuffs he cannot believe that there is not at least one person who needs to listen to what he needs to tell. The only way the father can reorder his world is to fit each detail of his son's sickness and death into the human picture that is somehow larger than the numbing isolation of his own loss. Particularly effective in this story is the picture we get of the devices people use to insulate themselves from their fellow men. The officer is not totally unmoved by mention of the son's death, LESSON DEPARTMENT but he is more interested in efficiency than in sympathy. He is briskly up and doing, concerned with getting to his destination as directly as possible. He discourages conversation by closing his eyes, thus effectively shutting off contact with a world which might not reduce easily to the giving and receiving of orders. The trio of young men who next engage the cab are also in a hurry, but theirs is not the urging of efficiency. In them we can see the impatience of shallow minds whose attention span is childishly short. Yet their very exuberance momentarily engulfs Iona. Their insults at least include him, and the blows they rain upon his back are easier to bear than the deliberate detachment of the officer. No one of the youths, however, is really capable of listening to anyone except himself. They exist in the deceptive isolation of the convivial group which never becomes more than a mechanical assembling of self-centered individuals. The old cabdriver is at last driven to telling his story in the detail it demands to his horse. As pitiful as this seems, at first glance, it is not an "unhappy" ending. In speaking aloud his grief for the dead, Iona begins to make his peace with life. WAR The second selection, Luigi Pirandello's "War" makes up in intensity what it seems to lack in complexity. No attempt is made to give us background beyond that necessary for setting up the dramatic effect of the question which is at the heart of the story, "Then... Is your son really dead?" This little tale is an excel- 


 lent example of the impact which a good short story can have. There is nothing extraneous here to sidetrack us. The key idea behind this account is not a subtle one which must be developed slowly in order that we understand all its ramifications. Like the fat man in the story we are forced to see that the most carefully wrought argument is no match for the simplest manifestation of emotional reality. How the mother's question cuts through the fine phrases and the empty sentiments of the old man's speech! The author is not suggesting that patriotism is impossible; he isn't even suggesting that it is undesirable. What he is insisting is that so basic a feeling as the loss of a son is not countered by rhetoric. The father of the dead boy has almost convinced himself intellectually that his son's death was inevitable— even beautiful. The mother's artless question lets us see what a house of cards such an attempt is. Unless we have some profound emotional resources to draw upon in time of grief, we may delay our surrender, but we still finally succumb. COMPENSATION The third selection for this month, "Compensation" by Ralph Waldo Emerson, tries to help us draw upon strengths which we may all have. If, however, our standards of success and happiness are rooted superficially, we may well spend our lives in misery and mourning. Emerson insists, however, that if we view life from a higher—and more discriminating level, we cannot fail to see that all success, apparent or real, 874 costs just what we are willing to pay, and that failure is not without its compensations. An interesting point here is that such equalization need not be deferred to an after life. We cannot escape being affected by what happens to us, but we need to be careful that we do not gauge its effect too soon. There are two ideas in this selection which are particularly significant. The first is stated (page 399) in the sentence 'All things are moral." If Emerson's point is true, every choice we make is a moral choice. Since our ability to develop spiritually hinges clearly on our moral sensitivity, we need to accept this fact—so easily forgotten or neglected—that all choices count. There are no insignificant decisions if each one has eternal consequences. Emerson would suggest that our failure to see the far-ranging results of our choices only demonstrates our insensitivity, or our reluctance to face the truth. The second idea is the concept that goodness need not be purchased by evil. As Emerson puts it, "there is no penalty to virtue." Goodness may take effort, and in this sense "cost," but life is no mere balance. There is no penalty to virtue; no penalty to wisdom; they are proper additions of being. In a virtuous action I properly am; in a virtuous act I add to the world.... There can be no excess to love, none to knowledge, none to beauty, when these attributes are considered in the purest sense. The soul refuses limits, and always affirms an Optimism, never a Pessimism.... The compensations of calamity are made apparent to the understanding also, after long intervals of time.... The death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover, which seemed nothing but privation, somewhat later assumes the aspect of a guide... For it commonly operates revolutions in our way of life. (text, page 403). The scriptural injunction that "all things work together for good to them that love God" really sums up the point of this essay. The grief and despair of Chekhov's '""Lament" and Pirandello's "War" may be a destroying flame or a refining fire. As Emerson so eloquently says, "What will you LESSON DEPARTMENT have? Quoth God; pay for it and take it." QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. In what sense is it possible to share another's grief? Can we comfort someone if we don't share his sorrow? 2. Discuss Emerson's assertion that "all infractions of love" are speedily punished by fear. What meaning might this have in determining relationships within the family?

Truth Is Many-Faceted Vilate R. McAllister Truth is many-faceted, A gem of wondrous worth. Though men have prayed and searched for it Unto the ends of earth, Truth is not hid, but on a hill Where anyone can see: Continual flashes scintillate, Enlightening you. And me. No human eye may see the whole, But each must be content With one small portion, with the gleam In his direction sent. One ray of color reaches me, Another reaches you, And so we must dispute awhile Which color is the true. Although new facets may be seen In changing light and shade, And viewpoints may be altered When journeyings are made, Our vision still is limited To facets of this gem. Only God can fully see The perfect diadem.

"Song of Love''—solo 2-.-++-.50 — "Song of Love'—dvet 50 (Lovely for weddings, anniversaries) Words by Nephi J. Bott OAKLAND AND "Crossing the Bar'—trio.50 LOS ANGELES (Words by Tennyson) "Claim Thou My Heart''—trio.50 Nov. 11 (Words and music by O. P. S.) Will be time for those who wish NEW BOOKS, IDEAL FOR toggoi flaca le FAMILY HOUR TENDER APPLES --: ceseeeese0-$3.95 (Biography of Ettie Lee, Illus.) — WEST WIND SONG 00 ccsseeeoee$4.00 (Poetry, delightfully illustrated) BUTTERMILK AND BRAN 0 $4.00 Esther James Tours (Short stories) 460 7th Avenue Autographed—Mailed anywhere Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 ORA PATE STEWART. 11282 Anabel Ave. Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Garden Grove, Calif. 92640 876 Your kitchen stays cleaner when you COOK ELECTRIC If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY BEAUTIFUL HANDY I DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Sait Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.55 Zone 6 90 Zone 3.60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 1 WW we 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 80 eS —— a PESERET [PEws PREsS HAWAIIAN TOURS

believably low rates because we do accept drinkers and smokers, who cause high rates. Your superior health, non-smoker. The new Hospitalization Plan Also, your premiums can never be_ raised because you grow older or have too many claims. Only a general rate adjustment up or down could affect your low rates. And only you can cancel your policy. We cannot. DO THIS TODAY! Fill out application below and mail right away. Upon approval, your policy will be promptly mailed. Coverage begins at noon on effective date of your policy. Don't delay. Every day almost 50,000 people enter hospitals. So get your protection now. We invite 'close comparison with any other plan. Actually, no other is like ours. But compare rates. See what you save. MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE Read over your policy carefully. Ask your mintster, lawyer and doctor to examine it. Be sure it provides exactly what we say if does. Ther, if for any reason at all you are not 100%, satisfied, just mail your policy back to us within 30 days and we will immediately refund your entire premium. No questions asked. You can gain thousands of dollars you risk nothing. READ YOUR AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN BENEFITS 1. You receive $100 cash weekly — TAX FREE—even for life, from the first day you enter a hospital. Good in any hospital in the world. We pay in addition to any other insurance you carry. We send you our payments Air Mail Special Delivery so you have cash on hand fast. No limit on number of times you collect. 2. We cover all accidents and sicknesses, except pregnancy, any act of war or military service, pre-existing accidents or sickness, hospitalization caused by use of liquor or narcotics. On everything else you're fully protected—at amazinglv low rates' 3. Other benefits for loss within 90 days of accident (as described in policy). We pay $2000 cash for accidental death. Or $2000 cash for loss of one hand, one foot, or sight of one eve. Or $6000 cash for loss of bath eves, both hands. Or both feet. IMPORTANT: include first premium with application. LOOK AT THESE AMERICAN TEMPERANCE LOW RATES Pav Monthly $380 $590 Pay Yearly +38 $59 Each adult 19-59 pays Each adult 60-69 pays ee Each adult 70-100 pays + jal Med ae and under poys $ 2 80 $ 28 SAVE TWO MONTHS PREMIUM BY PAYING YEARLY! — rem Se —— cm I R. I I I I I l I I I I I TEAR OUT AND MAIL TODAY BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE S. 3396 APPLICATION TO BUCKINGHAM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, EXECUTIVE OFFICES, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS FoR AT-100 AMERICAN TEMPERANCE HOSPITALIZATION POLICY Name (PLEASE PRINT) Street of RO & County Age City State Zip Date of Birth Month Day Year Heght Weight Relationship Occupation Beneficiary I also apply for coverage for the members of my family listed below AGE HEIGHT WEIGHT BENEFICIARY NAME BIRTH DATE —I NL] ~ I I Yo the best of your knowledge and belief, are you and all members fisted above in good I health and free from any physical impairment, or disease? Yes, ] No} 1 To the best of your knowledge, have you or any member above listed had medical advice I or treatment, of have you or they been advised to have a surgical operation in the last five years? Yes (}] No) If so, please give detaris stating person affected, cause, I Gate, name and address of attending physician, and whether fully recovered I I Neither I nor any person listed above uses tobacco or alcoholic beverages, and I hereby apply for a policy based on the understanding that the policy does not cover conditions Ofiginating prior to its effective date, and that the policy is issued solely and entirely in reliance upon the written answers to the above questions Date: Signed X Matt this application wth AMERICAN TEMPERANCE ASSOCIATES, Inc., your first premium to ATJAT BOX 131, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS 97 §