[Vol52 | November 1965 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Lesson | Title: 854 Theology — Great Truths; the School of the Prophets Roy W. Doxey]
branches  here  do  not  have  a  great 
deal  of  contact  with  "The  World-Wide 
Sisterhood."  Showing  the  sisters  the 
articles  on  womanhood,  the  family, 
and  food  really  enthuses  them.  We  are 
really  thankful  for  a  Magazine  that 
helps  so  much  with  members  and  in- 
vestigators. 
Elder  Stephen  M.  Winn 
Argentine  Mission 
I  was  so  happy  to  see  the  article  "Let's 
Speak  Correctly"  in  the  August  issue  of 
the  Magazine  (by  Myrtle  E.  Henderson). 
There  is  another  word  I  wish  had  been 
included  and  that  is  patriarchal.  I  have 
heard  many  supposedly  well-educated 
people  mispronounce  all,  or  most  -all, 
of  the  words  mentioned  in  the  article. 
I  think  this  type  of  information  is  won- 
derful to  have  in  the  Magazine.  We 
need  to  speak  correctly. 
Helen  Rentz 
Drain,  Oregon 
The  Magazine  was  a  gift  from  Sister 
Eloise  Ward  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
who  was  a  good  missionary  in  Hong 
Kong  the  last  two  years.  I  thank  her 
very  much  for  letting  me  read  such  a 
good  Magazine.  I  enjoyed  it  very  much 
and  am  longing  for  it  every  month. 
Mrs.  Lily  N.  Chong 
Hong  Kong 
Southern  Far  East  Mission 
The  cover  of  the  September  Maga- 
zine is  very  beautiful,  and  the  stories 
and  articles  all  inspirational.  I  am 
waiting  for  all  the  issues  before  start- 
ing to  read  "Ring  Around  Her  Heart," 
by  Shirley  Thulin — too  impatient  to 
wait  a  whole  month  to  see  what  hap- 
pens. I  have  done  this  with  the  last 
few  serials  and  enjoy  them  so  much. 
Relief  Society  and  the  Magazine  are 
two  of  my  special  loves.  May  God 
continue  to  guide  you  in  serving  the 
women  of  the  Church. 
Helen  B.  Leslie 
Provo,  Utah 
As  a  novice  literature  class  leader,  I 
want  to  express  my  gratitude  for  the 
inspired  lessons  which  constitute  our 
literature  course  at  this  time.  I  feel 
that  they  are  timely,  essential,  broad- 
ening, refining,  and  truly  a  privilege  to 
conduct.  Relief  Society  is  the  leavening 
in  my  life,  and  I  truly  have  used  it  and 
the  Magazine  as  testimony  builders. 
Myrna  Tanner  Gibson 
Mesa,  Arizona 
I  wish  to  convey  my  deep  gratitude  for 
our  lovely  Magazine.  I  am  a  missionary 
in  the  Spanish-American  Mission,  and 
feel  it  hard  to  express  the  Magazine's 
value  as  a  tool  in  proselyting.  The  dear 
Spanish-speaking  sisters  love  to  listen 
as  we  translate  the  stories  into  their 
native  tongue,  and  they  progress 
spiritually,  as  well  as  materially,  from 
the  lessons  and  suggestions.  It  is  a 
happy  day  in  our  lives  when  the  Maga- 
zine comes. 
Elaine  Mott 
Laredo,  Texas 
I  have  taken  the  Magazine  for  fifty 
years  and  have  received  wonderful  in- 
spiration from  the  lessons,  stories,  and 
poems.  They  have  helped  in  guiding 
my  children. Emmaline  Winsor  McBride 
Pima,  Arizona 
802

Relief    Society  Magazine 
Volume  52        November  1965        Number  11 
Editor     Marianne  C.  Sharp         Associate  Editor     Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager     Belle  S.  Spafford 
Special  Features 
804  The   Blessings   of  Experience     Belle  S.  Spafford 
808  Love,  the  Measuring  Rod     Marianne  C.  Sharp 
810  Behold,  I  Have  Set  Before  Thee  an  Open  Door     Louise  W.  Madsen 
813  Report  and   Official   Instructions      Belle  S.  Spafford 
Fiction 
819     Frost  in  the  Valley     Sara  O.  Moss 
829     "Star  Light,  Star  Bright"     Christie  Lund  Coles 
842     Ring  Around  Her  Heart  —  Chapter  7     Shirley  Thulin 
General  Features 
802     From  Near  and  Far 
825  Woman's  Sphere     Ramona  W.  Cannon 
826  Editorial:  Under  the  Priesthood     Marianne  C.  Sharp 
828     Notes  to  the  Field:   Booklet  "For  the  Strength  of  Youth"  Available 
847     Notes  From  the  Field:     Relief  Society  Activities 
880     Birthday  Congratulations 
The  Home -Inside  and  Out 
837  Waiting  for  the  Kettle  to  Boil     Maxine  T.  Grimm 
838  Fruit  Cakes  for  Christmas     Mabel  Harmer 
840  Pudding  Cakes     Elaine  J.  Wilson 
841  Knitting  Needles  and  Crochet  Hooks  Bring  Happiness  to  Many 
Lessons  for  February 
854  Theology — Great  Truths;  the  School  of  the  Prophets     Roy  W.  Doxey