[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: AFTERNOON SESSION. | Author: Unknown]

AFTERNOON SESSION.

	Sister Emmeline B. Wells: I feel as
some of the sisters said, that it is too bad
for us who are always talking to the Re-
lief Society to take the time to day, when
we have the brethren here, and es-
pecially when we have President Smith,
	I have been thinking while I have
been sitting here, that all of you younger
people will remember with as much joy
and satisfaction that you shook hands
with President Joseph F. Smith as I re-
member when I was very young of shaking
hands with the Prophet Joseph. I can
never forget it, nor the sensation that it
gave me, that I felt as if I did not want
anyone to speak to me; I felt it was such
a sacred thing. Now I hope you children,
all of you who have seen him seen him here to day,
and all of you who have shaken hands
with him, will remember it with as much
joy, because he stands in the same posi-
tion with us as Joseph the Prophet did,
although of course he is not THE PROPHET
of this dispensation, not the first, but he
is one of them and we know him well, feel
very greatly honored whenever we are in
his presence, or with him, and feel that we 
would like him to come into our homes,
and I am sure you would feel glad that he 
came into this hall today.
	I look back and remember with a great
deal of pleasure the day on which the or-
ganization of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake was effected, when Presi-
dent Young and others associated with 
him came and visited the Relief Society,
when all the organizations were gathered
together, the Relief Society, and the
Young Ladies associations, in the taber-
nacle. Of course President Shurtliff was
there, although he was not the President
then. And others here who remember
that great occasion, and we had never
thought of stake organizations of the Re-


[Column 1]
lief Society, although some stakes had
been organized ecclesiastically. On that
occasion a great many good things
were said by President Young and others
who were there with him, and toward
the latter part of the meeting he ap-
pointed Sister Jane S. Richards, who is
here with us to day. That was twenty-
eight years ago the 19th of July, and he
appointed her to preside over all the or-
ganizations. At that time the Young
Ladies Association, or the Retrenchment
Associations, were with the Relief Society,
and had no central organization, nor had
the Relief Society. I often asked Sister
Eliza if she was really the President, and
she said: ,,No, I am not, because I have
not been elected". But she was elected
afterwards, as you know, in 1880, and had
her counselors. But that was the begin-
ning of stake organizations, and when-
ever I come to a conference here and see
a large number of sisters gathered to-
gether I look back to that period of time.
You know we older people are always
looking back and thinking of things that
happened so long ago, and I am always
thinking of those that were there at that
time, and many of them that have gone
on the other side. We have more of them
over there; in fact we have only about
three of the oldest veterans of the Re-
lief Society living, and those are our own
General President, Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, and Sister Jane S. Richards and
Sister Mary Isabella Horne, who is not
able now to be among us and visit us,
but is still living and able to talk with us,
and sometimes goes out among us. These
three I consider as veterans that stand
in the Relief Society of those who stood
in the beginning, although Sister Richards
and Sister Horne were not present on the
great occasion, which we must call a
great occasion and a grand occasion, when
the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the
Relief Society, on the 17 day of March,
1842. And what a wonderful work has
been done since then!
	I do hope, that you sisters at the farther
end of the hall heard what our President
said to us to day, because really she stands
in a way alone, being present at the first
organization, and also being the only one
living, man or woman, who received her
endowments in the days of the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and so it seems a wonder-
ful thing to all of us who know it, and we
think of it and we feel, that she has
certainly been spared for some great pur-
pose; and it is a great purpose to stand at
the head of this organization, and to lead
it and to plan for it. Of course you who
plan for your own little wards and for
your own stakes of Zion, think that is
a great thing; but when you come to plan
for all the organizations all over the
world, and new ones being made almost
all the time, why it is a wonderful thing
to stand at the head of that. And then
remember too, that she is the leading
woman in the temple, in the greatest
temple, the Salt Lake Temple, where
those great manifestations were at the
time it was dedicated, in that holy place.
I think we cannot reverence her, or the
other sisters I spoke of, too much. We
are happy to reverence those, who are
gone, the prophets, who are gone, and
the Apostles; but we must also remember
to reverence those that we have with us
to day: the president, his counselors, the
apostles, and those who stand at the

[Column 2]
head of the great organizations of the
quorums of Seventy and preach the Gospel
to all the world, I thought to day, when
Brother John Henry was speaking about
the missionaries outside in the world, and
mentioned some of the opportunities they
have, how often I have said to the young
people, and also to the mothers who
mourn for their sons going, which they
very often do, that it was the best thing
in the world for them. It is far better than
any college training, or any university
training, and we know many of us, that
the men who have gone out into the
world and never have had any of that
training have brought many souls to
Christ, have baptized many into the
church, and have had great success. The
spirit of God has been poured out upon
them. It does not need a college education
to give us the spiritual powers, and the
humblest and those who seek unto the
Lord himself, and read the Scriptures
and the Book of Mormon and the Book
of Covenants, will have that spirit with
them, or may have it, and do have it, to
a great extent. And if there is a book
that I think we ought to read it is the
Book of Covenants, that was given by
revelation to our prophet, the leader of
this dispensation, in this day and age of
the world; and I know it is not read as
it should be, and I know that many of us
who do read it read it carelessly.
	I do want to say that we have testi-
mony upon testimony every day of
our lives now, of the truth of the Gospel,
just think of the dark clouds that were
hanging over us a while back. O, they
were so dark that it almost seemed as
dark in Salt Lake City as it did in Nauvoo
when the Prophet Joseph was killed. It
seemed as if such a heavy dark cloud was
hanging over that city just about the
time that our brethren were called to go
down to Washington and testify, and
there were of course a very great many
prayers offered up, and no doubt a great
deal of faith exercised, for certainly the
Lord lifted that dark cloud and removed
from our hearts the fears and doubts and
forebodings that many of us had at that
time in regard to the outcome. And every
day these things are being removed, and
light is coming, faster and more of it, and
intelligence and wisdom and understand-
ing, and I h[-]pe that we will all partake
of it.
	I hope that the Lord may bless us with
wisdom and understanding, and that we
may never do or say anything that shall
grieve the spirit of the Lord, or those who
preside over us in all the places where we
are called to labor.
	President Smith's address will follow
in our next number.


