Our Indian Cousins Melvin J. Ballard
======================================================================

Our Indian Cousins [The editor has had a long time promise from our new apostle, Elder Melvin J. Ballard, for some account of the wonderful manifestations witnessed by our elders amongst the Indians in his missionary diocese: and having just received the following interesting recital, we are happy to present it, feeling sure it will both interest and instruct our many readers.] THE FORT PECK INDIAN RESERVATION. Melvin J. Ballard, of the Council of the Twelve. Missionary work was commenced among the Indians on the Fort Peck Reservation, in Northeastern Montana, about eight years ago. Several missionaries have been assigned to that territory, have found many willing to listen to their message, and have distributed a number of copies of the Book of Mormon. Some of the believers had been baptized before the writer visited the reservation. The occasion of the visit was at a midsummer celebration, when there were some twelve hundred Indians present. They were encamped on a hundred-acre tract of ground, with their tents making almost a complete circle around the entire hundred acres. One day was spent in going from tent to tent, shaking hands with the Indians, and administering to their sick, the report of the beneficial results of the ministrations of the elders, in the sacred ordinance of the Gospel, having spread over the reservation. Many had received blessings at the hands of the elders, and when the people came to this celebration, they brought their sick with them. It was an occasion long to be remembered by those missionaries who participated in it, for we have seen nothing like it in our missionary life. It was our privilege to administer to the blind, the lame, to consumptives, and in fact to those suffering from all kinds of ailments; but those who sought these blessings came with unquestioning faith, believing that if the elders of the Church should anoint their sick and pray over them, that the sick would be healed. We have not seen such faith among people anywhere in our missionary experiences, as we saw among those Indians. The results were that we saw their blind restored to sight; their lame made to walk, and the consumptives healed of their infirmities. One striking instance occurred during this visit, when an old gentleman about seventy years of age, after shaking hands with 144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the writer, recognized in him some one whom he had seen before, and began talking in his Indian tongue while the tears coursed down his cheeks. The interpreter who was with the party, explained that this old man had seen the writer in a dream some three years previous; saw him come to the reservation, and heard him preach the only true gospel. Needless to say that not only the poor old Indian was now in tears, but also we grateful missionaries were weeping, thankful to the Lord that he had given us such a testimony. It was an evidence to us that we were engaged in the right work and that the Lord was cooperating with us. This elderly Lamanite was baptized as were many others. It was our privilege to speak to some five hundred of them in one of these gatherings, where they listened intently to the story of their forefathers, and the promised blessings on condition of repentance and obedience. From time to time, since then, we have noted the growing faith of those who have received the GROUP OF BLACKFEET INDIAN CHIEFS ON THE BLACKFOOT RESERVATION. ELDER JOHN GALBRAITH IN CENTER OF GROUP. gospel, and the blessings attending the administrations to the sick continue to this day. The cases are so numerous that we do not pretend to give them in this brief article. The Lord has wonderfully blessed this people during the present epidemic. While many have been stricken, they have called for the elders, and so far as we know, in no single case where the elders have administered to those stricken with influenza, have their lives been taken, and we rejoice in this goodness of the Lord. Evidently the adversary has also been very much disturbed over the success of our work, for we have built a comfortable church and mission OUR INDIAN COUSINS. 145 home, and have been conducting a school, through the assistance of our faithful missionaries. A few months ago, two families became somewhat disturbed in their faith, and criticized some of their brethren, to the extent that they were about to withdraw from the Church, when the following remarkable circumstance occurred in the case of one of these sisters: Two weeks after the criticism referred to, she came into her room one day, and on entering heard a voice calling her by name. She could see no one, and after looking in all parts of the room  for she lived in a one-room house, she heard the voice again. Upon looking up, she declares that the whole roof disappeared, and that there was standing in the air above her, a personage dressed in white, who had a long beard which she said looked like white pearls. Addressing her, he stated that she "must repent of her sins and listen to the 'Mormon' Elders, for they had delivered to her the word of God, and that if she would gain salvation, she must obey what they had said, and remain faithful." She lived about a quarter of a mile from the mission headquarters. Immediately she started for the mission home, came through the field, and arrived in a breathless condition, and at once asked if she had been cut off from the Church. When she was informed that she had not, she fell to her knees and began thanking the Lord, and begged forgiveness for the course which she had taken, and was overjoyed with the glad welcome which was extended by the Saints and the elders. The writer heard her relate this testimony, and from her steadfast course since then, is convinced that she received a genuine manifestation from the Lord. One other instance: We had not talked much about temple work to the Indians, for we had all we could do for the present to instruct the living in the course which they should take; but one of the Indians had a dream in which he saw the interior of the Salt Lake temple; at least the description tallied exactly with both the exterior and the interior of that building. He had a good description of all the rooms including the baptismal font. He said in that room was a great pool of iron resting on the backs of iron oxen, containing water, and that when he entered the room he found it full of the spirits of his forefathers. They told him that they had been waiting for him for a long time, and that he must now do something for them. After relating his story, he asked us what it was that he could do for his forefathers. When we explained to him baptism for the dead, and told him that he had received a view of the interior of the Salt Lake temple, his heart was overjoyed, and we felt that it was another additional witness to us that we should teach, not only salvation for the living, but also redemption for the dead, and the spirit of this 146 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. work has been upon the Indians ever since. So far as they can, they are gathering up the genealogy of their dead, preparatory to entering the Canadian temple when it is completed, to do this work. These very remarkable circumstances are convincing proofs to our missionaries that the time for the conversion of the Lamanite has come, and that the Lord is cooperating for their enlightenment in a wonderful way. The work has already begun on a number of other reservations, and from present conditions it will be extended to all parts of the mission; it will not be long until successful missions will be established for each reservation. We feel that this is only the beginning of the good work that will yet be accomplished. I desire to add to my own testimony as given above, the following from two of our faithful missionaries, Elders Joseph A. Packer and Clarence F. Riddle. Elder Riddle is still laboring on the reservation: "According to your request, we are sending you some articles from our diary in regard to the many marvelous manifestations of healings manifested among the Indians on the Fort Peck Reservation. "In the winter of 1913, when Arley Marshal and myself were sent out together, we were called in to administer to Brother Bear Skin, who was blind. We did so, and when we removed our hands from his head, he remarked in the Indian tongue, "Now I see!" and he has seen ever since. Just recently in our fast meeting, he bore a strong testimony, remarking about the great power of healing enjoyed among our people here. "That same winter, in company with Brother Nimrod Davis and Elder Marshal, while traveling through the Reservation, we came to a home where a girl nineteen years old had been sick for nine years, apparently suffering with leakage of the heart. She was administered to that night and the next morning, and then we didn't see her again until the midsummer celebration. When we met her there, she was strong and healthy. "The next summer Elder George J. Henderson was my companion, and we were called to administer to several Indians. On one particular occasion we called on one whose feet and legs were swollen so bad that he could not stand up. We anointed his legs and administered to him. The next time we saw him was at the midsummer celebration, dancing the war dance. "Another instance was of a young man who had been brought thirty miles to be administered to. He was very low with consumption. We met him while in company with President Melvin J. Ballard at the midsummer celebration, and were requested to OUR INDIAN COUSINS. 147 administer to him. We did so, and have been informed that he has recovered his health. "Since my return to the reservation, we have many similar manifestations of healing. One instance experienced in particular: Elder Marvin W. Jones and I were called in to a neighbor's, INDIANS PREPARING FOR WAR DANCE. to administer to a little boy who was very sick. As we entered the room the mother said, 'Look here, Elders, his feet have already turned purple.' We administered to him, and when we looked over there the next morning, we saw the little boy out playing. "I am afraid I am taking too much space. Suffice it to say that Elder Riddle and myself are experiencing similar manifestations. We often have Indians come from Canada and North Dakota to be administered to." CORRECTION. In "Our Indian Cousins," in the February Magazine, the name of Ira D. Hatch was wrongly given as Harry Hatch. His numerous friends wish this typographical error made right.