Story of the Organization of the Relief Society
======================================================================

Relief Society Magazine Vol. VI. MARCH, 1919. No. 3. Story of the Organization of the Relief Society The month of March calls to our minds the organization of our beloved Society. We have printed brief outlines of the organization; but frequent calls come to the office for more data, for fuller details. So, this month, we are publishing the fourth chapter from our history which gives the full and complete story of how this Society came into existence: The erection of a temple  of which the foundation stones were laid April 6th, 1841, inspired the Saints in Nauvoo and vicinity with the livliest impulses to put forth their utmost efforts in both spiritual and material matters. The temporary font for baptisms for the.dead was completed in November of the same year. The proposal to erect a House of the Lord naturally made a profound impression, for the revelations on salvation for the dead had already- been received by the Prophet, and the wide view of eternal justice there shown, thrilled the Saints with glorious hope. According to a description given in the S^er, the temple should be "two stories in the clear and two half stories in the recesses over the arches, four tiers of windows, two^ gothic and two round, with the two great halls which were to have two pulpits, one at each end, to accommodate the Melchizedek and Aaronic priesthoods; and there were to be thirty hewn stone pilasters which would cost $3,000 apiece, the steeple thereof to be 200 feet high;" the cost of the whole to be between $100,000 and $200,000. A Captain Brown of Tobasco, Central America, which was a town near the ruins of Palenque, who came up the river and saw the Temple in process of construction, remarked, 'It will look the nearest like the splendid remains of antiquity in Central America of anything To know I have that ever this seen,remarkable though of edifice course, was not half so large." to crown the 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. summit of the highest eminence in the vicinity, erected in the wilderness by men and women who had, but two years before, settled down in destitution and poverty upon this western outpost, inspired the highest emotions of their human hearts. Men toiled as never before; women.sacrificed and smiled over their domestic deprivations and machinations as women had not smiled since the days of Solomon. Many of the women were eager to do their share in this great enterprise. We read in Lucy Mack Smith's history of the Prophet, concerning the labors of the women in Kirtland when the Temple there was in process of erection: "Mary Bailey and Agnes Coolbirth were then boarding with me; they devoted their time to making and mending clothes for Ruins of Nauvoo Temple 1857; the Temple in 1846. the men who were employed on the Temple. There was but one mainspring to all our thoughts and actions, and that was, the building of the Lord's house." Meanwhile we may note that somewhere in the reflex action of the inspired mind of the Prophet there mtist have dwelt for a long time the thought of unlocking the ancient door of domestic limitations for the women of the latter day. That thought was slowly gathering accretions to itself from the universe which was STORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 129 to result in one supreme upheaval for womanhood. Some of the women,of Nauvoo were especially anxious to do their part. The labors of Mary and Mercy FieldingSmith in establishing the Temple Penny Subscription Fund were noted in a previous chapter. This work was still proceeding diligently, yet the women wished to do still more and more. Among the many intelligent and superior women of the Church was Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, born in Ontario Co., New York, in 1818, and married to Hyrum Kimball, in 1840. She and many other intellectually aggressive women greatly desired to assist in the erection of the temple. Her own relation of what took place will tell the simple, yet dramatic story better than any words of ours: "In the spring of 1842, a maiden lady (Miss Cook) was seamstress for me, and the subject of combining our efforts for assisting the Temple hands came up in conversation. She desired to be helpful but had no means to furnish. I told her I would furnish material if she would make some shirts for the workmen. It was then suggested that some of the neighbors might wish to combine means and efforts with ours, and we decided to invite afew to come and consult with us on the subject of forming a Ladies' Society. The neighboring sisters met in my parlor and decided to organize. I was delegated to call on Sister Eliza R. Snow and ask her to write for us a constitution and by-laws and submit them to President Joseph Smith prior to our next Thursday's meeting. She cheerfully responded, and when she read them to him he replied that the constitution and by-laws were the best he had ever seen. 'But,' he said, 'this is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them than a written constitution. Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren in the Masonic Hall over my store next Thursday afternoon, and I will organize the sisters under the priesthood after a pattern of' the priesthood.' He further said, 'The Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized.' " We may not question the fact that there were many qualified women in Nauvoo who were not present at the initial meeting of our great organization, but as there were 18 women invited by the Prophet to attend, a number of them no doubt Sister Kimball's friends who had already met with her, these eighteen women were thus honored and it is a pleasure to record their names faithfully in this history. What emotions arise in our souls when we contemplate that gathering in the upper room of the Masonic Lodge. We see, in fancy, these eager women completing their household tasks in 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. order to reach the rendezvous at the appointed time. Always thrilled with inspiration and tender emotion when listening to their Prophet's voice, they were now surcharged with surprised anticipation, for they themselves were to be lifted out of the rut of time and set upon the hillside of public life, to encompass strange, new functions and to receive revelation concerning their own sphere and activity. What did it all portend? We see them in our mind's eye rustling softly and modestly, yet with dignity and grace into the meeting chamber of the Lodge; for they were ladies  those lovely pioneer women real, old fashioned, dignified ladies! Here was the wife of the Prophet, Emma Smith, a woman of large proportions and with a dominant presence. Near her sat her friend, Mrs. Cleveland, gracious, refined and persuasive; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, benign, tenderhearted and spiritual; not far away was the poetess, Eliza R. Snow, supreme in intellect, fastidious in personal integrity, with rare creative powers and powerful in testimony; Bathsheba W. Smith, graceful and composed; Leonora Taylor, gracious, stately and modest; Sarah M. Kimball, alert, studious and proud. We miss the presence of the Prophet's mother, Lucy Mack Smith, first of living modern women, and of Mary Fielding Smith, charming and MRS. EMMA HALE SMITH. dignified wife of the Patriarch Hyrum Smith. We miss Zina D. H. Young, Prescinda Buel Kimball and M. Isabella Horne  who were then in and about Nauvoo and who were later very active in this work, both in Nauvoo and in Utah. The historian lingers lovingly over that scene of all scenes for the modern women. We, too, are silent with the other eighteen women whose alert attention was instantly given when the Prophet Joseph Smith, majestic and magnetic, entered the room with two other great leaders, Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards. The Prophet was always as the sun in any human universe wherein he entered. From him radiated light, warmth and life to the utmost recesses STORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 131 of surrounding space. We see him seated with his associates on the platform at the upper end of the room. The subsiding flutter of excitement and anticipation settled into rapt attention as he arose to his feet and addressed that chosen circle of women. We will now present to you the minutes in full of that meeting, as they were taken by the Secretary, pro tem., Elder Willard Richards. We give them in their own quaint phraseology and clear expression: A RECORD OF THE ORGANIZATION AND PROCEEDINGS OF THE FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY OF NAUVOO, ILLINOIS.. Nauvoo Lodge Room, March 17, 1842. Present: President Joseph Smith, John Taylor, Willard Richards, Emma Smith, and others. Elder John Taylor was called to the chair by President Smith, and Elder Willard Richards appointed Secretary. Meeting commenced by singing, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning;" prayer by Elder John Taylor. It was moved by President Smith, and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland, that a vote be taken to know if all are satisfied with each female present, and are willing to acknowledge them in full fellowship, and admit them to the privileges of the Association about to be formed. The names of those present were then taken as follows: Mrs. Emma Smith, Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann Hawkes, Elizabeth Jones, Sophia Packard, Phillinda Merrick, Martha Knight, Desdemona Fullmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Bathsheba W. Smith, Phebe M. Wheeler, Elvira A. Coles, Margaret A. Cook, Sarah M. Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Robinson, Leonora Taylor, Sophia R. Marks. President Smith and Elders Taylor and Richards withdrew while the sisters went into an investigation of the motion and decided that all present be admitted according to the motion; and that Mrs. Sarah Higbee, Thirza Cahoon, Kezia A. Morrison, Marinda N. Hyde, Abigail Allred, Mary Snider, Sarah Granger, should be admitted, whose names were presented by President Emma Smith. President Joseph Smith and Elders Taylor and Richards returned and the meeting was addressed by President Joseph Smith to illustrate the objects of the society  that the society of sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and administering to their wants, to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community, and save the elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties, etc., in their public teaching. 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. President Smith further remarked, "that an organization to show them how to go to work would be sufficient." He proposed that the sisters elect a presiding officer to preside over them, and let the presiding officer choose two counselors to assist in the duties of her office,  that he would ordain them to preside over the society, and let them preside just as the presidency preside over the Church; and if they needed his instructions, ask him, he will give it from time to time. "Let the Presidency serve as a constitution  all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such. If any officers are wanted to carry out the designs of the Institution, let them be appointed and set apart, as Deacons, Teachers, etc., are among us." "The minutes of your meetings will be precedent for you to act upon  your constitution and laws." The Prophet then suggested the propriety of electing a presidency to continue in office during good behavior, or so long as they shall continue to fill the office with dignity, etc., like the First Presidency of the Church. Motioned by Sister Whitney, and seconded by Sister Packard that Mrs. Emma Smith be chosen President. Passed unanimously. Moved by President Joseph Smith that Mrs. Smith MRS. ELIZABETH ANN WHITNEY. proceed to choose her counselors that they may be ordained to preside over this society in taking care of the poor, administering to their wants, and attending to the various affairs of this institution. The president-elect then made choice of Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney for counselors. President Joseph Smith read the revelation to Emma Smith from the book of Doctrine and Covenants; and stated that she was ordained at the time the revelation was given, to expound the Scriptures to all; and to teach the female part of the community; and that not she alone, but others, may attain to the same blessing. The second Epistle of John, first verse, was then read to STORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 133 show that respect was there had to the same thing; and that was why she was called an elect lady, is because she was elected to preside. Elder Taylor was then appointed to ordain the counselors; he laid his hands on the head of Mrs. Cleveland and ordained her to be a counselor to the elect lady, even Mrs. Emma Smith, to counsel and assist her in all things pertaining to her office, etc. Elder Taylor then laid his hands on the head of Mrs. Whitney and ordained her to be a counselor to Mrs. Smith, the President of the Institution, with all the blessings pertaining to the office, etc. He then laid his hands on the head of Mrs. Smith and blessed her and confirmed upon her all the blessings which had been conferred upon her that she might be a mother in Israel and look to the wants of the needy and be a pattern of virtue and possess all the qualifications necessary for her to stand and preside and dignify her office, to teach the females those principles requisite for their future usefulness. President Smith then resumed his remarks, and gave instructions how to govern themselves in their meetings; when one wishes to speak, address the chair  and the chairman responds to the address. Should two speak at once, the chair shall decide who speaks first  if anyone is dissatisfied, she appeals to the house. When one has the floor she occupies it as long as she pleases. The proper manner of address is: Mrs. Chairman or President and not Mr. Chairman, etc. A question can never be put until it has a second. When the subject for discussion has been fairly investigated, the chairman will say: Are you ready for the question? Whatever the majority of the house decide upon, becomes a law to the society. President Smith proceeded to give counsel: "Do not injure the character of anyone; if members of the society shall conduct themselves improperly, deal with them, and keep all your doings within your own bosoms and hold all characters sacred." It was then proposed that Elder Taylor vacate the chair. President Emma Smith and her counselors took the chair  and Elder Taylor moved  seconded by President J. Smith  that we go into an investigation respecting what this Society shall be called, which was carried unanimously. President Smith continued instructions to the chair to suggest to the members anything the chair might wish, and which it might not be proper for the Chair to put, or move, etc. Moved by Counselor Cleveland and seconded by Counselor Whitney, that this Society be called the Nauvoo Female Relief Society. 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Elder Taylor offered an amendment, that it be called the Nauvoo Female Benevolent Society, which would give a more definite and extended idea of the Institution  that Relief be struck out and Benevolent inserted. President Joseph Smith offered instructions on votes. The motion was seconded by Counselor Cleveland and unanimously carried, on the amendment by Elder Taylor. The President then suggested that she would like an argument with Elder Taylor on the words Relief and Benevolent. President Joseph Smith moved that the vote for amendment be rescinded, which was carried. Motion for adjournment by Elder Richards was objected to by President J. Smith. President Joseph Smith  Benevolent is a popular term and the term Relief is not known among the popular societies. Relief is more extended in its signification than Benevolent and might extend the liberation of the culprit  and might be wrongly construed by our enemies to say that the society is to relieve criminals from punishment, etc.,  to relieve a murderer would not be a benevolent act. President Emma Smith said the popularity of the word Benevolent is one great objection  no person can think of the word as associated with public institutions without thinking of the Washington Benevolent Society which was one of the most corrupt institutions  do not wish to have it called after other societies in the world. President Joseph Smith arose to state that he had no objection to the word Relief  that on question they ought to deliberate candidly and investigate all subjects thoroughly. Counselor Cleveland arose to remark concerning the question before the house that we should not regard the idle speech of our enemies  we design to act in the name of the Lord  to relieve the wants of the distressed, and do all the good we can. Eliza R. Snow arose and said she felt to concur with the President in regard to the word Benevolent, that many societies with which it had been associated were corrupt  that the popular institutions of the day should not be our guide  that as daughters of Zion we should set an example for all the world, rather than confine ourselves to the course which had been heretofore pursued. One objection to the word Relief, is, that the idea associated with it is that of some great calamity  that we intend appropriating on some extraordinary occasion instead of meeting the common occurrences. President Emma Smith remarked  We are going to do something extraordinary. When a boat is struck on the rapids with a multitude of "Mormons" on board, we shall consider that a loud 135 STORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. call for relief; we expect extraordinary occasions and pressing calls. Elder Taylor arose and said  I shall have to concede the point, your arguments are so potent that I cannot stand before them  I shall have to give way. President Joseph Smith said  I also shall have to concede the point. All I have to give to the poor I shall give to this Society. Counselor Whitney moved that this Society be called The Nauvoo Female Relief Society, seconded by Sister Cleveland. Eliza R. Snow offered an amendment by way of transposition of words; instead of the Nauvoo Female Relief Society, it shall be called The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. Seconded by President Joseph Smith and carried. The previous question was then put  Shall this Society be called the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo  carried unanimously. President Joseph Smith  I now declare this Society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usages  and all who shall hereafter be admitted to this society must be free from censure and be received by vote. President Joseph Smith offered a $5.00 gold piece to commence the funds of the institution. President Emma Smith suggested that the gentlemen withdraw before they proceed to the choice of secretary and treasurer, as was moved ELIZA R. SNOW. by President Smith. WILLARD RICHARDS, Secretary. The gentlemen withdrew when it was motioned and seconded and unanimously passed that Eliza R. Snow be appointed secretary, and Phebe M. Wheeler, assistant secretary. Motion seconded and carried unanimously that Elvira R. Coles be appointed treasurer. President Emma Smith then arose and proceeded to make 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. appropriate remarks on the object of the Society  its duties to others, also its relative duties to each other, viz., to seek out and relieve the distressed; that each member should be ambitious to do good. The members should deal frankly with each other and should watch over the morals and be very careful of the character and reputation of the members of the institution, etc. Phebe A. Hawkes  question  What shall we reply to interrogations relative to the object of this Society? President Emma Smith replied  For charitable purposes. Moved and passed that Cynthia Ann Eldredge be admitted as a member of the Society. Counselor Sarah M. Cleveland donated to the fund of the Society 12 cents, Sarah M. Kimball $1, President Emma Smith $1, Counselor Elizabeth Ann Whitney, 50 cents. President Emma Smith said that Mrs. Merrick was a widow  is industrious performs her work well  therefore, she recommended her to the patronage of such as wish to hire needlework those who hire widows must be prompt to pay as some have defrauded the laboring widow of her wages; we must be upright and deal justly. The business of the society concluded  the gentlemen before mentioned returned. Elder Richards appropriated to the funds of the Society, the sum of $1, Elder Taylor $2. Elder Taylor arose and addressed the Society by saying that he was much gratified in seeing a meeting of this kind in Nauvoo  his heart rejoiced when he saw the most distinguished characters stepping forth in such a cause, which is calculated to bring into exercise every virtue and give scope to the benevolent feelings of the female heart  he rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of heaven  according to a revelation previously given to Mrs. Emma Smith appointing her to this most important calling  and to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner  his prayer is that the blessing of God and the peace of Heaven may rest on this institution henceforth. The choir then sang, "Come Let Us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation." Motioned that this meeting be adjourned to next week, Thursday, ten o'clock a. m. The meeting then arose and was dismissed by prayer by Elder Taylor. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in his office journal, has this to say concerning the momentous organization which had just taken place: "I assisted in commencing the organization of 'The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo,' in the Lodge Room, Sister Emma STORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 137 Smith, President, and Sisters Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland, Counselors. I gave much instruction, read in the New Testament, and Book of Doctrine and Covenants concerning the Elect Lady, and showed that elect meant to be elected to a certain work, etc., and that the revelation was then fulfilled by Sister Emma's election to the Presidency of the Society, she having previously been ordained to expound the Scriptures. Emma was blessed, and her counselors were ordained by Elder John Taylor." There was no hesitancy in the manner and conduct of the Prophet in organizing the women that day. He knew exactly what should be done and he taught them in precise language what to do and how to do it. He called Elder John Taylor to the chair so that he himself might be permitted to discuss the questions at issue. He then moved that a vote be taken concerning the eligibility of each woman present for membership or full fellowship in the Society. There was no question as to age or social standing, relationship, or intellectual qualifications; yet each woman present must be in harmony and fellowship with all others present or she is not properly qualified to a place in the Society. Women were not asked if they were interested in one certain "cause" or "movement," or intellectual pursuit, but the fact of their respectability and standing in the community at large was the point at issue. Note the first lesson in self-government taught by the Prophet: As soon as the question of membership had been laid before those present, President Joseph Smith and companions withdrew while the sisters investigated the motion, and agreed upon a universal acceptance of all present. Then, following strictly parliamentary usage, the Prophet stated the objects of the Society. The limitless foundation upon which they were to build their organization was stated succinctly. He proceeded then to outline their present and future possibilities, stating clearly that all he expected to do was to give them the pattern and leave them to work out their own destiny. He stated the number and kind of officers with which they were to begin their organization, but told them they were to elect their own officers and choose others to accommodate their developing needs. He stood ready to give help and instructions from time to time if they required them. He deprecated the forming of a constitution  that rock upon which so many modern social organizations have split, giving the women of the Relief Society that elastic and inspired rule of action which permits their decisions to be considered as law. The minutes of meetings to be the precedent and substitute for a constitution and by-laws. Leaving the women 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. present to name their own officers, his wife Emma Hale Smith was proposed as President and she chose her counselors. After some instructions and the reading of that marvelous revelation to Emma Smith from the book of Doctrine and Covenants, the Prophet and his companions blessed and set apart the three women who had been chosen to preside over the Society. A PARAGRAPH FROM THE HISTORY OF JOSEPH SMITH. "Nauvoo, Ill., Thursday, March 24, 1842. "I attended by request, the Female Relief Society, whose object is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes. Its organization was completed this day. Mrs. Emma Smith takes the presidential chair; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and Sarah M. Cleveland are her counselors; Miss Elvira Cole is treasurer, and our well-known and talented poetess, Miss Eliza R. Snow, secretary. There was a very numerous attendance at the organization of the Society, and also at the subsequent meetings, of some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies; and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan, and make the widow's heart to rejoice. Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they receive from the barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of their persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil, and among a less barbarous people, and possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated. We had the privilege of being present at their organization, and were much pleased with their modus operandi, and the good order that prevailed. They are strictly parliamentary in their proceedings." (History of the Church, March 24, 1842, p. 567. Vol. 4.) How joyously the heart of woman beats when we contemplate this pregnant occasion. The first time certainly in this day and age when women were blessed and set apart by the laying on STORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 139 of hands for public activity. Woman's sphere, hitherto confined expressly within the four walls of her home, was now to be limited only by the confines of the Kingdom of God itself. Later she was to be ordained as priestess and high priestess in the sacred courts, to minister in the Temple of the living God; but this, of course, was not then known. It may be well here to add a qualifying word concerning the use of the word "ordain" which is found in these minutes as also in the Doctrine and Covenants and the History of the Church. The Latter-day Saints have broadened or narrowed the use of words in their Church history as occasion and the matter in hand might seem to warrant. We have the word presidency applied to three presiding officers instead of using it only as a noun descriptive of an office held by one man. The meaning of the word "ordain" as used at that time was to be appointed to a duty or an office. The ecclesiastical meaning of the word, however, is "to invest with ministerial and sacerdotal functions, to introduce into the office of the Christian ministry by the laying on of hands, to set apart by the ceremony of ordination." In more recent years there has been quite a distinction made among our people between "ordination" to the priesthood and "the setting apart" of any person to act in any one of its offices; so that we use today the term "set apart" in speaking of the ceremony which was then and is now used for officers in the Relief Society. Consider the possibility of the spiritual functions named by Elder John Taylor in blessing Emma Smith! She was to be a mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue, to look to the wants of the needy and to possess all the qualifications necessary to stand and preside and dignify her office, teach the "females" those principles requisite for their future usefulness. Contrast this calm and dignified beginning for women's organizations in the world with the record left us of the excited and tremulous efforts made by the few brave women led by Lucretia Mott, six years later, at Seneca Falls, when they set about forming the first organization of non-"Mormon" women known to modern times  "The Woman's Rights Convention." We are told in the History of Woman Suffrage: "To write a Declaration and Resolutions, to make a speech, and debate, had taxed their powers to the uttermost; and now, with such feeble voices and timid manners, without the slightest knowledge of Cushing's Manual, or the least experience in public meetings, how could a woman preside? They were on the verge of leaving the Convention in disgust, but Amy Post and Rhoda De Garmo assured them that by the same power by which they had resolved, declared, discussed, debated, they could also preside at a public meeting, if they would but make the experiment." (History of Woman's Suffrage, Stanton-Anthony-Gage, p. 75.) 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. In the organization of the Relief Society the Prophet proceeded to broaden forever the scope of action and inquiry which should be made into the character of future candidates. Recall his words: "Do not injure the character of anyone; if members of the Society shall conduct themselves improperly, deal with them, and keep all your doings within your own bosoms and hold all characters sacred." Not content with verbal instructions, the Prophet next proposed that the President of the Society and her counselors should occupy the chair of the meeting. There was native dignity and presence of mind exhibited by Emma Smith in thus presiding in this historic meeting. Every line of the minutes proves her to be composed, cheerful, and exceedingly sure of herself at a time and place when the character and inspired teachings of her husband are awe-compelling. She takes her place, by right, at his side, filling her sphere and its newly acquired honors with all the aplomb which could be expected from the companion and mate of her kingly husband. The lively dissension which took place as to the name by which the movement should be designated is both amusing and enlightening. When Elder Taylor proposed that the Society should be called the Nauvoo Benevolent Society, President Emma Smith asks for his purpose in substituting the word "Benevolent" for "Relief." The strictures of Sister Eliza R. Snow regarding the Benevolent Society are not without foundation. "The Washington Benevolent Society," referred to, as described by Benson J. Lossing, was "organized in 1812, composed wholly of men, to perpetuate the principle of Washington as set forth in his farewell address. The society had its origin in an effort to promote the waning fortunes of the old, now extinct, Federalist Party, under the guise of a social and benevolent organization. The internal graft and corruption became a public scandal and the vigorous but unpopular opposition to the War of 1812 nurtured by this society brought such a storm of indignation from the loyal and triumphant party of Jefferson that the society was entirely swept out of existence." This, no doubt, explains the antagonism felt by the patriotic "Mormon" women whose fathers and brothers had, many of them, fought in the War of 1812. Peace at any price was not popular with these brave and loyal American citizens. The keynote of this incident was struck by Elder John Taylor who said courteously to President Emma Smith, "I shall have to concede the point; your arguments are so potent that I cannot stand before them. I shall have to give way," to which the Prophet readily agreed. Here we have the very first instance, and one might say, about the last, of a public difference of opinion upon a title, but a far subtler point, that women were not only to have opinions on public questions and express them, but these opinions STORY OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 141 were to be considered and when reasonable and just they were to obtain. In all the discussion, however, there was the utmost courtesy extended and perfect order maintained. One notices also in this incident the dominant spirit of President Emma Smith and her unwillingness to concede a point. When the will, however strong and dominant, is made subservient to reason and justice what a weapon for good it becomes. But how close to the precipice of self-destruction does such a will often lead its possessor! The heart must seek counsel of the head or the result is disaster. Another significant fact recorded in these first minutes is that the Society was declared organized by a Prophet of the living God, with a president, counselors and other governing officers. Thus, upon the foundation of revelation and of the authority of the Priesthood, was this first of all modern woman's organized institutions founded in these times. The Prophet offered a five dollar gold piece with which to commence the charity funds of the Society, stating that hereafter all he gave to the poor should go through the channels of the Society. What unusual thoughts must have filled the hearts of those women when that meeting closed and they looked into each other's eyes and realized that however inadequately or feebly, they were the humble instruments chosen to begin a wonderful work for women, greater, more comprehensive and more awe-inspiring than any previous sex movement in the world's history. Seen through the reflected vision of their Prophet, some of them must have guessed at the varied scope and marvelous activities for womankind which would grow out of this great movement. To summarize the results it may be noted that not only were the worthy emotions of benevolence and charity and love which are, after all, so much a part of the normal woman's heart, to be cultivated and given expression, but women were also to learn how to govern in a public capacity through governing themselves. They were to acquaint themselves with the best rules of public procedure and to conduct all of their assemblies according to parliamentary usage, vivified by the divine inspiration which would come with the time and the place. They were to learn through these public activities that wider balance and poise, of judgment and decision which had only been granted them in the narrow confines of their home life. Hitherto unused faculties were to be discovered and set in operation by the women of the Church. Household machinery must be adjusted to permit these public activities to continue weekly and sometimes daily in their demands upon the Society members. Husbands, fathers, and children were 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to learn that wives, mothers and daughters were individuals and were to be counted in the social system as intricate parts of the body politic. They were to achieve opinions not based upon personal bias nor upon individual affection. Their voice would unquestionably be heard upon matters of public moment; not the voice of one woman, but the voice of an organized body who considered matters and formed intelligent opinions concerning public activities. The women of the Church had done this incidentally, now they were to do it collectively and under authority. Who should study the science of government if not a woman who governs all men until they are able, through growth and maturity, to govern themselves and each other? The mother sits as judge and jury in every domestic trial, the husband and father acting usually as the supreme court of appeals, only when cases are beyond her ability and jurisdiction; so that she of all others in the world should study the science of that which is her daily practice and through so much of which she stumbles unwittingly until experience teaches her wisdom through bitter lessons. And this science of government was now to be hers not only in its limited domestic sense, but in that broader world-field which would permit her to sit as queen of a world by the side of her husband when he became the Adam and king of that world which would be theirs to create and fill with their spirit-children. Impossible to conceive with our mortal limitations all that this prospect opened before the human vision, but there on the 17th of March, 1842, the first duly organized body composed only of women, in modern times, and in ancient times so far as we know, was founded and completely equipped to begin official and public life for womanhood in this generation by that Prophet, Seer and Revelator, Joseph Smith. All honor to his name! Babe of Mine. Lucy Wright Snow. Oh, babe of mine, let me draw near to thee; Let me inhale the perfume of thy purity; Thou art a gift. Oh, gift divine, A part of heaven  sweet babe of mine. Thou art a gift from Him that giveth all; Oh, blessed gift! God-given with Adam's fall. And in my hour of weariness and strife, The power of thy sweet innocence doth soothe and bless my life. 'Tis like I hear the Savior say anew  God's Kingdom is made up of such as you.