[Vol24 | December 1937 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature for Missions]

Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH Lesson 6 REVIEW AND Discussion or Lessons 1-5 N lessons 1 to 5 we have briefly sketched the lite and work of five noble women. They were born in five different countries?one each in Germany, Switzerland, Piedmont, Wales and the United States. They all went to Utah and spent their lives in the Church, each raising a very creditable family. In this respect they were very much alike. These women were chosen for these lessons because they were typical of the mothers in the Church, and to show that they have many ennobling qualities in common, notwithstanding their different nationalities. Nobility, like virtue, love, honesty, etc. Is the same wherever it is found. Acceptance of the Gospel and living its principles make people much alike?a fact that found a demonstration in the people who pioneered Utah and adjacent areas in neighboring States. Among these people there were no class distinctions, no national distinctions. They were all brothers and sisters, even though they came from many different countries. This fact they demonstrated in the way they treated each other. We believe the home is the unit upon which the Church is built as well as the Nation. And so the Church stands for the home and for every virtue that contributes to its sanctity and strength. Most important among the factors that make a home is, of course, the mother. There could hardly be a real home without a good mother. Hence, in the eyes of the Church, motherhood and the rearing of children is the noblest work of women. So marriage is encouraged, but relations of the sexes outside of marriage is condemned. Every child is enitled to be born in legal wedlock. Motherhood of the type illustrated by the five women studied is the kind for which the Church stands. It is this kind that furnishes any woman with her brightest crown and insures her God's everlasting love. In some of the lessons mention was made of the coming to Utah of Johnson's Army, of the move "to the South," ete. A further word relative to this matter might be in order. When Brigham Young led his people to the Salt Lake Valley, they were directed by Church authority. However, they realized that a civil government must be set up, which they wanted done under the authority of the United States as soon as possible. At the time the Valley was Mexican soil. But war was on between the United States and Mexico, and 500
Mormon men, known as the Mormon Battalion, marched as a unit of the United States Army across the southern part of the country to California and took possession. So when the Pioneers arrived in the Salt Lake Valley, they hoisted the American flag. When peace was made between the United States and Mexico in 1848, all of the western part of the country was ceded to the United States. In March, 1849, a political convention was held in Salt Lake City, and the United States Congress was petitioned to organize the Territory of Deseret. A Constitution was adopted, and a provisional government set up. But it was not until September, 1850, that Congress made a law organizing the Territory glg of Utah. President Millard Fillmore appointed Brigham Young to be the first Governor. Other officers were also appointed, most of them non- "Mormons" sent from the East. Everything moved along fairly smooth for awhile. But at length some of the Federal officers became disgruntled and returning East told bitter falsehoods about the way the "Mormons" treated them and accused the people of being in rebellion against the authority of the United States. In 1857, President James Buchanan was led to believe that conditions were so bad that a new Governor must be sent to Utah, accompanied by an army to put down the rebellion. Without making any investigation to find out the truth of the charges, President Buchanan appointed Alfred Cumming to succeed Brigham Young as Governor and ordered General Johnston to take an army of 2500 men to go with Governor Cumnung. Thus began "the Utah War." President Young knew there would be no trouble when the facts were known. In those days there was no telegraph lines from Utah to the East and travel and the mails were slow. It was July 24, 1857, when the news that the army was coming first reached Governor Brigham Young. He was up in the mountains with two to three thousand of the people celebrating the tenth anniversary of the coming of the Pioneers. The news produced consternation. Why the army was coming no one knew. But the Saints knew what had happened to them in Missouri and IIlinois when troops were sent against them. It was easy for them to imagine why troops were coming again. They knew that base falsehoods were circulating about them in the East.
President Young was still Utah's Governor. No official notice that he was supplanted reached him. Alfred Cumming would bring that notice when the army made it possible for him to come in safety. In any case Governor Young would continue to serve until his successor qualified. Governor Young immediately sent messengers to Washington asking for an investigation and the delay of the coming of the army until after the investigation was made.
Space will not permit a further recital of this story. But suffice it to say Governor Young ordered the territorial militia to block the canyons and keep out the army through the winter of 1857-58.
This the militia did. Governor Cumming, a fair-minded man, was invited to come with a personal escort only. He came, was courteously received, learned the truth, and reported to the President.
Then the army entered peacefully, marched through Salt Lake City and went into camp forty miles southwest of the city. But the move "to the South" was made to get the people away so the homes could be burned, if the army began to fight. The "Utah War" was ended without any fighting. But "Buchanan's blunder," as the affair is sometimes called, cost the United States Government several millions of dollars.
Incidentally it may be said Commander Johnston returned East and became a prominent General in the Confederate Army during the Civil War. The enemies of the Church who brought on the "Utah War" wanted to destroy the Church. In Lesson 4, we learned that Sister Melissa said the coming of the army proved to be '"'a blessing in disguise." The Lord overrules.: LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions for Discussion 1.
What qualities of character are essential to nobility? 2.
Show that Sisters Huefner, McKay, Schwendiman, Davis and Barker were noble women. 3.
State what you like best in each woman. 4.
Point out that each woman had an undaunted faith in the Lord. 5.
Name what you think was the greatest trial of faith experienced by each woman. 6. How do you reconcile tribulations with the love of God? 819 7. It is sometimes said, "the Lord must have a tried people.? Why do you believe this to be true? 8. How were the Utah Pioneers tried? 9.
Tell briefly about the "Utah War." (a) Its cause. (b) Its purpose. (c) How it ended.: 10.
Tell why the Church (a) Advocates marriage and a home. (b) Believes the Church as well as the Nation must be built upon the home. Child Guidance Lesson 6 PERSONALITY ADJUSTMENTS HE happiness of the child, which is the greatest concern of every conscientious mother, depends upon how he values himself. He is happy if he feels he can do his tasks well and that he is really good for something, and unhappy if he is always the loser in the games and if he fails persistently in whatever he attempts to do. The value he puts upon himself changes with his various experiences. As the child grows up, he has shifting roles to play in the drama of life. He is successful at one task when competing with one individual and painfully unsuccessful when doing something else with stiffer competition.
Striving for selfrespect is his greatest concern, but so is it of his competitors.
Someone must be loser in every competition. The loser's self-hood depreciates with each failure, as the winner's value of himself increases with each triumph.
Shifting of self-feeling takes place with almost every new undertaking of the child, His judgments as to his value gradually crystallize into an attitude that may stubbornly resist change. As the child becomes more convinced of his inferiority, he develops, in some cases, an emotional group of ideas about himself which is commonly called an inferiority complex. We shall devote the lesson following this one to a more detailed discussion of this topic. Our purpose here is to describe some common ways the child adjusts to his feelings about himself?what he does about it when he feels inferior or unsuccessful.
First of all, when a child has a feeling of inadequacy or inferiority, he may retreat from the struggle as a temporarily satisfying substitute for success. Day-dreams about himself as a suffering hero or martyr, or as a conquering hero, often take the place of real success and are the most common retreat or escape from reality found among children.
There are delicate children who are unable to compete on a physical basis with 820 normal children, but who take great delight in day-dreaming about acts of great strength, or who spend much time reading tales of daring and adventure. To withdraw from tasks that bring none of the pleasures of success is perfectly normal and sensible, provided the child withdraws in order to enter into some other acceptable activity where success is possible.
Truancy from school is common among dull children because the tasks set for normal children bring no reward to the dull child. If the dull child is not shown something acceptable that he can do successfully, he is likely to substitute daredevil or sneaky delinquent acts for the satisfactions of which he is robbed because the school work is not suitable for his mental level.
Some very modest, shy, and withdrawn children suffer severely from their inability to compete with their group.
Withdrawal because of failure in one kind of activity may lead the child to retreat from all activity and to gain his satisfactions entirely from an unreal world which can be more easily constructed to his own liking than can the real world. The child who refuses to play with others or to enter into the activities normal for his age should be regarded as a mental hygiene problem and should be given careful study. A second type of substitute for success, or means of patching up injuries to one's self-regard, is to shift the blame to another person or to make excuses to justify the failure.
This is called rationalization, which means the manufacturing of justifications for doing what we want to do or what we have done.
This tendency may become so serious that we not only deceive others, but ourselves as well, as to the real reasons for our acts. The fox that could not reach the grapes and excused his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE inability with, "Well, they are sour anyway,' was rationalizing. A child is trying to project or transfer his failure on to others when he tattles about his older brother as his mother scolds him for something he has done himself. The convenience of being able to play sick helps many a child, and adult, around an unpleasant situation.
This behavior originates from motives similar to those back of rationalizing. The danger of evasions of this kind is that they may deceive the person who makes them and sidetrack him from facing his difficulty, and thereby handicap him in making a more intelligent adjustment. For the moment, evasion may relieve the strain on one's self-respect; but it does not make one efficient for meeting future difficulties.
Projections of blame, rationalization, and evasions of other sorts usually indicate that the person recognizes somewhere something inadequate in himself. A person from poor social background may feel inferior socially and project this feeling into snobbish acts. "Running down" our competitors is another common compensation for our own feeling of inferiority.
Children with a certain temperament do not withdraw from reality and retreat into a world of daydreams and fantasy when they fail. But rather they "fly into" it.
They become aggressive, boisterous, overbearing, and are inclined to bully.
They make a great stir wherever they go in order to distract people from seeing their inferiority. The bully on the school grounds is frequently the laggard in the class room. He substituies aggressive behavior for scholastic success.
Extreme cruelty to animals or other children may have its roots in frustration and feelings of inferiority.
This kind of conduct is called compensation. It LESSON DEPARTMENT means substitution of what one can do well for what one cannot do well, or substitution of a satisfying way of doing for an unsatisfying way. The need for compensation always arises from a sense of inferioritv, and the compensation is aimed at building up one's importance in his own eyes, no matter whether the conduct is good in the eyes of others or not.
Compensation for feelings of inferiority is to be discouraged when the substitute conduct is an undesirable kind. The dull bully makes the wrong kind of compensation. To compensate is the intelligent thing to do when the substitute is socially acceptable. The girl with a homely face may compensate by cultivating charming manners and a good disposition.
This is a desirable kind of compensation.
Many of our great geniuses have had feelings of inferiority which drove them to extreme effort in some other line in order to overcome those feelings.
Napoleon is said to have been called a "little runt" during his boyhood and to have been influenced in his career by feelings of physical inferiority. The Kaiser is said to have had a crippled arm which affected his whole career. The blind, such as Helen Keller, sometimes exert extreme effort and succeed in compensating for their handicap and gain a feeling of self-value through excellence in a field in which they are not so handicapped. Alfred Adler. The originator of the notion of inferiority complex, goes so far as to say that almost all compensation has its origin in feeling of inferiority over some physical organ or capacity.
Another type of personality adjustment is called repression.
When a child has committed an act which is disapproved by his parents, frequently a sex act, he may "push it 821 out of his mind" because it is repugnant to his own conscience.
This attempt to forget, or put out of mind, an unpleasant thought is called repression.
When a conflict occurs in the mind of the child between his better self and what he has done, he is likely to cover up the thought and may actually forget it.
Feelings of guilt may remain, however, and his self-regard is lowered because of a lingering remorse of which he may not be clearly conscious. He will not talk about these matters, either because they are too unpleasant or because he no longer knows them consciously after they are completely repressed.
Recent theories lead us to think, however, that repressed or submerged ideas continue to influence the character of the child.
They are often the basis of deep feelings of inferiority. The child may compensate for these feelings by becoming on the surface very prudish and overly righteous. He may fight his own gitilt by preaching to others and taking undue concern over their moral welfare.
This condition is frequently found in adolescents who have violated the moral code in some way. Too strong teaching about sinfulness of certain acts in the sight of God and man causes much repression with the resulting personality difficulty in the child's adjustments.
Some modern authorities think it would be wiser to always speak of mistakes, and drop the idea of sins.
There is little doubt that teachings which impress the child with his sinfulness contribute a great deal to inferiority feelings.
Children might be willing to talk about their mistakes, but not about their sins.
Generally the best solution to the difficulties that arise from repressed ideas is to have the child "talk them out" if he can be induced to do so. 822
Usually this is a task which calls for an expert psychologist. The next lesson will be devoted to more practical suggestions on avoiding inferiority feelings through giving the child a carefully thought-out program through which he can succeed in satisfying his needs in proper ways. Personality adjustments spoken of in this lesson should make the parent aware of some ineffective ways a child may meet his frustrations. Recognition of the various means by which a child may attempt to escape from reality and to compensate for feelings of inferiority and failure should place the parent in a better position to help him to face his problems frankly and to make more intelligent solutions.
Problems For Discussion 1. Show how a crippled child's value of himself would likely be affected by other children nick-naming him "Crip." What two ways might he compensate for this feeling of inferiority? 2. Give an example from your experience of rationalizing. When does rationalizing become dangerous? 3. Show how day-dreaming is a retreat from reality. What is the usual cause? 4. How would you interpret some cases of bullying in the light of this lesson? 5. Give an example of an unwise and an example of a wise type of compensation for some feeling of inferiority.