[Vol24 | December 1937 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature L]

Literature Lesson 6 THE ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE IT may be somewhat of a surprise for many of our readers to find this book listed among biographies. However, the writer has felt that The Old Playhouse, called by Henry Miller "The Cathedral in the Desert," has a personality, is a personality.
Around it clung?around its memory still cling?some of the fondest recollections of cultural moments in the upward climb towards culture of an earnest and seeking people. The Old Playhouse was a temple builded to the arts in a day when life was somewhat rough and uncouth.
Hundreds of people who had left comfortable homes in communities of culture, found within its walls food for their hungering souls. George D. Pyper, author of this book and the last manager of the Old Playhouse, was born the very year in which excavation for the building began.
Those who believe in the guidance of the stars might easily hold the fact to be momentous that a theatre sprang up on his exact birthplace, the stage of what is now the Victory Theatre, Salt Lake City, being located where his cradle once stood.
Among his earliest recollections were those of the old Salt Lake Theatre.
Always he dreamed of some day being connected with the majestic building and what it stood for.
Early in his career Superintendent George D.
Pyper connected himself with musical organizations.
Possessing a sweet, lyric tenor voice, he became first tenor of a quartette which was in great demand. He also played leading roles in various operas presented in the Old Playhouse. But the joy of his life came when he was asked to become the manager of the theatre which he had adored all through his young manhood. For approximately thirty years George D.
Pyper was manager of the Playhouse and brought to Salt Lake City the finest road attractions to be found in the United States.
Some of the greatest actors and actresses that ever graced the American stage played behind the footlights of the beloved theatre. On October 20, 1928, the farewell entertainment was held in the old building whose doom had been sealed and whose beloved stage and walls and roof and proscenium would soon be no more.
Fortunately for all of us, George D. Pyper, who loved, the theatre with an abiding love, has given us "The Romance of an Old Playhouse."
This book we are to study in our next four lessons, including this one. "One day more than thirty years ago," said George D.
Pyper in his foreword, "Heber J. Grant, then owning a controlling interest in the Salt Lake Theatre, now President of  
From such a man who loved his work with a genuine and deep emotion came this book of a personality as real as that of a human being.
This is no mere story of a house, a building; it is a story of heartthrobs and a striving for artistic expression. George D.
Pyper argues that it is not strange that a people who had such dramatic experiences as those through which the Mormons passed should yearn for dramatic expression. He italicized these words: "Indeed, it is not strange that in this little town of Kirtland, Ohio, should have lived the fathers of some of the men and women who were to tread the stage of a wonderful playhouse to be built in a desert land thousands of miles away where then only Indians and wild animals roamed." In his first chapter, the author lists the names of many prominent families whose sons and daughters were intimately connected with the history of the Old Theatre.
Even from the very first, the Prophet Joseph fostered dramatic productions.
Here is another passage which Mr.
Pyper caused to be placed in italics: "He (Joseph Smith) fostered the drama by organizing a dramatic company and was foremost in encouraging the production of classical plays.". "Among the first and foremost of the Nauvoo actors," says the author, "and one who whetted the appetite of the Nauvoo people for good plays, was Thomas A. Lyne, a Philadelphia convert to the 'Mormon' religion."
This man, Lyne, had played with noted actors and upon his conversion to the Gospel, aided greatly 811 in fostering an appreciation for dramatic presentations. It is interesting to note that the Church drew to it the men and women it needed for its cultural expression. It drew its architects, its musicians, its painters, its poets, and even its actors.
Here in Nauvoo, George D.
Pyper argues, were planted the seeds which were to grow and flourish in the Old Playhouse. He italicizes this passage:; '"Lyne's productions (in Nauvoo) took such a hold on the community that Brigham Young, himself, played the part of the High Priest in 'Pizarro' with great success, assuming the role with real dignity." In mentioning the Drama of the Plains in his third chapter, the author calls attention to the fact that when the Saints left for the Rockies in April, 1846, "The practical mind of Brigham Young brought into the historic pilgrimage a company of men destined to take an active part in an Old Playhouse as yet undreamed of.
This was Captain William Pitt's Brass Band that had cheered the people in Nauvoo."
Where did this band come from? The author quoted Col. Thomas L. Kane: "The orchestra in service on the occasion of the departure from Winter Quarters astonished one by its numbers and fine drill. The story was told that an eloquent 'Mormon' missionary had converted its members in a body at an English town, a stronghold of the sect, and that they took up their trumpets, drums, and hautboys together, and followed him to America." Mr.
Pyper points to the fact that all of these streams of emigrants flowing into Great Salt Lake Valley furnished the background for the building of the Old Playhouse. The first plays produced in what is now Utah were presented in what 812 was known as the Old Bowery.
This took place in the year 1850, only three years after the Saints reached the valley, the first play being either "Robert Macaire" or "The Triumph of Innocence." The author is inclined to hold with those who believe _ "The Triumph of Innocence" was first. The point, though interesting, is not important. The important fact is that a play was presented in the Bowery in 1850. The first dramatic company was organized in Salt Lake City at the home of William Clayton in 1850 with such members as Hirum B. Clawson, James Ferguson, Philip Margetts, John Kay, Horace K. Whitney, Robert Campbell, Robert T. Barton, George D. Grant, Edmund Ellsworth, Henry Margetts, Edward Martin, William Glover, and William Clayton. "The ladies were: Miss Orum, Miss Judd, and Miss Mary Badlam." The Old Bowery was not very well suited to play production, therefore, in 1852
Social Hall was constructed as an amusement center. This building, which was located on the east side of State Street between South Temple and First South, served for a number of years as a theatre as well as an amusement center for other activities. Almost simultaneously, the Deseret Dramatic Association was organized superseding the original dramatic organization. The Social Hall was dedicated January 1, 1853. 'What this new auditorium lacked in capacity, was made up in warmth and spirit, for it was the loved center of Salt Lake's socials, meetings, plays, dances, banquets, for many years." For more than half a century this place was used by various groups and organizations and was an immediate forerunner of the Salt Lake Theatre. The first play produced in the historic building was on January 17, 1853, the play, "The Irish Lion," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE being the first offering. During the season of 1855-56, the following plays were produced: "Ingomar," "She Stoops to Conquer," "Rent Day," "Othello," "Luke the Laborer," "New Way to Pay Old Debts," "Richard III," "The Widow's Victim," "His Last Legs," "Loa of a Lover," "Sketches in India," "Perfection."' You will note that the list includes a number of the great plays of the world. In 1858
Johnston's Army marched into Utah. They passed through Salt Lake City and built a camp which they named Camp Floyd. In November of 1858 the Camp Floyd theatre, built by and for the soldiers, opened its doors. During the occupation of Utah by the soldiers the Camp Floyd theatre was the leading playhouse in the territory, the Saints being too worried and too much harassed by the presence of the army to give much attention to stage productions. Upon the withdrawal of the soldiers in 1860-61 the dramatic spirit awoke once more and a new theatre appeared in Salt Lake City. It was given the name of the Bowring Theatre, named for one of its chief founders, Henry Bowring. This was the first building in Utah which actually bore the name Theatre. It was after attending a performance in this theatre that the idea of building a playhouse began to take form. It was about that time that President Young used the famous expression: "The people must have amusement as well as religion." Hiram B. Clawson was instructed to negotiate for a site for a large playhouse. "The Cathedral in the Desert" was assured. Suggestions for Study 1. If it is available in your ward, you will find a sketch of the life of George D. Pyper in Vol. 37 of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Improvement Era. The article, which appeared in the February. 1934, Era, was written by Claire W. Noall. 2. Show that the Prophet Joseph Smith liked the drama. 3. Why was the conversion of Thomas Lyne important in this story of the Old Playhouse? 4. Discuss the statement made by Brigham Young: "The people must have amusement as well as religion." Was he right? Is this statement still true? 5. What agencies in your ward manage the amusements? Are they well managed? 6. Trace the movement which led 813 to the building of the Old Playhouse, from the days of Joseph Smith to 1861, the date of the starting of work on the theatre. 7. Describe George D. Pyper as you know him. 8. How welt has George D. Pyper given the antecedents of the Old Playhouse? 9. What is the meaning of the following, quoted from Chapter 8: "Judged from the present period, one would almost be led to believe that Johnston's Army was sent to Utah to assist the Saints in their recreational activity." How did the army assist? Social Service Lesson 6
Tue PayInG or Our Pusuic Bits Text: Civic Sociology; by Edward A. Ross, Chapter XXVII. FEW problems arouse public interest as quickly as that of paying for public expenses. The apathy toward public questions which is shown by large groups of people suddenly changes to interest when demands are made upon their pocketbooks.
Their interest, however is not always intelligently formulated.
Often it merely takes the shape of a defensive attitude toward paying for public services.
Since taxes play such an important part in the daily experiences of all citizens, it behooves every one to give thoughtful consideration to the matter.
This lesson will aim to accomplish two things: First, to help each individual to understand the chief services that are received in return for the expenditure of public money. Second, to develop an intelligent attitude toward the payment of taxes. The right of passing upon the merits of a given tax before it is levied is one of the sacred privileges of citizenship for which people have contested and even fought since the beginning of civilization. And rightly so, for no principle of representative government touches the sacred rights of liberty closer than that of taxation. The public credit is a very important source of strength and security to the nation; it should be cherished and guarded by all thoughtful citizens. The amounts of money involved are so large that the average person is bewildered at attempts to analyze the items; yet each citizen should show an_ intelligent interest in public bills.
Perhaps the outstanding characteristic of our public bills is the tremendous increase in the total amount during the last decade.
This vast increase in expenditure is due to the great increase of work being done 814 by each branch of government. To appreciate the services of the various branches it is first necessary to have in mind the various taxing divisions of government.
While each country has its own system there is marked similarity between the methods of taxation in the principal nations. In the United States each individual. Is subject to four or more separate taxing jurisdictions, each one of which usually seeks to solve its problems independently of the others.
These departments are: the Federal, the State, the County, and the Municipal governments; and often special districts also exist. The Federal government must levy and collect taxes for its work and activities. In doing so it largely ignores the work of other units in the system. As the services rendered increase, the money to be expended must correspondingly be augmented. In addition the State government strives to uphold its end of the manifold services required of it by increasing its share of revenue. The county government must be supported. And finally the special districts such as the school must garner their share of public moneys as integral parts of the taxing system.
Each jurisdiction has a difficult problem in its attempt to perform all of the services required of its limited revenues.
Although the individual is subject to the aggregate demands made upon him by all of these taxing authorities, the authorities themselves are unable to meet even what seems to be the minimum essentials in their departments.
Consequently it is not enough for good citizenship that a person content himself by paying his just share of the public bill, He has another obligation to meet in regard to the public treasuries.
Having paid his taxes, he owes it to himself and his community to take enough interest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in the way public money is used to see that it is spent honestly, efficiently, and for those causes which are most beneficial to the public welfare. For this purpose the budgets prepared by the different taxing units should be studied carefully and criticised before the expenditures are finally authorized. Any interested person may have a voice in such authorization.
Budgets for public receipts and expenditures are always submitted to public hearings before final adopion. At these hearings, citizens or their representatives have the privilege of expressing disapproval of any items in the budget. An enumeraion of a few of the services rendered will help to develOp appreciation for the great tasks of government.
Armies and navies have always been one of the principal items of Federal disbursement. The expenses of carrying on wars, of paying pensions resulting from war, and of maintaining the army and navy take at least three-fourths of the national income.
There is no present hope'of reducing this amount until the world takes a different attitude toward armaments. The various administrative departments of the national government each takes a large share of the remaining income. No one seems to be willing to have these services reduced. All people wish to have the highways improved, to have better waterways, more convenient postal service, greater safety through the regulation of commerce, more experimentation in the development of crops which are suitable to particular localities, the preservation of the forests, more productive strains of animals and poultry for farm purposes, and a greater utilization of natural resources for the benefit of all people.
Many other such projects could be enumerated, and the legitimacy of LESSON DEPARTMENT each seems to be justified as it in its own turn is considered and weighed. It may represent a large expenditure, but each need seems always to be essential to the continued well being and prosperity of the people. A new field which is just beginning to be developed for the good of the public is that of Social Insurance and Social Security.
These acts empower the government to levy a tax for insurance against unemployment and old age benefits.
Here again is an added service which increases the public bill, but no one seems to favor its elimination, or that of any single item to reduce the cost of its upkeep. In this case an already established taxing jurisdiction has been enabled to extend its power of taxation in which wages of both employers and employees are assessed for social benefits. The services which the State, the County, and the municipalities render are likewise increasing. In fact, most of the institutions which immediately touch the lives of the people are controlled by the State, County, and local city governments.
Most important among these should be mentioned the schools and the protective institutions which guard the lives and property of the people directly.
Local governments spend more for education than for any other purpose. Yet this institution cannot perform all of the tasks desirable for the well being of the people because of a shortage of funds.
Protection to person and property, improving of the highways, guarding public health, general government and charities also constitute heavy expenses. Hospitals, correctional institutions, recreation, and many miscellaneous items take large amounts of money for their support. In periods of unemployment, such as that recently experienced, chari- 815 ties call for a larger proportion of public money than in periods of prosperity. Of course self-respecting citizens should welcome release from charitable assistance as soon as the opportunity of regular work presents itself, but this unfortunately is not always the case, and taxation in their behalf continues.
Since local money is spent near at home where people can see the benefits that are derived from the disbursements there is less need for education to realize the value of such expenditures. It is easy for people to see how an extension of such services would be appreciated by all. For example, in an epidemic people are willing to increase the cost for public health; when the snow is deep they like greater road service, and when fire endangers property they advocate greater fire protection.
Schools are constantly in need of greater appropriations in order that youth might be better prepared to meet the demands of the economic and social world; and the reading public appreciates an extension of library facilities. And yet, even for these purposes, taxes are not always willingly paid. One must understand, however, that if he is to enjoy such privileges and benefits he must assume his share of the financial obligation.
Public enterprise is supported by the public purse. But the purse is made up by every earning ciizen.
Each should learn to count the cost and weigh the value of every undertaking whose source of revenue is in the general coffers. And moreover, he should be willing to investigate the disbursements if he expects later to voice his opinion concerning them. The problem of justice in taxation is a subject too broad for discussion here. However, it is well to keep in mind a maxim of taxation spoken long ago by Adam Smith, an early 816 economist. He has given many catons of taxation, one of which is: "The subjects of every state ought to contribute toward the support of the government as nearly as possible in proportion to their respective abilities."
While many factors enter into the capacity of any individual to pay for public service, the cognizance of this principle will help him to maintain an intelligent and just attitude toward tax payments. The obligation to contribute an amount which is commensurate to one's income should be considered uo more than fair. If taxation seems to supersede 'justice, investigation and protest should be carried out along proper channels. In general the people of the United States have similar burdens to the citizens of the principal nations of the world. A comparison with Great Britain and France will serve as an example. However, it should be remembered that no comparison is entirely valid because of different living standards, average wages earned, taxable wealth, and many other factors. However, in Great Britain 80 per cent of the taxes are levied by the national government, in France 70 per cent, and in the United States 33 per cent. The remaining part is levied by the local governments. The average per capita tax for these countries is as follows: United States $78.14, France $75.80, and Great Britain $93.45. On an estimated population of 129 million for 1937 it is anticipated that the per capita tax burden for the United States will be over $95.00.
These figures indicate that there is not a great deal of difference between the obligations of the average citizen of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE these nations in paying the public bill. But the United States apparently will be subject to a high increase for the curretit year.
There is greater difference between various states in this country than between the nations compared, as shown by the following table of representative states: State Per Capita Per Capita Total State Tax Federal Tax Tax New York se $28.74 $130.74
Illinois 28.74 96.74
Washington 46.00 28.74 75.43
Arkansas 24.00 28.74 52.94 It is evident that no matter where a person lives he is constantly taking part in the making and paying of public bills. Through his own interest in the problem he should understand the chief services received in return for the public money expended. Furthermore, through study and an active interest in the work of the taxing authorities he should maintain an intelligent attitude toward tax payment. Only by so doing is the public at large assured of justice in taxation. Activities 1. Secure a local tax notice and note the purpose of the various assessments and the relative amount of each. Compare the amounts for state, county, and city purposes. 2. Point out as many ways as possible in which national taxes are levied and collected. Tax estimates in this article are quoted from "Taxes, English, French, American," by Edward C. MacDowell; Current History, May, 1936; United States federal taxes are for 1935; state and local taxes for 1933, and for Great Britain and France for 1934.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 817