[Vol24 | December 1937 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Little Moments of Hoggan]
doing some of the lovely things that we have waited all through the years to do? Let us put by our first coin, today, towards the purchase of that beautiful picture that will give us inspiration every time we look at it; that piece of handiwork, that will give play to our creative ability; the inspired book, that will satisfy our heart's longing; the sheet of music, that will be a singing melody to our soul. Let us find time for a moving picture of rare beauty or bubbling mirth, now and then. Let us make a place on our program for the lovely lessons that are prepared for our inspiration and spiritual growth. Is there not an odd hour now and then, that can be spent with some relative or friend who is shut in and lonely? There are numberless joyous adventures, beautiful soul-stirring experiences that may be had for the taking, if we will find time for them. It requires time for companionship with our children, for the games and songs and picture books that sweeten the life of the small child. It takes time for comradeship with our fellows, for communion with our God. Bulwer Lytton said: "There is no unbelief. 'Whoever plants a seed beneath the sod And waits to see it push away the clod Trusts in God." Man has an upward reaching for communion with the divine, a deep desire for fundamental truths, an instinctive yearning for the beautiful. Should we not satisfy these demands of the soul? It takes time to enjoy the beauties of nature, to read the lovely books that enrich life, to build up an inner spiritual strength, a susceptibility to divine guidance, a faith that knows It takes time to
"Take Time To Live," by Gove Hambidge, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York.
LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY
live. Of course it does. But what is life, after all, if it fails to yield us joy and peace and satisfaction? God meant our lives to be radiant, beautiful, glorious. Did not He declare, "Man is that he might have joy"?
THE gift of all gifts that is most to be desired, is the everlasting Gospel of the Master. "It is the power of God unto salvation." When we walk in the darkness of despondency it is a light to our feet. In the midst of turmoil and confusion it calms our fears. When we are deep in sorrow it comforts and heals our breaking hearts. In the hour of defeat, it gives us wings for new flight. Surely nothing else in life is so precious, so entirely worth cherishing. And yet we become so absorbed with the trivial demands of every day, that we sometimes forget. Even when we are making preparations for that holy day, the anniversary of His birth, we are beset by many cares. Our festive red candles send out Christmas cheer to the guest and the stranger alike. But do we take time to watch the soft light of a lone white taper, the light that breathes
791
a spirit of prayer, of solemn gratitude for His supreme sacrifice for all men? His gospel is the scintillating candle of truth whose rays will light our feet into paths of peace. Are we too busy to take time for the glorious blessings it holds? Are we too hurried to kneel in prayer, to look up at the stars in the silent night? Surely, on this day of days, we should take time for these blessed joys. This excerpt from Grace Noll Crowell's beautiful poem, "Leisure," is a challenge to each of us in our hurried preparations for His natal day:
"I shall have leisure?I shall go out alone From my roof and my door, I shall not miss the silver silence of stars As I have before, And Oh; perhaps if I stand there very still And very long, I shall hear what the clamor of living has kept from me: The angel's song!"
"Leisure," by Grace Noll Crowell, Published in Good Housekeeping Magazine, New York City. Special arrangement has been made with the authors and publishers, for the use of the excerpts in this article.
