Mary Connelly Kimball By May Booth Talmage
THE glorious life mission of Mary Connelly Kimball closed on Wednesday, November 24, 1937, after a little more than three score years spent in the field. Her Honorable Release bore the signature of the Great Master, and her lovely spirit was permitted to go home?home to the God who gave it; home to the mother who bore her in the flesh; home to the husband, blessed and beloved, to whom she was joined in holy matrimony not "until death doth you part," but for "Time and for all Eternity."
Perhaps to none save those who have served as missionaries in our Church, can the words "Honorable Release" convey their full significance. To finish one's mission with honor is to achieve the highest ambition of any missionary who accepts the responsibility of his assignment as a sacred trust. Those who know Mary Kimball best, know full well that to her life's mission was no less sacred. Her conception of the meaning and purpose of life was clearly conveyed in an article she wrote entitled "Work," published in Volume 12 of The Young Women's Journal, the closing quotations of which run thus:
"We are not here to play, to dream, to drift, There is hard work to do, and hands to lift. Shun not the struggle, face it, 'Tis God's gift."
"Arise, therefore, and be doing, and the Lord be with thee."
Throughout the years, Mary's life has exemplified the dominant thought here expressed. There has ever pulsed through her veins the desire to do more than her share of the world's work, to help lift the loads of others, to accept life's struggles as a veritable gift from God. We who are left with aching hearts and tear dimmed eyes, as Saints in foreign lands are left when times of parting come, still can rejoice that another mission is completed gloriously and honorably.
IN writing of Mary my purpose is not to write a biographical sketch, but to pay a heart tribute to one whose friendship has been one of life's choicest gifts. May I paraphrase my own words written to our beloved Dr. Karl G. Maeser: Gladly would we lay at the altar of her memory a tribute worthy of the theme, but there are
 
"thoughts that lie too deep for tears" or words. My association with Mary Connelly Kimball has been of the closest for upward of two score years. It began when she came as a girl with the Mutual officers of the 21st Ward to attend the first course in guide work offered by the General Board to the stake and ward officers of the old Salt Lake Stake. What a help and an inspiration she was at that early age, with her brilliant mind, her spirituality and her willingness to contribute to the fine discussions of that pioneer work! Her qualities of leadership, plainly evident then, developed continuously until the time came when one felt she belonged to that company of great ones whom Carlyle designated as "living light-fountains which it is good and pleasant to be near. The light which enlightens.... Not as a kindled lamp only, but rather as a natural luminary shining by the gift of Heaven; a flowing light-fountain, as I say, of native and original insight,.... In whose radiance all souls feel that it is well with them."
HOW blessed were Mary's friends whose privilege it was to be often within the radiance of her presence! My admiration deepened for her splendid mentality through many years together on the General Board of Y. W. M. I. A. Her work on this board was done with a painstaking thoroughness that left need neither for explanation nor excuse. She was never one to shirk the long and arduous journeys to conventions nor to complain of the hardships ofttimes attendant. She had the rare gift of tact and sympathetic understanding which put any hostess at her ease. Her attendance at conventions was eagerly sought, both because of the uplift of her pleasing personality and the satisfaction her efficient help afforded to the workers who were hungry for the riches of her well stored mind. This long training through ward, stake and general associations, proved a fitting preparation for the work on the General Board of the parent woman's organization?the Relief Society. In both the Y. W. M. I. A. and Relief Society groups she was the capable, efficient editor of their respective magazines, yet shared to the fullest the regular arduous activities of these international governing boards.
DURING the years of teaching in the district and high schools of Salt Lake City, she adorned her profession and was not alone admired and respected by her co-workers but won the affection of all who were fortunate enough to be her pupils. In addition to these positions of responsibility and trust, Mary found time for things purely social and cultural. As a valued and valuable member of the Ensign and the Authors' Clubs her contributions to each were unexcelled, and her charming hospitality proved another evidence of her versatile and abundant gifts. In the language of one great writer concerning another, "One wonders just what she might not have been or done had occasion required."
ONE hesitates to express a choice as to which of her talents stood first. Surely to win the love of those in the school room?and to become eminent in an honored profession is no mean ac-
MARY CONNELLY KIMBALL
5
complishment. To be "adored" by girls and women in all departments of our Church organizations and to influence them to strive for splendid womanhood is an achievement greatly to be desired. To sway the hearts of young and old by tongue and pen to righteous living, is a precious gift vouchsafed to few. Yet, great as were all these gifts and talents, it was not for these that my deepest love went out to my friend. Her outstanding attribute was her absolute faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, as evidenced by her unswerving adherence to, and observance of the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. Her almost unparalleled affection for and devotion to her mother during the latter's lifetime endeared her to all. Their beautiful companionship was the embodiment of one's highest ideals, and furnished a masterpiece to hang in the gallery of one's memory. To her father she was ever the unselfish, considerate, intelligent daughter that made her companionship with him the joy of his life as he is often wont to say. She evidenced always unusual tenderness and strong affection for children in general and for Agnes in particular. The beautiful romance that surrounded her courtship and marriage, rather late in life brought a warm glow to many hearts. The esteem and affection existing between the two seemed almost akin to worship during the all too short period before her distinguished husband received his final call. The courage and fortitude Mary showed through the severe ordeals of parting with her mother and her husband were truly heroic.
LOYAL and devoted to her friends, she was literally as "true as steel." How often during the years has she brightened my home with blossoms from her lovely garden, or by a radiant smile or word of cheer left uplift and encouragement far greater than she knew. One friend said to me, "Since my husband's death I could scarcely have endured my loneliness had it not been for Mary?she calls me every day to learn if all is well." What devotion from one whose busy life made every moment precious! Mary is loved for the joy she took in serving others, for her modest unassuming nature, which testified so strongly of her greatness, of her integrity, her dependability, her tactfulness and of her desire always to say kind and helpful things. One of her last requests was that she be not eulogized. These are but the sincere expressions of a friend whose life has been richly blessed through her companionship.
THE funeral services were as she had wished and planned, unostentatious, yet, with a quiet dignity characteristic of herself. If spirits are permitted to hover near until the final rites are over, I am sure Mary's beauty loving soul rejoiced in the exquisite daintiness of her clothing and in the perfection of the blossoms that bore their silent messages of comfort to her stricken loved ones. The heartfelt tributes expressed by her file leader President Louise Y. Robison, by Dr. Middleton, President Spencer Kimball, Dr. John A. Widtsoe and President Heber J. Grant could not with truth and justice have been less glowing, and yet one marvels that in the span of three score years
 
one could have earned encomiums so numerous, and of such high order.
In reading the 23rd Psalm and extending his sympathy and blessing, Bishop Joel Richards showed rare sympathy and appreciation of Mary's worth as a member of his ward.
The beautiful music conveyed its own sweet message of hope and consolation, and when the last strains were heard one could imagine Mary's spirit waving a loving farewell, as with her radiant smile she echoed the Master's words: "In my Father's house are many mansions,... I go to prepare a place for you that where I am ye may be also."
MARY By Annie Wells Cannon
Serene she lay, soft-pillowed in chiffon Sweetly silent, so fair to look upon. The scented charm of flowers expressed Her quiet passing to eternal rest. We wonder if you knew when here How very much we loved you, dear.