We Resolve By Myrtle Wentworth
MARGOT stared resentfully; first at the figures in her check book and then at the row of figures she had been juggling back and forth on a sheet of paper. It was no use. No matter what sort of mathematics she used, the result remained inexorably the same. Her account was overdrawn exactly thirty-seven dollars and eighty-two cents and Perry would be dreadfully annoyed. The fact that Christmas, with its attendant expenditures, was in the immediate background would make no difference whatever. She had been given fifty dollars for the holiday "racket", as Perry called it, and had been expected to stay within that amount. She glanced over at the divan where Perry lay peacefully sleeping off the excitement of the New Year's celebration. There was no use asking for a new black lace dinner dress now. The bank statement would be here bright and early in tomorrow's mail and she would get her customary "curtain" lecture and make the usual promises to try and do better in the future. She shrugged her shoulders. Well, there was no need worrying about it. All the figuring in the world couldn't change that balance now, and anyway, Perry was an awfully good sort and would end up by forgiving her with a couple of kisses. She turned the paper over and began amusing herself making some New Year's resolutions. That was the timely thing to be doing and she would make some for Perry too while she was about it.
When she had compiled what she considered an excellent list, she went over to the divan and shook Perry by the shoulders. "Wake up, Lazy," she cried, releasing his shoulders for a more effective grasp of his curly brown locks. He partly opened his eyes and stared at her belligerently. "What for?" He demanded, "Isn't it a holiday and wasn't I up half the night?"
"It is and you were, but that isn't any reason for sleeping all through the day. And by the way, Perry, don't ever again let anyone persuade you to wear a paper cap. Ordinarily you look very intelligent, but?well, paper caps just aren't your style."
"Thanks," yawned Perry, "I'll remember," settling down to slumber again as if the whole matter were closed. But Margot was bent on "high resolve" and was not to be thwarted so easily.
"No, you don't," she cried, seizing the pillow from behind his head. "You are going to wake up and make some New Year's resolutions."
"Let's wait 'till tomorrow."
"No, indeed. 'Never put off 'till tomorrow what you can do today.' I'm glad I thought of that."
"You didn't think of it. Aristotle or Benjamin Franklin or somebody else did."
"I mean I'm glad I thought of adding it to your resolutions."
"My resolutions"? Perry was practically awake by now. "Do you mean to say that you are making New Year's resolutions for me"?
 
"Well?I have some suggestions," Margot admitted. "You may add to them, of course, but I believe that I can give you some extremely good help on the subject."
"Thanks," said Perry, with doubtful enthusiasm, "What about your own?"
"Oh, I have a lovely list made up for myself," Margot answered, her dark eyes sparkling. "Just listen. I resolve to get up one half hour earlier mornings?"
"Hooray," Perry interrupted, adding, "So that my husband will not have to fry his own eggs."
Margot ignored the interruption. "Second?Watch my diet more carefully."
"I trust your resolutions apply to yourself alone."
"Don't be alarmed?they do. You shan't be asked to give up a single piece of pie." Glancing back at her paper, she continued, "To do no more gossiping."
"My dear child, you needn't give up all pleasure. Besides," Perry added irrelevantly, "you're much too pretty to spend your time making resolutions."
"Thanks for the last remark. I'm ignoring the first?I suspect fine irony," and Margot went on, scarcely glancing up from her paper. "To cultivate a more cheerful disposition."
"Good girl," was Perry's enthusiastic comment. "Now, if you'll just add 'To always remember to put the lid back on the toothpaste and not to linger on the telephone when your husband is trying to call you from the office,' we'll say it's an excellent job."
"Done," assented Margot cheerfully. "Now shall we start on yours?"
"I resent your air of 'Now this is really important' and besides, I didn't say that I was making any."
"Oh, but you are. It gives one such a noble feeling to make resolutions. I feel better already. But if you don't want to be bothered, I'll make them and you can keep them." She picked up a clean sheet of paper and started with a flourish, reading each item aloud as she wrote it down.
"First: I resolve to be more careful about letting the dog in the house when Margot has just scrubbed the kitchen floor."
"O. K. And we'll pin a copy up where the dog can see it too."
Margot ignored his facetiousness and went on. "Second: I will not bring anyone home to dinner without phoning about it. At least fifteen minutes in advance."
"But darling?you know I just met?"
"Yes," she interrupted, "I know. You just met Harry Jarvis on the street and he was in town for the day only, and it was three flights by elevator back to the telephone. You've been forgiven for that time and the time before, but remember that for the future, you've resolved to do differently." She drew a deep breath and continued, "I will pick up my own pajamas every morning."
"No fair," shouted Perry, "I have for a week."
"Yes, but I've reminded you."
"Very well, from now on I'm a reformed character. Don't you think that three resolutions are enough at one time?"
"Well," said Margot virtuously, "I made four."
"So you did," assented Perry, picking up her paper. "What's all this?" he asked, as his eye caught the figures on the other side.
"Just my accounts," she answer-
WE RESOLVE
9
ed, reaching for the paper with seeming casualness.
PERRY, who knew from long experience that there was seldom anything very casual about Margot's accounts, hung on to the paper. He stared at the figures for a long time and then asked in steely tones, "Am I right in thinking that you have gone nearly forty dollars over your allowance for last month?"
"I?it looks that way," she admitted in a 'just as well have it out now' tone of voice.
"But didn't we agree?"
"Yes," Margot interrupted, "we did. But Julia sent something at the last minute and I had to spend more money on Adele because it was to do for a wedding present as well and?"
"I know," said Perry wearily, "but it's the same every month. It's really getting serious. If we're ever going to save enough money to buy a home, put the twins through college and do some of the other things we've planned, we'll have to start watching our step right now." He turned the paper back again and glanced idly at Margot's whimsical resolutions and then looked suddenly back again at his pretty dark-haired wife. "How's for chucking these resolutions you've made and taking on just one of my making instead?" he asked.
"Let's hear it," was Margot's non-committal reply.
"Could you possibly resolve to stay within your monthly allowance and then stick to it?"
Margot tossed her head. "Of course I can, and I'll do it providing you match it with one of your own."
"Done," cried Perry. "You make it and I'll keep it, even if it means taking that cold shower daily that you think would be good for my constitution."
"Oh no," laughed Margot. "It's nothing so Spartan as that. It's merely that I would appreciate having you home to dinner on time instead of anywhere from fifteen minutes to three hours late."
"Agreed?and the bargain sealed with a kiss?no, with two kisses," said Perry. "Eight hours is long enough for a man to work anyway."
MARGOT did not find it nearly so easy as she had anticipated to fulfill her end of the bargain. Her bank account had a persistent habit of reaching the disappearing point about a week before the end of the month. It seemed that the shops took a malicious delight in featuring highly desirable bargains just at that particular time and as she and Perry had agreed long ago not to have any charge accounts, Margot was forced to look over the pages of alluring newspaper ads with a yearning eye and then determinedly thrust the paper out of sight. She often wondered why her friends took this particular time of the month to invite her down town to lunch and a movie. They didn't seem nearly so attentive at the first of the month when she was amply supplied with the means to pay for these diversions. Each month she determined that she would hold on to sufficient money to see her comfortably through to another pay day and each month little unforeseen expenses came up that simply had to be met. A friend would come in from out of town who must be entertained, or small Bobby's shoes would wear out when she
 
had counted on them lasting fully another six weeks. But no matter what came up, Margot drew her purse strings tight. She decided grimly that she would go barefoot?which she meant quite literally, before she would be the first to break the New Year's resolutions.
SHE was not altogether delighted when Georgia Varney called her one bright afternoon in late April and offered to pick her up and take her to the Rossiter auction sale. She knew that she would be tempted almost beyond endurance by the lovely things there and she knew equally well that she wouldn't dare to spend one dollar of the six which made up her slender balance at the bank. Her curiosity to see the home, which was one of the finest in the city, prevailed, however, and when Georgia arrived, she climbed into the smart blue roadster determined to come back empty handed as far as the Rossiter belongings were concerned.
"What would you like?" asked Georgia, as they started out.
"I'd like a Louis XXVII bedroom suite," Margot answered innocently.
"Oh, er, do you suppose they have one?" Georgia asked vaguely.
If the Rossiter home didn't boast a Louis XXVII bedroom suite, it was practically the only thing missing, Margot decided. Georgia acquired a small oriental rug and two lovely cloisonne vases. Just as they were about to leave, Margot espied just the very sort of a secretary that Perry had been wanting for years. It was a splendid model, large enough to hold most of the books and papers that were now scattered in odd corners about the home and yet not too large to harmonize with their furniture. She went up to it and examined the various drawers and shelves with longing. Yes, they certainly needed that piece of furniture but six dollars was six dollars and she knew of no immediate way of making it twenty-six, which was the very least she could hope to get it for. The piece was easily worth more than twice that amount. She knew, of course, that there was that much money in the bank in their joint account and that by the simple act of drawing a check, the coveted piece of furniture might be hers. Suddenly she turned her back upon it. She must go home while resolve was still high within her. Turning to Georgia she said brightly, "If you're ready to go now, I'll carry one of the vases."
MARGOT thought better of herself all afternoon. She had really withstood temptation in a noble way. When Perry arrived home promptly at six-thirty, she greeted him laughingly with, "You'll have to take time out to pat my shoulder. I came dreadfully near to breaking my resolution today?and didn't."
"That's a good girl," Perry beamed. "As a matter of fact, I have been mentally patting my own back all the way home. Martin asked me to stay and meet a customer?some old stiff from the country, but I gracefully handed the job over to James and here I am, "Perry-on-the-spot," right on time for dinner.
"By the way," he said, when dinner had been disposed of and they were cozily seated in front of the living room fire," you didn't tell me what your good deed was for today. Did you pass up one of
WE RESOLVE
11
those powder puff jars that plays a tune when you take off the lid or a new canary to replace the one that Dinah proved to be so fond of?"
"Nothing so trivial, I assure you," Margot answered with dignity. "I had a chance to get a perfectly stunning secretary at the Rossiter's auction sale. You know, one of those combination things we've been wanting so long, but I steeled my heart against it and our bank balance is still intact."
"Oh, Margot," cried Perry, "you surely didn't?"
"Well, of course I did. I only had six dollars. I couldn't possibly get it without going over my allowance. That was your own very firmly put idea, wasn't it?"
"Oh, I know. But in a case like this, when I have been wanting one so badly?couldn't you have used some sense!"
"Sense," broke in Margot, on the verge of tears.
"Oh, I'm sorry," said Perry contritely. "Of course it was splendid of you to pass it up. I know you don't enjoy having my stuff clutter up the whole house any more than I do. I just spoke hastily because I was so disappointed. Let's forget it, dear."
WHEN Perry came home for dinner the following evening, his face wore an expression of such an odd mixture of pain and penitence that Margot exclaimed, "What in the world is the matter, Perry?"
He placed both hands on her shoulders and asked solemnly. "Do you believe that honest confession is good for the soul?"
"If the confession is to your wife and the soul your own?absolutely," she answered with a twinkle.
"Well then?the old stiff from the country that I wouldn't stay to see last night left the biggest order that the company has received so far this year. The commissions would have bought you?"
"Never mind," Margot interrupted. "Let's not harrow up our souls by going into that."
"Do you think," asked Perry, "that it would be very great folly to make resolutions in April?"
"Our New Year's resolutions didn't prove so very wise," answered Margot," perhaps new ones in April wouldn't be so foolish."
"Here goes then?We resolve that Margot will not go over her monthly allowance and that Perry will come home promptly for dinner, with certain exceptions, namely:"
"Never mind, dear. Just leave it at "with certain exceptions," Margot finished.
"Alright. And now when do we eat?"
"The eternal masculine," Margot murmured. "We eat right now and for desert we'll have hasty pudding and humble pie."