Good Health and Nutrition By Jean Cox mum health or better than average well being, it is well to consider factors which contribute to good health and also determine to a relative degree, what is good health. Is it being able to be around better than when you were acknowledged ill? Is it the ability to work when continually prodded? Is it a fair appetite when foods meet your fancy? Does good health mean restless, fitful sleep or elimination prodded by frequent use of drugs? Good health is zest for living. It means pleasure in work and a desire to continue additional activity in different kinds of play which provide pleasurable satisfaction and contribute to well being. A person in optimum health is neither physically nor nervously exhausted at the end of an average day. He enjoys food. He is not concerned over his own physical or mental condition. The perfectly well person builds friendships and enjoys social diversions because he has sufficient energy for these activities which contribute so much to desirable human relationships. The person in optimum health has a fine wholesome outlook on life and is willing to cooperate with and help those who need assistance. FOR improved health standards much credit is due the medical profession. The work of bio-chemists and nutrition experts has also raised the standards of good health. Careful experimentation has provided much positive information on the close relationship of food and well being. While the first experimental studies in nutrition twenty years or more ago dealt largely with deficiency diseases such as scurvy, it is interesting to note that renewed attention is being given to the study of diet-deficient diseases in order to determine other diseases and disease symptoms which result from lack of vitamins A, B, C, and D. Experimental studies receive painstaking consideration in many of the universities and colleges in the United States as well as in many centers of learning in foreign countries. Unlike more exact sciences new findings often upset previous conclusions regarding source and function of the somewhat elusive, although fairly definite, vitamins A, B, C, D, and E. However, well trained men and women by hard persistent effort are finding means of solving the difficult unexpected problems and are making research in the fields of animal nutrition of special benefit to humans. Careful study of the fact-finding experiments which have been required to give light on new questions in nutrition or further substantiate older beliefs, inspires the layman to appreciate the almost endless labor of those who work so earnestly to improve the health standards of the individual and race. SCURVY is one of the oldest nutritional diseases. It has been recognized for several centuries. James Lind in 1854 wrote a book on scurvy which gave symptoms and cures. He found that people living on low cost diet without fresh fruits and vegetables developed this disease. Sometimes practically all the sailors on sailing vessels were disabled from this diet deficiency. Lind found that the use of raw potatoes,  cabbage, and lemon or lime juice would cure as well as prevent this painful malady. However, with the better knowledge of the function of food, there are few epidemics of scurvy at the present time. In some cases poor food habits or idiosyncrasies of the individual may cause it. Deficiency of vitamin C in varying amounts results in some degree of scurvy. The term vitamin C is frequently replaced with the term ascorbutic acid which some research workers prefer. Lack of sufficient amount of ascorbutic acid results in soreness of gums, and in advanced stages teeth become loose. Very often there is muscular soreness. While it is comparatively easy to say that vitamins are chemical substances, it is difficult to fully appreciate results of vitamin deficiencies in diets over weeks, months and years. Diets low in vitamins result in lowered resistance, increased difficulty in throwing off infection and most important, in young children normal growth rate is inhibited and very often normal maturity deferred. It is difficult to fully sense the importance of these mystery food elements. Vitamins are food accents according to present standards and like dress accessories are necessary for the completed whole. Unlike dress accessories they are not visible to the eye, yet they are required in a satisfactory meal. As far as known they have no odor. In a health sense vitamins more than any other food division or class represent the mystery of menu building. No matter how elaborate or simple the menu may be it is not health producing without the required vitamins A, B, C, D, and E. These alphabetical names of potent food substances are tremendously important if one's aim is optimum health and well being. Among the best sources of vitamin C are citrus fruits, green peppers, raw spinach, strawberries, and tomatoes fresh or cold packed. Recent discoveries indicate that green bell peppers afford a very rich source of vitamin C. Students of nutrition in England have succeeded in extracting ascorbutic acid or vitamin C from bell peppers and predict that this source will become a real competitor of citrus fruits for this valuable food material. Other good sources are apricots, bananas, cantaloups, watermelon, peaches, fresh or canned pineapple, raspberries, raw cabbage, raw onions, peas, radishes, string beans, raw turnips, wa- ' ter cress, parsley, and apples if not stored too long. Juice of raw turnips and cabbage may be substituted for orange juice for vitamin C in feeding young children. WHILE fever diets are often deficient in vitamin A, this vitamin also needs consideration. Lack of it is shown in lowered resistance, imperfect growth and shortened span of life. Eye sickness results when the diet is deficient in vitamin A. One of the most common results is night blindness. Persons living in isolated camps where it is possible to obtain only a restricted diet, often cannot see the stars. This is often the difficulty when persons have trouble in driving at night. Prolonged deficiency of vitamin A results in more serious eye sickness. Use of milk and milk products will prevent this trouble. One of the functions of vitamin A is that it helps build resistance of the tissues of the eye, ear, nose and throat against infections of different kinds. Vitamin A is present in green leaf vegetables, tomatoes, and whole grains. Other excellent sources are: butter, cream, full cream cheese, egg yolk, liver, fish liver oils, kale, carrots, apricots, and prunes. Good GOOD HEALTH AND NUTRITION 31 sources are whole milk, bananas, cantaloup, cherries, dates, pineapple, hubbard squash, yellow corn, pumpkins, sweet potatoes, kidneys, artichokes, broccoli, lettuce, green peppers, green beans, green leaves of cabbage. ATTENTION should also be given to foods containing vitamin B in order that the appetite vitamin be included in every menu. This vitamin stimulates the appetite as well as aids in digestive processes and promotes growth. Excellent sources of vitamin B are: wheat germ, yeast extracts, dried brewers yeast, whole grain and bran, cereals and bread, egg yolks and turnip greens. Good sources are: milk, liver, kidney, nuts, bananas, citrus fruits, pineapple, raspberries, dried beans and legumes, carrots, corn, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, cabbage, kale, lettuce, peas, spinach, string beans, and turnips. Meats and potatoes also contain some vitamin B. Vitamin D, or the sunshine vitamin, is found in dairy products and eggs produced by animals in sunny pens. It is also found in salmon, oysters, and clams. These food sources can be supplemented by getting out into direct sunlight. Exposure of hands and ear lobes to the sun is approximately the equivalent of a small dose of cod liver oil. NUTRITIONISTS agree that food consumption of only minimum indispensible nutrients will not produce optimum well being. Unquestionably there should be fewer "border-line" health cases which result from inadequate foods. In a country where food is plentiful there should be fewer undernourished children and ailing adults as a result of either ignorance or poverty. Inadequate diets leave their devastating result in stunted bodies, crooked bones, and imperfect teeth. Unhealthy nerves detract from normal pleasures of childhood. Poor physical health too often places children in school below their normal mental group. Adequate foods and improved living conditions result in repair of nerve and of the sheath around nerves. Children more than adults need protein of milk and of eggs to help maintain protein balance. This mixture of phosphorized fats is also necessary for healthy nerves. There is a present need for renewed interest in nutrition problems as faulty economic conditions have necessarily resulted in lowered standards in nutrition. If you desire optimum health, check the average day's menus against the best sources of different vitamins listed. If some of the best food sources are not found in each day's menus, it may be wise to change the manner of spending food money. Frown down upon food dislikes, because warped or one-sided diets are less adequate than balanced ones. If a child objects to one of the essential foods, avoid an issue and substitute another food containing the same elements or serve the food in different form. In case of allergy, don't repeat food for a year, as the tendency may be outgrown during that period. Be open minded to improved health standards and nutrition findings. Unquestionably a greater proportion of adults and children should have more zest for living.