Martha McChesney Berry By George Gardiner "The joy of a good deed is in the doing of it, not in receiving thanks." IN all the history of America ] there have been few women like Martha Berry. Christians and especially Latter-day Saints, should know the story of this good woman, for she has demonstrated the practicableness of some of the most vital parts of our own religion. The influence of her work has spread far and wide to benefit the common people. While a young woman she founded a home school, the first of its kind in America, at her own expense, at Rome, Georgia. The students of her' school became apostles of a new idea and a better way of life which they had learned at the Berry School. The State of Georgia took up the Berry School idea of education and established other such schools for her rural people. Theodore Roosevelt, after being president of the United States, visited the Berry School. He sail, "This is the greatest practical work for American citizenship that has been done within this decade." Through Miss Berry's earlier visit to the White House he caught the vision and saw that Martha Berry's methods could be extended to other sections of the south and to rural America. As he studied the new idea he conceived in his mind the Country Life Commission. Later he called seven outstanding leaders in America together and appointed each a member of this Commission. They in turn, through education, fostered legislation and by the help of extension services and boy's and ?Martha Berry. Girl's clubs gave rural America the new idea. The White House Conference gave further stimulus to the movement which was again taken up by the Youth Movement. MARTHA BERRY had just returned from a finishing school in Baltimore to the fine old Georgia mansion with its stately white pillars and wide terraces. There were negro servants at the mansion to care for the lawns and the flowers and to anticipate her every wish. On this Sunday afternoon, she was looking back to the scenes of her childhood. She wandered down through the pleasant woods to a little log cabin where she and her sister had played with their dolls so long ago. The house was a monument to her happy memories, and she made it a den where she could re-live her youth. She often came to paint the wild flowers and play the old melodeon. One afternoon while she was playing, children came from the nearby tenant farms to peek through the cracks of the cabin. They were very shy, these poor white children, and it was only by tempting them with apples that she could coax them in. Once in, they listened eagerly to the stories she told them from the Bible. "THE next Sunday these children brought others and the next they brought their parents. The little log cabin grew to be a Sunday School home. Some of these MARTHA McCHESNEY BERRY 43 people moved away and asked her to come and start a Sunday School at their new home. Ofttimes the new home would be several miles away over mountain roads. On one of these occasions the cabin had no doors, no windows and part of the roof had fallen in. During Sunday School that morning, the rain came through and soaked Miss Berry's dress. At the close of school she searched out a big tree and told the men if they would fell the tree and split it for the roof she would furnish the nails and make them some lemonade. One of the men hesitated and said, "It mout not rain for a whole month." She replied, "It mout rain next Sunday." The men cut the tree, split it and made the new roof. Many of the mountaineers had never tasted lemonade. They were greatly amused. One of them said he had never heard of a woman, "'bossin' a house roofin' before." AS Martha Berry came to know these people better she saw that Sunday School was not enough. Some of them were hungry for many things. They needed a more varied diet for many of them were suffering from that dreaded pellagra, a disease which results from a limited diet of salt pork and corn bread. They were hungry for education. Less than half of the children in that section had finished the fourth grade in school, a large number could not even read. They knew nothing of nature and failed to appreciate the abundant beauty at their very doors. Like all great women in the cause of humanity, Martha Berry saw that people starve in the presence of abundance and all from the lack of sympathetic help from fellow men. She had the rarest of all human qualities, a desire to give the help that she was able to give to the people who needed it, in the way they needed it. Through the sermon of her deeds she has created a beautiful and peaceful island in a confused and turbulent world. ROM the beginning she shared her artistic feeling and rich enthusiasm with her people. She took the children on long walks, taught them the beauties of the flowers and the woods. She took five of these children to her little log cabin and started a home school, the kind that teaches mountain children a better way of life. The five boys who started this class lived there at the cabin which was furnished from Miss Berry's attic across the way. At the end of the week there was a wash day. But the boys refused to wash their clothes, the bedding and the table linen. They said, "Washing is woman's work. Men do not wash and we are men." Martha Berry was then a slim little aristocrat. Negro servants had anticipated her every wish from the day she was born, yet there was no argument with the boys. She said sweetly that she would do the washing and stepped to the tub of steaming soap suds and took the soiled overalls and started. This did not look right to the boys. They had never seen men wash, neither had they seen women of Miss Berry's type wash clothes. One of the large boys walked up and said, "I ain't never seen men wash clothes, Miss Berry, but sooner than see you do it I'll wash 'em." This incident served to illustrate  two simple lessons that helped to create the Berry School. The first lesson was, that there are many things we do not do that we ought to do, and the second, there are better ways of doing the things we do. From that day on, spotless white table linen, though of cheap cotton cloth was a matter of pride to the boys. When it was on the table there was a vase of flowers on it. Mountain pride was hard to reckon with; it continued to crop up but it was a valuable asset when turned in proper channels. Some of the boys could not pay tuition and they would not accept charity so ways had to be devised for the boys to bring supplies from home and to work for part of their board and tuition. Some brought chickens, others coarse cloth, one boy brought a span of oxen, one sold his only mule, one mother sold her only cow to help pay her boy's way in school. Many of the boys worked on the school farm, raised stock, made gardens, made furniture, and built school houses to pay their way. These things were part of her plan of education for this was an industrial school. The boys were taught scientific agriculture, including all branches of farming and stock raising. Later, when the school had grown and the girls attended, they were taught scientific home management and child care. The Berry school also taught the good things of the mind and the young people grew to be cultured and self-respecting. The flowers and the spotless linen were in a way a symbol of a new world into which these young people came. When they returned to their homes the community benefited by their attendance at the school. Her students were apostles of a new idea. On week-ends, Miss Berry often went to the homes of the students. One student invited her to stay at his home on such a trip, but he requested to leave school on Friday. He was afraid his mother would not know how to clean the house so he was going home to help her. Every community into which her students returned improved its way of life. Flower and vegetable gardens were planted. Better varieties of food began to wipe out pelagra. Homes that had never had a curtain at the window or a carpet on the floor were made attractive. People came out of the shadows into the sunshine of life. This better way of life spread not only to the mountain sections of the South but to all of rural America. At this time rural life in America was hard and often cruel for children and women especially. The schools were ill suited to the needs of rural life. Many of the ideas that have most improved rural schools originated at the Berry School. It has been truthfully said that "Miss Berry has made a contribution to the youth life of all the world with her great school." NO great work of this character is ever done without tremendous work and patience and understanding. As she says, "People don't always like being improved. Students occasionally riot and teachers don't see what we are trying to do. The joy of a good deed is in doing it, not in receiving thanks." MRS BERRY saw her own fortune being spent to the last dollar. She had undertaken a never ending task and must have help. She needed help of rich and influential friends but had none who were interested. But she did have an ever increasing desire to MARTHA McCHESNEY BERRY 45 help the children of the Georgia mountains. Here she passes that crucial test of brotherly love and sacrifice. In her search for help she was directed to R. Fulton Cutting. He asked her how much commission she was getting for collecting the funds for the school and how much salary she received for directing the school. "I get a thrill in seeing these fine people grow up to be clean, educated and happy people, but I get no money," was her calm reply. She timidly suggested that he might give just enough to help one student go through school. One year, and that would mean so much to the boy. When Mr. Cutting wrote out the check and handed it to her she hoped it might be fifty dollars but prepared herself to be thankful if it were only five. She waited until she was on the street before looking at the check and was immeasurably happy to find that it was five hundred dollars. Ten boys went to school the next year on that check. One boy was earning fifteen dollars per month when he entered school. When he left he was earning fifty. One Thanksgiving, the rest of the men at the creamery where he worked, got drunk and left the Berry School boy alone at the plant. He stayed faithfully and saved the company heavy loss and at the same time upheld the Berry School reputation for dependability. Neither boys nor girls at the school smoke nor drink. The check which aided these boys was the beginning of outside help. The value of the school property is now more than five million dollars. There are more than 30,000 acres of land on the estate. "THERE is a student body of 1000 and many times that - number on the waiting list. Tens of thousands of boys and girls have had their lives enriched by coming in contact with one of America's greatest personalities and with a community life that is a model for a better civilization. ER own state of Georgia built eleven district agricultural and mechanical schools after her pattern. The legislature designated her a distinguished citizen by special resolution. The Roosevelt Memorial Association awarded her the Medal of Honor for Distinguished Service. Seven universities have awarded her honorary degrees. The Pictorial Review awarded her the $5000 prize for advancing the national welfare in arts, letters, and social welfare. But one of the finest tributes and one she must prize most comes from one of her students and speaks for them all. He said, "For thirty-two years she labored unceasingly without salary to give the mountain boys and girls of the South, light and learning. The story of her courage and self-sacrifice, and her struggle to build the great mountain institution which today bears her name forms one of the bright spots in American history."