Appreciation By Valerie Peck (McKinley Ward, Wells Stake) HEN asked to talk on this topic at Relief Society Conference my first thought was, "that will be easy. I come home from school on Tuesday, the house isn't very warm, it's lonesome, dinner isn't ready, and we always know that it will be beans or soup, for mother has gone to Relief Society." Speaking more _ seriously, we enjoy having mother attend Relief Society meetings. She comes home with new thoughts and ideas. The lessons cover a variety of stimulating subjects. Mother tells us parts of each of these lessons, and we are benefited thereby. The Theology lessons on the Life and Teachings of Christ we always enjoy. We like very much the comments on the Social Service lessons, and we are delighted with the Literary lessons. Mother tells us the stories and biographies which are always entertaining. Whenever we need help with our themes at school mother usually knows something about each subject. I am sure a great deal of this she learns at Relief Society. I often wonder if one can get too many "'counter-irritants" in life. Let me explain what I mean. When you have a cold, someone puts a mustard plaster on your chest. After this has been on thirty minutes, there is an itching, burning, tingling in the chest, which is very uncomfortable. How can one get rid of this unpleasant feeling? Then mother pulls off the plaster and smears on some cold cream. The blood has been drawn to the chest through a disagreeable process, the counter-irritant soothes. In life we see and hear and contact things that are irritating. We see the girl who is not adverse to a cocktail or two, or a cigarette, or coarse language or a crude outlook on life, or something that makes one feel that life isn't a very fine thing in some respects. Then mother comes along with some thought or ideal, some noble endeavor on the part of some man or woman,?a counter-irritant, and I see that life is not sordid, and unclean, but is hopeful and full of ' opportunity for everyone to attain the high ideal. Such counter-irritants spring into being at Relief Society, and are brought home to us and vitalized. A FEW years ago a great scientist of nature, Luther Burbank, conceived the idea of improving the standards of farm products. His unique scheme in one case was to take what was best in several varieties of potatoes and unite them into one fine blend. People came to call this process of taking an ordinary variety and grafting in desirable traits of other varieties "Burbanking". It has dawned upon me, that, in a measure, is what mother has been trying to do to me. Using me, as I am, as the ordinary scrub variety, she has drawn from the Relief Society ideas that make for noble womanhood and has quietly gone about grafting them into my make-up, "Burbanking" me. The process has not been entirely painless, nor without opposition, and sometimes I have been "Burbanked" in spite of furious resistance. But the process continually goes on until I am beginning to find my outlook upon life taking a new meaning, a new richness, a new lustre, through the "Burbanking" of Relief Society embellishments. No one can come in contact with these, even second-hand, and not be influenced by them. So through the Relief Society "counterirritants" and "Burbankings" I find that the undesirable scrub in me gradually yields more easily each time to the finer, nobler, and more really satisfying things of life To sum it all up, in spite of bear soup, Dad's hard burned biscuits, eaten in a half-heated breakfast nook Tuesday nights, I partake of a sweet uplift that is leading me to "tune in" on the Relief Society spirit for the sheer joy it brings with its fine, noble outlook.