Notes To The Field Eliza Roxy Snow Memorial Poem Contest THE committee for the General Board of the Relief Society are pleased to announce the result of the annual prize poem contest for the year 1937. There were 137 poems entered, most of them of unusual merit. It is gratifying to note the increased interest in this contest, and the improvement in poetic fancy and construction. The first prize this year was awarded to Anna Prince Redd, of Provo, Utah, for her very beautiful poem "No Beauty Is". Second prize to Vesta P. Crawford of Salt Lake City, for her tender poem "Memorial On the Plains", and third prize to Kathryn F. Clyde of Heber City, for a lovely poem "Pioneer Cabin." The judges this year were Prof. N. A. Pederson, connected with the English department of the Utah State Agricultural College; Richard Evans, associate editor of the Era and Nettie D. Bradford of the General Board of Relief Society. We are grateful to the judges for their valuable assistance; we congratulate the successful authors, and thank all who contributed to the contest. Annie Wells Cannon Julia A. F. Lund Rosannah C. Irvine Ida P. Beal Rae B. Barker Committee. Work and Business Department 'TO everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under the heaven." "The wise woman looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread of idleness. She seeketh wool and flax and worketh willingly with her hands. She layeth her hands to the spindle. She maketh fine linen. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor, yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy." Now is the time and season for every leader to look well to the ways of the Work and Business project. The season's gift making and holidays are past and the needs of the ward have largely been cared for, allowing more time and opportunity to devote to this activity. Have you enthusiastically explained and promoted the aim and value of such a project? Has every member in your ward had an opportunity to participate? Are you planning to spend at least two or three lessons on the results of the survey with defiq nite suggestions or demonstrations to show how they can be used to promote a better understanding of home problems? Are you filing all data received to be used in making a final report when called for? The project was planned to help women to see their own needs and to encourage them to provide for the same. Are you extending a hand of helpfulness and a word of encouragement? Social Service Department ONE problem of the good citizen is, how to live successfully and in harmony with his neighbors. Up to a very recent time it was assumed that just the act of living in groups would insure successful individual adjustment. Ona large scale we see the fallacy of such a premise indicated in the contention and conflict among national neighbors. Today, many leading educators are convinced that conscious effort, directed attention, must be given the specific  problem of developing social interest. As individuals we see the magnitude of the task and, in the main, stand discouraged. Discouragement will never mend the ill. A better attitude is, "How can I help. I am a citizen. I am part of society. What is my responsibility?" A very interesting and promising project, "Building Social Awareness in School', is being conducted in one of the large school systems of our country. Marguerite and Willard Beecher believe that it is so successfully changing the anti-social feeling of many individuals who were failing to make a useful social adjustment, that they are guiding this project gratuitously. Few mothers are equipped, either in training or time, to help in so large a way the building of good citizens. Always, however, the home has been pointed to as the strength of the nation. Every home is a working laboratory, a small factory contributing its quota of citizens. Shall we be content to leave the main responsibility with school or civic organizations? Suggestive: As a starting point for a worthwhile discussion and in an effort to consciously develop social awareness try this question in your class and again in your homes: Does freedom mean I shall do only as I please? Then, in your mind, grant that same privilege to every person in your community for one week: the grocer, milkman, streetcar conductor, garage man, utilities operators, etc. Carry the discussion to its logical conclusion. It will be readily seen that freedom and security depend on the willingness of each individual to do his share. The hope is that we can stimulate in our classes real thought on the power the home can be in building goad citizenry. Theology WE believe that through the atonement of Christ, all mankind may be saved, by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel."' So reads the third article of faith propounded by the Prophet Joseph Smith as one of the thirteen articles making a concise presentation of the belief of the Latter-day Saints. In the study of the most excellent lesson VII on the subject, "Christ and the Atonement,' a thorough analysis of this third article will be most helpful. As the years pass, in daily life, one is so apt to take everything for granted, and never consider the great debt of gratitude due the Lord, for our very being, and more than all; for our salvation; but in deeper contemplation truly need we "stand amazed at the love Jesus offered us", in his voluntary sacrifice. Mark well the voluntary fact that your knowledge may be strengthened in His divine Sonship. No human would suffer all the mockings, sorrows and agonies, knowing that a prayer would end them; but the Savior-refused all help, even rebuked the disciple who would defend Him saying "Put up thy sword. Thinkest thou that I cannot pray to my Father and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels?" Some fine music in connection with this lesson such as "Oh, It Is Wonderful," and "Glory to God in the Highest," would be appropriate There are also many pictures by the great masters if copies are available. "Christ and the Pilgrims at Emmaus", by Velasquez; "The Supper at Emmaus", by Veronese, are taken from the memorable story told by Luke 24:25-30.