Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 7
CHRIST AND THE ATONEMENT
Helpful References
In the Bible: Isaiah 7:14; 53:3-12; John 1:29-30, 35-36; 3:14-18; 6:50-51, 53-54; 10:7, 9, 11, 17-18; 11:25-26; 12:32-33, 44, 46; Luke 22:19-20.
In the Book of Mormon: I Nephi 12:11; II Nephi 9:21-22, 25:26; 10:25; Mosiah 4:6-9; Alma 7:12; 34:11-16; Moroni 8:20.
In the Doctrine and Covenants: Sec. 18:11, 23-25; 19:15-19; 29:42, 46; 76:41-44.
In the Pearl of Great Price: Moses 6:62.
Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 4 Talmage, Jesus, the Christ, p. 21. Taylor, The Mediation and Atonement, Brown, Why I Believe in Religion, Chapter III.
1. The Meaning of Atonement.?The word translated as atone in the King James version of the Old Testament means severally to cover over, forgive, pardon, expiate, purify, and pacify. These shades of meaning help us to better understand the translated symbol. Interestingly enough the word atonement occurs but once in the King James version of the New Testament (Romans 5:11), and even there it would have been better to translate it as reconciliation. In the sense used by the Church, atonement comprises "proof of the divinity of Christ's earthly ministry, and the vicarious nature of His death, as a fore-ordained and voluntary sacrifice, intended for and efficacious as a propitiation for the sins of mankind, thus becoming the means whereby salvation may be secured." (Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 4).
2. Why it Behooved Christ to Suffer?President John Taylor after quoting the scripture that it "behooved Christ to suffer" (Luke 24:46) goes on to say, "One great and very striking statement is here made by the Lord Himself, to the effect that it behooved Christ to suffer, and the question at once presents itself before us, why did it behoove Him? Or why was it necessary that He should suffer? For it would seem from His language, through His sufferings, death, atonement and resurrection, 'that repentance and remission of sins' could be preached among all nations, and that consequently if He had not atoned for the sins of the world, repentance and remission of sins could not have been preached to the nations. A very important principle is here enunciated, one in which the interests of the whole human family throughout all the world are involved. That principle is the offering up of the Son of God, as a sacrifice, an atonement and a propitiation for our sins." The doctrine of the Atonement is thus seen to be of supreme interest and importance to the Church. It cannot consistently be ignored in a series of lessons dealing with the ministry and work of the Christ.
3. The Doctrine of the Atonement Much Disregarded in the World.?Unfortunately, the atonement wrought by our Lord is being increasingly disregarded, or rationalized away. It is evident that the world of our day is rapidly departing from the true teaching that Christ gave His life for the sins of mankind. Not only is this so, but even His divine Sonship is denied. To Latter-day Saints who really and truly believe in the revelations of the Christ to Joseph Smith the fact of the atonement can not possibly be doubted. Years ago, Dr. Charles R. Brown commented on the growing disregard for the Atonement as follows: "Yet straight in the face of the spiritual dynamic of the Cross we are compelled to admit that in recent decades this idea of atonement has been neglected and obscured. The main criticism upon the preaching of recent times has not been that men have been preaching mistaken views of the atonement?for the most part they have not been preaching any view. When we scan the sermon topics announced by some metropolitan daily in its church notices for the following Sunday, we rarely find this theme. When we think back upon the sermons we have heard in the last twenty years, we find that our minds have not been directed many times to the fact that 'Christ died for our sins.' As the ground of forgiveness, as a basis for spiritual appeal, as a source of motive for right living, this truth has fallen in many quarters into disuse. This deep diapason stop on the cathedral organ has too rarely been drawn out and the music of worship has suffered loss."
Dr. Brown quotes another prominent gentleman who once said, "The Christian minister who from intellectual difficulties or from lack of spiritual experience, ignores the atonement becomes either nerveless and ineffective, or eccentric and sensational. His message is gone. He either loses heart and becomes dull, or he strikes out and endeavors by his own ingenuity to supply the gap which is made. But from the nature of the case his ministry must cease to be fruitful."
It is refreshing to find yet some influential men in the world who sense the worth and reality of worship which arises from the profound conviction that our Lord did indeed make an atonement for all mankind. Conditions being what they are in our age, Latter-day Saints will find it necessary to proclaim with vigor the doctrine of Christ's atonement.
4. The Doctrine of the Atonement Not Fully Understood.?It is probable that no one fully understands why the atonement of Christ makes it possible for all men to be redeemed from death, and saved upon conditions of repentance and obedience to the principles of the Gospel. God's ways are mainly inscrutable to man and dimly understood. We have to walk by faith and trust that His ways are righteous altogether. It is just as reasonable to observe that man can no more fully understand the atonement than he can fully understand electricity. But he gets benefits of each without full comprehension. It is unreasonable to reject the idea of atonement because we cannot fully explain it.
President John Taylor said, "In some mysterious, incomprehensible way, Jesus assumed the responsibility which naturally would have devolved upon Adam; but which could only be accomplished through the mediation of Himself, and by taking upon Himself their sorrows, assuming their responsibilities, and bearing their transgressions or sins. In a manner to us incomprehensible and inexplicable, he bore the weight of the sins of the whole world; not only of Adam, but of his posterity; and in doing that, opened the kingdom of heaven, not only to all believers and all who obeyed the law of God, but to more than one-half of the human family who die before they come to years of maturity, as well as to the heathen, who, having died without law, will through His mediation, be resurrected without law, and be judged without law, and thus participate, according to their capacity, works and worth, in the blessings of His atonement."
5. The Suffering of the Christ.?We remember the sufferings of Christ, not so much in connection with His crucifixion as in connection with His cross in the garden of Gethsemane. No man has ever undergone agony similar to that experienced by the Christ for the simple reason that no mortal man has ever had the power of mind and body that He had. No mortal man has had the equivalent intelligence and knowledge and spiritual insight possessed by the Christ to be able to feel and bear the sins of all mankind. If it be said that "every large-hearted man is scattered over all creation," meaning, of course, the enlargement of personality to comprehend the interests of others,?what must it have been in the case of the Christ! In the face of His sensitivity to the sins of mankind He had the power, by reason of His divine Sonship, to defy death until, having paid the heavy penalty for all, He voluntarily gave up His life.
In the garden of Gethsemane "he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me. And he went a little further, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt." (Matthew 26:37-39)
The Savior described His sufferings to the Prophet Joseph as follows. "Which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit?and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink?nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men." (Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 19:18-19.)
Members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, least of all people, can forget the unselfish sacrifice of the Son of God for all mankind.
Questions
1. Why was the atonement of Christ necessary?
2. Did any of the Prophets understand that Christ was to make an atonement for mankind? Cite scripture and explain.
3. Was Christ punished, as some contend, by making an atonement for mankind? Cite scripture in support of your answer.
Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit.
1. Show that the doctrine of the atonement if rightly understood can be a mighty motive for right living.
2. Point out the effects of the atonement (1) Universally (2) Individually.
Teacher's Topic
LESSON 7
THE PATIENCE OF JESUS
"But that (seed) are they which in an honest and good heart having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience."?Luke 8:15.
"A bruised reed shall he not break."?Matthew 12:20.
PATIENCE is an old, familiar word, with a double meaning. There is the patience which means the calm waiting for something hoped for. Then there is the patience of the uncomplaining endurance of pain and trouble. We speak of having patience with the failings and weaknesses of others. Jesus possessed patience in the highest degree.
He waited in the little town of Nazareth until he was thirty before he began his ministry. Then, instead of using military force of any kind, he chose the slow and toilsome way of conquering by gentleness and love. Through all his life he made but one hundred and twenty disciples. Yet, he said, "Be of good cheer. I have overcome the world." He knew it was not then, but hundreds of years after his death, that, through obedience to his teachings, all the evils of the world would be overcome. With confidence in the ultimate victory of Truth, he waited in patience.
He was patient under tribulation. "He came unto his own, and his own received him not. He knocked at the door of Jerusalem, but the men who kept the door refused to open it. He knocked at the door of Nazareth; the door was opened and then shut in his face." Enemies pursued him. He was criticised, abused, misunderstood, but he never complained nor grew bitter. His patience was never exhausted.
Sometimes his friends did not understand him. They sometimes failed to catch the import of the things he told them. At the Last Supper his disciples quarreled among themselves as to their places at the table. Instead of becoming impatient he took a basin of water and washed their unsandaled feet?a task which was usually performed by slaves. By doing this he taught them what he had been trying to teach them from the beginning, that he who would be greatest among men must be the servant of all.
Many great men have been impatient with mental, moral, or physical weakness in others, because they were strong themselves. They had no patience with the slow of comprehension, with those unable to stand up under economic pressure. They were ready to "break the bruised reed" and to quench the "smoking wick." Not so with Jesus. He could understand the weak; he was considerate with the mentally dull; he was long suffering with the "lost sheep". Matthew, in describing Jesus, uses this quotation from the Old Testament: "A bruised reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench."
Discussion Have you ever known a woman to become bitter toward the Church, because she was misunderstood or because of some unfortunate experience with her fellow workers? What lesson could she learn from the character traits of Jesus?
In what ways are we called upon day by day to exercise the patience of calmly waiting and the patience of unruffled endurance under pain and trouble?
Give incidents from the New Testament showing the patience of Jesus.
Discuss Susan B. Anthony's patience in working and waiting for the suffrage for women. How has she been honored recently by the Government?
References: The New Testament; The Character of Jesus?Charles Edward Jefferson.
Literature
LESSON 7
ROMANCE OF AN OLD PLAYHOUSE
IN OUR former lesson, we have seen that from the very beginning the Saints were interested in the drama and that its leaders encouraged its presentation. We also traced the growth of the dramatic spirit among the people in Utah up to the point where President Brigham Young ordered a site to be purchased for the erection of the Salt Lake Theatre.
George D. Pyper says the building of a theatre was not a sudden inspiration but that the decision to build such an edifice became solidified as the President saw the need. He also states that it is only fair to say that John T. Caine and Hiram B. Clawson both urged the project.
At any rate, in July, 1861, excavation for the Old Playhouse began on the corner of First South and State Streets on ground which had been secured from Reynolds Cahoon. Missionaries in the fields of labor were asked to encourage the immigration to Utah of mechanics, artists, and musicians. The author has caused the following passage to be set in italics: "In response to this call there came to Utah many men of unusual capabilities. The wisdom and foresight of Brigham Young found definite expression in the building of the Social Hall, the Bee-Hive House, the Theatre; the famous 'Mormon' Tabernacle, and later the majestic Salt Lake Temple, and in the great love for the arts enjoyed by the people of the intermountain region."
Among the men who were of great importance in building the Old Playhouse, the following are worthy of special mention: William H. Folsom, the architect in charge of the work; Joseph A. Young, superintendent of supplies; William Wolstenholm, foreman of the diggers; Alexander Gillispie, foreman of the eight stonecutters; Henry Grow, foreman of the three millwrights; Joseph Schofield, foreman of the fifteen carpenters. A water-wheel placed in the water ditch furnished the power for hoisting the stone.
"By the time the walls were up," says Hiram B. Clawson, "E. L. T. Harrison, an architect from London, who had been trained in the very best schools, arrived in Utah." This man, working with Architect Folsom, designed much of the interior, patterning it largely after the Drury Lane Theatre in the British Capital. By the time the Theatre was ready for its interior decorations, ox teams had brought George Martin Ottinger, a gifted artist, to the state. The painting of the interior and of the scenery to be used in the Theatre was given into his capable hands.
Mr. Ottinger, assisted by Henry Maiben and William Morris, the latter a decorator from London, painted the scenery for four years. Later the painting work was turned over to Alfred Lambourne.
The following description furnished President Young by the architect, William H. Folsom, will be of interest. "It was commenced July 1, 1861, and completed for temporary use. March 5, 1862. The building is situated on the corner of State Road and First South street. The size of the building on the ground floor is 80 by 144 feet, 40 feet high from the water-table to the square of the building. The roof is self-supporting and hipped all around, with a promenade on top 40 by 90 feet. The south main entrance has an opening of 32 by 20 feet, supported by two Grecian Doric columns. The exterior of the building is Grecian Doric. The auditorium has a parquette and four circles, 60 feet on the outer circle, 37 feet on the inner, and covered with a circular dome in ogee bell form. In the interior, the stage has an opening at the drop curtain of 31 feet front by 28 feet high, and shows 27 feet in flats and 62 feet deep from the footlights, 10 feet proscenium and 40 feet high from stage floor to ceiling. The building is still in progress and will probably be completed the present season."
The author, Mr. Pyper, adds in one of his italicized passages: "You must remember this was eight years before the advent of the Union Pacific Railroad. There were no such things as autos, telephones, gasoline engines, electric power, or any of the agencies that make building easy now-a-days."
Inspiration was shown in the construction of that huge stage. It was so well done that the most elaborate plays of a much later period found plenty of room for their properties and scenic effects.
During the period of the construction of the Theatre, the Civil War began and Johnston's Army was called home. They left in such a hurry that it became necessary for the commanders to dispose of their possessions at extremely low prices. The Old Playhouse became a direct beneficiary. Even the iron from the abandoned army wagons was made into nails with which the historic building was put together. The author has this to say: "Judged from the present period, one would almost be led to believe that Johnston's Army was sent to Utah to assist the Saints in their recreational activities."
Mr. Pyper declares that there was little quibbling over wages among the workmen. "What they did receive was mostly in written promises of future theatre tickets. The experience of Mr. Walter J. Beatie, who afterwards became a son-in-law of Brigham Young, is typical of all who worked on the Old Playhouse. 'I hauled timber all summer,' he says, 'and attended the Theatre all winter, using up the orders received in payment for my work.'"
"When completed the structure stood far above any of its kind in Western America. It was the consummation of a people's desire for the artistic and cultural advantages of life; a monument to the new civilization in the wilderness."
On March 6, 1862, a dedicatory program was given in the Old Playhouse at which President Daniel H. Wells offered the dedicatory prayer and President Young made a speech on the subject, "The Capacity of the Human Body and Mind for Improvement and Development."
"There was nothing lovely in the world," says Mr. Pyper indirectly quoting President Young, "nothing delightful, but the Lord had created it for the good of His children, and it was the abuse, not the proper use of anything that constituted evil. Men could make evil of going to the theatre; they could make evil of anything, but they did not expect to do wrong in going there. Brother Wells, he said, had prayed that the building might crumble to the dust and pass away as if it had never been, sooner than it should fall into the hands of the wicked or be corrupted or polluted; and to that he said, 'amen'."
Other leading brethren made short addresses after which the curtain rose on "The Pride of the Market." The evening closed with dancing on the stage, and the Old Playhouse, though not entirely finished, was ready for use.
In the succeeding chapters, Mr. Pyper reviews for his readers the first performances in the Old Playhouse. On March 8, 1862, the first paid performance was given to a packed house. Despite the fact that many had said that the Theatre was far too big for a small pioneer community, President Young's judgment was justified at once. Hiram B. Clawson and John T. Caine were the first managers and the following men and women had parts in the first performance: John T. Caine, Henry Maiben, Joseph M. Simmons, R. H. Parker, David McKenzie, H. B. Clawson, S. D. Sirrine, R. Matthews, Henry Snell, John B. Kelly, Mrs. Woodmansee, Mrs. Margaret Clawson, W. C. Dunbar, H. E. Bowring, W. H. Miles, Phil Margets, Mrs. H. E. Bowring, Mrs. S. A. Cook, and Mrs. Maggie Thomas (afterwards Mrs. George Romney).
These are the ladies and gentlemen who sixty-six years ago (now seventy-five years ago) made the first move as players in the Romance of an Old Playhouse. For years following, the programs continued to hold many of these names in the long list of plays, to the delighted patrons of the drama."
On Christmas Eve, 1862, President Young arranged another party similar to the dedicatory program in the Old Playhouse. On that occasion he joined in the dance. At a given signal, the orchestra struck up the tune for the "Sir Roger de Coverly" and "a selected group led by President Young, executed the popular English dance."
In charming manner Mr. Pyper calls attention of his readers to the quaint advertisements and announcements which appeared in the printed programs. One, especially, may be of interest:
SPECIAL NOTICE "No Person, Policemen excepted, carrying FIREARMS or other Weapons, will hereafter be admitted into the Theatre. Strangers having no other place to deposit their arms, can leave them with the Treasurer at the Box Office, who will check for, and return them to the owner at the close of the performance."
Mr. Pyper adds: "Those, of course, were exciting days. I distinctly remember, when a boy, seeing a motley collection of pistols lying on one of the gallery tables with cards of identification on each. These had been taken from patrons to be returned at the end of the show."
For the next many years, the Old Playhouse was the center of the drama in western America. Some of the greatest American actors played upon the historic stage. During the early period ten of Brigham Young's daughters appeared with the Irwins in a show which has been well described by Susa Young Gates, an excerpt from whose statement is included in the Romance.
In 1864 the first prestidigitator or necromancer appeared in the Theatre. His appearance indicates that the Theatre was open to all kinds of artistic presentations. In December that same year "Hamlet" and "Macbeth" were first produced in the Theatre that was fifteen hundred miles from large centers of culture. Mr. G. Pauncefort, the Shakespearean actor, was popular and had a prosperous season at the Old Playhouse.
The chapter entitled, "A Cathedral in the Desert" contains many references that are unusually interesting and which reveal the author's tender memories of the details connected with the Old Playhouse. For instance, that battery of 385 oil lamps which had to be turned up and down as the play called for more or less light must be a choice memory, as were the successive installations of gas and electricity, as the world advanced in its knowledge of science.
In speaking of the Greenroom, the author says: "The capacious greenroom, a notable and historic gathering place for the early-day players, was located at the rear of the stage midway between the ladies' and gentlemen's dressing rooms... It housed democratic groups in the day time, and acknowledged a dictatorship at night. When the stock system was discontinued the room was given over to the stars. The stars! One almost tiptoes across the floor when he recalls with reverence the many immortals who have occupied the room. The world will never look upon their like again!
"The list is too long to enumerate here; but one might close one's eyes and see passing in and out of the old greenroom the shadows of all the great players who have crossed the continent between the years 1862 and 1928."
Suggestions for Study
1. A photograph of the Old Playhouse, if one is available, would be interesting. If no other is available, the one in the book could be used.
2. If there is a person in the class or community who has ever been in the Old Playhouse, perhaps that person could give some interesting descriptions.
3. Since the song, "Hard Times Come Again No More," one of President Young's favorites, was used at the dedicatory service, it could be used to give atmosphere to the lesson. In fact, where it is feasible, much of the program found on page 93 could be reproduced.
4. Read the list of plays presented during 1862-3 and comment upon their number and variety.
5. Show that the Prophet Joseph Smith was also in favor of dramatics.
6. How well has Superintendent Pyper presented the picture of the developing theatre? Would you say that his discussion is matter-of-fact or that it has a spirit which leads a reader to the appreciation of what the Old Playhouse meant to the Saints.
Social Service
Lesson 7
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF CITIZENSHIP
Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapters 28 and 30.
THE term "citizenship" is used to describe the condition of living under government. It implies the right of State protection and the privilege of political and social participation. It is inclusive of all members of a governing organism, minors and adults. In return for the rights of citizenship, a member of a State is under definite obligations to the country in which he lives. He cannot share its privileges without assuming a portion of its responsibilities.
Being a resident of a place may give one the status of citizenship; but?does residence make of one a good citizen? Not at all. A government has a right to expect allegiance and active support, not only for its political institutions, but also for its social activities. In a democracy government has been gradually established by the people of past generations. Its phases are as diverse and broad as the complexities of the civilization which has made it. It is still subject to change. It is the duty of citizenship to either support the existing conditions of Statehood, or to make an effort to change them along the lines of constructive political and social ideology.
The greater the privileges of government, and the larger the amount of freedom granted to citizenship, the more comprehensive the obligations of its citizens become. Without willing participation on the part of all citizens in the essential activities of life involving human relations, neither social nor political progress can go forward.
The present lesson aims to develop an appreciation for this point of view; First, by indicating the importance of each citizen's responsibilities to the proper functioning of life's activities. Second, by encouraging individuals to take their part as essential links in the chain of social life.
All people are born to citizenship, but some relinquish their native birthright and acquire, through naturalization, a new citizenship in an adopted land. But no matter by what method one's citizenship has been established, all members of a State should manifest a live interest in public affairs. However, a spirit of apathy toward civic life frequently exists. It is often justified by the supposition that the duly appointed leaders are responsible for carrying on their own activities. But no leader can promote any activity without having interested people to direct. The two qualities are inter-dependent. Despite this fact, it sometimes happens that leaders prefer an apathetic attitude on the part of those whom they should be guiding. In this case they themselves lack good citizenship. They are not only willing, but anxious that others do not examine their conduct of public affairs lest disapproval of their actions should be expressed.
Generally speaking, apathy contributes to three great faults in social life: First, it allows corruption and unsocial behavior to permeate public life. Second, it thwarts the correction of existing undesirable conditions by allowing affairs to develop and continue unchallenged. Third, it retards the growth of social consciousness in regard to public life, in spite of the fact that such consciousness is necessary to the improvement of social conditions. By examining these three faults we can see why it should be incumbent upon each citizen to take an active interest in public affairs.
In the first place, corruption and unsocial behavior in public life are generally the results of a selfish minority who seek to promote their own private interest at the expense of the welfare of the whole. When public consciousness is blanketed with a spirit of apathy which allows state or municipal officials to conduct public affairs with no other scrutiny than that of their own eyes, it becomes relatively easy for selfish interest and private gain to flourish. But just as cleanliness and sunshine drive away the ravages of death-dealing disease germs, public examination dispels corruption and impotence in public office. Interested participation in behalf of its unities and ideals is indeed necessary to the wholesome maintenance of governmental bonds. If large groups shirk their responsibility in connection with Statehood, too often corruption flourishes. Constructive citizenship therefore requires that each individual exercise an active interest in the public acts of all civic officials.
Such activity is not beyond the average person. There are many avenues open to public interest in everyday life. Open forums permit discussion; newspaper columns invite comment; radio services offer broadcasts. Auxiliary legislative groups, civic, and some church organizations lend themselves to wholesome consideration of civic, and, in some cases, other forms of public life. No citizen needs to remain outside the current of the social stream.
By means of the second fault, or an apathetic attitude which circumvents the challenge of existing conditions, much good may be lost to society. Although, in a democracy, it is the duty of the minority to stand by while the majority is in power, the promulgation of the minority point of view does not need to be silenced. The minority has the right to agitate its own cause within the channels of the law. At times a losing cause, on becoming a winning issue, has proven highly beneficial to social welfare, and has come to be regarded in the light of widely approved thinking. Had the first minority group been so apathetic that existing conditions had remained un-- ' challenged, a majority vote for the issue would have been lost. An example is the case of prohibition in liquor traffic. Even after this measure has been tried and rejected, there is a minority which continues to believe in its efficacy for social welfare. This group has never given up its efforts to point out the virtue of abstinence or to agitate its cause. They believe in the ultimate possibility of its re-enactment and its consequent benefit to society. This example is typical of many others of lesser scope. Issues which are just as vital to the state or community in which one lives are constantly under consideration. A well informed member keeps abreast of these issues; and again, there are many channels open to investigation, and through which he can make his influence felt. An examination of the third fault reveals that an indifferent social consciousness is detrimental to public life. Social consciousness is the byproduct of interest in civic and political affairs. It is the state of awareness which results from such interest LESSON DEPARTMENT 69  Without this awareness in the body of the State organism, the head may do as it pleases. No matter what phase of public life is under consideration, if the members whose business is being conducted are indifferent to the means of procedure, those in charge may indulge in slipshod methods. The social consciousness of the public is always reflected in the actions of the officials. If, as a result of social apathy, conduct which is subversive to society is allowed -to exist, social consciousness may become even more dulled through the effect of contact with that which is evil, or at least undesirable. Thus negative actions may be furthered or allowed to continue without opposition. Active interest in public affairs is as necessary to healthy civic life as is exercise to the development of good muscle tone. Any democracy depends upon its rank and file, and not upon its ruling bodies, for its morale. And certainly a citizenry is defined by its morale. But at times outward appearances do not point to the true standard of citizenship in a community or a country at large. For example: No political party could conduct its campaign on the basis of such character vilification as is in vogue if its members disapproved of such conduct. A well-balanced citizenry could demand a more ethical form of political operations, and one which is more truly representative of party policies. All members should work for a better statement of principles and ideals, and an election campaign which is based upon real information. Also, the exercise of the electoral franchise by mere voting is not a complete discharge of duty. A member of a State should exert himself to use his intelligence and judgment to see that his vote is well considered.. In regard to civic life, apart from politics, we see that moral support and active co-operation are equally important to its state of well being. The recent feat of the three Russians who flew from Moscow over the roof of the world and down the American Pacific coast to southern California succeeded through the cooperation of scientific endeavor, governmental backing, and popular support. By working harmoniously toward a public enterprise, an epic flight, both as to distance covered and difficulty encountered, was completed. Moreover, co-operation was, in this case, extended to international support. The interest of Canadian and American aerial navigation officlals was as necessary to the success of the flight as was that of the Russian government and the people. The active assistance from all of the countries involved was indispensable to the completion of the endeavor. This kind of conduct also constitutes good citizenship?for citizenship has manifold aspects. The ethics of citizenship forms an extensive study in and of itself. Such questions as the use of a nontransferable streetcar transfer by one to whom the transfer was not issued, the evasion of quarantine laws, and the payment of taxes, are all subjects which pertain to citizenship. Any relation which contributes to public activities forms a part of the chain of social life. Individuals contribute to enterprise; enterprise contributes to the social fabric. Similarly the duties to one's church are also the duties of citizenship. Latter-day Saints could not conduct successful auxiliary organizations if their members did not participate actively. Without vigorous auxiliaries, the Church proper could not flourish. And thus the State is dependent upon the many aspects of its social organization. The links in the continuous chain of life are forged from  the associations of life. In society, each member forms a link. The chain is no stronger than the active participation of the average citizen. Activities 1. From your county recorder find out what proportion of the authorized voters take part in a regular county election. Do the figures indicate a healthy sharing of civic responsibility? Discuss ways of encouraging those who do not feel the importance of voting to participate in civic life for the benefit of the social activities of the country. 2. Make a list of the duties which the term "constructive citizenship" could imply to you. Child Guidance LESSON 7 SUCCESS AND FAILURE EMERSON has said, "Self trust is the first secret of success." Success is a habit a child gradually acquires in his early life. The infant finds success simply in hammering a block, because it satisfies one of his needs. We found in a previous lesson how frustration or failure in the infant's plans leads to emotional outbursts and often to stubborn, obstinate behavior. Even to adults nothing is more invigorating than achievement of their goals, especially after a difficult struggle. Deep feelings of failure are often the beginnings of mental break-down for those who have not learned how to take their failures. Failure in one task often builds up general feelings of inadequacy in all tasks. A sense of failure in turn makes one less efficient and more liable to fail again. We have known adults with normal intelligence and opportunity, to live lives of such habitual failure that total direct relief is all that could be done for them. Children who fail in school or at their play or chores around home are often called lazy, and lazy they are. But calling them lazy does not tell why they are that way. Laziness is no more a cause of failure than it is a result of it. Children are usually lazy because they have not learned the habit of success. They have not learned the joy of doing something well. It behooves the parent of a lazy child to start him out with tasks the goals of which are not too remote, and the difficulty of which is such that the child can certainly succeed with reasonable effort. Tasks of sufficient difficulty must be provided lest the child find them so easy that he loses all interest. A child with an inferiority complex well rooted in his personality is usually sensitive and shy, generally chooses not to join in with the crowd, expects himself to fail at each new task, does not finish his work promptly, hesitates before doing each new undertaking, and has difficulty deciding what to do next. This picture is the direct result of inferiority feelings. Frequently the compensation or camouflage, covers up the real difficulty, and the parent should look carefully behind all exaggerations in her child's conduct in search of the roots of inferiority feelings. How a child responds to his failure is of greater seriousness than the failure itself. No two children will respond exactly alike to what appears to the parent to be the same failure. Look carefully to the child's reactions to what he tries to do, and learn to detect the degree of frustration he feels in various situations. Watch especially how he feels about others in the family doing better than he does. A child sometimes begins developing inferiority feelings because he compares himself with an older and more mature brother or sister. This is particularly likely if the older one "boos" the younger for not doing so well. The younger one may be equally competent, but the greater maturity of the older one gives him an advantage. Every child is a challenging problem to his parents and should be studied and managed individually according to his specific needs.
Set rules can be set down for preventing and correcting inferiority feelings, but the remainder of this lesson will be directed to some general principles that should serve as a guide to the individual management of the child.
First of all, the child should be thoroughly examined for physical defects which might be the starting point for inferiority feelings. Obvious defects, such as birth marks, crossed eyes, paralyzed limbs or displeasing facial features are likely to have considerable significance to the child because they make him appear conspicuous. Extreme physical weakness, deafness or blindness are also common organ inferiorities. Mild visual or hearing deficiencies often cause backwardness in school work, and in turn, feelings of failure. Whenever possible the defects should be remedied. If they cannot be corrected, the child should be helped to find suitable compensations in the form of activities at which he is more certain of success. Point out to him persons like Thomas A. Edison who was partially deaf and yet achieved great fame as an inventor; John Milton who was blind and yet made significant contributions to literature; and Walter Scott, crippled from paralysis, who also became a great figure in the field of literature. Care must be taken not to urge the afflicted one to attempt the impossible and thereby increase his sense of inferiority.
A next safeguard is to prevent as far as possible other children from making fun of inferiorities of body or behavior. Parents should not call their children "good for nothing" and point out their defects in an unfriendly manner. If deficiencies are pointed out at all, it should be in a kindly manner and should be for the purpose of helping the child to meet them frankly and intelligently. Sarcasm and ridicule as forms of discipline are barbaric and should have no place in the modern home. Shame is a frequently used method that does nothing but add humiliation to a sense of failure, and arouses resentment and hatred. Severe and unjust punishments accomplish the same evil result. Children who are victims of these abuses frequently become cruel to others and attempt to destroy their happiness by disparaging remarks or interference with their activities.
Over-fond parents occasionally fail to let the child grow out of his baby clothes and be like other children. Ridicule is the most natural response of the children from whom he differs. Manners which are seriously affected and different from those of other children in the community are also the butt of much ridicule. A child's happiness in his play group and his general feeling of self-regard are really worth more than pretty curls and unsoiled linens.
As previously indicated, parents should provide tasks that will permit success with reasonable effort. This does not mean for the mother to do the task for the child, since only the successes the child himself earns bring him the satisfactions that are the basis of the habit of success. If the task is too difficult for the child, he is forced to fail; if it is too easy he does not feel the keen delight of achievement. A story is told of a man who was hired to pound logs with the blunt side of an ax for the same pay as actual chopping. By noon he quit the job because there was no challenge in it, no delight from the progress being made.
Occasionally an opportunity should be provided for the child to achieve a great success in order to let him know how success feels. We all know that life means infinitely more to us for days after a great success has followed a hard struggle. Failures are inevitable for all of us, however, and a realization of this fact takes some of the sting out of them. Everyone cannot succeed at every kind of task. Just as various birds and animals have their own way of protecting themselves?one flies, another runs, another climbs?so does each individual usually have a best field in which to succeed, however humble it may be. Because bookish things come hard to a child does not mean he cannot succeed abundantly in the use of tools or at farm work. In some cases, special talents for art or music may permit a child to succeed when ordinary social activities and academic school work are very difficult.
Many children fall into the easy error of feeling inferior all the way around just because they do not excel in everything they try. Failure to excel at one thing should stimulate the child to redouble his efforts to do well at his own line of greatest success. Abilities cannot be leveled out very well by an abundance of practice or training on the child's weak point. Better spend time at what can be done well than to discourage all effort through driving him to do what he persistently fails to do.
Parents should not make unfavorable comparisons between various children in the family. Favoritism is unfair both to the favored one and to the other. If a parent will observe carefully, she will find some one type of thing each child does well enough to deserve commendation, and it is her duty to see that he gets the satisfaction of doing that type of task, provided it is honorable.
In general, group competition is to be preferred to man-to-man contests. Prizes given to the "best" in a group should be replaced by praise or prizes to all who do as well as a certain standard. Those who cannot come up to that standard should be helped to do so, or promptly given another task that is within their reach.