(To be continued) Roses With Our Bread By La Rene King Bleecker (A sketch of the life of Lella Marler Hoggan, who wrote Keepsakes For The Treasure Chest of Life (1935) and Little Moments Of Eternity (1937). ANY queries have been reM. Ceived from our readers wanting to know more about the author of those delightful essays, "Keepsakes For The Treasure Chest Of Life,' which ran concurrently in 1935, and "Little Moments Of Eternity,' the series just completed in the December number of the Magazine. The latter essays were prepared by request, as were the splendid illustrations by Dora Marler Williams. Mrs. Hoggan and Mrs. Williams, who are sisters, live in Ogden. Their lives are very similar in that they have had to rear families, while perfecting themselves in the work they both love. As children their lives were somewhat primitive. They lived in and near Soda Springs and later Lewisville, Idaho. During the summer they often lived near the forest where their father cut logs for the saw mill. Sometimes they would live in a tent at the foot of a hill. Life took on a spirit of adventure, then, because they could climb after service berries and wild flowers. They thrilled to the rugged beauty all about them and were joyously happy. At that time Lella felt no urge to write. She sensed the mysteries of the whispering pines, the tang of the leaf mould, the flame of the sunset, but though she throbbed with the beauty of it all, her pen was inarticulate. Not until later, when she attended the B. Y. Academy at Provo, did she begin to write the things she had felt and seen. ORA, however, gave early indications of creative ability. When there was nothing else available, she would draw sketches with charcoal on pieces of bark. Throughout her girlhood and later, during married life and motherhood, she found time to sketch and paint the bits of homely, rugged beauty that lay about her in the isolated sections where she lived. At times her urge to create was so great that she sent for correspondence courses, and set avidly to work, spending long hours in perfecting herself in the thing she loved. Though she went through the fiery furnace of toil, sickness and isolation ?-suffered the loss of a loved one through death, having to rear her little ones alone, yet nothing could quench the burning desire in her heart. She would, she must, she had to give something to the world through the medium of her deft fingers. In Ogden, where she now resides, on a little blackboard in one of the schools is a picture of Bethlehem, the star, the Wise Men and the camels. This picture is so exquisitely done, that it seems almost sacrilege to erase it. In creating she has found happiness. There is such similarity in the lives of these sisters, that to write of one is almost like writing of both. LELLA MARLER HOGGAN is a name too well known in our Church publications to need an introduction. She has studied all her life. She will go on studying forever ROSES WITH OUR BREAD 39 LELLA MARLER HOGGAN. She has that rare gift which enables her to see the glad things in life?the fine and beautiful things. Lella's life has been full. In talking with her one feels that she has suffered, loved, lived and shared. Her life is crowded with events? beautiful, tragic, humorous events. Events which her skill fashions into stories. Her stories hold one amazed and interested to the end. She has known the hardships of strenuous pioneering work on a ranch in Idaho. She has known interesting years as a student at B. Y. Academy and the L. D. S. University; compensating years as a teacher in Idaho and Utah; absorbing years as sweetheart, wife and mother; sad years of widowhood; satisfying years as a writer, in which her life has been richer and more abundant. She was born in Clifton, Idaho, September 21, 1880. She was the second child in a family of seven.  Her parents were William N. Marler and May Hix. Both were born and reared in the Church. Lella's father was a Southerner, congenial, humorous and with a heart for all humanity. Her mother was of New England ancestry, idealistic and esthetic. Lella says there was never a time when her mother "just kept house". She loved to do fine, intricate needlework, and to paint and read. If she ever sensed the hardships of life in the primitive places in which the family lived from time to time she never complained. Often she taught school in her own home, so that her children would not fall behind in their studies. "T just had to do right," Lella explained. "My mother expected so much of me that I couldn't disappoint her. She was always a constant source of inspiration to me." 'Another thing I could never forget," explained Lella, "was the fact that my grandparents and greatgrandparents had gone through the trials and sufferings of the early Church. I could not fail them. I felt they had sacrificed too much." Lella and Dora are descendants of Ezra Chase and Tirzah Wells Chase, who settled in Harrisville, Utah. Their daughter, Charlotte Chase Hix, Lella's grandmother, was a remarkable woman, with trends similar to her daughter and granddaughters. She did all the things that they have done. Lella has samples of her embroidering and water colors. She taught school in the early days in Harrisville, loved to work and be with young people. She could remember the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum. She at one time attended the Prophet's school, her teachers being Parley and Orson Pratt, whom she ardently admired. But it is not this remarkable woman whom Lella resembles. She loves to tell about her stern great grandfather and his little Quaker wife, Tirzah. For it is Tirzah who lives again in Lella. She was quiet and gentle, always said "thee" and "thine," and always wore Quaker bonnets with ruffles of lace. Lella has the same kind eyes and gentle mouth, the same profile, the same retiring, unassuming nature. DORA MARLER WILLIAMS Somewhere I have read that a truly great person appears never to be ina hurry. Lella is that kind of person. She has time to live, to enjoy her family and friends. She is poised, serene and gentle. It is only when one sums up the amount of work she does that one realizes her ability to keep calm and unruffled. Despite the strain of earning a living and keeping up a home for her family. It is this quality of serenity perhaps more than any other ROSES WITH OUR BREAD 41 trait that has helped her in writing her essays. When asked how she came to write Keepsakes and Little Moments Of Eternity, she replied with a twinkle in her eyes: "When trouble crowded _ too closely in my own life, I had to form some sort of guiding philosophy to help me carry on. When it proved helpful to me, I felt that I had to share it with others. I truly believe what I teach. All the treasures of earth could not buy the blessings my philosophy has brought me." On October 4, 1905, Lella married James D. Hoggan in the Salt Lake Temple. They had been married only five weeks when he went on a three-year mission to Holland. When he returned, they made their home for a time in Lewisville, Idaho, then in Tooele, and later in Ogden. They were very happy and congenial and their marriage relations were sacred and beautiful. "My days are filled with thrills and worries just as all mothers' days are,' Mrs. Hoggan says. 'While my husband was alive we were very happy. Jim was kind and thoughtful, a good father to our five children, and I have only tender memories of our life and work together for twenty-one years. When he died in October, 1926, our faith helped us to carry on. We think of him as being "just away" and we plan our work in harmony with the standards for which he was striving. 'What would Daddy want us to do?' is a question often asked in our home. There have been many crosses and losses since we were left alone, but life still finds us without bitterness and unafraid." "I have tried to help my children stand on their own feet, to be dependable and independent; to instill into their minds that cleanliness, honesty and kindness are the most necessary virtues. We have tried to find the happy side of life and to read good books." Mrs. Hoggan reads humor, poetry, religious books, philosophy and essays. She doesn't have much time for fiction. In her little library at home she has row upon row of books and can find at a moment's notice, anything she wishes in writing her essays. She has written for all the Church publications; "Health Talks" for The Character Builder; letters on child-training for parents' magazines, as well as biographical sketches for the Fred G. Taylor Family's "Book Of Remembrance." Her best work however, has been her essays. In these she has interpreted the teachings of the Gospel. "I was guided by a power higher than: my own. I truly did not write them," she said. "I was only the instrument." Mrs. Hoggan really lives true to her philosophy. It has worked in her life, broadened it, given her "feet of courage" to walk through life unafraid. It has given her "Roses with her bread." Beautiful spiritual roses! Roses that shed fragrance in her life and in the lives of others! The August, 1936 issue of the Improvement Era contains this appealing little poem in which Lella Marler Hoggan has expressed the fervent wish of both herself and her artist sister, Dora: "In winter's cold, in summer's heat we toil Through the long stretches of the day, Dear Lord, give us bread, we pray. And if our task be worthy of the hire, Our measure full and true, Dear Lord, may we not have roses, too?"