Notes From The Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary WEST JORDAN STAKE, BINGHAM WARD West Jordan Stake "THE above picture shows the Bingham Ward Relief Society. This was taken following a bazaar held in this Ward. The sisters, both young and old, are most eager to cooperate in carrying on the Relief Society program, and in aiding the Church Security in its beautification program. The sisters realize that the improvement of Relief Society meeting places does much to stimulate interest in the organization and build up the morale of the members. They have therefore determined to do all in their power to raise funds and help carry on this work. This was the objective of the bazaar held, which had most satisfactory results. Cache Stake "THE Fifth Ward Relief Society is the author of a very delightful little newspaper which carries out the program of the Relief Society. It gives the news of the Relief Society and what it offers the sisters. It also tells what Relief Society does for the individual members. All items of interest pertaining to other Church organizations are listed in this fine little paper, and call attention to the fact that the Relief Society women are following the admonition of the Prophet to safeguard the morals of the people, and to stimulate all to good works. The Cache Stake has done some splendid work in the furthering of the library idea, and very gratifying effects have followed the efforts of the sisters in this particular. The inspiration from associating with wonderful women, and the ideals set forth, makes for fuller and richer lives.  TAHITIAN Utah Stake MOST splendid report of the year's activity comes from the Utah Stake. A very delightful social given in the summer of this year offered opportunity for the Stake Relief Society to give a concrete expression of its various activities. More than six hundred women assembled at this time, and awards were made to those having 100% visiting-teaching records during the year and to those realizing the slogan of reading the Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. There was a large percentage of the women who had a perfect attendance record at the regular meetings. Prizes were given to the Wards who could show the greatest number of women in these activities. There were three Magazine Agents who received more than 100% subscriptions. The splendid entertainment was carefully prepared and conducted with the efficiency characteristic of this enterprising stake. A In October of this year the Utah Stake held its Visiting Teachers' convention, at which time there were in attendance 375 Visiting Teachers. Here again the Wards met in friendly rivalry as to which could show the MISSION most Visiting Teachers in attendance. Following the regular convention a one-act play was presented, and the affair proved to be one of great enthusiasm and interest, a splendid beginning for a most promising' year's work. Tahitian Mission ROM far away Tahiti comes the above picture. Sister M. Maude Woodbury writes that she is very much encouraged with the Relief Society work on these Islands. For the first time in the history of the Mission the lessons for all the auxiliaries are being prepared and sent out to the Saints and Elders in the monthly paper published at Mission Headquarters. A copy of the paper came to the. Office. The lack of books is a serious handicap in conducting the lessons, but the Mission President and those associating with her are doing a splendid work in simplifying the lessons. The Child Guidance lessons are particularly valuable here. The sisters do greatly appreciate the Relief Society Magazine, and the President reads to them the things which she feels will fit their needs best. The choice poems and articles on many phases of life and about many people, and the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 53 NORTH IDAHO news items are of keen interest to these people so far removed. Carbon and North Idaho Falls Stakes HE spirit of Daughter's Day is certainly being typified in the lovely reports that come into the office from the various stakes and wards of the Church. Young women FALLS STAKE are associating with their mothers, and learning the spirit of Relief Society, the inspiration that it is to them in their future work, and the great aids they will get in the broad educational program. The two above pictures, first Carbon Stake, and second North Idaho Falls Stake, are typical of the groups who are participating in this wonderful movement,