The Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde NO. I?RHYTHMIC PERIOD "Could we give one gift to every child We should choose the love of books.''* ?William Fredrick Bigelow. HERE is nothing a child ever learns afterward which will enter into his essence of being as the stories told by his mother. Nothing else so intimately binds children and mother together." This is the conclusion of a woman who has spent her life in the study of children. The experiments of scientists and psychologists of today point to the fact that human destiny is largely shaped by the nurture or neglect of infancy and early childhood. There is truth in the old saying, "Give me the child until he is seven and I care not who has him afterward." Important as we feel the school is in this item of training, the influence of the mother, father and family largely determines the making or the marring of our children, for the greater part of every 24 hours belongs to the home. While the father is important, the mother is fundamental in assuring the stability and success of her children. The home is undoubtedly the greatest single influence during the early years of childhood. Ig is the opinion of many wise and thoughtful teachers that more than any other influence does the home reading of a child determine his destiny. How, then, may we create a taste for good reading and cultivate the habit of reading in the right manner? Courtesy "Good Housekeeping Magazine.? For all parents who would really know books in their relation to growing children, it is a good thing to go back to the spirit of their own childhood and get a first-hand knowledge of books. 'There is no more pleasant hobby, for it carries one into the realm of literature, one of the richest of storehouses and one that is never outgrown. Books may be ornaments, tools, or friends. Why not begin right away to use them to develop the zsthetic and moral side of our children. It is a law of learning that we will learn those things which give us the most satisfaction. Our problem, then, is to give the thing we feel our children need in the way that interests them. One of the surest ways to achieve this end is to teach with stories. Everyone loves a story. It was Christ's method of teaching the fundamental principles of Christianity. At the age of two or three the child needs stories short and simple in plot. Mother Goose rhymes, of course, stir the imagination and train the rhythmic sense. Mrs. Mitchell's collection of "Here and Now Stories??told by children themselves, about their own adventures?are of the right sort. This age calls for plenty of animal stories which develop sympathy for animal friends. By 5 or 6 years of age a child is ready for other good stories, not too long and still simple. He likes plenty of repetition?repetition which is wearisome to adults; but this story telling must go on, never in a sentimnental way, but in a soft, clear  voice, in a direct and natural manner. The fairy story now has its place. Not the gruesome tales of giants and ogres, but the type out of which come the influences which sweeten and deepen life. To most children the fairy tale brings the first clear distinction between good and evil, thus awakening and developing a moral sense. Cinderella does this very thing. There is a class of unimaginative people who object to the teaching of fairy tales, preferring to teach useful facts. Yet there seems to be something in children which craves the thing that a good fairy story provides. Hear the beauty in the lines of Anderson's "Pea Blossom." This story has a perfect beginning: "There were once five peas in one shell; they were green, the shell was green, and so they believed the whole world was green also, which was a very natural conclusion." Then the story goes on to tell how after the peas had ripened, they were picked up and shot from a boy's shooter into a crevice near an attic window where lay a sick maiden with no interest in life. One of the peas took root aid grew and brought joy and health to the child. Then the story ends: "But as the young maiden stood at the open garret window, with sparkling eyes and the rosy hue of health on her cheeks, she folded her thin hands over the pea blossom and thanked God for what he had done." This like all other good fairy stories contains a great underlying principle of truth. It is the type which gives "wings to your soul." Without imagination life is at best a dreary thing. As we grow older we may forget these imaginative tales, but they have done their work and we pass almost unconsciously from the "Hansel and Gretel" whose joy is in a magic house of sugar plums, to the more practical problems of life. TOO much emphasis cannot be placed upon poetry. Even at an early age when too young to understand it, a child catches the rhythm of the lines and the sublimity of the thought of a beautiful poem. The story of Hiawatha can be told to a very little child, interspersed with the original lines. Notice the simplicity of this: "And the rabbit from his pathway Sat erect upon his haunches.. Saying to the little hunter,  ?Do not. Shoot me, Hiawatha!? Note the beauty of this, speaking of the care of Nokomis for Hiawatha: "Rocked him in his linden cradle, Bedded soft in moss and rushes; Stilled his fretful wail by saying, 'Hush! The naked Bear will hear thee'!" S IT not possible, with some definite plan, to develop in our children an appreciation for the cultural things of life? Remembering always that, "As their dreams are, so are they; They shape in thought what soon they shape in deed. And what they daily hold within They grow to be." Suggested Books: "Golden Goose Book," by Leslie Brooks, is one of the best picture books for children. ""Anderson's Fairy Tales'' has always delighted children. "The Children's Book," by Horrace E. Scudder, is one of the best story collections. If purchasing but one of the ? "The Children's Book" is recommended.