[Vol11 | March 1924 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Stories Show Human Side of Woodrow Wilson]

stories as a mental relaxation was one of his most famous traits.

"There are blessed intervals," he said, "when I forgot by one means or another that I am President of the United States.

One is to get a rattling good detective story, get after some imaginary offender and chase him all over the country." As President Woodrow Wilson became an ardent golfer, not of the fair weather kind merely but one whose love for the open sent him out over: the course in a driving rain or with snow on the ground.

Returning one afternoon from a long walk through the snow after a game at the Columbia Country Club links, the President, being late, made a short cut to the White House through the Interior Department building.

He found a sign which said, "No admission after 2 o'clock." In answer to his summons the doorkeeper came out, eyed him in a somewhat hostile fashion and said: _. "Well, what do you want, and who are you?" "I'm Mr. Woodrow Wilson," said the President with a smile.; "Well, well," said the doorkeeper, finally, with recognition, "I thought your face looked familiar." * There is perhaps living yet in Los Angeles a girl who, nearly ten years ago, called upon President Wilson.

She went there with a definite determination, as this little story will illustrate.

"Mr. President," said Laura May Reilly, the miss in question, "won't you please kiss me?" "With the greatest pleasure," said the President, and he gave the petitioner a kiss right on her cupid bow lips.

"T'm seven going on eight,' said Miss Laura May, "and my father told me to ask the President for a kiss and bring it back to Los Angeles, and I'm going to do it." *% OK President Wilson was very fond of young children, and very tender toward the afflicted.

One day a long and distinguished line of callers was kept waiting while the President, stepping to one side, shook hands with John W. Kern Jr., son of Senator Kern.

The boy had been a victim of infantile paralysis and was there on crutches hoping the might be greeted by the President.

The President not only shook his hands, but gave the eager, grateful boy several minutes of his time.

STORIES ABOUT WOODRORW WILSON 137 The independence of Woodrow Wilson exemplified itself not only in matters of politics and statecraft, but in divers other ways.

He aroused curiosity among associates in Washington by using for the ordinary "O. K." the then strange word "okeh." It was supposed that this was a whim, no one imagining it had an authoritative basis.

However, it developed that the initials "O. K." stood for the ancient word "okeh,"' which the President had resurrected.: m ?+ Among the President's accomplishments but one which he very modestly concealed, was that of singing.

"Father has a beautiful voice," said Miss Margaret Wilson.

"It is really of fine quality, but he has not sung much except in concerts at college." * * * Possibly the most exciting days of his political career were in the New Jersey campaigns when he was the Democratic candidate for governor.

Although his candidacy, was promoted and supported by Jim Smith, so-called boss of the State.

Wilson broke with him during the campaign.

After his election and inauguration, one of Smith's henchmen called upon him in the executive offices and denounced him for going back on "the boss." "You are no gentleman," roared the caller.

"And you are no judge," replied the governor, showing him the door. ** Mrs. Wilson still retains, as one of her most prized possessions, the gold vanity case which the President gave her as a wedding present.

In a place designed to hold a photograph she placed and still keeps the President's favorite picture of himself. * Secret service men assigned to guard the President always had.

A difficult time keeping track of Mr. Wilson.

Like Harounal-Raschid he loved to steal away and mingle with the crowds.

One night, with Col. E. M. House, he left his quarters in New York and together they explored a part of the city, chiefly Broadway and Fifth Avenue.

At length the President was recognized and a great crowd soon was following.

The two distinguished companions escaped at Forty-third and Broadway by slipping into a building and going out the back way.

Then, like two young fellows out for a lark, they boarded a bus and vanished.

During the jaunt the President came upon a suffragette haranguing a crowd.

That was in the day of very tense business in the suffragette line.

She offered the President a tract, but he laughingly refused the proffer.. 
 He was continually breaking Presidential precedents.

Early in his first term he left for Philadelphia by auto to consult an oculist.

Exhilarated by the freedom he took lunch in a public dining room, strolled through the streets and into stores, returned to Washington in a public railroad coach and was driven to the White House in a hired automobile. * Although he was a man of striking individual appearance, President Wilson oftentimes was not recognized.

Up in Cornish, Vt., the keeper of the toll bridge over the Connecticut River had recetved from the President the 15-cent impost a number of times, but, on account of faulty eyesight or lack of attention, he had never recognized his distinguished customer.

But one day, looking somewhat closer, he had a revelation and asked: "Aren't you the President of the United States?" Mr. Wilson smiling acknowledged that he was.

The toll taker was about to forego the 15 cents, but decided differently. ?Los Angeles Examiner.

NOTES WOMEN'S PROGRESS Miss Gildersleeve Speaks at Columbia Cornerstone Exercises In an address at the laying of the cornerstone of 'the new residence hall for women at-Columbia University yesterday afternoon Miss Virginia C. Gildersleeve, Dean of Barnard College, declared that the event was a monument to the enormous progress being made by women in higher education.

University records show that last year the enrollment in the three main divisions making up the student body included 18,269 women and 15,194 men.

The largest number of women was registered in the Summer session, where the total reached 8,295. There were 5,572 in the undergraduate, graduate and professional schools, and 4,402 in university extension, Officers, trustees and members of the university's faculties witnessed yesterday's exercises.

The stone was put in place by President Nicholas Murray Butler?New York Times. 
 "T want one friend left in the world," replied Tom sadly.

The two went home and here is what Bill found out.

Tom's wife laid a stack of unpaid bills upon the table.

They were added up and totaled nearly a thousand dollars.

Some of them had been running for a year or more.

There were with them curt notes demanding the money.

A few questions, tactfully put, brought out the fact that Tom and Mary used no system whatever in their expenditures.

They were in fact, up in the air.

They bought what ever they fancied without regard for price.

They had had hopes of saving a little money when they started out with married life but had never made the start and therefore no habit of thrift had ever been cultivated.

Now, as _ things stood, it was even hopeless to think of such a thing.

There was nothing left but the worry and the attempt to get along as best they could.

After Bill had all the facts he said: "There is a way to pull out of this mess, but before you start it will be necessary to make a strong resolution and never break it.

I will show you a plan that leads to success.

That plan is a little book I'm going to make out for you." "Little book?

What do you mean by that?" Bill smiled and picking up a ruled account book from the table said:. "You owe this little book just one thousand' dollars.

Sup- 'pose I loaned you a thousand.

How much could you pay back each month if you denied yourselves a few luxuries?" Tom looked at his wife as if asking her the question.

"We should be able to pay a hundred dollars," replied Mary.

"Of course, it would make us do without a lot of things we have been used to, but we could do it, in a pinch." "Well, that is exactly the scheme of this book.

Your first creditor is Sam Jones.

We write his name on the first page with the amount we owe him.

We do that with each creditor until we have them all down in the book.

"Now run over the pages and try and divide one hundred dollars among your creditors to be paid on the first of the month, without fail.

You're lucky.

There are just twenty creditors.

Tom you don't owe every man in the town, just twenty of them.

Divide one hundred dollars by twenty and you owe each of them five dollars on the first of each month.

Easy.

Isn't it?" "They won't stand for it," said Tom.

"Oh yes they will.

They will be glad to stand for it, Tom, when they know that you are working on a system which will assure them that they will get every cent you owe them inside of a year.

Remember, though, that the success ofthis scheme depends upon faithfulness in making your payments." WHY WORRY?  "That should work out," said Tom, his face lighting up with a hopeful smile, the first in months.

"It will, Tom.

Depend on it.

Give Mary what is left after the book is paid and run no further bills." "Pay cash," said Mary, "that's what I've always wanted to do, but never had it." "You'll have it from now on,' ' smiled Bill as he took his departure. * * * It was nearly three years later that I happened to meet Torn and Mary on the street.

Both looked prosperous and happy.

As I was a good friend of both I asked: "Doing any worrying, Tom?" He' laughed heartily.

"Not a bit.

Never realized what a poison thing worry was until Bill put me right.

Not only did we pay all those bills like he said we would, but Mary got so used to economy and thrift that we only have a month or two left petore we pay ay on our new home.

I tell you?," "We put the price of the new home on the little book too," interrupted Mary, "we got so used to paying that hundred dollars that when we were clear of debt we just naturally had to have that little book.

Habit, you see.

So charged our home on it and paid off the first of each month.

It's the best ever?

SYSTEM, THRIFT and no WORRYING allowed in our home." "Were you ever tempted to skip a month?" "No sir.

The first of each month was a great event in our lives.

After checking off the various names as paid, when Tom _ handed me what was left, you would think by looking at his face that he had just been elected president of the United States." The entire object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things, but enjoy the right things?not merely industrious, but to love industry?not merely learned, but to love knowledge?not merely pure, but to love purity?not merely just, but to hunger and thirst after justice?John Ruskin.

Are we Pharisees?

By Grace Ingles Frost The place was the dining room of a large, technical institution in a western state.

The time, that hour when all employees met to partake of the midday meal.

At one.

Table sat the women, at other tables the men were seated.

It was optional whether either faction so much as greeted the other.

Howsoever, on this particular day perfect harmony seemed to prevail, if one might accurately judge from appearance.

Not the slightest cloud obscured the mental horizon of those present.

General conversation, combined with now and then a ripple of laughter, gave one the impression that these people might be members of one congenial family at meat.

Just previous to the serving of dessert, a belated arrival entered the room.

This person, a man, without speaking to anyone, unobtrusively seated himself at one of the tables occupied by those of his sex.

Several of the men near him greeted him jovially.

The majority of the men present paid no attention to him, apparently accepting his presence as an ordinary occurrence.

At the women's table conditions were different.

Many eyes were raised questioningly, but no comments were expressed verbally, except by one person.

She was a woman of unusually refined appearance, who remarked to her neighbor that the stranger's presence in the room was presumptuous and altogether intolerable.

As her mind dwelt upon the circumstance of the man being in their midst, the color in her face deepened and her hands trembled in their efforts to raise the food to her lips.

If one could have followed the gyration of this 'woman's mind, one would have heard a mental monologue somewhat along this line: 'What right has such a creature to enter the room with such as I and attempt to deliberately 'break bread' with me?

I have been raised not to associate with such as he, a criminal.

I will not tolerate such an indignity offered to my womanhood." To the woman's mind the act of the stranger who had so inoffensively entered the room where she ate, had grown to the proportion of a personal affront.

She became unjust in her self-righteousness to the extent of untruth, for the man had not attempted to break bread with her.

Pushing aside her plate, the woman arose from the table.

ARE WE PHARISEES? 143 With head raised haughtily and the flame of indignation burning in her cheeks, she left the room in search of one in authority to inquire if she must be subject to such insult.

The conference was satisfactory to her.

The man was told to remain away from the room while other employees were present.

He must eat alone.

And the man?

Yes, he had committed a very serious offense.

He was a sinner, but a repentant one.

He was striving to obliterate his past by his service to others, and to make his present and future atone for his error.

He was not the woman's equal in intelligence, nor breeding, probably, but he was doing his best.

The mind of another individual who was seated that day at the table occupied by the women employees of this institution, was also extremely active.

At first this person felt a trifle shocked at the man's presence and then her mind traveled back nearly two thousand years.

She saw mentally a woman taken by certain self-righteous Pharisees, before One who was without sin.

The words spoken upon that memorable occasion reechoed in her ears.

The reply, too, of the Master in all its ners as this man, whom the woman with her delicate sensibilities, had refused to permit to remain in the same room with her.

Yet the woman professed to follow the meek and lowly Jesus, professed, indeed, to be a devout believer in the mission of her Redeemer.

Was her conduct consistent with her profession of faith?

You who read these lines may answer.

Feet, after she had first washed them with her tears and wiped them dry with her luxuriant tresses.

The Master did not banish this sinner from his Presence.

He even permitted her to kiss his feet on this occasion.

And when the self-righteous Pharisee 
 forgave most, loved that Master most.

Was not the scene which was acted in the dining room cf this institution that day a great contrast to the one which occurred in that house in Palestine almost two thousand years ago?

After these many years of professed Christianity, shall we still advocate and practice the same self-righteousness that was practiced by those whom the Master we acknowledge as divine, has denounced as not being of him?

Is it not time for us who call ourselves Christians to cease throwing stones and more truly help those who are repentant sinners to arise again?

We cannot do so by drawing our garments aside lest perchance contact with the unfortunate shall contaminate us.

When our Lord was reproached by his enemies for eating with publicans and sinners, this was his reply, "I come not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance."" And, said he, "They who are whole need not a physician.' Only the selfrighteous Pharisee prays, "God, I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican." Remember, the poor, sinning publican standing afar off, who would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, hut smote upon his breast saying, '"God, be merciful to me, a sinner,' was more justified in the sight of God than was the other.

How many of us today practice introspection?

Those of us who do so know whether we are truly followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, or whether we are just Pharisees after all; Pharisees who are throwing stones or mud to thwart the plans of him who was lifted upon the Cross that he might draw all men unto him from the darkness unto light.

To obey the law is to be a true democrat.

If every man thinks every law must suit him in order that he shall obey it, he is not a democrat but an anarchist.

The basis of good government is obedience to law as people have determined it to be.

Young men should be trained to know that to be patriotic and democratic members of society they must realize what it means, not only what it means to obey, but to instill the act of obedience in others.? Chief Justice Taft.