[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W.
Cannon burial in Ririe, the family received a petition signed by most of the citizens of Franklin asking that she be brought back there for interment. The family complied with the wishes of the community. FeXECUTIVE Director of the "" Children's Book Council in New York City is a former Utahn, Sybil V. Jacobson.
This council sponsors National Book Week and Mrs.
Jacobson originated the theme of the Week, "Make Friends with Books," as well as seventeen other publicity ideas. She corresponds with teachers, librarians, parents, and children, and hopes to increase last year's attendance of 25,000 children at the great New York Book Fair to 125,000 this year. HE death of Marie Anderson Dorius, 88, in September, prevented the planned celebration with her husband, John Dorius, of their seventieth wedding anniversary in October. The couple were noted for their beautiful garden.
Their daughter, Hazel D. Moyle, has written many articles about flowers in The Relief Society Magazine and for other publications as beautifully as she raises them.  CQ—D EDITORIAL 9 
VOL. 
Open the Book of the Year ACH New Year is like an unopened book lying before us— a book in which all the pages are clear and white, awaiting the written words that will mark the coming days and weeks. On these pages, where now are only the intangibles —hope and expectation and wonder —there will be much written concerning our own decisions and.
Accomplishments in all the ways over which we can exercise control; and there will be written ftrther our reactions and our adjustments to those numerous events which we can neither bring to pass nor yet prevent their coming. Thus, all our activities and all our thoughts and emotions will be conditioned by our free agency within the span of the natural laws which were established with the earth's creation.
During the last century, and particularly during the last fifty years, much has happened which has caused many people to lose confdence in themselves and in their destiny.
Some interpretations of scientific theories would lessen the stature of man and confuse the direction of his development.
Certain social theories declare that the earth span is all of life and hence there is no necessity to consider the immortal soul.
With no former home, and no future goal for aspiration, these theories maintain that man need consider only his adjustments here.
With all the communicative arts  and sciences so highly developed as we find them today, there are none of us who can escape exposure to the ever-changing interpretations of life around us. Nor would we wish to be unaware of our environment nor unconcerned with the problems and perplexities of our time. In the midst of conflicting theories, it is a comfort and an ever-present help to know that we are given prophetic direction for the conduct of our own lives and for our adjustment to the world as a whole. We may well believe with the poet who said: "What canst thou find with seeking which hath not long been found?" And this is true in the sense that codes of personal conduct have been upon the earth since the far-off beginnings. And these commandments and covenants have been given deeper meaning and more lofty significance by prophets and teachers over the centuries. An integral part of the life pattern, giving it strength and depth and direction, is this realization that we know our pathway, in its larger aspects, and that there is always opportunity for improvement and development. 'There are none of us who live as fully as we know how to live, and we realize the truth of Wordsworth's lines: Though inland far we be, Our souls have sight of that immortal sea Which brought us hither. From Intimations of Immortality V. P. C. Vo TO THE FIELD Relief Society Assigned &vening Mleeting of Fast Sunday in ITlarch HE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day in March 1950, has been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society.
Suggestive plans for this evening meeting are being prepared by the general board and will be sent to the stakes in bulletin form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting. Oo Bound Volumes of 1949
Reliof Society Tlagazines RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1949 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through the office of the General Board, 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The cost. For binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $1.75, including the index. If the leather binding is preferred the cost is $2.75. If bound volumes are requested and the Magazines for binding are not supplied by the person making the request, the charge for furnishing the Magazines will be $1.50, which will be added to the cost of the binding, thus making the total cost for cloth-bound volumes $3.25 and for leatherbound volumes $4.25. Only a limited number of Magazines are available for binding. It is suggested that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1948
Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. ~~» Jemporary Binders Available QUBSTANTIAL temporary binders, into which single copies of the Magazine for one year may be inserted or removed at will, are available for $1.20 postpaid. ~~ Award Subscriptions Presented Yn April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1949 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1950. Page 33 DR. FLORENCE J. MADSEN Photograph taken at the rehearsal of the Singing Mothers Chorus which furnished music for the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28 and 29, 1949. Su estive List O Son s for Sin in Nlothers gg g ging (Three-part unless otherwise specified ) Florence J. Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board
SONGS FOR LADIES CHORUS
Title Composer and Number Publisher My Heart Is a Silent Violin Fox-Andrews, No. C. M.5217
Carl Fischer (easy range) Jesus Our Lord We Adore Thee James, No. 8870 G. Schirmer Rain (easy range) Russell, No. 3148
Chappell and Co. Seek Ye the Lord Roberts, No. 8938 G. Schirmer A Song Remembered Goates, No. 3105 G. Schirmer (easy range) | The Charm of Spring Clarke, No. 3110 G. Schirmer I Have a Rendezvous With Life Lover Come Back to Me Send Forth Thy Spirit My Own America Page 34 O'Hara, No. 3007
Romberg, No. 2H3003
Schuetky, No. 1075
Wrubel, No. R 2260 (three- -part chorus) Frank Pallma Music Publishing Co. Harms, Tic. Pro Arts Robbins Music Corp. SUGGESTIVE LIST OF SONGS My Own America How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings I Will Lift Mine Eyes I Do Not Ask, O Lord Wrubel, No. R 2258 (two-part chorus) Liddle-Cain, No. 1758
Spross, No. 35460
Spross, No. 35103 35
Robbins Music Corp. 'Boosey-Hawkes John Church Co. Pe Church Co. The Twenty-Third Psalm Malotte, No. 9471 G. Schirmer (three-part chorus) The Twenty-Third Psalm Malotte, No. 9470 G. Schirmer (two-part chorus ) Voices of the Sky (Christmas) Matthews, No. 9519 G. Schirmer O Saviour of the World (good Goss, No. 9588 G.
Schirmer for Easter ) Send Out Thy Light Gounod, No. 7858 G. Schirmer The Birthday of a King Neidlinger, No. 8878 G. Schirmer (easy range) (three-part chorus) The Birthday of a King (easy) Neidlinger, No. 7246 G. Schirmer (two-part chorus ) I Walked Today Where O'Hara, No. 8723 G. Schirmer Jesus Walked (three-part chorus) I Walked Today Where O'Hara, No. 8933 G. Schirmer Jesus Walked (two-part chorus) A Letter From Mother MY DEAR CHILDREN: I have let several days pass since receiving your wonderful letter, and it has not been entirely due to my busy hours. I have been thinking how to answer your question: "How can we teach our little children the right attitude toward life?" I was almost immediately reminded of one of my friends, who has nearly achieved a doctor's degree in child and parental psychology. Her system in the training of children is to ask "Is that kind?" All else is subject to that one scrutiny. If it is a kind thing to do, that is sufficient cause for doing it. No other correction is given so that, hearing that searching remark constantly, the little folks begin to make their own decisions based upon the thought "Is it kind?" If so, the act is justified. I believe it applies to most human behavior. If we train ourselves in the philosophy of kindness to others, we are safe.
Once we have mastered the art of being kind, it should be easier for us to mold ourselves to the beautiful pattern of life which the Lord has given to us. I hope this answers your question satisfactorily, because I believe it is an idea that wears well, and can bear studying.
Perhaps that would be a good New Year's resolution—or are you making a list this year as you used to do when you were here at home? One of my most treasured memories is the sight of busy fingers writing pages of resolutions. Remember? _ What treasures you were—you are. You have brought me so much happiness. My New Year's wish for you is that your own dear children will bring you the same joy and satisfaction that you have given to me. I love you. MOTHER Clara Horne Park Suggestions for a Work Meeting ouncheon Christine Eaton SANDWICH SPREAD (Makes about 50 sandwiches) 2 cans corned beef or any pressed _ 3 tbsp.
Prepared horse radish loaves of meat 7 2 tbsp.
Prepared mustard ' tsp. Pepper: | | salad dressing Grind corned beef, add pepper, horse radish, and mustard and enough salad dressing to make a good paste. I find that in making a spread out of meat it goes much farther than just to slice the meat. APPLE, CELERY, AND RAISIN SALAD (Serves 50) qts. Cut apples 4 tsp. Salt 1% qts. Cut celery | 1 tsp. Paprika 3 'cups raisins 1% cups salad oil Y%, cup lemon juice 2 tbsp. Sugar Stew raisins slowly in as little water as possible until plump and tender, but not mushy, then drain and save liquid.
Beat together oil, seasoning, lemon, and sugar and six or eight tablespoons of raisin water.
Peel apples, quarter, and slice crosswise. The slices should be thick enough not to break. Cut celery in quarter-inch slices.
Marinate apples and celery in oil mixture and let stand thirty minutes, drain, add raisins.
Serve on shredded lettuce with mayonnaise dressing to which whipped cream has been added.
Dates may be used instead of raisins.
They need not be cooked. GUMDROP BARS (Makes about 40 cookies) 2 cups sifted flour 2 cups brown sugar 1 tsp. Cinnamon., " cup evaporated milk Y% tsp. Salt | 1 cup soft gumdrops (omit licorice) 3 eggs 7 | "' cup chopped nut meats Sift flour, salt, and cinnamon together.
Beat eggs until light and beat in sugar and milk gradually, then add the flour mixture in thirds, beating until smooth after each addition; add gumdrops and nuts, spread in a greased pan, and bake in oven at 325° F. For 35 minutes. Cut into bars 1 x 3 inch.
Spread tops with frosting and decorate with pieces of gumdrops. FROSTING Confectioners Icing 2 cups confectioners sugar 3 to 4 tbsp. Cream 1 tbsp.
Melted butter —, 1 tsp. Vanilla Blend the ingredients thoroughly, using enough cream to make the icing easy to spread.
Spread over the cookies while they are still slightly warm. Page 36
Dark in the Chrysalis (Continued from page 26) day, when her true feelings had tumbled out in words. Maybe it would be better just to ignore this moming's episode. Half-heartedly, Edith opened the paper to the want ads. Everything in her rebelled against the thought of trusting herself into the workaday world, where the tides of life run ruthlessly swift. Sliding her fingers down the column was more a gesture of self-pity than a sincere seeking. Housekeepers, waitresses, and saleswomen seemed to be the only openings, none of them suited to her., As she was laying the paper aside, her eyes caught one item: '""Wanted: Companion for aged lady. Very little to do. Comfortable room with salary.", Well, a job like that would certainly solve the difficulty, providing one wanted it. Edith didn't. Since the "Women Want Work" column was twice as long as "Help Wanted, Female," this plum would long since have been plucked, anyway. Nevertheless, to salve her conscience, to say she had tried, she went to the telephone and dialed the number listed. A man's voice answered. Edith summoned her sweetest voice and said, "My name is Edith Ashe, Mrs. Marvin Ashe. I am calling in answer to your advertisement." She was prepared for a flood of questions, or to be told that the position was filled. Instead, his breath came out in relief. "Mrs. Marvin Ashe? I'm so glad you called. No one else has called yet, and I was getting desperate. I have to leave for Chicago at nine o'clock in the morning. Can you be here at eight? Call a cab and come to 1218
North Walnut. I'll pay your fare. Can you do that?" "IT guess so. Yes," said Edith hesitatingly. "Fine! I'll depend upon that," he said, and hung up. Edith stood by the telephone, undecided whether to call him back and refuse this preposterous arrangement. What kind of man would hire a person without question? She would call him, yes—later. Now she could still feel the urgency of his voice. She went upstairs to look over her clothes and toilet articles— just in case, her knees feeling peculiarly weak and her head light with unreality. Kit would make short work of this silliness. * Ke Ke "Well, mother. You just can't do it," declared Kit matter-of-factly when she told them at dinner. Annette's eyes widened apprehensively and sought Kit's. Kit nodded slightly. "What's his number? I'll call him now." "T've left the poor man depending upon me. No doubt he's told other applicants the place is filled. Of course I shall go." Annette's eyes filled with tears. "Mother," she said, "I've hoped all day that you didn't hear me this morning. I'm so ashamed, and so sorry. That's it, isn't it?" (To be continued) Page 37
You Can Learn (Continued from page 29) what has happened to us. She always has the water boiling and is ready to start by the time I get there," | said as I guided Freckles through the lane gate. "Mother does, too; she is such an early riser," Mary assented. "We don't get done any too early, though, and I have to go around the ward for the Relief Society this afternoon." "Mother has to go, too. She won't be there to worry about me overdoing if I get part of my ironing done while I am down there where I can use the electric iron. She always says I try to kill myself in one day, but I just love to iron with the electric iron. I guess I'm spoiled. She doesn't like me to take the baby's clothes in, a piece here and there as they dry and spoil the looks of her beautiful lines, either," I sighed. "Well, there is one thing about driving Freckles," Mary said, with her usual optimism, "we can take the short cut and cross the river. It is just about as quick that way with the horse as it is the other way in the car." "Yes, and that way we come into the east part of town and don't have to be seen on Main Street with this outfit,' I teased. Mey didn't like to be seen driving the horse. She said we and the two old ladies from Scrabble Flats were the only ones who had to go to town in a buggy Well, I knew a lot of farm women who didn't get to town unless they Page 38 waited for their men folks to take them. At least Freckles got us there. "Yes, there or someplace," Mary chuckled, reminding me of the time when he took the bit between his teeth and took us right up over the railroad tracks. We had a good laugh remembering that, although it wasn't funny at the time. "There isn't much water left in the river this time of the year is there?" I asked dreamily as my eyes wandered appreciatively over the view of the valley before us.
Freckles took advantage of me, as usual, and took a short cut up over the bank, very nearly upsetting the whole outfit. "You'll have to quit daydreaming," Mary said, a trifle reprovingly, as she pushed the pans of butter back under the seat. "How many pounds did you get today?" "Six. That's two dollars and forty cents. 'll have enough to get that new strainer today. I don't need so many groceries," I answered absently as I watched the clouds sailing happily in the deep blue sky. "They're the kind of clouds my.
Father says spell rain.
Hope we get our clothes dry first.
Guess we better hurry."
Rain it did. Not till afternoon, and we had our clothes in and dry, but how it did rain! The clouds, which had looked so gay and carefree in the morning, turned black and threatening.
Regular cloudburst off to the east of town. Our buggy didn't have any top, so we were obliged to wait It looked like a. YOU CAN LEARN until the storm had passed before we started home. The sun had gone down before we left, but the cool air was a treat and we weren't afraid of the dark.
That is, we weren't afraid of ordinary dark, but the clouds settled back low over the sky and it soon became so dark that we had to let Freckles find the road for himself.
This he seemed perfectly capable of doing, so we let him take his time. The air was thick with blackness and soft and warm.
Ernie was sleeping peacefully in his basket in the front of the buggy. We were tired and maybe a little sleepy. Suddenly Freckles stopped with his usual snort and a jerk, which brought us to attention in a second. It was so dark that we couldn't see what it was all about, but we could see that we were in the bend of the road where a small irrigation ditch usually drained some waste water into what had once been a big wash and which still came too close to the road for comfort even in the daytime. The roadway was really wide enough, though; we had crossed it many times. Now we could hear water running and surmised that the storm had probably swollen the little stream until Freckles hesitated to cross. I urged him gently forward, but he refused to cross, jerking forward a little, then backing up and turning sidewise until the buggy was at a dangerous angle. I backed him up and straightened the buggy, then tightened the lines and urged him forward with determination. We just had to get home; it looked like it might rain again any moment. 39
Freckles finally lurched forward into the blackness and we were nearly thrown from our seat. I grabbed Enrnie's basket in time to save it from the swirling water. The water was clear up to the floor of the buggy and Freckles was fighting furiously to hold a footing. The rear wheel on my side must have been over the caving side of the wash. Finally, with a great lurch, Freckles dragged the buggy to safety. I guess it couldn't have taken a minute in all, or we would have gone down that great wash with the flooding waters. But it seemed like hours as I clung to that basket and prayed desperately.
After it was all over and Freckles stood trembling on the other side, and our hearts quieted enough for us to hear, we realized just what we had been saved from. The rain, which had looked so black in the hills east of town, must have brought out a flood and it had followed its old track down to the wash. As we listened to its growing roar, we heard a great thud and splash as another piece of the bank caved into the wild stream below. Humbly I started Freckles again on the homeward road and as we faced the blackness, I realized that he had more sense than I had. He had known better than to try to cross that stream.
Erie had wakened and I took him in my arms and held him close to me for the second time that day. "Oh, thanks, dear God," I silent- 'ly prayed, "for saving my baby a second time this day. I'll try, I'll try to learn faster."
Support the Ilarch of (Dimes Basil O'Connor President, National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, Inc.* "THROUGH the years, summer in the United States always has been marked by outbreaks of infantile paralysis. And every winter we have come to expect a successful fund-raising campaign to meet the needs of those affected. The March of Dimes campaign, enthusiastically supported by magazines as well as by the press and radio in the past, has always raised enough to take care of the polio situation. In 1949, for example, although fewer than a hundred persons contributed more than a thousand dollars, the money rolled in . . . . dimes from the millions.

However, this summer saw more than outbreaks of polio. There was a widespread, nationwide epidemic, with more cases than ever before in our history. All resources of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis were pressed into service. The organization's epidemic treasury was emptied.

Now the bills for the epidemic's aftermath pile up; bills for the treatment of the crippled, those still in hospitals, those who must be rehabilitated, bills to be paid without curtailing the training of medical personnel and scientific research to find a preventative. But funds to pay all of these bills are lacking. And we have no way of knowing how many more cases there will be next year.

We face a possible crisis in polio that will menace every man, woman, and child in the United States unless, this winter, the March of Dimes takes in more money than ever before. Your readers must know the need. That is why I ask that you call the situation to your readers' attention.