[Vol37 | January 1950 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Poem | Title: 9 My Recompense Second Prize Poem Caroline Eyring Miner]
This  second  is  a  swift  white  silver  dart 
Whose  wound,  though  deep,  will  heal  and  hold  the  morrow. 
She  stood  entranced.    The  desert  dusk  held  power 
To  soothe,  sustain,  uphold  her  every  hour. 
EVELYN  H.  HUGHES 
Evelyn  H.  Hughes,  a  writer  new  to  the  readers  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  is  a  young  wife  and  mother  now  hving  in  Springdale,  Utah.  She 
writes  briefly  regarding  herself:  "My  parents  are  Leroy  and  Katie  Brown 
Hawkins.  I  was  born  in  Blanding,  Utah,  and  lived  there  until  I  graduated 
from  high  school.  I  attended  Dixie  Junior  College  and  later  graduated  from 
Brigham  Young  University,  Provo,  Utah.  My  husband  Owen  Hughes  is  a 
school  teacher  and  we  have  a  daughter  Kathryn,  one  year  old. 
"I  began  writing  while  I  was  very  young,  but  have  submitted  very  little 
for  publication.  My  first  pubHshed  poem  appeared  in  The  ImpTOvement  Era 
while  I  was  in  high  school." 
10

CAROLINE  EYRING  MINER 
Second  Prize  Poem 
1 1  ill  Lriecompense 
CawUne  Eyiing  Miner 
Morning 
This  morning  when  I  saw  the  Teton  Peaks 
Like  glistening  spears  of  ice  against  the  sky— 
A  lake-sky  at  their  feet— surrounded  by 
A  myriad  green-speared  army  in  salute, 
I  shouted,  'This  is  grandeur,  this  scene  speaks 
A  language  that  I  understand,  for  I 
Am  young  and  strong,  and  I  can  amplify 
This  wild,  clear,  vigorous  call  with  absolute 
And  perfect  faith.    My  little  hand  of  dust 
Is  kindled  to  a  flame  and  there  is  nothing 
That  I  cannot  do  with  work  and  trust- 
Reach  heaven  itself,  withstand  the  buffeting. 
No  matter  that  the  years  may  dim  my  fire; 
This  morning  I  have  glimpsed  my  souFs  desire/' 
Midday 
The  sun  is  high  and  spills  its  golden  hght 
Above  the  beaded  fields  of  ripened  grain, 
And  not  a  single  shadow  makes  a  stain 
Upon  the  ground;  the  air  is  fetid,  sweet

12  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1950 
With  clover  bloom;  the  katydids  make  bright 
Accompaniment  to  bees  in  noontime  strain 
Of  needled  music.  Grass  hay  that  has  lain 
In  meadows,  berries  ripened  for  a  treat 
For  kings,  frail  willow-lace  along  the  brook, 
All  add  their  special  note  to  midday  song. 
This  is  the  hour  when  my  soul  must  look 
Well  to  its  moorings  or  somewhere  along 
The  way  in  this  bright,  sensuous,  sweet  hour 
I  may  in  error  build  a  leaning  tower. 
Evening 
The  gold  of  noon  has  dimmed,  and  purple  mist 
Is  draped  with  star  points  as  the  restless  lake 
At  last  grows  smoother,  moving  still  to  take 
Its  exercise  in  sleep.    I,  too,  may  dream: 
I  have  known  friends  whom  I  could  love  and  trust; 
I  have  been  given  work  to  do  to  make 
The  world  more  blessed,  and  have  known  joy  and  heartache 
In  the  two;  I  have  loved  simple  things:  star's  gleam. 
Bird's  song,  hills  pricked  with  shade,  the  sea  as  blue 
As  indigo,  a  child's  sweet  trusting  ways. 
Cool  water  when  the  day  was  warm,  the  dew 
On  lily  cup,  and  gentle  word  of  praise. 
I  am  content.    These  things  God  gave  to  me; 
These  joys  I  sought;  this  is  my  destiny. 
CAROiSjE~EYRINGl3lNER 
Caroline  Eyring  Miner,  a  gifted  writer,  has  had  more  than  a  hun- 
dred of  her  compositions — poems,  stories,  and  articles,  pubhshed,  many  of 
them  appearing  in  the  Church  magazines.  Her  poems  have  also  been  pub- 
lished by  AlentouT,  a  national  poetry  magazine,  and  by  the  Porthnd  Oregonian.