[Notes to the Field: Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March]

Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Elder Kenneth H. Anderson BRITISH MISSION (SCOTTISH DISTRICT) AIRDRIE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, September 23, 1949
Elder Anderson writes: '""The bazaar was held in order to raise sufficient funds to pay a 100 per cent assessment on the new Relief Society home in Salt Lake City. Through the diligence of all our Relief Society members, the purpose was fulfilled. Much help was also given freely by the other auxiliaries and a few earnest investigators. Articles, such as aprons, tablecloths, scarves, baby clothes, hot pads, and a quilt were sold. Also, a table was set aside for home baking. Honored guests from London, for 'the evening, were President and Sister Boyer, who were very much impressed with the large gathering and the success of the sale. Sister Boyer officially opened the sale and it was only a short while until the tables were bare. Immediately after the sale a program was held, presenting a few highlights of Scottish dances. This bazaar was a great success and, in addition to everything else, was a very effective means of proselyting of the gospel." Gladys S. Boyer is president of the British Mission Relief Society. ] NOTES FROM THE FIELD. ———> 43 % x BSieans Photograph submitted by Ada Lindquist WEBER STAKE (UTAH), WASHINGTON TERRACE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AT THEIR FIRST MEETING IN THE NEW CHAPEL Left to nght: President Joan Moser; First Counselor Lula Ellis; Second Counselor Edna Buttars; Secretary-Treasurer Aurelia Bosely. Ada Lindquist is president of Weber Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Bessie Dahl NORTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH), WEST POINT WARD, FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENT HONORED AT SOCIAL, July 12, 1949
Bessie Dahl, present president of the West Point Ward Relief Society, congratulates Sister Comfort E. Flinder, eighty-eight, the oldest living former president of the ward Relief Society. She became president in 1906 and served for over twelve years. Pearl W. Burton is president of North Davis Stake Relief Society. 
44 
Photograph submitted by Ivie H. Jones SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION, FRESNO (CALIFORNIA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS ASSEMBLED AT WORK MEETING Front row, left to right: Refugio Antillon, organist; Luisa Hernandez, First Counselor; Teresa Pratt, chorister; Ascencion B. Carrillo (shown with scissors in her hand), President; Maria Castillo, Second Counselor; Josephine Ortiz, work director. Standing at the back, right: Magdelena Ruiz, Secretary. In 1942, Sister Carrillo was set apart as president of a four-member Relief Society, three of whom belonged to one family. The membership has now increased. To fifteen and it is not at all uncommon to have as many non-members of the Church as members in attendance at the meetings. Nearly all of the present officers have had considerable experience in positions of leadership and responsibility in other branches. A beautiful spirit of co-operation and sisterly affection is evident among the members of this society and they are looking forward to the time when they will have a place in which to meet in the new chapel which is being planned for this branch. Ivie H. Jones is president of the Spanish-American Mission Relief Society. SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS HONORED AT OPENING SOCIAL, September 27, 1949 At this social President Alta C. Allen gave a tribute to the Singing Mothers who had furnished the music for two sessions of the stake conference, under the able direction of chorister Eunice Ravsten and organist Sara Heggie. The theme of the program given at the social was: '"'Yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me." The role of the Singing Mothers was dramatized in three parts: 1. In the home 2. In social meetings 3. In the community There are seven wards in the stake and each ward president presented each of the Singing Mothers in her ward a corsage of home-grown flowers. Alta C. Allen is president of Smithfield Stake.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45
Photograph submitted by Madge P. Fowler PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIEFY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED FOR THEIR CLOSING SOCIAL, May 27, 1949
Front row, left to right: First Counselor Ida Cannon; President Madge P. Fowler; Second Counselor Lily Davis; Secretary-Treasurer, Ethel Gunson. Back row, left to right: Agnes Heath; Adele Bird; Mary Snyder; Nellie McLeod; Minnie McKeon; Olive Talley; Sadie Liebig; LaVer Millard. Clara Hunter was not present at the time the photograph was taken. The theme of this unique party was "This year's fashions on last year's budget." The models displayed many lovely made-over articles of clothing for men, women, and children. There was also a display of exceptionally beautiful handwork and quilts made for the welfare assignment, some of which can be seen in the background of the picture. Each member of the stake board made an attractive apron from a man's shirt. These aprons are being modeled in the picture. Madge P. Fowler is president of Pasadena Stake Relief Society. Photograph by Glenn West, submitted by Hattie Shurtz ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA), THATCHER WARD SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR THEIR CONCERT, June 23, 1949
Ward President Lela Udall is shown fifth from the left on the second row. The director is Marie Farley and the organist Bernice Stowell. Hattie Shurtz, President, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, reports that the Singing Mothers of Thatcher Ward have given continuous service for thirteen years. Their first concert, presented June 23, 1949, was very much enjoyed by a large audience. 
46  SWEDISH MISSION, GOTEBORG RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND THE LOOM WHICH THEY RECENTLY PURCHASED Left to right: Anna Sjoholm; Maria Bohlin; Hilma Malmberg. In reporting from her mission a year ago, former president of the Swedish Mission Relief Society, Ethel E. Blomquist wrote: "Everything is fine here in the Swedish Mission. 'The weather is very mild and lovely. We have had no snow to speak of yet (January 18, 1949.) At Christmas time we were picking roses outside. I am so thankful for the wonderful opportunity I have had of working with the women in the Swedish Mission. I have learned to love them very much." Annie B. Johnson is the present president of the Swedish Mission Relief Society. BEAR LAKE STAKE (IDAHO) SPONSORS HOBBY SHOW A July hobby show, which included many unique exhibits, was sponsored by Bear Lake Stake Relief Society, under direction of the work meeting leader, Sister Gilgen. In the hall was a cleverly dressed dummy representing a person without a hobby. Skills and arts represented included crochet work, hairpin lace doilies, quilts, knitted sweaters, needlepoint, embroidery work, textile painting, hand-painted pictures, free-hand sketches, wall plaques, figurines, a collection of vases and flowers, plastic and nylon lamp shades, wood carvings, baby dresses, children's clothing, scrapbooks, and some very special laces collected by Lizzie Welker on her trip to Europe. The three rooms full of beautiful work indicated that there are not many women in Bear Lake Stake without a hobby. Clarissa Ward is president of Bear Lake Stake Relief Society.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 47
Photograph submitted by Adriana M. Zappey NETHERLANDS MISSION, ROTTERDAM DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS ASSEMBLED AT CONFERENCE August 23, 1949
Sister Adriana M. Zappey, President, Netherlands Mission Relief Society, reports that in each of the seven districts in her mission great progress has been made. "Singing Mothers groups have been organized in all the districts, and at the Relief Society conferences, held semi-annually in each district, these songsters contributed much to the spirit of the meeting." Assisting Sister Zappey in the Relief Society work are the following sisters: Maatje M. D. Schouten; Elizabeth Muyer; Willemiena Wedemeyer; Maria A. Van Zeben." Photograph submitted by Lola M. Shumway PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA), MARICOPA INDIAN RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN MAKING A QUILT At right end of the quilt, seated, facing the camera: LaSalle Sundust, the first convert in this branch. In rear, seated: Brother Harry Sundust and daughter Marion, with baby, also members of the branch. Lola M. Shumway is president of Maricopa Stake Relief Society. LESSON £ E} DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 23—"The Close of Our Lord's Public Ministry" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 31, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, April 4, 1950
Objective: To convince the prayerful student that Jesus is the Lord, by a careful analysis of his masterly teaching during the period which closed his public ministry. A Conspiracy of Pharisees and Herodians T is necessary to recall conditions in Jerusalem during the period we are about to study. The Jewish authorities were all united in their efforts to take the life of Jesus. He knew that. He knew that the cross awaited him within a few days and that the words he spoke would be quoted for centuries yet to come. He was pleading for the salvation of God's children everywhere. He knew the hearts of his opponents. The Pharisees were counseling as to "how they might entangle him in his talk" (Matt. 22:15).
They joined with their own enemies—the Herodians—in an attempt to find some infringement of either the Jewish or Roman law on which they could charge Jesus with disloyalty. A delegation of men who had not appeared against him was chosen to work out the plan.
They sought to entangle him in his talk.
This hypocritical group came asking the question:... Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for any man:  for thou regardest not the person of mén.
Tell us therefore, What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not? (Matt. 22:16-17). The student will see at once how subtle and adroit were the questions.
These spies used flattering words in paying tribute to the Lord's courage. However, they had chosen, with evil craftiness, the manner of approach for there was nothing more offensive to the Jews than paying poll tax to the Romans.
They thought Jesus was in a dilemma and would offend either the Jews or Romans whichever way he answered. "But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites?"
Then calling for a Roman coin, "... He saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription?" 'They could only reply, "Caesar's." "...
Then saith he unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's" (Matt. 22:18-21).
That saying has become an aphorism almost everywhere. The Pharisees and Herodians were silenced by the LESSON DEPARTMENT wisdom of the Lord's reply to their crafty questions.
Caesar should be given the coms upon which his image was stamped but "God should be given the souls that bear his image." The king of Israel had no eatthly ambition; his mission was to save souls. Sadducees Question About the Resurrection The Sadducees then took their turn in trying to entrap the Lord.
They did not believe in the resurrection and framed their question to discredit that doctrine.
They said unto him: Master, Moses said, If a man die, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother. Now there were with us seven brethren: and the first, when he had married a wife, deceased, and, having no issue, left his wife unto his brother: Likewise the second also, and the third, unto the seventh. And last of all the woman died also.
Therefore in the resurrection whose wife shall she be of the seven? For they all had her (Matt. 22:24-28).
They had stated a case coming within the provision of the Mosaic law. The writer of these lessons believes that the incident itself sustains a great principle of the gospel, as revealed in this day. The enemies of the Lord were all trying to "entangle him in his talk." If he had not been talking to them on the principle of the eternity of the marriage covenant, why the question and why the answer? 'They evidently had understood he was talking of marriage or why did they ask "in the resurrection whose wife Shall she be?"
Then note his answer: "... Ye do err, not knowing 49 the scriptures, nor the power of God" [the Priesthood].
Then he continued: "For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven" (Matt. 22:29-30).
They had been married under the law of Moses.
That did not give the "power to bind on earth and it should be bound in heaven."
Marriage is an earthly ordinance and must be performed on earth under the authority of the Holy Priesthood to be binding in heaven. In the case considered, if the woman had been sealed the wife of one of the brothers for eternity, she would, of course, have been the wife of that brother. The Savior then touched upon the resurrection in such a way as to completely silence the Sadducees.
They pretended to be followers of the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, yet they rejected the doctrine that those worthy men would be resurrected. When _ Jesus said: "God is not the God of the dead, but of the living," it was a direct assault on their contention and was unanswerable. In fact, certain of the scribes approved the statement of the Savior, saying "... Master, thou hast well said" (Luke 20:39). The Great Commandment The Pharisees again tried to discomfit the Lord. A scribe of that sect asked: "Which is the first commandment of all?"
That was a much debated question among the Jews. The answer of Jesus was prompt and impressive: The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord: And thou shalt love the Lord thy 50
God. With all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these (Mark 12:29-31). It was a comprehensive summary of the "law and the prophets." It was beautiful and sound. (The rabbis had worked out over six hundred commandments of the ceremonial and moral law.) Jesus Turns Questioner All of the sects and individuals had utterly failed in their attempts to find any lawful charge which they could file against Jesus. He then "turned the tables" and became the interrogator. He asked the Pharisees:... What think ye of Christ? Whose son is he? They say unto him, The Son of David. He saith unto them, How then doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool? If David then call him Lord, how is he his son? (Matt. 22:42-45). The Jews believed in the coming of a Messiah who would be of the lineage of David, but an_ earthly king. The Lord said that David's song of praise (110
Psalm) was inspired by the Holy Ghost (Mark 12:36). Jesus the Christ is of the physical lineage of David. However, "He was Jehovah, Lord and God, before David, Abraham, or Adam was known on earth." Do not his teachings proclaim him a God? 
Wicked Scribes and Pharisees Denounced The Lord became more aggrtessive as he talked of the unworthy representatives of the chosen people. They had completely transgressed the laws and changed the everlasting covenants of the Lord. He denounced the teachers of the false doctrine and the so-called officers of the law in so far as their evil examples would lead the people astray. His disciples were to observe the law but not to follow the evil works of the officials. He made a clear distinction between observance of law and following evil example. Wickedness was not condoned in any one, no matter how high the position held. "Inordinate vanity and irreverent assumption of excessive piety" on the part of rabbis, scribes, and Pharisees were all condemned. He taught against titles given to men to feed their vanity. 'There is only one master, Christ, and only one Father—our Father in heaven. Those whom Jesus had called to carry on the work of the Church he had founded were not to seek for titles or the honors of men. They were to render the greatest possible service to the Lord and the people over whom they presided. Jesus said: But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant. And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased; and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted (Matt. 23:11-12).. Before closing his public ministry Jesus made a scathing denunciation of the rulers of the Jews. It is doubtful if more scorching invectives were LESSON DEPARTMENT ever uttered. We have space for only a few of thém. "Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayers: therefore ye shall receive the greater damnation." The Pharisees he condemned for making proselytes and then making them "twofold more the child of hell," than they themselves were. They were blind guides and blind leaders. Always he called them hypocrites (Matt. 23:13-36). They were sticklers for unimportant matters but ignored the weightier things such as judgment, mercy, and love. He called them serpents, and vipers and asked, "how can ye escape the damnation of hell?" It was truly a case of righteous indignation. Go - = THE WIDOW'S MITE 51
The Lord's Lamentation Over Jerusalem He must have been filled with profound sorrow when he looked over the recreant city of Jerusalem and uttered his touching lamentation. Its temple was to be destroyed. He no longer referred to it as "his house" but said "your house" which he said would be left desolate. This was all fulfilled about thirty years later during the great war with the Romans. A Widow's Gift Jesus left the open courts of the temple and went toward the treasury, where great wealth had been accumulated. He saw a poor widow who dropped into one of the treasury chests what to us would be less - en Nile mips" From a painting by Bida 52 than half a cent. It was her all. Jesus said unto his disciples: Verily I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast more in, than all they which have cast into the treasury: For all they did cast in of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living (Mark 12:43-44). Elder Talmage states: In the accounts kept by the recording angels, figured out according to the arithmetic of heaven, entries are made in terms of quality rather than quantity, and values are determined on the basis of capability and intent. The widow gave all; great will be her reward. Christ's Final Withdrawal From the Temple It is noted with sadness that while the Savior was giving his many discourses in the temple during the first half of his final week on earth, many people, including some of the rulers, were converted. They believed him to be the Son of God, but they could not bring themselves to join his Church openly. "For they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God" (John 12:43). Jesus again solemnly proclaimed that he  spoke not for himself but always for his Father. * Destruction of the Temple Predicted As Jesus was departing from the temple, he made an unqualified prophecy of the utter destruction of the temple. The Lord's public ministry was probably brought to a close with his final departure from the temple on the Tuesday of that last week. Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Describe the events leading to the utterance by the Lord of the aphorism: - "Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's." 2. Relate the incident of the Sadducees trying to confuse the Lord on the doctrine of the resurrection. 3. What were some of the woes pronounced upon the Pharisees, Sadducees and _ scribes?. What lesson can we learn from the story of the widow's gift? References in the Four Gospels Matt. 5:33-37; 22:15-46; 23; 24:1, 2. Mark 3:6; 8:15; 12:13-44; 13:1, 2. Luke 11:44; 20:19-28, 41-47; 21:5-6; 23:2
John 7:49; 12:42-50. Winter Grace Sayre The streams no longer run on endless errands, The sun is miserly with summer's gold, Snow has $gealed the lips of birch and willow; The year is old. | Ussiting Seacher ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 7—"Nevertheless Not My Will, But Thine, Be Done" (Luke 22:42) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, April 4, 1950
Objective: To help us accept life as it comes, and not to lose faith during adversity. HERE are two phases involved in doing the will of God. The larger and more comprehensive was referred to in the perfect prayer when our Savior said: "Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven" (Matt. 6:10). Here a united effort of all mankind will bring about the desired result. It will come by keeping the commandments of God. The second phase is a purely personal one in which each individual accepts the will of God with respect to the events of his own life. Accepting God's will is not always easy. Our vision is limited. Often we distinguish but part of the scene that is our earth life. We see things in the light of time, but God is dealing with us for both time and eternity. Often our selfish desires obscure the larger vision. It is hard for us to admit that trials may become benefits. When we are able to say with sincerity "Not my will, but thine, be done" (Luke 22:42), we have gone far on the road to perfection. We are placing our lives in the keeping of our Heavenly Father and acknowledging our inability always to know what is for our own best good. There may be purpose behind the seeming obstacles that — we cannot comprehend. Have you not looked back upon some trying experience through which you have been called to pass, and which you would have shunned had it been possible, and admitted that it has brought you soul-growth? If we can accept with good humor the small irritations of our daily lives, we shall develop patience. Physical hardship will give us endurance. Out of suffering comes understanding of the trials of others and love for them. If we are misunderstood and try not to feel hurt, we develop tolerance for others. And so it goes on and on, as we meet the problems of life from day to day. Accepting God's will in all things will bring abiding satisfaction and peace to the soul. _<- Well-Seasoned Thelma Ireland Most folks prefer a mild, warm clime For many varied reasons, But I will trade that comfort for The drama of the seasons.  54 RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1950
Work ITleeting—Sewi ng Children's Clothing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Coats and Snowsuits Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, April 11, 1950 INCE coats and snowsuits are the most expensive items in a child's wardrobe, making them at home can effect the greatest saving.
Making a coat takes extra care and time, but the effort spent on such a project is worth while. In most cases, the first consideration in making these garments ls warmth, but this does not necessarily call for heavy fabrics.
Contrary to the common idea, some of the warmest outfits are surprisingly light in weight and some of the heaviest are not warm at all. Too much weight is depressing to a child and drags on his shoulders so that it may affect his posture.
Fabrics should not irritate the skin at necks and wrists.
Coats and winter playsuits, more than any other garments, must be durable.
They are naturally subjected to dirt and grime which would ruin any but strong, closely woven fabrics.
Insist on having material so thoroughly shrunk that it is guaranteed to keep its original shape and size.
Only fabrics of colors that are fast to light are practical, since these articles are always worn out of doors. = Colors should be gay, becoming, and pleasing to the youngsters who will wear them.
Brighter or neutral  colors do not soil so readily as do dark colors.
Bright shades have the added advantage of being more readily seen and, hence, a safeguard against accidents.
Special finishes that are added to make materials water-repellent and windproof are desirable in climates where there is much snow.
Sometimes fabrics are available that have been treated for water-repellency. If not, cleaners can treat the finished garment to add this feature. In making children's coats, tailor them as carefully as you would a garment for a grown person. By doing this they will retain their shape and look better longer. Cut interfacings always to strengthen the front edges and to give them more body.
Reinforce front edges and armhole seams with tape so they will be more sturdy and hold their shape better.
Always use backing or reinforcement for pockets and buttonholes to insure against having them tear out. For winter, a wool interlining is advisable.
Light weight wool material made expressly for this purpose is best. An easy way to cut and sew interlinings is to baste the cutout lining, right side up, onto the interlining, cut out, and then sew them together as one. One idea for a child's coat is to LESSON DEPARTMENT have a warm lining that zips or snaps into the coat. For milder days the coat is worn without the lining.
When weather becomes colder, the lining can easily be put into the coat for added warmth.
These linpy) ings are made by the same pattern as the coat itself and finished off on a line where the coat facing ends.
This plan does away with the necessity of having an extra coat for spring and fall.
Elvyoraie vos The