[Support the March of Dimes]

Support the Ilarch of (Dimes Basil O'Connor President, National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, Inc.* "THROUGH the years, summer in the United States always has been marked by outbreaks of infantile paralysis. And every winter we have come to expect a successful fund-raising campaign to meet the needs of those affected. The March of Dimes campaign, enthusiastically supported by magazines as well as by the press and radio in the past, has always raised enough to take care of the polio situation. In 1949, for example, although fewer than a hundred persons contributed more than a thousand dollars, the money rolled in dimes from the millions. However, this summer saw more than outbreaks of polio.
There was a widespread, nationwide epidemic, with more cases than ever before in our history. All resources of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis were pressed into service. The organization's epidemic treasury was emptied. Now the bills for the epidemic's aftermath pile up; bills for the treatment of the crippled, those still in hospitals, those who must be rehabilitated, bills to be paid without curtailing the training of medical personnel and scientific research to find a preventative. But funds to pay all of these bills are lacking. And we have no way of knowing how many more cases there will be next year. We face a possible crisis in polio that will menace every man, woman, and child in the United States unless, this winter, the March of Dimes takes in more money than ever before.
Your readers must know the need.
That is why I ask that you call the situation to your readers' attention. *Excerpts from a letter to The Relief Society Magazine. Night Gene Romolo Night steps from wraith-like realms of dusk, On silent, slippered feet; Dew gems glisten in her hair, Her breath is cool and sweet; And in her soft, dark mantle's folds, Hides mystery, strange and deep, That brings her greatest gift to man, Beneficence of sleep.  FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-T reasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '