[Vol37 | January 1950 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: 16 A Banner From Mother Clara Horne Park]
Mother does, too; she is such an early riser," Mary assented. "We don't get done any too early, though, and I have to go around the ward for the Relief Society this afternoon." "Mother has to go, too. She won't be there to worry about me overdoing if I get part of my ironing done while I am down there where I can use the electric iron. She always says I try to kill myself in one day, but I just love to iron with the electric iron. I guess I'm spoiled. She doesn't like me to take the baby's clothes in, a piece here and there as they dry and spoil the looks of her beautiful lines, either," I sighed. "Well, there is one thing about driving Freckles," Mary said, with her usual optimism, "we can take the short cut and cross the river. It is just about as quick that way with the horse as it is the other way in the car." "Yes, and that way we come into the east part of town and don't have to be seen on Main Street with this outfit,' I teased. Mey didn't like to be seen driving the horse. She said we and the two old ladies from Scrabble Flats were the only ones who had to go to town in a buggy Well, I knew a lot of farm women who didn't get to town unless they Page 38 waited for their men folks to take them. At least Freckles got us there. "Yes, there or someplace," Mary chuckled, reminding me of the time when he took the bit between his teeth and took us right up over the railroad tracks. We had a good laugh remembering that, although it wasn't funny at the time. "There isn't much water left in the river this time of the year is there?" I asked dreamily as my eyes wandered appreciatively over the view of the valley before us. Freckles took advantage of me, as usual, and took a short cut up over the bank, very nearly upsetting the whole outfit. "You'll have to quit daydreaming," Mary said, a trifle reprovingly, as she pushed the pans of butter back under the seat. "How many pounds did you get today?" "Six. That's two dollars and forty cents. 'll have enough to get that new strainer today. I don't need so many groceries," I answered absently as I watched the clouds sailing happily in the deep blue sky. "They're the kind of clouds my. Father says spell rain. Hope we get our clothes dry first. Guess we better hurry." Rain it did. Not till afternoon, and we had our clothes in and dry, but how it did rain! The clouds, which had looked so gay and carefree in the morning, turned black and threatening. Regular cloudburst off to the east of town. Our buggy didn't have any top, so we were obliged to wait It looked like a. YOU CAN LEARN until the storm had passed before we started home. The sun had gone down before we left, but the cool air was a treat and we weren't afraid of the dark. That is, we weren't afraid of ordinary dark, but the clouds settled back low over the sky and it soon became so dark that we had to let Freckles find the road for himself. This he seemed perfectly capable of doing, so we let him take his time. The air was thick with blackness and soft and warm. Ernie was sleeping peacefully in his basket in the front of the buggy. We were tired and maybe a little sleepy. Suddenly Freckles stopped with his usual snort and a jerk, which brought us to attention in a second. It was so dark that we couldn't see what it was all about, but we could see that we were in the bend of the road where a small irrigation ditch usually drained some waste water into what had once been a big wash and which still came too close to the road for comfort even in the daytime. The roadway was really wide enough, though; we had crossed it many times. Now we could hear water running and surmised that the storm had probably swollen the little stream until Freckles hesitated to cross. I urged him gently forward, but he refused to cross, jerking forward a little, then backing up and turning sidewise until the buggy was at a dangerous angle. I backed him up and straightened the buggy, then tightened the lines and urged him forward with determination. We just had to get home; it looked like it might rain again any moment. 39 Freckles finally lurched forward into the blackness and we were nearly thrown from our seat. I grabbed Enrnie's basket in time to save it from the swirling water. The water was clear up to the floor of the buggy and Freckles was fighting furiously to hold a footing. The rear wheel on my side must have been over the caving side of the wash. Finally, with a great lurch, Freckles dragged the buggy to safety. I guess it couldn't have taken a minute in all, or we would have gone down that great wash with the flooding waters. But it seemed like hours as I clung to that basket and prayed desperately. After it was all over and Freckles stood trembling on the other side, and our hearts quieted enough for us to hear, we realized just what we had been saved from. The rain, which had looked so black in the hills east of town, must have brought out a flood and it had followed its old track down to the wash. As we listened to its growing roar, we heard a great thud and splash as another piece of the bank caved into the wild stream below. Humbly I started Freckles again on the homeward road and as we faced the blackness, I realized that he had more sense than I had. He had known better than to try to cross that stream. Erie had wakened and I took him in my arms and held him close to me for the second time that day. "Oh, thanks, dear God," I silent- 'ly prayed, "for saving my baby a second time this day. I'll try, I'll try to learn faster." Support the Ilarch of (Dimes Basil O'Connor President, National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, Inc.* "THROUGH the years, summer in the United States always has been marked by outbreaks of infantile paralysis. And every winter we have come to expect a successful fund-raising campaign to meet the needs of those affected. The March of Dimes campaign, enthusiastically supported by magazines as well as by the press and radio in the past, has always raised enough to take care of the polio situation. In 1949, for example, although fewer than a hundred persons contributed more than a thousand dollars, the money rolled in dimes from the millions. However, this summer saw more than outbreaks of polio. There was a widespread, nationwide epidemic, with more cases than ever before in our history. All resources of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis were pressed into service. The organization's epidemic treasury was emptied. Now the bills for the epidemic's aftermath pile up; bills for the treatment of the crippled, those still in hospitals, those who must be rehabilitated, bills to be paid without curtailing the training of medical personnel and scientific research to find a preventative. But funds to pay all of these bills are lacking. And we have no way of knowing how many more cases there will be next year. We face a possible crisis in polio that will menace every man, woman, and child in the United States unless, this winter, the March of Dimes takes in more money than ever before. Your readers must know the need. That is why I ask that you call the situation to your readers' attention. *Excerpts from a letter to The Relief Society Magazine. Night Gene Romolo Night steps from wraith-like realms of dusk, On silent, slippered feet; Dew gems glisten in her hair, Her breath is cool and sweet; And in her soft, dark mantle's folds, Hides mystery, strange and deep, That brings her greatest gift to man, Beneficence of sleep. Page 40 FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-T reasurer All material submitted for publication in this