[Relief Society Women as Mothers in Zion President George Albert Smith]

Relief Society Women as Mothers in Zion President George Albert Smith [Address delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1949.] would not miss this opportunity | to say # few words for anything. I have been in meetings nearly all day. I just got out of one in time to come over and supposed I would be here for the latter part of the program, but I certainly did not expect to come and take up some of the time. As I observed the Singing Mothers behind me, my thoughts were taken back to the Indians of the South Seas. I remember upon one occasion when they had a house full of people—there must have been about twelve hundred present— every one of them, natives, who were all sitting on the floor.
They did not have a chair to sit on.
Each district had its own song that they sang for us in their turn. And I could not help but think when I was down there, that those people were patterning after the Singing Mothers at home.
They had heard about them; they had seen the pictures and there they, too, were Singing Mothers. When I arrived in that mission there were two hundred women who were dressed in light-colored dresses that had been made by them from the bark of the Hippo tree.
Their dresses covered the body from the neck down to the ankles, as well as the arms.
These women were Relief Society members, and they were the Singing Mothers of that particular conference.,  I think it is wonderful to -be permitted to be here. I am so grateful when I hear such fine suggestions made as you have just listened to, about the opportunity of womankind.
Think how many women there are in the world who have had an opportunity to have a family of children but did not assume the responsibility because they preferred to do something else. It reminds me of the days of Theodore Roosevelt. Somebody, while talking to him in the White House one day, said: "President Roosevelt, I do not know what in the world is the matter with these women. We have a lot of houses here, I do not know just how many; but I have not seen a single child in them, not one.
They have poll parrots, pug dogs, canary birds, and cats, and most everything else," he continued, "but there are no children.
What do you think about i. President Roosevelt _ replied, "Well, I think that that is all they are entitled to. If they are that kind of women, that is all they are worthy of." The President himself had a family of children his wife had helped him to raise, or that he had helped her to raise. I am contrasting the women referred to by Theodore Roosevelt with this group present today. You represent all parts of the country. RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AS MOTHERS IN ZION 7 te I wish we could have a picture of this audience today, and that it might be printed in the place of some of those ridiculous things that are in the current magazines, and just show what the Latter-day Saint women believe in, what they live for, what their privileges are. Of course, there are no other women in the world who have a place like this to meet in, and I want to say there are very few places in the world where you would find the same sweet influence that you find here in this great 'Tabernacle.
Referring again to the Indians of the South Seas, I am thinking what an advantage it is to them if we give them the benefit of that which we have learned. 'They have lost many opportunities in the past.
Those of the Polynesian group are descendants of a prophet of God who came from Jerusalem about six hundred years before the birth of Christ, but they drifted and drifted.
Very few of them live in what you would: call a good house, but they have continued to grow and develop and live.
There are thousands of them, and every one of them is a child of our Heavenly Father. A few months ago the Bushnell hospital at Brigham City was turned over to the United States Department of Indian Affairs, and they advise that by the first of the year they will have two hundred Indian.
Children there attending school. The number will increase as the months go by. HAT an opportunity for the | | people of Brigham City and that vicinity! I wonder if they fully realize it. It is an opportunity, and the government is permitting those children to be brought there, and our mothers and fathers in that part of the world can earn a blessing from our Heavenly Father if they will teach those children, whatever their ages may be, and help to educate them and prepare them that they, too, may be ready for the celestial kingdom when that time comes. } You people here represent large families of children, no doubt. The man talking to you is one of a family of eleven children, and I am sure every one of those children feels as I do, to ask the blessings of our Heavenly Father upon the woman who brought us into the world and gave us our opportunity. The other things that she did in the world were numerous, but they were as nothing compared to giving us the privilege of birth, and I hope that we will all live so that we will be a blessing to her forever. You good mothers have a lot to do. You have your problems, I am sure, and the least of your problems is not always your husbands, but if you will keep the commandments of the Lord, if you will do as has been suggested, make your homes real homes; rear your children and your grandchildren as they come along so that they may go forward and keep his commandments, there is not a blessing in the world that is worthwhile that you may not have, because there is not anything compared to a family of children that will be more of a blessing. — When I was a child my folks were poor.