[Vol37 | January 1950 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: 15 Grass in the Market Place First Prize Story Dorothy Clapp Robinson]
Grass  in  the  Market  Place 
Doiothy  Clapp  Rohinson 
DOROTHY  CLAPP  ROBINSON 
STEPPING  outside,  Kent  Turner 
closed  the  screen  door  quietly 
behind  him.  He  stretched  luxu- 
riously and  filled  his  Inngs  with  air 
that  was  sharply  cool  and  pungent 
with  the  flavor  of  morning.  Three 
hours'  sleep  had  eased  the  strain 
of  tired  muscles,  but  that  old  nag- 
ging restlessness  was  still  with  him. 
Would  he  ever  learn?  Abruptly  he 
reached  for  his  irrigating  shovel 
and  threw  it  over  his  shoulder.  As 
he  started  across  the  yard.  Thane, 
the  collie,  rubbed  against  his  legs. 
Back  of  Mt.  Putnam,  dawn  was 
a  faint  blush  while,  below,  the  river 
bottoms  stretched  into  a  long  dark- 
Page  16 
ness.  From  the  saddle  of  the  gran- 
ary a  robin  was  flinging  a  liquid 
challenge  to  a  still  sleeping  world. 
The  notes  brought  a  bitter-sweet 
nostalgia.  Impatiently  he  length- 
ened his  stride,  but  stopped  abruptly 
as  the  throb  of  a  motor  broke  the 
morning  stillness. 
Kent  traced  the  sound  as  it 
wound  along  the  rim  of  the  bench- 
land.  That  was  a  private  road 
through  his  field.  He  waited,  pre- 
monition tapping  hard  at  his  tem- 
ples. Against  the  brightening  sky  he 
could  see  the  car  as  it  entered  the 
yard.  A  door  opened  and  a  girl 
stepped  out.  Jean!  The  car  rolled 
back  to  the  gate.  Kent's  long 
fingers  bit  hard  against  the  handle 
of  the  shovel.  Thane  whined  and 
the  girl  came  to  stand  before  him. 
"Good  morning."  There  was  no 
answer;  she  tried  again.  ''Kent, 
I-I-" 
Kent  waited,  his  body  tall  and 
hard  with  tension. 
"Kent— Fve— Fve— oh,  don't  be 
so  stiff." 
"Leaving  was  your  idea,  not 
mine." 
Her  head  raised  in  angry  protest. 
There  was  a  moment  of  throbbing 
silence,  then  her  shoulders  drooped. 
"I  want  to  stay— no,  wait  a  mo- 
ment—for a  while,  Kent.  I  heard 
you  needed  help."

GRASS  IN  THE  MARKET  PLACE  17 
His  laugh  was  mirthless.    ''1  need  his  attention.    By  the  rapidly  spread- 
a    man.      I    have   a   housekeeper."  ing  light  he  noted  the  rows   that 
"I    know;    but    there   are    many  were  well  soaked,  those  that  were 
things  I  could  do."  not.     He  dammed  certain  furrows 
"Just  what,  besides  daubing  with  and   opened  others.     He   felt  the 
paint  and  griping  about  hard  work?"  sun    on    his    back    and    his    shirt 
She  turned  and  went  to  stand  by  clung  to  him  with  perspiration.    All 
her  bags,  but,  as  he  watched,  the  the  time  his  emotions  were  a  bat- 
stiffness  went  out  of  her.     Slowly  tering  ram  pounding  between  the 
she  came  back.     She  laid  a  hand  past  and  the  present, 
on  his  arm.  Why  had  she  come  back?  Not  be- 
"Won't  you  give  me  a  chance?"  cause  she  was  ready  to  give  up  paint- 
Because  her  touch   was   dry  ice  ing,  he  had  made  certain  of  that 
in  his  veins  he  answered  harshly,  with  one  glance  at  her  bags.     Be- 
''Mrs.  Bates  isn't  up  yet.    You  may  cause  of  love?    She  had  loved  him 
have  the  back  bedroom.    Breakfast  in  the  beginning,   of  that  he  was 
at  six-thirty  as  usual."  sure.    Then  why  hadn't  they  been 
He  whirled,  and  beyond  the  cor-  able  to  make  their  marriage  work? 
ral  he  straddled  the  fence  and  hur-  His  one  brief  year  with  calm  and 
ried  to  where  water,   running  be-  gentle   Barbara,   who   had   died   at 
tween  rows  of  young  beets,  waited  Tim's  birth,  had  not  prepared  him 
DOROTHY  CLAPP  ROBINSON 
Dorothy  Clapp  Robinson,  Boise,  Idaho,  is  well-known  for  her  many 
excellent  contributions  to  the  Church  publications.  Her  short  stories  have  ap- 
peared in  many  other  publications  as  well  and  she  is  an  active  member  and 
past  state  and  chapter  president  of  the  Idaho  Writers'  League. 
Relief  Society  Magazine  readers  will  particularly  remember  Mrs.  Robin- 
son's outstanding  serials:  "Dear  to  the  Heart  of  the  Shepherd  (1939); 
"Cathedral  of  Peace"  (1939-1940);  and  "Forward  Without  Fear"  (1944- 
1945).  Her  short  story  "Though  a  Host  Encamp  Against  Thee"  was  awarded 
third  prize  in  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story  Contest  for  1944.  Her  recent