[Vol37 | January 1950 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Lesson | Title: 53 Work Meeting Songs and Snowsuits Jean Ridges Jennings]
Meeting ouncheon Christine Eaton SANDWICH SPREAD (Makes about 50 sandwiches) 2 cans corned beef or any pressed _ 3 tbsp.
Prepared horse radish loaves of meat 7 2 tbsp.
Prepared mustard ' tsp. Pepper: | | salad dressing Grind corned beef, add pepper, horse radish, and mustard and enough salad dressing to make a good paste. I find that in making a spread out of meat it goes much farther than just to slice the meat. APPLE, CELERY, AND RAISIN SALAD (Serves 50) qts. Cut apples 4 tsp. Salt 1% qts. Cut celery | 1 tsp. Paprika 3 'cups raisins 1% cups salad oil Y%, cup lemon juice 2 tbsp. Sugar Stew raisins slowly in as little water as possible until plump and tender, but not mushy, then drain and save liquid.
Beat together oil, seasoning, lemon, and sugar and six or eight tablespoons of raisin water.
Peel apples, quarter, and slice crosswise. The slices should be thick enough not to break. Cut celery in quarter-inch slices.
Marinate apples and celery in oil mixture and let stand thirty minutes, drain, add raisins.
Serve on shredded lettuce with mayonnaise dressing to which whipped cream has been added.
Dates may be used instead of raisins.
They need not be cooked. GUMDROP BARS (Makes about 40 cookies) 2 cups sifted flour 2 cups brown sugar 1 tsp. Cinnamon., " cup evaporated milk Y% tsp. Salt | 1 cup soft gumdrops (omit licorice) 3 eggs 7 | "' cup chopped nut meats Sift flour, salt, and cinnamon together.
Beat eggs until light and beat in sugar and milk gradually, then add the flour mixture in thirds, beating until smooth after each addition; add gumdrops and nuts, spread in a greased pan, and bake in oven at 325° F. For 35 minutes. Cut into bars 1 x 3 inch.
Spread tops with frosting and decorate with pieces of gumdrops. FROSTING Confectioners Icing 2 cups confectioners sugar 3 to 4 tbsp. Cream 1 tbsp.
Melted butter —, 1 tsp. Vanilla Blend the ingredients thoroughly, using enough cream to make the icing easy to spread.
Spread over the cookies while they are still slightly warm. Page 36
Dark in the Chrysalis (Continued from page 26) day, when her true feelings had tumbled out in words. Maybe it would be better just to ignore this moming's episode. Half-heartedly, Edith opened the paper to the want ads. Everything in her rebelled against the thought of trusting herself into the workaday world, where the tides of life run ruthlessly swift. Sliding her fingers down the column was more a gesture of self-pity than a sincere seeking. Housekeepers, waitresses, and saleswomen seemed to be the only openings, none of them suited to her., As she was laying the paper aside, her eyes caught one item: '""Wanted: Companion for aged lady. Very little to do. Comfortable room with salary.", Well, a job like that would certainly solve the difficulty, providing one wanted it. Edith didn't. Since the "Women Want Work" column was twice as long as "Help Wanted, Female," this plum would long since have been plucked, anyway.