[Vol37 | January 1950 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Request Norma Wrathall 7 From New Year, Twelve O'clock Katherine Fernelius Larsen 7 A New Wish Margaret B. Shomaker 22 Music Gene Romolo 40 To Mother Grace Sayre 52 Plea Thelma Ireland 53 Heritage Grace M. Candland 71 The Miracle LaVerne J. Stallings 71 Splendor Edith Russell Oliphant]
part  of  his  seventy-five  years  of  hfe  ing  Agent  for  Utah,  by  President 
in  close  association  with  the  Church.  William  McKinley.  This  honor  was 
His  father,  John  Henry  Smith,    a  unusual  because  he  was  the  first  Lat- 
member    of    the    Council    of    the  ter-day  Saint  to  hold  a  Federal  ap- 
Twelve,  also  served  as  second  coun-  pointment  in  the  State  of  Utah.  He 
selor  to  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  was  reappointed  by  President  Theo- 
in  the  First  Presidency.  His  grand-  dore  Roosevelt  to  this  office  which 
father,  George  A.  Smith,  served  as  he  continued  to  hold  until  some- 
a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  time  after  he  was  called  to  be  a 
Twelve,  Church  Historian,  Trustee-  member    of    the    Council    of    the 
in-Trust  for  the  Church,  and  First  Twelve  Apostles,  in  October  1903, 
Counselor    to    President    Brigham  and  his  successor  was  appointed  and 
Young.  qualified. 
President  George  Albert  Smith  President  Smith's  Church  activi- 
secured  his  early  education  in  the  ties  include  a  long  record  of  par- 
Salt  Lake  City  Public  schools  and  ticipation  in  the  Priesthood  quor- 
the  Brigham  Young  Academy  at  ums  and  auxiliaries.  He  was  a  Sun- 
Pro  vo.  When  he  was  thirteen  years  day  School  teacher,  librarian,  coun- 
of  age  his  father  was  called  to  pre-  selor,  and  ward  superintendent.  In 
side  over  the  European  Mission  and  the  M.I.A.  program  he  directed  the 
the  youthful  George  Albert  re-  activities  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake 
turned  to  Salt  Lake  and  secured  em-  when  it  included  all  of  Salt  Lake 
ployment.  During  succeeding  years  County.  Between  1892  and  1894 
he  worked  as  a  farm  implement  he  served  as  a  missionary  in  the 
salesman,  railroad  surveyor,  and  Southern  States  Mission  and  as  mis- 
traveling  salesman  for  Z.  C.  M.  L  sion  secretary.  His  wife  served  with 
interspersed  with  a  period  of  study  him  as  assistant  in  the  mission  of- 
at  the  University  of  Utah.  fice.     He  was  made  a  member  of 
President    Smith    married    Lucy  the  general  board  of  the  Y.M.M.I.A. 
Emily  Woodruff,  daughter  of  Wil-  *^  year  following  his  call  to  the 
ford  Woodruff,  Jr.,  and  Emily  Jane  apostleship     He  served  as  general 
Smith,  and  a  granddaughter  of  Pres-  supenntendent  of  that  organization 
ident   Wilford   Woodruff,   in   the  ^'"""..'^W  ""^l  ^935-    Under  his 
Manti  Temple,  on  May  25,  1892,  to  f".^^*'""  *^  ^I-^-  '"ereased  great- 
which   union   three  children  were  ly  m  scope  and  effectiveness, 
born  and  all  of  whom  are  still  liv-  ^s  a  member  of  the  Council  of 
ing,  Emily,  Edith,  and  George  Al-  *e  Twelve  he  traveled  extensively 
ber)-  Tj  in  the  wards,  stakes,  and  missions 
_.,_.,  of  the  Church,  presiding  at  many 
President  Smith,  as  a  young  man  ^^^^^  ^^-^-^^^  ^^^  reorganizations. 
took  an  active  part  m  the  political  Through   overwork  his   health   be- 
welfare  of  the  young  State  of  Utah  came  impaired;  but  his  recovery  was 
and,  in  1898,  just  two  years  after  it  complete  so  that,  in  1919,  he  was 
was  admitted  to  the  Union,  was  ap-  called  to  preside  over  the  European 
pointed  to  the  office  of  Receiver  of  Mission.     The     following    tribute

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  67 
was   printed   in   the   Improvement        President  Smith  has  always  been 
Era  at  that  time:  very  interested  in  programs  for  the 
benefit  of  the  youth.  His  sermons 
Some  years  ago  Apostle  Smith's  health  frequently   carry   a   plea   for   better 
gave  way,  but  before  his  loss  of  health  he  understanding  of  youth's  problems, 
averaged   thirty   thousand   miles   of   trave  ^  j  j^      ^^.^  doctrine, 
yearly,   at   the   rate   of   one   and   one-halt  •  •        .  v  -l 
meetings   per   day.   He  visited   the   saints  but  gOes  mto  action  to  accomplish 
throughout  the  country,  magnified  his  po-  it.    For  more  than  twenty  years  he 
sition   as   an   Apostle  of   the  Lord,   and  served  On  the  Salt  Lake  Council  of 
gave  counsel  by  precept  and  example  to  ^^iq  Boy  Scouts  of  America  and  was 
all    with    whom    he    came    in     contact  j   j  m      ci        -n  i.i,     i,-  i, 
(22-7Q1  ff )  awarded  the  Silver  Beaver,  the  high- 
est award  a  council  can  confer  on  its 
In  addition  to  the  important  serv-  members.  He  has  been  a  member 
ices  he  performed  for  the  Church,  of  the  National  Executive  Board  of 
President  Smith's  talents  were  rec-  Boy  Scouts  of  America  since  1925. 
ognized  in  other  fields  of  endeavor.  In  1934,  the  National  Council 
He  interested  himself  in  the  prob-  awarded  him  the  Silver  Buffalo,  the 
lems  of  the  arid  West,  particularly  greatest  recognition  within  its  pow- 
those  of  irrigation  and  dry  farming,  er  to  bestow  on  anyone.  He  active- 
He  was  elected  president  of  the  In-  ly  participated  in  the  promotion  of 
ternational  Irrigation  Congress  in  scouting  as  a  youth  program  wbile 
1917  and  later  to  president  of  the  he  directed  the  affairs  of  the 
International  Dry  Farm  Congress.  Y.M.M.I.A.;  and  Utah  earned  the 
These  two  great  organizations  were  distinction  of  having  the  highest 
later  merged  and  he  was  elected  percentage  of  its  boys  enrolled  in 
president  of  the  combination  known  scouting,  over  that  of  any  other 
as  the  International  Farm  Congress,  state,  which  record  still  holds. 
Many  friends  were  made  in  these  President  George  Albert  Smith 
capacities  through  his  genial  man-  has  devoted  himself  to  the  preserva- 
ner,  and  much  enmity  that  still  tion  of  the  memory  of  the  pioneers 
existed  against  Latter-day  Saints  of  the  great  West.  He  took  a  lead- 
throughout  the  world  was  overcome,  ing  part  in  the  organizing  of  the 
President  Smith  is  a  descendant  Utah  Pioneer  Trails  and  Landmarks 
of  Mayflower  and  Revolutionary  an-  Association  in  1930  and  was  elected 
cestry  and  an  ardent  believer  in  the  its  president  and  has  so  continued 
principles  of  freedom  for  which  the  since.  He  enlisted  the  aid  of  local 
American  Revolution  was  fought.  Church  and  school  groups  to  pre- 
He  joined  the  National  Society  of  serve  pioneer  history.  He  studied 
the  Sons  of  the  American  Revolu-  the  history  of  the  various  pioneer 
tion  in  order  to  help  perpetuate  the  enterprises  that  achieved  the  settle- 
memory  of  these  men  and  the  pur-  ment  of  the  great  West  and  fa- 
poses  for  which  they  struggled,  and  miliarized  himself  with  the  over- 
twice  served  the  Utah  State  Society  land  trails  made  by  these  people, 
as  its  president,  and  seven  terms  as  particularly  the  Latter-day  Saint  pio- 
Vice-President  General  of  the  Na-  neers.  This  association  has  placed 
tional  Society.  more  than  one  hundred  permanent

6B 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE^JANUARY  1950 
BEST  lOVED 
B-PARI  CHORUSES 
Sin^in^  Mothers 
1451  Bless  This  House— Brahe   15 
56  The  Bridge  Builder— Dougall    .18 
R2782  God     Painted     A     Picture— 
DeRose        .20 
531  Hold  Thou  My  Hand— Briggs     .15 
7876  How     Beautiful     Upon     the 
Mountains — ^Harker       .16 
1758  How  Lovely  Are  Thy  Dwell- 
ings— Liddle    15 
7002  Just  for  Today— Seaver    15 
1776  The  King  of  Glory— Parks  .-    .20 
4071  The  Lord  Bless  You— Lutkin..     .15 
52  The  Lord's  Prayer— Gates  ...     .18 
62  My  Redeemer  Lives — Gates..     .18 
100  O  Savior  of  the  World — Goss    .15 
4070  That   Sweet   Story   of   Old- 
West    10 
When    Children    Pray — Fen- 
ner         .18 
Write  for  information  on  music  for  all  types 
of  L.D.S.  choral  groups.  Music  sent  on  ap- 
proval. Mail  orders  filled  promptly.  We  pay 
postage. 
We  have  a  complete  stock  of  popular, 
sacred,  and  classical  music  for  home,  church, 
and  school;  Steinway  and  Lester  pianos;  band 
and  orchestra  instruments  and  accessories; 
and   records. 
D     
FIRST  Of  All- Kill abhitj 
aiines  ^ 
45-47   SOUTH       |  ^jijg  *  f 
SALT   LAKE  Cirr  1,  UTAH 
markers  and  monuments  at  historic 
sites  under  his  presidency.  He  has 
also  served  as  a  member  of  the  ex- 
ecutive board  of  the  American  Pio- 
neer Trails  Association.  More  re- 
cently he  served  as  vice-chairman 
of  the  Utah  Centennial  Committee 
under  President  Grant  and,  later,  as 
chairman  of  this  body  in  the  erec- 
tion of  the  great  pioneer,  "This  Is 
the  Place  Monument." 
He  has  been  of  invaluable  aid  to 
the  sightless.  Through  the  Church- 
sponsored  Society  for  the  Aid  of  the 
Sightless,  of  which  he  is  president, 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  religious 
information  in  Braille  are  placed  at 
the  disposal  of  the  blind. 
In  the  interest  of  establishing  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  earth.  President 
Smith  has  preached  the  gospel  in  all 
of  the  states  of  the  United  States 
and  all  of  the  provinces  of  Canada, 
and  in  Alaska  and  Mexico,  the  Ha- 
waiian Islands,  New  Zealand,  Au- 
stralia, Tasmania,  Tonga,  Samoa, 
Cuba,  the  British  Isles,  including 
England,  Scotland,  Ireland,  and 
Wales,  the  Scandinavian  countries 
of  Norway,  Sweden,  and  Denmark, 
and  Holland,  Belgium,  Germany, 
Switzerland,  and  France.  In  all,  he 
has  traveled  in  his  ministry  approx- 
imately one  million  miles  in  the 
world. 
In  May  1945,  George  Albert 
Smith  was  sustained  as  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  John  D.  Giles,  re- 
cently of  the  general  superintend- 
ency  of  the  Y.M.M.I.A.,  said  of 
him : 
He  has  preached  the  gospel  of  honest 
work,  of  thrift,  of  good  homes,  of  educa- 
tion, and  of  progress.  Through  all  he  has 
been   practical   and   consistent.     He  has

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
69 
preached  only  what  he  has  practiced.  Ke 
has  never  advocated  that  others  should 
do  what  he  was  not  willing  to  do  first. 
His  leadership  is  of  the  kind  that  leads 
by  both  precept  and  example  (Improve- 
ment Era  48:389). 
The  following  tribute  found  pub- 
lished in  the  Improvement  Era  was 
paid  him  at  the  time  he  departed 
to  preside  over  the  European  Mis- 
sion: 
He  has  a  remarkable  faculty  for  the 
making  of  friends,  his  enemies  even  re- 
specting him.  He  .  .  .  has  never  said  mean 
or  unworthy  things  of  his  opponents. 
This  is  one  of  his  characteristics.  In  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel,  he  does  not  tear 
down  a  man's  house,  but  builds  the  gos- 
pel structure  over  him  with  an  open  and 
loving  invitation  to  inhabit  it  .  .  .  George 
Albert  Smith  is  a  typical  Latter-day  Saint; 
broadminded,  active  in  good  work,  zeal- 
ous in  his  calling,  reliable,  conscientious, 
honest,  clean  in  language  and  action,  faith- 
ful, punctual,  considerate  of  his  fellows, 
high  or  low,  having  confidence  in  God, 
a  man  who  puts  his  soul  into  his  work 
.  .  .  His  actions  in  youth  never  caused 
his  parents  one  moment  of  anxiety,  and 
he  has  kept  in  mind  the  name  he  bears, 
and  honored  it,  believing  truthfully,  that 
no  son  ever  had  a  better  father  and  mother 
than  he  .  .  .  (Improvement  Era  22:791  ff). 
In  1938,  while  planning  a  mis- 
sionary visit  to  the  missions  of  the 
South  Pacific,  he  made  a  remark 
that  is  typical  of  his  attitude  toward 
all  people.    He  said: 
The  Lord  loves  all  men:  they  are  all 
His  children,  and  His  commission  to  His 
Apostles  was  and  is  to  go  forth  and  preach 
the  gospel  to  all  the  world.  That  is  our 
mission  and  our  joy  in  it  will  be  great 
indeed  if  through  any  effort  of  ours  we 
can  help  to  show  these  children  of  God 
in  the  lands  of  the  Pacific  the  way  back 
to  their  eternal  home  (Improvement  Era, 
41:97). 
President  Smith  feels  deeply  his 
appreciation   of  and   faith   in   the 
PARK  FREE! 
SHOP  EASY! 
SA  VE  MORE! 
At  your  nearest  Sears  Store/ 
where  you'll  find  that  GOOD 
QUALITY  ALWAYS  COSTS 
YOU  LESS! 
^ 
REDDY  KILOWATT 
BRING  YOU 
YEAR  'ROUND  COMFORT 
Electricity  performs  many, 
many  household  tasks 
better,  faster  and  at  low 
cost. 
UTAH  POWER 
&  LIGHT  CO.