[Vol37 | January 1950 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Lesson | Title: 48 Visiting Teacher Messages: "Nevertheless Not My Will, but Thine Be Done" Mary Grant Judd]
Nevertheless, to salve her conscience, to say she had tried, she went to the telephone and dialed the number listed. A man's voice answered. Edith summoned her sweetest voice and said, "My name is Edith Ashe, Mrs. Marvin Ashe. I am calling in answer to your advertisement." She was prepared for a flood of questions, or to be told that the position was filled. Instead, his breath came out in relief. "Mrs. Marvin Ashe? I'm so glad you called. No one else has called yet, and I was getting desperate. I have to leave for Chicago at nine o'clock in the morning. Can you be here at eight? Call a cab and come to 1218
North Walnut. I'll pay your fare. Can you do that?" "IT guess so. Yes," said Edith hesitatingly. "Fine! I'll depend upon that," he said, and hung up. Edith stood by the telephone, undecided whether to call him back and refuse this preposterous arrangement. What kind of man would hire a person without question? She would call him, yes—later. Now she could still feel the urgency of his voice. She went upstairs to look over her clothes and toilet articles— just in case, her knees feeling peculiarly weak and her head light with unreality. Kit would make short work of this silliness. * Ke Ke "Well, mother. You just can't do it," declared Kit matter-of-factly when she told them at dinner. Annette's eyes widened apprehensively and sought Kit's. Kit nodded slightly. "What's his number? I'll call him now." "T've left the poor man depending upon me. No doubt he's told other applicants the place is filled. Of course I shall go." Annette's eyes filled with tears. "Mother," she said, "I've hoped all day that you didn't hear me this morning. I'm so ashamed, and so sorry. That's it, isn't it?" (To be continued) Page 37
You Can Learn (Continued from page 29) what has happened to us. She always has the water boiling and is ready to start by the time I get there," | said as I guided Freckles through the lane gate. "Mother does, too; she is such an early riser," Mary assented. "We don't get done any too early, though, and I have to go around the ward for the Relief Society this afternoon." "Mother has to go, too. She won't be there to worry about me overdoing if I get part of my ironing done while I am down there where I can use the electric iron. She always says I try to kill myself in one day, but I just love to iron with the electric iron. I guess I'm spoiled. She doesn't like me to take the baby's clothes in, a piece here and there as they dry and spoil the looks of her beautiful lines, either," I sighed. "Well, there is on

--- Ad content from V37_01_21_Art_