LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MAY?CIVIC PRIDE Improving outside of houses, churches, school houses; repairing, painting, etc. Repair doors, screens, windows, fences, gates, porches, floors, foot-bridges, etc. A survey of your own premises may reveal many needs. (A school teacher recently called at a home where as a boy, he delivered milk. He was surprised to find the same horse-shoe nail holding the door knob, which as a boy he dreaded as he frequently hurt his hand upon the nail. The proper screw could have replaced the horse-shoe nail at the cost of one penny.) Renew exterior of buildings with suitable paints and kalsomines. (Paint protects wood, lengthens its life, and reduces fire hazard. It also beautifies the buildings. ) The following summary of work done by one community deserves special recognition. It shows strikingly the many lines of activity that entered into the campaign: Number of days of organized clean-up work 20. Number of people out to Work 436 Number of old buildings removed -...........11 Number of towns improving source of water supply............1.. Number of towns improving method of sewage disposal.............1. Number of public buildings painted............14 Number of public buildings removed.....17 Number of public buildings inspected for fire...... 6 Number of business buildings painted 16. Number of business buildings renovated 18. Number of business buildings inspected for fire...........3. Number of public grounds beautified 12 Number of private grounds beautified 109 14. Number of vacant lots cleaned Up........11 15. Number of new roads built ?4 16. Number of new bridges built 35  Number of new homes built.8. Number of homes improving source of water.........15. Number of homes improving sewage disposal 8. Number of homes painted 42. Number of fences painted 10.. Number of homes screened against flies?33. Number of loads of old manure removed....400 24. Number of loads of garbage hauled on clean- -up days...145. Number of new barns built...6   26. Number of old barns torn 7 27. Number of new lawns made ..16. Number of persons who planted trees and shrubs......58 29. Number who planted flower gardens....... 278 30. Number who cleaned up the front yards...568  31. Number who cleaned up back yards........490 32. Number of side walks built10 33. Number of new fences Built 17  34. Number of new gates Built 149 LESSON III  Literature (Third 'Week in May) CHARLOTTE PERKINS GILMAN Charlotte Perkins: Gilman is rightly regarded one of the foremost women of America at the present time. She was born July 3, 1860, in Hartford, Connecticut, and is now making her home in the state of her nativity. Mr. Gilman is her second husband. Her first marriage was to Mr. Stetson by whom she had one child, a daughter. She is well known among the groups of women who have made a struggle for larger freedom and a fuller life for women. Her name is found among those who led the fight for suffrage. Practically all the votes that have been taken, in recent years, in an effort to determine who are the ten or twelve outstanding women in America have contained her name. She is a philosopher, and does much of her thinking in what might be called philosophic terms. The Germans early discovered this trait in her writing, consequently she was a welcome guest in their midst. When she visited the International Council of Women, held in Berlin, they made very good use of her. She would address a group of people that entirely filled the hall, and as soon as they had gone, another group would take the place of the one gone. This was repeated four or five times each day. She is a natural reformer. She stopped a young man in one of our Utah towns who was riding a bicycle on the sidewalk and asked him why he did it when it was against the city ordinance. She noticed a natural embankment that was being destroyed and made unsightly through carelessness and lack of civic pride, and remarked, "If that unsightly bridge were removed the bank following the natural course of this stream could be made a spot of exceptional beauty." I am sorry that Mrs. Gilman has not been able to visit the place in recent years and observe that the old, tumbled-down bridge has been removed and that the embankment is now made beautiful with ornamental shrubbery. Mrs. Gilman is a thinker. She turns things over in her mind, asking the why and wherefore of it all. If there is not good and sufficient reason why old forms should be adhered to, then she is perfectly willing to discard them and put in their place new things. Her mind is exceedingly active, she is always analyzing and examining. There are very few women on the platform as brilliant and as clever as she. For years she has visited university centers, 
 and other places of culture, and delivered lectures. She is equal to any audience. She is one of the best examples I have ever known of a person whose prestige is born of a clear brain and a clever tongue. She is medium-sized and of a very slight figure, with dark, snapping eyes. While she is comely enough she is in no way a woman who would be styled beautiful, and yet there is that in the brilliance of her mind, and the extreme cleverness of her speech, that holds her audiences spellbound. She has also invaded the field of child welfare. Many years ago Mrs. Gilman pointed to the fact that homes are built for grown-ups and not for children. She told us that the steps of a house are made for the adults as are practically all the pieces of furniture that are to be found in the home. Today we are living in a period when educators are demanding that places be built and furnished to meet the little people's needs. Out of this theory, and another which is receiving great emphasis, which is that the early years are the years in the child's life that are of immense importance, many persons are becoming very prominent in educational circles. In the field of letters she is versatile. She once published a little magazine for which she did all the writing. The poetry, the story, the philosophic articles and the editorials were all her own. She comes by her literary gifts honestly, for she is of the Beecher family, counting among her relatives the great preacher, Henry Ward Beecher, and the novelist, Harriet Beecher Stowe. There are about. Twelve books to her credit, her best works being: Women and Economics (1898), and Human Work (1904). Her volume of verse, In This Our World (1898), to use the words of Untermeyer "hurls many a shaft of ironic wit." Her poem "A Conservative" is an attack on the type of person who stands in the way of progress. Mr. Untermeyer says that it is "a sub-acid satire not easily forgotten." A CONSERVATIVE The garden beds I wandered by One bright and cheerful morn, When I found a new-fledged butterfly, A-sitting on a thorn, A black and crimson butterfly All doleful and forlorn. I thought that life could have no sting To infant butterflies, So I gazed on this unhappy thing With wonder and surprise, While sadly with his waving wing He wiped his weeping eyes. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY Said I, 'What can the matter be? Why weepest thou so sore? With garden fair and sunlight free And flowers in goodly store,'? But he only turned away from me And burst into a roar. Cried he, ""My legs are thin and few Where once I had a swarm! Soft fuzzy fur?a joy to view? Once kept my body warm, Before these flapping wing-things grew, To hamper and deform!" At that outrageous bug I shot The fury of mine eye; Said I, in scorn all burning hot, In rage and anger high, "You ignominious idiot! Those wings are made to fly! 3x) "I do not want to fly," said he, "I only want to squirm!" And he drooped his wings dejectedly, But still his voice was firm: "I do not want to be a fly! I want to be a worm!" O yesterday of unknown lack, To-day of unknown bliss! I left my fool in red and black; The last I saw was this,? The creature madly climbing back Into his chrysalis. 151 A poem full of stimulating and suggestive thought is that entitled "If a Man May Not Eat Neither Can He Work." We include it: If A Man May Not Eat Neither Can HE Work How can he work? He never has been taught The free use of what faculties he had. Why should he work? Who ever yet has thought To give a love of working to the lad. How can he work? His life has felt the lack Of all that makes us work; the proud, the free, Each saying to the world, "I give you back Part of the glory you have given me" We 
 Why should he work? He has no honor high, Born of great trust and wealth and sense of power; Honor, that makes us yearn before we die To add our labor to the world's rich dower. How can he work? He has no inner strength Urging him on to action, no desire To strain and wrestle, to achieve at length, Burning in all his veins,?a hidden fire. Why should he work? There is no debt behind That man's nobility most longs to pay; No claim upon him,?only the one blind Brute instinct that his dinner lies that way. And that is not enough. Who may not eat Freely at life's full table all his youth, Can never work in power and joy complete, In fulness, and in honor, and in truth.
"His Own Labor" is a stimulating poem, particularly in view of recent discussion in Congress on the McNary-Haugen Bill.
His Own Labor
Let every man be given what he earns!
We cry, and call it justice. Let him have
The product of his labor?and no more!
Well, then, let us begin with life's first needs,
And give him of the earth what he can make;
As much of air and light as he can make,
As much of ocean, and sweet wind and rain,
And flowers, and grass, and fruit, as he can make.
But no, we answer this is mockery:
No man makes these things. But of human wealth
Let every man be given what he makes,
The product of his labor, and no more.
Ah, well! So to the farmer let us give
Corn, and still corn, and only corn at last.
So to the grazier, meat; the fisher, fish;
Cloth to the weaver; to the mason, walls;
And let the writer sit and read his books?
The product of his labor?and naught else!
But no, we answer! Still you laugh at us.
We mean not his own labor in that sense,
But his share in the work of other men.
As much of what they make as he can buy
In fair exchange for labor of his own.
So let it be. As much of life's rich fruit?
The product of the labor of the world?
As he can equal with his own two hands,
His own supply of energy and skill!
As much of Shakespeare, Homer, Socrates,
As much of Wagner, Beethoven and Bach,
As much of Franklin, Morse, and Edison,
As much of Watt, and Stephenson and Bell,
Of Euclid, Aristotle, Angelo,
Columbus, Raleigh, and George Washington,
Of all the learning of our patient years,
Of all the peace and smoothness we have won,
Of all the heaped up sciences and arts,
And luxuries that man has ever made,?
He is to have what his own toil can match!
Or, passing even this, giving no thought
To this our heritage, our vast bequest,
Condemn him to no more of human help
From living men than he can give to them!
Toil of the soldiers on the western plains,
Toil of the hardened sailors on the sea,
Toil of the sweating ploughman in the field,
The engine-driver, digger in the mine,
And weary weaver in the roaring mill.
Of all the hands and brains and hearts that toil
To fill the world with riches day by day,
Shall he have naught of this but what one man
Can give return for from his own supply?
Brother?There is no payment in the world!
We work and pour our labor at the feet
Of those who are around us and to come.
We live and take our living at the hands
Of those who are around us and have been.
No one is paid. No person can have more
Than he can hold. And none can do beyond
The power that's in him. To each child that's born
Belongs as much of all our human good
As he can take and use to make him strong.
And from each man, debtor to all the world,
Is due the fullest fruit of all his powers,
His whole life's labor, proudly rendered up,
Not as return?can moments pay an age?
But as the simple duty of a man.
Can he do less?receiving everything?
"Hardly A Pleasure" is a bit of contrast work that is characteristic of some of the things that Mrs. Gilman does:
Hardly A Pleasure
She had found it dull in her city;
So had they, in a different mob.
She traveled to look for amusement;
They traveled to look for a job.
She was loaded with fruit and candy,
And her section piled with flowers,
With magazines, novels, and papers
To shorten the weary hours.
Her friends came down in a body
With farewells merry and sweet,
And left her with laughter and kisses,
On the broad plush-cushioned seat.
She was bored before she started,
And the journey was dull and far.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure!"
Said the girl in the palace car.
Then they skulked out in the darkness
And crawled under the cars,
To ride on the trucks as best they might,
To hang by the chains and bars.
None came to see their starting,
And their friendliest look that day
Was that of a green young brakeman,
Who looked the other way.
They were hungry before they started,
With the hunger that turns to pain?
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure,"
Said the three men under the train.
She complained of the smoke and cinders,
She complained of the noise and heat,
She complained of the table service,
She complained of the things to eat.
She said it was so expensive,
In spite of one's utmost care;
That tipping the porters and waiters
Cost as much as a third-class fare.
That the seats were dirty and stuffy,
That the berths were worse by far.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure!"
Said the girl in the palace car.
They hung on in desperate silence,
For a word was a tell-tale shout;
Their foul hats low on their bloodshot eyes,
To keep the cinders out.
The dirt beat hard on their faces,
The noise beat hard on their ears,
And a moment's rest to a straining limb
Meant the worst of human fears.
They clutched and clung in the darkness
While the stiffness turned to pain.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure,"
Said the three men under the train.
She stepped airily out in the morning,
When the porter had brushed her awhile.
She gave him a silver dollar;
He gave her an ivory smile.
She complained to her friends that morning
Of a most distressing dream:
"I thought I heard in the darkness
A sort of a jolting scream!
"I thought I felt in the darkness
The great wheels joggle and swing;
Traveling's hardly a pleasure
When you dream such a horrible thing!"
They crept shuddering out in the morning,
Red spots with the coal's black stain.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure!"
Said the two men under the train.
Questions and Problems
1. What message does Mrs. Gilman put over in her poem "If A Man May Not Eat Neither Can He Work?" Do you think her philosophy sound in this poem? If so, why? If not, why?
2. Discuss the poem "His Own Labor," and see how many helpful thoughts you can bring into the discussion.
3. What purpose had Mrs. Gilman in writing "Hardly a Pleasure?"
4. Do you think persons who have many blessings are prone to complain at trifles? If so, what do you think of the ethics of such behavior?
5. Point to some lines in "A Conservative" that justify Mr. Untermeyer's observation concerning "sub-acid satire." ?Pleasure?" 156