Guide Lessons for May Theology and Testimony THE WOMEN OF THE MESSIANIC DISPENSATION (Continued) LESSON I (First Week in May) MARTHA AND MARY OF BETHANY The third and fourth in line of great women are Martha and Mary. These two women came into prominence through being privileged to entertain the Savior. They are known as the sisters of Bethany. Bethany is a small village outside of Jerusalem, not far from the Mount of Olives. Whatever this village may have been in the time of the Savior, today it consists only of a few mud houses with fewer inhabitants. It is practically a deserted village. Both Mary and Martha appear to have been exceptional entertainers; one with a special interest in providing for the physical comfort of guests, and the other, gifted with that ability which supplies spiritual enjoyment. The home of these sisters seems to have been the frequent resting place of the Lord, during his ministry; and he was affectionately interested in the family consisting of Lazarus, whom he raised from the dead, and the two sisters. In fact the Bible expressly tells us that Jesus loved them. The hospitality of these sisters was not limited to the capacity of their own home, {for they were chief hostesses at a feast at the house of Simon the leper. This house might have been rented for the occasion. In any event, just why they were here is not made clear. Martha comes into historical prominence in her own home. When Jesus said what is recorded in Luke 10:38-42, the name of Martha became immortal. Her over-anxiety and worry brought from the Master a most concise address on values. Without detracting from the value and interest in physical things he pointed out the incompleteness of life without a major interest. Undoubtedly Mary as well as Martha was interested in the supper and might have served at the table, but her preference led her to a service more spiritual than temporal, and this choice of placing the spiritual before the temporal is what Jesus called "that good part; the one thing needful." It was not the special form of entertainment given to the guest, so much as it was the giving of preference to the spiritual that Jesus emphasized. Mary came into everlasting prominence at the time of the feast given in honor of 'Jesus at the house of Simon the leper. Mary and Martha appear to be chief hostesses at a feast given in appreciation of the restoration of their brother. The people gathered at the house came with a variety of motives. Some were eager to hear any message of truth that might fall from the Savior's lips. Others were anxious to find some occasion for further condemning the Master, while yet others sought some grievance against Lazarus, for they feared the effect that his return from the dead might have upon the people. It was on this occasion that Mary took "an alabaster box of ointment of spikenard, very precious; and she brake the box and poured it on his head." and Jesus proclaimed her services as an anointing for his burial and prophetically declared the fame of her name to the end of time in these memorable words "Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken ~ of for a memorial of her." (Mark 14:9.) It is certainly no small fame to have one's name linked with that of the Savior '"'wheresoever this gospel shall be preached." No such promise was made to the woman who entered the house of Simon, the Pharisee one who was a sinner, took an alabaster box and "weeping began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment." (Luke 7:36-38.) The Lord recognized all that this woman did as prompted by the spirit of gratitude, and her compensation was the assurance from Him that her sins were forgiven. The chapter under the caption, "In the House of Simon the Leper" Jesus the Christ, by Talmage, page 510, will prove of interest to 'our readers. Questions and Problems 1. Prove by a comparison of the proceedings at the meal served at the home of Simon, the Pharisee, and the entertainment at the home of Simon, the leper, that Mary of Bethany was not the woman spoken of as a sinner. 2. Correlate the first commandment of the decalogue with the lesson on values given by the Savior to Martha. 3. Discuss the desirability of having Mary and Martha in one individual. 148 UE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON