Notes_from_Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Northern States Mission (Detroit Branch.) The Relief Society of the Detroit branch of the Northern States mission has done most excellent work during the past year. Besides the regular lessons, the Society has been active in the field of genealogical study and research. The mothers' committee carried out a most successful program. They first established a maternity chest, and later placed health bulletins in the hands of members: 1638 bulletins in sets of 26 were presented to 63 mothers. Prenatal letters, a series of 10, were also sent to 9 expectant mothers.
Australian Mission. On November 16, 1926, a Relief Society branch was organized at Sydney, Australia, under the direction of President Charles H. Hyde, and Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of Australian Relief Societies. There were eleven charter members, some of whom had belonged to the Relief Society in England and other conferences. All of the eleven members have subscribed for the Relief Society Magazine. The officers are: president, Mrs. Edith Woodford; counselors, Mrs. Edith Seaich and Mrs. Barbara Bain; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Elizabeth Brady.

Northcentral States Mission. Mrs. Harriet H. Allred, president of the mission Relief Societies, writes that all the branches have been visited during the year, and a conference held in each. The Winnipeg branch made quite a lovely selection of fancy work and quilts and held a profitable bazaar. They also gave a very successful Thanksgiving dinner, at which over a hundred were seated. This was followed by a musical evening. The Harlem, Montana, branch sends in favorable reports to mission headquarters. They have also held a successful bazaar and are holding meetings regularly. The branch at Minneapolis is very much alive and appreciates the lessons outlined. They hold very successful meetings. In connection with. He social service lessons they are taking a short course in child welfare, given by the University of Minnesota. They held a bazaar recently, at which they cleared $103. They have also raised funds from newspaper sales. From the last sale of this kind they realized over $9. Another sum of $10 was received from a Frigidaire company, which offered an award to a group of ladies, of any denomination, numbering over twenty, which would attend their demonstration. The St. Paul branch reports a good spirit prevailing. They have held a bazaar and also several basket parties.
Twin Falls Stake. The Relief Society officers conducted a convention at the opening of Fall work. All phases of Relief Society work were outlined in talks and demonstrations, each ward in the stake as well as the stake board contributing to the following program: Opening address, President Kate Kirkman; song, Buhl ward; talk on recreational work, Kimberly ward; rest exercise, Twin Falls ward; "How to Teach," stake board; talk on social service, Twin Falls ward; chorus, Twin Falls Relief Society; talk on enlistment work, stake board; Demonstration on teaching in the home, Murtaugh ward; teachers' work, stake board. Dainty refreshments were served, followed by folk dances and games. The Twin Falls ward Relief Society conducted a very successful bazaar and chicken dinner from which the sum of $250 was cleared. An additional $250 was taken from the treasury, making a total of $500, which was given to the new tabernacle fund. Emma Lucy Gates appeared recently in Twin Falls in a concert recital. She very generously offered her time and talents to the Relief Society for a second concert,. To which she presented all Relief Society members with free tickets. Other tickets were sold, from which $100 was cleared. This was also given to the tabernacle fund. The whole stake was grateful for the kind act of Utah's talented singer.
Mount Ogden Stake.. In July a Home Nursing course of fifteen lessons was given at the Dee Hospital under the direction of the Red Cross. Two board members and six members from the various wards availed themselves of this opportunity and received their certificates for the work done. The course was sponsored by the four stakes in Weber county, each stake sending a member from each ward. On July 15, Mt. Ogden stake had a very successful field day at Lagoon, at which 225 were present. September 29, a luncheon was given by the board members to eighty: five people, including the stake presidency and their wives, past and present members of the Weber stake Relief Society board, all ward presidents, counselors, secretaries, organists and choristers of the stake Relief Societies. After luncheon a short program was given, and presentation of gifts to past first counselor Elizabeth D, Thomas, who resigned a few months ago, also to Emma B. Shreeve, stake class leader, who also resigned on account of ill health, in recognition of the splendid work done by them. On October 24, successful Relief Society conferences were held simultaneously in all of the wards of the stake, at which board members were present. The work and business meetings have been most successful in 1926. Besides other work, during the year thirty demonstrations have been held on such work as the making of pockets and bound button-holes, pressing and cleaning, flower making, millinery, salads, soups, sandwiches, cottage cheese, etc., etc., The meetings were held regularly throughout the Summer months in all the wards. Great interest has been created for the work meeting by the splendid efforts put forth by the officers and those called into this special work. The visiting teachers are also doing excellent work. Once each month one of the wards spends a day sewing at the Dee Hospital. During the year 1004 articles were made. St. George Stake. The St. George stake Relief Society held a visiting teachers' contest during the past year. Eleven of the wards attained 100% efficiency. Qne year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine was presented to the winning wards. The Enterprise ward has arranged to give the toxin anti-toxin treatment to the children of their ward. Over 200 applications for the children have been received. The Relief Society has now secured the cooperation of the Town Board in this movement. Kolob Stake (Springville First Ward.) Tuesday, November 30, 1926, a social afternoon was given in honor of the officers of the First ward Relief Society, by the class leaders. The program was as follows: Hymn, "Scatter Sunshine," by the congregation; prayer; violin solo; humorous 
 stunt, "The Dumb Waiter,' Theological department; reading, "How Columbus Discovered America" literary department; piano selections. The crowning event came from the social service department. It was the rendition of "Cornelia," as given in the November Magazine. Parowan Stake. In addition to the regular Relief Society work outlined in the Magazine the Parowan stake has had various special activities in all the wards, such as bazaars, fairs, special entertainments for the old folks, banquets, contest work, lectures by eminent speakers and numerous others. 'The wards now number eleven with the creation of the \Parowan East and Cedar Third, this year. The majority of the wards own their own halls, either bought or built outright, furnished and equipped by the efforts of the niembers. Block teaching has been aided materially by the earnest work of the supervisors, 100% being reported in some wards. Successful conferences have been held in all wards during 1926. Two or more visits have been made to each ward by the stake board members. Taylor Stake. Early in the year the Taylor stake held a teachers' convention. The stake officers with some little help outside, put on a little play, showing how the visiting teachers should conduct their visits in the home, and how the hostess should treat the visiting teachers. After this demonstration an ideal work and business meeting was given, the teachers separating from the rest of the meeting for their reports and topics, while the remaining members worked on articles for the bazaar, which they had up for exhibition. (Following this demonstration the little play, "Out of Work," was presented. Over 75% of the visiting teachers of the stake witnessed these demonstrations, which were put on in every community. On September 21, programs were held in honor of "Motherhood" in afl the wards, and prizes were offered to the following mothers: the oldest member of the Relief Society (there was one sister who had been a member 56 years, three who had been members 51, and one, 49, and one 48),; the one with the best attendance at Relief Society; the teacher with the best record for visits and for using the topic; the one with the largest family (one mother 'present who had had 16 children, four who had had 14); the one who had had triplets (two mothers present); the one with the largest number of sons (several with 10); the one with the largest number of daughters (some with 10); the one who had twins (27 mothers); the oldest mother; the youngest mother; the one with the youngest baby. Some of the wards gave prizes for the oldest and youngest great grandmother and the youngest grandmother. Very good programs were arranged for this. Day, on the subject of motherhood. In one of the wards the members came dressed in costumes, representing the styles from 1847 until 1926; in another ward 18 members were dressed to represent the first Relief Society, and the one representing Emma Smith gave a brief synopsis of the organization of the Relief Society. During 'the latter part of September and the first part of October, Sunday Relief Society ward conferences were held in each ward, and with musical numbers arranged for by the ward officers, the following topics were given: "What membership in the Relief Society means to the L. D. S. Woman," by a board member; "Accomplishments of the Relief Society, General and Stake, 1925," by board member; Report from the ward president; "What the Relief Society means to my Ward," by the bishop of the ward. On October 15, the stake board entertained the executive officers of the wards. 'One feature of the entertainment was the placing about the room of '15 little water-colored paintings representing writings taken up in the literary department, and the one getting the largest number correct, was given a nice painting for a prize. Most of those present got at least 50% correct, and some over 70%, which indicated that they had remembered their literary work very well. Games and refreshments were enjoyed. The following report card is sent out to each ward for a monthly report: Number of officers enrolled; Visiting teachers; Members; Average attendance, officers; Average attendance, visiting teachers; Average attendance, members; Number of visits of stake officers; Number of prayer meetings held; Number of meetings with bishop; Number of preparatory officers' meetings; Number of districts visited; Work and business day feature; Weekly music practice; Number: prepared with lesson; (careful reading considered prepared); Number endowed for; Report on scriptural reading. In some of the wards a comparative report of the present month with the preceding month is put on the board, so all members can see whether or not the Society is progressing. This report is proving very beneficial, especially in getting the members to read their lessons, and do their scriptural reading: Garfield Stake. At the beginning of the year 1926 Garfield stake Relief Society headquarters at Antimony, Utah, instituted what was termed an "efficiency contest." This contest had a two-fold purpose: first to have every home in the stake visited monthly by ward teachers, and secondly to increase the attendance at ward Relief Society meetings. Two prizes were offered, one for 100% teaching, which meant that every home in every district must be visited before the monthly report meeting, and one for the greatest increase in attendance of the active enrollment in the ward. At the end of June, when the contest closed, six of the eight wards 
 reported 100% teaching. In the other two wards the teaching was done, but one district in each ward failed to report until after report day. Boulder ward, an isolated district, so scattered that some of the women have to go five miles to meeting, won the attendance contest, having an average of 82%. The prizes given were six copies of Heart Throbs, and one to Boulder of the combined copy of the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. For the summer months, July, August and September, the following program was carried out in the wards: The first and second Tuesdays were held as usual. Vor the third, or literature day, the ward Relief Societies staged the Booth Tarkington play Station Y Y Y Y, charged a very small Admission, and turned the proceeds over to the stake. The other meeting in July was an outdoor picnic for all married people. All wards reported a most excellent time. Literature day of August was taken up by a lesson on Gene Stratton-Porter, followed in the evening by her motion picture, "The Keeper of the Bees." The social service day of August was placed in charge of the community extension leader for instruction in salad and sandwich making. In September the lives of two former Relief Society General Presidents, Eliza R. Snow and Emmeline B. 'Wells, were discussed, and for social service work there was special instruction in plain sewing and pattern cutting. The teachers have been most willing and diligent workers. It is felt by the officers of this stake that much of the success achieved in Relief Society work this year is due to them. Each ward has held, as suggested by the stake, a teachers' preparation meeting the first Monday night of each month. In this meeting the teachers' topic and teachers' problems have been discussed. Two teachers' conventions were held in the stake in September, one on each side of the Escalante Mountain. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, of the General Buard, who was attending the group convention, and Elder Charles F.E. Rowan, president of the stake, attended the first convention. This convention included the two Escalante wards and Boulder. The other, held later at Junction, included Widtsoe, Marion, Kingston, Circleville and Junction. Elder Joseph Epson represented the stake presidency at this convention. Both meetings were exceptionally well attended by the teachers, the program outlined by the General Board was followed most successfully, and the teachers expressed themselves as having been very greatly benefited. Rigby Stake. A very splendid Relief Society teachers' conference-convention was held in the Rigby Stake tabernacle, September 24. Roll call showed all the stake board members present except two, and a large number of officers, teachers and members from each ward. There were also present members of the stake presidency, and NOTES FROM THE FIELD -145 high councilmen and bishops from several of the wards, together with representatives from Idaho Falls stake, Yellowstone and Teton stakes. In addition to excellent musical numbers the following topics were discussed: The Work and Business Meeting: The Value of the Teacher to the Association and the Community; The Use of the Teachers' Book; The Object and Time of the Teachers' Visit; Spirit and result of the Teachers' Visit. Mrs. Mayme Laird, president of the Relief Societies of the Idaho Falls stake, gave an interesting talk on Child Welfare and Maternity Work, and President Lucy P. Lloyd of the Yellowstone stake Relief Societies, and President Josiah Call of the Rigby stake, also addressed the convention. During the noon recess a delicious luncheon was served to 235 people. Curlew Stake. During the past year a Relief Society conference has been held in each of the ten wards which are widely scattered, the nearest being four miles, the other wards ranging from eighteen to forty-six miles. It requires much faith, patience and sacrifice to visit them all. These conferences have been favored with the presence of members of the stake presidency, ward bishopric, members of the stake Relief Society presidency and board members, all of which has been greatly appreciated. They have been among the most pleasant and profitable meetings of the year. In July a Relief Society teachers' convention was held, being well attended by presidents, teachers, and members of the various wards. One number of the program especially well given was the demonstrating of the teachers' topic, "Patriotism," by members of the board. It filled the teachers with a desire to carry messages of peace and love and loyalty into every home. In the early part of September a very successful. Health conference was held at Holbrook, Idaho, under the auspices of the Bureau of. Child Hygiene of the State of Idaho, assisted by members of the stake Relief Society. Many mothers and babies were examined by a lady doctor, assisted by several nurses. It was felt that much good will result from this clinic. Maternity bundles have been placed in every ward. Recently the stake Relief Society, assisted by ward presidents, entertained in honor of the Curlew stake presidency, high' counselors and bishops in the Holbrook Hall, with President Rebecca Cutler presiding. A splendid program was given, consisting of appropriate songs, readings and musical numbers. One outstanding feature of the program was "A Message of Appreciation," given by one of the board members, in which she expressed the feelings of the stake board regarding the splendid support and cooperation given to the board by the local workers and the priesthood. Following the program a delicious tray luncheon with an abundance of fruits and melons was served to all present.. Guide Lessons for May