[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Fiction | Title: Martha | Author: Songs]
[Martha H. McKaig Composes Lyrics and Music for Children's Songs]
THE  BRIGHT  STAR 
389 
chosen  a  hard  role.  Artists  and 
writers  are  a  dime  a  dozen.  Better 
forget  contests  and  get  married. 
Don't  tell  me  that  fellow  with  the 
scrubbed  look  about  him  comes  to 
see  auntie." 
Kathy  was  angry  again.  She 
clutched  the  pan  of  peas  in  one 
hand,  and  with  the  other  gingerly 
accepted  the  picture  Marc  handed 
her,  and  started  up  through  the  ber- 
ry patch,  the  red-gold  of  her  hair 
flashing  in  the  last  rays  of  the  sun. 
At  least,  she  thought,  ''that  fellow 
with  the  scrubbed  look"  has  some- 
thing you  don't  have,  Mr.  Marc 
Hale,  as  she  thought  of  him  now 
being  an  elder. 
Her  anger  had  softened  a  little  by 
the  time  she  reached  the  house.  I 
wonder  what  church  he  does  belong 
to?  she  asked  herself.  Since  Aunt 
Em's  illness,  Kathy  hadn't  been 
able  to  get  to  church  as  often  as  she 
liked.  She  missed  the  peaceful, 
secure  feeling  she  got  from  attend- 
ing services  in  the  little  ward  chapel 
in  San  Rafael,  the  warmth  of  her 
many  friends. 
(To  be  continued) 
1 1  iartha   ui.   1 1  icJvaig   (j^ornposes  JL^ncs  and    1 1  Lusic 
for  L^hilaren's  Songs 
ALTHOUGH   she   is   nearly   ninety-one  years  of  age,   Martha   Hardy 
McKaig  of  Oakland,  California,  enjoys  many     varied  activities  and 
hobbies.    Besides  writing  the  lyrics  for  children's  songs,  she  also  composes 
the  score  for  the  songs.    Sister  McKaig  is  a  fine  quilter  and  homemaker  and 
still  bakes  excellent  bread.    She  is  active  in  the  Church  auxiliaries. 
Mrs.  McKaig  was  born  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Utah  in  the  class  of  1886.    She  is  the  mother  of  four  children, 
grandmother  to  five,  and  great-grandmother  to  ten. 
She  has  seen  the  branch  Relief  Society  in  Oakland  grow  into  three 
stakes  with  more  than  forty  Relief  Society  organizations.    She  has  devoted 
many  years  to  Relief  Society  compassionate  services.