[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 35 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes]
Doxey, author of the Relief Society theology lessons, "Ihe Doctrine and Covenants," was born in Ogden, Utah, the son of Thomas and Bessie Wat- NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF THE LESSONS 411 kins Doxey. He was graduated from Weber College and earned his A. B. And Master's degree from George Washington University, Washington, D. C., in 1940. He was elected to membership in Pi Gamma Mu, social science honorary society, and Omicron Delta Gamma, honorary economics fraternity, while attending George Washington University. Elder Doxey was a housing economist with the National Housing Administration until 1944, at which time he was called to be the PresiBooks for the dent of the Eastern States Mission, CHURCH ORG ANIST with headquarters in New York: =. Ie AT THE CONSOLE—Felton 2.50 City. He served in this capacity for —. CHANCEL ECHOES—Felton _ 2.50 more than four and one-half years. I I ----- CHAPEL ORGANIST—Presser 1.50 In 1948, he became a member of I I ~~ a i a Bled the faculty of Brigham Young Uni- I I FIRST LESSONS ON THE versity, where he is chairman of the EAT: a 1.75 department of Bible and modern — SERVICE SELECTIONS 1 & 2— scripture in the division of religion. Kohhmann --------s-ccoeeeeeeneesea. 1.25 He has long served the Church in I I ~~ LIGHTER MOODS—Presser _.. 1.50 ee ee ee 93 SHORT SOLOS—Schirmer __ 2.50 both Priesthood and auxiliary lead- I } _ ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper 2.75 Gislip"capacities, "" ORGAN METHOD-—Stainer 2.50 ¥ ee II ORGAN VOLUNTARIES 1 & 2— He served in the bishopric of the Schreiner eseseeeccsceeeeneeeeesea. 3.50 Arlington Ward, Washington (D. I I ~~ 33 FAVORITE ORGAN SOLOS— Schirmer 2 22200---cceceeenenenceee 1.50 C.) Stake and also was active in stake a. Music Sent on Approval mussionary work and on the high Use this advertisement as your order blank council in the Nation's capital. In ae ae 1930, Elder Doxey served a mission ——— fo for the Church in Eastern Canada. Since the latter part of 1948, he has been a member of the general board of the Y. M. M. I. A. Elder Doxey married Alberta Opheikens, in the Salt Lake Temple Wailees in August of 1934, and they are the I I I I City & State parents of three sons and one daugh- I I I-------------------------------e! Ter: Douglas Allen, seventeen; lm, Clarke Benson, thirteen; Kimball immo. Roy, eleven; and Cheryl Diane, He is the author of lessons for L45 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOS! Salt Lake City 11, Uta I I I 15 E. Ist South I Salt Lake City 11, Utah I I Please send the music indicated above. [) On Approval CL] Charge I L Money Enclosed I eight. 412 the M. I. A. And has written articles for The Relief Society Magazine and The Improvement Era. He is the author of The Doctrine and Covenants and the Future, the second edition of which is now just off the press. Under the direction of the First Presidency, he delivered a series of addresses during the latter part of 1955 over Radio Station KSL on the Sunday Evening Program of the Church. CHRISTIN FE, H. Robinson, author of the visiting teacher messages, was appointed a member of the general board of Relief Society in May 1948. She is a daughter of Bryant S. Hinckley and Christine Johnson Hinckley. Her mother died when Christine was an infant, and she was reared in the home of her maternal grandparents in Provo, Utah, and educated in the Provo City schools and Brigham Young University. Later, she attended New York University where she specialized in home economics and interior decorating. For several years she was a teacher in the Foster School of Fine Arts in New York City. Sister Robinson is the wife of O. Preston Robinson, General Manager of the Deseret News Publishing Company, and the mother of three children: Miriam Rebholz; Bruce Hinckley Robinson, recently _ returned from the British Mission; and Christine Carol, a high school student. The family lived for twenty years in New York City, where Sister Robinson was active in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, particularly in Relief Society, where she was a class leader, and later served as a counselor in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Dear Friend: The Historic Train, originated by us in 1933, has through the years thrilled literally hundreds who have acclaimed it "The Best Trip they have Ever had." Our 1957 Historie Train is more inclusive than ever, for, besides all the things it has always included, (Nauvoo, Kirtland, Sharon, Vt., Hill Cumorah Pageant, ete., etc.) there is the JAMESTOWN FESTIVAL, celebrating the Three Hundred and Fiftieth Anniversary of the arrival and establishment of the First Permanent Colony in Our America. Because of the great amount of activity going on in Virginia, All Eyes are turned there this year! Be sure to write for a Day by Day program, and whatever you do, "Don't Miss This Golden Opportunity" to renew your admiration and appreciation of our Forebears. Most sincerely yours, Vida Fox Clawson, 966 East So. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Tel. EM 4-2107. Ee the stake Relief Society presidency. She is a gifted writer and has contributed feature articles to The Rehef Society Magazine and other Church publications. She has also written numerous professional articles for newspapers and magazines, and collaborated with her husband in writing the well-known text and reference book Successful Retail Selling. LDER William F. Edwards was born in Emery, Utah, and at the age of eight the family moved to Rigby, Idaho. In common with so many young men, he worked his way through the Brigham Young University and there met his eternal sweetheart, Catherine Eyring. They were married in the Salt Lake Temple, in September 1929, and they have six children: Carolyn (Mrs. NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF THE LESSONS Clifford Cline); Weston, also martied; and Robert, Mildred, Catherine, and William. After graduation, Brother Edwards continued his education at Columbia and New York Universities by working in the financial district. He obtained the Master of Science degree in 1930 and the doctorate of Commercial Science from N. Y. U. Graduate School of Business in 1937. His major subjects of interest were banking, economics, and investments. From 1929 through 1950 Brother Edwards was engaged in investment and banking activities in New York. The family moved West when he was appointed Dean of the College of Commerce at the Brigham Young University, effective in January 1951. In 1953 he was given additional duties as Vice-President in charge of finance and business administration for the University and the Church School System. In April 1957, he was appointed Secretary of Finance to the First Presidency. Always active in the Church, he was President of the New York Stake at the time the family came West. Elder Edwards has had a special interest in the economic welfare of people, and he is qualified by training and experience to present a helpful series of lessons. For biographical sketches of the authors of the literature and social science lessons, see the following references in The Relief Society Magazine: Elder Briant S. Jacobs, July 1949, page 471. Elder John Farr Larson, June 1956, page 412.