[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Edwards]
Work ITlecting—Living More Abundantly Preview of Lessons for 1957-58 Elder William F, Edwards HE purpose of this series of lessons, "Living More Abundantly," is to help each family live more -abundantly. The Prophet Lehi understood so well the real meaning of life when he stated,... "men are, that they might have joy." Every person should be challenged to reach that high ideal to the greatest possible degree. We should strive to have a well-managed home where the wise spending of money will bring a more abundant life. We must desire the more abundant life so strongly that we will challenge our present way of doing things, and change our ways when we find they are not the best. As has been so wisely stated, "We can't make footprints on the sands of time sitting down." Equally, we cannot improve the way of our daily living without dreaming and then working to make those dreams come true. And what could be more thrilling. The questions do not appear at the end of the lessons, but will be embodied in the lessons. Titles for the 1957-58 course of lessons are as follows: Lesson 1. Spending Money Wisely Lesson 2. Increasing Our Standard of Living Lesson 3. Living Economically Lesson 4. Making Money More Valuable Lesson 5. 'The Family and_ the Home Lesson 6. The Importance of Insurance Lesson 7. Debts and 'Trouble Lesson 8. Savings and Added Happiness Ly pene — Shakespeare in Our Lives Preview of Lessons for 1957-58 Elder Briant S. Jacobs WHETHER you come: to Shakespeare new or renewed, this study course should yield abundant challenge and reward. Class leaders who have already enjoyed the first year of "Shakespeare in Our Lives" are eagerly anticipating a second year. Many class leaders believe with us that everyone learns most aptly and memorably from one who is a friend. Shakespeare is a friend and will continue to prove himself so, both in the study course immediately ahead and in decades to come. And just as all good things ceaselessly must be sought, just as necessarily must they be earned—and shared. Prepare to share insight into greatness now. Our primary goal is to help others know Shakespeare well enough that they may come to know themselves more deeply and truly, both individually and in the sustaining groups which comprise our way of life. Three subsidiary goals, but nonetheless vital and compelling, are: Page 407 408 (1) To witness with wonder and humility the workings of genius as Shakespeare organizes reality into communicating words and dramatic art forms; (2) 'To realize more intently within ourselves the timelessness of beauty and immortal truth; (3) To frame Shakespeare's name with the emotions of gratitude and love, inasmuch as he has for all time put great words in our mouths, pure poetry in our ears, and living characters embodying wisdom and insight into our hearts and heads. Our study this year should give us a concept of tragedy as it deals with universal moral issues and is concerned with great problems or weaknesses which mankind faces at one time or another. As last year, the text is G. B. Harrison's edition of Shakespeare's Major Plays and the Sonnets, Harcourt, Brace and Company, 1948. It is recommended that each class leader have this text, which contains footnotes at the bottom of each page and is competently edited. Lesson titles and objectives for 1957-58 follow: Lesson o9—William Shakespeare, Dramatist Objective: To become more aware of Shakespeare's genius in integrating within the art-form of drama _ the great truths and eternal conflicts within all mankind. Lesson 10—Othello, The Moor of Venice (Text, pp. 700-743) Objective: To review and consider pride, jealousy, and passion as tools of self-destruction, through re-experiencing this artistic record of life's truths. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Lesson 11—Twelfth Night, or What You Will (Text, pp. 565-599) Objective: To show that even though exaggerated through comedy situations, Shakespeare's characters reveal to us traits common to all humanity. Lesson 12—The Hamlet. Frame (Text, pp. 600-654) Objective: To appreciate Shakespeare's most provocative drama that we may find new meaning for our own lives and deeper or more adequate expression to our thoughts. Lesson 13—Hamlet, Prisoner in Denmark ('Text, pp. 600-654) Objective: To seek to understand Hamlet's mind and heart, that we may better understand our own. Lesson 14—King Lear (Text, pp. 780-827 ) Objective: To rise above life's tangible trivia and conceits and feel about us the sustaining bonds of universal family love. Lesson 15—Macbeth, Villain or He: ro? (Text, pp. 828-862 ) Objective: To realize the ruin which comes to one who, possessed of basic virtues, yields to the powers of evil. Lesson 16—The Tempest (Text, pp. 1001-1031 ) Objective: To recognize that in The Tempest Shakespeare shares with us a serene view of life; and to perceive that contentment and happiness are dependent upon self-mastery and reconciliation with our fellow men.