[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: In | Author: Knight]
A Oy Memoriam - Lucy Yane Brimhall Knight December 13, 1875 — March 31, 1957 UCY Jane (Jennie) Brimhall Knight, beloved leader among women, and former counselor in the general presidency of Relief Society, died at her home in Edgemont, Provo, Utah, March 31, 1957. She was a daughter of George H. Brimhall, former President of Brigham Young University, and Alsina Wilkins Brimhall. Her husband, J. Will Knight, devoted Church worker and prominent in the industrial development of the West, died in March 1956. 'Two sons and ten brothers and sisters survive Sister Knight. 370 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Interested in civic improvement and in education, Sister Knight supported with her time and means many worthy endeavors. She and her husband were generous patrons of Bigham Young University, and she was honored by B. Y. U. In 1951 as a distinguished alumnus. One of the women's dormitories was named in her honor in 1954. She was a member of the B. Y. U. Emeritus Club. Sister Knight's service in the auxiliary organizations of the Church began in her young womanhood. While living in Canada, she was active in the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and in the Sunday School. She was appointed by President Heber J. Grant in 1921 as First Counselor to President Clarissa S. Williams in the general presidency of Relief Society. She acted in this position with devotion and gracious qualities of inspirational leadership. With the release of Sister Williams in 1928, Sister Knight, while relieved of her responsibilities in the general presidency, continued as a member of the general board until 1939. She was a competent administrator and a judicious and understanding friend of women. Blessed with fluency of expression and a beautiful speaking voice, she represented the general board on many occasions with distinction. She was a delegate to meetings of the National Council of Women and represented Relief Society at two national conferences on social work and attended many other important conventions and meetings. Sister Knight served as matron in the Salt Lake Temple from 1944 to 1947 while her husband served in the temple presidency. She will be long remembered as a lovely and capable woman in whose life the qualities of compassion, intelligence, and understanding were beautifully blended.