[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Lesson | Title: Theology | Author: Doxey]
410 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1957 
.  .  .  Moses,  herding  his  father-in-law*s 
sheep  at  Mount  Horeb,  saw  one  day  a 
flaming  bush,  and  the  flame  did  not  con- 
sume. Being  curious,  he  started  to  walk 
toward  this  flaming  bush,  and  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  came  out  of  the  bush  forbid- 
ding him  to  come  farther,  for,  said  the 
Lord,  ".  ,  .  the  place  whereon  thou  stand- 
est  is  holy  ground"  (Ex.  3:5).  So  I  think 
that  in  every  Latter-day  Saint  home  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  a  flaming,  non-con- 
suming fire,  there  to  light  our  way,  to 
guide  us,  to  protect  us,  and  to  help  us  do 
our  duty,  and  every  inch  of  space  in  the 
home  is  holy  ground.  We  should  never 
forget  it.  Always  remember,  and  always 
live  so  that  we  shall  not  defile  in  any  way 
the  holiness  of  the  home  which  should  be 
ours  (President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Gen- 
eral Conference,  October  1951). 
The  lesson  titles  and  objectives 
for  1957-58,  the  second  year  of  the 
social  science  course,  ''Latter-day 
Saint  Family  Life/'  are  as  follows: 
Lesson  8— The  Family  Is  Forever 
Objective:  To  show  the  influence  of 
gospel  principles  on  the  Latter-day 
Saint  family. 
Lesson  9— Famih'es  Have  Piobhms 
Objective:    To    illustrate    the   nature 
and  extent  of  problems  which  face 
families  of  today. 
Lesson  10— Eternal  Marriage 
Objective:  To  show  the  significance 
of  temples  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  the  advantages  of  temple 
marriage  to  the  family. 
Lesson  11— ''As  the  Twig  Is  Bent" 
Objective:  To  illustrate  how  we  are 
influenced  by  our  environment,  par- 
ticularly by  the  environment  of  the 
home. 
Lesson  12— Famih'es  Have  Members 
Objective:  To  show  how  the  family 
unit  meets  the  needs  of  the  various 
family  members. 
Lesson  13— Love— A  Basic  Ingredi- 
ent 
Objective:  To  show  that  love  is 
essential  for  family  happiness. 
Lesson  14— Families    Have    Neigh- 
hois 
Objective:  To  show  the  importance 
of  wholesome  neighborhood  relation- 
ships on  family  life. 
/  totes  on  the  Authors  of  the  JLessons 
T^HIS  year,  two  writers,  not  pre- 
viously represented  among  the 
authors  of  the  lessons,  are  intro- 
duced to  Relief  Society  members 
and  readers  of  the  Magazine.  They 
are  Elder  Roy  W.  Doxey,  author  of 
the  theology  lessons,  and  Elder  Wil- 
liam F.  Edwards,  author  of  the  work