[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Mother | Author: Rawlins]
Mother Had Seven Girls Jennie Brown Rawlins S I switched on my automatic washer the other day lI couldn't help thinking what a pity it was that Mother hadn't had a few of the modern conveniences when she was rearing her family of seven girls. 'Then, in retrospect, I went back to those old washdays, but contrarily, the picture my mind conjured up was not unpleasant. I could see the washer, with the copper bands and wooden tub, which was Mother's pride and joy after years of scrubbing clothes on the board. 'True, it had had to be turned by hand, but there was always one to turn the washer and one to turn the wringer. We used to sing as we turned, "Swinging, swinging, lulling cares to rest 'neath the old apple tree." (I used to wonder about lulling, and why she cared to rest), or read Ann of Green Gables. Occasionally, Mother, flushed and damp, would emerge from the kitchen carrying pans of steaming clothes or buckets of boiling suds. 'There were two to hang the sweetsmelling clothes on the long lines, rows of whites, fresh and snowy from being boiled in homemade soap and lye-water, and dozens of gaily colored dresses hung in graduated sizes. The next day, there was the big fruit-basket filled to overflowing with tightly rolled and dampened pieces. The stove glowed red, the irons were sizzling hot, and the house was filled with the fragrance of freshly ironed clothes, mixed Page 384 occasionally with the faint scent of scorch, for Mabel usually lingered too long'on a ruffle. We used to take turns at the irons, the older ones doing the more difficult pieces. Lois, the youngest, was permitted to iron only the handkerchiefs and pillow slips—much to her annoyance. It was a mark of honor to be allowed to iron one of Father's white shirts, the collar and cuffs coldstarched to cardboard stiffness; and a lace-trimmed flounce ironed silken smooth was a thing to stir one's pride—almost a work of art. On a brisk Saturday morning what a stir we made—what scrubbing, shining, polishing, sweeping, dusting, and airing. There were two for the upstairs, one for the parlor, one for the kitchen, and one for the screened-in back porch and storeroom. Lois stood on a chair and washed dishes, being very careful with the hand-painted china that mother indulgently permitted her to wash. We rotated, and the one who got the parlor was always considered the lucky one, for she could dust the sea shells, cut glass, and other interesting things that were in the china cupboard. When we got through, how the old house sparkled and seemed to emanate a warm and friendly hominess. 'The beds looked fresh and inviting, with their plump straw ticks and smooth snowy cases; the old stove shone like polished ebony; and the upright piano in the parlor (with Mother and Father's wedding picture set at just the right MOTHER HAD SEVEN GIRLS angle atop it) glowed in all its ornate beauty. Then Father's suit must be pressed until the creases were knife-sharp, and shoes must be shined, and more water heated for baths. In the evening, as we sat in the cozy kitchen with a fire crackling in the stove, and the warm ruddy glow of the lamps shining upon the faces of those we loved, how the old house seemed to gather us close, as if it were enfolding us tenderly in its arms! HEN Sunday — that was a day of days. The whitetop buggy eroaned with its weight of girls in white lawn or voile or embroidery, and Father's two hundred pounds and Mother's diminutive one-hundred-twenty. 'The horses trotted briskly along, the ribbons on our straw sailors fluttered in the breeze, and seemed symbolic of our lightly tethered spirits. After Sunday School the women spread out quilts and placed redchecked cloths upon them, and from well-stocked boxes unloaded roast chicken, potato salad, homecured ham, spice cake, rhubarb pies, and currant jelly. Then, after all had eaten and the tables were cleared, we older girls gathered under the big poplar tree and talked in low, animated tones, and the women sat on the quilts, tended the younger children, visited, and exchanged recipes. The horses, their tugs loosened, grazed contentedly, and the men leaned up against the buggies or squatted on the grass (being very careful of their Sunday trousers) and talked man-talk. Father kept 385 them entertained with stories of his amusing experiences, and though the other men chuckled appreciatively and Father's eyes twinkled and his mustache quivered, he never laughed at his own stories. Once in a while the women would stop to listen, and when the laughter got too loud, Mother would draw her brows close together in disapproval, but all she ever said was, "Now, John, remember it is the Sabbath." Promptly at two the afternoon meeting began, after which, filled with a deep, quiet peace, we made our way home. Father sat in the driver's seat and mused contentedly, letting the lines droop, and the horses sauntered sleepily along. Lois drowsed, her head in Mother's lap, Mabel finger-pressed a pleat over a hole in her new voile dress, looking furtively about to see if anyone else had discovered it; and Mother, her hand resting lightly on Lois' bright head, was happy knowing that here was her family about her, all safe and free from harm. The rolling fields, a deep lush green in the softened light, became to me the rolling waves of some far sea, and the gentle rocking of the whitetop became the rocking of a white-sailed ship. But always and always, instead of it taking me to faraway, glamorous shores, I was returning from those places to bring my treasures home—home, not so much a tall white house set in an apple orchard, as a circle of hands that opened to draw me in. Yes, we have many wonderful modern inventions, but let's not make the mistake of thinking, even fora moment, that happiness is one of them. The Bright Star CHAPTER 4 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan, who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel Tracy in an_ oldfashioned house overlooking San Francisco Bay. Kathy applies to a neighbor, Phineas Fenton, for employment; however, Aunt Em suffers a partial stroke, and Kathy gives up the promised position. Using her aunt's illness as an excuse, Kathy postpones marriage to Jim Parker. A stranger, Marc Hale, asks to rent the China house, and Aunt Em agrees. NCE back in the garden, () Kathy found that the exuberance she'd felt earlier had left her. She sat facing the hills, her back against the rough exterior of the China house. She ought to hike the new tenant of the China house, she told herself. 'The money was a life-saver. But she didn't. For one thing he wasn't young enough to interest her. He looked all of thirty-five. And his highhandedness! No, she did not like the tenant of the China house. As she sat thus brooding, Marta's son, who delivered papers about the countryside, whistled from the road. "Hey, want a paper?" he called. "I've got an extra one today. Mom likes to read the society page." He tossed the paper in Kathy's direction, and was off on his bike again. A daily paper was a luxury the Tracy household could not afford. Kathy picked it up, and began brushing the loose dirt from it. A small headline at the bottom of the folded paper darted out at her. "Art Contest." She read the item carefully, excitement and interest rising in her, "Art Scholarship. One thouPage 386 sand dollars, or a year in a chosen school," it began. Excitedly Kathy ran into the kitchen and thrust the paper at Marta. "Hank left it," she cried. She started dancing around Marta ina circle. "I'm going to enter it. I'm going to enter it and win," she sang. "For goodness sake, sit down," Marta cried, "you're making me dizzy. Eae not having paid any attention to what Kathy was saying, Marta spread the paper out on the kitchen table and started reading aloud. But Kathy wasn't listening. 'The picture she would send in to the contest was already taking shape in her mind. It would be hauntingly life-like, a ship materializing out of the fog, yet no ghost ship. Sturdy as the freighter Grandfather 'Tracy had piloted for the Fenton line. How often Kathy and Aunt Em had stood on the cupola at the top of the house watching—listening for Jon Tracy's signal as his ship rounded into the Golden Gate. The signal that meant happy days ahead until the time came for him to sail out again. She'd take the thousand dollars she would win and give Aunt Em a chance to be free from WOIly. Then another thought intruded on her mind—a few more months to be free herself—how wonderful that would be—she needn't marry Jim just yet. And suddenly she realized that now that Jim had been THE BRIGHT STAR ordained an elder, there was something else that was holding her back. Firmly thought. Kathy smothered _ this No one could be better to me than Jim has been—he's so dependable. We'll be happy together, surely we will, she told herself. If only he weren't so stubborn. THE Pacific Ocean had long been Kathy's friend. Whenever she was troubled she'd walk down to the China house, sit on its miniature veranda, listen to the rush of the waves, and think things out. She knew the ocean's moods and what they foretold. At times calm and blue as a summer sky, other times sullen and brooding under fog Or rain, Or rising In angry green waves, the white caps breaking almost under her feet. But now the China house was occupied by this highhanded young man. Kathy needed solitude desperately. She'd have to begin work on her contest picture immediately. The old-fashioned cupola at the top of the house offered the only haven. She selected materials, found a folding stool, and started the climb up to the third floor of the old house. She placed her stool so that the afternoon sun would warm her back, settled her easel and looked out over the wide blue expanse of the Pacific. Finally her gaze came to rest on the China house. Stretched in his deck chair, the long length of him almost completely covering the small space of the veranda was Mr. Marc Hale, weeklong tenant of the cabin. 387 Kathy had decided it was foolish to go on resenting him, since there was nothing to be gained. He had nodded to her on several occasions, and had made a few inquiries as to their source of fresh eggs, vegetables, and butter. 'This had been her only contact with him. She tried never to think of him. Often, after having been absent for a few hours she had come home to find his laughter coming from Miss Em's room, her aunt pinkcheeked and almost gay looking. Aunt Em had smiled at Kathy's indignation after he'd gone. "He's good for me," she'd managed to say, almost her first complete sentence since her illness. Kathy found herself laughing at Marta's version of these visits. "What's-his-name,' Marta was no good at remembering names—'"the ex-prowler was here. Looking sour as crab apples—till he come out of Miss E: m's room, all smiles, he was then." Or, " "His Happiness' of the China house,' as she had finally dubbed him, "paid us a visit today. Got to laughing with Miss Em. Say, I'd like to know what their secret is." Whatever it was, Kathy had decided, they could keep it, although she was grateful to know that Aunt Em was finding a few moments of pleasure now and then. She shook her head impatiently. This would never do. She turned her stool away from the view of the China house and started to paint. She must have been working for hours, too absorbed in what she was doing to notice that it had begun to grow chilly. She felt a shiver go through her, relaxed her hold on 388 the paintbrush, and looked up just in time to see the fiery red sun begin its plunge into the Pacific. Gracious, she told herself, I must have been sitting here for ages, and I promised Aunt Em fresh peas from the garden for her supper. ATHY hurriedly folded her camp stool and started down the steep stairs that led directly to the garden, the picture in hand. Luckily for her, she thought, "His Happrness" had abandoned his post on the veranda. At least she'd be spared the dubious pleasure of his company. She put her picture down in a safe place and started pulling the plump green pods off the vines. Both hands were full before she realized that she had nothing to put them in. She looked around. "Here, put them in this," a voice behind her said—a voice so bland and soft she failed to recognize it until she looked into the face of Mr. Marc Hale himself. He was holding out a small, shiny saucepan to her. "You look as if you'd never seen me before," he stated, grinning. "I haven't," she blurted out truthfully, and realized for the first time that her imagination had been playing tricks on her. He looked almost boyish and good-natured, with his hair slightly rumpled and a faint brush of sun-tan on his face. "Hmm," he mused, "I wonder." Then went on, "I saw you working on the cupola. Your aunt tells me youre an artist." "That's for the future to decide," Kathy murmured. "I do want to enter this contest, the one for the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 scholarship or the thousand dollars in cash." She so desperately needed someone to talk to she forgot for a moment that this arrogant man was her enemy. "A contest, is it?" he said, and thrust the pan at her. 'There was nothing for Kathy to do but take it with a murmured thanks. He reached down, and without so much as a "by your leave," picked up the picture she had been working on and started studying it. "Not bad—not bad at all," he conceded after a few moments, and Kathy felt her cheeks coloring under this faint praise. "But contests are a disappointment. I understand they're strictly for the professional." "Maybe not," Kathy retorted sharply. "Anyway, I'm going to try it. It's a way of finding out if I'm any good." <A way of making expenses, if I win, she thought. "Atta girl. I lke a person with spunk." He laughed a little, as though ashamed. Of his confession, and Kathy noticed he was looking at her curiously. He must have suddenly realized he was staring, as he turned hastily back to studying the picture. "Say," he exclaimed after a moment, "this might go places in a 'contest at that. You've got a good beginning." Kathy sparkled. "Oh, you really think I might have a chance?" she asked, and realized all of a sudden that she was thoroughly enjoying this conversation. 'Well, I shall certainly try. Td never get any place just sitting around." Hale's laugh was short and mirthless. "Yes, I suppose you're nght. I must say, however, that you've THE BRIGHT STAR chosen a hard role. Artists and writers are a dime a dozen. Better forget contests and get married. Don't tell me that fellow with the scrubbed look about him comes to see auntie." Kathy was angry again.
