[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Day]
Day LMOST always when a newspaper carries the announcement of a Relief Society meeting in our locality, this phrase appears: A nursery will be maintained. 'The nature of the meeting varies: work, theology, social science, or literature, but the nursery announcement ls constant. This helpful nursery service which the organization provides for its members enables young mothers to participate in the wonderful lessons which Relief Society affords. 'They can relax and pass on to a competent and interested person the responsibility of caring for their little ones while they give full attention to the lessons being presented. "A competent and interested person?" I did not know what to call the women who preside over our nurseries until the children themselves solved the problem very well by giving the nursery supervisor the dignified and complimentary title of "teacher." Usually the Junior Sunday School and the Primary nursery classes have been the first to teach the children reverence and group participation, but often the first contact a child has with a Church organization is in the Relief Society nursery. Besides teaching reverence, nurseries introduce the children to the idea of sharing and getting along with others, and participating in games and other group activities. Page 378 A box of toys is usually provided by the organization, but good nursery teachers bring additional material which will interest and amuse the children as well as instruct them. Toddlers are satisfied with toys, but the older children get tired of playing with toys. 'They love to have supervised creative activities, such as cutting and pasting pictures from catalogues and magazines in selfmade scratch paper booklets, and painting pictures torn from coloring books; they enjoy writing on the classroom blackboards and _ placing pictures on flannel boards; they think it is fun to make chains from colored paper; they like to make posters; and they enjoy modeling clay. With most of these activities the supervisor needs four eyes and six hands, because paste, modeling clay, and crayons taste good to toddlers, and even blunt pointed scissors can be hazardous. The answer is not to deprive the older children of the pleasure these creative pastimes afford, but to safeguard the toddlers from harm. A table for the older children is the best answer, but a chair partition placed across the center of the room serves very well, and the chairs may be used as tables when the older children kneel by them. I Finger plays and action songs amuse very young boys and girls as well as older children. Mothers are often amazed when toddlers go through the motions of "Heads and A NURSERY WILL BE MAINTAINED shoulders, knees and toes." Programs are always fun, especially if the teacher has a fund of nursery thymes to help the backward children so that all can participate. 'Television shows can be staged with an ordinary box without the bottom and top. Oddly enough, the children never refer to the room they occupy as the "Nursery." It, too, is Relief Society. "Teacher," they say, "I had to stay home from Relief Society last week because my little brother was sick and mother had to take care of him." Have you ever wondered how many times the children bring the mothers to Relief Society where a good nursery is provided? You might be surprised. Last month our local paper ran a full page spread of pictured activities in which Relief Society sisters were shown carrying out various projects: quilting, preparing for bazaars, presenting lessons and— guess what! One ward in our stake chose to feature a nursery full of 379 children, with a supervisor as the only grownup shown. The attendance of children in that ward is usually more than twenty-five for an ordinary meeting, and as many as seventy for special affairs, such as the opening social. About a year ago the same ward asked one of the supervisors to prepare and read an original poem for the mothers as part of a program. She said: GRANDMOTHER Pro TEM The little ones entrusted to my care I substitute for children of my own; And see in fairy forms and gleaming hair Images of my offspring long since grown. I thrill when tiny hands slip into mine, (Not questioning my scant ability ); But say, with happy smile and eyes that shine, "Please, teacher, come and write a duck for me." Sometimes, with books we set our fancies free, Or sing, or build a block tower very high; And all of us are happy, for you see I seem to feel a grandchild standing by. I treasure these wee ones you've loaned to me. Be sure that I shall treat them tenderly.