[Vol44 | June 1957 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Taylor]
Such happiness is not dependent upon money and material possessions. Rather, it comes from the virtues of service, kindness, loyalty, trust, and love. Certainly, you and I, the children of such fathers, on this Father's Day and always, should honor them and rise up and call them blessed. ~>- Speak Softly Ada Marie Patten Guide your child gently, With tenderness sustain him, Assuaging all his fears. Speak to him softly, Hush not the heavenly cadence Still ringing in his ears. Oie Sianemen's Cup Beatrice K. Ekman On the lush, green valley and wooded hills, Healing warmth of the early summer spills, And the air is stirred by the drone of bees And the call of birds from the orchard trees. Beside the cool stream in the willow-shade, Where flickering shadows of sun are laid, The white sheep with their young lambs lie at rest And a tranquil quiet is manifest. Beyond the wild hedge of the narrow lane A gentle breeze weaves through the fields of grain, Where the noonday sun climbs up the sky A feather-plumed cloud drifts slowly by. In the meadow pasture the clear creek flows Through the buttercup patches and clumps of wild rose; Here the magic enchantment that summer brings Fills my cup to the brim when a meadow lark sings. Wealtha S. Mendenhall Appointed to General (Board of Reliof Society W. Aird McDonald Associate, Church Building Program EALTHA Spafford Mendenhall of the Ensign Stake, and formerly from Stockton, California, was appointed to the general board of Relief Society, March 28, 1957. She was born in Springville, Utah, to Alma H. And Mary Clyde Spafford. She was married to Wendell Bird Mendenhall (now Chairman of the Church Building Committee), in the Salt Lake Temple, September 30, 1927. Her early education was received in Springville, where she graduated from high school in June previous to her marriage. 'They have two sons, Paul W. Of Honolulu, and Robert L., a student at B. Y. U., and three grandchildren. Elder Mendenhall and both sons have filled missions for the Church in New Zealand. Mrs. Mendenhall has just returned from accompanying Elder Mendenhall on a trip to the South Pacific for the Church. She was present when Elder Hugh B. Brown, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, laid the cornerstone for the New Zealand 'Temple, returning home only two days before her new appointment. The new board member is well qualified by temperament and training for her new position.

She has served energetically and efficiently in almost every stake and ward position of Relief Society. She served in the ward presidency in Stockton, 1939-1941, then as ward president Page 352 WEALTHA S. MENDENHALL for three years. She served as the social science class leader on the Sacramento Relief Society stake board for two years and as visiting teacher message leader for two years. When the stake was divided and San Joaquin Stake was organized in 1948, Sister Mendenhall was called as the social science class leader on the new stake board. Later, she served for three years as stake Magazine representative. She was a visiting teacher in Stockton Ward from 1939 until she moved to Salt Lake City in May 1956. Besides her Relief Society work, she was a tireless and dependable worker in all activities of her ward. In the exacting role of wife of a bishop and stake WEALTHA S. MENDENHALL president, she was a charming and gracious hostess, and her home became the "hospitality center' of the stake. Visitors to their lovely home in Stockton will long remember those joyous and festive occasions. Before her Relief Society service, Sister Mendenhall was active in Primary and Sunday School in Provo, Ogden, and Logan, while Elder Mendenhall was finishing his schooling, after his return from his mission. In 1952-3 the Mendenhalls visited 353 their son Paul in New Zealand, and then proceeded on around the world, touring India, Palestine, Italy, France, and England. 'They returned to the South Pacific and made preparations for and accompanied President and Sister McKay on their tour of the islands in 1955. A life devoted to Church service has ably fitted Sister Mendenhall for her new position of responsibility which she will fill with grace and humility. Another June Dorothy J. Roberts Today another June will come For new eyes to behold Where sweet-briars tumble down the fence In tides of stamened gold.