	A DREAM AND INCIDENT.

	My parents lived at Nauvoo and that was
my home. The incident I am about to re-
late occurred in the year 1846, just at the
time the Saints were moving out of Nau-
voo, and leaving their beautiful homes, and
the magnificent temple which they had
erected, at a great sacrifice, to the God they
worshipped, and in which they had hoped
and expected to administer for their dead

[Column 2]

friends, and receive the fulness of blessings.
On the night of the 7th of February, I re-
tired to rest early, and dreamed that I must
go to the Temple; I awoke in the night
and thought over my dream, went to sleep
and dreamed the same thing over again. I
arose in the morning and went about my
duties; something seemed to tell me that I
must go down to the Temple that day; the
impression was very strong—I felt as if im-
pelled by some hidden power. Excuse for
going, I had none; I told my dream and
feelings to my mother; she said I could go
down while the ground was frozen, but
thought I would have a bad time getting
home through the mud in the afternoon,
for we lived one mile east of the Temple,
and that was quite a long walk for me; but
I resolved to go, and started on my way. I
wondered to myself what I was going there
for, or what excuse I could make to those
whom I might meet for my appearance
there at such an inopportune time. At last
I remembered that Brother Bolton and his
wife were staying there, that they had
promised to go over the Temple and out on
the roof with me, and I thought this ex-
cuse enough. When I got there Bro. Bol-
ton was very busy and said I would have
to wait a while. The sisters were there
that day washing and cleaning up the house,
preparatory to leaving it; I went in where
they were washing, and conversed with
several acquaintances.
	Sister Bolton and I concluded to go up
into the steeple; walked around the dome
outside, wrote my name in several places,
among the thousands that were already
there, came down where Bro. Bolton was
still busy and somewhat excited, for the
news had just been received that the ferry
boat loaded with our brethren and sisters
had sunk while crossing the Mississippi
River. I then went out on the roof alone,
walked around there, viewed the city and
all its surroundings, until I was tired and
thought it was about time for me to be
going home. I was sitting down musing
and observing, when all at once I noticed a
little blue streak like smoke coming out
from under the shingles close to where I
sat. It frightened me; I arose in great
haste and ran to tell Bro. Bolton, but in a
second I thought perhaps it was only the
steam from the hot water where the sisters
were at work, then I comprehended that
could not be; but I would not needlessly
alarm any one, so I returned and sat down
again to discover the reality. The Temple
was on fire and no mistake. I hastened
down and told Bro. Bolton; he only laughed,
said such a thing was impossible, and would
not even go and see, until his wife went
and saw the smoke curling out in great cir-
cles; when she told him he started in a
hurry, and gave the alarm to some of the
brethren who were at work in the base-
ment. The bell was rung, which startled
the whole city; the scene that followed
beggars description. I did not have pres-
ence of mind enough to get out of the
house before the way was completely
hedged up, and I was obliged to stay there.
The brethren formed in two lines up the
great winding stairs, one to pass the buck-
ets of water up, the other to carry the
empty ones down. In the meantime a mob
had collected outside the door, to keep the
water from going in; the police had to come
to the aid of those engaged in extinguish-
ing the flames, before they could disperse
them. In the midst of this confusion, I
noticed an oldish woman, rather small in
stature, dressed in dark red clothes, run-
ning here and there wringing her hands
and at last disappearing no one knew where;


she was a stranger to all in the house, no
one could tell anything about her.
	Since I have been living in Utah I met
with Bro. Bolton; we were talking about 
that fearful circumstance, and he said he
could always see, in fancy, that woman;
she was always before his eyes, whenever
he thought of her; but he had never found
out who she was, where she came from, or 
why she was there.
	The fire, which was really alarming, was 
at length extinguished, the Temple saved,
and I had learned the meaning of my
dream. All this took place many years ago,
still the recollection is as bright and fresh
as if it had happened only yesterday.
	MATILDA P. KILLIAN.
Salem, Utah Co., May 23, 1877.


