		PATRIARCHAL MARRIAGE.

	Knowing that the order of marriage exist-
ing here, furnishes one of the popular subjects
of journalistic writers, and having read some
of these articles written by persons  unacquain-
ted with the subject, we propose to offer a few
ideas as briefly as possible, believing it is con-
sistent for woman's voice to be heard in her
own defense.
	Celestial Marriage, as the Latter-day Saints
term it, means something more than the sim-
ple condition of husband and wife, as that rela-
tion is understood by the modern world; it em-
braces in its covenant the ties of endless asso-
ciation, and eternal progression; this is what
is comprehended by those who enter into this
holy order of matrimony.
	With Mormon women it is not the idea of
many wives which so horrifies the world, but
it is the goal to be attained, the promise at-
tached to the covenant, which reaches far
away into the countless ages of progression,
and stretches backward to the redemption of
the dead, who passed away without the saving
ordinances. This is the dispensation, in which
the hearts of the fathers are to be turned to the
children, and the hearts of the children to the
fathers. These are the ambitions which stim-
ulate the saints to endure hardships, ignominy
and the world's disgrace. The world judges
Mormon women from their own standpoint,
and had they no more laudable ambition than
the world have, they would be just as wretched
as they imagine them to be; but they have a
greater aim in view, and live for a higher pur-
pose; and in order to rise above all things it
is necessary to descend beneath all things.
	The world does not understand the Mormon
Sisters; they stand as a race unprecedented in
history; an enigma to their contemporaries;
but their history is being written imperishably
in their works; they have not only assisted in
pioneering and founding a new territory in a
desert land, but in ushering in a new social
and religious dispensation. They have main-
tained their integrity and demonstrated their
sincerity, heroically, yet unassumingly, by
sustaining practically the principles of plural
marriage. All who advance new light upon
any subject are sure to encounter opposition
from the masses; it is one of the fixed laws of
that old inveterate tyrant CUSTOM; and more
especially is this the case, when traditions and
conventionalities are swept away, and a new
phase of things presented, without permission
of the "powers that be." Mormon women
have borne much for their religion; they know
in what estimation the world regards them;
they also know that God has spoken from
heaven, and true to the divinity of their na-
ture, they "stoop to conquer."
	Some of those noble few who first entered

[Column 2]
into these sacred marriage covenants, were wo-
men of strong individuality; women who held
themselves too sacred to descend to the level 
of marriage such as exists in modern society;
women of such axalted ideas of virtue and 
chastity, that they demanded the same purity 
of life from the opposite sex. In fact they
were of that strong-minded Puritanical race of
New Englanders, who inherited independence
of character sufficient to the emergency. They 
were taught the principle of patriarchal mar-
riage and they comprehend it in its fullest
and highest sense, as it appealed to the higher 
moral and spiritual nature; and on these
grounds they accepted its conditions, knowing
that it would eventually, more than repay the
sacrifice of the world's good opinion, if they 
could but suffer and be strong.
	We do not believe in destroying any of the
properties of our God given natures; but in
disciplining and cultivating all the holy affec-
tions, and emotions which will prepare us for 
the society of angels, and to dwell with celes-
tial beings. God gave to woman the blessing 
of maternity, and an abundant capacity for
love: not that she should be forever barren; not
that she should sacrifice her womanly instincts
for unholy purposes, but for the fuller perfect-
ing of herself, and her love through the powers
of motherhood.
	Plural marriage elevates woman, by develop-
ing more perfectly the sentiments of true love,
than any other marital relation, for its aim
and bearing is continually toward a higher 
life; and it enjoins the keeping of a higher
code of laws. None but pure-minded and high-
souled woman can sufficiently comprehend 
the design of these covenants, to endure the 
trials and temptations which are incident to a 
higher spiritual development. The actual ex-
isting circumstances which are consequent up-
on the relationships and obligations of plural
marriage expand the soul, and clothe it with
the Christian graces of character which make
life beautiful and honorable; patience, long-
suffering, gentleness, forbearance, meekness
and above all that charity which helps one to
love her neighbor as herself. these virtues
must be practical in the lives of those who ful-
fill the responsibilities which celestial mar-
riage implies. It does not narrow, but widens
woman's field for usefulness.
	The very genius and spirit of the age is in
keeping with the cry of woman for recogni-
tion of her position by the side of man. What 
is it purport? It is the consciousness in wo-
man everywhere, if even a latent spark of her
inherent divinity lingers, that the hour is has-
tening when the curse will be removed, "Thy 
desire has be to thy husband and he shall 
rule over thee." What is the burden of this 
cry, and what are "the signs of the times?"
"Behold the bridegroom cometh go ye out to
meet him!" Mormon women are practically
solving the questions which will result in a 
more complete purity of life.
			[handwritten] E. B. Wells.


[Column 1]
