SILK MANUFACTURE.

	In view of the growing interest in this
industry in Utah, the following sensible
article from the August number of the
"American Agriculturist," may prove pro-
fitable to some of our readers—
	In 1860 the production of silk in Amer-
ica was valued at two million dollars. In
1876 the value of the silk made in this
country was not less than twenty-five mil-
lion dollars. No branch of manufacturing
industry has advanced more rapidly than
this, and none promises to grow more stead-
ily in the future. But it is worthy of note
that the raw material for this manufacture
is wholly imported, or the exception is so
trifling that it need not be taken into ac-
count. At the same time no country in the
world possesses a finer climate and soil for
the rearing of the silk worm, and the cul-
tivation of the trees upon the leaves of
which it feeds.
	Unfortunately, the light, easy, agreeable
industry of breeding and rearing the worms
and reeling the fibre from the cocoons, is
not considered as being worthy the notice
of farmers, or farmer's families. Yet the
day of small things has not wholly passed
away, and indications seem to point to a
necessary return to the smaller industries
of the family, which have been abandoned
or neglected during the flourishing times
of the past few years. Everything is tend-
ing towards the exercise of economy in
small as well as great things, and an indus-
try which may profitably employ the chil-
dren on the farm, is not to be overlooked or
despised. The exhibition of silkworms
and their cocoons at the Centennial, did
much to inform the public as to the charac-
ter of this employment. The exhibit of
Mr. Crozier, of Silkville, Kansas, was very
interesting in this way, and it is to be
hoped may be effective in turning the at-
tention of farmers' wives who have more
than usual leisure, to the advantage of
learning the methods of managing the
worms and of teaching their daughters.
The reeling of the silk is somewhat diffi-
cult, but the machine needed for it is very
simple, and can be worked by a little girl.
	Several million dollars a year might be
distributed among farmers' families, that
are now sent abroad for the purchase of raw
silk, if only the attention of those who are
able to do this easy work were effectively
turned to it. In California, the raising of
silkworms's eggs is an important industry,
but in this the silk is sacrificed, or at most,
the cocoons from which the moth or parent
insect has escaped, have a very low value
for carding purposes.


