		ENTERPRISE, MORGAN Co.,
						July 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Enterprise having become a ward in the
organization of the Morgan County Stake
of Zion, the ladies of this place, who have
heretofore formed a part of the Peterson
Relief Society, under the presidency of
Mrs. Ann Peterson, met on Sunday eve-
ning, July 22d, according to appointment
and direction of the Bishop, J. K. Hall,

[Column 2]
and organized the Enterprise Ward Relief
Society. Mrs. Margaret Green, being
unanimously voted in as president, chose
for her counselors Mrs. Emma Croft and
Mrs. Mary Hall. The organization was
completed with a Secretary, Treasurer and
a corps of Teachers. The Bishop and his
counselors then gave much good instruc-
tion, explaining the object of Relief Socie-
ties, and the manner and spirit in which
the meetings should be conducted.
	Hoping that God will bless our Society
and labors, and the labors of all who are
working for the advancement of truth and
righteousness upon the earth; and that the
EXPONENT may continue to be a welcome
visitor to our meetings, realizing that we
have derived much lasting good from its
pages, we subscribe ourselves,
	Your sisters in the covenant of peace.
		MARGARET GREEN, President,
				EMMA CROFT, Secretary.

				BEAVER, July 10th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It has been some time since I wrote you,
although my heart is with my good sisters
in this Latter-day work, yet my means are
limited. I feel that myself and all that I 
possess is on the altar. I was down at St.
George to the April Conference, and en-
joyed it very much. My husband and my-
self were down since, and commenced the
work for our dead. My heart is filled to
overflowing when I contemplate the great
plan of redemption, and the great privi-
leges we have that no other people have
ever had. The saints are being endowed
with keys and powers in the temple of the
Lord, and the evil one is raging outside,
knowing his time is short. I felt as though
I would like to live there. The Kingdom
of God is rolling, and the puny arm of man
cannot stop it. Do the Latter-day Saints
realize the responsibilities resting upon
them, and the days in which we are living?
We have no time to trifle away.
	Our Relief Society meets regularly and a
good spirit generally prevails. We are in-
tending to build a rock granary and store
for home products, and do all we can for
the Sanpete Temple. The weather is very
warm here, and there is a great deal of
sickness among children.
	Maria Louise, daughter of Amasa Lyman
and formerly wife of Elder Wm. Clayton,
died here a few days ago. When she was
brought to death's door, I was told she be-
gan to ask what chance there was for her,
after pursuing the course she had taken.
	I remain your sister in the covenant,
