UNSCRIPTURAL.

	The following is an extract from a ser-
mon recently delivered in the Nineteenth
St. Methodist Episcopal Church, Philadel-
phia, by the pastor, Rev. T. M. Griffith:—
	We are profoundly impressed with the 
belief that Woman is not yet entirely liber-
ated from the bondage and oppression
which the selfish authority of Man, during
the dark ages, has imposed upon her. She
is not yet where the enlightened conscience
of the nineteenth century rightfully places
her. To say that man has the power and
ought to keep it, is the same kind of reas-
oning as is employed in the dominions of
the Sultan whose seraglios adorn the shores
of the Bosphorus. The same self-compla-
cent way of looking at things is employed
by the tyrant on his throne and the master
among his slaves. It belongs to Paganism
and Mohammedanism, but not to Chris-
tianity. The seed of the woman has come
to crush the serpent of opposition, the ser-
pent of injustice, and all other serpents
that bear the poison of sin in their hissing
heads.
	Many of the laws on the statute books of
the several States deny to a woman, in cer-
tain cases, the control of her own property,
or even her own hard-earned gains. More
than this, that very motherhood which the 
guardians of Man's prerogatives declare to 
be so sacred is invaded and outraged by
laws which rob the mother of her children.
Women's wages are so pitiably poor and 
mean that many are almost driven to star-
vation or the street, and that too because 
they are crowded into a few avenues of
employment and crowded out of others by
men, or deterred from entering them by
the frowns of society. Who gave us the
right, as men, to say to women, "There are
certain things you shall not do, even to
make an honest living!" What right, hu-
man or divine, have we to stand, like senti-
nels with pointed bayonets, at the polls, or 
any other of the gates of privilege and pow-
er, and say to one-half the inhabitants of 
the land, "Hither you must not come?"
	But, above all, what right have we to 
command Woman to keep quiet and retired,
to be shrinking and timid, to shut herself
up in her home, and hide her talent away
in a napkin? None, none whatever! The
Christianity for the times demands that all
the lovers of humanity, of both sexes,
should be employed for the world's re-
demption. Two-thirds of our church mem-
bers are women. In God's name, and for
His dear sake, as well as for the love of 
perishing souls, let us bring up this mighty
reserve army, and invite every woman to
a post of duty.

[Column 2]

	It is time to stop jesting at "Woman's
tongue," and time to consider whether that
tongue cannot speak the words of gospel
truth better than the stammering tongues
which some of us carry in our own heads.
We can remember how, when we were
children, we loved to listen to our mothers
when they talked to us. We all love to 
hear the tender voice of sister or sweet-
heart or wife; and we recognize the pecu-
liar charm of a woman's conversation.
Then let these tongues and these charms be
consecrated to the Lord! Let them be
given to Jesus! The Lord hath need of 
them, make way for them! Clear the track;
and let the beautiful feet of the Lord's
great company of waiting handmaids run
with the tidings of salvation to the very
ends of the earth.


