	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Association met at the Firemen's Hall
Friday Aug. 3, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young said she had found a home mar-
ket for all the reeled silk we could make. Our
numbers were increasing every year and trees
were being planted all over the Territory
wherever the climate would permit them to


[Column 1]
grow. At the next meeting we would be pre-
pared to buy the cocoons that had been raised
this year, and those who wished to have them
reeled on shares could do so.
	Mr. P. A. Schettler said we had no reason to
feel discouraged; advised those raising worms,
to have trees as near the cocoonery as possible
and thus avoid a great amount of labor. He
had very good success this year, notwithstand-
ing that the grasshoppers took all the leaves
off his trees. He had raised sixty-four ounces
of eggs of the Tuscan species. He had re-
ceived a communication from Mr. Newman,
silk-raiser of California, asking for eggs and
cocoons. He advised those raising seed to pick
out the finest cocoons, so as to establish a good
reputation for good eggs. They were worth
from four to five dollars an ounce.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne was well pleased with the
success that had been attained. Quite an in-
terest was being taken in the 14th Ward. Mrs.
Cummings had raised thirty pounds of fine
cocoons. The trees that had been planted out
would bring forth good fruit another year.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
September, at 3 p. m.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.
	"The Women of Mormondom" is the title of
a new work just out from the pen of E. W.
Tullidge, the author of the "Life of Brigham
Young or Utah and Her Founders," and other
creditable writings, as well as of several plays
which have been placed upon the boards here
and in other cities. This writer is original in
his style of composition and as Mormon Wo-
men form an entirely new subject, the writer
has an abundant field for the expression of his
originality. He has written some most glow-
ing and inspirational chapters on the themes of
Mormonism and Woman. Mr. Tullidge in his
characteristically happy and appropriate style
has addressed the preface of this work to the
Women of America:
	"Long enough, O women of America, have
your Mormon sisters been blasphemed! From
the day that they in the name and fear of
the Lord their God undertook to build up Zion,
they have been persecuted for righteousness
sake; 'A people scattered and peeled from the
beginning.'
	The record of their lives is now sent unto
you, that you may have an opportunity to
judge them in the spirit of righteousness. So
shall you be judged by Him whom they have
honored, whose glory they have sought, and
whose name they have magnified."
	A most striking preface, and one which be-
speaks the tact of the author. The book
scarcely needs the benefit of a Review for it
recommends itself more forcibly than it is pos-
sible for any writer to do in a newspaper para-
graph.
	Mr. Tullidge has so arranged the Table of
Contents that one can easily find whatever
they wish; the book contains 552 pages divided
into 60 chapters. This work is a record of in-
teresting incidents and episodes in the lives of
Mormon women from the earliest days of the
organization of the church. The author in
his closing chapter has thrown out some beau-
tifully suggestive and convincing ideas that
will almost force the reader to accept the Mor-
mon view of the subject. He reasons thus, "A
certain manifest destiny has made the marriage
problem the supreme of Mormonism. How
suggestive in this view is the fact that Con-
gress, by special legislation, has made polyg-
amy the very alpha and omega of the Mor-
mon problem. The Mormon women, there-
fore must perforce of circumstances, by their
faith and action greatly influence the future
destiny of Mormonism.

[Column 2]
	If it was Brigham Young who gave to them
that unparalleled power, no matter what should
be declared by the enemy as his motive, then
has he done more for woman than any man
living. But Mormon apostles and representa-
tives executed this grand charter of woman's
rights; and George Q. Cannon's noble declara-
tion at the time—that the charter of female
suffrage ought to be extended to the entire
republic—is deserving the acclamations of the
women of America.
	There is a providence in the very attitude of
Mormon women. The prophesy is distinctly
pronounced in the whole history of their lives,
that they shall be apostolic to the age. A new
apostleship is ever innovative. The Mormon
women have established an astounding inno-
vation in polygamy. It has been infinitely
offensive. So much the better[-] for it has made
a great noise in the world and has shaken the
old and rotten institutions of Christendom.
That shaking was not only inevitable, but nec-
essary, before a new civillization."


