		FILLMORE CITY, Aug. 7th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	With pleasure I send you a report of our
second Annual Fair, held on the 24th of
July, 1877, by the Ladies of Fillmore,
which added great interest to the pleasures
of that memorable day, and all who partici-
pated in the day's recreation expressed en-
tire satisfaction with the articles on exhibi-
tion, as they were almost exclusively home
manufacture, and the handiwork of the la-
dies of the Relief Society—carpets, quilts,
rugs, knitting, netting, needlework of all
kinds; fancy articles, such as wax, zephyr
and hair flowers; bead work, mats, baskets,
and indeed almost all articles, both useful
and ornamental, were tastefully arranged
through the different apartments of the
State House, which was profusely decora-
ted with flowers and evergreens.
	The lively strains of music, and the
merry voice of song were heard at inter-
vals during the day, while the constant de-
mand for refreshments, so courteously
served by the ladies, did credit to that de-
partment. Everything passed off harmo-
niously, each countenance stamped with an
air of freedom, coinciding with the memo-
ries of the day.
	The object of the Fair was to exhibit be-
fore the young, such articles of home in-
dustry, as will lead to the cultivation of
taste and refinement, and for the more ex-
tensive promotion of home-manufacture,
which we are so urgently requested to sus-
tain; also to procure means for the storing
of grain, and for establishing sericulture
more permanently, as well as to raise funds
for distributing necessaries to those needing
assistance.
	Financially and satisfactorily our humble
Fair proved a complete success, as will
show by a profit realized of $160, (one hun-
dred and sixty dollars,) to add to our treas-
ury. The sisters in this branch of the Re-
lief Society are energetic and willing to
respond to the various duties devolving
upon them, and as we now have the privi-
lege of renewing our covenants, feel to act
with unceasing diligence in the great work
we have espoused.
								D. K.


"A teacher asked his class to explain the
difference between "dear" and "deer."
One bright little fellow exclaimed, "One is
a biped the other is a quadruped."


