A FEW IDEAS.

	T﻿he newspapers and journals throughout the
country now abound with dreadful accounts of
strikes, and all the horrors attending them.
In my opinion this is only the beginning of
sorrows. This nation must drink of the cup
they have filled to overflowing, drink it to the
dregs. Ye have wrought us wrong, ye have
brought us woe, shall ye triumph much lon-
ger? We answer, no!
	It seems the governments are powerless to
bring order out of chaos, when will it all end?
When each one is willing to love his neighbor
as himself! Is there a remedy? Yes! When
man is willing that God shall rule on the earth.
What are the causes that have led to this state
of things? "Mans inhumanity to man!"
Those who have been blest with intellect and
energy, have, in many instances used those
gifts to trample down their less fortunate
brethren. They have vaunted their education
and despised those who were not book-learned;
they have trod them under foot, or made them
their stepping-stone to money, place and pow-
er, and when they have attained that which
they sought for, they cast them away as worth-
less.
	Will these Railway Kings who are now in-
volved in the striking, even look on their
employees, would they sit at the same table
with them? No! Yet they are the ones who
fill their purses, they furnish the bone and
sinew, have built their railroads and given in-
to their hands the fat of the land, and what is
the workingmen's reward? Reduced wages
until they starve, while they look on and see
their employers enjoying every luxury that a
pampered appetite can crave and the famished
wolf must look on contented with his lot. How
long can this state of things last? From the
highest to the lowest it seems like a struggle
to prey on one another's property. Those who
have been in power have shown the uneduca-
ted what position and influence of wealth can
do. It can rob a whole nation of honest work-
ers, shamelessly ride over every obstacle to fill
some of the highest places in the nation, and
when rascality is discovered enables the perpe-
trators to slip through the hands of justice un-
punished. The honest laborers cannot do as
the influential class can, so they use such wea-
pons as they possess, then they take fearful
vengeance on their oppressors; they are like
an unchained tiger knowing neither friend
nor foe, all are alike to them, they are unreas-
oning, fearless alike of heaven or hell.


It has been declared that education and en-
lightenment would save the world, and bring
the reign of peace. Who have been the ones
to inaugurate this awful state of things in
these once United States? It has been such
polished men as Belknap and Boss Tweed who
with refining insolence have robbed the na-
tion.
	Last conference President Young said they
would have blood enough before they got 
through, and his words seem coming to pass
already.
	Let us be thankful we are here in Utah and 
strive to be faithful to the end.
								MARY.
	Grantsville July 30, 1877.


