			HOME AFFAIRS.

	A WOMAN'S VICTORY.—Miss Ida Cook has
been elected Superintendent of District
Schools for Cache County.
	ELDER A. M. MUSSER requests us to cor-
rect an unintentional error of ours in our last
issue respecting the printing of pamphlets etc.
Elders Leonard Pickel, J. W. Glass and W. C.
Staines most liberally aided in their publica-
tion. He would be very sorry to have them
think their patronage was so soon forgotten.
	THE AUGUST number of the Utah Musical
Times contains much that is pleasing. New

[Column 2]
music by Prof. Careless set to the hymn of
invocation "O my Father," also a Sabbath
Hymn, and "I saw a mighty angel fly." The
Musical, Dramatic and Editorial Notes are
specially interesting. It is adapted to the cul-
ture of music among the young people for
whose benefit it is intended.

	THE UTAH Musical Bouquet is another mu-
sical publication by Daynes and Son whose tal-
ent for music and its cultivation is so widely
known. This number contains some beautiful
pieces, "The Spirit of God" one of the first
Mormon hymns, set to music. A new song
"The Pioneers," words by Elder John Nichol-
son and music by Daynes and Son.

	CITIZENS of Salt Lake seem drifting into the
habits of other cities in regard to summer re-
sorts. Several have built country houses for
summer use in healthful localities or near
springs considered beneficial. Others camp out
in the canyons or seek lodgings at the various
local hotels which have been built in these
mountain passes for the accommodation of
travelers.

	THE SALT Lake Theatre has been opened
the past week and some very celebrated plays
have been performed. Miss Rose Eytinge a
pleasing and popular actress has been perform-
ing "Rose Michel," "Miss Sarah Moulton"
and "Lady Macbeth," each of these characters
being represented in a natural and graceful
style. Miss Eytinge is one of Salt Lake's fav-
orites, we believe her engagement here for 
present is closed.

	THE LADIES EXCURSION to Lake Point Thurs-
day. Aug. 9, was a very enjoyable affair. The
day was fine, the lake was sufficiently calm
and placid and the bathing was truly delight-
ful. Notwithstanding the party was a very
large one, the enjoyment was not lessened, for
all seemed determined to enjoy it to the ut-
most. The bowery was very pleasant and com-
modious; and those who wished could obtain
refreshments at the hotel or on the steamer
General Garfield. Much credit is due to the
ladies' committee who had charge of the excur-
sion, for their successful tact and management.
These baths are wonderfully exhilarating, and
delicate persons or invalids should avail them-
selves of the present cheap railroad fares.

	THE "WOMAN'S Commission House" has
been undergoing some change in the arrange-
ment of goods etc., all of which it is expected
will be an advantage to the institution. They
have divided the store in the centre and all
the assortment of goods belonging to the store
previously, is on the south side of the large and
spacious room, and the other side is filled with
goods from Provo woolen factory, for whole-
sale and retail, which will probably bring
many customers to the establishment who will
patronize the Woman's Store by purchasing
from its variety stock. This store has been es-
tablished and sustained for the sake of encour-
aging home-industries and manufactures, an
object which should call for the special atten-
tion of all who desire the future welfare of
Zion. It is to be hoped the sisters will not let
their interest in this institution flag, but use
every effort possible to make it a complete suc-
cess.

