NOTES AND NEWS.

	DR. SCHLIEMANN; the celebrated explor-
er of Trojan and Greek mines, is expected
to visit America.

	AN EXPEDITION, consisting of Lieut.
Wood, U. S. Army, and Prof. Taylor of the
University of Chicago, with some assist-
ants, has gone to Alaska, to ascertain the
height of Mt. Elias.

	A STATUE of King Alfred the Great was
unveiled at Wantage, England, on Satur-
day, July 31st, by the Prince of Wales. It
is sculptured in marble, and was executed
by Count Gleichen, the queen's cousin, at a
cost of about $10,000. Wantage is the place
where King Alfred was born.

	IT SEEMS to be conceded, that among the 
members of Parliament most likely to be-
come future Premiers of the British gov-
ernment, is Mr. Chamberlain who, having
accumulated a fortune in manufactures, is
now devoting his fine abilities to public af-
fairs. Just now the most rising member of
the House of Commons is Mr. Leonard
Courtney, one of the ablest and most schol-
arly of the leader-writers on the London
"Times." Both Mr. Chamberlain and Mr.
Courtney have distinguished themselves by
their advocacy of the Woman Suffrage Bill,
which seems to be rapidly gaining strength
in England.—Ex.

	The laboratories for women at the Insti-
tute of Technology are well worth the at-
tention of those who are interested in the
higher education of women. They were
established about six months ago, at the re-
quest and with the assistance of the Wo-
man's Education Association, and are de-
signed "to afford facilities for the advanced
study of Chemical Analysis, Mineralogy,
and Chemistry, as related to Vegetable and
Animal Physiology and to the Industrial
Arts." Any subject may be studied sepa-
rately; there are no classes, each pupil
working by herself under the immediate
and practical instruction of Prof. John M.
Ordway or of Mrs. Richards. The micro-
scopic work, and physiological chemistry,
seem especially adapted to women, and
offer honorable employment to those who
are skilled.—"Boston Correspondent Wor-
cester Spy."


