				JOANNAH C. MANNING


THE cardinal mistake which irrational ad-
vocates of women's rights have made is in
libeling their actual intention by an appar-
ent pretense that woman in the profess-
ions is to be something less of an woman
and a little more of a man. The women
who have successfully entered the profess-
ions of law, medicine and journalism, and
those who, like Mrs. Livermore, carry a
finer culture than many men into the pul-
pit, are the best answers to the charge so
flippantly made that a woman ceases to be
feminine when she turns her brain to ac-
count in a practical, honorable and capable
way. The vulgar absurdity that she is
"womanly" who darns stockings, scrubs
floors, and carries garbage; and she is "wo-
manly who devotes herself to gossip, fash-
ion, dissipation and vice; while she is not
"womanly" who becomes a physician, a
a lawyer, a journalist, a minister, lurks
only in heads too stupid to understand
their own better instincts, or too base
to value in woman that which is dearest to
her in man, and most esteemed in her own
eyes—the power to win and to keep man's
love through his respect for her and her re-
spect for herself. There is no lasting love
without respect; and, looking over the face
of society, who are the happiest mates?
Whose are the attractive homes? What
class of women make, by universal consent,
the tenderest and most faithful wives, the
devoted and efficient mothers? The wo-
men between whom and their husbands
there is the closest bond of intellectual sym-
pathy.	MARGARET BUGHANAN.
—Woman's Words.


So surely as marriage is an institution
grounded in human nature, no woman
worthily and happily married is less fit-
ted to aid the general progress of the world
than she who stands alone with none to 
hinder: yes, with none to hinder, but with
none to help her either, in the exercise of 
her best gifts.  It is time that we utterly
repudiate the pernicious dogma that mar-
riage and a practical life-work are incom-
patible.


SEND your son into the world with good
principles and a good education, and he will
find his way in the dark.


