EDITOR EXPONENT:
 A feeling of interest in the children
growing up around us, prompts me to ven-
ture a few words.
	Does every mother in Israel early teach
her  children to pray night and morning?
I feel that we do not, or have not realized
the importance of this, or many of our 
young who are now going astray, might,
through this measure, have been kept in
the line of their duty.  Mothers, are we
careful enough in regard to the examples
we set before the rising generation?  If I 
backbite my neighbor, can I consistently
reprove my child for doing the same?  In
dealing with others, if I fail to be strictly
honest, or if in conversation I am not ex-
actly truthful, shall I expect my  children
to act and speak in a rightous and just
manner? Not if I am a reasonable wo-
man, surely.
	Some mothers are actually so thoughtless
  to speak lightly of the Improvement
Institutions which have been organized for 
the benefit of our young people. Yet what
a vast amount of good these organizations
are calculated to do!  And many mothers
have left much to be taught their sons and
daughters, in the meetings held by these
societies, which they might and should,
themselves, have instructed their children
in, advancing them in the Latter-day work,
and rendering less necessary the many
meetings about which some of them com-
plain.
 The mother who unnecessarily leaves her
children to the care of others, is liable
through so doing, to meet with misfortunes
for which she will never cease to reproach
herself.  Think of a mother going from
home for pleasure and leaving her little
daughter in the care of a nurse who wants,
alsp, to take her pleasure and does not wish
to be bothered with the child.  So she fixes
some clothes to look like a person standing
at the foot of the bed into which she puts
the little one, telling her if she cries that
person will take her off!  The mother comes
home to find her darling positively dead
with fright!  Now she may rail at the 
cruelly, heartlessness and dishonesty of 
the nurse, who was paid for taking care of
the child and has proved unfaithful.
What comfort does this give her stricken
heart?  She can but reflect that she too has
proved unfaithful and unworthy of the 
priceless treasure which God trusted to her
care.
 Oh! mothers be true to your high and
holy callings, and find no pleasures so sweet
as that of ceasless care and watchfulness
over your children.  Govern them in kind-
ness- do not whip them!  We all have
pains enough inflicted upon our bodies be-
fore we get through with life, if we avoid
all harshness toward each other.
 We should teach our children as far as 
possible to understand and keep the laws of
life and health.  These are important prin-
ciples contained in the Gospel of Jesus Christ
which embraces all good.  I am satisfied
that keeping late hours in dancing and 
other amusements is very injurious; and I
shall be glad when the counsel which has
been given concerning these things, is prac-
tically carried out in all the cities and set-
tlements of the Saints.
	We move slowly as a people, but we do
progress; and I know that one great item is
to have charity one for another, to forgive
each other's failings as we wish our own to
be forgiven.  I pray that wisdom may be
given to parents in Zion, and that their
children may prove worthy to bear off the
Kingdom."
                                                     M.S.
	20th Ward S. L. City


