[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: A DAY IN CONCORD. | Author: Unknown]

A DAY IN CONCORD.

	A day in Concord! What a train of
pleasant recollections this brings before my
mind. The task is indeed a heavy one,
that of picturing to my listeners one of the
most enjoyable days of my recent Eastern
visit, and I feel my inability to give even a
faint idea of this beautfful city.
	The first of May dawned happy for us
and we early completed our arrangements
for our contemplated trip. I, with four of
the other girls, boarded a car early in the
day and soon found ourselves at the station, 
from which point we started on our jour-
ney. The first feature is to procure a
guide book, which is hastily scanned as we
progress on our line of march. When we
reach Concord one of our number secures a
three seated carriage, and with a well in-
formed driver we resign ourselves to the
pleasures of the day.
	As we drive down the quaint streets of
this home-like little town, the many notable
places connected with the struggle for inde-
pendence are pointed out to us. Here is
the old Barrett house, which was ransacked
by the British soldiers in the hope that they
would find stores of gunpowder, which
were supposed to have been concealed by
Colonel Barrett. Near it stands the Lee
farm, where the Howard students held
their sessions while their buildings were
occupied by Revolutionary soldiers. The old
Wright tavern, in which, on the morning
of April 19th, Major Pitcairn boastingly
stated that he would win the day, occupies
a prominent position on Main Street. The
meeting place of the first Provincial Con-
gress is pointed out on a lot adjoining the
Wright tavern, while directly opposite this
place we see the Old Hill burying ground,
where the first settlers lived, and where
also the old powder house stood.
	Shall we now drive to the scene of battle?
As we approach the spot that seems so calm
and peaceful, we gaze on the monuments
placed on either side of the river, and as
we read the words inscribed thereon our
minds are filled with horror at the thought
of the terrible conflict. We seem to see the
brave men rouse at the word of their com-
mander and follow the order of him whose
word is law. As they advance, the boast
of Pitcairn seems about to be realized, for
what can be expected in so unequal a strug-
gle? We see the terrible effect of the
deadly volley which is poured into the
ranks of the minute men; and but a mo-
ment afterward see Major Butterich leap
into the air with the inspiring cry, ‘‘Fire


[Column 1]

fellow soldiers; for God's sake fire." As
they readily respond to his call, two of the
British fall and the remaining number
make a disorderly retreat. Cheer upon
cheer rise to the lips of our brave men and
we see the unsurpassed statue of the
Minute Man facing the spot where success
first crowned resistance to an unyielding
foe. We will follow them in their retreat
to Merriam's Corner, where they face
about and attempt to regain their lost
ground. It is of no avail, however, and
they are driven under fire from the Concord
men to Charlestown.
	We have been living in a military atmos-
phere, but let us now for a few moments
partake of the literary spirit with which
this place abounds. It is this same spot
which for years was the home of many of
our most charming writers. The names of
Emerson, Alcott, Hawthorne and Thoreau
are so closely connected with the place that
we seldom hear the name of Concord with-
out having the image of one of these per-
sons brought before our minds.
	As we drive out Lexington road we
come to a large square building which we
are told was the home of Ralph Waldo
Emerson. It is a beautiful place in a set-
ting of pine trees. This was always a
center for the many bright minds of the
age, and the intellectual influence of the
place seems to carry us into a world be-
yond our own. Some distance farther
down the road we see Orchard House,
which was the home for many years of one
of the dearest women who ever lived—
Louisa M. Alcott. Why is it that every
girl's heart thrills when she hears that
name? Need I ask such a question? Here
we can see her with her sister in their per-
fect enjoyment of home life. Their trials
were, perhaps, as heavy as any of us have
to bear, but how nobly they were overcome!
and afterwards the enjoyment of perfect
happiness followed as the just reward.
	It was here that Mr. Alcott established
his School of Philosophy, and the Hillside
Chapel, standing but a short distance from
the Orchard House, was the annual meet-
ing place. Adjoining the place on the left
we see the Wayside which was owned
and occupied by Nathaniel Hawthorne dur-
ing the latter part of his life. A restful
quiet seems to hang over the place, and we
can easily imagine this wonderful man
sending forth his best efforts from such a
spot.
	The Old Manse occupies a position on
the Concord river, in a lot closely connected
with the old battlefield. It is especially
dear to the hearts of Hawthorne's admir-
ers for his charming set of sketches, which
takes its name from this place.
	Henry Thoreau spent the greater part of
his life in Concord. Here he was given
ample scope for the fulfillment of his de-
sire to spend a great deal of his life in the
study of nature. The result of this with-
drawal from human companionship and de-
votion to nature and wild life is given in
Walden, or Life in the Woods.
	Our trip to Concord would indeed be con-
sidered incomplete without a visit to the
famous Wayside Inn in which so many re-
nowned people have been entertained. A
most pleasing description has been given
by our own dear poet, Longfellow, in his
interesting Tales of a Wayside Inn.
	We will now make our way to Sleepy
Hollow cemetery, where lie the mortal re-
mains of these valued contributors to
American literature. As we ascend the hill

[Column 2]
at the top of which we expect to find the
graves we seek, no sound breaks the still-
ness and our conversation is carried on in
hushed voices for fear of disturbing the
silence which hangs over the spot. In
close succession we pass the graves of
Thoreau, Hawthorne, Mr. and Mrs. Alcott
and their brave "Little Woman," and
Emerson, each grave being marked by a
suitable headstone. We feel, indeed, that
no more fitting locality could be chosen for
a last resting place, after the cares and sor-
rows of life, than this quiet peaceful spot.
						E. H. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELIZABETH PIXTON.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
I was born at Chesterfield, in Derbyshire,
England, on the 8th day of February, 1820.
My parents names were John and Charlotte
Cooper. There were five children of us,
four girls and one boy. I was the third a
boy and a girl being older than myself.
We were among the class known as poor
people, and, therefore, I had little or no
schooling and was expected, as soon as I
was able, to add my mite to our support.
My mother died when I was about six
years old, and you all know what home be-
comes without a mother. My father con-
tinued to keep house for about three years,
then the home was broken up and the fam-
ily divided among our relatives. I was
sent to live with my grandmother, until I
was about thirteen years old, then lived
with an aunt for about two years as a
nurse girl. Afterwards I went out to ser-
vice, and continued there until I was nine-
teen years old.
During my service I became acquainted
and kept company with Robert Pixton,
and we were married on May 5th, 1839.
On the 8th of Feburary, 1840, my first
baby, Charlotte, was born, and we got
along very nicely until my husband got
the American fever. He felt disposed to
go to Canada, but being acquainted with
Brother Bateman he finally went with the
Latter-day Saints, and sailed away on the
21st of September, 1841.
This was a sore trial to me, and I lost
my second baby, named George, a week
after my husband left. I now took a situ-
ation as wet nurse in a good family. I re-
ceived seven dollars a week wages and had
a very comfortable home. I stayed there
until October 21, 1843, when I left my
native land to join my husband.
We left in the good ship Champion.
From Liverpool our voyage lasted six
weeks and three days; a pleasant voyage as
compared with some of those days al-
though we were becalmed for four days.
But the end came and we landed at New
Orleans.
The ship company allowed us to live and
stay on board for several days, until the
boat was ready which was to take us up
the river, where we were met by my hus-
band on December 23, 1843, at Island 69,
in the State of Kansas. Brother Pixton
was accompanied by Brother Thomas Sil-
cock, who had also come to meet his wife,
for we had been companions all the way
from Liverpool.
We stayed at Island 69 that winter, and
lived in a blacksmith shop, and in the
spring we started up the Mississippi river
to Nauvoo, where we arrived safe and
sound. We bought a half acre of land of
William Blackhurst, and built a brick room.

[Column 2]
This was our first real estate, and our first
home. Brother Pixton after building our
house worked on the Temple until the
death of the Prophet Joseph, and whilst
here we had our endowments in the Tem-
ple.
We stayed in Nauvoo until the spring of
1846, when Brother Pixton drove some
teams up the country for President Brigham
Young. He came back for me in May
and we moved to Mount Pisgah. At this
time and previously a call had been made
upon Brigham Young for a company of the
brethren to tramp across the continent and
assist in the war in Mexico, and my hus-
band among others volunteered to go. He
left me at Pisgah and started off in what is
known as the Mormon Battalion.
From Pisgah we moved to WinterQuarters
or Florence, as it was afterwards called.
We passed the winter there, we could
scarcely say we lived. I was alone in my
old wagon box with my little girl,
Charlotte. Another baby boy was born to
me there. We called him Helaman,
Brother Brigham Young blessed him. He
died in about five weeks and was put away
with about five hundred more who were
buried at Winter Quarters that season.
I was glad when ihe winter was passed,
and in the month of July, 1847, I went
down to St. Louis to earn sufficient money
for a fit out to take me to Salt Lake I left
my wagon and cattle in the charge of my
friends. I stayed in St. Louis until the
spring of 1848, when I returned to Winter
Quarters and found my yoke of cattle and a
yoke of cows and my wagon all right, and
we started on May 2, 1848, across the
great plains to the Salt Lake valley, driv-
ing my own team. I was in Brigham
Young's hundred, and the wagon in front
of mine was Horace Eldredge's, and the
one behind me was William Van Dyke's.
I could not work my cows very well, so I
let Brother Inman take them to work.
We arrived in Salt Lake City on Septem-
ber 22, 1848, and camped down in the old
fort. One week after our arrival a com-
pany of the Mormon Battalion arrived. My
husband being among the company, we
went out to the warm springs to meet
them, and, after a parting of over two hard
years, we again started life together. We
lived in the fort until we got our city lot,
when Brother Pixton built us one adobe
room and had it finished and moved our 
few things in. In the morning a great
snow fell and it was sixteen weeks before
the ground was clear again.
During our residence in Salt Lake City
we became very well acquainted with
several of the Saints over Jordan, the
Bennions, Harkers and others, and in the
spring of 1859 we moved to Taylorsville,
where we have since resided. My husband
died on the 23rd of November, 1881.
In the spring of 1883 I went to England
to see relatives and friends, and succeeded
in getting a great amount of genealogy,
and have ministered the ordinances for a
great many relatives and friends
Today I have living five children, fifty
grandchildren, thirty-six great grandchil-
dren, and am eighty years old.


MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE presided at
the reception and dinner of the Authors’
Club, at the Vendome, on January 6, and
the Marion Osgood Ladies’ Orchestra furn-
ished the music.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT. 107


