HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Frozen potatoes may be cured by soaking them
in water three days before cooking.

	Remedy for Chillblains.—One ounce of tannin
to be dissolved in a pint of water and four scru-
ples of iodine in a sufficiency of alcohol; the solu-
tions to be mixed up to two pints. Then make
the solution hot and immerse the affected part in
it as long as the heat can be borne.

	Stuffed eggs.—Boil them hard cut them in two
and remove the yelks, and beat them up with a
little grated ham, parsley, pepper and salt to taste;
place this mixture within the whites, cut the un-
derpart a little so as to make them stand well on 
the dish, and serve with white sauce.

	To Ice a Cake.—Beat the whites of two eggs
to a stiff froth, mix in gradually half a pound of
icing sugar till quite smooth, lay the mixture
evenly on the cake after it is baked and before it is
cold. Place it in a cool oven to harden but not to
brown. It can be ornamented if wished before
putting it in the oven.

	Novelty Pudding.—Make a teacupful of strong
well-cleared coffee; beat four eggs with five ounces
of sugar, one pint of milk previously boiled, and
a half pinch of salt, add the coffee strain into a
pie-dish two inches deep: put the dish into a sauce
pan with sufficient boiling water to reach to the
middle of the dish; put into a moderate oven till
quite firm; when cold, sprinkle powdered sugar
over it and glaze with a red hot iron.

	Cheap Pudding.—Peel and core about half a
dozen apples according to their size, cut them in
slices and lay them in a pie-dish; sprinkle them
with sugar (powdered) and then put a thin layer
of apricot or other jam. Take two ounces of ar-
rowroot; mix it with a pint of milk a little sugar
and a small piece of butter; stir it over the fire
until it boils, and then pour it into the pie-dish with
the apples and jam, and bake until it is done.

	Starching Linen.—Make a liquid paste with
good fine starch and cold water, and stir in boiling
water until a stiff paste is formed, and add white
wax say one ounce of wax to a pound of starch,
the exact proportions for smaller quantities can
only be determined by experience. If it is de-
sirable that the linen should be very stiff, pow-
dered gum arabic may be added to the cold water
with which the starch is mixed. The strained
starch should be thoroughly rubbed into the arti-
cles after they have been well wrung out, after
which they should be placed between dry cloths
and laid on an ironing board and rubbed in one di-
rection with a soft rag to distribute any lumps of
starch. Collars etc. should be ironed dry with a
hot iron and considerable pressure. The sticking
of the iron may be prevented by drawing it while
hot over wax and wiping it with a rag dipped in
salt.


Childrens Clothing.—Every mother should re-
member, that a small body is much more easily
chilled, and therefore needs much more protection
against cold than a large one, and that a child, ex-
cept when in active exercise, should be compara-
tively much more warmly clothed than a vigorous
adult.


