			AWAY FROM HOME.

	By courtesy of Brother Geo. H. Taylor,
supt. of 14th Wd. Sunday School, we are
enabled to publish the following interesting
epistle from Elder Samuel P. Richards.

	I well remember with what feelings it
was that I arose before the school to bid
good bye to my mates, and the school with
which I had been connected ever since its
first organization in the ward; realizing at
the time, that I was to leave probably for
years, and possibly for ever, to go forth and
labor in the vineyard of the Lord, in a for-
eign land and among a people speaking a
language foreign to my own, and to pro-
claim to them the truths of the everlasting
Gospel, trusting in God alone for assist-
ance.
	My associations with the Sunday School
were always pleasant and many are the
good principles and ideas I there learned,
that have been useful to me, and which I
never shall forget.
	I left home, relatives and friends on the
first day of Nov. 1873, accompanied to Og-
den by some of my relatives, whom I bid
good bye at the depot at 7.15, p. m. when
the cars started and we sped swiftly on the
way.
	Although the separation from those near
and dear to me left feelings of sadness in
my heart, yet it was not long before they
were expelled by the excitement with
which I was surrounded, and through my
desire to see the new scenery and every
thing that was of interest to be seen on the
way, for it was a beautiful moonlight night,
and objects at a considerable distance, could
be seen almost as distinctly as at noon-day.
	Our little party consisted of six persons.
viz. R. G. Lambert and wife, H. S. Wool-
ley and wife, B. Stringham Jr. and myself,
all young, the eldest of the company being
but 23 years old.
	We were all of a somewhat lively dispos-
ition and consequently did not hug sorrow,
which somewhat surprised the passengers
on the train, for numbers of them asked us
"how it was that we, leaving our homes
under such circumstances, could do so and
feel so light hearted?" Of course they did
not know as we did, that we were going ac-
cording to the call of the true servants of
God, to do His will and His work, and that
He did not require us to pull long faces and
to go with downcast countenances.
	To enter into minutiae and tell about all I
saw on that short, swift ride of two days
and two nights, over nine hundred miles
of road of the most beautiful scenery,
would take up too much of my time, and the
space of this letter, besides tiring your pa-
tience. Suffice it to say that every minute,
almost, exhibited some thing new and in-
teresting to one who had never before left
home in the valleys of the Rocky Moun-
tains.
	The second day of our traveling we pass-
ed a great deal of beautiful scenery through
Truckee, from where large quantities of
lumber are shipped to S. L. City, and over
the Sierra Nevada mountains. Over that
part of the road, there are a great many R.
R. stations where little towns have sprung
up and where the trains stop for a few min-
utes at each place. Shortly before reach-
ing a station the engine whistle would
blow which would apprise the people of the
near approach of a train. Hardly would
the gratings of the wheels of the stopping
cars cease, when numbers of boys and girls,

[Column 2]
who probably never had the privilege of
attending Sunday school, would be seen
running to and fro with baskets on their
arms, crying out to the passengers to buy
their fruits; for they were little fruit ven-
ders.
	When we arrived at Sacramento, and
while the train was stopping for half an
hour, I went on board a large steam boat
standing in the Saeramento, near its bank.
	There were also many other vessels near
by and these were the first that I had ever
seen. It was also the first time that I had
ever seen a really large river and city,
and also so many people gathered together
at one place; with the exception of when
the semi-annual conferences were held in S.
L. City. But the Sacramento R. R. depot
is t[--]s thronged nearly every day.
	At 7.30 p. m. on Monday the 2nd day
from home, the cars drew up at "Oakland"
ferry, on the opposite side of the harbor
from San Francisco and we—the passengers
—were ushered, or huddled rather, into
what at first appeard to be a sheep pen, in-
closed by a high picket fence, but which we
soon found out to be the entrance to the
harbor ferry boat.  The way we went in
there was like driving sheep into a corral,
for there were a great many people waiting
to go in and the entrance, or gate, was a
narrow one, admitting only one person at a
time, for no one was allowed to go in who
did not have a ticket to present to the keep-
er.
	At the wharf on the opposite side there
was an immense crowd assembled and it
was with difficulty that we followed our
guide to the coach that was to take us to
the hotel. It seemed but a minute 'til I
found myself on top of that coach with a
number of other,s and was riding through
crooked winding streets and cross roads, in
the midst of rumbling vehicles and clatter-
ing of horses hoofs over the pavement of
rough cobble stones, and we came to a stand
in front of the hotel.
	What a relief it seemed to get into a
quiet room where we could hear ourselves
talk. I almost imagine I can hear that
rumbling noise now...We previously ex-
pected to spend but one day in San Francis-
co, but the sailing of the vessel, which was
to take us, was postponed from Wednesday
to Saturday. We passed away the time
in looking about the city and visiting places
of note and interest.
	'Twas here that I first saw, in large num-
bers the news boys and boot blacks, of
whom most Sunday School children in Utah
have heard so often. It was really amus-
ing to see and hear them parading the
streets at their different avocations. One
thing I did not notice in the metropolis of
California, but which is prevalent in most
large cities, and that was many beggars in
the streets asking for alms.
	Our time was both pleasantly and profita-
bly spent in the large city, and the rustic
country lad saw many things to open his
eyes and cause him to wonder. My young
Sunday School friends can never realize how
many people there are in the world, 'til
they have the privilege of visiting some of
the large cities of the world.
	Saturday afternoon, Nov. 8th, we went
on board the Bark "Comet," which was to
carry us across the great Pacific ocean to
our destination. Sails were raised, and a
small vessel, called a "tug" was hitched
along side of the "Bark" and hauled it out
past the "Golden Gate," the name given to
the entrance to the harbor. There are many
beautiful sights to be seen in San Francisco
but that from the deck of a vessel while leav-

[Column 3]
ing the city and sailing out through the
bay is really grand to behold.
	While the "tug" was fast to our vessel, it
glided smoothly over the surface of the
sea, and everybody on board seemed to feel
first rate; but just as soon as the "tug" let
go, the vessel began to roll and rock, and
then, O! what a change came o'er their (the
passenger's) dreams. One by one they be-
gan to descend into the cabin, and to hunt
for their berths, or beds, and long before
we were out of sight of the "Golden State,"-
the once crowded deck of the vessel was al-
most entirely deserted. This was the re-
sult of sea sickness, something which af-
fects nearly all, who live on land entirely,
when they first go to sea.
	Not being troubled with sea sickness my
self I could not sympathize with those who
were; but it is such a disagreeable thing
that those who are afflicted with it do not
care, at the time, whether the "ship sinks
or floats" or whether they "live or die."
All but two of our little party were sick,
but in the course of three or four days they
were well and hearty, and we all enjoyed as
best we could, the balance of our long tedi-
ous sea voyage.
	On the morning of the 17th day out from
San Francisco, we arose from our berths
and found ourselves in sight of land, the
vessel sailing busily along the island of
"Oahu," the principal of this, the "Sand-
wich Islands," group. This made every
heart glad, for all were weary of the sea
voyage and wishing to get to land.
	Of course the vessel was immediately in
an uproar, the sailors making preparations
to enter the harbor and the passengers pre-
paring to go ashore. Before we came in
sight of Honolulu, the pilot boat was seen
sailing toward us, for the pilot had pre-
viously been signaled to come aboard and
take the vessel in.
	Having been sent to labor amongst the
inhabitants of these islands, I was, of
cource, naturally anxious to see what the
people looked like and also to hear their
language. I therefore drew near where the
boat came along side of the "Bark." Imag-
ine my astonishment on beholding some
half dozen large, dark-skinned, naked na-
tives; at least their only article of clothing
was what is termed in native, a "malo,"
tied about their loins. When talking it
seemed to me that what they said was one,
long, continuous word, uttered in one breath,
and the question immediately sprung up
within myself; "I wonder if I shall ever be
able to understand any one, who speaks as
fast as they appear to talk?" Then remem-
bering the promise of the servants of God
"that I should obtain a knowledge of the
language of the people" the question was
speedily answered.
	When we left home (S. L. City) the trees
had shed their leaves, winter had put on
its own peculiar robes, and we had seen the
snow laying on the ground. But on arriv-
ing here it seemed like passing from win-
ter to spring; for here the grass was green
and growing on the hills, the leaves green
on the trees and the flowers in bloom in the
neat, pretty gardens.
	It was the sudden change that made
every place in Honolulu, (the harbor city
and capital of this group) and on the island
appear so beautiful. It was, to us, like en-
tering into a paradise.
	As soon as the native saints heard of our
arrival they flocked to where we were stop-
ping, to see us; but as they could not speak
a word of English, nor we a word of Hawa-
iian, we could not converse with them
only by motions until they brought in an in-


terpreter, when we told them all the news
from the "Valleys of the Mountains."
	We rode on horse back 32 miles to Laie,
the head quarters of the church on these
islands, and over the most beautiful part of
that island. The natives, men, women
and children, gathered around as soon as we
arrived to see the new comers, and brought
us "Leis" (wreaths of flowers strung like
beads) with which they nearly covered the
wives of the brethren; and they also sang
a variety of native songs for us.
	Our reception was indeed a pleasant one,
the only regret we had being, that we could
not utter a sentence of native language.
	We reached Laie on the 28th of Nov., and
on the 13th of the following month (Dec.) I
left the brethren and sisters (from Zion,) and
the pleasant associations with them, and
started off to live amongst the natives and
study their language. One of the brethren
who understood the native tongue accom-
panied me to a little village called Kawai-
kepal," about 22 miles from Laie, and after
holding a meeting with the saints, introduc-
ing me to them and seeing me provided
for, he returned and left me alone with the
natives.
	Such questions as "Wasn't you home sick?
Didn't you get the blues? Were you not very
lonesome there all alone with no one to talk
to but natives?" Might arise in the minds
of some; but I can truly say, in answer to
such questions, no, not at all.
	Had I had nothing to do I certainly would
have been lonely and home sick, but I had
plenty to occupy my time in studying the
language, committing words and sentences
to memory, and in trying to converse with
the natives for practice.
	Whenever a tired or lonely feeling would
come over me I would take a stroll and hunt
for some one with whom to try and con-
verse, and all such feelings would soon be
expelled.
	In this way I spent three months study-
ing, at that one place, returning to Laie pre-
vious to our April conference, and a very
short three months it seemed to me, my
mind being so engrossed in seeking for the
language, that the time passed very rapidly.
	I presume that most of the Sunday School
scholars, at least the larger ones, have heard
at some time or other, about the principal
article of native food called "Poi," and have
formed the opinion, or conceived the idea,
that it is a very disagreeable thing for a
white person to eat. Let a person who had
never tasted, look at it and he would natur-
ally think so; but when a person once gets
used to it there is no food, which I can think
of, that is more pleasant and agreeable; es-
pecially when hungry.
	It is made of a vegetable that grows in
the water and is somewhat similar to the
beet in shape, but which grows with the
larger end downwards. After the vegeta-
ble has been cooked with steam, being pla-
ced over red hot rocks and then covered
over tightly to prevent the steam from es-
caping, it is then pounded up fine on a
board with a rock, after which it is mixed
with water and formed into a paste of suit-
able thickness to suit the persons eating it.
The natives always eat it with their fingers,
It is eaten with fish fowl or meat of some
kind.
	We seldom find knife, fork or spoon, at a
native house, and not being accustomed to
eat with our fingers, we therefore have to
take such articles along with us in our trav-
els. "Poi" is not the only article of food;
but there are potatoes, squash melons, and
a variety of delicious fruits. It may seem
strange to the young people of S. L. City,
to be told that water melons are now ripe
here in the month of December, which is
almost the middle of winter there, but it is
so. I have, myself, eaten water melon here
this month, and there are ripe fruits of
some kind, fresh and growing, to be had all
the year round.
	We have no such thing as snow or frost
on these islands, it is summer all the year
round; consistently it is only by thinking
of the months that I can remember when it
is winter at home.
	There are many peculiarities of the na-
tives that would be interesting to relate, 
but I have not time to enlarge upon them.
The people generally, are kind and very
hospitable, and in all my travels I never
was refused hospitality but two or three
times when I asked for it. They are al-
ways free to give when they have, especi-
ally anything to eat; and it is a custom
with them, when ever a stranger or neigh-
bor comes to their place, to ask him, or her
to eat, providing they have anything, and
as it is not etiquette to refuse, a native will
sometimes when travelling around, eat from
three to ten times a day. I have often had
to eat when I really did not wish to, to
avoid giving offense.
	Natives seldom take thought for to-mor-
row, but if they get a sumptuous supply to-
day they turn in and eat it all up if they
can, and let the morrow take thought for
itself. Through this way of living they are
often compelled to go hungry.
	The men and boys usually do all the cook-
ing, and the women and girls work in the
"Lois" (where the food is cultivated in wa-
ter) and in the potato patches along with
the men.
	This people are generally very fond of
animals and it is no unusual thing to see
them keeping pigs, dogs, cats, chickens,
turkeys and geese, and allowing them to
run in and out of the house just as they
please; but when we visit and stay with
them they drive all the animals and fowls
out of doors.
	I have slept in native houses when there
were dogs, cats, and pigs within, besides
any quantity of little animals such as mice,
cockroaches, fleas and mosquitoes. Natives
can live and be happy in the midst of all
these things.
	How thankful to the Lord the children of
the Latter-Day Saints shoudl be, that they
have neat, clean, comfortable houses in
which to live, and kind parents to care for
them and teach them cleanly habits.
	Not so with the children of this people;
they run in a manner wild; go where they
please; when they please; and do just
about as they like. The parents have very
little control over their children.
	According to the law of the land every
child, when old enough, is compelled to at-
tend school so many hours a day; conse-
quently nearly every body, old and young
can read and write; but when out of school
their time is spent in play, for they seldom
do any work while attending school, which
is until they are from 12 to 16 years old.
	If it was not that they are dependent on
their parents for food, they would not work
at all or obey their parents commands. But
as it is they have to work a little and give
some heed to their parents in order to get
their food. Unless the young girls and
boys go to some English or high school, they
are not taught to be industrious, to do any
neat or useful work, learn trades or keep
themselves neat and tidy.
	Of course there are honorable exceptions
to this general rule but they are very few.
I believe the children living on Laie dress
better, are more cleanly, better behaved,
and know more about useful and beneficial
employment than do the children of any
other place on these islands, outside of the
English schools where they make it a point
to teach these things.
	Again, there is some little respect shown
there, to virtue and morality, which is not
the case with the mass of the people through-
out these islands. The almost total disre-
gard to these great and Godly principles is
the great cause of the astonishlingly rapid
decrease in the population of these islands
from over eighty thousand in 1850, to about
twenty thousand at the present time. An-
other cause is, that they have the true and
everlasting Gospel preached in their midst,
but they disregard its mandates, will not
obey its principles, nor will they hearken to
the councels and instructions of the ser-
vants of God laboring in their midst; there-
fore the wrath of the Almighty rests up-
on them.
	I have traveled around every island of this
group, where people are living, and we are
allowed to go; and many times have the
natives pointed out to me places where
there were cities, villages and lands that
were thickly populated with natives when
Geo. Q. Cannon and a number of the breth-
ren came down here in 1850, to open up the
Gospel of Life to the people, that now are
desolate and barren wastes.
	When the remnants of Israel living on
these islands, are gathered out to the land
of their inheritance, their numbers will be
very few indeed unless the Lord works a
wonderful change with the people.
	Since October conference I have been
traveling continually from one island to an-
other, returning to head quarters at the end
of each six months, to attend the confer-
ence, rest a couple of weeks or so, and then
start off again.
	Our labors amongst the outsiders, in pro-
claiming the Gospel to them is, to look at it
naturally, almost ineffectual, for they have
heard it so often, and have set their minds
against it through fear of their priests, that
they do not want to hear it any more.
	We therefore cannot do much but travel
amongst the sains, or the members of the
church, and teach and encourage them to do
right, live their religion, and keep the com-
mandments of God.
	It is that there are a few souls, who are
honest and trying to keep the command-
ments of the Lord, that gives us encourage-
ment in our labors. Much good can be done
by setting a good example if in no other
way.
	I have often attended the public meetings
of the Calvinists and Catholics the only
Christian sects established among the na-
tives, but never had the opportunity grant-
ed me of speaking in their churches but
twice. The priests fear to grant us the priv-
ilege lest we convert their members and
they (the priests) thereby loose the dollars
and cents that they get from them (the
members). They labor for money, and that
only.
	Br. Stringham (my fellow laborer) and
I recently visited the leper settlement on
the island of "Molokai." It almost seems
that the Lord foresaw the calamity that was
coming upon this people, and therefore pre-
pared that wonderful and applicable natu-
ral prison for those of the loathsome dis-
ease; for there are but two ways of entrance
or to egress from the place, and those are by
sea and down a very high and steep moun-
tain path.
	We slept at the settlement one night held
meeting with the members of the church,
and preached to an audience of lepers. It


is a sorrowful and heart-rending sight to see
the condition in which those poor human
beings exist, for it is a mere existence.
Not only are grown people affected with it
but also children and even babes. On my
former visit I saw them in every form of
the disease, from the first outbreaking on
the babe to the poor helpless being who
was within a few hours of undergoing that
great separation of soul and body, for then I
visited the hospital wards; but the last vis-
it I avoided the wards, not wishing to again
behold the awful sight. God will punish
those who disregard His laws.
	Bro. J. H. Napela, whom many may re-
member having seen in Utah in 1870, and
who is still at the settlement attending on
his wife, wishes a kind remembrance to all
with whom he made acquaintance while in
Salt Lake City.
	There are now seven hundred lepers
at the settlement, and about that many
more not yet gathered in from amongst the
people. Many having the disease are secre-
ted by their friends.
	As I have to write in a rather uncomfort-
able position, laying flat on my stomach on
a native mat, for in the native houses we
seldom ever find either stools, chairs or ta-
bles, I begin to feel tired. And I fear that
the length of this letter will wear out your
patience. What I have written I sincerely
hope will be of interest to all who pursue or
hear it read; for I have penned just such
thoughts as came to my mind that I sup-
posed would be of interest.
	I would say to the children of the Sun-
day School: Continue to be punctual attend-
ers; hearken to and carry out the counsel
and instructions of your teachers; store your
minds with useful knowledge, by reading
good books, and especially the publications
of the church; cease to read all fictitious
novels for they will never do you any good;
always be obedient unto your parents and
God will bless you.
	If opportunity offers I may at some fu-
ture day, again write to the school. *	*


