		SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1876.


[Column 1]
		AN OPINION.
	If the present Congress would adopt two
measures—n[-]mely to admit Utah as a state
and grant the women of the United States
their political rights—it would make a gener-
ous showing for America's Centennial. But
men holding authority do not seem inclined
now, more than in times past, to make any lib-
eral move toward either of the causes referred
to, especially the former.
	They appear, these public officers who are
invested with so much power, at least some of
them appear to be desirous of seeking justice—a
kind of justice—enacted. But they are so
short-sighted, so willfully blind that they can-
not or will not comprehend what justice is or
ought to be in relation to an innocent and
much abused people, the Mormons.
	Totally disregarding the crimes and corrup-
tion which exist in their own midst, which
they do not and cannot deny, they still seek,
as they have been doing for years, to justify
themselves in reaching out to Utah, extending
malignancy against polygamy.
	His honor, Chief Justice White, in his recent
charge to the Grand Jury, introduced some
striking evidences—as he supposes doubtless—
in favor of the suppression of polygamy as be-
lieved in and practised by the Latter-day
Saints. But his arguments like those of his
numerous predecessors, want the quality of be-
ing altogether sound, according to the sense in
which a Latter-day Saint must view them.
	The Judge says "If Mormonism cannot sev-
er itself from polygamy, it will be to it the
bridal of death." But the Lord has promised
better things to those who honor and obey the
doctrine of Celestial marriage; and the Saints
have occasion to trust Him rather than to fear
the predictions of those who understand not
His law and enter not into covenant with Him.
	His honor speaks of "testing" the Mormons
and their religion "by a standard which the
world recognizes as just," but it is not to be
supposed that the Lord of Hosts would recog-
nize a judgment thus rendered against His
people and against the religion of His Son Je-
sus Christ.
	The Judge gives the Mormons much credit
for industry, frugality, temperance and hon-
esty; that they have redeemed this portion of
country from sterility; have neither beggers
nor alms-houses, and are a law abiding people
in every respect but one. This one objection-
able practice he styles "the principle of self-
destruction." But a careful and honest inves-
tigation would readily show that this is a mis-
taken idea in which the Judge indulges. That
the polygamy of the Mormons is a self preserv-
ing principle instead of being self destroying.
	He says "The supreme law-making power is

[Column 2]
all against the advocates of polygamy." In
this he is again mistaken, for he fails to recog-
nize the All supreme power of God, which man
cannot gainsay, and by which polygamy was
instituted among the Saints.
	He speaks of "Forty millions of people
against less than one hundred thousand," and
says farther, "The public opinion of the civil-
ized world is against polygamy, and in the
nineteeth century no institution can stand
against this public opinion." Polygamy has
stood for a number of years, in this century,
however; and if its advocates still hearken to
the words of the Lord and strive diligently to
know and do His will, with such a Command-
er-in-chief they have nothing to fear from the
public opinion of the world, civilized or un-
civilized.
	His honor compares the polygamy of the
Mormons with the slavery of the South, as
others have done But did God ever command
the white people of the Southern States to
make slaves of the negroes, to buy and sell
them like cattle, and put them to work like
dumb beasts? If the holding of slaves was any
part of the religion or religions of the Southern
people it was never made to appear so. And
if God had spoken to those people and com-
manded them to keep slaves, surely he would
have sustained them in doing so against all
opposition, or he would have warned them
when He wished the practice discontinued.
The Lord never gives commandments wherein
He fails to uphold and sustain those who listen
to Him and seek to carry out His purposes.
	Therefore no Latter-day Saint need think of
surrendering to the opponents of truth. But
all should be in readiness to receive the word
of God, determined to live by it whatever its
requirements may be.
	Should Congress pass laws by which the
Mormons will be robbed of their political
rights, (but we do not believe they will.) it
will only redound to the glory of God in some
new and unexpected manner, so that the Saints
may still sing with the ancient psalmist.
	"Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee;
the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain."


[Column 1]
		AFFECTATION.
	"A man of sense can artifice disdain,
	As men of wealth can venture to go plain:
	I find the fool when I behold the screen
	For 'tis the wise man's interest to be seen."
