FLOWERS.
	A GENEROUS mind when it does a favor,
will do it with a grace.
	IT has been truly and tenderly said "Even
that perfect petition, the Lord's prayer,
gains something from the fact that every
man who repeats it, remembers that he
learned it at his mother's knee."
	NOTICE everything that is done by oth-
ers to contribute to your benefit or happi-
ness. Nothing seems more ungracious than
the passing over without remark, and ap-
parently without thought, the thousand
and one little efforts and attentions which
are intended to sweeten domestic life.
	IF you aspire to the highest and best,
you may not be able to reach the summit,
but you will come much nearer to it than if,
in the first instance, clipping the wings of
what is really pure, noble, unselfish ambi-
tion, you determine to sacrifice and surren-
der all claim to the highest and the best,
and rest content with some commonplace
attainment.
	THERE have been heroes who never set a
squadron in the field, or bared their breast
to an enemies' steel. To defend the truth
when it is unpopular, to withstand the
sneer, the pity or the laugh which fre-
quently assails those who stand up for truth
and right, may demand an amount of calm
courage which is not needed amid garments
dyed in blood of the battle-field.
	THERE is no trouble congenial compan-
ionship cannot soften, no joy it cannot in-
crease. The poorest dwelling, the most
meagre fare, shared with people whose
thoughts are one's own, who catch one's
meaning at once, and enjoy the same things,
are better than all the luxuries the world can
give, shared by those who are delighted by
what bores us, and when we are delighted
they are unutterably bored.
	THE heart of man seeks for sympathy,
and each of us craves a recognition of his
talents and his labors; but this craving is in
danger of becoming morbid unless it be
constantly kept in check by calm reflection
on its vanity. or by dwelling upon the very
different and far l[---]her motives which
ought to actuate us. That man has fallen
into a pitiable state o[-] moral sickness in
whose eyes the good opinion of his fellow
men is a test of men [--]d their applause
the principal reward of exertion.—Helps.


MISS Mary Carpenter is doing a great
work in India. She anticipates establishing
institutions of learning and education for
females at Karachi and Hyderabad. This
winter she is making a tour of Southern
India first for the purpose of education, and
then through the Northern Provinces, and
return to Bombay sometime in March. This
lady is of that type of character which
seems never to falter or swerve in purpose
where good is to be accomplished, if energy
and determination will succeed.


"THE sacred heavens around him shine-"
wrote the poet. The compositor put it:
"The scared hyenas around him whine."


