		SELECTED.


[Column 1]
		PIPSEY PAPERS.
	We often hear some one, who thinks he
knows all about it singing or speaking the
praises of Saturday night. They are men of
course and think themselves fully posted on
the subject. From their standpoint per-
haps they are. They come to their homes
full of life and vigor with their week's la-
bor finished and their minds at rest, sit
themselves down at the cheerful fire in the
clean pleasant sitting rooms or kitchens or
both as the case may be, draw up the spit-
toon or send a squirt over the spotless floor,
take a piece of paper and draw a few pic-
tures of the beauties and comforts of Satur-
day night. But my view is from another
standpoint, it is the woman's side of the
question. I said to Mollie what a fine thing
Saturday night is; "Yes, said she, why
don't you write about it? I will take care
of the baby to-morrow if you will sit down
and tell them about Saturday night." I will
try, but I shall fail to do justice to the sub-
ject.
	I have been busy all the week but I can-
not see that I have accomplished much but

[Column 2]
that which will have to be done next week
just the same. I have worked and worried
all day trying to make things neat and tidy
for the Sabbath, and have things in order
to commence another week; I have search-
ed the dirt from the corners, wiped the lit-
tle finger marks from the doors, washed
and scrubbed until both brain and hands
are thoroughly tired; the chairs are set back,
the furniture dusted, the fire shines bright
and supper is ready-a cheerful picture cer-
tainly. But presently the doors open and
in comes a troop of noisy children with
muddy feet. How every tramp and every
scream goes through my weary nerves and
aching head, but it is Saturday night and
the little ones must all be washed and dress-
ed clean for Sunday. That is a work
on which mothers in general are posted, and
certainly the most trying labor of the day;
for who ever washed a child that had not a
sore somewhere and did not give a pierc-
ing shriek at the most unexpected moment;
scratches and chapped hands are generally
the order of the day. A friend of mine
tells me that she has to wash her children
before night, as their father is tired when
he comes home and does not wish their
noise; happy husband to have all annoyan-
ces over before he comes home.
	Another round of supper dishes to wash,
dirty clothes to pick up and things to make
tidy again. The children put to bed and 
all quiet, mother crawls into bed with the
fretful baby, tired and aching in every joint.
and after tossing and turning awhile goes
off to sleep thanking the Lord that Satur-
day night is over once more. And this is
the picture of Saturday night for the ma-
jority of mothers, and will answer for a ma-
jority of the years notwithstanding the
poems and pretty things that are written
about Saturday night.
	I ought to tell you something about how a
woman writes, at least how I write, it may
not suit all women as well. I often think
of a picture I saw once, called "The pursuit
of art under difficulties." It represented a
man trying to paint a picture: He was
standing before an easel, trying to keep a
baby still by holding it straddle of his
shoulders, while three or four older ones
were turning somersaults, and tossing so-
fa cushions at each other just behind him.
And that is the picture I think of when I
try to write. I often do not complete two
lines without stopping to talk of something
else, or getting up to wait on the children.
It is "ma this" or "ma that", so I hope my
readers are not disappointed if I fail to give
them anything very entertaining; but re-
member that it is the pursuit of LITERA-
TURE under difficulties.
	When I was cutting garments last fall a
neighbor lady coming in to assist me said,
"let me show you my way, perhaps you will
like it better." She tore two pieces the
length that was wanted, folded them
neatly together, laid the pattern on and cut
both sides at once. I was so well pleased
that I always cut that way since, it saves
so much time. I always thought it such a 
tedious job to cut garments, and I suppose
there are many who are just as awkward as
I was.
	When I was a little girl about twelve
years old, there was a lady who gathered
the children to her house both boys and
girls one afternoon every week and taught
them the principles of the Gospel. She
sang with us and taught us the meaning of
the hymns. I had never before thought of
any meaning being connected with them;
she also had us read verses in the Book of
Mormon and the Bible, and explained them
to our childish understandings, taught us

[Column 3]
to pray and told us the meaning of prayer.
There was a houseful every Thursday after-
noon, and I suppose there are many now liv-
ing who can remember their first childish
efforts at speaking and praying, and the
principles of honor and honesty instilled in-
to their minds by her kind and zealous la-
bor. It was a labor of love. She said it
was her mission, and that she kept the
names of all her scholars and gave them to
President Young. I have not seen her for
many years, and do not know if she is liv-
ing or dead. But this I know, her memory
lives in one heart at least, and I shall al-
ways think of her with reverence. Her
name is Hencord, and if this should meet
her eye she will have the satisfaction of
knowing that the seed she sowed has
born good fruit in one heart at least, and
her mission was not all in vain.
			MARY.


