THE TIME TO BE PLEASANT.
	"Mother's cross!" said Maggie, coming
out into the kitchen with a pout on her
lips. Her aunt was busy ironing, but she
looked up and answered Maggie.
	"Then it is the very time for you to be
pleasant and hopeful. Mother was awake
a great deal in the night with the poor ba-
by."
	Maggie made no reply, she put on her
bonnet and walked off into the garden.
But a new idea went with her. "The very
time to be pleasant and hopeful is when oth-
er people are cross. Sure enough thought
she," that would be a good time, when it
would do the most good. I remember when
I was sick last year, I was so nervous that
if any body spoke to me I could hardly help
being cross, and mother never got angry or
out of patience with me. I ought to pay her
back now and I will! And she sprang up
from the grass where she had thrown her-
self, and turned a face full of cheerful reso-
lution toward the room where her mother
sat tending a fretful teething baby. Mag-
gie brought out the pretty ivory balls and
began to tingle them for the little one. He
stopped fretting, and a smile dimpled the
corners of his lips.
	"Couldn't I take him out to ride in his


carriage, mother, it is such a nice morning?"
she asked.
	"I should be so glad if you would!" said
her mother.
	The little hat and sacque were brought,
and baby was soon ready for his ride.
	"I'll keep him as long as he is good," said
Maggie, "and you must lie on the sofa and
take a nap while I am gone, you are looking
dreadfully tired."
	The kind words and the kiss that accom-
panied them were almost too much for the
mother. The tears rose to her eyes, and
her voice trembled as she answered, "Thank
you, dearie, it will do me a world of good
if you can keep him out an hour, and the
air will do him good, too. My head aches
badly this morning."
	What a happy heart beat in Maggie's
bosom as she trundled the little carriage up
and down the walk; she had done real good.
She had given back a little of the care and
forbearance that had so often been bestowed
upon her. She had made her mother hap-
pier, and given her time to rest. She re-
solved always to remember and act upon her
aunt's good words. "The very time to be
helpful and pleasant is when everybody is
tired and cross.
