WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.
	On the second and last day's session of
the Woman's Suffrage Association, just held
at Tallmadge Hall, Washington, Mrs. Gage
in the chair, the following proceedings oc-
curred, as reported in the Washington
Chronicle—
	"Mrs. Lockwood called attention to a vis-
it of a delegation from Utah to the Presi-
dent of the United States, in regard to the
Suffrage privilege in that Territory, yester-
day morning; and she said she saw in that
a design to prevent the women of Utah from
voting, and offered the following additional
resolution in that connection, which was
also adopted—
	"Resolved, That the right of Suffrage
being vested in the women of Utah, by
their constitutional and lawful enfranchise-
ment and by its peers of use, we denounce
the proposition about to be again presented
to Congress by the Utah ring for the dis-
franchisement of thousands of legal voters
in that Territory, as an outrage on the free-
dom of the people and a gross invasion of
a vested right; that we denounce the abo-
lition of the system of numbering the bal-
lots, in order that the women may be thor-
oughly free to vote as they choose, without
supervision or instruction; and that the
chair appoint a committe of three persons,
with power to add to their number, to
memorialize Congress and otherwise to
watch over the women of Utah in this re-
gard during the next twelve months.'
	"The chair appointed Mrs: B. A. Lock-
wood, Mrs. S. J. Spencer and Ellen C. Sar-
gent as the committee."


A DEVONSHIRE rector who was master
of a rattling pack of hounds, was much in
want of a curate. His church warden—
Zozer—paying the market town a visit, was
thus accosted by his grocer; "Well Mr. Zo-
zer, have ye got a coorate yet fur Bridg-
well?" "Not yit, they don't all suit mais-
ter; but there's his advertisement so I reck-
on he'll soon get one;" "Wanted, a curate
for Bridgwell; must be a gentleman of mod-
erate and orthodox views." Orthordox,
Mr. Zozer, what does he mean by orthor-
dox?" "Well," said the church warden
thoughtfully, and in deep perplexity, know-
ing the double nature of the curate's duties,
which were secular as well as sacred. "I
can't exactly say, but I reckon 'tis a man
as can ride pretty well."


To most men, experience is like the stern
light of a ship, which illumines only the
track it has passed.


