	R. S. REPORTS.

	GOSHEN, UTAH Co. Jan. 27th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the kind interest you take in
the young and rising generation, I submit
a few items to your notice and for publica-
tion should you see fit.  At the instigation
of the President of our Relief Society, Mrs.
Mary Johnson, we have started a Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association
in this place.  Our Bishop and his Counsel-
ors with a few other brethren met with
some of our sisters for the purpose of organ-
izing, and made some excellent remarks ap-
propriate to the occasion. We have held
our fifth Semi-Monthly meeting all of
which have been well attended, our young
girls having taken hold with a zest. We
also have a paper edited by Mrs. C. Higgin-
son, entitled "The Young Ladies' Gem" in
which are very creditable pieces composed
by our young people.  I am also glad to
state that we have a Young Men's meeting
in course of progress by which both young
and old hope to be benefitted. The follow-
ing are the names of those who were cho-
sen to act as officers of the young ladies' or-
ganization:
	President, Mrs. Hattie Higginson; Vice
President, Mrs. Mary Dodds; Counselors,
Mrs. C. Higginson, Mrs. Louisa Taylor, Mrs.
Mary Wilson, and Miss Nancy Thomas;
Treasurer, Miss Emma Stanfield; Superin-
tendent of Secretaries, Mrs. M. A. Till;
Presiding Secretary, Miss Florrila Cook;
Assistant Secy's., Misses', Rosella McKee,
Sarah Jane Thomas, Lizzie Jaird, Emma
Morgan, Lizzie Jenkins; Superintendent,
Mrs. Mary Johnson.
	Our resolutions are as follows:
	1st. Resolved, That each member take an
active part in said meetings such as in read-
ing, writing essays, or uniting in prayer for
the mutual instruction and benefit of the
whole.
	2nd. Resolved, That we set an example
worthy of imitation in dressing becomingly,
and not follow after the foolish fashions of
teh world, and to show by engaging only
in the best and most approved styles of
dancing, a wish to reform in everything as
soon as possible.
	3rd. Resolved, That we are expected to 
keep the "Word of Wisdom" in every
sense, and abstain from hot and strong
drinks and everything injurious to the sys-
tem.
	4th. Resolved, That we consider it our
duty as members, to attend Sabbath and
Fast Day Meetings, Sunday Schools and
other like assemblies for mutual improve-
ment.
	5th. Resolved, That we will be more re-
served in our actions and conversation
and not indulge in loud laughter or disor-
derly behavior in meeting or social gath-
erings, we also agree to keep good hours,
and cultivate the spirit of charity, and not
speak lightly of each other, or of sacred
things.
	6th. Resolved, That we maintain our
dignity as young ladies, thereby influencing
the young men to refrain from their loose
habits, and induce them to cultivate good
language, and manners that we may not
feel ashamed of their society.
	It was deemed wisdom that the senior
sisters hold positions in the Association for
a time to give the young girls a fair start,
and a chance to learn of those more expe-
rienced, but to let the meetings be wholly
the young girls.
	Ever desiring the prosperity of Zion, I
remain your sister in the bonds of love.
