			YOUNG.

	Active people are usually the most natural
and unaffected, in any point of character or
style. People who are wide awake and ener-
getic generally have ideas and manners of their
own and are not dependent upon outside in-
fluences or impressions for any advancement
or growth of intelligence. Self-help is the best
preservation against imitation. Affectation is
most frequently the result of a want of anima-
tion a lack of energy, the effect of listlessness
and indifferenee; it is always easier to adopt
the ideas and tone of another than to invest
one's self with originality, that is only copy-
ing, whereas the latter requires some inher-
ent genius; persons who are not endowed with
faculties are justifiable in adopting the style of
others. To think requires exertion, exercise of
the brain, and to think to some purpose re-
quires one to cultivate their perceptive facul-
ties and powers.
	The fool never thinks, or rarely, and then
his thoughts are only narrow and selfish.
Those who possessing the powers of mind and
body equal to all the exigencies of life allow
themselves to drift into the ideas of others and
and adopt them, without thorough and close

[Column 2]
investigation, are not worthy the respect of
their cotemporaries. Such persons are certainly
accountable if led into error, for being endow-
ed with powers of judgment, and too idle to use
them, is a grevious sin. Would it not be just
as consistent to array one's self in the garments
of another and parade them before the public,
as to take possession of their ideas and herald
them forth as the spontaneous growth of one's
own fertile brain. Such people merge their
own individuality into that of the person whose
cloak they assume, and having no self-respect,
therefore command no respect from others.
	All who would have an honorable name and
an influence of any lasting good, should re-
spect themselves sufficiently to act unaffect-
edly on all occasions, and to express them-
selves only upon those subjects with which they
are thoroughly acquainted by careful study
and observation.
	To play one's own part in the great drama of
life, is not only more commendable and praise-
worthy, but more truly beneficial to one's self,
than to idle away one's time in copying the
manners and imitating the style of another,
while the character to be represented lies idle
and the duty of sustaining it devolves upon
another. Truth is substantially the same, but
one must understand it to be truth from all re-
liable sources of information, otherwise one is
as likely to accept error as truth, taken upon
the testimony of another. All persons who
have arrived at the age of understanding
should be able to give "a reason for the hope
that is within them" else they are likely to be
deceived, for let those in whom they trust and
whose opinions they hold sacred, become dark
or as abstruse in their system of thinking, then
they too fall into darkness. But let each one
be assured for themselves and they will stand
or fall for themselves.
	All who possess true dignity of character will
act in accordance with their own convictions,
or guided by the spirit of God, independent of
those whose attributes they may justly admire.
Affectation is in itself disgusting to every per-
son of refined taste or cultivated mind. If any
person thinks they can ever attain any emi-
nence social or exclusive, without diligence or
application they are mistaken.
	Some people seem to look upon others and
wish the knowledge and attainments they
have gained could be bestowed upon them by
enchantment; but to gain the prize, one must
practise self-denial and apply themselves
closely to the achievement of the fixed purpose.
There are persons who are perhaps looked upon
as idlers who work harder than the day-labor-
er; brain work is the most engrossing of all
work. You may hear the plowman singing as
he drives the plow the carpenter whistle as he
shoves the plane, but the Dr. the lawyer, the
lecturer, the manager of business etc. must
keep silence and think. Many people imagine
one's thoughts spring up spontaneously like
mushrooms in certain productive soils, and
that it is as easy to preach, and write as to per-
form manual labor adapted to the person's
physical strength; but let those who judge thus
become familiar with profound thinkers, elo-
quent preachers and brilliant writers, and see
whether there are not hours of abstraction and
nights of sleeplessness. They will discover
what it would be well for such persons to know,
that the highest prizes are hardest won; and
the greatest victories are not to be obtained by
the cowardly and shrinking. It is easier to fol-
low than to lead, it is far easier to follow along
the beaten path that another has cut by their
courage and skill; but to mark out one's own
way, in spite of custom, fearless of [-]eers, or
criticisms or even sarcasm, is worthy a hero.


It is true of some people, that to affect others
is their nature, for they have no standard of
their own, apart from their surroundings and
the people about them, or the imaginations
and phantasies they construct from the authors
they read. They can readily change their
model, but can never be themselves. They
have no originality and cultivate no strength
of character to aid them, but are liable to be
drifted about hither and thither the victims of
circumstances, or at the will of a stronger
mind.


