LESSON II
Work and Business
(Second Week in January)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JANUARY
CIVIC PRIDE
Street and Side-Walk Cleaning in Winter
With a view of improving the appearance and conditions of homes, yards and communities, the subject of "Civic Pride" will be discussed in the Teachers' Department, 1927. In addition to the discussion of the topic, it is suggested that there be each month definite follow-up work in the nature of a campaign. The Relief Society might take the initiative in interesting City Officials, Commercial Clubs, Merchants, Boy Scouts, BeeHive Girls, Seagull Girls and others in the interest of Civic Improvement. I. Removal of snow and ice as health precaution. (a) Wet feet for children and adults often result in illness. Result in serious accidents, many of which are permanent or fatal.. MILNER DAM Ethel Allen Kilgore O Cliff, thou rais'st thy lofty height Above the water's brink, And watchest creatures wild at night When they come down to drink. And hidest in thy craggy walls, The timid rock-folk, shy, And nest the birds, whose cheery calls Enhance each passer-by. (b) Slippery steps, porches, yard-walks and sidewalks often LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January) RICHARD BURTON In Richard Burton's collection of poems we find a poem of six lines called "The Human Touch." This poem is a very great favorite with those who read Richard Burton; yet it seems to us that it is more than a very appealing poem, it is an indication of the road Mr. Burton travels. He talks about the things that people are ordinarily led to think about. He uses the facts that are part of the background of many people, adding that touch of romance which is part of the poetic gift. Richard Eugene Burton was born in Hartford, Connecticut, March 14, 1861. To many people he is known first and foremost as a professor of English, for he has been on the faculty of various colleges and universities since 1888. He has served the University of Minnesota as head of the department of English since 1906. During the 38 years of his service in American colleges, literally thousands of students have come under his tuition. For many years he has been one of the most popular teachers of English in the United States, as well as one of the best critics of English literature. During the Summer months he has been sought by universities far and wide for special lectures. Hundreds of students in the University of Chicago and hundreds more at the Chatauqua assemblies in New York have listened to his inspiring lectures on poets. And poetry.. His first book Dumb in June, was published in 1895; Lyrics of Brotherhood, in 1899; Messages and Melody, in 1903; From the Book of Life, in 1909; and Poems of Earth's Meaning, in 1917. In his Lyrics of Brotherhood he reflects the call of the dumb and defeated multitudes, to employ the language of Mr. Untermeyer.. Richard Burton has written a group of very pretty love songs. We include here "The Human Touch." THE Human Touch High thoughts and noble in all lands Help me; my soul is fed by such. But ah, the touch of lips and hands,? The human touch! Warm, vital, close, life's symbols dear,? These need I most, and now, and here. In line with such a poem as "The Human Touch" is "Old Songs," "Old Songs" carries its own message. It needs no explanation. It revives memories of the past.: 
 OLp Soncs There is many a simple song one hears, To an outworn tune, that starts the tears; Not for itselfi?for the buried years. Perchance 'twas heard in the days of youth, When breath was buoyant and words were truth; When joys were peddled at Life's gay booth. Or maybe it sounded along a lane Where She walked with you?and now again You catch Love's cadence, Love's old sweet pain. Or else it stole through a room where lay A dear one dying, and seemed to say: "Love and death, they shall pass away." It ris?s out of the Long Ago, And that is the reason it shakes you so With pain and passion and buried woe. There is many a simple song that brings From deeps of living, on viewless wings, The tender magic of bygone things. Because of the intense interest that the world has shown in Polar exploration during the past year, and because of the achievement of the American aviator, Byrd; and also the achievements of Amundsen, who has made a trip from Europe to America which included a flight across the North Pole, we are presenting Mr. Burton's poem "The Polar Quest:" THE Polar Quest Unconquerably, men venture on the quest And seek an ocean amplitude unsailed, Cold, virgin, awful. Scorning ease and rest, And heedless of the heroes who have failed, They face the ice floes with a dauntless zest. The polar quest! Life's offer to the strong! To pass beyond the pale, to do and dare, Leaving a name that stirs us like a song, And making captive some strange Otherwhere, Though grim the conquest, and, the labor long. Forever courage kindles, faith moves forth To find the mystic floodway of the North. This is a period of time when people are intensely interested in the subject of heredity. Each individual has many strains in his nature coming from ancestors far behind him. "The Claim of Kindred" is a poem devoted to this theme:. THE CLAIM OF KINDRED I am not one, but many: murmuring through My blood I seem to hear a blended, cry, Ancestral-strong, bidding me up and do A million deeds before I come to die. Some of the voices call like organ tones Upon my soul for service that is meet; Others unman me with melodious moans Or evil invitations perilous-sweet. "Autumn Corn" will bring familiar pictures to mind. It is one of a rather large group of nature poems that Mr. Burton has given us. Because of its reference to Indians, we thought it might make particular appeal to readers of the West. AUTUMN Corn The withered autumn shocks of corn Are Indian braves, who stand a-row With wind-blown hair and look forlorn, And brood upon the long ago. Sere is their dress, and sere their mind, With tribe and totem far behind. Recently news has come to us that Utah stands first among the States of the Union in the success achieved in reducing mortality among women as the result of maternity cases. A poem entitled "The Child and the Rose" is one of the cries coming from the depths of the human heart prompted by the knowledge that many wonien have given their lives that children might be born. The saying ls very common that every time a mother gives birth to a child she approaches the "valley of the shadow," but greater knowledge resulting in better care during the prenatal period and at the birth of the child is reducing fatalities materially. Let us hope that we are approaching the time when the death of a mother will have no connection whatever with the birth of a child: THE CHILD AND THE Rose Said the child to the rose: "I would that I Might rest in a pretty garden close, To feel the wind as it brushes by, To play with every flower that grows; It must be sweet in the summertide To watch the buds as they open wide," Said the child to the rose. Said the rose to the child: "And I would be, Like you, a creature sweet and mild, Safe housed from weathers winterly, And warmed with love all undefiled; *Tis cold for sleep when the night is near, And the time till morning goes full drear." Said the rose to the child. They had their will: for the rose one day Was plucked and worn in a ballroom gay. Where the air was stifling hot,?and so It shrunk and died in the fierce, brief glow. 
 The child, a woman pinched and white, In after years, on a winter's night, Lay in the garden, took her rest, Dead, with a baby at her breast. We are concluding this lesson with Burton's poem entitled "The Modern Saint." It contrasts the religious ideals of the past with those of the present, and is a piece of Christian ideality which all Christians should seek to realize: THe Mopern SAINT No monkish garb he wears, no beads he tells, Nor is immured in walls remote from strife. But from his heart deep mercy ever wells: He looks humanely forth on human life. In place of missals or of altar dreams, He cons the passioned book of deeds and days; Striving to cast the comforting sweet beams: Of charity on dark and noisome ways. Not hedged about by sacerdotal rule, He walks a fellow of the scarred and weak. Liberal and wise his gifts; he goes to school To Justice; and he turns the other cheek. He looks not holy; simple is his belief; His creed for mystic visions do not scan; His face shows lines cut there by others' grief And in his'eyes is love of brother-man. Not self, nor self-salvation, is his care; He yearns to make the world a sunnier clime To live in; and his mission everywhere Is strangely like to Christ's in olden time. No medieval mystery, no crowned, Dim figure, halo-ringed, uncanny bright. A modern saint: a man who treads earth's ground And ministers to me with all his might. You will discover that Burton's poems are written in the main to convey a message, and are not primarily of worth because they present to our senses that which is beautiful. Of course, there is much that is beautiful in these poems, for it is the author's purpose to present his ideas and feelings in such form as shall be worthy a poet. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Mention as many old songs as you can think of that "start the tears. Have some old songs sung at this session. 2. Discuss the subject of heredity in connection with Mr. Burton's treatment of it. 3. Prove that "heedless of the heroes who have failed" explorers have pressed on to the North Pole. 4. Do you think the comparison between the Indian and the corn is apt, if so, why? What portrait is given us in "The Modern Saint?" 6. Select the concrete particulars that go to make up this portrait.