LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall, Saturday, July 30, 1898, President
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “Lord we
come before Thee now.” Prayer by Clara
Cannon. Singing “How firm a founda-
tion.”
	President Horne knew the benefit of
these meetings. It was here where our
spirits were refreshed and we were fed.
Spoke of how easily was the Spirit of God
grieved. Many times it was driven away
from us by fretting and worrying. How-
ever, God knew our weaknesses and would
be merciful to us if we tried to overcome
them. Spoke of the difficulties the people
had to overcome who settled Utah, and
compared those days to the ones we enjoy
now. Said our young people knew noth-
ing of these trials. God had said He would
have a tried people, therefore we should ac-
knowledge His hand in all things. Spoke
of the war and knew the hand of the Lord
was in it. Did not feel like prolonging her
remarks as there was business of impor-
tance to transact concerning our excursion
on Monday next.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said she had been
thinking of the remarks of President Wood-
ruff at the time of the Temple excursion to
Brigham City, wherein he said the angel
of destruction had gone forth. Thought
this had been literally fulfilled. Spoke on
tithing and referred to a piece in the Deseret

[Column 2]
News on the subject of tithing, wherein it
said that paying tithing was better than a
bank account. Spoke of the advantage of
making homes in Arizona as there was
every advantage there for doing so.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the advantage
these meetings were to her. She never
liked to hear any one spoken ill of. Re-
cited a very nice piece of poetry about
speaking against any one.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder spoke of her ab-
sence from these meetings, she had been off
traveling in the interest of the work. Spoke
of the different organizations which she had
attended. During her travels she was sur-
prised and made glad to see the abundance
of the wheat fields, everything was pro-
gressing and the Saints were all trying to
live their religion. She was gone three
weeks and had a very enjoyable time.
Said as they drove through the abundant
harvest fields Brother Grant made the re-
mark that he wished President Woodruff
could see this, that it would fill his heart
with joy.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde proceeded to give a
description of their recent trip to Bingham
in organizing the Society. Said it was a
peculiar place and most of them were
young women who had married outsiders,
but these women were full of faith and their
husbands were generous in allowing them
every privilege in attending their meetings,
was reminded of the saying of the Savior,
“Be ye not unevenly yoked together.”
Thought Sister Horne was a perfect marvel
the way she was buoyed up to stand the
traveling that she did. It proved to her
that the Lord was willing to sustain those
who spent their time in his service.
	Sisters Barton and Wilcox related some
very interesting circumstances and bore
very strong testimonies.
	Remarks were made by Sister M. O.
Brown.
	President Mary A. Hyde said she loved
the communion of Saints, this was a privi-
lege that was promised her many years
ago. Felt we had many testimonies of the
Lord touching the hearts of the people of
the world towards our missionaries who
were out in the world. Gave an instance
of how one of our young men was taken
care of who was sick. She then spoke in
tongues but it was not interpreted.
	The business of the meeting was then at-
tended to. Singing, Doxology. Benedic-
tion by Sister Julia C. Howe.
