				ZINA H. BULL, Sec.

	Minutes of Ladies Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th ward Assembly hall, Aug-
ust 13, 1898, President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing “Arise O,
glorious Zion.” Prayer by Sister Julia C.
Howe. Continued by singing “Let those
who would be Saints indeed.” The secre-
tary not being present Sister Alder was
called upon to act in this capacity. Minutes
of last meeting read and approved.
	President Horne spoke of those who met
in these meetings. Said that Jesus said
those who meet often together, a record of
them should be kept, and when He came
they should be His jewels. He also spoke
in parables. Referred to the sower who
went forth to sow, some seed fell in stray
ground, some where there was not moisture,
therefore it could not germinate, only some
grew to perfect fruit. Ancient Israel once
fell away from the Lord and Saul went to
the Witch of Endor to get the word of

[Column 3]
the Lord. He could not get it by dreams
or visions or Urim and Thummim, because
they had drifted so far away from God. “I
know how President Woodruff feels about
running after the things of the world. The
children of God all have their agency, He
does not take it away from them, neither
do his servants. How grievous is the sin
among us of Sabbath breaking, running
after pleasure and the vain things of the
world. I am thankful that my heart was
opened to receive the Gospel when it came
to me, and it is a pleasure to me now.
How comforting the still small voice which
testifies that we are approved of by our
Father in heaven! God pours out His spirit
upon all the world but it all belongs to us,
and is from His hand. All the great in-
ventions are from and by Him, and are for
the benefit of His Saints. Sisters your
labor is among your own circle. God de-
sires us to be satisfied with His Gospel and
labor among His people.” Spoke of Sister
Jannette Morris who often spoke in our
meetings. “But her voice is silent now,
and she has gone Beyond to receive her re-
ward. She was a good woman, and I al-
ways felt that she was a congenial spirit
and we miss her. But life hereafter will be
glorious for her. Let us heed the whisper-
ings of the Spirit, commit our loved ones in-
to His care and thank Him for all bless-
ings.” Alluded to our fast meetings and
offerings, tithing and every other thing that
the Lord calls upon us to do. “Let us be
among the willing workers, that our names
may be in His book of remembrance.”
	Sister Butterworth said she often felt that
she would not be afraid to have her record
read from the house tops. Related a dream
which had been a comfort to her, desired to
endure to the end.
	Sister Hannah Wright was thankful that
she was chosen to be a savior of her fath-
er’s household. Bore a strong testimony
of the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Waterfall said she was thankful
that she should stand at the head of her
family. We have set out to gain the same
prize. May we be faithful.
	Sister Seabeck also bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon desired to bear
her testimony to the goodenss of God to
her, the only one of her father’s house to
embrace the Gospel. We can pray for and
encourage our friends who are weak in the
faith, not murmur, for that will grieve the
Spirit. May we keep our eyes upon the
mark of our high calling.
	The sisters sang “Glorious things are
sung of Zion.”
	Sister Julia Jones bore her testimony.
Knew that God had blessed her in her old
age. Desired to be faithful to the end.
	Sister M. E. Taylor felt built up to hear
her sisters bear their testimonies. Hoped
she would be faithful to the end.
	President Horne said she received a note,
it was sent to her come up to Bingham.
Said some of our sisters were married to
outsiders. A young mother had lost her
baby just before they went up there, she
desired a Mormon funeral but her husband
would not allow it, but had a Gentile offi-
ciate. Some of them allowed their wives
to go to meeting and to the Relief Society,
but some are bitter. “Mothers have we
done our duty in rearing our children?
Have we instructed them aright? In an-
cient Israel the Lord commanded the peo-
ple to purify themselves, and put away


their wives who were not of Israel. We
come upon earth to get these tabernacles
for our spirits to dwell in, let us keep them
pure, let us renew our covenants with the
Almighty.
	Sister Marks bore her testimony. She
was thankful that she was a member of the
Church of God, desired to work for the
living and the dead.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson desired that all
the sisters in Salt Lake could hear the in-
structions given here today. Spoke of her
visit to Morgan Stake and testified of the
faithfulness of the sisters there. Spoke
against the waste of the sisters in many
instances, while others were lacking for
needful things. Mentioned the bounteous
harvest and urged the sisters to economize
and not go into debt.
	Jannette Carrington bore her testimony.
Desired to live to do her duty.
	Sister Hardy felt blessed that we had
aged sisters to instruct us, said Sister Eliza
R. Snow said, “Woe to those sisters who
are at ease in Zion.”  Every day we make
our record, and may it be a good one.”
Made other eloquent remarks.
	Sister Margaret P. Young bore her testi-
mony that this work was true. Her par-
ents had a beautiful home near Philadel-
phia, but when the Gospel came they left
all and gathered with the Saints. “I knew
it was true or I would not have done it. I
pray the young people will listen and heed,
God’s spirit is among a very few, and I
pray that the young people may observe
the word of God.
	Sister Rawlings desired to acknowledge
the goodness of God to her, desired to be
useful in this Church. Prayed God to
bless our aged sisters that they might live
long to give us instructions.
	Sister Cornell said if she ever wanted to
get a great blessing she had to fast for it.
Spoke of the youth of Zion, prayed for wis-
dom and God’s holy spirit. Sister Wilcken
had a testimony to bear,for God had blessed
her many times. Prayed that our aged
sisters might be spared long to teach and
instruct us.
	Closing remarks by President Horne. “I
thank the sisters for their prayers in my
behalf, and I feel that God hears them.”
Spoke of the visit of herself and aids to the
11th ward to select a counselor to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of Sister Mor-
ris. There not being enough sisters pres-
ent, the business was postponed until next
month. Also reported the excursion to
Saltair, said we had not made as much as
we should, but felt to thank the sisters for
attending and helping to make a good time.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks; gave
out conference notice, it will convene in
three weeks. Closed by singing Doxology.
Benediction Counselor E. L. Webb. 
		LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


