INDUSTRIES.

	In view of the momentous questions now
pending one cannot help wondering if the
women of this State are aware of the great
opportunity open before them in having
equal suffrage. Do they realize the re-
sponsibility for good or ill that this precious
boon has given them? They are undoubt-
edly half the voting population of the entire
State; were they to unite on any proposi-
tion they could carry it, there is not a doubt.
As soon as anything goes wrong it is
noticable how quick people are ready to say
“the women did it.” Therefore it would
seem “the women” must study carefully
the questions of the day, and particularly
the needs of their own locality, and the new
conditions that have come through state-
hood, and its relations to the general
government under which they live and of
which the people profess to be so proud.
There are many problems confronting the
people today and they must be taken
seriously. Women have the ballot in these
intermountain states and the women in
other parts of the Republic, not so highly
favored, expect something of this privi-
lege granted to a few. Something that
will help them; a brilliant example of
superior wisdom in dealing with important
matters; we in Utah are being watched in
the course we pursue with this great gift
bestowed upon us; we are like a light set
on a hill, to give light to those around,
therefore the women of Utah must take
heed to their ways, and should make a rec-
ord now in this coming campaign that they
will be proud of, and that will help woman-
kind everywhere the world over.
	There is always counsel to be obtained
for those who are at sea upon subjects that
seem doubtful, and the scripture tells us,
“Where there is no counsel the people fall;
but in the multitude of counselors there is
safety.” Those who have labored for
years to secure the ballot and equal rights
for women are not likely to rest satisfied,
when their claims to recognition are not
conceded, and will by such methods as
seem proper and available declare their
equality in matters that pertain to their
welfare as citizens.
	Men have so long held supremacy in the
political world that it is perhaps difficult for
them to allow woman her share, and even
a very small proportion appears to be given
grudgingly, and where common courtesy
would suggest at least a semblance of will-

[Column 2]
ingness to do her justice even that has been
found wanting in certain places. Some
men seem to forget that women helped to
found this State, that for a number of years
they had the ballot, and that those who
took part in primaries and conventions in
those days learned a few lessons in regard
to the manipulation of matters of public
weal.
	Another day has dawned on Utah and
under different circumstances, and women
have been entrusted with sacred rights and
privileges in the matter of government,
and it is their imperative duty to perform
their part well that no blame shall attach to
them through blundering at a time when
the well-being and prosperity of the com-
munity is at stake.
	One of the most important considerations
in the coming campaign is and should be
the fostering of and protecting home indus-
tries upon which the future of the people
and the State itself depends. Women can-
not afford to ignore this question, it lies
near their hearts. Homes and happiness,
all that makes life sweet rests upon the de-
velopment of that which is within our own
borders. The Lord has given this wonder-
ful land to the people within its boundaries
to make fertile and bring forth from its
soil an abundance for themselves and their
children, and they should not trifle with
such benefits. By dint of labor, economy
and thrift some industries have been estab
lished that still need the fostering care of
the State, others need to be founded to pro-
mote still greater prosperity and give more
opportunities for labor and profit. One
which appeals most direct to the women of
Utah is the silk industry, and too much
cannot be said on the subject nor the en-
couragement of it too strongly urged. Agi-
tate it everywhere until the people awaken
to its importance sufficiently to comprehend
the bearing it would have upon the pros-
perity of the country. Here and there and
at different times women have made persis-
tent efforts, and worked against obstacles
that seemed insurmountable, and have
proven what a united effort could accom-
plish with some protection and necessary
aid, but now with the ballot in their own
hands, and the coast clear, to elect men and
women to places of trust who will consider
home industries, the paramount issue for
Utah, what can be said if they fail? How
will they condemn their own course if they
ignore this weighty matter upon which so
much depends of labor and help for the
many idle hands, who must have food and
raiment and habitations to dwell in.


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS ABOUT WAR AND
