SUSANNAH VANCE.
	Died of appendicitis at Mesa City, July 10, 1898,
after three days illness, Sister Susannah Vance,
wife of James Vance Sr, and daughter of Jerome
M. and Mary Rhodes Benson. Deceased was
born Feb. 8, 1833, near Independence, Jackson
Co., Mo. Born in the Church at so early a period
she passed through every principal evolution o
Church experience from the time of her birth un-
til the day of her death.
	She came to Utah in 1850, was married to her
husband, James Vance, in 1855, with whom she
shared in the pri[-]ations and toils of Utah’s early
pioneers, and to whom she bore a family of
twelve children, and lived to see one son return
from an honorable mission, while another son
and grandson are still in the mission field and as
stated by her Bishop and each who spoke at her
funeral, Sister Vance was a live member of the
Church, was faithlul to every duty and calling.
From age, experience and good works she has
gone to her rest as a veteran in the Church of
God, leaving a veteran husband with four living
children and very many grandchildren to bear
her name in honor and blessing through genera-
tions of time.
	As a worker in the St. George Temple she was
among the first called after its dedication, and
she faithfully labored in that calling until 1882,
the period of their migration to Arizona. On
her arrival in Arizona with her famil[-] she joined
the Relief Society and at her death was president
of the teachers in the Alma ward. She was a
faithful member attending to every duty devolv-
ing upon her, and always on hand to help to re-
lieve the sick or those in distress. Sister Vance
came up with her husband last year and attended
the Jubilee, and seemed to enjoy the visit very
much.
	A large cortege of loving kindred and friends
followed her remains to the grave to await a re-
union of loved one in that sweet bye and bye.
		ANNIE KLEINMAN, President,
		HENRIETTA STANDAGE, Counselor, 
		MELISSA HUNSAKER, Secretary.
	Mesa City, August 16, 1898.
SARAH LAKER COOK.
	We feel it our duty, painful though it be, to
make mention of the death of Sister Sarah Laker
Cook, wife of Alonzo Cook, which occured at her
home in Swan Creek, Utah, July 5, after an illness
of eleven days. The immediate cause of her
death was pronounced hemorrage of the brain.
Her sufferings were very great, but during her
sickness as through her entire life she exe cised
the most extraordinary faith in the power of the
Priesthood. Since her early childhood she has
been a consistent, conscientious Latter-day Saint
and her devotion to her religion was unbounded.
She has held several prominent positions in the
Young Ladies Association and other organiza-
izations in the ward where she has resided, and
at the time of her death was a prominent
teacher in the Sabbath School and Religion Class
besides holding the position of counselor to
Stake President Annie Laker of the Primary
Association of Bear Lake. Her greatest pleasure
in life was to labor among the children whom she
devotedly loved. She has borne seven children,
four of whom survive her, and they with the sor-
rowing husband and parents are made to feel the
truth of the words,
		Death rides on every passing breeze,
		And lurks in every flower.
	There were over forty carriages in the funeral
procession and the floral offerings were profuse
and beautiful. It was especially fitting that the
Primary children of the neighboring towns came
with their flowers and in the most perfect order
marched silently and sadly and placed them on
the coffin of her who had known and loved them
in life. May we all so live that when the death
summons comes our welcome will be as Campbel
so beautifully says,

“Soon may this fluttering spark of vital flame
Forsake its languid, melancholy frame!
Soon may these eyes their trembling lustre close
Welcome the dreamless night of long repose!
Soon may this woe-worn spirit seek the bourne
Where lulled to slumber,grief forgets to mourn”
								LURLINE.
St. Charles, Idaho.
BERTHA PETERSON SWENSON.
	On Sunday, June 26, 1898, Sister Bertha Peter-
son Swenson departed this life.


Sister Swenson was born June 14, 1841, at Wal-
by, Sweden	She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, March 2
1856, and emigrated to Utah in 1857. She was the
mother of twe ve children, nine of whom still sur-
vive her, and are all good Latter-day Saints who
with her husband, August Swenson, lament the
death of a loving wife and a kind and gentle
mother.
	Sister Swenson was a faithful, consistent Latter-
day Saint, unassuming and always attending to
her duties in the season thereof. She has been a
teacher in the Relief Society ever since its first
organization in Spanish Fork, which was forty
years ago, until she resigned on account of ill
health. Her death was calm and peaceful; she
felt no pain but was so sleepy.
	To all those who sleep in Jesus, death is sweet 
and has no sting.

		“God hath gathered home her spirit,
			God hath taken what He gave,
		Friend and sister sweetly slumber,
			In the quiet, peaceful grave.

		At the resurrection morning
			We shall all appear as one,
		O, what robes of bright adorning
			Will the righteous then put on.”

