PUEBLO BRANCH, COLORADO MISSION.	
	Report of a special meeting called by
Apostle John W. Taylor, Sunday, July 3,
1898. We had Apostle Taylor and Sister
Susa Young Gates with us. They came to
organize a Relief Society in the Pueblo
branch of the Colorado mission of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Gates met in the morning with the
Sunday School and spoke one hour to the
leaders and members on their duties. At
2 p. m. we again met in the capacity of a
faith meeting and listened to the testimo-
nies of the Saints. Elders Ensign and Gra-
ham rendered some good music. Apostle
Taylor announced a meeting for the sisters
at 6 p. m., for the purpose of organizing a
Relief Society.
	The meeting was called to order by Sis-
ter Susa Y. Gates. Singing. Prayer by
Sister Emma Simmons. Singing. Sister
Gates spoke at some length upon the duties
of the president and other officers and mem-
bers of the Relief Society. The officers
were put before the meeting as follows:
Sister Elizabeth Hart, president; Sisters
Amanda Coleman and Emma Simmons,
counselors; Sister Ella Branch, secretary;
Sister Johnson, treasurer. They were all
sustained in their respective positions.
They were set apart by Apostle Taylor,
Elders H. S. Ensign and F. C. Graham.
	There were present of the sisters Eliza-
beth Hart, Amanda Coleman, Emma Sim-
mons, Ella Branch, Sister Johnson, Della
Cummings, Elizabeth Cummings, Frozey
Cummings, Sister F. Branch, Sister Sum-
merell and Sister Porter.
	There were present Elders from Utah
Apostle Taylor, Elders H. S. Ensign, F.
C. Graham, Ray Fairbanks, Zeb Colton,
David F. Smith. Local Elders, J. I. Hart,
W. O. Cummings, H. E. Cummings and
J. D. Simmons.
	The meeitng was then given into the
hands of Sister Hart who spoke at some
length. Benediction by Counselor Coleman.
	At 7:30 p. m. meeting was called to
order by President J. P. Hart. Singing.
Prayer by Elder D. F. Smith. Singing.
Apostle Taylor then introduced Sister
Gates as the speaker. She occupied the
time in speaking upon the belief and life of
the Latter-day Saints. Apostle Taylor
then spoke at some length upon the pro-
gress of the work of the Lord in this part
of the vineyard, and prophecied that the
time was near at hand when there would
be branches of the Church from Pueblo to
Jackson Co., Mo., and that many in the
room would live to see the roads lined with
people on their way to the Temple in Jack-
son County. He also gave some good
counsel. Benediction by Elder F. C. Gra-
ham.
