WE MOTHERS.

II.
	Where are the boys when the Curfew
rings? Some of the children who should
be in bed a few moments after the sounding
of the curfew, steal out of somewhere and

[Column 2]
go prowling about, as if there could be
pleasure in doing wrong by breaking a law.
	Where are the mothers of such children?
Is it possible that any mother can be so
tired as to go to bed and to sleep while her
child is out in the world, she knows not
where, when he should be safely tucked in
bed ere she retired to her rest? There is a
way some mothers have of getting their
children to come home when they do not
know where to look for them, or are unable
to go in search of them.
	The mother prays that the good angel
attendant upon her child may direct him
home, and in a very short time the child is
with her. She cannot scold him then.
She is too thankful to her Father to allow
herself to find fault with His child and her
own. Instead of reproaches she gives the
child her confidence. Tells him how she 
has been praying for him to be reminded
by his guardian angel that he ought to be
at home. Tells him, tearfully perhaps, of
the anxiety she has felt for him and asks
him pathetically if he will not try in future
not to make her feel so worried and unhap-
py. He promises solemnly that he will try
to make her feel happy instead of miserable.
He does try for a long time after that to
keep his promise, and succeeds wonderfully
well. But after a while he forgets or is too
strongly tempted, and he stays out too late
again.
	This time the mother goes and hunts him
up. Finding him in the company of sever-
al others who ought like her own son to be
home, she does not humiliate and antagon-
ize him by telling him before his play-
fellows what an ungrateful, naughty boy
he is getting to be; or give the rebellious
“enemy of his soul” an occasion to nab
him and cause him to fling back vicious
words at her, for commanding him to
“Take himself home at once!” She stands
by a moment, watching the game if it is
continued, or listens if any one speaks;
then tells the group what o’clock it is, and
asks her son to say good night to his com-
rades and go home with her. He hesitates
but a moment, and then cheerfully com-
plies with his mother’s request. On the
way home the mother and son counsel
together; deeper impressions are fixed upon
the boy’s mind than formerly; he makes
more binding promises than before, to be
still longer and more conscientiously kept.
	A few such lessons suffice to keep the
boy at least within the purview of the
mother’s knowledge, until he reaches a
stage of self control, or self responsibility,
which relieves her in a measure of the
greater responsibility she has hitherto felt
the weight of too keenly for her own com-
fort. We mothers get paid for watching
our boys and praying for them, if we get
paid for anything we undertake in life.
	Is there another subject upon which we
can exchange ideas, opinions and experi-
ences with so much interest and profit as
the rearing of our children? What if we
do have (what our mothers had not) the
benefits of the Kindergarten, Sunday School,
Primary and Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation? Our children should still pass a
portion of their time, perhaps a half of it,
other than when they are asleep, at home
with their mothers.
	And we mothers, if love does not prompt
us to see to it that the time our children
spend with us is as pleasantly and usefully
spent as any other portion of their lives, a
sense of duty should urge us on to exerting

[Column 3]
ourselves to the end that we shall be the 
most suitable companions that our children
can find.
	We need not be always correcting or
even instructing our children when they
are in our presence, in order to prove our-
selves capable mothers. At least, much
that may be necessary for us to say to
them, or require of them, need not be of-
fered in the form of reproof or instruction.
We may often play, sing, talk, read and
laugh with our little ones, and find delight-
ful and healthful amusement in these
things, for ourselves as well as for them.
And some amusement is necessary for all.
	No class of beings in the world need
more to keep what God loves, “cheerful
hearts and glad countenances,” than do we
mothers.
