REFLECTIONS OF M. E. K. 
	I desire to ask a simple question of those
who believe that Joseph Smith was a true
prophet of God, not only believe but have
a knowledge that his message was an im-
portant one, because it teaches that earnest-
ness of soul and sincerity of heart is re-
quired of us to see this subject in its own
true light; for the Lord will give His spirit
to those who ardently desire to do His will.
Then we can know God by the spirit of
God, without it we cannot because we are
so much contaminated by the spirit of the
lower world and we are required to cleanse
our hearts and make them fit temples for
this good spirit. Good common sense will
teach us this lesson, for the word of God
through His Apostle Peter is, “Be ye pure
for I am pure; be ye holy for I am holy.”
And as He does not look upon sin with the
least degree of allowance we must be pure
before we approach Him; then we can
come to Him in a simple, childlike manner
for this is as he requires us to come. Then
He will be a father in very deed, yes, to
our hearts content. As you will find in
the book of Alma, chapter 32, Book of Mor-
mon, where He compares the word with a
seed and says, “Let this seed be planted in
your hearts, if ye do not cast it out by your
unbelief behold it beginneth to swell and
as ye feel these swelling emotions ye begin
to say it must be a good seed for it begin-
neth to enlarge my soul and enlighten my
understanding, yea it is delicious to me.
Now does not this increase your faith?
Yea, yet it has not grown up to be a per-
fect knowledge. And now behold ye
know it is a good seed, for every seed bring-
eth forth its own likeness. Now you must
not lay aside your faith for ye have only exer-
cised your faith to plant the seed to know
if it is good. Now if ye will nourish it
with much care it will get root and grow
up and bring forth the fruit. But if ye neg-
lect the tree behold when the sun cometh
and scattereth it because it hath no root, it
withers away and ye cast it out.
	“Now this was not because the seed was
not good, neither is it because the fruit
thereof is not desirable, but it is because
your ground is barren, and ye will not
nourish the tree, therefore ye cannot have
the fruit thereof. And thus if ye will not
nourish the word, looking forward with an
eye of faith to the fruit thereof ye can never


pluck of the fruit of the tree of life. But if
ye will nourish the word, yea nourish the
tree as it beginneth to grow by your faith
with great diligence and patience, looking
forward to the fruit thereof, it shall take
root, and behold it shall be a tree, spring-
ing up into everlasting life. And because
of your diligence and faith and your pati-
ence with the word in nourishing it that it
may take root in you, behold by and by ye
shall pluck the fruit thereof which is most
precious, which is sweet above all that is
sweet and which is white above all that is
white, yea and pure above all that is pure;
and ye shall feast upon this fruit even until
ye are filled that ye hunger not, neither
shall ye thirst Then my brethren ye shall
reap the reward of your faith, your diligence,
your patience and long suffering waiting
for the tree to bring forth fruit unto you.”
	This closes the chapter written by Alma,
who was the son of Alma and at one time a
bad boy until an angel appeared to him
saying, “If you will destroy yourself seek
not to destroy the church of God.” This
put a stop to his wilful career as it did St.
Paul’s, he then sought righteousness and
also taught it to others. We read in chap-
ter 60 of the same book the words of Moro-
ni, the Captain of the army: “Behold I am
Moroni your chief captain. I seek not
power, but to pull it down; I seek not for
the honor of the world, but the glory of my
God and the freedom of my country.”
	Now is not this the same spirit which
prompts the war today? And behold how
long that war lasted. Please read this
chapter, we will find the Book of Mormon
a benefit at this time. It was not kept in
vain, it is the lesson we greatly need at the
present time. This sacred relic is not
properly appreciated by our people at the
present time, and I think the reason is that
we accepted the Gospel because it was the
teaching of Christ, exactly as He taught it
when He was in His mortal state, it being
the same which purified and sanctified His
disciples until they could do the same
things that He did both in healing the sick
arid raising the dead. Accordingly if a
people must be found to arise and meet
Him exactly of this character when He
comes to reign King of kings and Lord of
lords, it must be through the same rule of
action which purified and sanctified them or
we will not be the same character that
they are. And you know He said, “Ex-
cept ye are one ye are not mine.”
	How important, then that we give strict
heed to His words that we may be one
with those whom He brings with Him, and
who will live one thousand years without
knowing of sickness or death or the sor-
rows of this life. I for one greatly desire
to live again with Him in the Millenium.
I shall take my long sleep, but hope to
hear the trumpet of God when it sounds to
awake all who are worthy to come forth
and arise to meet them at this great and
glorious event.
	But let us read the Book of Mormon as a
friend of mine told me to read it, asking
God our Father every time he took it up to
read, “Is this truth or is it fiction?”
While reading he got a testimony for him-
self that it was correctly written, exactly as
things transpired at that time. Now this
is easy and the best way is it not? And
now is the time we need this intelligence,
and it seems to be kept expressly for this
generation. Let us improve the time, for
this life is short at best.—July 22, 1898.


