PEACE.

	The war is over practically so the word
goes forth over the wires, through the
press dispatches, and from ocean to ocean
the good news flashes. If only all wars
were over, all fighting and bloodshed and
conflicts ended or a bright prospect of such
a time in the near future, then indeed there
would be cause for rejoicing; but while the
terrible consequences of war are so apparent
there cannot be much real gladness, and it
will be long before the country settles down
again to its former quietude and men who
took part in the affairs resume their every
day work in life. Many never can take
the same places, because disabled either
through wounds or the effects of exposure

[Column 2]
or serious illness. And still others have
gone to an untimely grave, and yielded up
willingly their lives for their country’s
honor, and the cause of liberty for human-
ity. O, that there were some better way to
lift the down-trodden and let the oppressed
go free!
	Must it always be by the sacrifice of
human life, that nations rise to greater
things, to liberty, and the higher enlighten-
ment? Let us hope that men may find a
better way, that by the light that has come
into the world a firmer bond of brother-
hood may yet be established, and even
nations as well as individuals come to the
understanding and practice of “the golden
rule” our Savior left for all to follow.
When the time shall come which Emerson
voices, then indeed happiness may largely
be achieved.

“Be just at home; then write your scroll
	Of honor o’er the sea,
And bid the broad Atlantic roll,
	A ferry of the free.”

	Everything has had to wait while the
war went on; and now more battleships are
to be built and greater preparations made
for wars to come instead of looking forward
to a reign of peace. Money must conse-
quently be appropriated and the country
must be taxed to pay interest on bonds.
	The outlook is not a cheerful one except
to those who trust implicitly in an over-
ruling Providence, and look with prophetic
intuition into the future knowing He who
reigns on high will bring to pass in His
own good time all He has promised through
His servants.
	The Utah Volunteers have made a good
record with scarcely an exception. Some
have distinguished themselves nobly and
have been given higher rank, and all de-
serve appreciation and admiration from the
folks at home, for at the best it has been
hard enough. Some tales of the wounded
the suffering and hungry are very pathetic.
On the 23rd of August when the wife of
Gen. Gordon was leaving Jacksonville for
Savannah she says, “A Fernandina train
arrived and sick soldiers were crowded into
the Pulman cars,” no surgeon and no
nurses had been sent along with them, one
man died soon after the train started, anoth-
er was delirious from fever and a third in
the last stages of typhoid, developed severe
hemorrages. A physician on the train was
summoned and passangers gave up their
places in the sleeping cars to the soldiers,
who were weak and some of them nearly
famished. Mrs. Gordon obtained from the
buffet all the milk, brandy and ice and set
about nursing the prostrated soldiers; she
prepared milk punch and iced milk and
many of them revived. “The men be-
longed to Co. C. 157th. Indiana Infantry,
and were in charge of Captain Salisbury
who did everything in his power to aid
them. While the medical department of
the army fails to provide for our suffering
soldiers American women like Mrs. Gordon
come to the rescue.”
	This is only one instance but there are
many similar ones and the Relief work done
by Miss Barton and her Red Cross associates
is something that American women may
well be proud of. Our own Lieut. B. H.
Wells tells of Miss Barton’s coming among
the wounded at Santiago and with her own
hands making the gruel and beef tea and
giving it to the wounded soldiers.


