WOMAN S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	One of the noblest men who has lived
since the time of Jesus Christ is our own
great leader, Brigham Young. He and
Joseph Smith were two of the greatest
and purest characters that had lived for
years. Had it not been for Brigham
Young it is quite likely that many more of
the Saints would have been persecuted and
killed; but when he gave the word and
led the way westward, many were soon
ready to take it up and follow their glorious
and inspired leader. It was he who was in-
spired to stop in the Salt Lake valley, and
under his supervision the energetic pioneers
went to work and the land was made “to
blossom as the rose."
	Nor did he stop here, he and his people
built up a State fabric with three hundred
cities and settlements, networked with rail-
roads and the electric telegraph; then it was
that his name rang throughout America and
echoed in Europe as “the Moses of the
latter days,” and the Mormon people were
likened to the children of Israel in the
wilderness. This is a true comparison for
he led them from their persecuters and took
them into a land of promise, as Moses did

[Column 2]
the children of Israel and always gave the
praise and honor to God.
	Not only was he loyal to his God, but
he was also loyal to the government. At
his request the stars and stripes were set
waving from Ensign Peak when the
pioneers first entered the valley. He was
also ready to form the Battalion when
called upon, and a more loyal band never
fought for their country’s cause than those
under the Mormon Battalion. Although
this man was oppressed by the government
no man, I dare say, ever heard him de-
nounce it for this. Instead his desire was
for the preservation and upbuilding of his
country.
	How fitting is it that a monument has
been erected in his memory and placed in
the most prominent place in Salt Lake
City, near the place where he stuck his
staff in the ground and said: “Here shall
we build the temple of our God.” How
our little hearts thrilled as we passed this
beautitul monument and cast our flowers
as tokens of love on the pedestal amid the
cheers of the gazing multitude, during the
recent Pioneer Jubilee.
	But did our great prophet care for the
little children while he was on earth? In-
deed he did, and he was a great lover of
them too. Through the kindness of my
beloved president I had the pleasure of
reading one of his last addresses to the
children. It was delivered to the Sunday
School children in the new Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City, July 24, 1877, and it was
published in the Deseret News, August 8,
1877. It impresses one with such beauti-
ful sentiments that I should like all to
hear it, but it is too long to rewrite here.
In the first part of the sermon he explained
to them why they were born in this far off
land, then he follows with some beautiful
counsel. He told them to remember
this counsel, observe it, and carry it out
throughout their lives.
	He begins this counsel by instructing
them in regard to the first commandments,
and of the nature of the personages of God
and Jesus Christ. Then he says: “Obey
your parents and learn the ways of the
Lord in your youth, and continue therein
all the days of your life that you may be
prepared for that higher state of glory that
awaits the faithful children of our God.”
He next blessed the children and expressed
his love for them in the following words:
“I say to all, God bless you my children,
my little ones. I love you, I am a great
lover of children and innocence and purity,
and I am a hater of iniquity just as much
so as the Lord, and perhaps more than I
should be.”
	His sermon was concluded by the follow-
ing remarks: “Spend the Sabbath day
prudently in the love and fear of God. Try
to adopt in your whole lives that code of
morals which our religion teaches and
which we urge upon the people. God
bless you. Amen.”
	So how dearly should we as children of
God, love a leader who has loved and done
so much for us; for truly Brigham Young
was a wise, good and honest man.
	ELEANOR FOWLER, aged ten years.
Read at the Mill Creek ward Primary
annual meeting, June 1, 1898.


It is not enough to have great qualities;
we must also have the management of them.
—Rochefoucauld.


