SISTERS’ FIRST VISIT. 
Editor “Exponent:”
	Dear Sister:—Thinking that a few words
concerning our first visit as Stake Presi-
dency of the Relief Society in the Wood-
ruff Stake of Zion would be of interest to
the readers of the “Woman’s Exponent.” I
thought I would give a short account.
	President Lucy Grant, First Counselor
Katie Snowball, Second Counselor Alice
Jackson. We left Randolph Wednesday
morning, August 3, in company with Sis-
ter Elizabeth Brough with a full determina-
tion, with the aid and assistance of our
Heavenly Father, to fulfill the call which
had been made on us. We visit with the
sisters of the Argyle ward at 10 a. m. the
same day. We found the Association in
good running order and a general good feel-
ing existing among the sisters of that ward.
They all felt like pressing forward in the
good work they were engaged in, and felt
like giving those placed over them their
faith and prayers. After enjoying the hos-
pitality of one of the sisters of that ward we
continued our journey into Woodruff and
occupied a couple of hours of the afternoon
with the good sisters of that ward, we also
had the pleasure of having with us two of
the Stake Presidency, President John M.
Baxter and First Counselor Byron Sessions,
also Bishop Peter McKennon of the ward.

[Column 2]
We had the pleasure of hearing these breth-
ren speak, giving some excellent instruction
to the mothers of the Latter-day Saints, en-
couraging them to have a watch care over
their children and to teach them how to
grow up good and useful men and women
in the Church and kingdom of God. We re-
mained with the sisters of Woodruff ward
that night.
	Thursday morning, August 4, we held
meeting in Almy at 10 a. m. We felt de-
lighted with the kind, sisterly feeling that
existed among the sisters in the little town
of Almy. We enjoyed ourselves very
much in speaking to each other and listen-
ing to the testimonies of the sisters, relating
instances where God had poured His spirit
down upon them and their families in times
of need; and how welcome we were made
by all, we felt we had their aid and assist-
ance in our travels. We remained with the
sisters until next morning when we jour-
neyed to Evanston to meet with the sisters
there at 10 a. m., August 5. We were
greeted by the sisters of that ward with
much kindness and sisterly love, when we
met them we felt as though we had been
acquainted for years, there was such a con-
genial spirit existing. We also had the
pleasure of having present with us the
second counselor to the president of their
Stake, Charles Kingston. He rendered his
assistance to us by occupying a portion of
the time in our meeting. Spoke of the
young people of one religion marrying into
another; encouraged the sisters and moth-
ers to be very careful whom their daughters
keep company with. An excellent time
was had in that meeting. On account of
there being a meeting for the Stake officers
on Saturday, August 6, at 11 a m., we re-
mained in Evanston that night and went
and took supper, which had been so well
prepared, having been invited to go out to
one of the sisters to spend the evening.
After supper had been cleared away we
started on our way to the sisters where we
were to spend the evening. On arriving
we did not find the expected guests there,
but shortly the sister of the house said if it
was agreeable with us we would walk
down to the other sisters and find out what
was the cause of their delay. Of course we
gladly accepted the invitation, when we ar-
rived there we found the house all dark and
apparently no one stirring. This sister
who accompanied us there said we would
go in and wake them up. Just as she
opened the door and we were ready to step
in the room was lighted up very brightly
and the word “surprise” was ringing in
our ears from all sides. For a moment we
could not think what was going on, but
in a few moments when we had gathered
our minds together again we realized this
had all been planned before, and here we
were among our brethren and sisters to par-
take of their kindness, and we can say we
enjoyed ourselves inexpressibly well. We
were kindly entertained by the brethren
and sisters with their nice singing, reciting
and speeches, also were treated with ice
cream and cake. I can say for myself and
in behalf of my other sisters, that I never
had a more enjoyable time in my life. We
felt such a good influence around us, and
the many blessings that were called down
upon us that evening, we felt as though we
were and had been one with them for years,
as I have stated before. We went to the
homes of some of the sisters that evening
with the feeling of God bless you all that

[Column 3]
we may be associated from time to time and
have the spirit of our Heavenly Father to
guide us, in the straight and narrow way.
	Next morning, Saturday, August 6, we
attended the Stake officers meeting at 11 a.
m., and listened to the fatherly counsel
given by our Stake President J. M. Baxter
and First Counselor Byron Sessions. After
meeting was closed and we had partaken of
dinner at the home of one of our beloved
sisters, we journeyed home, leaving the
blessings of our Heavenly Father upon the
branches of the Relief Society of this Stake
and feeling that we had been blessed of the
Lord, that He had been present with us
during our visit. And we pray that the
Lord will bless the Relief Society of this
Stake with wisdom, knowledge and power
that we may do much good here upon the
earth in rolling on the great and glorious
work, is the wish of
			Your sister in the Gospel, 
