A GOOD LETTER.

Dear Sister Wells:
	Please find enclosed one dollar subscrip-
tion for the present volume of the “Expon-
ent,” always a welcome visitor, to me it
contains many rich gems of sublime thought
and inspiration. I delight to read and know
what the sisters of this and other lands are
doing, their methods and manner of con-
ducting their meetings, also the testimon-
es of the handmaids of the Lord in this dis-
pensation, truly the progressiveness of the
work of our Heavenly Father in this direc-
tion is marvelous in our eyes and we can
truly say with Sister Woodmansee,

“Oh blest was the day when the prophet and
	seer
Who stands at the head of this last dispens[-]tion,
Inspired from above by the Father of love,
Formed the daughters of Zion’s great organiza-
	tion
Its purpose indeed, is to comfort and feed
The honest and poor in distress and in need,
Oh the daughters of Zion, the friends of the poor
Are examples of faith, hope and charity pure.”

	I am very much pleased with Sister Han-
nah Sorensen’s letter and her success as a
participant in the Mothers’ Congress of
Motherhood, a very important and needful
education.
	In reading the lines of the Sable Messen- 
ger in the present issue, by Sister Lu Dal-
ton, it brought forcibly tho’ sadly to
mind an incident in my own experience.
	I had a danghter taken from me aged,
eighteen and a half years, after a long sick-
ness we talked of many things concerning
the spirit world, she was a brave, noble
girl and the kind, encouraging words she
spoke to me are too sacred to be drawn forth
from the sacred recesses of a mother’s heart.
But she said to me, “Mother there is one
thing I don’t like to die for and that is I
will have no mother there.” I referred her
to Sister Eliza’s hymn and also reminded
her that her father had gone before her
when she was a little child and would no
doubt be waiting to embrace her with out-
stretched arms; this filled her soul with
peace.
	There is no death, it is only a change to
a brighter, holier sphere where we meet the
loved ones gone before, truly life and im-
mortality has been brought to life through
the Gospel revealed to Joseph Smith in this
dispensation.
					MARY BAXTER. 
	Spanish Fork, August 17, 1898.


