SUFFRAGE.

Clara Barton appealed to the veterans to
vote for woman’s suffrage, many years ago
as follows:
When you were weak and I was strong,
I toiled for you. Now you are strong and
 I am weak. Because of my work for you
ask your aid. I ask the ballot for my-
self and my sex. As I stood by you, I
pray you stand by me and mine.

[Column 2]
At the Annual Festival of the New Eng-
land Woman Suffrage Association, in
Music Hall, Boston, May 1888, Miss Bar-
ton, then, as now, president of the Red
Cross, said in part:

Mrs. President, Gentlemen and Ladies:

It was a surprise to me that my opinions
either way should be held of sufficient im-
portance to be mentioned. What difference
could it make to others what I approved or
disapproved, believed or disbelieved in?
But as I reflected upon it, it did occur to
me that perhaps it ought to be of sufficient
importance to myself to induce me to take
the opportunity which offers at this mo-
ment, to make my record a trifle more clear
if possible, and this will require very little
time.
I believe I must have been born be-
lieving in the full right of woman to all
the privileges and positions which nature
and justice accord to her in common with
other human beings. Perfectly equal
rights—human rights. There was never
any question in my mind in regard to this.
I did not purchase my freedom with a price;
was born free, and when as a younger
woman I heard the subject discussed, it
seemed simply ridiculous that any sensible,
rational person should question it. And
when later the phase of woman's right to
suffrage came up, it was to me only a part
of the whole, just as natural, just as right,
and just as certain to take place.
And whenever I have been urged, as a
petitioner, to ask for this privilege for wo-
man a kind of dazed, bewildered feeling has
come over me.
Of whom should I ask this privilege?
Who possessed the right to confer it? Who
had greater right than woman herself?
Was it man, and if so where did he get it ?
Who conferred it upon him ? He depended
upon woman for his being, his very exist-
ence, nurture and rearing. More fitting
that she should have conferred it upon him.
Was it governments? What were they
but the voice of the people? What gave
them their power? Was it divinely con-
ferred? Alas! no; or they would have
been better, purer, more just and stable.
Was it force of arms-war? Who furn-
ished the warriors? Who but the mothers?
Who reared the sons and taught that liberty
and their country were worth their blood?
Who gave them up, wept their fall, nursed
them in suffering and mourned them dead?
Was it labor? Women have always, as
a rule, worked harder than men.
Was it capital ? Woman has furnished
her share up to the present hour. Who
then can give her the right, and on what
basis? Who can withhold it ?
Any attempt on my part to elaborate up-
on the arguments so ably and fully made
by the honored and veteran thinkers and
orators about me—men and women who
have taught the world in the science of the
principles they proclaim, would be simply
piesumption, and but for one circumstance
I should not occupy the little moment
which I propose to do, but would at once


give way to our honored guests from other
lands.
	But within the last few days I have ob-
served two press notices of myself contain-
ing statements which to persons unaccus-
tomed to the marvelous elasticity of the
American press, might seem difficult to rec-
oncile. One notice was to the effect that
“Miss Clara Barton, who is announced to
be present at the woman’s suffrage conven-
tion at Boston, is a lady of foreign birth
but a firm believer in woman’s rights, and
a pronounced suffragist.” The other said
that “It is a significant sign of the broad-
ening of the woman question, that Miss
Clara Barton is announced among the
speakers of the Boston Suffrage Convention,
as she is known to be very conservative, if
not actually opposed to woman suffrage.”
	The first thing that interested me was the
fact that I had lost my nativity. I could
not clearly understand how I did it, but the
shock was softened somewhat by remember-
ing that a few days previous a Philadelphia
reporter complimented me by saying that I
“presided over a certain meeting ably and
gracefully, and spoke with very little ac-
cent.”
	In regard to my nationality, I was born
in the old Huguenot town of Oxford, Mass., 
U. S. A.  My father and mother were born
there. My grandfathers and grandmothers,
with two exceptions, were born, lived, 
died and were buried there.
	There is, once in a while, a monarch 
who denies the right of man to place a crown
upon his head. Only the Great Jehovah
can crown and anoint him for his work, and
he reaches out, takes the crown and places
it upon his head with his own hand. I sus-
pect that this is in effect what woman is doing 
today. Virtually there is no one to give her
the right to govern herself, as men govern 
themselves by self-made and self-approved
laws of the land. But in one way or anoth-
er, sooner or later, she is coming to it.
And the number of thoughtful and right-
minded men who will oppose, will be much
smaller than we think; and when it is really 
an accomplished fact, all will wonder, as I 
have done, what the question ever was.
	—Woman’s Journal.


