Vitalizing Resolutions
By President Louise Y. Robison
An Address Delivered at the Regional Conference of the National Women's Christian Temperance Union, January 26, 1932
THE invitation to meet with you today has given me great pleasure. The Women's Christian Temperance Union has ever upheld the standards of good citizenship and in the words of that great leader, Frances Willard, it has fought long and valiantly "for God and home and native land." In the face of ridicule and opposition it has never lowered its standards but has calmly and prayerfully carried on. I am honored in the privilege I have of meeting with you in this Conference.
Thinking back to the early seventies one must remember that those early workers for temperance—so few in number, without money or experience but with strong faith—must have been led and sustained by Divine Power. Their untiring efforts prove their belief in a saying of Emanuel Kant: "Anything that ought to be done, can be done."
The gaining of the ballot by women and the outlawing of the sale of liquor, unquestionably constitute two of the most significant reforms in history, and the adoption of the 18th and 19th Amendments to the Constitution, two of the finest pieces of social legislation ever enacted. We owe an incalculable debt of gratitude to those heroic women who patiently endured pain and persecution for the sake of the liberty which the women of today enjoy.
But we must remember that the spirit of any event must be kept alive by adherents of that event in order that it may not die. Only by being true to the ideals and standards of those who made possible the 18th and 19th Amendments to the Constitution can we give the next generation the precious heritage which we have received. We are reminded of what the Roman Officer said to the Apostle Paul, "With a great price obtained I this freedom."
It seems to be human nature for us to sacrifice and make effort to obtain a goal—then to "rest on our oars." There certainly has developed a civic carelessness—a national indifference, making necessary more valiant effort and greater cooperation. Resolutions may be helpful and the appeal, which led to making them, may have educational value, but at best it is passive. This passivity must be vitalized and made a living force in the lives of the people.
We read in 2nd Corinthians, 3rd Chapter, of the epistle of Christ, written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tables of stone but in tables of the heart, for the letter killeth but the Spirit giveth life. To many people, these precious Amendments are but written in ink. It is clearly then the mission of every loyal American to make these words of ink, a vital force, written in the tables of the heart.
In the home—first by example and in song and story, let there be no jokes nor cartoons on prohibition or officers of the law. An enlightened public opinion can be created if women will unite in the effort. We should know the purpose of every election and the officials to be elected. It is of utmost importance that we should know the character and records of individuals seeking office. We ask this of everyone applying for the humblest type of work in industry, then why should we pass it over in those individuals whose actions influence the lives of our youth? If we have placed good servants in office we should support and help them in the discharge of their duties, and we should honor and obey the law in small things as in great.
We are not pessimists but people of faith, faith in ourselves and in our country—faith in the living God who strengthens the cause of right and we are going to set our hands to the task that lies before us. In closing let me quote the words of President Lincoln in his Cooper-Union Square address: "Let us have faith that right makes might and in that faith let us dare to do our duty as we understand it."