I learned through that deal that it is well to know the company with which one is dealing. About eight years ago we were looking around for an electric washer. At that time a certain company was shipping a certain make of washers West by the car load. The washer, according to its advocates was guaranteed for a life time. We found one of those washers which had been used about a year that could be purchased at a saving of about eighty dollars. "What's a year in a life time?" we argued. "It will be our last washer anyway." We bought.
Not so long afterward, we had trouble with the belt and had to have a new one. The salesman explained that no one could expect an ordinary leather belt to last a life time. Why, of course not. We felt foolish for even mentioning that. We had to pay a good sum for the belt and a little of our faith in our machine went with the purchase money. A little later a rubber pipe used as an outlet gave way. We learned from the agent that in all probability the former owner had used strong soaps or lye. We had to pay for it, and have paid for another one since and we don't use lye. Then the gears went bad. Of course we expected them free, but, no, they revealed no material defect. While they were guaranteed for a life time all right, we had to pay a good sum for them. Still later the gears went bad again. When we went to have them replaced, we learned that steel gears at a much higher price were being used. We were pleased. The material, after all, was defective and we would have the new steel gears free. "Well, um—not exactly free—" the salesman hesitated—"You see the cast gears were as good as cast gears could be expected to be, but they wouldn't hold up in our washer."
Now, my wife tells me, the wringer is going bad. The company has now changed its catchwords in its advertising. "It's wise to be shifty" might be substituted with propriety. "The skin I'd love to clutch" would suit me rather well.
Slogans and catch phrases bark at one from so many unexpected places, many of them demanding analysis as my cousin's proposition did, that one sometimes is constrained to analyze them in order to maintain one's sense of humor. A few of them so treated would read something as follows: "More wiles per smile," "Knockless gasoline," "You can afford so many extras when you shop at Shears and Shave," and "Albuquerque has that all-year climate."
After glancing through a magazine one could make up a questionnaire of his own something like the following: "Do you know what is winter's worst threat? Over-dry indoor air." Are you aware that "you can cut your fuel cost 50%, your summer heat 12°? And that great talkers have no need of ears?" or that "It wasn't what he said, but what he didn't do", or "What has the "Perfect Power?" Do you know why, according to Chic Sale, "she is principal of her school?"
I bought a "genuine cowhide" bag and found the hide had been mulched and sprayed on pasteboard with a paint gun, and an all-wool sweater made of shoddy. Gunning for the pennies has become such a national sport that in self protection many firms as well as individuals have joined a purchasers' protective association which, by means of research, finds out the real value of goods offered for sale—from automobiles to darning cotton.
Yet, while we know our dimes are being sought, like the coyote chased by a dog, we rather enjoy the campaign. Many a national magazine is bought, not for its editorial contents, but for the beautiful and wise things the advertisers have to say. Though we know it slays to advertise we risk our incomes and turn our backs upon the good old proverb, "There is safety in slumbers."
Why did I buy that recent tube of tooth-paste? Because I could not "Laugh that off." Why do I use a certain kind of shaving cream? Chiefly because I became interested in the quarrel between a blue jar and a tube. Why do I wear a certain kind of socks? Because a musical pair have sung about them so repeatedly in my presence that when I need hosiery I can think of the name they drummed into my ears first and further, because I want to appear to know what I want.
Dear reader, I think I am something like you, or, to turn it around, that you are something like me. We are all more or less alike. Sometimes I think that even inanimate things are like us in this matter. My sour dough bread refuses to rise properly when the soda comes from a box that does not bear on it the well-known sign or trade-mark with which my sour dough and I have been reared. Truly it slays to advertise. Sooner or later the catch word or phrase becomes a part of our thinking, if the advertiser is sufficiently persistent. When it does, we are lost.