Vol. 223 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1894. No. 19.


CONTENTS:

	Some Facts About Sericulture. In Rural
England—A Story. Interesting Tour In Sevier—
Christena Cellars. Reception To Mrs. Willard.
Notes And News. To The Sisters—Zina D. H.
Young. Current Literature—E. B. W. R. S.
Reports. U. W. P. C.—Gladys Woodmansee.
W. S. A.—M. E. Irvine. Mrs. Sorenson’s Class.
An Enjoyable Affair—M. E. K. In Memoriam
—Com.

	EDITORIAL:—Birthday Anniversary. Woman’s
Opportunity.

	POETRY:—The Mother To Her Son—Mary A.
Freeze. Utah R. M. F. Had I The Power—
Edahoo. On The Street—L. M. Hewlings,
Life’s Guiding Star—Zina C. Walker.


THE MOTHER TO HER SON.

YOU say, “Could you write such letters
	As your mother writes to you,
’Twould repay for all exertion"
	And I know you mean it, true.
But list, my son, to my story 
	While my joy to you I tell, 
Because of that precious sentence.
	“Dear mother, I’m happy and well."
Not the music of the angels
	Being wafted from above, 
Could fill me with such rapture
	Nor inspire such grateful love—
To our kind and heavenly Parent,
	For His mercy and tender care,
To my own lov’d missionary 
	In response to his mother’s prayer.
Like engraving in pictures of silver
	With letters of shining gold,
Were those words from the South Sea Islands,
	Oh! their worth could never be told—
As they came to the one who bore thee,
	Who periled her life for thine,
’Twas like incense from some bright altar,
	Some sacred, holy, shrine.
Had there been no other sentence
	In that missive you sent to me,
’Twould still have been more priceless
	Than pearls from over the sea.
And I pray that our loving Father
	May still send His mighty power,
To protect on the land or the billow,
	Guiding safely through each trying hour.
MARY A. FREEZE.


UTAH.

O UTAH, lovely Utah! Thou art my theme,
Tis of thee I would sing, of thee that I dream;
With thy beautiful vales and glittering rills,
That ripple with laughter as they dance from the
	hills.
I gaze on thy mountains, so mighty and grand,
And view with delight the vast stretches of land;
That slope to the beautiful Lake in the west,
Where the sun in his glory sinks low on its breast.
Each nerve of my being with wonderment thrills,
My heart to my Maker with gratitude fills;
That thou once a desert, so lonely and drear,
Has now mong’st thy sisters no rival or peer.
Are thine not the hills of which prophets have,
	sung, 
Are thine not the vales to which many shall come
To drink of thy fountains so healing and sweet,
To bask in thy freedom and to rest at thy feet?


Thy mountains are fragrant with minerals rare,
Thy orchards and meadows are fruitful and fair,
Thy sons and thy daughters, none nobler are
	found,
Though ye seek the land over this wide world
	around.
Then should I not love thee blest Utah my home,
I would not exchange thee for palace or dome,
With sceptre of peace which thou hold’st in thine
	hand
Thou sit’st like a queen in the mid'st of the land.
The wonder of nations, whose eyes shall behold
Thy glory extending to splendors untold;
No more shall their lips curl with scorn at thy
	name,
But thy brow shall be wreathed with the laurels
	of fame.
R. M. F.


[Column 1]
SOME FACTS ABOUT SERICULTURE.

	A NUMBER of women in Utah are taking
up silk culture with great enthusiasm.
Among them is Mrs. Hannah C. Bentley
of St. George. The following extracts
from letters of Mrs. Bentley’s to the Utah
Woman’s Silk Association are interesting
and give valuable hints for those who wish
to engage in silk culture.
	“I have 212 pounds of green cocoons.
I have smothered 100 pounds. I have 26 
ounces of eggs now and will have twice as 
many more. All wanting eggs for another
year would do well to get them now and
properly keep them until the leaves are
ready another year. The weather is so 
very changeable that to bring the worms 
along properly you must keep the room 
warm night and day until after the second
molting. They should be fed every two
hours until after the first molting, then
every three hours until the second molt-
ing, then every four hours until they spin.
They are not to be fed nor disturbed during
molting. In changing their beds I find a
frame covered with wire screens the very
best thing. Place it over the bed,sprinkle
and feed over this, and you will find the
little fellows all crawling up upon the feed.
I have three different sized frames—the first
the original netting—the second every
other wire drawn each way—the third two
wires each way. The worms must not be
too crowded neither handled. I am plan-
ning to make twenty-five yards of cloth
this year, if my health will permit.”
	“I have already suggested that those
who intended raising silk for another year,
secure their eggs now and care for them,
keep them upon the paper upon which they
are laid,—roll them up carefully—take a
perfectly clean lard bucket—perforate the
bottom and lid that they may have air—put
the eggs in—close the bucket and tie the
lid on that no accident may happen to the
eggs—lay them up in a cold dry cellar.
When the leaves in the spring are as large
as a dime bring up the eggs, spread the
papers upon a deep box lid, and keep in a
warm room of even temperature. Always
keep each days hatching by itself on ac-
count of their molting as they must not
be fed during that time. When the worms

[Column 2]
first hatch I put a leaf upon them, letting
the stem remain. When the leaf is full, I
take the leaf by the stem and place upon
the bed prepared for them until after the
first molting. I leave a space between
each wide enough so that I can lap the leaf
on both sides and they will immediately
transfer themselves to the fresh leaf.”
	Mrs. Bentley has plenty of fresh silk
worm eggs which can be had for four
dollars an ounce. A quarter of an ounce 
is all one person can care for. It is not too
late to raise the silk worms this year, the
mulberry leaves are still very tender. Eggs
can be gotten in Salt Lake City by applying
to Mrs. C. E. Allen, 234 seventh East street
who has a limited supply for sale for the
Silk Association.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXXVIII.

	LORD WALTON sailed on the British ship
Francesco (as he had evidently been deter-
mined to do,) bound for his native land,
leaving his two little children in charge of
Dr. and Mrs. Bland, and taking with him
only one of his household, a man servant
whom he had brought from Walton Hall.
He was affected to tears in parting with his
babies, but too utterly selfish to yield to the
entreaties of his true friends, the Blands,
when they tried to dissuade him from
going, even on the eve of his departure.
	So another burden fell heavily upon Jane
Bland. She watched the ship sail away,
but would not go down to the shore to see
him off. Dr. Bland however did so and
bade him the last good bye. Little Edward
Walton had never seen much of his father
and therefore did not miss him as most
children would, and baby was of course far
too young to know anything, but the nurses
and servants berated him sorely behind his
back, though to his face they were flattering
and servile, begging too that he would take
them all back again to live in a civilized
country, where there were no “Injuns ”
and wild beasts, of which they lived in con-
stant fear; and indeed though they knew
how much their young mistress loved Mrs.
Bland, their prejudices against Hilliard
castle and Sir Edward were so strong, that
it had been hard work to keep quiet about
the old traditions, and now they were to be
brought in closer contact with the only
surviving relative of Sir Edward, of whom
they had ever heard, and the maids gossipped
of Sir Edward’s niece as if she were really
an uncanny creature, whereas she was the
most matter of fact and sensible person,
these simple housemaids had ever met with.
They had great reason to thank her after-
wards for the many lessons of prudence,
economy and thrift they received from this
gentle and patient woman.
	As one after another in the years follow-
ing, these young women married and com-
menced housekeeping on a small scale; for
not one of them returned to their native
land—Mrs. Bland dispensed with a liberal
hand, and generous heart, not only material


gifts to these lone girls, but words of wis-
dom,comfort and encouragement; she never
knew the feeling of hostility, they had
fostered because of her relationship to Sir
Edward, and her residence at the old
tumble-down castle. Strange what strong
prejudices existed between old families, and
how it invariably impressed the servants.
In this case as the young women married
and assumed responsible positions as ma-
trons in a new colony, they grew to admire
and look up to Mrs. Bland who proved a
staunch friend in times of adversity, and
one on whom firm reliance could be placed.
	Dr. Bland survived only a few months
after Maitland left for England, his illness
was so gradual that his friends were
scarcely aware it was serious, though his
wife was apprehensive of danger from im-
pressions and premonitions of an indefinable
character which, she felt, and knew were
convincing to her own mind. She dis-
guised from her husband the real state of
her feelings, and preserved a cheerful coun-
tenance when with him, but often when by
herself, the tears would flow at the thought
of being left alone with such grave res-
ponsibilities, in a new country among
strangers. Maitland had not been heard
from direct but once when the Doctor’s
death occurred, and then his message was
very unsatisfactory.
	“Take good care of the children, dear
cousin, they have no mother but you now—
and when my mother’s affairs are settled, I
will come or send for them. Let me know
as often as possible how they are and be
sure that Andrews is faithful to Edward.”
Toward the close of his letter he asked if
the baby was like Anna. Such a heartless
letter coming when Mrs. Bland was over-
whelmed with care,anxiety and sorrow was
almost unbearable, even for one so for-
giving and charitable. Clair had not been
heard from for some time and she did not
like to mention him because of Robert
Harrison whose name never passed her lips,
and of whom she never allowed herself to
think; Anna in her lifetime frequently allu-
ded to “dear Uncle Rob” as she always
called him, but Mrs. Bland either maintain-
ed perfect silence or answered in mono-
syllables; for a woman of Jane Bland’s
type would not allow herself even to cher-
ish a thought of another man, to come like
a dark shadow between her and the hus-
band whom she had promised to love and
obey, for that was one of the solemn in-
junctions of the marriage service of the
Church of England. Besides she enter-
tained the utmost reverence for the sacred
obligations she had assumed, and to be lack-
ing fidelity even in thought would have
seemed to her low and base.
	The death of Dr. Bland was a blow to
the community, for he was a man to be
missed not oniy among men, who esteemed
his great virtues and nobility as well as his
worldly wisdom and sagacity, but the poor
and afflicted to whom he had been generous
and benevolent, mourned for him most
sincerely, and they had good cause for they
had lost a kind friend and a true benefactor.
	His funeral was largely attended, the
services being very simple, but eloquent
with deep feeling, for Mr. Barrington who
delivered the short discourse knew how up-
right and conscientious his life had been,
and in fact all who had the honor of his
acquaintance felt the influence of his re-
fined personality. He never considered
neither hardships nor toil in his profession,
and after his death there was a sense of
loneliness and loss in every home where he
had visited. He was buried among the pines
near to Lady Anna whom he had watched
over from her childhood. His wife felt his
loss deeply but the many responsibilities she
was obliged to carry and the pressing duties
which must be attended to immediately,
helped her to endure with greater courage
the sad loss that had befallen her. Her
little boy missed his father with a grief al-
most uncontrollable. He had been so much
with him, always in fact when he was at
home, and often rode in his gig over the
hills and through the long stretches of pine
woods while his father was making his
calls upon his patients
	Businessmen who interested themselves
and proffered advice to the young widow,
who seemed so much alone in the world,
and the executors of the will, were all
amazed at the wonderful ability and even
knowledge of business affairs, that Mrs.
Bland displayed in dealing with the sub-
jects that demanded her personal super-
vision. She was or seemed to be equal to
all occasions and under all circumstances.
Mr. Barrington rendered her valuable
assistance in relieving her of the unpleasant
duty of writing to the Doctor’s relatives in
the north of England. This she really felt
she could not do. It was very remarkable
that she kept her balance so well, looking
after every minute detail in the settlement
of the estate and property, and yet manag-
ing her household and nursery with pre-
cision and keeping every department in
running order. Her hands were never idle,
and her quick and ready intuition of what
was needed, and what was best and most
appropriate seemed never at fault.
	A severe winter set in soon after the
decease of the Doctor and she was more
closely confined within doors, which in-
clined her more to melancholy than when
she was out and looking after the necessary
preparations for the long,cold New England
winter. It was also true that being more
with the children she was constantly re-
minded of the double loss, both for herself
and them, of the two who had left her so
sorely bereft. Almost the only companion
with whom she held converse upon any
serious subject was Mr. Barrington, and in
the long evenings he would read to her
while she sat and sewed on the little gar-
ments for the orphaned children. The
young minister was conversant with many
topics in which Mrs. Bland was deeply in-
terested and it was a great pleasure to them
both to give free expression to thoughts
and ideas, not always quite so well under-
stood by the people among whom they
were living.
	One letter had come from Maitland after
the Doctor’s death, but it was a sterotyped
affair, his mother joined him in expressions
of love and sympathy; he could not yet
leave England for several reasons which he
did not take the pains to give, and he must
stay by his mother for the present.
	From the Doctor’s relatives tender letters
of love and sympathy begging Mrs. Bland
to come home to them, and to give up the
care of her cousin’s children to those whose
duty it was to care for them. This she
could not and would not do, though it was
very pleasant to know these good kind-
hearted friends appreciated her situation,
and would have made her more than wel-
come to dwell among them. But she felt
so strongly within herself the independence
of action, and the need of relying upon her
own judgment in reference to the duties
resting wholly and solely with her in regard
to the children, that she could not have
yielded a point in reference to the course 
she ought to pursue.
	Mr. Barrington knowing the contents of
the letters ventured one evening to say to
Mrs. Bland, “You will pardon me I trust,
but would it not be well for you to person-
ally consider the proposition of your hus-
band’s family, and make up your mind to
leave here in the spring for a visit and a
change of scene, even if you desire to make
America your permanent home?”
	Mrs. Bland seemed astonished that any
one should have dared to make such a
suggestion, and hesitated a moment before
replying, turning upon him the full blaze
of her large gray eyes. “I thought Mr.
Barrington you understood me better than
to ask such a question, or even indulge a
thought of my ever putting into the power
of any one to control me or my affairs. I
have passed through ordeals of such a
nature, that I am quite prepared to stand
alone if needful and to bring up my child,
according to my own ideas, that he may be
as well fortified to grapple with fortune or
misfortune as his father and I want to
educate him in my own way.” “But my
dear friend” whispered Mr. Barrington
“Would not your opportunities and advan-
tages be much greater in England than
here to give your son a liberal education
such as you propose, and you yourself
would have the companionship of refined
and cultivated women, whereas here you
have never made the acquaintance, though
you have been urged, of women in your
own rank, only of the poor and lowly.”
“Of whom I have learned invaluable
lessons of patience, resignation, humility
and self-denial, courage under supreme
difficulties and embarrassments, this you
will grant me is worth learning in your
creed of divine philosophy.”
	“Certainly Madame but yet I see a
boundless avenue open to you in the higher
walks of life, and with such a fine brain as
yours, and the courage of a man, a hero
indeed, you should make your influence felt
in the rank and file of women of superior
graces and intelligence.” “And so you
think America is not good enough or great
enough for poor me—let me tell you
America will need strong-hearted women
and brave men in the near future, and
England has her army and navy and her
treasuries are full and running over.”


WOMANS EXPONENT


THE Chicago Woman’s Club has added a
woman suffrage section to its other depart-
ments.
	REV. DR. GUMBART, of Roxbury, Mass.,
preached a strong sermon in favor of
woman suffrage last Sunday.
	THE Prohibition State Conventions of
California and Illinois, and the Populist
State Conventions of California, Illinois and
Indiana endorse woman suffrage.
	AT Tuskegee, Ala., Normal and Indus-
trial Institute, every girl who graduates
this year has cut and made the dress which
she wears on Commencement day.
	“WHY Women Should Vote” is the title
of an admirable pamphlet by Rev. Dr.
Rainsford, of New York. It may be
ordered from Rev. J. R. Atkinson, 207 E.
16th Street, New York City. Price, ten
cents.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


HAD I THE POWER. 

	Dear love of mine,
Had I the power
To grant thee all thy heart desires,
	It would be thine:
Were’t jewels rare, or golden treasure,
Or fame’s bright crown, or love’s full measure,
Aye, all to which thy soul aspires,
’Twould be my joy, on thee to shower,
	Dear love of mine,
Had I the pow’r!
	Dear heart of mine
I have no pow’r.
To give thee joy, or fame, or dower,
	Else’twould be thine
But, O! could the bluebirds bonny wing
Waft thee the song, I fain would sing,
It would stir your soul with subtlest thought
As a living poem in sunshine wrought,
Whisper the love in my heart this hour
	That will be thine
Beyond the clouds
	And after time
Have I the pow’r.
‘Edahoo.’


ON THE STREET.
I walked on the city’s busiest street,
While thinking perchance some one to meet,
Among youths’ and maidens, women and men,
That might a hand to my own extend, 
Or find some one, at least, who might say,
“Glad to meet you! How are you today?”
So I pushed thro’ ’mid the great whirling throng,
With quick eager glance, strode swiftly along
Most-intensely scanning each form and face,
That thereby one familiar I might trace,
And exchange greetings in the old way,
“How are you? Glad to see you today!”
There were vigorous strength, and feeble old age,
All conditions, and races, engaged
In making their way along on the street,
Some minds on chances of gain, or defeat,
Some homesick may be, longing to say,
“Glad to meet you, old friends today!
Forward and backward, thro’ the grand highway,
Streamed a vast concourse all the long day,
Some moving joyously, smiling, and glad,
Many more wearily, tired and sad,
Men, women and children, passed as in play
None to me said, “How are you today?”
Pity the lonely wherever they are,
In any place, no matter where!
Pining and hungry for solace of home,
Greeting of voices in kind friendly tone,
How they’d rejoice, if some one would say,
“Glad to meet you! How are you today,"
L. M. HEWLINGS.


LIFE’S GUIDING STAR.
IN  each life there’s a bright guiding star,
	That teaches the soul of mankind,
To be honest and stand at the bar
	Of Justice and Prudence to bind
Our good deeds in life close together,
	To shut out all evil and sin
To be cheerful through dark, stormy weather
	And seek the reward he may win.

Should he list to its dictates forever
	Give heed to its "still and small voice,”
The wrong from the right we could sever
	The heart and the soul would rejoice.
Tis true that in life, disappointment,
	Oft sinks and depresses the mind
Of man, but in life there’s an ointment,
	As healing as balmy and kind.
'Tis Jesus deep pity and blessing,
	That gives a reward for all pain;
The star, as it guides, we’re confessing


Our sins and ’twill teach us so plain,
How to cast from us all that is evil,
	And teach us to do but the right
That instead of a sigh, sing a song
	And instead of the darkness, a light!
ZINA C. WALKER.


INTERESTING TOUR IN SEVIER.

Editor Exponent:
	On Saturday May 5, Sisters Mary Freeze
and Minnie J. Snow arrived here in Rich-
field for the purpose of attending the meet-
ings of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Sevier
Stake of Zion. The force of instruction
given by the ladies above named was treat-
ing upon the subjects of virtue, and chastity.
The counsels given were indeed choice,
timely and beneficial and a good time in
general was enjoyed.
	On Monday May 7, a special meeting was
held in Elsinore by the sisters of the Relief
Society, Sister Minnie J. Snow having re-
turned to Salt Take City. Present on the
stand, President Mary Freeze, President E.
Bean, Counselor Thirza Thurber and Sec-
retary Christena Cellars, sisters of the
Elsinore ward, Bishop Jensen and others.
Remarks were made by President E. Bean,
who gave good instruction. President Mary
Freeze addressed the congregation, dwelt
on the subjects of faith and hope, referred
to the Christians of former days and of the
great work that rested upon us as a people
to redeem our dead, said that the glory of
God had burst forth upon Zion. We have
great cause to rejoice and thank the Lord
for the privilege we have to be on the
earth at this favored period, gave much
good instruction to the sisters and words of
encouragement and asked that many of the
blessings of God be with us all the day
long. Admonished us to listen to the
whisperings of the Holy Spirit and be care-
ful to obey. Prayed God to bless us in all
of our callings. Counselor Thirza Thurber
had enjoyed the meetings very much, en-
dorsed the remarks of the sisters. Bore her
testimony to the truth of this work. Dwelt
on the subject of caring for our young, we
should guard them from the evils that sur-
round them. Bishop Jensen was pleased
with the meetings, endorsed the remarks of
the speakers. Remarks by Brother Broad-
band. He appreciated the good instruction
given by the sisters.
	The ladies held meetings at Joseph City
at 2 p. m. and 10 a. m. A meeting also
in Monroe, May 8. The remarks of Presi-
dent E. Bean at Joseph City are worthy of
mention. Sister Bean bore her testimony
to the truth of this work, spoke of the
mercy of our Heavenly Father. Said we
would be able to resist all evil if we were
faithful, hoped the young sisters would be
careful and not grieve the Holy Spirit and
all would be well. Dwelt on the blessiugs
and advantages that might be derived from
the practice of plural marriage. We should
live a pure and holy life. Instructed the
sisters to be careful of themselves and be
thankful for all our privileges, advised
mothers to guard their daughters from evil,
and daughters to honor their parents,
prayed the Lord to help and bless us Re-
marks were made by Sisters Thurber,
Freeze and Cellars. From Monroe the
sisters traveled to Annabella holding a meet-
ing at 3 p. m., also a meeting was held at
Inverury at 5 p. in., making three meet-
ing s in one day. The party then returned
to Richfield and at 10 a, m. May 9, held
meetings in Glenwood. From Glenwood to
Vermilion holding meeting at 10a. m. May
10 and thence to Aurora, meeting, conven-
ing at 3 p. m. the same day. Remained in
Aurora over night, and next morning,
May 11, held meeting in Redmond. Meet-
ing convened at Salina at 3 p. m. Return-
ed to Richfield Saturday May 12. Sister
Freeze returning home to Salt Lake City.
The remarks at Glenwood by President
Freeze were particularly interesting. She
dwelt on the trials of the sisters in plural
marriage and how by trusting in the Lord
we might be able to overcome ourselves.
Instructed us to be humble and do away
with our pride. Through our trials we
might be drawn nearer to our Father.
President Freeze expressed her pleasure and
surprise at seeing so many beautiful,as well
as intelligent young ladies in this Stake of
Zion. A general good time was enjoyed,
the sisters meeting with kindness and hos-
patility in all of their travels.
CHRISTENA CELLARS, Sec.


RECEPTION TO MISS WILLARD.
MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD will be in
Boston on June 23, and a reception and
breakfast will be given her by the W. C.
T. U., on that day, at the Vendome at 12
o’clock. Gen. Neal Dow, Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore, Rev. Joseph Cook, Mrs. S. S.
Fessenden, Henry B. Blackwell and others
have been invited to make addresses. It
will be a great affair, with orchestral and
vocal music and fine after-dinner speaking.
In order to bring it within the reach of all
Miss Willard’s many friends, the tickets
have been placed at $1. For sale at the
Woman’s Journal Office, and at the W. C. 
T. U. Headquarters, 171 Tremont Street.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. A. R. TEMPLE is president of the 
First National Bank, of Lexington,
Nebraska, and Miss Temple is vice-presi-
dent.
	MISS MARIE OUTHWAITE, of De Pere,
Wis., has passed an examination as an ex-
pert drummer before the musical jury ap-
pointed by Theodore Thomas. She is only
eight years old.
	THE trustees of the estates of Lady
Henry Somerset are petitioning the courts
for an injunction to restrain her from clos-
ing all the saloons on her property, which
she is seeking to do.
	DR. SARAH HACKETT STEVENSON re-
ceived the degree of Doctor of Science, last
week, from the University of Pennsylvania.
It was conferred at the same time upon
Prof. John Fiske, William T. Harris and
Gov. Pattison.
	THE Countess of Aberdeen made about
$100,000 from the Irish village at the
World’s Fair. It will be used to promote
domestic industry among Irish peasants.
	AT the convention of the State Federa-
tion of Woman’s Clubs of Massachusetts, 
in annual session at Marlboro, recently,
the reports showed 718 women’s organiza-
tions in the Commonwealth, with a total,
membership of 50,000. If these 50,000
intelligent, high-minded women had votes,
think what a power they would be! They
could purify the politics of the State,


148 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY	JUNE 15,1894.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	ACCORDING to promise given in last
issue, something more is here presented of
the Young Family Gathering on the First
of June.
	Sister Elizabeth Ellsworth, eldest child
of President Young, was present, from
Idaho. Her Sister Vilate Decker, was born
on her father’s birthday, and on this oc-
casion, sat at the head of the table with
President George Q. Cannon, celebrating
her sixty-fourth birthday.
	After a delicious dinner, which was ar-
ranged, and partaken of in groups, formed
by different branches of the family conven-
ing around tables prepared for the occasion,
a program was given, which consisted of
recitations, singing, music, etc. The origi-
nal articles offered were, an excellent poem
of welcome and greeting, written and read
by Miss Arretta Young, and an appropriate
poem by Lula, recited by her little son,
Heber Greene Richards. A song by
Edward Young, of Provo, youngest son of
the late President Joseph Young, was
rendered in a style which proved the young
man’s rich, baritone voice to be in keeping
with the musical ability of the family of
which he is a member. Other songs and
recitations were given from members of the
Family Association; also an impromptu ad-
dress by Seymour B. Young jun. At 10
p. m. the exercises closed, and benediction
was pronounced by Elder Evan F. Greene.
	After many kind words of parting,
with hopes of meeting again, perhaps in
one year more, the party dispersed and the
old Lion House was again left in the quiet
state which of late years it usually assumes.


WOMAN’S OPPORTUNITY.
	THE disasters on land and sea of the
last few months are very distressing to hear,
and to read, and terrible indeed to those
who are in peril. We who are compar-
atively speaking in places of safety, should
certainly be very grateful for the blessings
vouchsafed to us by our Heavenly Father,
and it should inspire us to greater faithful-
ness and diligence in serving Him, and
keeping his commandments. Not only
does it seem that the natural elements of the
world are in great commotion, causing des-
truction of many lives and millions of
property—but that mankind are seriously
affected by agencies that are not understood,
and are going hither and thither without


any fixed purpose in view, and yielding in
many instances to dangerous influences.
	In these days of confusion, calamities and
strife, it is well for women as well as men
to be wise and conservative, to maintain
that equanimity under all circumstances
that will help to keep society level, and not
run to extremes in any one direction, but
trust in God and observe the signs of the
times, that woman as a reserve force may
be ready for any great emergency where
help may be needed. And whether we all
realize it or not in the great conflicts which
are sure to transpire shortly, (because we
already have the key-note of warning)
woman will be called to act as well as to
use a silent influence, and the better pre-
pared politically, morally, mentally and
spiritually she may be, the greater helpful-
ness she can render in the coming struggles
where mankind will assuredly stand in need
of her wise counsel and aid, her economy,
her tenderness, fortitude and endurance,
and where she will have abundant oppor-
tunity to prove her ability as a help meet
to man not only in the home, but in the
public arena of life itself, taken in its
largest and most comprehensive sense.
	The broad field which the nineteenth cen-
tury has opened to woman, in which to
educate herself in the schools, colleges, and
universities, as well as the opportunities for
culture which are given through the various
clubs and organizations that are today a
noticable factor in villages, towns and cities,
will better fit and qualify her for the tre-
mendous changes that are imminent in the
horizon of today. The world is not stand-
ing still, and the advancement of the
greater civilization of which one hears so
much, and the progress made in the solution
of intricate and difficult problems in science
that so electrify the world of mankind, are
all positive proofs of the great events that
are to be wrought out in fulfillment of the
designs of the Almighty, that have been
foretold in the Scriptures by the greatest
and wisest inspired men and poets, who
have lived indifferent ages of the world’s
history, and who looked forward to the day
when these wonderful things would come
to pass, that seem now so rapidly approach-
ing a great and momentous climax.


[Column 1]		
		TO THE SISTERS.
	BELOVED SISTERS: My thoughts are oft
with my sisters and a desire to commune
with them and I would fain comfort and
encourage them amid the cares of life. My
heart is filled with love and anxiety for all
who are striving to walk in the straight and
narrow way and trying to keep the com-
mandments of Our Father in heaven; for
myself, I hope to do better in the future,
but my heart is ever full of blessings for
my sisters.
	Our dear little Exponent is our friend,
and it is a welcome visitor to all our organ-
zations, and through this medium of com-
munication I hope more often to correspond
with the sisters, than I have done hereto-
fore.
	And to my Aids do I now wish to extend
my grateful thanks for I often hear of their
diligence in giving the instructions in the
reading of the Lectures upon Faith, and
the local Presidents uniting in the pleasant
and required efforts to make this plan uni-
form throughout our Relief Society. “If
you love me feed iny sheep.” In all the

[Column 2]
branches and stakes in Utah and wherever
the saints dwell are sixty thousand children
enrolled in the Sabbath Schools and Prima-
ries that need healthy and intelligent mothers
to guide and direct these God given
treasures; and that the world may be bene-
fited and made better by their coming upon
the earth, is our fervent prayer; and to ac-
complish this, there are both spiritual and
temporal labors required, intermingled with
economy for our self support and home in-
dustry in every form, these things are re-
quisite.
	There are some intelligent and farseeing
ladies in Salt Lake City that discern the
utility and necessity of this movement in
home industry, in order to meet the con-
ditions of the present times, aud prevent
suffering. 
	Inasmuch as our long standing organiza-
tions have been blessed to do so much good
in relieving the needy in the past, and there
are now new duties requiring special atten-
tion reminding us of what we have already
passed through, and praying that we nor
any other people may ever lack bread or
the necessities of life; I feel it will require
us as a people to have courage and firmness
to meet distressing times, and circumstances
that may come; utilizing all that we can,
and that we have, and not going into debt.
We can teach our children frugality and re-
strain them from wasting even a piece of
bread; all blessings are God-given and as
Joseph Smith used to say, “I teach the
people correct principles and they govern
themselves;” so let us teach our children
by precept as well as by example correct
principles (as we cannot always be with
them) and do our duty the best we can,
observing all the requirements devolving
upon us.
	I feel truly and deeply for those in new
places struggling with the inevitable of a
new country, and I wish to say, do not be
discouraged, the Lord rules and also hears
prayer, and he will answer those who ask
his aid and assistance in humility and
sincerity.
	There is one lucrative enterprise that this
people can and should encourage, and that
is the silk industry, especially those living
in the South in Washington County. I
trust that the words of President Young
yet live in our hearts. I hope every mul-
berry tree and sprout of the mulberry will
be preserved with all due care; had we
listened and obeyed his counsel, the yearly
six weeks work would have been ere this
not less than half a million income to this
people.
	I desire and expect soon to go to Canada
to see the saints and my daughter who lives
there, and I earnestly desire to be remem-
bered by those at home and to return to the
Temple and my labors there, and to travel
and visit the Relief Society in the several
stakes of Zion and come back to my
home again in safety.
	These are a few of my thoughts and de-
sires, for my heart is in the Latter-day
work, and my prayer is that Zion may
prosper, and all her interests, and that the
Relief Society may continue to grow and
increase and make sure and steady progress
both spiritually and temporally in all that
will tend to benefit Zion and ameliorate the
condition of humanity.
	Your Sister in the Everlasting Covenant,
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG, 
				President Relief Society.
June 29, 1794.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CURRENT LITERATURE.

[A paper read in the Reapers Club,
June 11.]
	IT goes without saying that this is an
age of current literature, and also—“that
of the making of books there is no end.”
Reviews and criticisms are so profuse and
characteristically written, that one gets a
very good idea of the book itself as judged
by another’s standard, without reading it.
It is therefore comparatively easy to know
what to read, and to become familiar with
what passes as current coin in the literary
world.
   
	Undoubtedly the current literature of the
period excels in true merit that of other
days, though some books there be that can
never in our estimation be surpassed, the
Bible, Book of Mormon the Iliad, the
Odyssey, Shakespeare and Milton etc—yet
as a whole with a few exceptions, we have
more books and better, better still they reach
the masses of the people, and the people
read.
	Magazines abound in almost all known
countries, and newspapers are as thick as
cowslips in the meadows (so to speak) for
only recently a lady of my acquaintance oc-
cupied a whole afternoon in a club, telling
of only the newspapers and journals, edited,
wholly, or in part by women in the United
States.
	Speaking of American Magazines, the
Cosmopolitan has perhaps the largest circula-
tion, at the present time, of any solid
magazine, and is decidedly progressive; and
the Ladies' Home Journal larger still,
though it is of a lighter character—dealing
more with society in general.
	The Popular Science Monthly, The Cen-
tury and Harper's, maintain a strong hold
on this side the water, and deal with such
literary scientific and moral subjects as are
needful to keep the world moving. The
North American Review and the Forum;
sum up the political and general questions
of this and other countries giving every
month the opinions of the greatest leaders
and statesmen of our time, on almost every
subject of interest.
	Scribner's, Lippincotts, The Eclectic,
McClure's, Littells Living Age, The Atlan-
tic Monthly and New England Magazine,
hold their own, the last two more especially
with Eastern people who are somewhat
conservative; and we have three very
popular newer magazines that are widely
circulated; perhaps because they contain
brief notices of all current matters, and
news of the day. There are the Review
of Reviews, Current Literature, and The
Arena; the last named deals with the great
national questions, and problems that are
agitating the world, and particularly
sociological matters, progressive move-
ments and radical reforms. We have only
mentioned the most important works of
this kind, nor scarcely those, scores and
dozens yet remain unmentioned helping to
teach educational, scientific, commercial,
manufacturing and agricultural methods
and pursuits, and to mold the religious and
social views of the world of mankind.
	Perhaps the most pernicious of all the
journalistic reviews of the day are those of
the agnostic writers who believe nothing
except what can be clearly demonstrated
mathematically or scientifically.
	Many of the magazines and newspapers

[Column 2]
publish in serial forms the books, after-
wards put upon the market; by this means,
authors sometimes double and treble their
payments for work, and they also come
more within the reach of the people to do
them good.
	I will now speak of a few new books
which have recently created something of a
furore in our own country and across the
ocean, more especially in London, and the
Athens of America.
	“Ships that Pass in the Night,” named
from a beautiful quotation in Longfellow’s
tale of Elizabeth—
‘‘Ships that pass in the night, and speak each
	other in passing,
Only a signal shown and a distant voice in the
	darkness;
So on the ocean of life we pass and speak one
	another,
Only a look and a voice, then darkness again
	and a silence.”
	The skeleton of the story was written at
an Alpine resort for invalids Petershoff
which furnished the characters, but was
finished in a London drawing room.
Beatrice Harraden, the author, is herself an
invalid, and has paralysis of the ulnar
nerve of the right arm, and carries it in a
sling. She lost the use of her right hand
by over strain in writing and playing the
violoncello. She has written much for
Blackwood’s and other magazines before
this first book which has made her name
famous, "miles and miles of stuff" she says
herself.
	She is described as a bundle of nerves,
small and frail as a lily, very dark with
eyes like a Creole, wears glasses, has short
hair and is unconventional in manner, and
not yet thirty years of age, talks rapidly,
enthusiastically, with the charming accent
of a well-bred English woman—Miss Har-
radan was born in London, began her
education in Dresden, but afterwards at-
tended the London University and passed
in classics and mathematics with the title
of Bachelor of Arts, she knows nearly all
the literary people in London.
	Her books have been described by an
English Clergyman as the “Doctrine of
Despair.” Miss Harradan is at the present
time in America (possible she may come
here,) she is now enroute to California
hoping to find health in the sunshine.
Her latest book “In Varying Moods” is a
collection of stories first published in
Blackwood's and other standard English
Magazines. Her style is morbid in my
opinion, and not altogether wholesome,
though the moral sentiment is good, the
general tendency is not hopeful. I am not
surprised that it has been severely
criticised by the clergy, and she says she
receives no end of letters from people who
say “they pray for her and beseech her to
turn back to the straight and narrow
path.”
	“The Heavenly Twins” by Sarah Grand
is one of the most talked of and widely
read books of the present time, and has
been written with a purpose, showing the
mistakes made in marriage to men of im-
moral character or tendency in that direc-
tion, a note of warning to young women;
in fact the author is ambitious to arouse
mothers to the correct view which she holds,
that there should be one standard of
morality, and virtue for men and women
alike, and that all women should arouse
from the apathy which makes them sur-
render to the existing conditions of
modern society, but she wishes them to do

[Column 3]
so by the most feminine methods; she gives
in her books clear, logic, brilliant sarcasm,
arguments that clinch the facts, and show
plainly the impropriety of women taking
care of debauched husbands, from a delicate
sense of duty; the terrible consequences of
bringing into the world the offspring of
such marriages, the nauseous pleas that
excuse the man and condemn the woman
guilty of the same offense, the foolish van-
ty of society mothers, who urge their
daughters, innocent and pure, to marry for
wealth and position, or rank and title; she
vigorously portrays in tragic pen pictures,
the extreme agony and suffering; the
hideous crimes society perpetrates even in
married life, to avoid scandal and preserve
the usual conventionalities that custom and
fashionable life require. She holds up a
perfect moral, ideal standard to guide
humanity, shows that man must and can
bring to the marriage altar as unspotted
a record as he demands from the bride.
It is the doctrine of our own church as we
all know, though the world will not re-
ceive it from a “Mormon.” She has cer-
tainly displayed deep and keen intuition,
and a true realization of the corrupt condi-
tion that underlies what is termed modern,
fashionable society. Her keen appreciation
of humor is also noticable in some of the
scenes she depicts, but the dominant
characteristic is her intense sympathy with
the pains of the world.
	Ideala a book written previous to the
“Heavenly Twins,” presents a most
exalted type of perfect and well-rounded
womanhood, light-hearted, pure-souled
and extremely sensitive, married to a man
of low, moral nature, from whom the law
gives her no means of escape except in
disgrace. These two books are truly
Studies From Life, as the author herself
has styled them.
	Sarah Grand is of English parentage
though through her father she has a trace
of French blood, on her mother’s side she
is of North Country Stock, and Quaker
descent on both, her maternal grandfather
however was turned out of the Society
of Friends because he would hunt; the
writer was born in Ireland where her
father was quartered in command of a
naval station, her two brothers “true to
to the family tradition went into the Royal
Navy:” she says of herself that she was
brought up on Punch and the Saturday
Review, both published in London. She
left school at sixteen, and was married im-
mediately after to an officer in the army
whom she accompanied to the East,
through Malta, Egypt and Ceylon, to China
and Japan. She has produced many short
stories previous to her books, in fact while
writing them, which are said to be perfect
little works of art. “Kane” the disrepre-
table, lovable, old soldier-servant, “Janey”
the Lancashire cripple girl, “Boomillan”
the ineffectual, “Ah Man” the Chinaman,
“The Yellow Leaf” and “Eugenia;”
another effort in ordinary fiction was en- 
titled “Singularly Deluded,” in all these
her characters are never weak, the senti-
mental young man or yearning female, but
portray the real heroism of human endur-
ance. Such books are better calculated to
inspire those who read them to higher ex-
cellence, and certainly every intelligent
young woman might read with profit before
marriage, Ideala and the Heavenly Twins
for her own enlightenment. Like many
other women Sarah Grand feels she has a
special message to deliver.


[Column 1]
	Jean Ingelow, whose books are great
favorites with both the English and
American people, is undoubtedly one of
the finest, purest and most sympathetic
poets of our day. Her life too has been
like a rhthymical poem set to sweet music.
Her girlhood was passed in an atmosphere
of goodness, with books and cultivated
people for daily companionship. We
realize from what we know of her, that
she is a beautiful type of womanhood; she
has never married, though without doubt
she has enshrined in her heart some
memories of the past that beautify her soul,
and gladden her lonely life. Whoever has
read her books must necessarily feel how
vividly she describes nature, especially the
sea, and with what reverence, purity and
tenderness her work is interwrought.
“The High Tide on the Coast of Lincoln-
shire,” and “The Songs of Seven” are
among her best poems, though there are
other favorites, some lovers of poetry may
prefer “Divided,” “The Four Bridges”
and “The Two Margarets” are perhaps 
equally good and as truly poetical. Her
prose works are all meritorious, the best so
considered entitled “Off the Skilligs” is a
novel, with a soul in it, it imparts an in-
fluence superior to momentary enjoyment,
presents cheerful views of life and modestly
exalts nobility of character; it is a delight-
ful book. “Mopsa the Fairy” is a charm-
ing fairy story, and she has written several
other children’s books; one called “A
Sister’s Bye Hours,” containing seven
stories. Miss Ingelow is intensely
benevolent and for many years has given at
her home in London, three times a week,
what she calls her "copyright dinner," to
which she invites twelve needy persons,
generally those who have just been dis-
missed from the Hospitals. Jean Ingelow
was born in Boston, England, of English
Scotch ancestry; her London house is in
Kensington, crowned with ivy in the midst
of a garden, half-hidden by trees; she
spends her summers in the South of France
in a cottage over looking the Meditteranean.
	“Traffic in Girls” and the “Florence Crit-
tenden Missions" is one of the most power-
fully written books of the day. It is by
Charlton Edholm (her full name is Mary
Gow Charlton Edholm) the book deals with
the social purity question and reveals the
pitfalls before our girls; it shows the cruel
injustice of man-made laws in such a way
that every woman who thinks deeply
should be a determined woman suffragist—
if for no other reason than to right the in-
famous wrongs that exist in all our large
cities viz. the age of consent, and other
equally demoralizing influence of the
double standard of morals. It gives a
chapter from the Pall Mall Gazette a
revelation to show the frightful condition
of moral leprosy which exists today. Mrs.
Edholm has written much material for
newspapers descriptive articles for Chicago
Tribune, St. Louis Post Dispatch, and
New York World, The Republican and
Inter Ocean and is one of the suffrage and
press women with whom I am somewhat
acquainted. Her labors and her literary
works are so varied, and so great and many,
that it is not possible to mention them by
name in this paper. I must pass on to one
or two more leading lights in the books of
the day; but in this connection I ought cer-
tainly to mention Helen H. Gardener’s two
books. “Is This Your Son My Lord?”
said to be the most powerfully written novel
by an American. A terrible expose of

[Column 2]
conventional immorality and hypocrisy
the other “Pray You Sir Whose Daughter?”
A brillant novel of today dealing with
social purity, and the age of consent.
	Margaret Deland whose maiden name
was Campbell, is one of my special favorites.
Harper's Magazine and The Century
gladly publish her poems, “The Old
Garden and Other Verses,” is one of the
best books in our libraries of today, the
volume has gone through six editions.
Her most popular work was “John Ward
Preacher” a novel which passed through
six editions in five months, a later novel
“Sidney” and a descriptive work “Florida
Days” are also well received; she writes
short stories for magazines principally the
Atlantic Monthly and Longman's Maga-
zine published in Boston, all her writings
are popular and the public look forward to
them with delightful anticipation. Mrs.
Deland was born in Pittsburg Feb. 23, in
1857—was married in 1880 to Louis F.
Deland and moved to Boston, Mass. which
has since been her home, her husband is
also inclined to literature and is of great
assistance to her, in her work.
	Margaret Elizabeth Sangster, another
notable writer and poet, is a regular con-
tributor to many leading periodicals and
has done much editorial work on news-
papers, she edited Harper's Young People
at one time, and in 1890, became editor of
Harper's Bazaar which position she still
occupies. Her books are extensively read,
principal among them are “Poems of the
Household” “Home Fairies and Heart
Flowers,” and a series of Sunday School
Books. During all her busy years she
has written poems of a high order. All
her works have a decidedly high moral
tone and are helping to make the world
better. Mrs. Sangster was born in New
Rochelle, New York, in 1838, her maiden
name was Munson married in 1858—
George Sangster. Mrs. Sangster author
and editor is a conspicuous personage in
the literary and social circles in New York.
Her home is in Brooklyn. Her household
consists of several relatives among them
her grand-children of her dead son and
step-daughter.
	The poems and books of Louise Chand-
ler Moulton are widely circulated and read
with intense interest in England as well as
America. Her first book “This That and
the Other” appeared in 1854, it sold won-
derfully, “Juno Clifford” appeared in
1855, she has brought out many books,
both in England and her own country, too
many to mention here even by title "Some
Women’s Hearts,” “Miss Eyre from Bos-
ton,” “Ourselves and Our Neighbors,”
“Random Rambles,” will give you some
idea; besides books she writes narratives
and sketches, and from 1870 to 1876 she
was the Boston literary correspondent of
the New York Tribune and for nearly five
years wrote a weekly letter on bookish
topics for the Boston Sunday Herald. But
it is to her two volumes of poems I par-
ticularly wish to call your attention.
“Swallow Flights” and “In the Garden of
Dreams” one thousand copies of the last
named were sold in twelve days. Her
literary reputation rests, it is said, and it
ought to upon her poetry. Mrs. Moulton
is in herself the dedicated and conscientious
poet “whose wares are marketable, and
even popular, some critics place her son-
nets at the head of their kind in America.”
Certainly to me, her poetry is golden, rich,
and full of impassioned melody, emotions,

[Column 3]
reveries, with a note of melancholy sweet-
ness. Since the death of Phillip Bourke
Marston in 1887, she has edited two
volumes of his verses “Garden Secrets”
and “A Last Harvest,” and is now en-
gaged on editing his poetical works as a
whole. Louise Chandler was born in
Pomfret, Connecticut, April 5, 1835, she
married William U. Moulton, a well-known
Boston journalist. She has spent sixteen
consecutive summers in Europe, and is as
much at home in London, as in America;
she is one to whom all circumstances are
kind, and whom success has never spoiled,
and is a most enviable figure among
American women of letters. She is pos-
sessed of a gracious nature and has always
been much sought after. Many young
writers have had from her encouragement
and sympathy, and some rank almost as
her own household for she has but one 
daughter who is in her own home far
away,
	The newest and most popular book since
Marcella (of which Mrs. Thomas told you) ,
is “Margaret Salisbury," by Mary Hol-
land Lee. The public are enthusiastic
over this new book, there are many pas-
sages in it like a fine etching, the critics
say it is even better than “The Heavenly
Twins,” though by an American author
the situations are aome of them not parallel
but similar, and although Madame Grand
did her work well the scenes in Margaret
Salisbury are made much clearer, sharper 
and more vivid. There is a beauty in the
story that appeals to healthy men and wo-
men, the author feels and knows that this
life is not all, yet loves the common things
of earth, and has a sympathy for the lowly
and the everyday, that marks the lofty soul.
In this book too the sea is a consolation, a
sympathetic power, the nightingale pours
forth a love plaint, one hears the leaves
stir, and the hum of bees, and the faint
odor of wind-blown roses, and above it all
the blue sky. I am sorry I have not more
time to tell you of the many new books
that seem to make such an impress on the
times in which we live—and sorry too, not
to touch upon our home authors and poets;
but I trust those who follow me will not
forget Eliza R. Snow, Bishop O. F. Whit-
ney, Hannah T. King, Emily H. Wood-
mansee, Henry W. Naisbett and others in 
due course of time.
E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

LONDON RELIEF SOCIELY.
	President, Sister E. Bradford; First
Counselor, S. F. Jennings; Second Counse- 
lor, Mrs. Francis; Secretary, Mrs. Francis;
Number of members, 8; Visits made by
sisters, 33; Last year’s members left for
Zion, 2; Cottage meetings, 3; Collections
for poor and Elders room £12. 18s 8½d; Paid
to poor and for elders room, £12. 14s 11½d;
Balance in hand, 3s 9d.

SNOWFLAKE, ARIZONA.
	THE Relief Society conference of this
stake was held at Snowflake May 26th 1894.
There was a tolerably good attendance of
the sisters. President Emma S. Smith and
her counselors were present. There was a
short program, consisting of lectures on
the subjects, “Faith,” “Repentance” and
Baptism.” Verbal reports were given by
the presidents of most of the branches.


[Column 1]
All are trying to live their religion and aid
all they can in the great work.  A good
spirit is manifested by the sisters whenever
the teachers visit them.
	President Jesse N. Smith made some re-
marks on home industry, and urged the
sisters to use care in the preparation of
food.  Also spoke of their using good taste
in the adornment of their persons, but
suggested that whenever practicable it
should be the workmanship of their own
hands.
	There was a meeting of the sisters held
in the evening of May 27.  Remarks were
made by a number of the visiting sisters.
The subjects of home manufacture and the
purchase of a carding machine were touch-
ed upon by all the speakers.  The sisters
voted to assist all they could in purchasing
a carding machine.
	President Emma S. Smith made closing
remarks. Hoped we would be more self-
sustaining in the future. 
			DELLA FISH,
					Stake Secretary.

SPRINGVILLE MEETING.
	ON June 14th the  W. S. A. presided 
over by Sarah A. Boyer, held a meeting at
Springville at which Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Zina D. H. Young, L. John Nuttall, 
Brother Kelsey and others addressed the
audience on the question of woman and
her responsibilities.
	An interesting feature of the programme
was a recitation by Miss Nellie Boyer, "Our
Jamie,” which brought tears to many.
	At 2 p. m. the Relief Society presided over
by Mrs. E. Packard was addressed by the
above named ladies and Brother Nuttall,
after which a number took the 4:04 train to
Castila, returning at 3 next morning.
	The elegant supper, the baths, etc., were
highly appreciated by the company.
			NETTIE CRANDALL, Sec.

ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of St. Joseph Stake,
met in conference on Friday March 9th
1894, in the meeting house at Thatcher.
President Wilmirth East presided.  Meet-
ings were held at 10. a. m. and 2. p. m.
Present on the stand of the presiding
priesthood were Presidents Layton and
Johnson, Patriarch P. C. Merrill and
Bishop Claridge of Thatcher.  President
East made a few opening remarks in which
she expressed her thankfulness for the
health of the people generally, and the
beautiful weather which had permitted so
many to meet together; testified of the evil
which is abroad in the land and exhorted
the sisters to diligence in the performance
of their duties.  Suggested the reading of
the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine and Cov-
enants in the Society meetings, explained the
duties of Relief Society teachers and
emphasized the importance of visiting the
sick and destitute, whether Jew or Gentile,
urged the societies to keep on hand material
for the burying of the dead.
	Verbal reports were given from the follow-
ing branches of the Society, Thatcher,
Pima, Layton, Central, Graham, Mathews,
Bryce and Curtis, which showed them in
good condition with an increased attendance
during the last quarter with one or two
exceptions.
	President C. Layton said the sisters this
morning have taught us life and salvation.
All should be cared for especially those born
heirs to the kingdom.  The young of both

[Column 2]
sexes should be very choice in their selec-
tion of companions for life.
	The names of the officers of the Central
Board and Stake were presented by the
secretary and unanimously sustained by
the congregation.  Counselor Mary L.
Ransom, spoke on the observance of the
laws of life and health, economy and in-
dustry, the influence of the mother over her
offspring etc. The meeting then closed un-
til 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session:  The speakers were
Sisters Cluff, Warren, Ransom and Patria-
arch P. C. Merrill, who spoke in behalf of
his wife, Syrena first counselor to President
East, who was detained at home in conse-
quence of ill health, also Sister Nancy
Rollins and President East.  The subjects
spoken on in the morning were referred to
and enlarged upon, particularly that of the
responsibility of the mother in the rearing
and training of her children.  Conference
adjourned for three months.  Benediction
by G. W. Williams.
				SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.

			 WASATCH STAKE.
Editor Exponent:
	THE semi-annual Conference of the Re-
lief Society of Wasatch Stake, convened in
the meeting house at Midway, May 31st
1894, at ten o’clock a. m. and 2 p. m. 
President Emma Brown and Counselors be-
ing present, also President Hatch and L.
H. Giles of the Stake Presidency, Bishop
Watkins of Midway, Bishop N. C. Mur-
dock of Charleston and several other Elders.
The singing exercises during the Conference
were very creditably rendered under the
leadership of Elder John Huber of Mid-
way.  Conference was opened at 10 o’clock
by singing, “Softly beams the sacred
dawning etc.”  Prayer by Bishop N. C.
Murdock. Singing, “My God the spring
of all my joys etc.”  The roll was called
twenty officers being present.  The minutes
of the morning session of the last con-
ference were read and accepted.  President
Brown made a few opening remarks, after
which all the branches except two were re-
presented as being in a very favorable con-
dition, those reporting also bore strong
testimonies to the truth of the Latter-day
work and the benefit of the Relief Society.
Counselor Sarah Alexander spoke a short
time, and after singing conference was ad-
journed till 2 p. m.  Benediction by Elder
Conrad Abbegglen.
	Afternoon Session: Meeting opened at
2 p. m. by singing, “Earth with her ten
thousand flowers.”  Prayer by Elder Wm.
Daybell sen.  Singing by choir and con-
gregation, “The spirit of God like a fire is
burning.”  The minutes of the afternoon
session of former conference were read and
accepted.  The statistical and financial re-
port for the six months ending February
28th, was also read and accepted.  President
Brown spoke encouragingly of the reports
as rendered, also gave some very good and
timely counsel to the sisters.  Stake Presi-
dent of the Primary Association, Sister Ann
Murdock, related some of her experiences,
spoke of being present at the first meeting
of the Relief Society held in Salt Lake City,
and said one sister there spoke in tongues
and the interpretation given was that this
society should extend throughout the
mountains, said this was literally fulfilled to
day, also gave good counsel to the mothers
and bore a strong testimony to the truth of
Mormonism. Counselor Mary Daybell made

[Column 3]
some encouraging remarks. Bishop N. C.
Murdock, Counselor T. H. Giles, Bishop
Watkins and President Hatch each made
very interesting and encouraging remarks.
President Hatch presented the Stake Offlcers
of the Society and they were all unanimous-
ly sustained. Sister Brown thanked all
who had in any way helped to make this
conference such a success as it had been and
adjourned the conference for six months.
Singing,  “Know this that every soul is
free.”  Benediction by Bishop Watkins.
		HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.
	MEETING of the U. W. P. C. held at the
office of Dr. E. R. Shipp, May 31st, 1894,
President E. R. Shipp in the chair.
Prayer by E. B. Wells. Roll call responded
to with quotations from Pope. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved. Miss
Gladys Woodmansee gave a lecture upon
the subject of psychology, M. E. Shipp
gave a vocal selection. A poem written by
E. R. Shipp was read by Mrs. C. Louise
Boydon, Dr. R. B. Pratt read a paper on
theosophy. A recitation was given by
Ellis Shipp. President Shipp referred to
the visit of the U. W. P. Association and
some items of interest she had gleaned
from them. Dr. E. B. Ferguson, club
critic gave criticism upon the various
numbers of the evening program, said
she was sorry that the lecture on Feeling
had not been given before the Will where
it belonged, as Will is the king faculty of
the mind and had it been given as the
climax, we could better realize its true
position in the mind.
	After benediction, refreshments were
served and the usual informal chat was in-
dulged in until time for adjournment.
	Program for June 30th: Woman’s Press
Clubs, L. S. Dickinson; Pen Women, E. B.
Wells; Thirty minutes discussion on
Theosophy, by the members; Music, C. L.
Boyden; Original poem, Mary A. Freeze;
Quotations from the writings of Emerson.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


W. S. A.
	MINUTES of the W. S. A. held June 19,
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall.
First Vice President Adella W. Eardley in
the chair, Sang, “Come Away.” Prayer
by E. M. Price. Sang “America.” Roll
called, minutes of April and May read and
approved. Mary Lois Morris read E.
R. Snow’s poem, on “Nationality.”
Speech from Zerviah T. Eardley, had
her name enrolled in the organization,
was a firm believer in Woman’s Rights, we
inform our minds upon all subjects. Wo-
man’s influence is felt, was connected with
Young Ladies and the Relief Society, but
thought home duties should come first,
with management we can spare time for
many things, women should have the right
to vote, and when doing the same work as
man should have the same pay; then read a
poem entitled “What woman makes man.”
Third Vice President Julia Druce made
some excellent remarks. Second Vice
President E. M. Price read from the Wo-
man's Journal, a piece on Elections. Dr.
Ferguson referred to an article read, and
explained many points in regard to what
can be done through legal quibbles; referred
to the actions of some Governors who had
been elected for the Populist Party, also to


the large amount of Italian dagos who are
being brought to this country who are tak-
ing the work from honest workmen. Utah
is likely to become a state and should go in
on the platform of Equal Suffrage.
Ruth M. Fox read an excellent piece show-
ing the equality of sex from the Bible.
	President MacFarlane showed from the 
Bible many instances where destruction had
come from not respecting women. We
like strong, true reliable men, let us as-
sociate with no other. Adjourned until
July. Benediction M. E. Irvine. 
				M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MRS. SORENSON’S CLASS.
	THE Woman’s Reform class met in con-
ference at the meeting house at 10 a. m.,
Friday, in Provo. Sister Hannah Sorenson
presiding.
	Sister Keeler made the opening address.
She was pleased to see the interest taken in
this great work. This class started with
only twenty members, now there are about
that many associations. She felt to give
them all a hearty welcome, and prayed God
to aid those who were called upon to take
part.
	Reports were given by the presidents of
the five permanent organizations—Lehi,
Sister Standring; Pleasant Grove, Sister
Eliza Brown; Springville, Sister Hafen;
Provo, Sister Mecham; American Fork,
Sister Clark. The work of Spanish Fork
and Payson were reported by Sister Soren-
sen, there being in attendance sixty-one and
forty four respectively. Out side of the
regular work, Sister Sorensen has intro-
duced a class for young girls, between the
ages of ten and fourteen, instructions being
given on Hygiene, Morals and Manners,
etc., suitable to their ages and ability.
	A hymn was sung by the congregation
after which a very creditable paper on
“Social Purity’’ was read by Sister Stand-
ring of Lehi. Following this was an essay
by Eliza Brown on “Woman and Reform.’’
Sister Rose Hayes from Pleasant Grove
spoke a short time on “pre-natal influence.”
Dr. Noyes expressed himself as being in
sympathy with this work. Congregation
sang the Doxology. After adjournment the
visitors repaired to the Tabernacle where an
informal lunch was partaken of.
	A large audience was present in the after-
noon.
	After the opening exercises the following
officers were sustained:
	President, Delia I. Booth, Provo; first
counselor, Ida Allen, Provo; second coun-
selor, Mary Ann Webb, Lehi; secretary,
Ivy Sims, Provo; assistant secretary, Zina
Chipman, American Fork; treasurer, Eliza-
beth Hill, Springville.
	Sister Olive Anderson from Springville,
gave a very pleasing and instructive lecture
on “Hygienic Cooking.” Sister Hafen
gave a lecture on “Harmony in Line and
Color,,’ illustrated with a number of
pictures. Sister Ida Allen read an essay on
the unnecessary suffering to which women
are subjected by wrong methods of living.
“The True Healing Art” was ably treated
by Sister Anna Hindley of American Fork.
Sister Katie Cragan, from Smithfield, spoke
a few words. Dr. Allen expressed himself
as being highly pleased with the work of
Reform, and desired to assist in every way.
Brother Henry Tanner spoke well of the
work, and said that no good thing was ever
commenced without opposition. He took


the Savior’s life for an example. Brother
Wossencroft fully endorsed the proceedings
of the class. Sister Susa Gates, Brother
Oscar Young and others spoke a short time.
	The congregation sang “There’s a land
that is fairer than day.”
	Benediction, Brother Boyer. The con-
ference adjourned for one year.


AN ENJOYABLE AFFAIR.

	IT has been a long time perhaps, since
you have heard any thing from this little
town and it may not be out of place to say
that Mrs. Louisa Sanders, Mrs. Mary E.
Marble, Mrs. Eunice Bleak Sanders and
Mrs. Helena Kempe Naegle, were appointed
a committee to get up a surprise, which
took place here on the 19th of May, to
celebrate the birthday of the wife of our
worthy Bishop C. I. Kempe. Sister Olena
Kempe who is counselor in the Kelief
Society and President of the Primary.
Sister Kempe being absent the sisters
thought to surprise her when she returned
at dusk; all was still, she opened the door
of her beautiful parlor and was greeted
with a loud burst of music and song. She
stood transfixed with astonishment.
	Bishop Kempe called the house to order
and offered up a fervent prayer. The young
ladies’ sang, “Oh my father thou that
dwellest.”
	Bishop Kempe stepped forward and said
the young people all liked novels and he
would tell them one, he then related the
early history of his wife, her conversion
to our faith, and her trials, and troubles in
leaving her parents, and her wealthy home in
Norway her native country. A few lines
were then read composed by Mrs. M. P.
Killian telling of Sister Kempe’s many
virtues, describing her worth and goodness,
her kindness to the poor and needy, and to
the sick and suffering.
	A song was then sung by Misses Minnie
and Hattie Bilby. Lines were read com-
posed by Miss Maggie Green. Mrs. Kempe
made a few remarks and welcomed the
company to her home. Mrs. E. I. Pulsipher
sang, “Daughter don’t let mother do it.’’
A recitation by Miss Anna Green. A song
by Mrs. May Pulsipher, Organist. Mrs. E.
Sanders read a piece entitled "Over worked."
Miss O. S. Kempe and George Cheney
sung, “Oh, what shall the harvest be.”
Instrumental music by G. H. Killian and
G. F. Sanders. Reading by Mrs. Loretta
Kempe. Song by Miss Sarah and Louisa
Cheney. Recitation by Miss Julia Curtis,
called “Love and Laughter.”
	A sumptuous supper was laid out in the
dining room which all partook of freely.
After supper there was music, songs and
dancing, the evening closed with prayer by
Brother David Sanders, and all retired to
their homes feeling they had been well
paid. M. P. K.
Erastus Arizona, May 1894.


IN MEMORIAM.

	CHLOE WOOLF, the beloved daughter of Isaac
and Ellen Woolf departed this life, June 6th, 1894,
with heart disease and dropsy, aged sixteen years,
and four days.
	Dearest Chloe thou hast left us
	And our hearts are sorely grieved,
	But there is great consolation,
	From suffering now thou art relieved,
	And we know our Father loveth,
	One so pure, so kind and true,
	And we feel if we are faithful,
	We may sometime, come to you.
COM.


GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.

Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:

[Column 1]
Leave Salt Lake:
*7:45 a.m.
10:20 “
2:00 p.m.
3:00 “
†6:30 “

[Column 2]
Arrive Salt Lake:
12:40 p.m.
*4:00 "
4:40 "
6:10 "
†10:10 "
*Daily except Sunday. †Daily except Monday.
	Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50c.

[Column 1]
S H. H. Clark,
Oliver W. Mink,
E. Ellery Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.

[Column 2]
Receivers.

[Column 3]
D. E. BURLEY
	GEN. AGT. PASS. DPET.

G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils AND Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
	and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DUNFORD'S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON’T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But’
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
			Opp. Grant Bros. Stables

