VOL. 22 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,  JUNE 1, 1894.  No.18.


CONTENTS:

	No Black For Me—Lillie T. Freeze. A Few
Suggestions—I. P. P. Address—Mrs. Margaret
Gaddy. Woman Suffrage Column. Decoration
Day. 'Ladies Semi-monthly Meetings—Lydia D
Alder. R S. Reports. Miscellaneous. Obitu-
ary. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL:—The First Of June. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY:—Where Is My Baby—Alofa. United
—Ellis R. Shipp. “Tis More Blessed To Give
Than Receive”—A. M. Blanchard. Woman Suf-
frage—J. S. Robinson.


[Column 1]
WHERE IS MY BABY. 

WHERE, where is the darling baby boy
	That I left but a fortnight gone by;
Where, where is the boy with the pretty round
	cheek
	And the bright, merry laughing, blue eye? 
There were tears in the eyes of his mother, I 
	know
	When we paused on the bank of the brook
To which she and the baby had wandered with
	me,
	And I saw on her face the sad look— 
As I took Harold up from his carriage and said,
	‘‘Kiss papa, he’s going away—
God bless you and mamma, kiss papa again—
	Now good-by for I must go to day.”
I had noticed I say, the sad look in her eye 
	But I knew duty called me to go,
And I tried to believe it not strange in the least 
	That the parting would trouble her so.
So I took up my satchel and hurried away, 
	With their kisses still warm on my face;
And my bosom still throbbing with joy and with
	pain,
	Both effects of the parting embrace.
Oft I paused to look back as I wandered on,
	And I saw her standing still
By the baby’s carriage, yet unmoved,
	On the bank of that rippling rill,
And she lifted our baby high that he 
	Might see me once again—
Ah! had she a premonition then
	Of this coming hour of pain?
Well, I did not keep them long in sight
For the path was a winding one
	But I kept that picture in my mind
	From morn till the set of sun;
And my heart was full of an honest pride
	In my wife and baby boy,
For them was my whole ambition stirred -
	My life, my hope and joy.
I was not long gone - two weeks or so,
	When a messenger came to say
That my baby was somewhat ailing
	And I'd better come home that day.
Not very ill, he told me,
	But his mother was worried some,
And they fancied she'd feel much better
	In spirit if I were home.
The darkness had long been gathered
	Ere our cottage was in sight—
And my heart just sank within me
	When I saw there was a light
Shining brightly in the window,
	I just dropped my aching head, 
And almost aloud I murmured:
"Ah, my little boy is dead!” 

[Column 2]
And t'was so. His mother met me
	At the door and cried aloud,
“Tom, oh, Tom!” Then sank near fainting;
	And I raised the snowy shroud
From the pale face of our baby,
	Ah, there was no ray of light,
The spirit from that limp cold form
	Had long since taken flight.’’
So I ask, where is the baby
	That I left not long ago?
Hark! a whispering spirit answers
	All my aching heart would know:
"He is safe in angels, keeping—
	You shall meet him yet again,
Just as winning—just as pretty—
	In a world that’s free from pain,
You shall clasp your precious darling
	To your leaping, joyful heart;
And in realms of endless glory
	You shall dwell, no more to part.”
	ALOFA
April 2, 1894


[Column 1]	
	NO BLACK FOR ME.
No black for me, dear love, when I am dead;
	Shroud not that precious face in funeral fold,
But wear a soft white veil upon your head,
	As fits a saintly woman growing old.
No black for me, why, when eternal day
	Has burst in glory on my dazzled sight,
And God’s own angels ear my soul away,
	Should my twin spir[-] bow in woe and night?
Let me be carried from my cheerful home, 
	Like sunshine out of sunshine, flowers from
	flowers; 
Let maids in white and little children come
	And cheer with tender song the lonely hours.
For you will miss me, though some path from
	heaven
May lead straight from my glory to your
	heart; 
And I may come like Jacob’s angels giving
	Some thrill, some joyous message to impart.
So keep the light about you; death is light,
	And life, and power to pure and chastened
	love,
And death is only dark to doubt, and sight
	That has no visions from the world above.
	ALICE ROBBINS.
	The above beautiful poem was written
many years ago, while the custom of wear-
ing deep mourning held absolute sway
among all civilized people, but the writer,
like a true prophetess, caught glimpses of
light from afar. Some spirits are destined 
to be forerunners of the truth in all ages.
And though they may be laughed at or
scorned for expressing sentiments ahead of
the time in which they live, the truth will
be recognized and established in the on ward
march of progress.—“Though learned but
slowly and by few.” Thought on the in-
consistency of this custom of “mourning”
was first awakened in my mind when, but
a child, I heard Mrs. S. M. Kimball, now
Honorary President of the Woman’s Suf-
frage Association of Utah, say in one of 
the sisters’ meetings held in the 14th ward
Assembly Hall, then heavily draped in black
on the occasion of Bishop Hoagland’s
funeral, the somber hangings still remained

[Column 2]
in place, and Sister Kimball remarked that
they had a gloomy and chilling effect upon
the spirits of those present, and she said in
earnest appeal; “When my worn and weary
spirit has entered its rest there will be no
occasion to mourn for me, and please let
the drapery at my funeral be WHITE,” My
judgment approved her choice, and I have
watched with satisfaction the growth of
this sentiment among the Latter-day Saints
whose faith teaches them to mourn with a
“glorious hope.”
	The women of our faith have been called
“the remodelers of society,” and it is true
that we aim to adopt all improvements con-
sistent with the spirit of true progress, and
we are striving to discourage all customs
that have not the support of sound reason. 
We claim to have received, through direct
revelation, superior intelligence regarding
death, and draping ourselves in the folds of
the mourning apparel is not in harmony with
the glorious light and hope beyond the
grave given to us by the religion of Jesus
Christ. Then why should we cling to a
false custom of our forefathers so suggestive
of the dark ages in which it originated?
	In a recent number of the EXPONENT I
read with interest the following paragraph:
“A dispatch from London says:—One of
the  largest conferences in the interest of
funeral reform ever held opened in West-
minister. It is under the auspices of the
Burial, Funeral and Mourning Reform As-
sociation, and its object is to advocate the
exercise of economy and simplicity in all
funeral appurtenances, and the disuse of
crape scarfs, feathers, velvet trappings and
similar emblems of mourning.” Perhaps
the beautiful example of Henry Ward
Beecher has had some influence in forming
or reforming public opinion on this subject. 
It was his request that a wreath of flowers
instead of crape be hung on the door of his
residence after his death, that the blinds re-
main up and the rooms be lighted, and at
his funeral his family should appear in their
usual Sunday attire. Instead of the cus-
tomary dismal drapery of his casket, it was
laid in a bed of white flowers. To be con-
sistant with our belief we, as a people,
should gather the bright and beautiful about
us, and when sorrow enters our hearts and
homes it is our duly to court all cheering
and comforting influences. One young
mother, when asked why she did not wear
mourning at the death of her child, ans-
wered, “Because I feel sorrowful and
gloomy enough without it."
	That grief is most sincere which shuns
observation. There is a natural delicacy in
the human heart, especially of sensitive and
refined natures, which shrinks from exhi-
bitions of great joy or sorrow, and such
would gladly dispense with all the
paraphernalia of mourning, but have not
the courage to defy a long established
fashion. Is not our sorrow as sacred as our
love? Then why display it to the public
gaze? The idea of fashion limiting the
length of time that we should appear to
mourn for our loved ones! or designating
the intensity thereof by “deep mourning,”
“half mourning” etc, as our fashionable


[Column 1]
woman in describing her grief for “her late
lamented husband” said “my grief was
so intense that the hem of my veil was half
a yard deep and touched the bottom of my
dress!” Delicacy would suggest retaining
the only part of the mourning apparel of
any utility, the veil, which however need not
necessarily be black, and its service is of no
avail if worn fluttering down the back, as
the present style demands. As for mourn-
ing ornaments, who ever saw black flowers?
Fashion and style may outrage nature, while
true art imitates it; and to wear black
flowers is in my opinion an insult to the
lovely hued flowery kingdom, none of which
were ever known to turn black even on the
most solemn occasion—the death of their
own kindred. While I deem it a duty to
seek consolation and happiness from all 
sources, and place ourselves under pleasant 
and cheerful influences, I have mentally ex-
claimed, “Consistency thou art a jewel!”
while watching stylish mourning suits with
crape trimming gracefully waving through
the gay dance, while the smiling faces of
the wearers betoken more joy than sorrow.
	On pleasure excursions and at places of
public amusement the mourning dress ap-
pears out of season. When one's feelings
are under sufficient control to allow the
habitual mingling in gay society, good taste
and sincerity would suggest the wearing
of a more suitable costume. There are
many good reasons for discarding this
fashion. How often does it mislead in re-
gard to the feelings which it is supposed to
portray? For instance, one widow whose
matrimonial experiences has been one scene
of conflict, unmarked by respect or affection,
and perhaps while sueing for a divorce,
death kindly releases her instead of the
law, while her neighbor loses a congenial
affectionate partner and is overwhelmed
with genuine grief. Both wear mourning.
Which is the mourner? The heart broken
mother lays her dearest treasure in the
grave, and the woman, who has waited
impatiently for the death of some distant
relative whose money she will inherit, both
don mourning. Which one mourns?
	Then the expense and inconvenience of
the custom is enough to relegate it to the
past, especially by the masses. The sup-
port of the family is taken away, sickness
has already incurred debt which the family
must still increase by getting the mourning
outfit, or be considered lacking in respect
for the dead. Extra and unnecessary ex-
penses are thus laid upon the widow when
she is least able to sustain the expense
which must become an injustice to children
among the poor, for the purchase of the
mourning outfit would, in some instances,
be sufficient to pay a year’s schooling for a
family. Can a wife or daughter show re-
spect for a husband or father by bowing to
the dictates of this fashion, while the name
of the deceased is whispered hopelessly
among his creditors?
	Above all things, let us not crush the
natural, carefree cheerfulness of the chiidren
between the folds of this dismal garb, after
any sorrow, help them to recover a happy
frame of mind as quickly as possible.
Children’s grief often arises from witnessing
that of others. Sad realities will come soon
enough to check their fountain of happiness.
Let it flow while it can without restraint.
It may require some effort for parents to
entirely abandon the custom of wearing
mourning, when they have been taught
from childhood to regard it as a necessity in

[Column 2]
bereavement, but we have come out of
Babylon to rear our children in the light of
revelation, let us keep their minds free from
traditions and prejudices born of ignorance
and superstition. Let reason, good taste,
and a delicate sense of the appropriate on all
occasions be our guide, and let each person’s
individuality assert itself where matters of
the heart are concerned.
	I know many noble, brave women who
have mourned their beloved dead with the
most acute sense of loss and bereavement,
yet wore no outward symbol of the grief
within, and can sensible people honor them
less for possessing delicacy and refinement
that cannot be overcome by that whimsical
monarch, Dame Fashion? We are one with
those who are courageous enough to brave
public opinion and maintain a respectful
disregard for the long established custom of
wearing mourning, and will not help to
perpetuate the growing tendency to un-
necessary expense and display at the
funerals of our loved ones.
	“Bury me quietly when I die.”
	LILLIE T. FREEZE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
A FEW SUGGESTIONS.
Editor Exponent:
	SOME time ago there was an article in the
EXPONENT about “Crowded Out” women
or mothers without homes of their own.
	Reading and knowing something about
aged mothers, and mothers who are
crowded out of homes, as it were, but are
not so well situated in this world as to have
homes of their own, as the writer has; now
she is in the evening of life and a blessing
for which she feels very thankful to her
Father in heaven, and esteems it as a very
great and inestimable blessing. I wish
there were more women and mothers that
could say the same, I know there might be
a great many more, if they had husbanded
their spare means, those that were blest
with any, for a future day; but a gre a
many have carried out the Irishman’s
policy, he said, “if he never laid anything
up for a rainy day it would never come,”
and a great many have to bear the conse-
quence of so doing; its very hard for them
after raising large families to man and wo-
manhood. I heard of one grandma los-
ing her husband, her natural protector, he
had been very good to her and to their
children while living; after his death she
was soon obliged' to admit she was too old
to live alone, well she began to think she
could be useful in some of her children’s
families, to pay for her board, but
she was soon made to see that none of her
children to whom she had given the best
part of her life, welcomed her into their
families, and if they did take her in, it
was on certain conditions. One would say
"I have trouble enough already with my own
family without caring for her, let some of
the others take her,’’another one would say
“I have had more than my share already.”
The daughter-in-law said “if she married the
son she did not marry the mother, and
could not be bothered with her, their tastes
were so different." Her daughter said she was
both willing and able to take care of her
mother but her husband was not—he
thought she was a little disagreeable. The
writer begins to think by this time that
grandma has had trouble enough with one
and another of her children to make her a
little disagreeable.

[Column 2]
	I am afraid such doings would have
made me, so I am not quite so angelic yet. I
think the tie between a mother and her
children ought to be more of a divine nature
than this appears.
	How do such heartless or rather thought-
less sons or daughters know but that their
children will treat them so when they grow
old, with such an example set before them
it would hardly be reasonable to expect any-
thing else; let such parents try and cultivate
a little more sense or reason where its
needed, and try to insure for themselves an
easier time in the future by showing their
children how grandparents ought to be
treated, for much more may be learned by
example than precept.
	Then there are children that think their
mothers are very plain and homely looking,
then they must begin to manoeuver a little
to keep her in the back ground all they
can, they forget to think that she was in
her young days handsome before those
wrinkles and furrows came into her face,
through the sacrifices she had to make by
toiling early and late to make them com-
fortable and to get a little education for
them. Yes indeed some of them will say,
“mighty little education we got to what
some others did," they forget to reckon the
difference there is in the circumstances of
different families, and some mothers are
snubbed by their children for not doing
better than they did by them; let them try
and do better if they can to their children,
under the same circumstances, that their
mothers labored under in raising them.
	We are aware there are some mothers
that do not do as well by their children as
they might have done, but they are the ex-
ception not the rule; we feel to sympathize
with mothers that have such children and
that are ‘‘crowded out,” as it were, or with-
out  homes of their own and, no means of
their own to support themselves with; it is
much better nowadays than it once was for
the aged and infirm, none need to suffer for
the necessaries of life to sustain themselves,
with particularly those that belong to the
household of faith. I am growing old
myself, but I do not think it any disgrace
to do so, but I do think there is much hon-
or to those that can look back on a well
spent life, but a great many aged ones feel, 
While passing through the storm.
	The piercing bitter blast;
But oh, how sweet will be the calm,
	When all their cares are  pased.
	Let us one and all put away evil and
cultivate the gifts and graces of the Gospel
of Jesus Christ, and cherish the pure love
of God in our hearts, and always remem-
ber that we are very far from that perfection
we hope to attain to, and remembering
that real happiness consists in trying to
make others so, and in so doing, don’t for-
get the aged and “crowded out” mothers,
as it were.
	A mother, but not a crowded out or
homeless one, I P. P.


MRS. CHARLES HENROTIN,  of Chicago,
has received from the Sultan of Turkey
the decoration of the Order of Chefakat.
This is the second highest decoration in the
Ottoman Empire, and it was conferred upon
Mrs. Henrotin because of her services to
Turkey as vice-president of the Woman's
Branch of the World's Congress Auxiliary.
This is Mrs. Henrotin's second recognition
by a foreign sovereign, and it is intimated
that she will soon receive a third decoration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


UNITED.
[To Mr. and Mrs. Earnest White, from their
sincere friend.]
Sparkling and clear, at the head of the mountain,
Rise two little streams, each from its own foun-
tain;
Yet gradually nearer, as onward they go,
Now in one common course together they flow.
Environed by banks that will not break o’er,
’Till at last they have found the ocean’s far shore,
Each lost in the other, now they are one;
United together, till life’s-work is done.
Two beautiful lives on the roadway of time,
Beginning so early round each other to twine,
Growing dearer and fonder, year after year,
Sharing each pleasure as well as each tear;
At the altar of faith, united and sealed,
“Unto life eternal”—by powers revealed! 
Their hopes, their misson, their lives are now
one:
United even after this life is done.
In love, with a blessing, we fervently pray,
That their aims ne’er diverge, nor their love go
astray;
Reinforced by each other’s ne’er ceasing aid
Ever faithful and true in sunshine and shade!
May these lives, as those streams, ever flowing
together,
Remain undivided, in clouds and fair weather,
Together move onward to rapture divine,
Eternally joined in the ocean of time.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Oct. 1893, Salt Lake City.


“TIS MORE BLESSED TO GIVE THAN
RECEIVE.”

POVERTY and want are abroad in the land,
	The widow and orphan are here,
There’s a chance to do good for the liberal,
		hand,
	And to dry up the sad mourner's tear.
The Savior said, when here on the earth, 
	And his words I most firmly believe,
I esteem them of value, I deem them of worth
	“Tis more blessed to give than receive.”
If fortune has lavished upon thee her wealth,
	Thou art bless’d in thy “basket and store,”
With plenty to eat, enjoyment of health,
	Forget not to succor the poor.
Thy neighbor may be, in his poverty,
	More wretched than thou would’st believe.
Remember if he asks a favor of thee,
	’Tis more blessed to give than receive.
O, I have not enough, some will say,
	To keep up appearance and style,
If I give this away, I may need it some day,
	So I think I shall keep it awhile.
This is not the spirit of Jesus I trow,
	They who think thus themselves do deceive,
For the Savior he taught in his mission below,
	’Tis more blessed to give than receive.
Remember these precepts, and by them do live,
	Let charity dwell in thy breast,
Be thou ever ready and willing to give
	To the needy, the sick and distressed,
If the beggar should ask for bread at thy door, 
	Be sure that his wants you relieve,
He lends to the Lord who gives to the poor,
	’Tis more blessed to give than receive.
						A. M. BLANCHARD.


A GOOD book is one that tells, in good
English, its story: sees no necessity for
using foreign words, and does not quote
from the Arabic or the Sanscrit, as if the
author had written it with the “Ency-
clopedia Britannica” beside him.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS

MRS. MARGARET GADDY.
	Mrs. President and Ladies:—I am
pleased to meet with you today, although I
did not come with the calculation of mak-
ing a speech; but I always respond to any
call made upon me to speak in behalf of
woman, and their great deeds; for their
footsteps can be traced from prehistoric
times to the present, although she has
worked under great disadvantages. It can
be shown that among all primitive people, 
she was the originator of most of the
industrial arts, and when they became
lucrative, man appropriated them, and wo-
man was pushed aside. While man, the pro-
tector, was engaged in fighting and hunt-
ing, woman constructed the rude
semblance of a home; she dressed the game
and cooked it; she ground the grain between
two stones and made the bread; she dressed
the skins of animals and fashioned them
into awkward garments. Impelled by the
necessity for its use, she invented the
needle. She twisted the fibers of plants in-
to thread. She invented the shuttle and
used it in weaving fabrics, in which she
often mingled feathers, wool and down,
which contributed both to the beauty and
warmth of it. She was the first potter and 
moulder of clay into jars and other utensils
for domestic use, and dried them in the sun.
She originated basket making. She was
the first to give encouragement to Columbus
after he had solicited aid for years from
man. She shamed man into doing his duty,
by offering to  pawn her jewels, then she
was pushed aside. Man said, “No, keep
your jewels, this is our business; and we
will attend to it.” She stepped aside, but
watched with great anxiety the progress 
made by man: and when a new country
was found, and men were going to make a
colony, or lay the foundation of a nation,
women were ready to come with them,
knowing that man could never build a
nation without her help. They worked to-
gether a long time, and grew independent.
They paid taxes to mother country, but
were not allowed to say what should be
done with the money that they sent to
their mother country. The men got mad
and the women got mad too. They de-
clared that taxation without representation
was tyranny, and that they would stand
it no longer “No!” said woman, “I
would fight for your independence, and we
will help you.’’ She did help him in every
way she could, and they gained their
independence, and the mother country was
compelled to acknowledge them an in-
dependent nation.
	Then a few men went to themselves to
make a constitution to govern this indepen-
dent nation, but they never asked woman
to go with them. No, woman was pushed
to one side again, and she has been so used
to being pushed back that I believe today
that women are the worst enemies we have
to suffrage.
	John J. Ingalls said when all the women
asked for the ballot they would get it, but
they did’nt wait for all the negroes in the
South to ask for the ballot, but they gave it
to them whether they wanted it or not. I
believe if the women would all be
Democrats the Democratic party would
work for their principles, or, if they would
all be Republicans, the Republican party
would work for their franchise; but let us
be citizens, honest, upright citizens, work-

[Column 2]
ing for the good of the nation and the
whole human family.
	As to the subject before us in regard to
having a plank put in the State Constitu-
tion, I am in favor of it when the proper
time comes. And here I will use the
language of an eminent statesman of old:
“Sink or swim, survive or perish, live or
die, I am for woman suffrage.”


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

W. S. A. 
	MINUTES of W. S. A held at the resi-
dence of Mrs. A. W. McCune, May 15th.
President E. J. MacFarlane in the chair.
Sang “Our Country.” Prayer by M. E.
Bassett. Roll called. Paper on “Mary
Queen of Scotts,” (original,) read by Louise
Badger. Dr. Ferguson urged having par-
lor meetings, more would attend; referred
to an anti-suffrage society formed in New
York, they called themselves “The Butter-
flies,” and we all know butterflies soon
fade and die. Ella W. Hyde offered the
Fourteenth Ward Relief Society Hall as
our future meeting place. After some dis-
cussion it was voted upon and accepted.
Then followed some remarks in regard to
parlor meetings—a number of parlors were
offered, and it was decided to hold one at
Mrs. Lucy B. Young’s on the 29th of the
present month. As this was the last day
of our meeting at Mrs. McCune’s (as the
lady is leaving the city,) sentiments expres-
sive of our gratitude for the use of her
home were then in order. Each one present
responded in an exceedingly pleasing man-
ner. The response of our hostess was in a
peculiarly happy strain, making us feel she 
had been the one to be benefitted.
	Dainty refreshments were then served by
our estimable friend, and the time spent in
a very pleasant manner in conversation
and music.
				M. E. Irvine, Sec.


DECORATION DAY.

	THE New York World of Sunday, April
29th, had very good likenesses of the men
who voted for the woman’s amendment in
the constitutional convention of New York
in 1868. It suggested to me, that some fit-
ting tribute should be paid on “Decoration
Day” to those who for many years have
championed our cause in Congress and the
various State Legislatures. The advocates
of woman’s suffrage should see that the
graves of those who have passed away
are decorated each year with immortelle
wreaths and flowers.
	Soldiers in a great moral warfare, who
must face ridicule and the sneers of the
multitude for generations, must have more
courage and endurance, than those who
face the cannon’s mouth on the field of
battle, for a few hours. Women in all the
States should take some pains to get the
names and photographs of their champions
and have them handsomely framed in groups
and hung in public buildings as  well as in
their own homes, for the admiration of com-
ing generations. If the members of the
present constitutional conventions in New
York and Kansas had the assurance that
they would be thus honored and remember-
ed by their country women, the word
male would no doubt be expunged from
both constitutions. — Elizabeth Cady Stanton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,					JUNE 1, 1894


THE FIRST OF JUNE.

BRIGHAM YOUNG'S ANNIVERSARY

	THIS the first day of June is quite a red-
letter day among our people, on account of
its being the anniversary of the birthday of
Brigham Young, who presided over the
Church so many years and was also truly a
Moses unto this people, a pioneer and leader
into these mountain vales, where he found-
ed towns and cities, and established order
and maintained peace. It is useless to at-
tempt to recount his good deeds, his enter-
prise, his great leadership, his power and
ability in organization, extending into every
department of progression.
	Let his memory be kept ever fresh and
green by our children and children’s child-
ren.
	His family have issued invitations to all
the relatives of the illustrious departed
President to gather in the parlors of the
historic Lion House and perpetuate his
memory and the family traditions by as-
sociating themselves together, and becom-
ing better acquainted with each other, and
the history of their ancestry. It is a beau-
tiful tribute to the departed hero and vener-
ated Saint.
	The children of this people should be
taught to observe his birthday anniversary,
and those who have charge of the young
as instructors might arrange fitting amuse-
ments and testimonials to be observed, and
keep the day in remembrance.
	The Primary Associations have some of
them made it a holiday instead of May day,
because of the weather being more
propitious for out-door enjoyment, and also
as an ovation (so to speak) to one to whom
we are all of us more or less indebted for
the great pioneer work, that made this
country habitable for us and a desirable
place to dwell in. The illumination of the
Salt Lake Temple in honor of the day was a
part of the program, and music, speeches,
song and recitations were rendered by the
family. In our next issue of the paper
some further notice will be made of the
proceedings.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE annual meeting of the Relief Society
of South Cottonwood was held in the
meeting house, May 17th, Mrs. Mary Raw-
lins presiding. The hall was pretty well
filled and the annual reports made a very
good showing: Bishop Rawlins was present

[Column 2]
and gave the sisters great credit for the
relief given to those in needy circumstances
and their general labors, spiritual and tem-
poral.
	TUESDAY, April 24th, we attended the an-
nual meeting of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the
7th Ward of this city, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas
presiding. The hall was tastefully ar-
ranged and the decorations were superb,
flowering plants and early fruit blossoms.
Miss Rose Wallace gave a most interesting
sketch of Emma Smith, wife of Joseph the
Prophet, the first President of the Relief
Society. Other speakers were, Sisters M. I.
Horne, E. S. Taylor, M. Y. Dougall and
E. B. Wells. Refreshments were delicious
and gracefully served by the young girls.
Certainly the Young Ladies Association in
the seventh Ward is making great
spiritual progress.
	THE Woman’s National Press Associa-
tion, in acknowledging courtesies received
during their trip to the Golden Gate, Mid-
winter Fair, Woman’s Congress etc., pub-
lished in the Washington Times, Washing-
ton D. C., mention in connection with rail-
roads to whom the Association was in-
debted for kindness and liberality, the gene-
rosity of the "Saltair Railroad company at
Salt Lake City for a trip to the noble
pavilion at the Lake,” thanking them with
others for the favor. “Likewise they re-
turn sincere thanks to the Utah Woman’s
Press Club of Salt Lake for its generous
greeting, for a drive throughout the city
and for other courtesies." This notice is
officially signed by Mary S. Lockwood
President and M. E. Torrence, Secretary,
and is published in other leading papers of
the capitol and other places throughout the
country.
	THURSDAY, May 3rd, was the anniversary
of the birthday of two of our dear sisters,
Susan H. Wells and Bathsheba W. Smith,
and as they are intimate friends, a tea party
was given in honor of the day at the resi-
dence of Sisters L. A. and S. H. Wells
which was a very pleasant affair. The
guests were few but all dear old friends,
whose greetings were sincere and heartfelt.
Miss Kate Wells and her sisters Miss May
Wells and Mrs. Annette Culmer did the
honors in a very graceful way, and the
delicacies served at the tea were most de-
licious, and highly appreciated. These old
fashioned home-like visits are far more
enjoyable than the crowded tea parties
where everybody meets everybody and
that’s all. The friends whom one has
known to be ever true in adversity as well
as prosperity, should hold sweet converse
now and then from the busy world apart,
for the saying of George Eliot is indeed true.
	"The deepest hunger of a faithful heart
	Is faithfulness."

	TUESDAY, May 29th, a very enjoyable
dinner party was given by Brother and
Sister Laron Pratt at their residence. The
principal guests present were, President
Woodruff, wife and daughter; President
George Q. Cannon and wife; President
Joseph F. Smith and wife; President Angus
M. Cannon and wife; Dr. J. M. Benedict,
wife, son and daughter; John Q. Cannon
Editor Deseret News, and wife; Sisters Zina
D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, E. B.
Wells, Mrs Thomas Holgate, Mrs John
Cowley, Dr. E. S. Barney and Miss Ada
Patterson. Besides the pleasant social con-
versation and excellent and well served
dinner, there was an appropriate
after-dinner speech by President

[Column 3]
George Q. Cannon, and later, singing
and instrumental music by Miss Maude
Pratt and her sister Hermie, and some
pleasing exercises of the instruction given
to the Deaf and Dumb in that department
of the University and the Sunday School.
Mrs. Annie M. Cannon, gave two very
pleasing recitations in her usual genial style
and manner, but the sweet spirit that was
manifest throughout the entire gathering
was restful and inspiring, and the party as
a whole was a perfect success.
	MONDAY, April 30th, was the quarterly
Conference of the Utah Stake Relief
Society held at Lehi, the President Mrs.
Z. D. H. Young and Mrs. E. B. Wells at-
tended. Arriving at Lehi we found Sister
Mary John with her Counselors and Secre-
tary, Sisters M. Daniels, D. Billings and C.
Daniels, had already arrived. We had a
most enjoyable time. The sisters at Lehi are
indeed spiritually minded. After meeting we
called on Sister Evans, widow of the former
Bishop, went on to Provo the same evening.
Next day Convention of the W. S. A. was
held there, President E. Bullock presiding.
Speeches and exercises were very fine,
great progress is being made in the county.
A choir of young girls came up from Spanish
Fork to sing for the Suffrage Convention.
A fine dinner was served in the hall, to
which all were invited, and it was a very
enjoyable affair. The same evening Sisters
Young and Wells met with the Relief
Society in American Fork and had a very
interesting time, Mrs. M. S. Hindley who
has presided there about twenty five years
was present, though on account of her hav-
ing a severe cold and cough Mrs. Ellen
Clarke conducted the exercises of the
meeting.
	WEDNESDAY, May 2nd a sociable enter-
tainment was given in the 14th Ward Hall
by the Guide Class, under the auspices of
the Y. L. M. I. A., of Salt Lake Stake,
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze presiding. The hall
was beautifully fitted up and the decor-
ations of plants and flowers were simply
magnificent, apple blossoms everywhere in
great profusion, but more beautiful still
were the intelligent faces of the young wo-
men assembled there. The roll call was
responded to with brief sayings from
President Wilford Woodruff's sermons
certainly a delicate compliment to our vener-
able leader. After music and prayer
Mrs. Emma Goddard successfully
illustrated the work of the class; Miss Rose
Wallace gave a brief sketch of Joseph
Smith the Prophet, his life and mission.
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp spoke interestingly
upon the circulation of the blood as part of
the physiological lessons the class had
taken. Mrs. Alice K. Smith read an
original poem specially spiritual and up-
lifting in tone and sentiment. Addresses
were then given by Presidents Wilford
Woodruff, Joseph F. Smith and Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, General President of the Y. L. M.
I. A. Delicious refreshments were served
to the invited guests by the young ladies of
the class. One specially pleasing feature
of the occasion was the presentation by the
class to each of those who had been their
instructors of an exquisite bouquet of lovely
flowers. Mrs. Minnie J Snow, Mrs. May
B. Talmage, and Mrs. Emma Goddard.
Among the invited guests present were,
President Lorenzo Snow, Apostles F. M.
Lyman and H. J. Grant, Elder B. H.
Roberts, several Bishops and dis-
tinguished ladies and gentlemen who are


interested in all progressive movements.
The Guide class have done very effective
work in the attainment of higher and
deeper spiritual training.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	THE semi-monthly meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, May 6,
1894. Counselor E. Stevenson conducted
the meeting. Meeting opened by singing,
“O, my Father.” Prayer by Counselor E.
Webb. Continued by singing, ‘‘Welcome,
best of all good meetings.” Minutes of
last meeting read and approved. Minutes of
Primary Association of Fifteenth Ward read.
	President M. Isabella Horne said she was
pleased with the minutes read by the little
girl. Thought mothers should be careful
and prompt in sending the children to the
Primary. We should be careful of pride,
and dress the children plainly. A proprietor
of a store said he sold more gingham to
clothe the children of the rich, by far, than
to clothe the children of the poorer classes.
Children should be taught to respect their
parents. Young mothers be wise and
humble. We are all God’s children, and
should be wise and humble, striving to
raise our children to fear God. Told of the
sad fate of a Prophet, because he did not
restrain his children. President Woodruff
has said that when the Temple was dedica-
ted the angels had been told to reap down
the earth, and the spirit of destruction was
everywhere except in Zion. Spoke of the
many virtues and good deeds of Sister
McMaster, President of the Relief Society
of the Eleventh Ward, who had passed
away since our last meeting; also Sister
Player, one of the Counselors to the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Nineteenth
Ward; they were noble women, valiant for
the truth, and had passed to the great be-
yond, to mingle with loved ones, and enjoy
the reward of the righteous.
	A sister in the congregation testified that
this was the Church of God. Sister Julia
Pack bore a strong testimony to the truth
of the Gospel, spoke of the Prophet Joseph,
how his face shone with glory when he told
of the truths of the Gospel, and also spoke
of seeing the murdered Prophet and Patri-
arch side by side in death.
	Sisters Rawlings, Forsythe, Morris,
Phelps, Clark, Brown and Nunn, each
spoke upon healing and concerning faith,
promises fulfilled, and the testimony of the
Gospel and its gifts and powers.
	Sisters M. W. Wilcox, Mary Ann Hardy
and Williams, each bore strong testimonies
and were pleased with the sentiment of the
meeting. Sister J. C. Howe said the sub-
jects treated upon had been timely. “I am
thankful that my kind parents taught me
to revere the Sabbath day. God has an-
swered my prayers in a remarkable manner."
	Sister Jane James bore a faithful testi-
mony, then spoke in tongues.—Interpreta-
tion given by Sister Phelps.
	Counselor Stevenson—Is this not the
school of the prophets to us? Spoke at
some length on the duties of mothers, mak-
ing many good remarks. President Horne
made a few closing remarks. Meeting ad-
journed for two weeks. Singing, “This
God is the God we adore.” Benediction.
Sister L. D. Alder.

	Ladies’ semi-monthly meeting held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall, May 19,
1894. Sister M. Isabella Horne presiding.

[Column 2]
Meeting opened by singing, “When the
voice of friendship’s heard.” Prayer by
Sister Margaret C. Brown. Continued by
singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Minutes
of last meeting read and approved.
	President Horne hoped the sisters would
bear testimony that we might have a time
of refreshing from the Lord. God knows
when we bear testimony. “Angels bear re-
cords to the worlds on high. By our re-
cords we shall be judged. Let us keep His
commandments, that He may not say to us,
“Depart, you have not done the things I
commanded you.” Of all women we are
the most blessed, if we have the good spirit
in our heart.”
	Minutes of Primary of the Fifteenth
Ward were read by the secretary, which
were very instructive.
	By request President Horne granted per-
mission for the patrichal blessing, given by
the Patriarch Hyrum Smith to Sister Jane
James, to be read in the meeting. The
blessing was read by Sister Alder.
	Sister Elmina Taylor said, it is comfort-
ing to know that who doeth well shall be
blessed. We have the gifts of the Gospel
among us. We frequently have the gift of
tongues, also the gift of healing (I have
been healed many times myself,) and all the
other gifts are in the church as promised.
Should we not live better lives? Should
we not be careful of our association, and be
calm here in Zion while the dreadful calam-
ities pass over the earth? God said that in
the last days He would pour out judgments
on the wicked. May we so live that to us
He will say, “Well and faithfully done.”
	Sisters Corbet, Diana Reed, Peterson,
Hayon, Holland, Larsen and Forsythe
bore excellent testimonies. Sisters sang,
“Arise, my soul arise.”
	Sister Rawlings, Kiddle, Frances Smith
and Workman each bore testimony concern-
ing the healing power, fulfillment of prophecy
and of promises made by the servants
of God.
	Counselor E. Webb spoke at some length
on Temple work, urged the sisters to at-
tend to this important duty, also of the
dreadful calamities befalling the children
of men, disasters by sea and by land, at
home and abroad; felt that we were living
in the time spoken of by the prophets,
knew the gift of healing was in the Church
at the present time as well as in the past,
and that she was a living monument of
God’s mercy. Urged the sisters to redeem
their dead.
	Other sisters in the congregation bore
testimony, and desired to be true and faith-
ful.
	Sisters Morris and Ford bore testimony
that Joseph was a prophet of God, was
thankful for this knowledge.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder also bore testimony.
	President Horne felt to thank God for
the many excellent testimonies borne to-
day, and felt to bless the sisters. The gift
of tongues was poured out. The inter-
pretation was given by Sister Phelps, and
was a rich blessing to the sisters. Sister
Morris testified of the good spirit in the
house. President Horne spoke of laboring
in the Temple, and of a vision that a sister
had just been given there. She saw her
daughter (who had but lately passed away)
with the heavenly choir, and when the
Temple choir sang the Hosannah, the
heavenly choir all sang Hosannah, and her
daughter was among them. Made other
closing remarks. Meeting was adjourned
for two weeks. President Horne spoke of

[Column 3]
the secretary’s absence, that she was often
prevented by circumstances, it was sugges-
ted that the sisters pray that Sister Young
might be enabled to attend. Sisters sang,
“There’s a feast of fat things.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Julia Pack.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Ast. Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.

		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of conference of the Relief
Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion, con-
vened in the Stake House, March 4, 1894.
Sister Sarah Pope presiding. Singing.
Prayer by Bishop Freestone. Singing.
Minutes of previous conference read and
approved. A statistical and financial re-
port was read. The local and general
authorities were sustained by the conference.
President S. R. Bennion delivered a very
interesting discourse to the people: he said
the sisters were engaged in one of the
greatest works there is in the Church.
Spoke of the grain they are laying up ac-
cording to President Brigham Young’s in-
structions, and also spoke on the education
of the young, said he felt to bless the
sisters in their labors, and asked the Lord
to bless us all.
	Counselor A. Bartlett said the Relief
Society was organized by the Prophet
Joseph for a wise purpose, and also spoke
at some length on the subject of virtue.
Counselor Mary Hall bore her testimony.
Advised the sisters to read and study good
books that they might store up knowledge
and have something to talk about, besides
talking about their neighbors, and asked
the Lord to bless us in our work.
	Conference then adjourned until 7. p.m.
Singing, “Hard times come again no
more.” Benediction by President Sarah
Pope.
	Evening session:—Opened with singing, 
prayer by counselor A H. Bartlett. Sing-
ing. Sisters Abby Oaks, Mary O’Niel,
Sarah Coltron, Julia E. Dillman and Phebe
Hislop all spoke very interestingly on
different subjects, especially on the way we
should rear our children and the example
we should set before them.
	Sister Robison spoke a few words to the
young sisters. Said they must be very
kind to the aged, remember they were the
ones that cared for us when we were
small, be kind to them and take their coun-
sel and the counsel of parents, for remem-
ber we will all be old some day ourselves.
	“President Pope felt like saying a few
words to the sisters in the Relief Society.
It is our duty to look after the poor and
needy, take care of everything we have
that we can use, if it is something we can-
not use ourselves we can find some one else
that can. It is but a few years from the
cradle to the grave, and let us do all the
good we can. It is hard times there is 
plenty in the country but no money to get
anything with—it was much worse in the 
early days of Utah, for there was neither
money or clothing.”
	Brother Robert Pope spoke a short time
on the early days of Utah and crossing the
plains, and said he wished the brethren
would speak to the people as plain as the
sisters did. Hoped the sisters would be
blessed in their labors. Conference ad-
journed for six months. Singing. Bene-
diction by Counselor Mary Hall.
	SARAH POPE, Prest.
	ADDIE LONGFELLOW, Sec.


[Column 1]
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Bear Lake Stake convened at Paris, Idaho,
December 2, 1893. There were present on
the stand, President Wm. Budge and Coun-
selors James Hart and Wm. P. Rich, and
the presiding ladies of the Stake—Sister
Julia Lindsay presiding.
	The President stated that she, with her
counselors, had visited all the branches of
the Stake and felt well satisfied with the
progress they were making. The Relief
Society of the following named Wards were
then reported as in good running order:
	Paris, First Ward, Margaret James;
Second Ward, Sarah Ashley; Ovid, Martha
Carlson; Liberty, Margaret Morgan; Len-
ark, Jane Toomer; Bennington, Margaret
Vanorman; Dingle, Ruth Sparks; Bloom-
ington, Josephine Nelson; St. Charles, Jane
Gallaway; Thomas Fork, Mary Dalton.
	Sister C. Collins made many good and
timely remarks. Counselor L. M. Hart
spoke at some length on the duties of par-
ents to their children, after which meeting
adjourned by singing, “Guide us, O thou
Great Jehovah.” Benediction by Brother
J. H. Hart.
	Afternoon session:—Commenced with
singing “Come, Come ye Saints.” Prayer
by Counselor W. L. Rich. Singing, "Re-
deemer of Israel.”
	Sister Mary Bagley spoke of the improve-
ment made in the society, and also on the
force of example; thought no one had a
greater mission to perform than the mothers
in Israel. As members of the Relief
Society, the labors of the sisters were in-
creasing, spoke impressively on the storing
of grain.
	President Lindsay endorsed the remarks
of the former speaker, and gave many good
instructions. President Wm. Budge felt
confident and gratified that the sisters would
desseminate truth, that they were one of
the aids of government, and he felt sure
that their labors would be rewarded to their
complete satisfaction. He gave excellent
instructions in regard to storing grain.
	President Lindsay then said that we
would be called upon for one report a year.
She also stated that it had been counseled
that they should hold the meeting in each
Society every two weeks. Conference was
then adjourned by singing, “Our God we
raise to Thee.” Benediction by J. H.
Hart. ROSE HILLIER, Sec.

	SUMMIT STAKE.
	The Semi-annual Conference of the Sum-
mit Stake Relief Society, was held at Hoyts-
ville, on Thursday, May 2nd, 1894. Presi-
dent May J. Atwood presiding. At 10
o’clock a.m. the conference was opened by
singing, “The happy day is rolling on.”
Bishop Sargent, of Hoytsville, offered the
opening prayer. Singing, “Lo, the Gentile
chain is broken."
	President Atwood complimented the
sisters for the care and taste displayed in
preparing the meeting-house for this oc-
casion. Minutes of conference held at
Hennefer in September, 1893, were read
and approved.
	The Stake organization consists of fifteen
branches; statistical and financial reports
from thirteen were read as follows:
	Reports were made by Presidents as
follows: Hannah Boyer, Wanship; Parth-
-enia Ann Holt, Hoytsville; Sister Lusty,
South Coalville, Walker, Peoa; Sister

[Column 2]
Vernon, Rockport. The reports indi-
cated that the branches were in
fair condition and a general good feeling
prevailing among them.
	President Atwood spoke of the blessings
derived from meeting together, it was a
duty and a privilege; we should show good
examples before our families, teaching them
to do right; we should visit with each
other and talk of matters pertaining to the
Gospel and comfort and sustain each other.
	Sister Woolstenholme, of Kamas, said
though she was 74 years of age she felt de-
sirous of attending conference, and was
thankful for the privilege, spoke of the
blessings to be derived from observing the
Word of Wisdom; was thankful that her
heart’s desire was to still continue in the
good work.
	Sister Boyden spoke briefly upon matters
pertaining to our religion and bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Crook of Wanship, referred to her
experiences in the Primary Associations,
and urged upon parents and all concerned
to see that the children attended the Pri-
mary meetings. Spoke of the evil conse-
quences and abuses of card-playing. Sing-
ing, “Come, O thou King of Kings.”
Benediction by Elder Amos Sargent.
	Afternoon Session:—Singing, “Softly
beams the sacred dawning.” Prayer by
Elder Leroy Holt. Singing, “O’er the
gloomy hill of darkness.”
	President Jane Lemon, of Morrell, and
Counselor Hannah Eldredge, of North
Coalville, reported their respective branches
favorably.
	Sister L. Roundy of the Primary As-
sociation was much interested in the move-
ment being made to advance home indus-
tries; thought it a movement that we should
all encourage by patronage and support; we
should make and foster home employment
as far as lay in our power, which could be
done in many and various ways.
	Counselor Ruth Pack spoke of our
mission to do good, to be kind to each
other, comfort the sick, aid the poor and
needy, and to labor for the advancement of
God’s Kingdom. We should cultivate the
Holy Spirit which would sustain us in time
of trial and difficulty, and enable us to
overcome evil, and it would assist us in
discharging our duties as officers and mem-
bers in the society.
	Sister Mary Wolstenholme briefly ad-
dressed the conference. President M. J.
Atwood spoke at length upon our duties as
members and officers, and of the necessity
of placing good examples before our child-
ren, we should learn what is right for us to
do, and knowing it should do it fearlessly.
We should observe the counsel given to
store up our grain, she was impressed that
this was a duty that should require our im-
mediate attention. We should discounten-
ance the practice of card-playing and round
dancing, and use our influence with the
young people to refrain from participating
therein. The speaker referred to the sub-,
ject of  “home manufacture,” it was our
duty to encourage it, our present condition 
required it, and our future prosperity large-
ly depended upon it.
	Bishop Sargent of Hoytsville and Bishop
Atwood of Kamas, each spoke of the teach-
ings that had been given and advised the
people to carry them out in their lives and
all would be well. Bishop Atwood invoked
the blessings of the Almighty upon those
who had prepared so nice, comfortable and
pleasant a place to meet in.

[Column 3]
	Adjourned to meet at Kamas on the first
Thursday in September. Singing. Bene-
diction by Elder A. Peterson. 
	J. C. Boyden, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

(Written especially for the Woman’s Exponent.
Copyrighted 1894, by the Author. All rights
reserved.]
THE dark night’s hour was twelve, perhaps later:
I had just return’d home from the theatre,
Where I heard the fiery debater—
A lady who enjoys national fame—
On that old and beaten subject declaim,
Call’d by such as Woman Suffrage name.
And now that I lay restless in my bed,
Reviewing and weighing what she had said—
The arguments she had hurl’d forth, glowing red,
Why woman should not disfranchised be
But should have restored back her liberty,
Be from those shackles of bondage set free.
I set to doubting and saying—no,
Woman should not be allowed the polls to go,
To stem or aid the election's flow; 
Let her remain to home, home is her world;
Her structure is too delicate to be hurl’d
Devious with every political storm unfurl’d.
Yet, I next thought, she is endowed with sense,
Ample to know the better side of the fence.
And sense is the only weight of importance
Which should weigh in the question's balance 
	boat;
Really, to decree that she must not vote,
Cuts her innate liberty’s very throat.
Thus would flit before the eye of my mind
One argument, of favorable kind:
Then another, in adversity entwined,
Till my thoughts so entangled in the subject grew
Till my reason was put to so much ado,
I could not sift error from what is true.
At length my thoughts distorted swell'd, as they,
	swept,
In all the frightful shapes fantasy kept,
Before my mind, and away slowly crept.
Anon no train of reason could I keep;
Now the grossest foolishness did my mind reap
Benumb’d and rounded out in the gulfs of sleep
Day had now come, forenoon was in its grave:
The man I loved, so noble and brave,
Of robust physique florid cheeks, and clean
	shave,
Awaited without, with his carriage fine,
For me to accompany him to dine,
Or fill an invitation to take wine;
In less than a quarter, by the clock,
I had myself clad in silken frock
And was speeding along the street paved with
	rock.
Beside the man of my mind’s own choice, 
So near his pure heart I might well rejoice,
in a carriage fine of his own invoice.
But, as a corner we turn’d sharp and spry,
The hideous steam roller met the steed’s eye,
Quick he became frighten’d, began to shy.
Just then the frightful thing a sharp puff blew out
Instantly the horse leap’d, to reverse his route, 
With the same turned suddenly about: 
My heart leap’d up into my mouth with fright,
For dear life I to my escort clung tight—
Clung to his sinewy arm with all my might;
Another puff the engine gave—the steed,
With a wild leap of most vicious greed,
Plunged farther, bent from the noise to be freed.


[Column 1]
Follow’d a tremendous chaotic crash—
The carriage was o’erturned—with awful clash,
Away with shatter’d carriage the horse did dash
To my escort I clung in wildest dismay,
A telephone post I now saw did lay
Right afront of us, right in the steed's way—
Yes, and the buggy swift into it smashed:
I felt my poor body against it lash’d— 
But knew no more—perhaps all cut and gashed.
Somehow and strange I carried far away was,
Where infamiliarity keeps its laws,
Where I knew neither space, time, nor cause.
And it seemed to me I lightly went 
Along a narrow path which never bent,
Which led us onward thro’ the firmament;
Nor was I alarmed at this trip so strange,
E’er farther from where my knowledge did range
But all within me was calm as the change.
Now seem’d to confront me a huge gateway,
Built of polished stone and architecture gay,
Enshrouded in effulgence of brightest day.
And something to my mind seemed to state—
Here is where mortals, seeking Heaven. wait
For the Judge Supreme to decree their fate.
Without impulse, reason, or notice, 
All by unconscious volition passive,
Three raps, to come in at the gate, I did give;
Thereupon the mighty gate opened up wide—
A form, in pure white clad, stood inside
And gazed on me in silence, deified,
As if to question me from whence I came,
What was my business there and what my name,
I stammer’d out, with speech somewhat lame.
For I, myself, knew not what I would there:
“Oh, pardon my disturbance, thou so fair!
But, what name dost thou give this place of the
sir?
He answer’d, without a moment to wait,
-' In tones whose sweetness could intoxicate: 
“This is the Celestial City Gate.”
What, I thought to myself, then am I dead?
Have I from my earthly body fled?
Then, I, in wild anxiety, said:
“Can I return no more to my beloved land?’’
All who enter this gate,” quick came the com-
   mand,
“Nevermore ruturn to the mortal strand.”
“Oh, let me not enter then,” my quick tongue
   ran,
“I am in love with a mortal man!”
And my poor heart sigh’d, as anguish can.
Oh, how did I pass to this place of shade
Without knowing from my true love I strayed
Without a last kiss upon his lips laid.
Without his face so true at my dying bed!
“Kind sir, I am betrothed,” I then said, 
“I love: Oh, I must return to be wed!”
The personage, heedless, unto me spoke,
As if not seeing thro’ my speech’s cloak
The grief which was about my heart to choke.
As if he had heard not one word I utter’d
From my grief burden’d heart which flutter'd
I in palpitating anguish as it mutter’d:
But, as if aware and knowing full well
The exact locality where I did dwell
In the Womau Suffrage Question dell;
Spoke unto me in these words aliquot:
“Your mind in restless broil is toss’d about,
To know whether or not woman should vote.”
Surprised I was that the stranger knew my mind
I wonder’d in wonderment of vacant kind,
Stared on him with all the eyes I could find;
Soon, recovering back myself, I ask’d,

[Column 2]
“Since thou hast that important question Un
	masked,
Tell me, should woman with the ballot be task’d?”
He spoke, "From the decree of Heaven I this
	quote:
In the affairs of men, on earth remote,
It is woman’s right, yea,duty to vote.”
“And man,” he added, “does her shamful wrong
To steal this right and keep it from her long,
Because he is politically strong;
“Go, tell all humankind, on earth below,
Heaven is displeased with this evil they sow,
Which threatens the whole sphere to overgrow.”
And he was ceased. Silent, awhile I thought,
Pleased with the favorable decision, wrought
In favor of woman’s, using the ballot.
And delighted indeed, to hear he’d said
I should go, bear the news, with reversed tread,
To where the man dwelt whom I should wed.
But, catching a whisper from Reason’s tongue,
I said, “kind being, thou dost ken I am young,
And when I return humankind among,
"Unless I have reasons for this epigraph,
Earth’s wise men will call it naught more than
	chaff, 
And at its bearer deridingly laugh;
I pray thee (allow me so to intrude,)
Some reasons with this thy message include—
Reasons plain, clothed not in similitude.”
Awhile he deeply thought, and then he spoke:
“When ask’d the whyfore, by earth’s learned folk
Tell them—the Allwise says woman should vote
“But, if reasons further are desired,
Say the only requisite required,
A lone one but in rarity attir--
“To enable one to cast votes -ith sense
In the proper basket of the b--ance,
Is good, sound, mental intelligence.
“Now, the most ignorant man who treads life’s
shore,
Because he is born man and nothing more,
Is allow’d to cast his vote against or for.
Then why should not woman of sense born,
Yea, many capable Congress to adorn,
Be allow’d to vote on election morn?”
“Thy reason is very fine,” I then said,
“And it seems to me of such good logic bred
That it should convince the most stubborn head.”
“But,” I continued, “what will I say
When worldly wise men into my ears bray— . 
Politics are not for women to weigh.
“Woman’s duty is with her children, at home,
To see that they in the fields of learning roam,
From books and men all usefulness to comb?”
Observing me much fatigued, he then said:
“I see you are tired, both limb and head,
Set yourself down on the verdure there spread.”
So I did as bade, his heart good as great—
Sat myself down on the lawn by the gate,
And when I was seated his voice did state:
“Tell them that it is true woman’s place
Is the marble halls her homelo grace,
Teach her children to shun everything base,
Mould them into upright men and women pure:
In short, make them as near perfection’s picture
As is possible for effort to procure.
Then ask, but how can she this duty fill—
The highest to which motherhood can thrill,
To think of it causes my blood to chill.
Educate her sons in such wisdom wise
That they may be enabled to arise
To the statesmen and leaders nations prize,

[Column 3]
Without herself understanding, at the best,
Governmental affairs either East or West,
How the nation either lives or builds its nest. 
Then say—no, she cannot. She must understand
Every plank on which governments stand,
To well teach her sons to govern the land.
And say when all this nation lore she must learn;
With all this set and ready her tongue to turn,
Think you she knows not whose best fit to
	govern?
Think you such intelligence so encompass’d,
To be with aliens, savages and beasts class’d,
It should not be allow’d a vote to cast?
And odd—after she has thus trained her son,
Ever since his infancy begun,
For statesmanship or leadership to run:
“Then, would you deny her, at the end,
Him into his long-hoped-for place to send,
The privilege her vote to him to lend?”
“Truly, kind sir,” I said, “thou dost discourse
	well— . ,
Arguments mighty enough an oak to fell,
And the most sturdy in the forest dell.”
Yet, realizing what a golden chance
Was now before me, what matchless intelligence,
I desired the being’s mental lance
Down the skull of every question to cut
Which were to men’s eyes on earth ever shut;
And ope them up; so I this query put,
After being assured I did not intrude;
In asking further question, I was not rude:
Perchance, when I am in earthly habitude,
Some arrogant person should unto me say,
Suppose we grant it thee that woman.may
Cast her ballot on fair election day,
She would the very selfsame ticket vote
As the judgement of her husband did denote  
So would do every woman in wedlock’s boat.
Thus no side would have over the others a 
	gain,
Neither candidate would have the longer train, 
Than tho’ woman should disfranchised remain.
Moreover, and allow woman to vote,
Domestic discord, yea, wrath does promote,
By putting debate in the household afloat;
One will say this is right: the other, no,
And the sequel will be discord’s painful woe—
Fiery anger exchanging blow for blow.
If she’ll not hand in hand with her husband go,
We’ll from her possession the ballot throw
And, thus far, compel her to do so.”
No sooner had I ceased than he began,
From the knowledge I have of earthly man,
With unerring truth, I think I say can,
That to allow woman her vote to cast,
Will not of necessity the household blast
With matrimonial discord’s cruel frost.
Wherever it does brew some little discord, 
There contention ever holds a ready sword,
And red-eyed quarrel lurks behind every word.
Let us assume discord it does produce:
Is woman more than man the evil deuce?
Should the wife more than the husband beg excuse?
Now I beheld come o’er the speaker’s face
Pleasant expression, bearing distinct trace,
Sparkling in his eyes, up his cheeks running
	race,
As if this question of wedlock’s discord
Had nigh cast arguments overboard,
But now he had victory o’er them scored.
He went on, “As to the mischievous stone
Which might be as argument at you thrown, 
You a few moments since to my ears made
	known—


That, should woman to cast vote allow’d be,
Vote the ticket her husband did would she,
And thus would be better’d neither nominee.

Hurl back into their faces this mighty blow—
We who would have woman to the polls go
Wish her the same vote, as her husband does
throw;

Thus far, neither candidate would better’d be;
But within our fair nation’s boundary,
According to the census, referee,

Many million more women than men dwell,
Who have no husbands whom they can tell
To vote the wishes which within them swell.

Now, should all these go to the ballot box,
To vote the decision their good sense unlocks,
Politics would be clad in different frocks."

Furthermore, the fiery debater did say,
‘‘All these masses of womankind yearly pay
That with which our nation its debts does defray.

Yes, their taxes the men’s salaries pay
Who would the nation’s laws, of reason’s clay,
Who enforce them, who interpret what mean
they,

But are not allow’d a ballot to cast—
Not allow’d to say they want he who last
Marches—the good man in virtue encompass’d.

What would any private employer think,
Who pays the hands who weld link to link
Of the commodity which brings his chink,

If he could not say that man I will hire;
This man, when his term of office does expire,
I will bid from my services retire?

Why, he would declare it such an outrage
On human liberty that no savage
Would tolerate it, lived he in any age."

As the personage this last sentence said,
I felt something shaking and shaking my head;
Soon I heard my name call’d—Winnefred!
Winnefred!

Louder and louder the calling then seem’d;
I oped up my eyes from sleep—bright morn
gleam’d,
In surprise I look’d around—I had dream’d.
J. S. ROBINSON.
April, 1894.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	KIPLING’S Vermont neighbors character-
ize the auther as “odd.” He is never seen
without his pipe, never carries spending
money with him, wears shabby clothes,
says “begad” a great deal, drives shaggy
horses, and likes to play with his baby.
	OUR standard of right and wrong is usually
very lenient to ourselves, but very strict
with reference to others. We shall be
judged hereafter in some degree by that
standard according to which we judge
others here.—Rev. R. Gridlestone.
	IT is easy to live in the world after the
world’s opinion; it is easy to live in solit-
tude after our own. But the great man is
he who in the midst of the crowd keeps
with perfect sweetness the independence of
his character—Ralph Waldo Emerson.
	A hermit in America once told me, when
I asked him whether he fonnd that way of
life had lessened his temptations: “Dost
thou not know, friend, that a tree which
grows by itself is more exposed to winds
and storms than another that stands
surrounded with other trees in the woods?”
—George Whitefield.


A LETTER just received from Lily Lord-
Tift, Secretary of the Association for the
Advancement of Women, states that the
Congress this year will be held in Atlanta
with a supplementary Congress at Tuskegee.
The members will stop at Knoxville, Tenn.
and perhaps hold some meetings there.
They will take a day at Maryville to go
over its college where two hundred pupils
are being educated without regard to sex or
color, according to an endowment made
about one hundred years ago. At this
school the visitors will see whites, blacks,
Persians, Syrians, Indians, Japanese, Chin-
ese and East Indians. Mr. Shaw of Pitts-
burgh, left this college one hundred thous-
and dollars, and Mr. Fayreweather one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars. It is
only an hour’s ride from Knoxville by train,
and it will be one of the great attractions of
the Southern trip of the A. A. W.


OBITUARIES.

	IN memory of our dear friend and president,
Margaret F. D. McMaster, of the Eleventh Ward
Relief Society, Salt Lake City, who departed
this life 21st of April, 1894. The funeral services
were held in the Eleventh Ward Assembly Hall,
the twenty-fourth of April, 1894. A crowded as-
sembly of relatives and friends gathered to pay
their last respects to our honored president, who
always gave good counsel and had a heart full of
sympathy to the poor and needy. She filled
this office for ten years faithfully.
	She leaves five sons and four daughters to
mourn her loss, which will be her gain; she has
fifty grand and great-grand children. She has
been associated with the Eleventh Ward Relief
Society ever since it has been organized, and
held offices as teacher and treasurer, previous to
her, being chosen president.
	She was born in Grenock, Renfrewshire,
Scotland, 15th of May, 1822, she arrived in Salt
Lake on the first [---] Oct. 1854. Sister McMaster
has ever been firm and faithful in the Gospel.
SARAH MCMASTER,
JENNETT MORRIS,
[written to the right of "SARAH MCMASTER," and "JENNETT MORRIS,": }Counselors]
ELIZABETH HOPER, Sec,
MARIA BIDGOOD BARNES, Treas.

IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, March 8, 1894, in Uintah, Weber Co.,
Utah, after a lingering illness, of consumption,
Maria Eveline Keyes, aged 48 years 5 months
and 29 days. Deceased was born in Kane Co.,
Illinois, September 10th, 1846; her father’s name
was Joseph Terry, her mother’s maiden name
was Hannah Bemis. On April 27,1862, in Oregon,
she was united in marriage to Alma Keyes, and
came to Utah with her husband in 1866, and set-
tled in Ogden. She was the mother of thirteen
children, five of whom preceded her to the
spirit world; five sons and three daughters are
still living. The family settled in Uintah, April,
1884; Sister Keyes joined the Relief Society the
same year and was chosen treasurer in 1888,
which office she faithfully filled until she was
called away by our Heavenly Father to a higher
sphere; she was a faithful wife and a loving
mother, and made many friends, always kind and
ready to do good to anybody whether in the
Church or not. She remained true to the
end of her mortal life. Her father and mother
were members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints when she was born. Peace be
to her ashes.
	Resolved, that while we feel the deepest sorrow
in the loss of our departed sister, yet we know
that our loss is her gain, and we, therefore,—bow
submissively to the will of Him who doeth all
things well and say, "Thy will, O Lord, be done.”
	Resolved, that we cherish her memory and
emulate her virtues, and strive to carry out in our
lives her motherly counsel, which was ever so
wise, in temporal as well as spiritual things.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sympathy
to the bereaved family, especially her husband,
sons and daughters, who so lovingly tended her
during her months of sickness, and who need that
counsel which a wife and mother alone can give.
	Resolved, that one copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, a copy be entered upon
the record of the Relief Society, one copy be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
RACHEL GALE, President.
SUSAN STEWART, Sec.


GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:

[Column 1]
Leave Salt Lake:
*7:45 a. m.
10:20  "
2:00 p. m.
3:00   "
†6:30  "

[Column 2]
Arrive Salt Lake:
12:40 p. m.
*4:00  "
4:40   "
6:10   "
†10:10  "

*Daily except Sunday.  †Daily except Monday.
Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50c.

S H. H. Clark,
Oliver W. Mink,
E. Elle y Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.
}Receivers. [written to the right of the five names above]
D E. BURLEY
GEN. AGT. PASS. DPET.

G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of
Show Cases, Mirrors,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils AND Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, latest
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But-
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

