VOL. 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1893. NO.5


CONTENTS:

	Fishing on the Reef Samoa—Alofa. Mother
Crowded Out—Margaret E. Sangster. Needle
Work Guild of America—Mrs. Edward B. Critch-
low.  On Raising Mulbery Brush—S. A. S.
Official Notice. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—
Lydia D. Alder.  U. W. P. Club—E. R. Shipp.
Ladies’, Attention—Mrs. M. C. Howes.  Notes
and News. An Abridged Sketch of History—M.
E. Kimball. Wayne Stake. The War of 1812.
In Memoriam. Obituaries.

	EDITORIAL.—The Saving of Grain.  Salt Lake
Tabernacle Choir.  Editorial Notes.

	POETRY.—She and I—Etta L. Gilchrist.  The
Deserted Claim—Selected. Why Should We
Doubt—Eliza E. Gibbs.


SHE AND I.

WE played together she and I
	Two children by the meadow brook,
She fair and bright as summer’s sky
	I, stout and firm and proud of look.

We two were neighbors she and I
	But differing in our birth-right dower
She daughter of a laborer nigh
	I born to pride of wealth and power.

We loved each other, she and I
	The old, old story ever new,
She loved as woman trustingly,
	I, selfishly as mankind do.

We proved our love, both she and I
	As ever fondest lovers must
She gave herself, my truth to try
	I, broke her heart, betrayed her trust.

In worldly circles she and I
	Were judged by human judgment vain,
I, honored still and lifted high
	She bearing the reproach and stain

We’ll stand in judgement, she and I
	God will decide where rests the blame,
Her fault’s he’ll pass in mercy by;
	On me will place the guilt and shame.
					ETTA L. GILCHRIST.


THE DESERTED CLAIM.

UP where the snow shines pure and white,
	In the peaks that point to the summer sky,
Up in the gulch by the evening light
	I saw, as we traveled slowly by,
A claim deserted and left alone,
	A shaft sunk in the mountain side,
A roofless cabin, of logs rough hewn,
	Where some one had labored ’till hope had
died.
And late on, when our camp was made,
	And the white tents pitched for another night,
While the pine trees weirdly tossed and swayed
	In the cheerful glow of our camp fire light,
When merry voices rang on the air.
	And smiling faces flashed in and out—
I thought of that cabin rude and bare,
	Of its owner, who labored in hope and doubt.
He had come perhaps from some Eastern home,
	For speedy wealth to this Western clime,
And homesick and weary and all alone,
	He had faithfully toiled for some friendly sign.
Cold moans the wind through the canyon deep,
	And the coyote cries the night hour drear
There are unknown footsteps that softly creep,
	And the voice of the burro in kingly cheer.


Still he dreamed as others had done before—
	As others shall do in the days to come—
Of finding wealth in unbounded store,
	And joyfully bearing his treasure home;
But fortune is chary when all is told—
	Her smiles are the hardest on earth to gain,
And where one is favored with shining gold
	A thousand others may toil in vain.
Thus I sit and muse in the camp-fire glow,
	While the welcome evening meal is spread,
And the sound of the river comes soft and low;
	And the stars shine brilliantly overhead
For my heart is saddened as day by day,
	We pass in sunshine or dripping rain,
That frequent road-mark upon our way,
	The deserted, desolate, mining claim.
	SELECTED.


[Column 1]
FISHING ON THE REEF SAMOA.

	THE twenty fourth of July was a fit
time for an “out” in the scorching sun,as it
was under its burning rays that our honored
pioneers entered the beautiful valley of
Salt Lake just forty-six years ago.
	We had made no preparations for a
celebration at the Mission House, so when
Selani came and asked to borrow the boat
for a fishing trip to the reef, and stated
that the party was to consist of women
only, I hastily made up my mind, just for
the novelty of the affair, to accompany
them.
	The tide being low, I was asked to walk
along the beach to a point where they hoped
to be able to get the boat near the shore
but alas! when we reached the point we
found the water too shallow even there to
get within fifty yards of the shore so my
first experience was to wade to the boat,
shoes and stockings on.
	The party consisted of two half castes,
two Samoans, and myself and the different
grades of color we represented was a mat-
ter commented upon by the dusky oars-
women as we were rowed out toward the
reef by their strong and willing hands. 
Several times the boat struck large rocks
which Meile's watchful eyes had failed to
discover, and our progress was for the
moment impeded;  but for the moment only,
for Selani would spring from her seat in an
instant and turn the nose of the little craft
around clear of the rocks and with dripping
apparel climb back to her place again.
	When we had gone as far sea-ward as
shallow water would admit, the boat was
anchored and we walked out over the sharp
stones to the edge of the reef. There the
great waves came dashing and breaking
against the ledge of coral which for ages
has successfully resisted their force. Oh,
how they did pitch and toss and roar, as if
determined to overstep their bounds and
come pouring over the rocks and on to the 
sandy beach! but just as each had gathered
all its force and towered up to its greatest
height it would strike the firm barrier of
rock and be dashed into snowy spray to fall
and mingle with the calmer receding
waves. How great and how wonderful in-
deed are the works of God, and in no part
of the earth are their grandeur displayed

[Column 2]
in greater magnitude than in the mighty
deep!
	While the dusky women of the tropic
were busily engaged in the fishing I divested
myself of wet stockings and shoes and sat
on a pile of dry rocks to rest and enjoy the
beauty of the scenery and the music of the
waves. The fishers went yet nearer the
edge of the reef than I dared to venture
and reached down in holes in the rocks for
a kind of shellfish while the water rolled
over them with considerable force. The 
net had been forgotten in the boat, conse-
quently the “catch” was small, but as
there is scarcely a living creature in the
sea that Samoans will not eat they picked
up a supply of stuff which is edible to
them, though even the appearance of it
was quite nauseous to me. Several large
cuttle-fish were among the lot. There
was only one woman in the crowd brave
enough to pick one up, therfore when the
first one was discovered by Luci she called
to friend Selani who came quickly to her
assistance. As she firmly grasped the
slimy, clinging creature in her hand, it
wound its eight long arms about her wrist
and wriggled and crawled in its endeavors
to free itself, while she bit out its teeth and
really smacked her lips over the dainty bit
of flesh which she chewed from around the
mouth of the animal while it was yet alive.
A dark slime from its body was smeared
over her face which made her appear less
attractive than I had ever seen her before.
As each succeeding one was caught I
noticed that all my companions were
anxious to chew off the teeth, though quite
unwilling to take the octopus in their 
hands.
	The sun had about reached the meridian 
when we started on the homeward course,
and we were all hungry. The lunch basket
contained only dry taro that is it was dry
when we started out; but the woman who
carried it had set it down in the water a
dozen times or more while she used her
hands to catch fish, so it was by this time
thoroughly soaked. I knew my friends
intended to find something in the sea to eat
with their “bread,” but I must say I was a
little surprised when I saw what the things
were. Raw fish, the insides of several
kinds of mollusks,  clam fish, sea-weeds,
and even the little sea-urchin which is so
thickly covered with quills that it resembles
a mere bunch of thorns; these and other
delicacies were eaten with great relish and
gave them all so great an appetite that the
tavo was all gone before all were fairly
satisfied. After offering me quite a variety
of danties, which I told them I was un-
accustomed to eating, they selected a nice
clean, looking bit from a clam, and after
washing it well, pursuaded me to just taste
it. I did so and then assured them that I 
did not care for any more. I do not think
I ever tasted medicine that was as hard to
swallow as that one small bit of a raw
clam.
	The natives explained to one another
that I had never lived near the sea before—
did not understand the things of the sea
except fish and that I did not relish those


uncooked; and I, thankful that they under-
stood the situation, ate a piece of the
saturated taro and thought it quite fishy
enough.
	We found several beautiful shells and
some pretty pieces of coral which were at
once handed over to me and gladly accepted.
	They insisted on giving me the cuttle-
fish also, but the gift was persistently re-
fused and no doubt they had a real treat in
the shape of cuttle-fish soup. We returned
home as we had gone out, by pulling and
rowing the boat by turns. Dinner had
been prepared by Sister Hilton and was
eaten with great relish.
	Besides being very tired, I soon found
that the sun had been too warm for my face
and neck, and I had burned them almost
to a blister. A simple remedy was applied
and soon gave relief, and the fishing trip on
the coral reef of Samoa was one which
will long be remembered.	ALOFA.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


MOTHER CROWDED OUT.

	“AFTER a mother is fifty years old there
is no longer any room for her in the world,
and she ought to die.” The words were
bitter, but they were not bitterly spoken.
Rather, the intonations of the patient voice
were plaintive, and the care-lined face of the
elderly woman who uttered the sentiment
wore no look of protest. Instead, there 
was in it an expression of resignation, of
acquiescence in something that must be ac-
cepted and endured.
	Thinking of many aged mothers, loved
to idolatry by the men and women who are
their “bairns” still, albeit some of them 
have silver hair and bent shoulders; think-
ing of the middle-aged, who bear as un-
questioned a scepter as when their babies
were in the nursery, though these are now
“young people,” with the hopes and
aspirations of the young; I wondered
whether my friend were not a solitary suf-
ferer. Observation has convinced me to
the contrary, and it is my conviction that
somebody should uplift a note of warning
in the ears of thoughtless, not heartless,
daughters.
	“The wind is in the east this morning,”
said a girl at the breakfast table, with a
significant glance around at her brothers
and sisters, and a little pucker of the mouth
in the direction of the matron, whose hand
trembled a little as she poured out the
coffee.
	“Your mother is very tired and evidently
not well,” ventured an acquaintance, later,
when a “mother’s irritability” was freely
discussed in her hearing by these young
people. “That may be,” said one of them
lightly, “but she needn’t be so cross. We
are all willing to do our share in helping
her, but she does not know that the world
has moved since her day.”
	Neither did the young daughter realize
that, however far the world may have
moved since her mother’s “day,” it never
has moved, and never will, from the shadow
of the fifth commandment. I have a stand-
ing quarrel, too, with the statement that a
person’s “day” is pre-eminently her day of
youth. There is a “day” for forty, for
sixty, for eighty, and each "day" is as im-
portant and as honorable, if well spent, as
the other—the latter as gloryful as the
earlier. There is one beauty of the rose-
buds and another beauty of the ripened
wheat, and another, again, of the snow-
flakes.


But, of course, I know what girls mean
when they talk of the old people who have
had their day. And I am always greatly
perplexed and troubled when I see that the
effect of education, in a wider sense than
the mother knew, has been to make the
younger look down upon, or patronize, the
elder woman. The plain mother has made
sacrifices, some of them very heavy, to
obtain for her children the opportunities
and advantages of the best schools. She
has toiled early and late, spent lonely
hours, felt in her soul at times humiliating
depression because she could not keep
pace with her children, and it is, pardon
me for saying it, simply low and mean for
her daughters ever to snub her, or to be
impatient with her, or to maneuver to keep
her in the background.—Ex.
MARGARET E. SANGSTER.


NEEDLE WORK GUILD OF
			AMERICA.
	THE Needlework Guild was organized
ten years ago, in England, by Lady Wol-
verton, “with a machinery of such beauti-
ful simplicity that it could be a burden to
no one, and the condition of membership,
only two new useful articles of clothing a
year, was so small a demand that the
society became popular immediately.
The elements of popularity and steady
growth were in its very structure—no caste,
no sect, no hampering prejudices.” Since
then the work has spanned the Atlantic
and stretches almost from ocean to ocean,
across this fair land of ours.
		SALT LAKE BRANCH.
	Through the efforts of Mrs. W. A. Nel-
den, we ladies of Salt Lake City have be-
come interested in it, and the few gathered
in Mrs. Nelden’s parlor one warm after-
noon in May, 1893, have increased to an
army of 550 workers, called the Salt Lake
City Branch of the Needlework Guild of
America. A branch consists of ten sections,
with an honorary president, president,
secretary and treasurer. Each section
must have at least five (5) directors, one of
whom shall be president and one secretary
of the section. Each of these five pledges
herself to obtain ten others, who shall
promise to contribute two new garments a
year, making twenty-two (22) garments,
or one hundred and ten (110) for each sec-
tion. Each ten send in their garments in
October to their director; by the directers
they are sent to the presidents of the
sections, and by the presidents sent to a
specified place and there distributed accord-
ing to the vote of the officers and directors
to the needy and destitute in hospitals,
orphanages, homes and among the poor,
making in all a distribution of eleven
hundred (1100) good, strong, new articles
of clothing. The work is so simple, yet so
far reaching in its beneficence; so easy, yet
so great in its accomplishments, that we
should each feel glad to be one of its work-
ers, and make of our branch a telling
power for good in this city and throughout
the Territory.
	Notices have been sent to all the known
charitable institutions in the city, which
have been generally responded to. From
the two Orphanages, the Day Nursery on
State street and St. Ann’s, comes the call
for hundreds of garments, anything
wearable from shoes to caps, for seventy-
[Column 2]
five children ranging from six months to
fifteen years of both sexes; for comforters,
bed and table linen also.
	The Young Ladies’ Aid Society’s need
boys’ suits and flannel underwear, girls’
dresses and flannel underwear, men’s un-
derwear, women’s underwear, and outfits
for infants, also shoes and stockings of all
sizes.
	The Rescue mission, men—clothing of
all description for men from sixteen to
sixty years of age; also small bed ticks,
sheets and pillow-slips.
	The Rescue mission, women—dresses,
underwear, shoes and stockings for women,
comforters, bed and table linen.
	Newsboys’ home—bed and table linen
and all kinds of boys’ clothing.
	In addition to these the destitute and
needy of all classes, to whom a new gar-
ment may bring a blessing, and help more
to uplift morality than many gifts of old
clothes from the attic.
	MRS. EDWARD B. CRITCHLOW, Sec.


ON RAISING MULBERRY BRUSH.
	In passing through the country I have
observed that very few new mulberry
orchards are planted now a-days and I would
suggest that more attention is paid to this
industry, or in other words, plant out mul-
berry orchards now, that in time to come
and a short time at that, there may be
plenty of feed for a numerous quantity of
silk worms, that are bound to be raised in
this country before long, and I would also
suggest that the mulberry plants, be raised
in rows of brush as well as trees, because
the brush can be cut much handier for feed,
and another reason is, it could be cut off
every other row alternately every other
year.
	They (the rows) want to be planted far
enough apart for a team to go through so
that the brush could be thrown into the
wagon handily—because the last three
weeks the silk worms are fed, they need
so much food.
	The brush can be raised by taking the
slips from the mulberry trees in the Spring
of the year, and planting them thickly in
trenches leaving a ditch so that they can
be watered easily.
S. A. S.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.
	THE annual convention of the Utah
branch N. A. W. S. A. will be held in the
Fourteenth ward assembly rooms in this
city on Thursday, October 5th, 1893. The
executive session will convene at 10 o’clock
a. m. It is desirable that delegates from
the several counties should be present and
take part in the proceedings. The conven-
tion proper will commence at 2. p. m. at
the same place. It is expected there will
be brief addresses by some of the ablest
exponents of woman suffrage in the Ter-
ritory. Presidents of the several organiza-
tions are asked to respond to this call and
to the circular letters sent out recently by
the secretary. The public are cordially
invited to the afternoon session.
	SARAH M. KIMBALL, President.
	NELLIE LITTLE, Secretary.
	E. B. WELLS, Ch. Pub. Com.


NEXT November, the men of Colorado
will vote yes or no on the question of wo-
man suffrage.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT 	
﻿


WHY SHOULD WE DOUBT. 
[Lines dedicated to Mrs. Lu Dalton suggested
by reading her poem, “The One Doubt."]
DEAR sister, although a stranger to you un-
	known,
Thy plantive, sad refrain so very like my own
Has stirred within my heart a sympathetic chord
	of grief and woe,
Awaking sad memories of the past keen-edged
	tho’ long ago,
At first I could not say as thou hast said, “God’s
	will in all be done,”
My heart rebelled, but since have learned sub-
	mission must be won.
Tho’ years of grief too deep, for language to
	portray
Have come and gone, the wound so deep can 
	never be effaced or pass away,
The one I mourn was pure and true, her soul
	with trials purified was more of Heaven than
		earth.
A precious boon from Heaven lent, the solace of
	my weary life but oh, the conquerer death.
Yet cease regrets, my saddened heart, thine all
	to God resign nor doubt his high behest,
His infinite wisdom faileth not our lambs have
	gone to rest,
And when through wise designs he calls our
	loved ones home from this terestrial ball,
’Tis for some purpose wise and just, none go
	without His call.
If he or she had lived! how oft our yearning
	hearts indulge the vain regret
If they had lived, what might have been? our
	wayward lips in saddened tones those words
		repeat.
Ah me! yes: what might have been we poor blind
	mortals little know,
Pitfalls and snares beset the unwary youth
	wher’ere they go.
Would they have stood immaculate when tossed
	on stormy seas of life?
Have weathered every bitter blast ’mid numerous
	whirlpools of sin and strife?
How many a mother’s heart in all  the bitterness,
	of mortal woe hath said,
If in his youthful innocence, unscathed with
	crime my darling one had died,
While in my anguish I had seen  the dust strewn
	o’er his guileless breast,
And thus could feel (how sweet the thought) my
	darling was at rest.
The veil so closely drawn ’twixt Heaven and
	earth is just and wise
Obscuring undefiled the visions of Eternity from
	our unhallowed eyes.
Oh why should finite mortals doubt the infinite
	wisdom of our God?
Whose Son hath all our sorrows borne, life’s
	stormy path has trod,
Has gained the victory over death and drained
	the bitter dregs.
							Eliza E. Gibbs.
Deseret, Utah.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	
	MINUTES of the Sisters' Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Aug. 26th, 1893. Prest.
M. I. Horne presiding: singing “Come ye
Saints’’ etc. Prayer by Counselor Elizabeth
Webb, continued by singing “We thank
thee O, God for a Prophet” etc. Minutes
of the previous meeting read and approved.
Sister M. I. Horne said “I think if there
was a will there would be a way, for many
more of the sisters to attend these meetings,
unless there is sickness in the family. By
meeting together we are built up, our desire
to serve God renewed, and we e[-]joy more


of the good spirit. I feel sorry that the
sisters do not realize the momentous day in
which we live. We should rejoice as
mothers and daughters of Zion, see that
we love one another, and never forget our
prayers. We should be thankful that we
live in this the best of all dispensations.
We should not be lukewarm in serving
God, but devote our energies to the things
of the Kingdom. Prest. Woodruff has
said ‘watch the times, for wonderful things
are right at our door.’ The Lord is pour-
ing out his displeasure, upon the nations,
of which we have to take a share, but if we
trust in God all things will work together
for our good. ‘Hard Times’ is the cry, but
this would be as nothing if famine should
follow. The prospect of this is bad all
over the world, and it is threatened in our
own land. God can avert it if He so desires
but we have been warned to store up our
grain, sisters are we doing this? Now
that wheat is cheap, we should heed this
counsel we should be on the safe side. If
the sisters would only work in each Society,
in a systematic manner, very much more
wheat could be stored up this season. We
know that we are right, and in this line of
our duty, to store up the grain.”
	Sister Horne spoke of the great good the
choir going to the Fair, would do for Zion,
and gave many other instructions.
	Sister W. East of Arizona also spoke at
some length, giving good counsel and ex-
horted the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT.
Sisters Morris, Thomas, Sebrick, and Wil-
liams each followed with many good words
of testimony. Sister L. D. Alder, Sister
May and others, each added her testimony
to those already borne. Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson closed by saying many good
things and adding her testimony to all the
others that the gospel was true, and ex-
horted all to be true and faithful to the
same. Meeting was adjourned for two
weeks. Singing ‘‘Lord dismiss us with
thy blessing” etc. Benediction by Sister
Julia C. Howe.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Acting Sec.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THIS interesting organization held its
regular meeting at the EXPONENT parlors
Wednesday evening, August 31st. Prest.
E. B. Wells in the chair; prayer by Lillie
T. Freeze. After due attention being
given to general business the President
stated the nature of our program for the
evening which was to be devoted entirely
to poetical readings and discussions, giving
a pleasant diversion from the regular
routine. Mrs. Mary A. Freeze led with a
very appropriate selection from our honored
poet Eliza R. Snow. Ruth M. Fox read
an original poem entitled “The Moon’s
Answer’’ which had a tendency to awaken
many new thoughts.
	Miss Patterson recited in a very effective
tone and manner the beautiful poem
“Sometime.” A. J. Crocheron read
the “Lost Bower” from Mrs. Brown-
ing. C. C. R. Wells read E. B. Wells’
beautiful poem “A Fragment.” Dr. E. R.
Shipp read an original poem in two parts,
“Our Inspiration and Our Poets.” Mrs.
Lizzie Wilcox recited, very impressively,
“O, My Father.” E. W. Hyde read
“God Knows Best” from Ella Wheeler
Wilcox and L. T. Freeze read a beautiful
selection from the same author. Mrs.
Lydia Alder read “The Golden Curl” from


Mrs. Browning. The President then
charmed the club with her feeling rendition
of Jean Ingelow’s beautiful poem “Seven
times Seven.” Mrs. Lawler read the
“Deserted Mining-camp” which awakened
an animated discussion of the silver question
and Kate Field's unjust criticism of the
Women of Utah.
	The evening's program was interspersed
with sweet singing by Miss Pearl Russell
and piano music by Miss Olea Shipp,
thus blending the divine arts music and
poetry in a manner to lift one’s soul above
the stern realities of life to the idealistic of
the beyond.
	After refreshments and arranging of
program which was to be another evening
with the poets, selections from the opposite
sex exclusively, meeting was adjourned
for one month, benediction pronounced by
Lydia D. Alder.
E. R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec. pro tem.


LADIES’ ATTENTION. 
	THE unparallelled success that has at-
tended the use of the "Viavi” Home
treatment by all ladies who have tried it, is
sufficient proof to every unprejudiced mind
that it is one of the greatest discoveries of
the age; and an unqualified boon to suffer-
ing women. Ladies, if you would enjoy
perfect health yourselves and transmit a
healthy and robust vitality to your children,
investigate this remedy, and give it a trial.
You will not be disappointed in results.
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, a physician of
seventeen years practice in Salt Lake City,
endorses the treatment; and will in the
near future, lecture on its merits through-
out the territory. Correspond or make in-
quiry freely. Ladies only in attendance.
Utah Headquarters at 176 State St. Room 19.
	MRS M. C. HOWES Gen'l. Manager.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER celebrated
her eighty-second birthday, on Saturday,
Aug. 26, at the residence of her son, Col.
Henry B. Beecher, of Yonkers, N. Y.
Only the members of the family were
present.
	MISS FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE recently
celebrated her seventy-third birthday. Al-
though for many years confined to her
house by constant ill health, she is cease-
lessly at work for the welfare of her fellow
creatures.
	“VIRGINIA FRANKLYN,” a new writer,
whose verses and essays in Harpers Bazar
and elsewhere have been noticed for their
fresh and enjoyable qualities, is Mrs.
Virginia Terhune Vandewater, a daughter
of “Marion Harland.” Her sister is
Christine Terhune Herrick, whose excel-
lent writings on domestic topics are well-
known.
	REV. AUGUSTA J. CHAPIN, chairman of
the Woman’s General Committee on Re-
ligious Congresses in the World’s Congress
Auxiliary, has just received the degree of
Doctor of Divinity from Lombard Univer-
sity, Galesburg, Ill. This is the first in-
stance in which a woman has been author-
zed to write D. D. after her name.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, - SEPTEMBER 15, 1893.


THE SAVING OF GRAIN.
	THE grain question at the present time
should be seriously considered, and the
counsel given by President Brigham Young
in 1876 practically carried out by the women
of this Territory, and especially should the
cash now on hand to buy wheat be used
for that purpose while grain is so cheap.
	In the reports sent to the last Quarterly
Conference from the branches of the Relief
Society in this Stake we noticed particularly
the item wheat cash or cash to buy wheat
and it made quite a considerable sum. Let
this be put into wheat and if next year
there is an abundant harvest no harm is
done, and the wheat stored can be changed
for new wheat if considered wise and an
allowance made for shrinkage. But if the
crickets and grasshoppers should destroy
the crop next year as now seems probable
in many parts of the country, it would be
a source of satisfaction to have wheat in
the bins instead of cash in the coffers.
	What will apply to the sisters in this
county will apply with equal force and
weight in other counties, and those who
preside should see to it that the money
given expressly for grain should be used
while there is wheat to purchase, and not
let the opportunity be lost. Women who
have known  the pangs of hunger, and
whose children have cried for bread when
there was none to give them, must realize
what an important matter this is, and
should urge upon those who are careless
and indifferent to make hay “while the sun
shines” and not be too sure that there will
always be a bountiful harvest in time to
come. The older sisters will remember
the editorial approved and added to by
President Young in October 1876, but for
the benefit of those who never read it, and
as a forcible reminder to all, we republish
his counsel given to the sisters at that time,
in the hope that it will awaken those who
have means to buy up and save the wheat
that is being sold out of the Territory, that
there may be an ample supply of bread on
hand for all, should the harvest be less
abundant another year. Sisters be warned
in time and remember there is no famine
like the want of bread. We who lived
here in the early days know when gold or
silver would not purchase flour, and when
a loaf of bread was far more desirable than
a handful of gold dust. There are many
tales of suffering for bread that might be
told effectively, to some of the young people
born here and raised in comparative luxury,
who know little of the sacrifices made and


privations endured by those who settled
these mountain vales. Indeed it might be
well occasionally to speak of those other
times, those days of adversity and trial
through which the people passed in re-
claiming this desert land and making homes
in which to dwell. The Lord has wonder-
fully blest the labors of their hands, and
the children as well as the parents, the
pioneers of the country have reason to be
grateful to our Father in heaven, whose
bounties they continually and so freely
partake.


REPRINTED FROM EXPONENT OCT. 15, 1876.

	AT the suggestion of President Brigham
Young we would call the attention of the
women of this Territory to the subject of
saving grain. It is one important item
which President Young has labored diligent-
ly to impress upon this people ever since
their residence in these valleys. His ad-
vice has ever been to the brethren to culti-
vate the soil and let the mines, and mining
speculations alone, for the grain was of
more consequence than gold or silver. And
these people are witnesses to that fact;
practically having experienced the scarcity
of provisions and especially of breadstuffs,
in the earlier settlement of this country.
	The Lord has blessed this people
abundantly in the few years past in their
fields and in their stores of grain and pro-
visions; and as in almost every other case
when there is a profusion of blessings, the
people who receive them become indifferent
and do not appreciate them as they ought.
The people have been careless in regard to
taking care of their grain and many other
things. In many instances they neglect
to pay their tithing, and dispose of their
products in such a manner as, were it to
continue, the Lord would be sorely dis-
plea ed with them. This year grain is un-
usually low, yet the grasshoppers have
been visiting different parts of the Territory,
and, it is feared by many, have laid their
eggs; therefore it is more than ever essen-
tial that such measures be taken as will
secure the grain now in market. The
Relief Societies and Co-operative organiza-
tions in which some of the women of this
Territory are interested, have funds at their
disposal from time to time, which can be
made available to carry out President
Young’s wishes in regard to buying and
taking care of the grain.
	It is no doubt the best investment of
means that could possibly be made, for if
the prophecies of the Scriptures, both
ancient and modern, and of Joseph Smith
are to be fulfilled, which the Latter-day
Saints profess to believe, there will be a deso-
lating famine in the land; and if the wo-
men of this Territory will be wise, and
hearken to the counsel given to them now,
there is no doubt that the result will be an
eminent success. If the means now on
hand in the societies and women’s associa-
tions can be turned into grain, and such
measures taken to store it and preserve it
from damp and all other things that would
damage, or destroy it, as can be made
practicable according to circumstances and
advantages, then one point will be gained
towards the temporal salvation of this
people in case of emergency.
	In whatever women undertake they are
generally earnest, and our advice would be
immediately without any delay (except such
as is unavoidable) to commence to carry
[Column 2]
out President Young’s counsel in this mat-
ter. Where there is a will there is (almost
invariably) a way, and in this matter there
should be a personal and individual as well
as a general interest. In order to satis-
factorily accomplish any scheme one great
object is to be in earnest; on this earnest-
ness depends much of the success of what-
ever enterprise is undertaken. If you de
termine to do anything of whatever name
or nature, first be sure it is the proper thing
to do, and then without losing time, bring
your energies into immediate requisition
and you are almost sure to succeed.
	The women of this Territory are capable
of carrying out President Young’s counsel
in this matter; and if they do not they will
be left without excuse; he has called upon
the brethren until he has become wearied,
and now he appeals to the sisters Is not
this a proof of his confidence in their de-
sire to listen to counsel? The sisters will
have ample opportunity now to prove their
ability in financiering; and it is greatly to
be hoped that they will manifest such
earnestness in this matter as cannot fail to
accomplish the desired object.
	President Young further advises the
sisters, that they enter into such arrange-
ments, as are applicable to their circum-
stances in their various districts and settle-
ments, to build store-houses for the storing
of their grain in the sections of country
as they shall divide off, or apportion to cer-
tain localities; also that they solicit dona-
tions from their husbands and the brethren,
to assist them in carrying out this enterprise;
both for the building of the store-houses
and also in obtaining grain to fill them and
preserve it for future need.
	We sincerely hope that what has been
said will be sufficient to arouse a spirit of
determination in the minds of the women
of Utah, to devise and to put in practice,
such measures as shall be economical and
wise, and for the general good of all con-
cerned.


SALT LAKE TABERNACLE CHOIR.
	THE Salt Lake choir under the manage-
ment of its able director Professor Evan
Stephens has for some years past been quite
widely admired (for the sweet music
rendered) not only by Utah people, but
strangers and tourists who have visited the
City. It was thought by many musical
people when the Columbian Exposition was
first inaugurated that the Salt Lake choir
should go, and when competitive prizes
were offered, many people interested in
Utah’s progress were anxious the choir
should be given this grand opportunity, to
show the advancement of vocal music in
this comparatively new Western country.
	The recent financial embarrassments
were somewhat discouraging, and it looked
at one time rather improbable that so large
a company could find means to meet the
expense of going. But finally through
perseverance and the good management of
the Committee the visit of two hundred and
fifty of this large choir was successfully ar-
ranged and the singers with many friends
left Salt Lake on the 29th, of August amid
the cheers and exultation of an immense
crowd at the depot.
	In the same train was the new and
beautiful Pullman car, Pickwick, fitted up
with every modern convenience which had
on board the First Presidency of the Church,
Presidents Wilford Woodruff, George Q.


[Column 1]
Cannon and Joseph F. Smith with some 
members of their families and some friends,
invited guests of party.
	On their journey Eastward the large
company were well received at every
stopping place, and concerts were given by
the choir at Denver, Kansas City, St. Louis
and other places and at Independence Mo.
there was quite an interesting meeting and
assembly. This is one of the most historic
places in the reminescences of the Church,
and many of this people were anxious to
know how the Mormons would be re-
ceived, where years before they had been
expelled from their own homes and pos-
sessions. The reception and welcome
greeting given to the Latter-day Saints at
this place was very gratifying to those who
knew of the bitterness of the past, and
shows that prejudice is gradually giving
way to the better judgment, and that there
is more tolerance of religious faiths con-
trary to the old orthodox views of the
established Churches of the country.
	When the First Presidency and choir
with the friends who accompanied them
reached Independence having been previous-
ly waited upon by a special committee of five
citizens, they repaired immediately to the
Temple lot where a large assembly of
people were waiting to welcome them.
The Hedrickite house of worship stands
there but as it was not large enough to ac-
commodate all, a platform had been ar-
ranged outside and the First Presidency
and leading men of Independence were
seated there. The choir sang “The spirit
of God like a fire is burning,” and the
crowd moved across the street to the
Josephite Church which was soon packed
with people.
	The Mayor of the city gave the following
address of welcome,
	“To you American freemen, visitors from
the Far West, from a land of fruits, of
flowers, of milk and honey, I am here as a
representative of the citizens of Indepen-
dence, Mo., a broad, open people, free from
bigotry, generous, law-abiding, God-fear-
ing and lovers of liberty, and extend in
their names and in their behalf the right
hand of fellowship and a hearty welcome
to our city, hoping that the memory of this
day may be ever garnered in each of our
hearts, and treasured as one of the most
happy events of our lives.”
	President Woodruff responded, thanking
the people for their warm welcome and in-
voked the blessing of heaven upon them.
He then introduced President Cannon, who
briefly followed in the same strain and said
the welcome we had received while it was
unexpected was all the more deeply ap-
preciated. He closed by blessing them in
the name of the Lord and the choir sang
the anthem “Light and Truth,” and in
answer to an enthusiastic recall sang the
Temple anthem “Hosannah.” R. C.
Easton, by request, sang “O My Father.”
	One can easily understand how affecting
these services would be to those acquainted
with the history of the past.
	Arriving in Chicago there was little if
any difficulty in getting settled, everything
having been carefully arranged beforehand.
	The concerts in Chicago were well at-
tended and the choir singing, as well as the
solos given on Utah day at Festival Hall
and at the Utah Building, seem from all re-
ports to have been very fine and warmly
applauded as well as greatly appreciated.
	“Music hath charms to soothe the
savage breast,” the poet says, and it may
[Column 2]
be that through the musical and inpiring
efforts of the choir, much prejudice may be
swept away relative to this people especially
as regards ignorance and lack of cultivation,
for music denotes the highest cultivation of
a people, and the songs they sing are al-
ways indicative of the character, tone and
standing of a nation or a people. The
visit of the Tabernacle choir to the World’s
Fair will without doubt dispel many
erroneous views and notions and be
advantagous in many ways.
	The competition of the four choirs at the
Fair for the largest prize ever offered at a
national festival of this kind, will adver-
tise the singers more than all else, and
place them in rank before the public; here-
after it can scarcely be said as it has been
in standard magazines recently, there is no
music west of Cincinnati.
	The choir seems to have made friends
and produced a favorable impression every-
where, and the results must certainly be
beneficial in many ways. The choir leader
being a Welshman may have had some-
thing to do with the success and influence,
but we had much rather believe it was the
excellence of the work, wrought through
him in a great measure, and the tone and
superior quality and power of the voices of
the native sons and daughters of these
sacred mountain vales, girded by the ever-
lasting hills, scenery calculated to inspire
the poet and the singer.
	Though it was only the second prize
that was awarded to the Salt Lake Choir,
there were many good judges of music who
believed it should have been the first, but
as the choir that took the first prize reunited
with the professional singers from Wales,
it is not strange that they should have
been awarded the first prize; it does not
seem to have been a fair proceeding, but
the judges appointed declared it permissible,
so that no complaint would have been
listened to if made. However the people
of Salt Lake may feel a laudable pride in
the victory won by the Tabernacle choir
and due honor will be given them in the
welcome home and reception tendered to
them.
	The sad news of the serious illness of
Bessie Deane Allison’s babe causing them
to hurry homeward, restrained the public
from making any demonstration on the
arrival home, such as was made at their
departure; it would have been out of place
when one of the sweetest singers of their
number was plunged into the depths of sor-
row by the sudden news of her baby’s
condition. All sympathized with her and
every heart was  lifted in fervent prayer
that the child might be spared until her
return and that prayer was granted, though
it did not survive many hours after. May
our Father in Heaven give unto this sor-
rowing mother the comforting influence of
His holy spirit to abide with her, as He has
promised to all, who bow in submission to
His will.
	The choir arrived in this City on 
Wednesday morning September 13, and it
is expected will give one or two concerts in
the Tabernacle, when the people may show
their appreciation of the efforts made, while
away in assembling to hear the sweet
singers of Israel in their accustomed places
with the great organ accompaniment in the
Salt Lake Tabernacle at home.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.			37


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Ladies of the Needle-work Guild 
sent notices to all the charitable institutions
and Associations which they know of not
forgeting the Deseret Hospital, from which
notice they have not yet received a reply as
the Resident Physician, Dr. R. B. Pratt was
absent at the World’s Fair, but has now
returned and will undoubtedly answer the
Secretary’s circular letter.
	ONE of the curious happenings of late is
the appearance of the large eagle on the
towers of the Temple and on the head of
the statue of Moroni, also on the trumpet.
The writer accidentally saw it and felt im-
pressed that it was a good omen.
	COPIES of the book of poems “Songs
and Flowers of the Wasatch," are now
ready and may be obtained from this office,
price $1.00; there is only a limited supply
and persons wishing to secure a copy should 
apply soon.
	THERE will be a semi-annual Conference
of the Relief Society held sometime during
the General Conference of the Church; the
time and place of meeting will be given at
a later date.  It is earnestly requested that
the Presidents of Stakes attend or their
Counselors or Secretary should represent
them at the Conference, as there will be
important matters to be considered that will
require the attention of the officers.
	A REPORT of the Silk Industry of this 
Territory from the very beginning of the
work has been prepared and forwarded to
the Honorable Committee on Silk and Silk
Culture at the World's Fair in Chicago Ill.
It will not be long now until we shall
know the result of the very earnest efforts
made by the ladies here to give Utah a fair
representation in that particular industry.
Statistics etc.  of the labors of our sisters
in various parts of the Territory have been
compiled in this report and the facts set
forth in a concise and comprehensive man-
ner, and it is ardently hoped will receive
careful attention from the men and the wo-
men who have been appointed judges.
	ON Thursday evening Sep. 14th, there
was a very pleasant gathering of a few
friends and acquaintances at the residence
of Mrs. Amelia F. Young to spend a social
evening and to hear Prof. Scott Rue of
New York City relate some of his experience
in traveling in our own country, and in
foreign lands, the beautiful scenery and
interesting incidents connected therewith.
There was some fine piano music by Miss
Minnie Folsom and Mr. Wilby Dougall
and a song “The Holy City,” feeling-
ly rendered by Mr.  Hugh Dougall.  Re-
freshments were served in a dainty fashion
and altogether the evening was very enter-
taining; Mrs.  Young is an admirable
hostess and her visitors always enjoy her
hearty welcome and amiability. Of the
guests present we noticed President Angus
M. Cannon, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs.
Lizzie F. Young, Mr. O. J. Salisbury and
wife, Mr. W. B. Dougal and wife, Mr. Sam
Fenton and wife, Mr. Hinman Fulsom wife
and daughter, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, Dr.
M. Hughes Cannon, Miss Patterson of the
Herald Staff, Mrs. Priscilla Staines, Mrs.
Priscilla Jennings, Mrs. Mc. Donald and 
others.
	MRS. POTTER PALMER has been at
Mackinac Island since the adjournment of
the Lady Board of Managers.  The report
that she had gone to Washington, D. C.,
is not true.


38   		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN ABRIDGED SKETCH OF 
HISTORY.
“The Lord is our Shepherd.”
	THIS was the language of king David,
who was comforted and blessed by the in-
spiration of those words, “The Lord is our
Shepherd.” Now I would ask, how often
have we repeated the same with a full
assurance that we have the same kind
Shepherd and friend?
	I am satisfied that those of our people
who came to this valley at an early date can
reflect upon the past with a grateful ac-
knowledgement that the Lord has ever been
our Shepherd, to guide, to comfort and
bless all those who rely upon Him and keep
His commands.
	I well remember how beautiful and
peaceful was the sight of Great Salt Lake,
yet the ground looked so barren and dry,
excepting a luxurious growth of sage
brush.  The thought arose, without rain
how can we stay here.  This was in the
year 1847.  But our great Shepherd gave
us wisdom, that by industry and persever-
ance we could raise crops of vegetables, yes
and grain also.
	At that time Jordan River (as we called
it) was a very small stream; it sank in the
sand before it reached the lake—the lake
also was quite low.  I know when we
visited it the first time Black Rock was on
the shore.  We kindled a fire and cooked
our dinner by this rock, and for years we
could go to the island on a sand bar.  Yes a
long train of wagons went on this sand
bar to celebrate a birthday I think, but I
know we had a grand party that day.  This
was in 1859 I know, because my son was
one year old at this time.  But I am going
ahead too fast.  I wish to speak of our first
winter in this valley.
	The first winter was very pleasant, much
more so than any winter I ever saw in the
state of New York, where I was born and
grew to womanhood.  But the cricket war
was early the next summer, shall it ever
be forgotten?  Our gardens were planted
near City creek to be irrigated by that
stream, but our homes were in the fort.
	The soil after being well watered pro-
duced splendid crops; the largest radishes
and turnips I ever saw.  But one day the
crickets came in abundance.
	I shall never forget Br. Staines’ nursery
of young trees, looking so lovely, but while
he went to dinner they were all devoured
by crickets excepting three young plum
trees. Such destructive creatures I never
saw.   The fight began, but to no avail; it
seemed impossible to subdue them.  What
could we do, only go to God for help;
which help came in the form of sea gulls
from the lake. They came in swarms, and
devoured the crickets.  They gorged them-
selves then threw them up and ate again
until every cricket was gone.  With what
gratitude did we behold this wonderful res-
cue.  Even the children could see and feel
that God did hear and answer our prayers.
Our united thanks were offered daily to
heaven for this miraculous help.
	This humility and faith in God prepared
us for another blessing which we also
appreciated.
	It was simply this.  A new President
came into office by the name of Millard
Fillmore, when he was asked who should
be governor of Utah; he thought Brigham
Young the most competent man to fill the
place.  Again we thanked our Father for
His protecting care, and again resolved to
serve Him to the best of our ability.
	In doing this we always prosper, who
can deny it. Coming here into an Indian
country, would not the native people feel
that we were intruders and not welcome.
	This required great wisdom, and where
could it be found only from the fountain of 
light and intelligence.  If white people
were our enemies and had driven us out,
what could we expect from the Indians.
	Well that wisdom was obtained by
prayer, as our Savior said. ‘‘Seek and ye
shall find; knock and it shall be opened unto you.”
	The next intelligence we received from
Washington was, that President Fillmore
had appointed Gov. Young to be agent of
Indian affairs.—Again we felt that the
Lord provides for His erring children and
would give us wisdom to make friends with 
the tribes of Indians.
	Our settlement was in the form of a fort,
with doors inside and only a port hole on
the outside, that we could protect ourselves
in time of need.
	We always treated the Indians friendly,
giving them what they asked for; and inas-
much as we had spoiled their hunting
ground, our flocks and herds would make
amends.
	Yet they would slyly kill a man and
sometimes two at a time, when our people 
would rally to know the cause, and find
one of their braves had died and they want-
ed a white man to bury with him to be his
servant on the happy hunting ground.
Brother George A. Smith’s son and Bishop
Woolley’s son, were both killed about the
same time.  Dr.   Whitmore and Robert
Mclntire at another time, Thomas Williams
at another time, and Mr. Hatton and others
when standing on guard, etc, etc.,  When
Walker died he being their chief, they
asked President Young for a man to bury
with him.  But the President answered,
“No! not a man but as many horses as you
like.”
	After President Fillmore’s time had ex-
pired, another President took his place; and
another governor was appointed for Utah.
But some of our false brethren told this
President that we would not accept of any
other one to govern us but Brigham Young.
	This would never do, as any sensible
person would know.  Accordingly an army
of 10,000 men were sent to teach Utah
government and to show proper respect to
those who govern.
	Again we went to God for wisdom.  Our
faith prevailed.  He gave us wisdom to
defeat Gen. Johnston’s army without one
drop of blood shed.  After this Col. Conner
brought an army of volunteers from Cali-
fornia to keep the Mormons in subjection.
He planted a Military Post just east of our
city, and sometimes when walking round
temple block they were heard to say, ‘‘it
would only be a breakfast spell to use up
this place.” Well that whip has been laid
up there for more than 20 years but not
used yet.
	Yet there are a class of persons who can
always see, that we are in need of a chas-
tisement.  I well remember when President 
Young was a prisoner in his own house, I 
called to see one of his wives, and while in
conversation with her he came into the
room.
	After shaking hands I was invited to
dinner, and being anxious to talk with 
Brother Brigham I accepted the invitation:
and at length,  asked him, “President
Young why is it that every trial we have
seems heavier to bear?” “Well what is
heavy now,” said he, “why” said I,
“when an effort is made to destroy the
head of the Church this I call heavy."—
“Oh no he replied, this is all right, nothing
wrong we are all at home.” He did not 
wish to see any one sorrowful or cast down 
all is right he replied, nothing wrong.
	His composure of mind and confidence
that all was right,  was quite refreshing to
me, while I looked at him with astonish-
ment and admiration. Yet the result was
exactly as he said it would be, all right:
because a spirit of inspiration was upon
him no doubt.
	This event was preparing him for a still
greater event which transpired in a few days
after,  while still a prisoner in his own
house.
	This was the great fire at Chicago, burn-
ing nearly half of the city.  I remember
calling on Sister Heywood a neighbor of
ours who kept boarders.  She was going to
market one morning, and saw three men
just ahead of her, hurrying to the depot.
One of them said, is it not strange that this
fire should take place at Chicago, just as
we are here to carry out the Chicago plat-
form?
	When she came home she told us what
this man said.  A query arose: What
could this platform be.  Perhaps they
thought President Young would play some
trick to  get away, and then this platform
would do something wonderful.  But our
kind and heavenly Father ordered it other
wise.
	Who could fail to feel for so many people
left homeless and without food?  Did
President Young feel for them? Yes, he
sent one thousand dollars to the sufferers,
Brother George Q. Cannon sent five hundred
and Brother Hooper sent five hundred.
Brother Jennings sent three hundred, other
merchants sent some one hundred others
sent fifty dollars, making a nice little sum
of money sent to those who would rejoice
in our destruction; and no doubt help to
accomplish it.
	Yet this mattered not to President Young
and those of our faith. It was for us to
keep the laws that Jesus gave to his dis-
ciples, and then leave the event in His
hands; all is right then, whether in life or
in death: for this life is short at best. And
one thing we know that the gospel of
Jesus Christ, gives us that peace of mind
which the world cannot. give or take from 
us.
	Since the death of President Young our
trials have come in different ways.  But
in all this we remember the words of Jesus
were; that “it must needs be that offences
come, but woe unto them by whom they
come.” My daily prayer is may I never
be of that class who would afflict another
because they do not see a subject as I see
it.
	No! rather let us remember the words of
Job who said, of the Lord. “Has not He
a right to chastise as well as to bless?”
We also learn from the prophet Joseph who
said: “The Lord is angry with none ex-
cepting those who will not acknowledge 
His hand in all things; and obey not his
commandments.” Can we do this? Jesus
said if you will keep my words as I have
kept my Father’s words you shall share
with me my glory. Shall not we try to
do it?			M.E. KIMBALL.


WOMAN'S   EXPONENT.


WAYNE STAKE.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	WAYNE STAKE was organized May 27th
and 28th, 1893. Apostles F. M. Lyman
and M. W. Merrill being present. Apostle
F. M. Lyman presiding. Our stake Presi-
dency are William E. Robinson President,
Hans Hanson and Gastian Bastian Coun-
selors, they are very good kind men, and
are much esteemed by the people.
	The Presidency of the Relief Society of
Wayne Stake are Jane S. Coleman, Presi-
dent, Mary Ellen Hanks and Sarah S.
Forsythe Counselors, Florence M. Williams
Secretary. After the Stake organization
myself and Counselors considered it best
to visit each R. S. in the Stake and hold
meetings with them and get acquainted, that
a united feeling might prevail. We have
done so and realize it will be productive of
much good, we were received with kind-
ness by all of the branches. Commenced
to visit June 20th, held meeting with Fre-
mont R. S. their Bishop and a number of
brethren favored us with their presence,
much good instruction was given.
	Next day 21st, held meeting with the
Loa R. S. President Robinson and the
Bishopric attended also other brethren, a
variety of subjects were spoken of that
were edifying and elevating in character.
	The Loa R. S. was reorganized with
Margaret J. Taylor, President, Elizabeth
C. Jeffry and Bathsheba Grundy, Counse-
lors, Pauline Brown, Secretary, Sarah Ann
Robinson, Treasurer.
	In the afternoon of the 21st, met with
East Loa R. S. Bishop B. F. Brown and
Counselor J. Grover present, had an enjoy-
able meeting spoke of the instructions re-
cieved at the general Relief Society Con-
ference in Salt Lake City.
	Held meeting with Thurber R. S. on the
22nd, at 10 a. m. Bishop Wm. Meeks and
other brethren present, the remarks made
were timely and well recieved.
	Held meeting at Teasdale 2 p. m. Bishop
George Coleman present, same day re-
organized Teasdale R. S. with Mary
Eleanore Adams, President, Lydia C.
Adams and Maria J. Chaffin, Counselors,
Maggie S. Adams, Secretary, Emma Fran-
com, Treasurer, good remarks were made
exhorting to being faithful in the discharge
of every duty.
	On the 23rd held meeting with Grover
R. S. Of Teasdale Ward every member was
in attendance. U. V. Stewart Presiding
Priest present, a good spirit was enjoyed
good instructions given and the visit of the
Presidency of the Relief Society appreciated
by the sisters.
	On July 12th we wrote to each President
to have read in their meetings, “Utah
Women in Chicago’’ and June 15th num-
ber of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Also have their teachers canvas their
districts for subscribers for WOMAN'S
EXPONENT hope the result will increase
your list and be a pleasure to those who
subscribe.
	August 7th started for the lower settle- 
ments, held meeting at Cainesville. Au-
gust 8th at 2 p. m. was happily surprised to
have President Robinson and Counselor
G. Bastian attend our meeting also, the
Bishopric and several brethren; we spoke
upon the merits of the R. S. also the bene-
fits accrueing, and there-from a Relief
Society was organized with Eliza Rust,
President, Isabelle Dalton and Alvira Mur-
dock, Counselors, Agnes Carrol, Secretary,
Olive Carrol, Treasurer. President Robin-
son and Counselor G. Bastian made remarks
favorable to the Relief Society, showing
forth the good it accomplished.
	August 9th at 11 a. m. held meeting at
Aldridge of Cainesville Ward, Bishop
Walter Hanks and a number of brethren
present, good instructions were given and
the spirit of the Gospel characterized the
remarks of the speakers. In times past they
had a R. S. in that place, their President
Sarah C. Durfee had done a good work but
had moved. A Society was reorganized with
Thersa Coombs, President, Patre Turgenson
and Maria Smith, Counselors, Electa John-
son, Secretary, Elisabeth Gardner,
Treasurer.
	August 10th at 2 p. m held meeting at
Blue Valley. President W. E. Robinson,
Counselor G. Bastian, Bishop Heber J.
Wilson and a number of brethren were
present, good practical instructions were
given pertaining to building on their town
site, nearly all are living on their farm.
The subjects were union, charity and the
like and will be productive of good results.
A Society was organized with Mary Ann
Lords, President, Eliasbeth Giles and Annie
Bingham, Counselors, Sister Cook, Secre-
tary, Mary Ann White, Treasurer. 
	August 11th at 10 a. m. held meeting at
Graves Valley of the Blue Valley Ward.
President W. E. Robinson, Counselor G.
Bastian, the Bishopric of the ward and a
number of the brethren were present, we
had a very good meeting, the spiritual and
temporal of our holy religion was protrayed,
the organization of the R. S. by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. A Relief Society
was organized. Lucy Thompson, Presi-
dent, Jane Sylvester and Martha Stoddard,
Counselors, Hannah A. Elliot, Secretary,
Nettie Sanford, Treasurer.
	We appreciated the presence of our
President W. E. Robinsou and Counselor 
G. Bastian and the good counsel given by
them to each R. S. after the organization
was effected, we had very interesting
meetings and enjoyed the spirit of our
high calling, felt the blessings of our
Heavenly Father were with us in our
labors, and have faith that the Wayne
Stake Relief Society will not be behind in
good works.
	JANE S. COLEMAN, President.
	FLORENCE M. WILLIAMS, SEC'Y.


[Column 1]
THE WAR OF 1812.

[Concluded.]
	Mr. Madison thought, to appoint Henry
Clay commander in chief of the armies,
but that gentleman’s lack of military
knowledge totally unfitted him for the
position. Later there were appointed
Henry Dearborn, who had been a major
in the first war, and had served in Jef-
ferson’s cabinet,  commander in chief, and
associated with him as Brigadier, Generals
were James Wilkinson, Wade Hampton,
William Hull and Joseph Bloomfield, and
Thomas Pinckney Major-general.
	The intention had been to invade Canada
and annex it to the United States.
	The patriots said, “If we defeated Eng-
land with half our present population be-
fore, we can now drive all English from
America.’’
	The regular army at the beginning of
the war scarcely amounted to 5,000 regulars,

[Column 2]
so the president was empowered to call for
50,000 volunteers and 100,000 militia; but
some of the states refused to accede to this
demand much to the distress of the country.
	General Hull was placed in command of
the North Western army and to him the
conquest of Canada. If Arnold was a
traitor in the first war, Hull was a laggard in
the war of 1812. To his timidity and
unofficerlike conduct (for which he was
afterward courtmartialed and only saved
from death by the President) can be at-
tributed the loss of Canada.
	Thus the British gained power which was
not regained again in the north by the
Americans. The war in the north was
afterward, waged by Winfield Scott but in
the main was unsuccessful.
	The American soldiers seemed to lose on
the Canadian Side all the courage which so
marked them while defending their country.
While battle after battle was lost on land,
the American vessels were signally suc-
cessful on sea, meeting and almost
invariably defeating larger ships carrying
more guns than the redoubtable little ves-
sels of the United States.
	The “Constitution” carrying forty-four
guns, was in July chased by a whole
squadron of English Men of War and
afterwards retaliated by sinking the
“Guerriere” in a conflict of forty-five
minutes.
	This victory brought renown to the name
of Hull which had almost become a by-
word in the United States, and placed our
navy among the successful navies of the
world.
	General Dearborn never led the army into
a conflict in person; and seemed to have
planned but weakly.
	Congress withheld taxes and supplies for a
year awaiting the results of a Presidential 
election.
	The generals selected were from the
generations of people who had not been in
war, consequently many were undeserving
and incompetent. Yet a number of the
officers won renown for themselves and
country.
	Now the English claimed in a manifesto
they were reluctantly drawn into this war,
and that America had always shown sub-
servance to France and a hostility to
England.
	This manifesto was answered by Presi-
dent Madison in a most Patriotic and
Masterly address, delivered on his second
inauguration.
	The war of 1812 was by far one of great-
er moment and in the whole had greater
victories than the preceding year.
	Commodore Perry’s victory over the
English Squadron on the lakes, Generals
Harrison and Jackson’s great victories on
land were matters that sustained the fire of
patriotism and gave confidence to American
Arms.
	Passing hurriedly to the close we find the
English before New Orleans, confronted
by General Andrew Jackson and in one of
the most terrible battles fought during
tie campaign, defeated the English,
virtually ending the war.
	Meanwhile the British Government had
become weary of continuing a war, at
once so disastrous to interests and fatal to
her prestige had appointed Lord Gambier,
Henry Goulburn, and William Adams to ’ 
negotiate with Messrs. Adams, Clay,
Bayard, Gallatin and Russell of the United
States upon a treaty of peace.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The commissioners met at Ghent and
concluded on the 24th, December, 1814.
Ratified by Congress on February 17th,
1815.
	The news was brought by an English
sloop of war “Favorite” under a flag of
truce, and was hailed with the greatest
joy.
	As the president expressed it “Peace was
peculiarly welcome just then.
	March 30th following was set apart as a
day of rejoicing throughout the nation.
	Friends of the administration became
lovers, enemies were silenced and thus
closed the war of 1812.


IN MEMORIAM.
	WITH profound sadness we record the death of
another of God’s noble women, Sister Lydia Ann
Jolley the beloved wife of Elder Williamson
Westley Jolley, and loving daughter of Brother
John Brimhall and Sister Annaretta Harris Brim-
hall. Sister Lydia Ann departed this life March
28th 1893, after suffering intensely for several
months with cancer in the stomach. She was
born September 19th, 1851, at Payson, Utah Co,
and was married March 31st, 1866 to Elder Wil-
liamson Westley Jolly, by whom she had ten
children, nine of whom are living, she has ever
been a faithful wife and mother and an earnest
worker in the cause of truth. She was selected
as treasurer in the first organization of this Relief
Society which was effected April 1st, 1877, and in
March 4th, 1883 was chosen as Counselor in this
Relief Society which position she honorably held
at the time of her death. She was a model wife,
mother and house-keeper. Her home, the place
where she displayed those charming attributes of
character that made it a paradise on earth, to
those with whom she was thus associated. She
was a faithful saint in the full sense of the term;
no sacrifice was too great for her to make for the
Gospel’s Sake. She was loved and respected by
all who knew her.
	She suffered greatly but never murmured,
through her last illness she manifested unbounded
faith in the ordinances of the Gospel. Surround-
ed by her husband and children by her parents,
her brother and sisters and a host of friends, her
every, wish was anticipated. Everything that love
and sympathy could do was lavished upon her;
but prayers and tears were unavailing to prolong
her earthly career. God in his infinite wisdom
had called her home. The parting ordeal was
very severe especially for the heart broken hus-
band who scarcely left her bedside during all the
latter part of her illness. Sister Lydia Ann's
nature was purely domestic, home was the place
she adorned, and no truer wife and mother ever
lived. May the Holy Spirit be with the bereaved
ones to comfort them in their hour of trial and
prepare them for the joyful reunion awaiting
them She died as she had lived: firm in the
principles of the gospel, in the hope of a glorious
resurrection.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord!”
		CYNTHIA ANN JOLLEY, President.
		EFFIE S. JOLLEY,Asst. Secretary.


OBITUARIES.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Mary Cooper Oakey
who departed this life March 28th, 1893, at Dingle,
Bear Lake Co. Idaho. She was born March 25,
1812, at Brumsley, Nottinghamshire, England.
She joined the Church in 1849 Emigrated to
Utah 1862. Came to Paris, Bear Lake in 1865 and
was a teacher in the first Relief Society organized
in Bear Lake Valley she moved to Dingle 1873,
and held the office of first counselor to the Relief
Society at the time of her death.
	Whereas it has pleased God our Heavenly
Father to call from our midst our beloved sister
and friend at a good old age.
	Therefore be it resolved by the members of the
Dingle Relief Society that while we feel sad at
parting with our sister we will remember her
earnest exhortation, and practical faith in her
religion.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her family also published in the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT and the same be placed upon the
Record of the Relief Society.


Weep not that her toil is over,
Weep not that her race is run.
Committee
JANE A. SPARKS, Prest.
MARY ANN NATE,
SARAH DAYTON.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	IN memory of Emily Worthrop Woodard who
died in Kamas, July 12th, 1893; aged 86 years,
6 months and 5 days. Grandma Woodard, as
she was lovingly called, was born in Milford,
Conn. Embraced the Gospel in 1840,in Kirtland,
Ohio and emigrated to Utah with her family in
1847. She was a member of the first Relief
Society in Nauvoo and was a faithful member of
the Kamas Relief Society and was ever ready to
bless and comfort the sick and sorrowing, and,
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His wisdom has
seen fit to call from our midst our beloved sister.
	Therefore be it resolved that we the members
of the Relief Society emulate her humble and
faithful example.
	Resolved that we present a copy of these
resolutions, to the bereaved family, with our
sympathy for their loss, of a kind and loving
mother, and wise counselor, and that a copy be
published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and a copy
be placed on the record of the Relief Society.
ANN HARDER, Prest.
SARAH HARDER, Ass't. Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF. RESPECT.
	To the memory of Sister Elsie Booth, who
departed this life at Alpine, Utah July 10, 1893,
after a short illness, but passed away in a calm
sleep.
	Sister  Booth was born at Bedford Leigh,
Lancashire, England Dec. 21, 1825. She joined
the Relief Society here in 1867 and has been a
faithful worker ever since, she was a teacher and
secretary which offices she faithfully performed
the duties of for many years.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has seen fit in
his Alwise Providence to call from our midst our
dearly beloved sister,
	Resolved that we the members of the Relief
Society feel that we have lost a true and faithful
worker, always ready and willing to do good.
	Resolved that we cherish her memory and re-
gard her wise counsel ever worthy of emulation.
	Resolved that these resolutions be recorded in
the Record Book ot the Society and a copy sent
to the EXPONENT for publi[---]
	In behalf of the Relief Society
Committee
MARIA ADAMS,
MARY E. BATERMAN,
R. Y. NASH.

May we follow your example,
	Be as humble and as true.
Wear a crown as bright in glory,
	And return in peace like you.
R. Y. N.


DIED at Georgetown, Kane Co. Utah. July 4th,
1893, Sarah Elizabeth Stewart wife of Joseph A.
Stewart. She was the daughter of William F.
and Mary Ewell; was born April 18th, 1841, in
Livingston Co. Missouri and was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of L. D. S. when
eight years old; came to Utah, walking the great-
er part of the way. In 1862 she was married to
J. A. Stewart at Salt Lake City. She lived in
several places in the Territory and at one time
was president of the Relief Society in the Pahreah
Branch of the Kanab Ward which office she
faithfully performed. She was the mother of
six children all of whom were fondly attached to
her. She was always kind and good to her family
and to all,and died in full faith in the gospel. She
seemed to have a great desire for her children to
be faithful Latter Day Saints to study the gospel
and to live it.
Lydia A. Johnson.


DIED at Brigham City, Utah June 6th, 1893—of
cancer and tumor, Sine Peterson, beloved wife
of I. C. Peterson of Snowville. Born March 18th,
1836 in Denmark, was baptized in Dec. 1874, and
emigrated to Utah the same year: was married to
J. C. Peterson in January 1875, was called to the
office of Teacher in the Relief Society in Brigham
City before it was divided into Wards in 1876,
moved to Snowville  in 1884 ,and was called to
the same office in the Relief Society of Snowville
which office she held at the time of her death and
filled honorably and faithfully, as long as her
afflictions would allow her so to do. She lived and
died a faithful Latter-day Saint and the Relief
Society of this Ward feel that in her death they


have lost a faithful sister and co-laborer but that
our loss is her gain.
	Your sister in the Gospel of Peace.
MARY GOODLIFFE Prest.


MRS. ISABELLA BEECHER HOOKER is
the most cosmopolitan woman at the Ex- 
position. Everywhere she seems to carry
out as far as possible in her own person the
hospitable duties which she felt were of
sufficient importance to have warranted the
sitting of the Board of Lady Managers
during the summer. Her welcome to the
Catholics on their great day at the World’s
Fair and her part in the discussion at the
Jewish Women’s Congress, are two recent
instances of many that show her wide
sympathy with all who think and work and
aspire.—Ex.


R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K.THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, F[---]
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S.
WEST TEMPLE STREET,
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables. 
Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, 
SURGEON AND ACCOUCHER.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
Instructions upon these subjects; two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.

MAGGIE C. SHIPP, M. D.
	Will commence her next class in
Obstetrics and Nursing about the
middle of October.
Office, 34 East 5th South.
Telephone 383.

MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p m

DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agents for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
[--]country promptlv responded to
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
