VOL. 22. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1893. NO. 6.﻿


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. The Children—
Selected. Notes and News. A Few Reflections
—Ida Haag. Perfection—Zion’s Convert. Re-
turning Home—W. East. Farewell Party—Ann
Harvey. R. S. and Union Primary Reports. 
Slavery—Ann E. Neal. Obituary—Sarah C. Cox.
	EDITORIAL.—New Zealand Leads. A Pleasant
Journey and Visit. In Memoriam—Mercy R.
Thompson.
	POETRY.—AEolean—E. L. G. Half-way—Al-
bert Bigelow. To Sarah—Alofa.


ÆOLEAN.

I heard the wind and I listened low:
	The   wind from  the  South, and my heart was
		light,
And I smiled to hear it  blow and blow,
As it fanned my cheek to a burning glow,
	And my eyes were tearless and bright.
		Youth danced in the wind;
			Joy laughed in its face;
		Grief lingered behind,
			Nor found there a place.
 
I heard the wind, and my head was bent
To catch the breath of the free wild west,
It  brought as its lovely freightage sent,
The fragrance of flowers in sweetness blent;
	The perfumed flowers, I love the best
		Love came in the wind
			And entered my breast,
		Grief lingered behind;
			I deemed myself blest,

I heard the wind and I turned my face
	To feel the touch of the Eastern blast,
And I shivered and shrunk  in my smallest space
As I felt the chill of the wind-clouds trace
	And heard it hurrying past.
		Grief came in that wind
			And entered my heart
		Love loitered behind
			And sought to depart.

I heard the wind  though my head lay low
	I felt the North wind blow on me;
And I wept and moaned as I heard it blow
While its fury drove me  to and fro
	Too blinded and sad to see.
		Death came in the wind
			No power could save,
		And hope was consigned
			To the depth of the grave.
                                                        E. L. G.


HALF-WAY.
BY ALBERT BIGELOW.
THE years that steal our youth away
	Come drifting on—come drifting on
Like snowflakes that endure a day
	And then are gone.

Upon the hearth is blazing bright
	An open fire—I sit and dream,
And think how far into the night
	And storm its ruddy glow doth stream.

And then, within my heart tonight,
The flame of youth flares up once more,


To shed a gleam of flickering light
	Through all the dark that lies before.

And all the lost come back once more,
	And all the dead things live again,
And footsteps echo on the floor,
	And faces press against the pane.

And now I try so hard to catch,
	A whisper from the forms that pass,
To touch the hand that lifts the latch.
	The lips that tremble on the glass.

And seek to check the rising tears
	For sweet dead joys and loved ones gone,
For memories that like the years
	Come drifting on—come drifting on.

My fire burns low, but through the gloom
	Comes stealing in the gray of dawn,
The shadows scurry from the room
	Till all are gone.

And morn is here—the storm is past,
	The room is filled with ruddy day;
But on my head is drifting fast
	The snow that never melts away.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
XXXIV.
	IN leaving one’s ancestral home there
must be many peculiar feelings, especially
when it is severing such ties forever, as in
the case of Lady Anna Walton nee Hilliard.
Although at the time of her marriage she
cared little for the old castle, afterwards
her whole being (as it were) had undergone
an entire change. Now when about to
leave it forever she felt keenly how happy
she might have been there had she only 
known the lessons she had more recently 
learned.  But these experiences only came
with the years that roll on forever in quick
succession, and youth and hope were
sanguine in her heart at the time of her
marriage and the ideal picture of love and
happiness, were the allurement that shut out
for the time the realities of life, and made
her forgetful of the happiness she might
have made for herself after her cousin Jane
was installed in the castle as chief in all
departments under her father.  She rebelled
in her heart against everything except
what ministered to her own selfishness in
the affairs of love, and seemed to realize no
home duty or obligation.
	In speaking to her cousin one day at the
old home, she remarked, “should I ever
have a daughter how different her training 
and discipline shall be to what mine was,
drilled almost in deception by those under
whose tutelage I grew up without anything
real, taught to look upon all authority as
hardship, petted and scolded, never  in-
structed in anything useful or elevating,
not even moral lessons given me until you
came my dear cousin to open my eyes to a
new world of thought and activity, and
then it was too late, I was so deeply in love
with Maitland, that I was willing to risk
all, and give up home and friends for his
society alone. How have I been repaid,
but now away from England with all its
temptations, in a new land we shall surely
enjoy that sweet tranquility and home hap-
piness for which I have so constantly
yearned.  Never having known a mother's 
love, nor that of a sister or brother while
a child until Clair came,how could I under-
stand what others knew and enjoyed.”
	Her cousin replied “My dear Anna do
not dwell upon these sombre facts, let us
forget all that  is gloomy and harrowing in
the past, and look to the future for better
things than we have known heretofore, al-
though I must not repine or murmur even
of the past, for my early home life was
very happy and indeed when I came to my
uncle Edward’s everything was so new and
remarkable that looking back upon it now,
it is like a fairy tale, and I cannot but
realize the wonderful lessons I learned of
human nature in its various phases, out of
the real book of life, and these incidents
and experiences will help me to improve
myself, and make me wiser and more help-
ful to others than I could have been had I
not been brought in contact with so many
practical and puzzling enigmas.”
	“Seriously cousin Jane do you think we
shall ever come back here, and visit these 
old, dear  old places again?"
	“If Clair does not come to America and
settle you might perhaps visit him here if
things prosper and he improves this property,
but if he is gay and reckless and neglect-
ful of the responsibility and the title he bears,
there is not money enough to keep the 
estate unembarrassed and he may lose it, in
that case what disposal would be made of
the old castle and grounds would be difficult
to tell,” was the reply of the sagacious
cousin.
	“Clair is in good hands now, cousin
Jane” said Lady Anna “Uncle Rob will
educate him in habits of life that will be
beneficial in the management of the old
ruin as well as himself, and Clair is the
dearest, good-natured boy, so fond of music
and of everything beautiful, and Uncle
Rob is the best friend to us all isn’t that so?
You know how fond he was of you, I am
sure if you had not been engaged to the
Doctor, he would have made a formal offer,
of his heart and hand, but that’s all past
and Uncle Rob will never marry he told me
so, besides he is getting old, his hair is
turning grey; but you have never a word
to say about him since he left, nor do you
ask a question of me concerning their
travels though I’m sure you must be in-
terested.’’
	During this long colloquy Mrs. Bland
had been perfectly self-possessed, but at
the mention of the name of Rob Harrison
a cold tremor thrilled through her frame
and she could scarcely stand, she remained
silent not knowing scarcely herself the 
cause of her discomposure, but for the first
time for months she recalled the dream
of the great forest, the sea, and the ship
coming in, which had so impressed her at
the time; and she regretted that her cousin
shoudl have called up Uncle Rob, just as
they were trying to  be cheerful and shut 
out from memory all the former scenes and
occurences that would aggrivate and de-
press them when saying their last goodbye
to the land of their nativity.


﻿	The preparations were hurriedly made for
leaving England by Dr. Bland and young
Lord Walton, but they were also carefully
arranged, and when at last they departed
with their families and belongings, there was
nothing particularly affecting; they had no
near relatives to mourn only the old servants
and retainers, who begged them not to go
and leave their homes to strangers; lady
Anna assured the faithful old people who
were in charge of Hilliard castle that her
brother Clair would be a kind master if they
served him faithfully, and gave some
instructions about keeping everything in
good order ’till his return which she assured
them would be very soon.
	Lady Walton the mother had written
Maitland and Anna wishing them “bon
voyage” and enjoining upon them the
remembrance that baby Edward was the
future heir to the title and estates of the
Waltons. She expressed no regrets through
she knew the mighty ocean would lie be-
tween her and her only son, who had been
the pride of her life and for whom she had
made many sacrifices.
	The excitement consequent upon leaving
home and the journey in a lumbering old
coach, was almost too much for Lady Anna
whose nervous condition was always
delicate, and the least unusual strain pros-
trated her and gave her hysterical
symptoms. Mrs. Bland had serious fears
about the sea-voyage, but having made
such determined efforts to go and sacrificed
much in leaving, there seemed no alterna-
tive but to persevere and make the best of
whatever circumstances interposed; she
knew too that her cousin would not consent
to return even were it practicable, and in
fact on some accounts it would be almost
impossible.
	Arriving at Ipswich they had a few days
to rest and recruit before going on board
and Lady Anna recuperated considerably
which gave her friends fresh courage.
	While at the seashore, Lady Anna
had time to moralize and take a restrospec-
tive view of her life; she had an inmate
reverence for things that were pure and true
and utter abhorence of evil and impurity
in fact the divinely maternal nature was
strongly and delicately developed; and now
in her more real and mature,actual life, she
looked back with a sort of horror upon the
unconscious mistakes she had made through
injudicious training, and she prayed
fervently to know what would be the
wisest and best course to pursue in the
future; for she realized a new era was
beginning for her in which material changes
might be made, that would prove elevating
to herself and her husband, as well as her
child; these ideas and thoughts she impart-
ed to her cousin in whom she felt the most
implicit confidence; and they talked to-
gether of the mode of'worship in which
both of them had been reared, though in
fact Lady Anna had no religion, (except
such as her own heart dictated) but with
Jane Bland it was different, she was a
clergyman’s daughter and knew the ritual
perfectly and all the outward forms and
ceremonies of the Church of England; she
believed in the theory as taught, but she
was not bigoted nor was she prejudiced
against other forms or principles of religious
doctrine, and had met and conversed with
dissenters whose zeal and enthusiasm she
greatly admired. Her husband the good
doctor believed in freedom of speech, and
of thought, and was vigorously opposed
to the persecution of those who differed

[Column 2]
from the established Church of his native
country. In conversing with him Mrs.
Bland had gained many new ideas, and
much general information, in regard to the
views and opinions of the class of people
called Puritans. She was not prepared to
state positively to her cousin Anna her
sentiments on the subject of religious
belief, but said to her inadvertently on one
occasion, “we are going to sail with some
of those radical Puritans; there was no
other vessel leaving in which we could get
passage.” Lady Anna was amazed,
“Why cousin Jane I have heard they are
opposed to aristocracy, they are for
equality, and hate the British government,
have no respect for rulers and believe in
having all things common.” “My dear
cousin do not be alarmed my husband
knows some of those men well, and he
says they are honorable, honest and up-
right, worthy citizens, and brave in facing
danger or even death for their religious
belief; such characteristics must necessarily
be noble.”
	“Cousin Jane I rely upon your judg-
ment more than my own, your husband
may not have the same prejudices against
the common people that Maitland has, who
is as you know a patrician born and bred,
and though I confess the Doctor to be more
truly noble in character, yet the fact still
remains; you understand me cousin, I do
not mean to offend, pardon me if I am
wrong, tell me cousin, for we are of one
lineage you and I, but we are women and
our natures are more susceptible to good-
ness and to purity, and I have learned dur-
ing the last few months such bitter lessons
of men’s arrogance and harshness towards
those ignobly born.”
	“I scarcely know what to answer, but
this, that true merit must always be my
standard of excellence as I doubt not it is
yours, and though you are several years
younger, yet you have seen enough of
‘polite society’ to convince you of the
shallowness of its forms and the insincerity
of its votaries; you grew weary of it in one
short London season, and I who am natur-
rally a sort of prude,could not countenance
even the little glimpses I had of the
‘upper ten,’ at Hilliard castle, even though
on my mother’s side I am descended
through the race from which Earls and
Barons have sprung. My father as you
know was only a poor clergyman and my
mother ignored because of her marriage
with one beneath her in rank, and I am a
Conway at heart, although uncle Edward
would insist I had the Hilliard
characteristics.’’
	“You have not answered me, satisfactorily
cousin Jane, but this I know that where we
are going titles will be of small con-
sequence, and indeed unless one has some
office under the government, we are all
commoners, and Maitland’s pride will be
terribly mortified should he be only Mr.
Walton instead of Lord Walton, as for the
Doctor his title would be the same in all
lands; and you are too wholly unselfish
ever to think of these insignificant things
that puzzle your frivolous cousin. You
have so much within yourself, and I want
some one strong and wise to lean upon, if
I only had a faith that would be sufficient
for my daily needs, as good old Angelina
used to tell me, I would not have these sad
misgivings, and doubts that seem to haunt
me now almost constantly.”
	"I am glad cousin that you remember
Angelina’s teachings, she was a Saint in

[Column 3]
very deed and told me on her death bed of
your mother’s history; things we had never
known, and some day when we are alone
and I have time I will repeat it to you;
you have her temperament,but your life has
been so different” “my mother’s history I
thought no one knew it except uncle Rob
and he would never talk of her only to
declare “she was an angel.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


THE CHILDREN.
	WE can never give children too many
legitimate pleasures. Childhood should be
made as sunny and happy as unlimited love
and tenderness and wise indulgence can
make it. The shadows fall soon enough
in the most fortunate lives. Yet we can-
not, with all our endeavors, make the hard
paths easy for the little feet we long to save.
The children must learn to fight their be-
setting sins, each for himself, if they are to
be strong men and women in the days to
come.
	Is there no reward that we can safely
offer to cheer them in the contest beside the
abstract satisfaction that comes from a
sense of duty done? There is one very
potent one. In a household where love
rules, and there is perfect confidence be-
tween parents and children, it is stronger
and more compelling than any that can be
devised. This is the warm approbation
and loving approval of those in authority
freely bestowed when it is deserved. We
have all felt our hearts thrill at a word of
praise from those we love. No effort has
seemed too great to win again the smile of
pleasure, or the expression of satisfaction
that gave such deep delight, weariness
we count as naught, trouble we do not
recognize as such while we are striving to
call it forth. A few syllables of apprecia-
tion and gratitude, one look of love, repay
us a thousandfold for all that we have done.
If we fail, if there is no recognition of our
efforts, no response to our mute appeal, if
we are met with silent indifference, or per-
haps even impatient criticism of something
we have left undone in our haste to do all,
we are apt to feel for the moment that life
is not very well worth living. Worse than
this it requires a greater effort than most of
us are capable of to rise above our crushing
disappointment, and take up our daily
burdens in that spirit of patience we ought
to bring to them. Our hearts harden as
the conviction forces itself upon us that
those we love do not care for anything we
can do to please them, or do not think that
we can do sufficently well to merit their
commendation. Few of us realize what a
mighty spur to well doing is contained in
words of loving praise, or how we sin
affainst those nearest to us in with-holding
them when they are deserved.—SELECTED.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. LAURA ORMISON CHANT went
on to California from the Religious Con-
gresses in Chicago. She is filling several
engagements there.
	MRS. LUCY STONE is seriously ill. In
answer to many inquiries, we state that she
is much reduced in flesh and in strength,
but suffers no pain, and generally passes
comfortable nights. Any important change
will be reported in the Journal, A. S. B.
Woman's Journal Sep. 30th.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO SARAH.

THIS fern, a little beauty, on the rugged moun-
	tain grew;
And gets its pretty lustre from storms it has
	passed through,
It grew where great old boulders for years have
	reared their heads;
To mark the lonely beaten path,the weary travel-
	er treads;
Where rain has poured in torrents, where fiercest
	winds have blown
By Nature’s God protected, my tiny fern has
	grown.

The rays of scorching summer sun’s might well
	have dried its leaves,
Or roaming beast have nipped it from the soil to
	which it cleaves;
The pouring rains have washed its roots and left
	them bare and dry
For coming winds to twirl about and scatter in
	the sky.
But lo! a giant tree is there to temper wind and
	rain—
Protection from the burning rays the sun sheds
	there in vain.

And thus the little plant has grown in beauty 
	wondrous, grand,
Until, to fill a higher sphere, ‘twas plucked by
	human hand
And pressed and dried, and now is sent to one
	across the sea—
A token of undying love which fills my heart for
	thee;
Although a thing of little worth, it yet may serve
	this end
And, till once more I clasp thy hand, remind thee 
	of a friend.

And cannot we compare our lives unto the little
	fern?
Do giant rocks not lift their heads at every nook
	and turn?
Do trials not like pouring rain descend upon our
	cot?
Our faults, are they not like the wind exposed
	with little thought?
Do sickness, want and sorrow come, like wither-
	ing summer heat?
And does not Father ever guard our humble, low
	retreat?

And when death takes us from the place we long
	have known and loved,
And we to fill a holier sphere, from trying scenes
	are moved,
For all the sorrows we have passed, the trials
	we’ve endured,
Shall we not shine the brighter in the joy we have
	secured?
O, let the fern a lesson teach of guileless trust
	and love,
That we may serve our Maker’s plan and dwell
	with Him above.
							ALOFA.
Samoa, Oct, 18th, 1892.


A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	IT was a charming and most pleasing
scene that met my gaze as I called at Sister
A’s one warm sunny afternoon,and the one
hour chit chat that followed was a source
of real pleasure and edification to me and
from which I will sketch a few lines, which
possibly may assist some poor tired over-
worked mother.
	Mrs. A. arose and bade me welcome
with one of her sweet motherly smiles,
Brother A. who was seated at the farther
end of their neat pretty sitting room busily
writing welcomed me in his usually abrupt,

[column 2]
precise yet gentlemanly; manner after the
first common everyday greetings had been
passed we gradually launched out and
touched upon subjects that much interested
me they being people of culture and refine-
ment I was conscious that here I might
learn a lesson that might be possibly a
future benefit to me and many others, as I
had often heard of her great magnanimous
sterling character and not unfrequently
heard her styled a noble mother in Israel,
and who could doubt it looking on that
calm unruffled face. 
	While speaking upon the past, present,
and future, she said, “In my native country
I had never been accustomed to hard
drudgery labor, being forced to resort to
this on my arrival here in Utah this became
a very severe trial, as I was not very strong
often I would weepover the wash tub as
felt my strength failing and almost give
up disheartened, then my better self would
come to my rescue and I would retire to an
old covered in wagon box and pray in secret
to my Heavenly Father for strength in that
great hour of trial.” She further said,
“I would then feel strengthened and per-
fectly able to finish the task allotted to me
and would even finish with a song on my
lips, I knew my Father had heard and
answered my prayer.” Mrs. A. continued
in her sweet winning way “to be cheerful at
work became a fixed rule and I felt well
repaid on hearing my husband once say to
a gentleman friend who had been complain-
ing of blue Monday,” “It isn’t so at our
house, my wife is always cheerful on that
day and I feel stimulated as I hear my
children say ‘mother always sings when
she has a difficult task to perform.”
	After a somewhat lengthy call, and I had
left this noble woman’s house, I felt much
satisfaction at the time well spent, and as the
result of my call many thoughts flashed
through my mind and I asked myself, how
many homes might be transformed into al-
most a paradise that are now cheerless if
Sister A’s. rule was but adopted. How
many wives might entice their husbands to
spend more time at home? How many
mothers their sons, if this were the case!
and then again how one thoroughly enjoys
a chat of this kind instead of the common,
flimsy everyday talk so common among
many. Indeed as I glance back I recall
another theme equally good and beautiful
given to me that afternoon.
	How deeply I regret my inability to gather
in and scatter abroad again the rich treasures
I discern on every side in life’s pathway.
	Onward and upward the stairway of
knowledge, as I sit here alone at midnight’s
quiet hour, a sigh wells up from the heart
at the thought how slow the progress.
	In July 15th, of the EXPONENT
“Camelia” refers to the convenience of a
note-book a great many echo that feeling.
We cannot have  too many “Passing
Thoughts” they are charming, one good
sister says they alone are worth the one
dollar subscription fee, so full of good com-
mon sense are they.			IDA HAAG.
	Woodland Aug. 6th, 1893.


PERFECTION.

	CAN we arrive at perfection in this life,
is the question. Well our Savior said,
“Be ye perfect as your Father in Heaven is
perfect.” The word of the Lord through

[column 2]
his prophet Moses, said “be holy for I am
holy.’’
	The question arises, would He ask you
or I to do that which we could not do, you
know that in all the rules of Arithmetic
those who are perfectly acquainted with the
rules can solve the difficult problem alike,
and to the satisfaction of the teacher. Can-
not the rules or laws of life be accomplished
on the same principle? Believing this life
is a school, it is well to give strict heed to
our lessons that we may profit by them.
The holy Bible being our guide, not only
so, but the Book of Mormon also Doctrine
and Covenants. The Epistle of St. Peter
beautifully illustrates this lesson: as we
read in 20th, chapter 1st, Epistle “Where-
fore lay aside all malice and guile, and evil
speaking, as new born babes desire the
sincere milk of the word that ye may grow
thereby.’’
	Now I would ask, do not we feel greatly
blessed when we can realize that we are
growing in a knowledge of the truth in
Christ Jesus, and can see the designs and
purposes of God our Father concerning the
human family, to fit and qualify them to
come again into His presence, where we
must give an account how we have spent
our talents and our time.
	Also the 22nd, verse of 1st chapter same
Epistle. How encouragingly he speaks to
those who have begun the good work: he
says ‘‘seeing ye have purified your souls in
obeying the truth through the Spirit unto
unfeigned love for the brethren, see that
ye love one another with a pure heart
fervently,’’ (5th chapter, 5th verse) he says
also, “Likewise ye younger submit your-
selves unto the elder, yea, all be subject one
to the other, and be clothed with humility:
for God resisteth the proud and giveth
grace to the humble. Humble yourselves
under the mighty hand of God that He
may exalt you in due time.”
	Pardon me when I say, it annoys me to
hear our people say they are proud of this
or that. I feel to ask when did they get
this privilege of being proud of anything,
since the ancients always are cautioning
their people to beware of pride as some-
thing dangerous.
	Please read 10th, chapter of St. Luke
where Jesus sent out the Seventy to preach
the gospel, and in 17th verse they return
telling of their success, saying “Lord even
the devils are subject to us through thy
name.” After he makes a few remarks,
he says 20th, verse “Rejoice not that the
devils are subject to you; but rather re-
joice because your names are written in
heaven.”
	Jesus himself gained the victory and they
had no reason to be proud of this success.
Yet I think in these one would hear of some
who would think they had a right to be
proud of such success. Let such be care-
ful lest their feet slip as Lucifer designs
they shall.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith also said in
Doctrine and Covenants, “Beware of pride
for it bringeth a snare upon your souls:”
Are we careful as we should be to be safe
from this snare? This is the question I
often ask myself, for human nature is
weak at best, and only when living to and 
measuring ourselves by the golden rule are
we perfectly safe. It is when I compare
the Latterday Saints with those of former
days that my fears are aroused upon this
subject.
				ZION'S CONVERT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, - - OCTOBER 1, 1893


NEW ZEALAND LEADS.
	NEW ZEALAND has shown great political
liberality in giving women equal suffrage
and has set an example worthy of imitation
by all other countries. It is a triumph for
the cause of equal rights and will doubtless
be accentuated by public celebrations in
many other lands demonstrating their ap-
proval of the New Parliament. Slowly
but surely the shackles are falling, rusty
from long usage these time worn chains of
bondage fall off gradually as the new and
brighter civilization advances and the
larger humanity takes preceedence of old
theories and superstitions, and so the world
moves on to its greater needs, and a new
element is infused by woman’s help into
the governments of the world.
	For three years past the New Zealand
House of Representative has passed
bills giving women the privilege of voting
equal with men,but this year the bill to en-
franchise women passed both the lower
and upper House, and has received the
formal assent of the Governor.
	This victory is even a greater one than
the enfranchisement of the women of
Wyoming, because New Zealand has
sovereign powers and is in itself in a certain
sense an embryo nation. New Zealand
will be the first to vote for a real Parliament,
although the fact must not be lost sight of
that women on the Isle of Man have
Parliamentary suffrage, nor must it be for-
gotten that the municipal suffrage is en-
joyed by unmarried women and widows in
England, Scotland and some Canadian
provinces.
	The EXPONENT in behalf of the women
of Utah offers its most sincere and fervent
congratulations to these fortunate women,
who have been endowed with equal rights
and privileges, and may the day speed
quickly on, when the women of Great
Britain and the United States of America
may be able to celebrate on their own ac-
count a similar victory.


A PLEASANT JOURNEY AND VISIT.
	By invitation of Mrs Mary A. Hyde
President of the Relief Society in Sanpete
Stake we attended the Conference of that
Society held at Ephraim on the 22nd of
September Mrs. E. S. Taylor General
President of Young Ladies’ Associations
having also been invited to attend the Y.
L. M. I. A. Conference held at the same
place on the 23rd, we journeyed together
over the R. G. W. R. R. and had a most de-


lightful time. It being the season of
of charming colors and the sunshine flood-
ing the hills with that peculiar beauty of
the blue and crimson glow known to the
Wasatch range, the autumnal tints shone
out vividly and the mountain scenery was
picturesque beyond description. At
Ephraim we received a hearty welcome,
and the feeling of calm content that perva-
ded this locality, was a decided change from
the bustle of the city and the constant echo-
ing of hard times. A bountiful harvest has
been the reward of toil and thrift, and the
people are happy in the possession of peace-
ful homes in these mountain vales and are
not panting for the filthy lucre that
brings so much care and anxiety and very
often strife.
	The sisters in the Relief Society and in
the Y. L. M. I. A. are doing a good work
in an even unassuming way, but as we ex-
pect the secretary to send us a synopsis of
the minutes of the Conference, we will
speak of the pleasant reunion party,and the
Fair, which were a part of the program in
connection with the visit.
	On Friday and Saturday in one of the
large halls of the new schoolhouse where
the Conference was held, the Y. L. had
arranged an exhibit; and it made a very
creditable showing; there were many
articles of fancy work and painting that
were well executed. The botanical speci-
mens were particularly good and well-
arranged and would have been suitable for
the World’s Fair. We have not time to
enumerate the variety or speak of their
merits, only in a general way to say the
young women deserve praise for the sensible
effort, and though the entrance fee was very
small they made some money for present
needs, and it was certainly a commendable
enterprise.
	The dinner and entertainment or reunion
took place Friday evening after the close
of the Conference, in the hall where the
meeting had been held. The dinner was
delicious and handsomely served, and
some of the young ladies played the organ
during dinner time, which added to the
enjoyment. Afterwards there was singing
and recitations and a manuscript paper
“The Literary Fly’’ was read by the
editor. We were most hospitably enter-
tained by Brother Willardson, President
Canute Peterson, Bishop Dorius and the
household of these good brethren, and we
thoroughly enjoyed the visit, the meetings,
the conversation, the meeting with old
friends and new, and noting the happiness
and prosperity and progress of the people
who live more within their own means and
are comparatively free from difficulties and
embarrassments.


IN MEMORIAM.
MERCY R. THOMPSON.
	SISTER MERCY R. THOMPSON who de-
parted this life September 15th, 1893 at the
great age of eighty six years and three
months was a veteran mother in Israel, and
a woman of particularly strong and heroic
character. She was also sympathetic and
benevolent in her nature, and possessed of
many gracious womanly qualities which
gave her a well-balanced mind and a tender
heart. She had a rather remarkable life,
passed through many scenes of trial and
made great sacrifices, yet was always firm
in the advocacy of correct principles, and
maintained the utmost integrity to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints
which she embraced in the early days of
the Church.
	Sister Thompson had patiently shared in
the persecutions and drivings of the Saints
from place to place since the Church was
first established in Kirtland, Ohio, whither
she had journeyed from Canada, where she
had received the true Gospel. Sister
Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson (the
deceased sister whose demise we now re-
cord) was born in Preston England on the
15th, of June. This young woman
emigrated to Canada with her younger
brother Joseph Fielding in 1832, where she
resided at Toronto when Elder Parley P.
Pratt came there on a mission in 1836 at
which time she and her brother were
baptized and the following Spring moved to
Kirtland, where her sister Mary who ac-
companied also had come over to Canada in
1834. In Kirtland soon after their arrival
Sister Mercy R. Fielding was married to
Elder Robert B. Thompson a man of
literary attainments, who subsequently be-
came private secretary to the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Her sister Mary was
afterwards married in Kirtland, to Elder
Hyrum Smith in December 1837.
	The Fieldings were of a good old
English family; the brother Rev. James
Fielding of Preston, England, was a 
religious reformer of some ministerial im
portance, and had sufficient influence to
establish and become the head of a Congre-
gational Methodist Church in which he
sought to revive the spiritual power of the
original Wesleyan movement. Sister Thomp-
son was of a distinctively religious type of'
character, and was ready to make almost
any sacrifice to assist the Church in works
of charity and benevolence, or enterprises
of a like nature; has always made liberal
donations to such purposes as building
Temples and emigrating the poor. It has
been stated that she had contributed more
means to the Salt Lake Temple than any
other sister in the Church; she was a mem-
ber of the first organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, and has ever
since been associated in, and energetic in
the work and labors of this benevolent and
important institution; she held the position
of Treasurer in the Relief Society of the
Sixteenth Ward in this City where she
resided, and was faithful and efficient in the 
performance of the duties of her office to
the time of her death, (some twenty-one
years) though for a number of years she
had not been able to attend meetings. The
past eight years on account of the infirmities
of age, she had been obliged to remain
seated in an invalid chair, and be carried
from room to room and place to place when
circumstances required. Her patience and-
resignation in her sufferings, and to her
condition, and the will of God, were quite
remarkable, and her testimony to the truth
on all occasions was strong and persuasive;
her conversation was full of light and intel-
ligence, which made it ever a pleasure to 
be in her society.
	Sister Thompson had received all the
endowments and blessings in Nauvoo, under 
the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith
and his co-laborers in the ministry,
that the Saints have been privileged to en-
joy, and lived to be present at the dedication
of the Salt Lake Temple which she had
strongly desired; and which she greatly
appreciated.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


She officiated in the Temple at Nauvoo,
during the fall of 1845 or winter of 1846.
	She came to Utah in Elder Parley P.
Pratt’s company, arriving in Salt Lake
Valley in September 1847—she was one of
the pioneers in the Church in all its move-
ments.
	Her husband, Robert Blaskel Thompson
died in Nauvoo on the 17th, of Aug. 1841.
	She made a visit to Canada starting Nov.
15th, 1871, to see her old friends and the
relatives of her husband and to gather
geneological records, returning to this city
March 16th, 1872, and the same year she
accompanied President George A. Smith
and his Palestine party, as far as England
where she remained, visiting her numerous
relatives and friends, gathering records and
bearing her testimony to them of the truths
of the gospel, and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith, until June 1873, when she
returned home.
	This beloved and respected sister and
veteran mother passed away at last in peace,
and her death was doubtless a triumphant
entrance behind the vail, where she would
meet her husband, and the Prophet arid
Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum, her Sister
Mary and her brothers who had gone before,
and an innumerable company of departed
Saints, with many of whom she had
labored in the Latter-day work in this
dispensation.
	Sister Thompson leaves one daughter
Sister Mary Jane Thompson, who is great-
ly bereaved through her mother’s loss, for
they were inseparable companions in life;
and a grandson the namesake of his noble
grandfather Robert B. Thompson, besides
hosts of relatives and friends who esteemed
her for her many virtues and as a venerable
mother in Israel. Her name will be held
in honorable remembrance by the Latter-
day Saints throughout all time, and may
our Heavenly Father comfort her daughter
and may she follow in the footsteps of her
illustrious mother and attain to the same
excellence and be worthy the same exalta-
tion.
	“Those who have battled for truth with their
	mind and might,
	With their garments clean and their armor
	bright.”


RETURNING HOME.

Editor Woman's Exponent.
	I WISH to say through the columns of
the EXPONENT that my health is so far im-
proved that I expect to start home in a few
days to resume my labors in the St. Joseph
Stake of Arizona where I shall use my
influence in the interest of the EXPONENT
Deseret News and Young Ladies Journal
which I think should be the duty of every
officer in the Church organizations of women;
in our various reports from our stake we
should not omit to say that President
Layton has rendered that aid that was
necessary to enable us to make our visit by
giving us a pass on the stage line of which
he is proprietor and also attending the Con-
ference of the Associations and giving that
encouragement that tends to the growth
and development of the Stake over which
he is called to preside.
						W. EAST.


FAREWELL PARTY.

	“WE the members of Center Ward Relief
Society, meet to pay our respects to Sister


Mary E. Cluff our President as she is going
to Arizona to live, we unitedly come to
thank her for her kindness in letting us
meet in her comfortable house and to thank
our Heavenly Father for the good spirit we
enjoyed when together, which will be long
remembered by us all, as a token of love
we all present you with a Book of Mormon
from willing minds, that within this kind
circle your heart may rejoice for blessings
are for you from every voice.”
	A pleasing repast was spread and with
suitable conversation partaken of by the
hostess and her friends.
	We subscribe our names as follows,
		ELLEN HUNDLEY, 
		ANN RICHARDSON, Counselors.
		ANN C. HARVEY, Secretary.
		MILLIA HARVEY,
		ALBERTINA PETERSON,
		CATHARINE MILLER.
		MARIA PRIESTLEY,
		MARY BLAKE,
		SISTER LOYD.

					ANN HARVEY, Sec.


“AN event in connection with the Parlia-
ment of Religions, was a reception given to
the delegates by the Board of Lady
Managers in the Woman’s Building. Mrs.
Palmer presided, and she invited the dele-
gates to explain the status of women in
their own lands and in what degree this
might be due to religion and in what to
other conditions, meanwhile suggesting, in
the course of her felicitous remarks, that
Christianity afforded the best conditions for
women. Among the speakers was P. C.
Mozoomdar, the most liberal of Hindus.
He said they were studying the problem of
woman’s education in India. Khersedji
Laugran, of Bombay, followed with an
eloquent speech in favor of the complete
emancipation of women, declaring his
belief in their absolute equality. Professor
Tcheraz, of the Armenian Church, also
declared himself in favor of the emancipa-
tion of women.”


[column 1]
R. S. AND P. A REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened
in the Assembly Hall, Friday Sep. 22nd,
1893, President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened with singing, “O
Jesus the Giver ’ etc. Prayer was offered
by Catherine Smith, singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion,” etc. Roll called
and responded to as follows, twenty-three
branches represented by Presidents, nine by
Counselors, one by Secretary; six, by
Teachers, making  in all thirty-nine
branches, leaving nine without representa-
tion. The minutes of previous Conference
were then read and accepted. Also Statisti-
cal, Financial and Treasurer’s Report.
President Horne said it had been voted up-
on that we omit reading the reports from
each branch, as it took up so much time
congratulated the sisters on sending in so
many reports, as it enabled us to have so
complete a total. Regretted there was not
a better attendance at the conference. As
this was head-quarters for this stake of
Zion, we should set a good example. All
officers should be present to represent their
respective branches. As verbal reports
were given from county wards at the last
Conference, would have reports from city

[Column 2]
wards. 1st ward, Prest. Steel; 2nd, Prest.
Bassett; 3rd, Coun. Smith; 4th, Prest.
Pierce; 5th, Coun. Buchanan; 6th, Prest.
West; 7th, Prest. Lambert; 9th, Prest.
Mair; 10th, Prest. Paul; 11th, Prest.
Mc Master; 12th, Prest. Druce; 13th, Coun.
Spencer; 14th, Prest. Wilcox; 15th, Coun.
Price; 16th, Prest. Reid; 18th, Sec. Wright;
19th, Coun. Rawlins; 22nd, Prest. Whipple.
Each ward was favorably reported.
Prest. Horne expressed herself as being
pleased with the reports given, spoke upon
the present stringency. Gave good advice
to those present in regard to keeping out of
debt and patronizing home industries,
especially the Woman’s Store. Said presi-
dents of the Relief Society should use their
influence in sustaining this and all other
institutions of the Latter-day Saints, thatwe may be able to build up Zion. Spoke of
the importance of storing up grain against
a time of want, and dwelt at some length
upon the various duties devolving upon
us. Sang, “Doxology,’’ benediction by
Elizabeth Pixton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Opened by sing-
ing, “We thank Thee O, God for a
Prophet.” Prayer by M. W. Wilcox,
singing “Redeemer of Israel” etc. Sister
Elizabeth Pixton spoke upon the subject of
duty. We should perform those duties
that came in our way and that our hearts
admonished us to do, and not wait to have
them pointed out to us, urged us to open
our hearts and hands to the poor, and to be
diligent in the performance of every duty.
	Mesdames Webb, Stevenson, Wilcox,
Clawson, Cutler, Gibson and Silcock, all
made interesting remarks, bearing their
testimony to the truth of the gospel and
dwelling principally upon the present
situation and of our duties to the poor,
spoke of their labors in the Temple and of
the beautiful spirit and influence that pre-
vailed there.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze urged upon us the
importance of keeping the “word of wis-
dom,” in taking care of our bodies that we
may be prepared for future usefulness, also
spoke of her work in the temple, and of
the necessity of working for our dead
friends.
	Sister Emma Woodruff gave a very in-
teresting description of her trip East with
the Presidency and choir; spoke of the
kind spirit in which they were received at
Independence, contrasted the present time
with the time when they were driven from
that place. President Horne followed with
instructive remarks dwelling principally
upon our duties to the poor and upon the
evils of fault-finding, and spoke of the
duties devolving upon us as wives and
mothers, and as Latter-day Saints.
Conference was then adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Lord dismiss us with
thy blessing,” etc. Benediction by Emily
Stevenson.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Acting Sec.


SAN LUIS STAKE, COLORADO.  
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
San Luis Stake of Zion convened in the
Sanford meeting house Sep. 10th, 1893.
	President Cornelia Mortensen presiding,
conference opened with singing “The time
is nigh.” Prayer was offered by Brother
George W. Irvin and choir sang, “Lift up
your heads ye scattered Saints.”
	President C. Mortensen said we had met
this morning to have our Conference, prayed


[Column 1]
for the Spirit of God to be with us that we
may be fed with the bread of life. Was
much pleased to see so many present.
	Sister Sophia Holt gave a brief report
of Manassa ward, said but a small percent-
age of those enrolled attended, but those
who did come enjoyed their meetings and
the Spirit of God was with them.
	Sister Cary Jensen gave a favorable re-
port of Richfield Ward, showing their
desire to do all the good they could.
	Sister Sena Heiselt spoke encouragingly
to the sisters and bore her testimony to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Margaret Haskell, Stake President
of the Primary Association, made some
very interesting remarks concerning the
necessity of having our children taught
the way to life and salvation,and the duties
of mothers in this respect.
	Bishop John Dalton of Manassa said “In
meeting with the brethren and sisters in
this conference today I am reminded of the
stone referred to by Daniel the Prophet,
that should be cut out without hands and
roll over the whole earth it surely is being
done.”
	Counselor Jane Crowther spoke of the
great blessings the Relief Society is to
the poor and sick, said it is one of the
greatest worksin our midst.
	Sister Emily Dunn gave a very good re-
port of East Dale Branch.
	Statistical and Financial Report, of the
Stake was read by the Secretary.
	Sister Martha E. Smith spoke a short
time showing the necessity of prayer.
	Sister Jane Hostetter expressed her joy
at being gathered, with the Saints and refer-
ed to the great contrast between the dark-
ness that prevailed in the world and the
light of the Gospel.
	Sister Stover dwelt at length upon the
necessity of parents setting worthy ex-
amples before their children, and gaining
their confidence in order to have an influence
over them.
	Singing “Earth wtth her ten thousand
flowers.” Benediction by Brother Christen
Jensen.
	ALTERNOON MEETING.—Singing “My
God the spring of all my joys” etc. Prayer
by Brother Levi P. Helm. Singing “Be-
hold the mountain of the Lord" etc. Sac-
rament was administered.
	President Albert R. Smith said a good
spirit was in our midst, the Relief Society
is a great work in this church.” The Lord
has given his spirit to every soul that has
been born, and being inspired by him many
have been led to do good to their fellowmen.
This is the case with the sisters, they go
about ministering comfort and help to the
poor, sick and downcast. It is the duty of
husbands to sustain them with means to do
this and I think they do. The sisters have
many callings and much to learn, to know
how to raise their children in the ways of
God.”
	Sister M. A. R. White gave a good and
encouraging report of the Primary Associa-
tion of Sanford. She expressed her joy for
the faithfulness of the sisters in visiting the
primary meetings.
	Sister Hannah Christensen gave a good
report of the Primary Association of
Manassa and spoke of the necessity of being
dictated by the Spirit of God in performing
our duties in this church. The Church and
Stake officers of the Relief Society were
presented by the Secretary and unanimously
sustained.

[Column 2]
	Sister V. Helm spoke a short time and
bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel.
	Counselor Magdaline Funk expressed
her joy at being present on this occasion
and partaking of the good spirit here
with us today. Spoke at length upon the
great responsibilities resting upon mothers
in raising their families in righteousness
and the duties of children to their parents,
urged every sister to have her name enrolled
in the Relief Society, and let nothing but
sickness prevent her from beings at meet-
ings.
	Stake President C. Mortensen represented
the Relief Society of Sanford in the absence
of the president and gave a very favorable
report of the sisters. She showed the
necessity of being very humble and said
we should have a prayer in our hearts
continually so we may be able to teach our
children to go forward in life. Whatever
influence is given the mother by the hus-
band is given the children by the mother.
Laying up wheat is a duty that should be
complied with as it has always been urged
by the leading sisters of the Relief Society.
	Counselor George W. Irvin of Sanford
made a few encouraging remarks to the
sisters of the Relief Society.
	Conference was adjourned for six months.
Singing “Now let us rejoice” etc. Benedic-
tion by Brother T. A. Crowther.
	MARY F. Crowther. Sec.
	REORGANIZATION.
	Owing to the resignation of Sister
Martha E. Smith which occurred at our
conference last March our Stake officers
have been reorganized as follows,
	Sister Cornelia Mortensen was set apart
as president with Sister Magdaline Funk
as first and Sister Jane Crowther as second
counselor and Mary F. Crowther as
secretary.
	During the summer season we have
visited the different branches and found all
in a flourishing condition and enjoyed our
visit very much. M.F. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UNION PRIMARY.
Dear Sister Wells:
	THE Primary Association held its
Annual Meeting Sep 13th, 1893. Sisters
Ellen C. Clawson and her Counselor
Camilla Cobb of the Stake Presidency, also
Bishop Phillips and a number of the local
officers of the Ward, as well as parents of
the children were present.
	The program consisted as follows,
Meeting opened by singing “How sweet
how heavenly is the sight,” &c. Prayer
by Master Heber Burgon, singing “Little
children love the Savior,” the manuscript
paper was read by the Editor Miss Phebe
Greenwood entitled “Zion’s Hope.”
	Minutes of the last Annual Meeting read
and received also the report both being
unanimously received, song by Jessie
Dewey and Emily Smith entitled the
“Unknown Grave,” recitation by Alcy
Brady, “The Babes in the Woods.” Essay
by Annie Anderson on “Obedience.” An
Organ solo by Annie Jenson, recitation by
Marion S. Brady, the Articles of Faith
were repeated by the Association, Anthem
“Jerusalem my glorious home,” was very
finely sung by Misses Zina Ball treble, Annie
Walker alto, Lula Fern tenor and Master
Everet Griffiiths bass; the four parts being
very nicely blended together.
	Sister E. C. Clawson spoke encouragingly


to the children, upon improvement,
prayer, truthfulness and made some other
excellent remarks.
	Sister Cobb was delighted with the
children and for the sweet spirit that was
present, spoke on improvement, faith, and
gave words of encouragment both to of-
ficers and children.
	Bishop Phillips said “I am well pleased
with, the children of the Primary, know
the pleasure a mother feels when her
children take a part in the program like
these children have today do not want
any change in the officers of this Association
when I see what I have this morning” and
gave some fatherly counsel to old and
young, meeting adjourned 'till two p. m.
Singing “In the chambers of the Mountains”
&c. Benediction by Master Johnnie
Sharp. 
	Two p. m. meeting convened; singing,
“Nay speak no ill a kindly word,” prayer
by Bishop T. Phillips, singing an Anthem
composed by Brother C. Denney, recitation
by the little boys entitled, “The little
Tourist,” first chapter of Psalms repeated
by Minnie Burgon, recitation by Ruth and
Naomi Denney, entitled “What two little
twins can do,” song by Rachel and Helen
Smart "The Picnic Party," the Books of the
Bible were repeated.
	Many good and choice remarks were
made by Sisters’ Brady, Burgon, . Ball,
Smart, also Brothers Jones and Anderson
testified to the pleasure they had felt in the
days exercises. The same officers were
voted in and sustained for the coming year.
Meeting adjourned for one year. Benedic-
tion by Master Franklin Denney.
	M. A. Smart, Prest.
	M. A. BALL,
	EMMA BURGON, Counselors.
	RACHEL SMART, Sec.
	ANNIE ANDERSON, Ass't Sec.
	R. SMART, Treasurer.


SLAVERY.

	EVER since the edict, “Cursed be
Canaan a servant of servants shall he be to
his brethren” went forth from the lips of
the Patriarch to his erring son, slavery has
existed in some form and the earth has
groaned under the curse of it. The
Israelites made bond men and bond women
of the sons and daughters of Canaan, and
it almost seemed like retribution, that they
suffered nearly four hundred years the
horrors of such servitude, their taskmasters -
being the descendants of Ham the father of
Canaan.
	Slavery in our own loved country began
almost simultaneously with its discovery.
The brightness of the glory attached to the 
name of the great Columbus is dimmed by
the fact, that he sent five hundred of the
innocent and trusting natives of the Islands
to Spain and sold them as slaves. His
brother Bartholomew sent three hundred.
All of the early Spanish explorers were
guilty of the same awful crime. Likewise
were the French and English. Even on
the shores of New England Thomas Hunt
an officer under Captain John Smith kid-
napped several Indians and sold them into
perpetual slavery. In nearly all of the
Colonies the Indians were held as slaves for
many years after their first settlement.
	Negro slavery commenced in the Colonies
in 1619 when a Dutch Man of War sailed up
the James River in the month of August


[Column 1]
and landed  twenty negroes  on the soil  of
Virginia.   They were  given  in exchange
for food to relieve the  famishing crew.   I
will be interesting to  know  that  the first
cotton seed was planted two years later and
that tobacco was also grown at that time. 
	The institution once planted  was for a 
time of  rather slow  growth.   Only  a few 
cargoes of  negroes were imported for sever-
al years.   In 1624 there were only twenty-
eight slaves in the  colony of  Virginia,  and
in 1648 in a population of 15,000 only 300.
In 1671 they had increased to two thousand 
and in 1758 had reached to  the great num-
ber of  100,000, a little less than that of  the
whites.
	At first only the Dutch ships engaged in
the unholy traffic,  but  soon encouraged by
the English,  companies  were formed and 
ships   built  in   New   England carried 
on  the trade,  the king  himself  sharing in
the profits.
	The colony of  New York  was settled by
the  Dutch  in  1609, and  was called New
Netherlands.   It  is  not  known  precisely
when slavery was introduced  but probably
existed  from  nearly  the beginning  of its
settlement.   Under  their rule  there was 
only a mild form of domestic slavery.  The
blacks were fed and clothed equally as well
as the white  servants,  for the  benevolent
Hollander loved to see all around him hap-
py and comfortable.   It  is  recorded  that
"so light was his servitude that the negroes
sang and danced at Christmas and  Puikster
as  merrily as  though they  were  free."
During  the reign of Queen Elizabeth about
the year 1562 the English government gave
its royal  sanction to the slave trade.   The
Queen  at  first  objected,  but  Sir John 
Hawkins, a slave merchant, persuaded her
by his crafty eloquence, that it was better to
take  the negro from a  bad  country  to a 
good one, and from idolatry to Christianity.
	When the English took possesion  of the
New  Netherlands  in  1664, the  name was
changed to New York, the condition of the
slaves was altered and they  were subjected
to greater  hardships, because  of  the laws 
that were made expressly for them. 
	In the year 1637  the slave ship  Desire
landed a cargo of  negroes in  the colony of
Massachusetts, from that  time slavery con-
tinued and increased  'till 1780.   It  would
be  interesting  to follow  the rise   of this
institution  in  all of  the colonies but  time
will not  permit,  suffice  it  to  say  that  it
existed in them all nearly  from the time of
their first settlements  excepting Georgia 
which was  the  thirteenth and last colony,
and was founded by the British Government.
For  prudential reasons slavery was not per-
mitted until  seventeen  years had  elapsed,
when the long  struggle  against  it  ceased
and slavery was legalized in 1749.
	Among  the  first to  raise his  voice and 
wield the pen  in  favor  of  the  slave  and
against slavery was Samuel Sewall  at one
time Chief Justice of  the Superior Court of
Massachusetts.   He wrote  the first  article
against slavery in  the colony; it was a tract
published  in  1700.     The  Quakers also 
were in favor of abolishing  slavery at that
time, but dared not make their views public 
as they  were under a ban. 
	It is  computed that  300,000 slaves were
imported up to the  time of the Declaration
of  Independence, the whole slave popula-
tion was 501,102.   During the Revolution-
ary War the  negroes  both  bond  and  free
enlisted and helped  to fight the battles that 
resulted in American Independence.
	Rhode  Island, at  the  close of the  war

[Column 2]
presented  the  negro  soldiers  with  their
freedom  and  a  bounty  of fifty  dollars.
Virginia emancipated  her slaves who had
served in the war.   Several other states did
the same. 
	To Massachesetts belongs  the honor of
being the first state to abolish slavery. In 
1780 she formed a  state constitution under
which slavery soon died out. 
	The  last  Continental  Congress on July 
13th,  1787,  passed an act prohibiting slavery
north  east of  the Ohio River.
	The convention that  met in Philadelphia
May 25th, 1787, to  frame the  Constitution
of the United States, after a prolonged de-
bate, inserted the clauses protecting slavery
in the states.   It also  permitted the impor-
tation of slaves  till the year 1808.   Among
the delegates who  strongly  opposed  the
recognition  of slavery  in the  Constitution
were Mr. Madison of  Virginia,  Governor
Morris  of Pennsylvania,  Rufus    King of 
Massachusetts, Luther Martin of  Maryland.
George Washington and Thomas  Jefferson
both  owned  slaves,    but    true    to  their
principles were not  in  favor of  perpetuat-
ing  the  institution.  Washington  at  his
death emancipated  his slaves.   Jefferson's
facile pen  eloquently  pleaded for the free-
dom of  the black.   He wrote,  "The  hour
of emancipation is advancing  in the march
of time.    It will come.   It  is a practice in 
parts  of  Virginia   to   rear slaves  for the 
market.   How can  an honorable  mind,  a
patrot and  a lover  of his country  bear to 
see this ancient  Dominion,  rendered illus-
trious by the noble devotion of her sons in 
the  cause  of liberty,   converted  into  one
grand menagerie,   where  men  are  to  be
raised  for  the  market  like  oxen  for the
shambles.   Is this  better, is  it  not  worse
than the Slave Trade,  that trade which en-
listed the good and the  wise of every creed
and  every clime  to  abolish it?   Indeed, I 
tremble for my country  when I reflect that
God is just, that his justice cannot sleep for-
ever.     The  Almighty    has   no   attribute
which can take sides with us in such a con-
test.   YOU MUST ADOPT SOME PLAN OF
EMANCIPATION OR WORSE WILL FOLLOW."
Patrick Henry,  James Madison  and others
used their  tongues  and pens against  the
inhuman  practice,   but    public  opinion
favored it, and  the voice  of mercy did not
prevail at that time.
    	From   1785-   'til      1790   anti-slavery
agitation  increased,  until  most  of  the
Northern States passed laws  providing for
gradual emancipation.   The  last public 
act  of  the  venerable  Benjamin  Franklin
was to sign a memorial to Congress, urging
its attention to the doing away with slavery
in the states, this was Nov. 19th, 1790.
	In 1799 New  York  State  passed a  law
providing for  the  gradual extinction  of
slavery.   In that year an effort  was made
in Kentucky to accomplish  the same  end.
Henry Clay who was then in the beginning
of  his brilliant career  advocated the move-
ment, but it was a failure.   In the  North
slave labor was unprofitable but in the sunny
South where tobacco, rice  and cotton were
cultivated, the  African  was  at home, and
the labor suited to his nature.   Cotton was
only cultivated in small  quantities because
of  the difficulty  of  separating  the  seed
from the fibre.   In  1792  Eli  Whitney  of
Massachussetts went  to  Georgia  and
invented the cotton gin which made it easy
to take thecotton from the  seed, from that
time cotton growing received a wonderful
impetus.   No  cotton  had  been  exported

[Column 3]
from the United  States in 1792.   In 1793
one million five hundred  thousand pounds
were exported to Europe. 
	In the commencement  of the  session of
1806--7 President Jefferson  in his message
to Congress recommended the abolishing of
the  African slave trade, consequently such
a law was passed prohibiting the importation
of  slaves into the United States or the Ter-
ritory thereof, after Dec. 31st, 1807.
 	In 1820 Maine applied for  admission  to
the  Union.   The number  of states were
equally divided,  eleven  free  and eleven
slave states.   The South  were opposed  to
its admission not being willing that the free
states should have  control  in  the Senate. 
	After a long and  angry discussion it was
admitted.    In   the  same   year Missouri 
wanted  to  come in as  a slave Territory. 
This  was objected   to  by  the Northern
states, finally a measure  was adopted and
became a law called the Missouri  Compro-
mise which provided  that  no slaves be  al-
lowed  excepting   in   Missouri,   north  of
Lat.  36 30. 
	The Quakers still agitated  the subject of
slavery.   They had emancipated all of their
slaves  in   Maryland,    Pennsylvania  and
New Jersey.   At a single monthly meeting
in Pennsylvania eleven hundred slaves were
given their liberty.   Benjamin   Lundy, a 
Quaker who advocated  gradual  emancipa-
tion, established  in  1821  an  anti-slavery
paper;  and  published  it  successively in 
Philadelphia,  Baltimore  and Washington. 
In  Vermont another was  being  published,
edited  by William  Loyd   Garrison   who
afterward became the leader of the Abolition
Party,  and advocated  the  most  extreme
measures to carry out  his purposes.   Wen-
dell Phillips  was  an ardent follower  and
they   both urged  secession  before the 
South.   In 1842 their political war cry was
"No union  with slave holders,"  but  the
two  great  political  parties  who  held the
preponderance of votes  at  that  time,  the
Whigs and Democrats were not so extreme
in their views.
	In 1844 Texas applied for admission into 
the Union as a slave  state.   This was  op-
posed by the  Whigs and  favored  by  the
Democrats and was the great political issue
during the presidential election in that year
James K. Polk and  Henry  Clay being  the
candidates.     At  that    time   the  Prophet
Joseph Smith also  was  nominated  as  a
candidate by his people and  his "views of
the Powers and  the  Policy  of  the United
States Government"  contained  the follow-
ing,  "Were  I  President   of the United 
States, when the people petitioned to abolish
slavery, I would use all honorable means to
have their prayers granted and give liberty
to the  captive,  by  giving  the  southern
gentleman a reasonable  amount  for his
property,  that the whole  nation  might be
free indeed."    Had this humane  and  just
policy been carried  out  by  the  parties in
power, the lives that were  sacrificed in the 
war  of  the  rebellion  would  have  been
saved and not a tithe  of the  money spent.
The   Democrats  elected  their  candidate
James K  Polk, and  in  March  1845 Texas 
was admitted into the Union.   This  led  to
the war with Mexico which resulted in the
acquisition of a vast tract of  Mexican  Ter-
ritory  which was all free  soil;  Mexico hav-
ing freed her slaves twenty years before.
	David Welmot  of  Pennsylvania brought
a  bill before  Congress in  1846  prohibiting
slavery in all the  Territory  that  might be
secured through  the  treaty with  Mexico.
This measure  was  called  the  Welmot


Proviso. It did not become a law, but its
friends formed themselves into a new party
with Ex President Martin VanBuren as their
Presidential candidate in 1848. This was
the beginning of the Free Soil Party and
was composed of seceders from both Whigs
and Democrats and was the foundation of 
the future Republican party. The Demo-
crats nominated Lewis Cass the Whigs
General Zachary Taylor who was elected
by a large majority.
	On the 20th of Dec, 1849, California
asked to be admitted as a free state. This
caused a violent dispute in Congress and
the United States. The slave states oppos-
ing the measure. John C. Calhoun being
one of its most bitter opposers.   Henry 
Clay then in Congress, offered a bill in-
cluding six acts; first was the admission of 
California as a free state; second the for-
mation of new states out of the Territory
of Texas, to permit or exclude slavery as
the people should decide; third the
organization of the Territories of New 
Mexico and Utah without any conditions
in respect to slavery; fourth, the establish-
ment of the present boundary between 
Texas and New Mexico and the payment
to the former for the surrender of the latter,
the sum of ten millions of dollars; fifth, 
the enactment of a more vigorous law for
the recovery of fugitive slaves; sixth, the 
abolition of the slave trade in the District
of Columbia. This Omnibus Bill, as it 
was named, became a law and was called
the compromise of 1850.  This for a time
stilled the troubled waters of Politics. 
	A great influence was exerted in the
North by the anti-slavery literature that
was published at this time Mrs. Harriet
Beecher Stowe's "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"
having by far the widest circulation and the
greatest influence.  It took the heart of
its readers by storm, arousing them to 
indignation, then melting them to sad-
ness by its vivid portrayal of slave life. 
It was translated into twenty different
languages. In 1854 Senator S. A. Douglass
of Illinois introduced the Kansas and 
Nebraska bill into the Senate, which pro-
vided that the constitution of these states
should allow the people to decide for them-
selves, whether the new states should be
free or slaveholding.     The bill became a
law, virtually repealing the compromise of
1820 which was made to settle the slavery
question for all time north of Lat. 36 30.
	This opened the way for a renewal of all 
the bitterness of sectional strife, both
parties rushing into the new states, as fast
as possible to secure a majority of voters,
a civil war ensued and Kansas was the bat-
tle ground.   The agitation spread to all
parts of the United States and in 1856 be-
came the issue upon which the people
divided.  Many Northern Democrats al-
though opposed to slavery, firmly believed
that the people of every Territory ought to 
have the right to decide for themselves,
whether they would have slave Territory or
not. On these issues James Buchanan was
elected, the Northern and Southern
Democrats being in a large majority. 
	Immediately after the inauguration came
the Dred Scott decision. Dred Scott, a
slave had removed with his master to
Illinois and afterwards in 1836 to Minnesota
where he married a negro woman who had
been bought by his master. They had
two children; then the whole family was
brought back to St. Louis and sold. Dred
sued for his freedom. In May 1856 the

[column 2]
case was appealed to the Supreme Court of
the United States, where after three years
delay, a decision was rendered against him;
Chief Justice Taney in speaking before the
court declared that “for more than a cen-
tury before the adoption of the Constitution
a negro whether bond or free had no rights
that a white man was bound to respect.”
This decision and declaration added fuel to
the flames of opposition to slavery in the
North.
	 In October 1859 John Brown an
abolitionist of the most extreme character,
who had removed from Connecticut and
settled in Kansas, made an attempt to incite
an insurrection among the slaves. With a 
party of twenty one men he made an attack
upon the United States Arsenal at Harper's
two days.  The National troops and the 
Militia of Virginia were called out to sup-
press the revolt.  Thirteen of Brown's men
were killed, two escaped and six with John 
Brown were captured, given over to the
authorities of Virginia where they were 
tried, condemned and hung.  All of these
events tended to make matters worse be-
tween the North and South.  The con-
troversy continued in Kansas but the free
soil party increased so fast that it was soon
certain that it would become a free state. 
	The time of holding the 19th,
Presidential election was at hand and in-
tense feeling was aroused in all parts of the 
Union. There were four candidates. The
Republican party nominated Abraham
Lincoln, and in their platform of principles
pledged themselves to “exterminate the
twin relics of barbarism, slavery and
polygamy.”
	The Democratic convention met at 
Charleston, South Carolina.  The delegates
were divided on the question of slavery and
after much debate the Southern delegates
finding that the Northern Democrats were
going to nominate Stephen A. Douglas the
advocate of popular sovereignty they with-
drew and later met and nominated John C.
Breckenridge for President. Mr. Lincoln
was elected. The South claimed that his
election justified them in seceding from the
Union, therefore on the 17th of Dec, 1860,
a convention assembled at Charleston and
after only three days debate a resolution
was passed to that effect. This act pre-
cipitated the war of the Rebellion and led
to the emancipation of nearly four millions
of slaves. 
	*See Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation
proclamation issued on the 22nd of Sept.
1863.   Ridpaths History of U. S. Appendix
G.
	Thus by blood and groans and tears of
anguish, was the Union preserved and the 
dark stain of negro slavery erased from
the face of our fair Republic. 
                                         ANN E. NEAL. 
March 6th, 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	THE Relief Society of Price has been called
upon to part, within the last four years, with four
of our beloved sisters who were faithful to all re-
quirements made of them  in living their
religion, they passed through the trials and
tribulations the saints have been called to pass
through from time to time, departed this life and
with the assurance of a glorious resurrection.
The last one was our beloved Sister Mary Bryner
who died Sep. 1st, 1893 of dropsy at her
daughter’s home, Sister Pauli e Pace of this
place. She left her home in Zurich Switzerland
for the Gospel’s sake, in company with her blind
husband and one child in the year 1856 and as a


mother in Israel has passed through many trying
ordeals; she has left to mourn her loss two sons
and three daughters, her second son is absent on
a mission at the present time to his native country
Switzerland; she also leaves twenty-one living
grandchildren and numerous friends as she was
beloved by all; she was cheerful and calm to the
last and died as she had lived a faithful Latter-
day Saint.
	SARAH G. COX, President.
Price, Sep. 21, 1893.


LADIES’ ATTENTION.
	THE unparallelled success that has at-
tended the use of the “Viavi” Home
treatment by all ladies who have tried it, is
sufficient proof to every unprejudiced mind
that it is one of the greatest discoveries of
the age; and an unqualified boon to suffer-
ing women. Ladies, if you would enjoy
perfect health yourselves and transmit a
healthy and robust vitality to your children,
investigate this remedy, and give it a trial.
You will not be disappointed in results.
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, a physician of
seventeen years practice in Salt Lake City,
endorses the treatment; and will in the
near future, lecture on its merits through-
out the territory. Correspond or make in-
quiry freely. Ladies only in attendance.
Utah Headquarters 176 State St. Room 16.
	MRS. M. C. HOWES, Gen’l. Manager.


R. K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY

The Leading Retail
Cash House

R. K.THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Bnrial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET,
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Instructions upon these subjects; two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.

MAGGIE C. SHIPP, M. D.
	Will commence her next class in
Obstetrics and Nursing about the
middle of October.
Office, 34 East 5th. South,
Telephone 383.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 22. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, AND NOVEMBER 1, 1893.
No. 7


CONTENTS:
	Equal Suffrage—A. L. Cox. Utah W. S. A.—
Nellie Little. U. W. P. Club—Gladys Wood-
mansee. Birthday Party—Mary J. West. Castle
Gate Emery Stake—T. L. Reese. Senorita de
Alcala—Minneapolis. Special Honor. St. John
—E. R. Berry. Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting—
Lydia D. Alder. R. S. Reports. The War of the
Rebellion. "Dausk Koindesamfund." Obitu-
aries.
	EDITORIAL.—General Conference. Relief
Society Conference. Lucy Stone. Editorial
Notes.
	POETRY.—My Fortieth Year—Ruth M. Fox.
Maggie—S. R. E. My Daughter's Birthday—
Mary A. Freeze.


MY FORTIETH YEAR.
MY fortieth year I hail thee with pleasure,
	What gladness or sorrow thou holdest for me
I know not, no matter, I know thou hast treasure
	More precious than pearls from the depths of
 		the sea.
They tell me I am old—my noonday is waning
	I shall soon reach the summit—life will decay;
I joy in the knowledge for surely I’m gaining
	Each year takes me nearer the end of my way

The end! aye the end it comes up before me,
	As a gleam from a light-house beaming afar;
Cling to the raft it cries out I implore thee 
	For the one that holds fast there’s a glorious
		star.
Daily and hourly I toss on the billow  
 	Now hoping,then fearing lest I go adrift,
Surging and clinging forever I struggle,
	That at last I may win the beautiful gift.
 
Welcome thrice welcome then years of my future
	Bring to me what you will joy, sorrow or pain,
Enough that I know that my Father will nurture
	And cause that my sorrows shall not be in vain.
							R.M. Fox.


EQUAL SUFFRAGE.
	
[To the Utah W.'S. A. in Convention
assembled.]
DEAR LADIES:—
	ALTHOUGH we may not be personally ac-
quainted, yet “A fellow feeling makes us
wondrous kind,” and the lofty aims and
unity of purpose pervading the different
Suffrage Associations constitute a bond of
union between the members irrespective of
surrounding conditions.
	While it is quite probable that the present
financial crisis and consequent scarcity of
money will cause a marked decrease in the
membership roll, yet the faith in the gospel
of Equal Rights still exists, and will only
need the impetus of a special emergency
to call it into active vigorous life.
	At least  that is the status of the Manti
branch which I have the honor to represent
in the absence of a verbal report.
	Although we have an enrolled member-
ship of about two hundred, yet the num-
ber of active workers is comparatively
small consisting principally of widows
whose legal experience in the administra-
tion of their deceased husband’s estates has
opened their eyes to the unjust discrimina-
tion of laws which women have no voice in
making, as well as the manifest unfairness
of taxation without representation.
	The Suffrage Association has developed
much latent talent among the members.
We have debates, lectures on topics of
general, interest, biographical sketches of
noted men and women of ancient and
modern times, also discussions on the
silver question, Home Rule in Ireland, and
in fact almost everything of mutual interest
except partisan issues which would have a
tendency to breed discord in our association,
as some of our ladies are very pronounced
adherents of the two great political parties,
so by mutual consent we have left these
questions out of our discussions and de-
bates, and as a consequence we have en-
joyed the utmost harmony and good feeling
in our meetings.
	We have adopted Mrs. Shattuck’s
Manual of Parliamentary Law as our
standard and quite a number of copies of
the work are owned by the members.
Gentlemen frequently ask me questions in
relation to the politics of the Suffrage As-
sociation, and I invariably reply that we
are neither Republicans or Democrats as an 
organization, but that we are for Equal
Suffrage first, last and all the time and that
so long as our legal recognition ends with
the payment of our taxes and the penalties
of broken laws we do not choose to declare
our allegiance to any political party, but
when our vested rights are restored to us,
that our votes will always be counted on
the side of good  government and popular
liberty without license.
	While there is a good deal of Suffrage
Sentiment ‘‘lying around loose” in the local
organizations throughout the County, with
one or two exceptions they have languished
for the want of a presiding officer, who has
the courage of her convictions to brave the

[Column 2]
ridicule and opposition which is still to be
met to some extent, but in a much less de-
gree than formerly, and who also combine
with this quality energy, perseverance, and
the capacity to do an unlimited amount of
hard work, as a special qualification.
	It is true that the way has been long and
weary and its ending almost out of sight,
but the dawn is slowly but surely breaking,
and the mists of prejudice and error are
being rolled back by a master hand, because
it is manifestly among the purposes of the
Creator that his daughters shall be equally
free with his sons.
	It requires no prophetic eye to see that
the victors laurel will in the near future
crown the grey hairs of the veteran leaders
of the cause who have borne the burden of
scorn and opposition which was the only
reward of the early suffragists; and now
that their earthly pilgrimage is nearly
finished Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B.
Anthony, Lucy Stone and other pioneer
workers are receiving the honor and
recognition to which they are justly entitled;
and a host of younger women are following
in their footsteps. This year of grace has
been a revelation of the powers and pos-
sibilities of women.
	The Columbian Exposition has developed
phenomenal traits of character requiring
tact, skill and executive ability. We find
woman occupying the front rank in
education, oratory, art and medicine. We
also find her laboring zealously as a reform-
er but under existing conditions she is al-
ways handicapped by her lack of the ballot
to enforce her righteous demands. In
proof of this when a petition signed by
eighty thousand citizens of Chicago, was
presented to Mayor Harrison asking him to
prohibit the sale of intoxicants in the Fair
Grounds he was very particular to inquire
how many of the petitioners were voters.
Municipal Suffrage in several cities gives
women greater power to combat existing
evils than ever before; and that their power
in this direction is understood and appreci-
ated is abundantly manifested by the
resolutions adopted last summer by the
Brewers Convention in Chicago, and recent-
ly by the Michigan Liquor Dealers Associa-
tion in Milwaukee to the effect, that they
were now and always unutterably opposed
to woman’s suffrage, that it would strike
a death blow to their interests, etc.
	Our respectable opponents would do
well to investigate, and see what company
they keep in their attitude of hostility to
the suffrage cause. The enfranchised,
virtuous womanhood of our land will be a
constant menace to the evil doer, and when
the more moral half of the population can
express its condemnation of legalized vice
at the ballot box the millennium will be
very near. The gains for the cause dur-
ing the past year have been unprecedented.
Women have demonstrated their capabilities
as political speakers by holding vast
audiences spell bound by their matchless
eloquence,while dealing with themes which
were formerly considered to be far beyond
the range of their comprehension. But the
world moves and the struggle in Colorado


and Kansas for constitutional amendments
to enfranchise the women of those states,
will be watched with interest by all friends
of Equal Rights, for a victory for them will
have more than local significance, the
cause is surely marching onward to success
in spite of indifference and opposition.
	In conclusion I wonld say, that although
circumstances prevent me from meeting
with you on this occasion, yet I am with
you heart and soul for the good work, and
have never for a moment lost faith in the
result. We have many difficulties to meet
and obstacles to overcome which you do
not have and foremost among them is the
lack of funds. The membership fee has in
many instances been literally the widow’s
mite only obtained by self-denial and the
sacrifice of personal comfort, while many
who have abundant means also “have all
the rights they want.’’ We cannot afford
to stop now with the goal almost in sight
but eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,
and we who have accepted the new gospel
of Equal Rights, must labor with untiring
zeal for the redemption of the masses.
Indifference is a far greater foe to the cause
than opposition, but both will melt away
like snow before a summer sun in the
dawning light of the twentieth century.
	Yours for Equality before the Law.
Oct. 3, 1893.	A. L. Cox,
President Sanpete Co. W. S. A.


MAGGIE.
THERE is no flock however watched and tended
	But one dead lamb is there,
There is no fireside how so’e’er defended
	But has one vacant chair.”

Gone from our household to realms of gladness
	Gone to that beautiful shore
Leaving our hearts bowed down in their sadness,
	Because we see thee no more.

Lovely companion, dear gentle sister,
	Father has freed her from pain;
We who are left O, sadly we miss her,
	Yearn for her presence again.

Her sojourn was brief, her mission is finished
	In a land far brighter than this,
With those gone before her joy’s undimished,
	Her cup’s o’er flowing with bliss. 

Departed from earth and all of its bitter,
	Where mind finds constant expansion,
A brief span was all needed to fit her
	To grace God’s high, holy mansion. 

Yet there is left the light of her presence,
	To illumine life’s darkest nights,
Her memory arising as incense
	Imparting ecstatic delights.

As the perfume of roses still lingers,
	As echoes of musical strains,
Like the touch of soft loving fingers,
	Maggie’s sweet presence remains.	S. R..E.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


UTAH W. S. A.
	AT an executive session of the Territorial
W. S. A. of Utah held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall Oct. 5, 1893, the following
officers were placed in nomination and
elected.
	Emmeline B. Wells, President, Emily S.
Richards, 1st Vice President, Julia P. M.
Farnsworth, 2nd Vice President, Caroline
E. Dye, 3rd Vice President, Nellie Little,
Rec. Secretary, Augusta W. Grant, Cor.
Secretary,Ruth M. Fox, Treasurer. Phoebe
Y. Beatie, Chairman executive committee,
Elizabeth McCune, Margaret A. Caine, Ro-
mania B. Pratt, M. Hughes Cannon, Emma
Empey members.
	May Wells, Chairman Pub. Com. Lula
Greene Richards and Annette Culmer
members. Eliza A. Bennion and Susie W.
Bennion, Auditing committee.
	The reports of the secretary and treasurer
were read and accepted. Salt Lake, Weber
and Box Elder Counties were represented
by their delegates, respectively, President
Nellie C. Taylor, Salt Lake, Elizabeth R.
Stanford, Weber, and Alvira Reese, Box
Elder.
	The Semi Annual Convention of the
Territorial W. S. A. was held at the same
place at 2 p. m. Prayer by Mrs. Adeline
H.Barber, Logan. Singing from the Suffrage
Song Book. The officers elected at the morn-
ing session were sustained by the Convention.
Telegram from the World’s Fair Grounds.
“Accept greeting equal suffrage is rapidly
gaining ground and the right will prevail.
signed Emily S. Richards Electa Bullock”
On motion of Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball was made honorary president
of the Utah W. S. A. for-life.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball the retiring
President made some remarks concerning
suffrage work in the Territory, manifesting
her deep interest in a matter of such vital
importance to all women.
	Hon, Charles W. Penrose in an able


address made many strong points in favor
of woman suffrage.
	This was followed by a well written
paper on the same subject by Mrs. Julia P.
M. Farnsworth. Mrs. E. B. Wells read an
article written for the convention by Mrs.
A. L. Cox, President of W. S. A. for
Sanpete County and made some remarks
concerning the National organization, and
the condition of women in general and
especially Utah women.
	Meeting adjourned to the call of the
President.
	NELLIE LITTLE, Rec. Sec.


U. W.  P. CLUB.
	THIS interesting organization met as per
ajournment, at the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
Office, September 30th, 1893, Mrs. E. B.
Wells in the chair. Prayer was offered by
Mrs. Ruth M. Fox. Minutes of the August
meeting were read and the roll call was re-
sponded to by a goodly number of mem-
bers.
	The programe consisted of selections
from favorite male authors.
	Miss Patterson gave a selection from
Matthew Arnold. Mrs. R. M. FOX,
Byron’s “Farewell to His Wife.”
	Mary Freeze “Life’s Lesson.” from the
pen of our local poet O. F. Whitney.
	Mrs. Bassett sang in her usually pleasing
manner, the ballad, “In Sunny Spain.”
	"The Rainy Day,’’ from Longfellow was
read by Miss G. Woodmansee followed by
Mrs. Lydia Alder who chose “What is
Life,” from Whitney’s Works.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp chose “Morituri
Salutamus” from Longfellow an address to
his class mates, stating its being a poem
which had greatly influenced her life.
	Whittier’s “Question of Life,” was given
by Dr. R. B. Pratt. Mrs. E. W. Hyde, a
selection from O. F. Whitney, entitled
"Truth.” This part of the program was
completed by the reading of “Byron’s
Dream,” by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	Mrs. Bassett then favored the club with
another musical selection which was much
enjoyed.
	The program for October to consist of
papers and verbal descriptions of the
mystical rites of Halloween, and the
Annual election of officers for the ensuing
year, to be elected by ballot.
	Refreshments were served interspersed
with the usual pleasant chat, and at a
reasonable hour the club ajourned.
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
Editor Exponent:
	ON the afternoon of Sept. 19th 1893, a
party composed of relatives and friends,
met at the beautiful residence of Mrs.
Charles L. Flake in Snowflake, Arizona, to
pay honor to the natal day of dear Grand-
ma Hunt.
	She was born in Lexicon Co, Kentucky
Sept. 19th 1805, making her 88 years of
age.
	We found her hale and hearty filled to
overflowing with the spirit of the gospel;
she gave us such a hearty welcome that we
said in our hearts ’tis good to honor the
aged.
	After dinner the party repaired to the
parlor where she related to us many inci-
dents that had transpired in her eventful


life, while traveling with the Battalion and
in the early days of Utah. She possesses
a wonderful memory, is full of faith, in all
her life she has taken no medicine, when-
ever sickness overtakes her, she follows the
law given in the ‘‘Book of Covenants,’’ her
life and age are a proof to us, that blessed
are those who believe and rely upon the
Lord.
	She testified to us that she knew that
Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young were
women of God, they had blessed her and
their promises had been verified. She re-
joices that in all her life her substance has
not been witheld but has been freely given
or a portion of it for the establishing of our
Father’s kingdom; she has spent a number
of years, in California visiting her three
daughters there.
	She has left her testimony with many
there who would perhaps not have heard
the sound of the gospel only through her.
	The music rendered by Mrs. Nellie
C. Hunt was most beautiful. Some
lines composed for the occasion by her
granddaughter Mrs. Annie Hunt Kertchner
were read and brought tears to grandma’s
eyes.
	As we gazed at the tall erect form of her
who had lived so long, we were led to con-
clude that all of the severe trials of mor-
tal life have failed to make her bow to
them, neither have they caused the brain to
weaken, she hath proven herself stronger
than all.	MARY J. WEST.


CASTLE GATE EMERY STAKE. 
Editor Exponent:
	THE Bishopric of Castle Gate Ward
organized the Relief Society on Sunday
Sept. 24, 1893, there were present of the
Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
Sisters A. U. Larsen and Ann Pulsipher.
The following sisters were set apart to act
as officers.
	Sebelia Evans, Prest. Jane Cox and
Elizabeth Young, Counselors, Lucy Reese,
Sec. Annie Kimber, Treas.
	Remarks were made by Sisters Larsen
and Pulsipher showing the duties of officers
and detailing their work, so that by follow-
ing out the instruction given all would go
hand in hand to do good and build up the
Kingdom of God.
	The Primary Association was also or-
ganized on the same day, there were present
of the Stake Presidency of the Primary
Association, Sisters Mary A. Washburn and
M. Howard, the following sisters were set
apart to fill the necessary offices.
	Annie Kimber, Prest. M. R. Cox and
Catharine Goold, Counselors, Elizabeth
Young, Sec. H. I. Cox, Treas.
	Remarks were made by Sisters Wash-
burn, Howard, Pulsipher and Larsen, en-
couraging all to attend, and see that the
children were sent regularly to Primary
that their young minds could be improved
with the principles of the Gospel.
	The remarks of the Sisters in general
were full of good instruction timely and
edifying. Bishop Lamph concluded the
meeting by invoking the blessing of God to
be upon the organizations and upon the
officers.
	T. L. REESE, Clerk Pro. Tem.


WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE is a reality in New
Zealand, “for women both of European and
Maori race. ”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MY DAUGHTER'S BIRTHDAY.

SAY, where is my little baby
	Of twenty years ago!
My beautiful, brown-eyed darling
	All dimples from top to toe,
Many long years, I’ve nursed her
	And others have filled her place, 
But, still on my memory graven
	Is that lovely, baby face.
Her smile was like an angel’s, 
	Thrilling my soul with love,
While the halo sweet encircling her,
	Was pure, from her home above,
Her little feet so merrily
	Would dance to tune and time,
While we all gazed in rapture
	On our baby so sublime.
Her eyes! what pen could describe them?
	So lustrous, so bright and clear,
’Twas heaven to look within them
	And her cooing voice to hear.
Ah, dear to our hearts was our cherub,
	She seemed like an angel guest,
Who had wandered from realms of glory
	So we felt divinely blest.
But this little winsome creature
	Slipped out of my arms, away;
From infant to merry childhood,
Developing day by day, 
Then up to charming woman-hood
With its witching, mystic spell,
’Till now, she’s a wife, this baby 
That I fondled and loved so well.
	MARY A. FREEZE.


SENORITA de ALCALA.

	AT our state University a new chair
has been created this year it is that of 
Spanish and Italian Languages. The first
person to fill this office is Senorita de
Alcala (with the accent on the last syllable)
a woman with a most remarkable and varied
career. The present craze for studying
Spanish is the result of the Pan-American
congress and reciprocity movement. This
new Pro-ance sat as a student in nearly the
same spot where she now holds forth to
large and earnest classes composed of Post
graduates largely and many college profes-
sors. There is a belief, that the senorita is
of noble Spanish lineage, but it is not cer-
tain what her father’s rank was. Senor
Louis de Alcala was her father, a general
under Don Carlos, her mother Mariede
Molina born in Granada. The child was
born in Madrid and much of her childhood
was spent in Granada and Arvela. The
mother died when the child was seven
years old, shortly afterward little Caddino
began her wanderings under the protection
of her guardian. Alphonzo displaced Don
Carlos and for fourteen years the family
were in exile. The father fell in the
war and the daughter came to America
with her guardian, but in New York the
guardian died and Senorita was placed in a
convent, after studying there for a short time,
she went to Ohio, after a short stay she
came to Minnesota and entered the state
University, after some years of study she
returned to Europe and pursued her studies
in the University of Berlin and Bonn on
the Rhine and took public examinations
with the men, a thing no other Spanish
woman has ever done; she studied French
at Paris also Bellesletters teaching at
the same time many private pupils, she
became a finished classical student and mis-


tress of French, German, English and
Italian.
	It was at this time she was called to the
court of King Kalakua of Hawaiian Islands
to be the instructor of Princess Kaiulaui
the daughter of the King’s sister,she lived
in the palace and enjoyed for some time that
most delightful climate; after the death of
the princess’s mother Senorita Alcala went
to Central America and started a private
school in Guatemala. In personal appear-
ance she is rather petite her eyes are large
dark and eloquent, hair purplish black,com-
plexion olive. She speaks with a most
fascinating accent, she is cosmopolitan in
thought, she perfers to live in Venice of all
places, after that in Bonn on the Rhine.
	She thinks America the place for women
to live in who desire a higher education
and freedom of progress, she says that
English women are not superior to American
women on the contrary they are behind
them in general culture and emancipation,
she talks most entertainingly of the customs
for women in different countries and it
makes the listener glad and proud that she
lives in free America.
Minneapolis.


SPECIAL HONORS.
	MRS. FRACKLETON, President of the
National League of Mineral Painters, who
organized the Salt Lake City China Club
some ten years ago is receiving great honors
at the Exposition. She may well be con-
gratulated at the disposition made of her
pieces.
	The “Viking Brotherhood Cup” which
she modelled from native clays goes to
Norway, the property of Captain Anderson
of the Viking Ship. This is a most
unique and interesting piece and is like
those used by the old Vikings a thousand
years ago. It is tall and delicate in form
with a mouth suggesting the beak of a ves-
sel and the foot pinched at the back into the
form of a rudder. The handle is a coiled
snake, emblem of eternity. About the
top is a band incised in the old Norse runes
with the names of gods and heroes. Lower
runs the legend,
		“Slaves cannot drink from me,
			if once their lips receive my wine, 
		That moment they are free!
			They drink gods bounty,
			And their shackles fall!”
	On the obverse side are the dates of the
old Norse discoveries—893 and—1893!
	It was the old custom before commencing
any great undertaking to have a banquet
and pass the cup front lip to lip, like a
sacramental cup then in consecration to
break it.
	The cup was used by Captain Anderson
and his crew at the great Norse banquet
and will return with him a treasured
souvenir of his warm welcome to Norway.
	The great wine bowl which Mrs. Frackleton
made for the Caravel is already on its way
to Spain and will be placed in the
National Military Museum at Madrid in
company with the old Columbian relics.
	It is an immense bowl with great bunches
of grapes and garlands of vine and is sup-
ported upon a standard with three feet.
On it is inscribed the names of the three
vessels of the little fleet. The Nina, Pinta
and Santa Maria also the dates 1492 and
1893.
	One piece remains in America and has
been purchased by the Pennsylvania


Museum of fine arts for their magnificant
collection these pieces are all of the New
Frackleton Salt Glaze which has created
such a furore and has been heartily en-
dorsed by the ‘‘Associated Artists” of New
York City.
	The beautiful Punch bowl known as the
“Tiffany bowl” has been purchased by a
Russian noble for $500.00 and goes to St.
Petersburgh Russia.
	It is delightful to experience a feeling of
reciprocity and we hail the dawn of that
era in art when American women decorate
for the nobility of Europe—after the many
years that Europeans have decorated their
wares for America.


ST. JOHN.
	IN reading our interesting little paper the
EXPONENT we often see the reports from
other places but seldom anything from St.
John’s, Arizona and as our Relief Society
was reorganized on the 4th of March, we
thought it proper to report the same.
Sister Lucinda Richey was our esteemed
president for. thirteen years but being in
poor health and advanced in years felt it
too great a responsibility and therefore
tendered her resignation. She was loved
for her kind and loving manner and
motherly counsel. Her life has been one of
usefulness having raised a large family
living mostly on the frontier, and passing
through many trials incident to such a
life. The following were chosen officers
Anna D. Kempe President, Claudina Jen-
sen and Elizabeth N. Gibbons, Counselors
R. E. Berry Secretary, Christina Johnson
Asst. Sec. Hannah Jensen Treasurer,
Anna L. Anderson Ass’t. Our meetings
are held regularly and fairly well attended.
We hold meetings every other Thursday
our testimony meetings on fast days. We
have fifty four members own real estate
worth $2,740. also $109.60 in property and
$350 cash.
	The people here are feeling much en-
couraged this year as we have been blessed
with rains and the gardens and young
orchards look thrifty as does also the fields
where crops were planted. Some did not
plant as we have suffered greatly from
drouth and grasshoppers the past three
years but we have neither to complain of
this year.	E. R. BERRY, Sec.


“THERE is something appalling in the
revelations of the census; the condition of
the marriage relation alone would preclude
happiness. Think of from forty to fifty
thousand immoral women in New York
patronized by five times that number of
men; think of 328,716 divorces in twenty
years! The hundreds of thousands of
homes ruined by drink, with 82,392 crimi-
nals in prison, and an annual production of
homicides amounting to 7, 386. Besides
73,045 paupers in almshouses and a million
tramps, vagabonds and pensioners of all
sorts scattered far and wide. One of the
most serious signs of decay is found in the
increase of insanity. Years ago it was
found that society was “dying at the top,”
and it was computed that one in 250 of the
population were insane, but now the num-
ber has been put at one in 127. New York
City today has one in 300 in her asylums,
and the city is full of persons of unsound
mind, rendering it probable that the esti-
mate of one in 127 in the country at large
is correct.”—Dr. De Costa.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, -  . - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 15, and NOV. 1, 1893.


GENERAL CONFERENCE.
	THE semi-annual Conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints held in October, 1893, commencing
October 6th, and closing on Sunday
October 8th, was really a spiritual feast to
all those who attended and listened to the
magnificent discourses of the First
Presidency and Apostles, in which they set
forth the divine principles of the Gospel,
and urged upon the Saints to lay hold of the
same in the spirit thereof, and to seek by
purity of life and honesty of purpose to
keep and retain the spirit of God, which
would be a guide to their feet and a light
to their path continually.
	Much definite practical instruction was
also given suited to the present time and
circumstances of the people, particularly
upon home industries and manufactures,
and the education, the moral and spiritual
training of the youth of Zion; wise and
judicious counsel to all who have charge of
the young people, and in fact upon all sub-
jects that pertain to the duties of life here
or salvation hereafter.
	The weather was fine, and the people
were delighted to see in the stand day
after day the venerated President of the
Church, and to hear his voice strong and
distinct proclaiming the truths of the Gos-
pel, beseeching and exhorting the people to
serve God and keep his commandments.
Many of the Saints remarked that they had
never attended a better Conference, or one
where more of the Spirit of God was 
poured out upon the speakers.
	Some of the Apostles and also President 
George Q. Cannon referred particularly to
those countries where the Gospel had not
yet been preached, and the great work the
Elders of the Church as missionaries to
the nations of the earth yet have to per-
form. The music and the singing by the
choir were of the most elevating character
and with the inspirational teaching lifted
the soul upward with renewed determina-
tion to labor for the welfare of Zion, her
interests at home and abroad.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Semi-annual Conference of
the Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall Monday Oct. 9th, 1893,
President Zina D. H. Young presiding.
On the stand near her Counselor Bathsheba
W. Smith,also M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, E.B. Wells, R. B. Pratt, Minerva

[Column 2]
W. Snow and many Presidents of the
Relief Society of the several stakes of
Zion. Meeting opened with singing, “Come
let us anew,” &c. prayer was offered by
Dr. Elvira S. Barney, singing, “For the
strength of the hills we bless thee.”
	President Z. D. H. Young made opening
remarks welcoming all to the Conference
in an affectionate manner. The secretary
read the minutes and called the roll of
Presidents,nineteen Stakes were represented
viz. Salt Lake, Davis, Weber, Box Elder,
Morgan. Summit, Cache, Utah. Juab, San-
pete, Millard, Wayne, St. George, Emery,
Bear Lake, Malad, Star Valley, St. Joseph
and Mexico.
	Sister Young spoke forcibly upon the
care of the sick and needy which was the
first duty to be attended to; and exercise of
charity and love, which would make us
more like our Savior, who had abundant
charity, and went about doing good, we
should aim to attain perfection and put
away all evil thoughts and feelings, that
we may be prepared to perform labors for
the salvation of the living and the redemp-
tion of the dead, prayed that we might be
faithful to observe every law and com-
mandment and ever set an example worthy
of imitation.
	Sister Sarah Barton said Star Valley was
organized Nov. 30, 1892, and there were
seven branches, the settlements were all
new but the sisters were anxious to do all
in their power, the presiding sisters had
visited, Sister Dixon, the President was an
able and energetic woman.
	Sister Willmirth East, President St.
Joseph Stake returned thanks to her
Heavenly Father that she was able to be
present, had been very ill; she was not as
well posted now concerning the circum-
stances of the Relief Society; as she had
been in Salt Take since last April; but felt
determined to labor in the office and calling
to which she had been appointed, realized
it was the duty of the sisters to be at their
post, bore testimony to the truth of the
Gospel, and referred to President Young’s
teachings on the subject of home-industries,
and how much better off we would be to-
day had we heeded his counsel; thought too
much attention was paid to frivolity and
fashion and accomplishments, instead of
housekeeping and the everyday duties of
home; she knew marriage was in many
instances postponed because an elaborate
establishment could not be kept up;
deprecated the idea of too much luxury,and
thought we should economize and live
within our means.
	Sister Mary B. Eyring from Juarez,
Mexico, was thankful to be here to mingle
her voice with the congregation, glad to see
so many engaged in the good work, thought
the Relief Society branches in Mexico
would compare favorably with those in
Utah; they had not many calls for help,
very few were without means to help them-
selves, though there had been some sickness,
and the sisters then had given liberally of
time and help; there were only a few
Mexicans in the Church, there were some
who could talk Spanish, these were as clean
as white people, the sisters had made a few
quilts; when visiting round had found some
not very comfortable. “In these corners
where there are only a few congregated to-
gether, they are bright, quick and intel-
lectual anxious to do their duty; the Saints
had experienced miraculous instances of
the power of God; generally good health
until this last summer had malarial fever,

[Column 3]
there had not been as much suffering in set-
tling there as in many other places; always
have corn and beans, that is what the
country affords, we have good order in all 
our settlements; our Mexican neighbors
come into our colony and wonder, we have
good gardens and orchards and houses, the
authorities of Casas Grande say our people
have been very profitable; we are far ahead
of the Mexicans in prosperity and thrift,
our people import new wagons and farming
machinery;’’spoke of the Mexican ladies and
their servants and other interesting things.
	Sister Jane S. Coleman, President Wayne
Stake, thought we should not only be 
listeners in these meetings, but practice in
our lives the counsel given: the Wayne
Stake was organized the 27th and 28th, of
May 1893, there were now ten branches,
“at our last Conference our President Sister
Young said there would be more love, union
and charity among the sisters, and it cer-
tainly has been verified. Four of the
branches in our Stake have granaries, we
have had hard times out our way, only one
settlement where the grain ripened;” ex-
plained in regard to the grain that had been
stored, thought the President of the
society should always lead out in good
works.
	The President Mrs. Young hoped the
sisters would take cognizance of the advice
that had been given concerning the grain,
President Woodruff had said the last week
that he had no right to this wheat, unless he
gave security, she felt glad for those who
had granaries, and ashamed that there were
so few comparatively, urged the sisters to
take care of the needy, feed them and care for
them in other ways, let none suffer but try
and give them something to do, those who
are able to work, it is a much better way;
she knew how to take wool, tow and flax,
and work it up; encourage home work,
knit your own stockings and help to be
self-sustaining; made some suggestions
about putting lime among the wheat to pre-
serve it from insects.
	Sister Julia Lindsey, Bear Lake Stake re-
ported all the branches in good condition
spiritually, and faithful in temporal labors,
it was a hard country, very cold in winter;
and the settlements extended so far it was
not possible to accomplish much in winter,
was glad to come to these conferences and
get instructed in her duties; bore a good
testimony felt thankful she was one with
the Saints.
	Bishop H. B. Clawson gave notice of a
lecture on Music and Morals to be given in
the Assembly Hall that evening by the
Rev. A. Howiss of London who was on a
visit to America, had just been to San
Francisco and on his way back from the coast
would like to deliver a lecture in our city.
Sister Martha G. Young who had just
visited in Emery County gave a few items
from there, as there was no representative
present from that Stake.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. sing-
ing “Praise God from whom all blessings
flow,” &c, benediction Dr. R. B. Pratt.


LUCY STONE.

    THE death of Lucy Stone, Editor in chief
of  the Woman's Journal,  Boston, on the
18th, of October 1893, removes from active
service in  the  cause  of  woman's  enfran-
chisement  and  advancement one   of   the
most  remarkable veteran  women  of  the
nineteenth century. This grand and


noble woman whose loss is so great, but
whose life was so brimming over full of
good works, was born in West Brookfield
Mass. August 13, 1818. She had lived
three quarters of a century and over, and
had seen many wonderful changes in the
cause she loved so well and had served so
faithfully, and zealously; but the climax to
which she looked forward with fond and
hopeful anticipation, had not yet been at-
tained, though its dawn is already lighting
the hill tops with the rainbow of hope, and
the faith that lays hold upon the future
was strong in the breast of one of its most
eloquent and powerful champions, Lucy
Stone; and the news from the far-off
island of the sea (New Zealand) of the
victory of equal suffrage won there, came
like glad tidings to cheer and brighten her
hopes ere her departure to the higher life
beyond. She leaves a husband and
daughter to carry on the work for which
she laid so magnificent a foundation, and
many hundreds of earnest adherents to the
cause she so vigorously espoused, converted
by her magnetic eloquence, who will seek
to emulate her earnestness of purpose, and
to fulfill her ardent longings and expecta-
tions. Hereafter we will give a sketch of
this heroine of the nineteenth century whose
memory will be forever green in the hearts
of true patriots and lovers of liberty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society Conference minutes
will be concluded in the next number of the
paper, and the story ‘‘IN Rural England’’
continued. We have much matter laid
over, the minutes of several Conferences in
different places, organizations and re-
organizations of branches of the Relief
Society and meetings in different localities,
all these will be given as soon as con-
venient.
	OUR readers will be delighted to know
that Utah has taken three medals for her
silk exhibit, and it is ardently hoped by the
patrons of home industries here that this
success will give an impetus to sericulture,
and that another season will show some
good results in this direction in all parts of
the country where there are mulberry
orchards, and that the people will not be
slow in planting out mulberry trees, and
trying to make this industry remunerative.
	THE Chicago tragedy resulting in the
death of Mayor Harrison has cast a gloom
not only over the closing of the Fair, but
the whole city; all anticipated festivities are
postponed temporarily if not permanently.
After the wonderful brilliant pageantries of
the world that have been enjoyed by the
people during the Exposition, that all
should close with a pageantry of sorrow and
woe seems almost unaccountable, but such
things prove how uncertain are all the
calculations made by men; that there is a
spirit of destruction abroad in the world
seems a foregone conclusion.
	Zious Home Monthly edited by Henry
W. Naisbitt after some months delay, makes
its appearance again in a new dress with
very creditable outside cover, illustrative of
its aims and contents No. 1 volume 2 was
issued October 1, 1893, and contains much
excellent reading matter suited to the times
and circumstances. The special article of
the issue is “Woman’s Education in a New
Light,” from the pen of one of the ablest
writers and educators of his time Horace

[Column 2]
Mann. A number of fine poems help to
make the magazine more desirable, and cer-
tainly home literature should be sustained,
as well as home industries and other home
manufactures. Success to the enterprise.
	OUR readers will be pleased to know that
one of our most esteemed poets and faith-
ful contributors Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron
has had an addition to her family: a
beautiful little grand-daughter, born to her
daughter Zina E. wife of Sylvester Walker
of South Bountiful, Davis Co. on October
7, 1893, the first-grandchild, and of course
there is great rejoicing, in the family, and
the EXPONENT extends most sincere con-
gratulations to the parents,  and grand-
parents of the little one, who is we believe
to be named Caroline in honor of the moth-
er’s sister and it was also the name of the
great-grandmother Caroline Jackson of St.
George, who was so well known among our
people for her good works and labors of
love. 
	WEDNESDAY Oct. 4th, there was a very
interesting Art Exhibit at the studio of Miss
Kate Wells in the McCornick Building in
this City, by our home artists, Messrs
Clawson, Harwood, Culmer and Lenzi, also
Mesdames Harwood, Carson, Sloan, Camp-
bell and Miss Hartwell. The original
painting of the picture by J. W. Clawson
exhibited at the World’s Fair, “Santa
Maria della Salute,” Venice, was among
the collection at Miss Wells studio, the
picture is very fine and the people would be
well repaid in visiting the studio on such
rare occasions. Miss Wells expects to
have another art exhibit on Dec. 1st, at
which time she will be glad to see all lovers
of art come and view the collection, which
will be enjoyable and educational so far,
even if one cannot afford to buy. Other
artists are expected to be represented at that
time. Miss Wells is very painstaking in
her own line of work, coloring photos, and
takes delight in explaining the pictures ex-
hibited to visitors.


RELIEF SOCIETY.

	PRESIDENTS and Secretaries of the sev-
eral Stakes of Zion are requested hereafter
to send Statistical and Financial yearly re-
ports to Secretary Emmeline B. Wells,
EXPONENT Office, Salt Lake City,and brief
historical items relating to Relief Society
work, or workers should be sent to Sarah
M. Kimball recording Secretary, 74 S. 2nd,
West St. Salt Lake City. Further
particulars concerning these reports will be
given later.
		ZINA D. H. YOUNG, President.
		SARAH M. KIMBALL, Rec. Sec.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the  Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th,  Ward Assembly Rooms,
Sep. 9th, 1893.
    President M.  Isabella Horne presiding.
Singing, “O, my  Father, thou   that
dwellest,” prayer  by  Counselor  E.  J.
Stevenson.     After   singing   again  the
minutes  of the  previous  meeting  were
read and approved.
    No response to  President  Horne's call
for   minutes   from  any   of   the  Young
Ladies or Primary Associations.
    Sister E. S. Taylor President  V.  L.  M.

[Column 2]
I.  A. said she desired the  faith and prayers
of the sisters  to  enlighten  her   mind  and
rest on us all. “Often the speaker is more
blest than those who  hear.  A  few sisters
meet here,  semi-monthly,  but how small
the number!    If  they   were  anxious  to
speak  good  of God,  and  his kindness to
them, quite as anxious as to devote days to
recreation, there  would  be so many more
here.   But God's children  are  not  alike.
Some are more diligent,  some  are  more
earnest, some are more faithful than others.
When the time comes, and Christ comes to 
number up his jewels,  all the faithful ones
will be there.   The accounts of destruction,
misery and death that we read in the papers
are terrible!   Do we pause and think?  Did
not God say He would pour out his indig-
nation on the inhabitants of the  earth, for
they did not receive his gospel, neither his
prophets.   Let  us  here in  Zion,  look  to
ourselves, serve God and be  prayerful, ask
God for aid when we are cast down,  we can
go to Him and  He will send  the spirit  of
love and peace to us.   Then when we have
finished  our  work,  he   will  take  us  to
dwell with Him.” Sister Mary E. Kimball
and Sister E. A. Watmough  each  bore  a
faithful testimony to the truth  of the  Gos-
pel, and their desires to be ever  found true
to the same.
	Sister L. Greene Richards spoke of some
of the exercises she had  witnessed  at  the
Summer School held  at  Provo, also  of a
dream she had of  her  father, after  he had
gone from this life; thought we should study
and go to school  in the next life,  and  go
on  learning forever.
	A sister in the congregation spoke well,
and exhorted the sisters not to judge each
other.  Thought we should feel  for  each
other, both the rich and the  poor, and pre-
pare for the coming of the Savior said many
other good things.  Sister Mary Leach and
Bird each bore faithful testimonies.  Sister
M. V. Dougal, testified  that  the  spirit of
God was in the meeting, gave  many good
instructions, and exhorted the sisters to be
humble,   to   think  of the   Savior  who
descended below all things  that  he might
rise above all things, &c.
   Sister  C.   C.   R.   Wells,   spoke  very
encouragingly, regretted that she could not
attend these meetingsoftener; felt comforted
in the testimonies borne here today.   Said
she believed we would go  on  in study and
labor after we went from  here.  The spirit
will reveal the truth to us, “I feel  that we
should sustain each  other,  sustain home
industries and seek to build up the kingdom
temporally; as sisters we should branch out
in manufactures and not buy articles from a-
broad; spoke of the Woman's Co-op store,
urged the sisters to sustain it. Said their
milliner and  urged  the  sisters  to  patronize  the
Institution; said  many  more  instructive
things and asked God to  keep  us all faith-
ful.
	President Horne announced the Quarterly
Conference of  the Relief Society and desired
the sisters to attend.   Testified to the good
spirit here today;  spoke of the outlook  for
the crop next year, let  us  ask  God  not to
cut it off, but still bless us and sustain us in
our many needs.   Let us be faithful, never
cherish unkind thoughts to  each other,  be
slow to take offence and be  humble.  God
bless us and make us wise virgins, prepared
to meet Him when he comes.
	“Owing to  the  General  Semi-annual
Conference  in October  coming  on  our
regular   Meeting-day   also   our  Relief


Society Conference on our next meeting
day, this meeting will stand adjourned for
six weeks."  Sang Doxology.  Benediction
by Sister M. W. Wilcox.
			LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

		WASATCH STAKE.

	THE Semi-annual Conference of the
Relief Society of Wasatch Stake was held
in the Stake House at Heber on Thursday
September 28th, at 10-30 o’clock a. m.
and 2 o’clock p. m., President Emma
Brown presiding; Sister F. D. Richards al-
so being present. After opening exercises
of singing and prayer, the minutes of the
last conference were read and accepted.
The statistical and financial report for the
six months ending August 31st, was also
read and accepted. Sister Brown made a
few opening remarks expressing pleasure
at being able to meet with the sisters in
Conference and to have the company of
Sister Richards with us.
	The various branches were reported as
being in a favorable condition, except one
which had lately been disorganized; many
good remarks were made by those sisters
who reported. Sister Richards occupied a
good portion of time both morning and
afternoon, during which time many
valuable instructions and much good coun-
sel was given. President Abram Hatch
said he had listened with pleasure to the
good counsel given, and the testimonies
borne to day; said the brethren should
come in and bless the sisters with their
presence said we have many happy homes
here and much to be thankful for; felt
to heartily thank all who had taken part in
making the conference interesting. Sister
Brown adjourned the conference and called
for a vote of thanks for Sister Richards,
and all who had taken part in the con-
ference, which was unanimously given.
Singing “Behold the Saviour comes.”
Benediction by President A. Hatch.
				HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.


SAN JUAN STAKE.

	MINUTES of the San Juan Stake Relief
Society Conference held in Monticello Aug.
21st, 1893. Stake President Martha Ham-
mond presiding. Choir sang “Redeemer
of Israel.” Prayer by Bishop F. I. Jones;
choir then sang “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest.”
	President Martha Hammond made
a few interesting remarks, stated that she
had enjoyed herself very much during
Conference. She regreted that there were
not more of the older sisters present, desired
to take a trip around the Stake and visit the
societies.
	Stake Counselor Mary N. Jones said by
becoming acquainted with the sisters and
attending meetings we receive the Spirit of
our calling and will be blessed. She had a
good feeling toward all of her sisters and
hoped they had toward her, felt to encourage
the sisters to attend Conference and other
meetings.
	President Kristen Nielsen of Bluff Ward
Norah Hammond of Mancos, Mary M.
Jones of Monticello each reported her
society as in a good lively condition, good
attendance and a feeling of peace and love
among the sisters.


President Hammond thought there ought
to be one representative from each ward.
Advised the sisters to work for the interest
of the Society and to store up grain. She
also spoke of the many ways in which the
sisters could put means in the treasury, but
not to keep it in the treasury if there were
any poor who needed it; counseled the
sisters to labor with the spirit of their call-
ing, she also advised the sisters to take the
Exponent.
	Stake President F. A. Hammond felt to
endorse all the reports, and all that had been
said would be well for us to remember, and
gather up all of the instructions given in
Conference and carry them out, encouraged
the sisters to store up grain and follow out the
counsels of Eliza R. Snow and Bathsheba
Smith. He also stated that those who fol-
lowed out the counsels of those placed over
them were wise; if we would do this we
should have something to eat and to give to
the poor emigrant. He spoke at some
length on economy and advised the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. to treasure up
all they could and make the best possible
use of it.
	Stake Counselor William Halls spoke a
short time, bore testimony to what had
been said and that our religion would not
do us much good if we did not make good
use of it.
	Stake Counselor P. D. Lyman, endorsed
the reports and the remarks that had been
made, said there were many organizations
among the sisters, and many among the
men and the men are interested in them and
they can both do a great deal of good in
helping each other. The wider women’s
field is and the more liberty they have the
more good they can do. If the women had
their rights the less blasphemy there would
be in the world.
	President Hammond stated that the
Conference would be adjourned for three
months. Choir sang, "Great is the Lord,"
benediction by Bishop Jense Nielsen.
				EMMA BAYLES Sec.


THE WAR OF THE REBELLION.

	As Buchanan’s term of office drew to-
wards its close, no less than four candidates
were nominated to succeed him. Of these
Abraham Lincoln, the candidate of the
Republicans, was successful although the
southern leaders had threatened that if he
should be elected, the states of the south
would secede, that is, would withdraw
from the union as they claimed the right to
do. When it became known that Lincoln,
the candidate of the party opposed to the
further extension of slavery, would be the
next President, the secession movement
began. Public meetings were held in
South Carolina; and, on the 20th, of Dec.
1860, an ordinance was passed by a state
convention, held in Charleston, which
formally declared that the Union now sub-
sisting between South Carolina and other
states is hereby dissolved. Six days after-
wards Major Anderson, of the national
army, commanding at Fort Moultrie, with-
drew the garrison of eighty men from that
fort, and removed to Fort Sumter. This
being regarded by the South Carolinians as
a hostile act, they at once seized the custom-
house at Charleston, as well as other
property belonging to the general govern-
ment, and commenced operations to drive
Anderson from his new position. Six other
states, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama,

[Column 2]
Georgia, Louisiana and Texas, following
the lead of South Carolina, passed secession
ordinances in the early part of 1861. In
February a congress of delegates from all
the states, except Texas, met at Mont-
gomery, and formed a government called
“The Confederate States of America.”
Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi was elected
by the Congress President of the Con-
federacy, and Texas being then represented,
was duly inaugurated.
	A steamer, sent from New York with
supplies and reinforcements for Fort Sum-
ter, arrived off Charleston, but being fired
upon by the batteries which had been
erected by the Confederates, was compelled
to put back. Thus you see South
Carolina commenced the war by firing at
the American flag, the frantic tumult
spread along every river and over every
mountain in the slave states from
Chesapeake bay to the Mexican frontier.
Forts, arsenals, navy-yards and other
property of the nation, were seized by state
authority of the Confederacy. General
Dix, Secretary of the National Treasury,
ordered two revenue cutters, stationed at
New Orleans, to be taken to New York,
but the captain of one of the cutters re-
fussing to obey, he sent a telegram to the
lieutenant, ordering the arrest of the captain
and closing with the command. “If any one
attempt to haul down the American flag,
shoot him on the spot.”
	The affairs of the country, when Lincoln
entered upon the office of President, March
4th, 1861, were in a sadly distracted con-
dition, “Menaces that the President-elect
would never be permitted to take the oath
of office had been freely and loudly made,”
consequently General Scott took every
precaution, and the inauguration took place
amid a greater display of military than had
ever before been witnessed on such occasions.
In his address, which was mild, the Presi-
dent declared with special emphasis, that he
had no purpose or inclination to interfere
with slavery where it already existed,
further declaring that he had “no lawful
right to do so.”
	This assurance, however, had no effect
whatever upon the Southern leaders, they
believing their duty to their states as more
binding upon them than their obligations to
the general government, so they continued
to prepare for war.
	A force of several thousand men was put
under the command of General Beauregard,
who was ordered to reduce Fort Sumter
and accordingly, the “roar of a snorter
quickly followed by the rushing shriek of a
shell, gave notice to the world that the era
of compromise and diplomacy was ended.”
(April 12th, 1861.) Soon all the guns of the
assailants were in operation, and in the
course of thirty four hours, more than
three thousand shot and shell struck the
works. The defense was feeble owing to
the smallness of the garrison and the scanty
supply of ammunition. In his report to
the secretary of war, Anderson said having
defended Fort Sumter until the quarters
were entirely burned, the main gates
destroyed by fire, the george-wall seriously
injured, the magazine surrounded by flame
and its door closed from the effects of the
heat, four barrels and three cartridges of
powder only being available and no pro-
visions but pork remaining, I accepted the
terms of evacuation offered by Beauregard,
and marched out of the fort on Sunday
afternoon, the 14th. inst.


On the following day Anderson sailed
with his command for New York.
	“The welcome event,” said a Southern
writer, “was instantly announced in every
part of Charleston by the ringing of bells,
the pealing of cannon, the shouts of couriers
dashing through the streets.” It was re-
garded as the greatest day in the history of
South Carolina. While exultation prevail-
ed at the South, the news that the national
flag had been fired upon and that Fort Sum-
ter had fallen, produced an intense feeling
of indignation at the North. Thousands of
men who had previously been in sympathy
with the South, now declared themselves
in favor of the Union. President Lincoln’s
call for seventy-five thousand troops met
with a hearty and favorable response from
all the free states.
	Political differences were forgotten in the
impulse to defend the national government.
	Two days after Lincoln’s call for troops,
Davis issued a proclamation inviting
privateers to prey upon the commerce of
the United States; this was followed by one
from Lincoln, declaring the ports of the
Confederate States to be in a state of
blockade.
	After the secession of Virginia, Rich-
mond became the capital of the Confederacy.
The Southern army, numbering a hundred
thousand men, occupied a line through the
state from Harper’s Ferry to Norfolk.
	Of this army, a large force, under
Beauregard, was at Manassas Junction, in 
front of which was the little stream of Bull
Run, in a narrow wooded valley. Orders
were given to General McDonald who com-
manded a large part of the Union army to
attack Beauregard. A desperate conflict
served in which more than forty thousand
men were engaged. The advantage at first
was upon the side of the Union Army, but
the confederates being largly reinforced at
last prevailed and the national troops,
exhausted and panic-stricken, fled in dis-
order towards Washington.
	This great disaster taught the people of
the North that the task they had under-
taken was greater than they opposed, but
they did not waver. It stimulated them to
greater exertions. Congress voted to raise
more money and meu.
	"Having chosen our course" said Lincoln
“without guile and with good purpose let us
now renew our trust in God, go forward
without fear and with manly hearts.”
	In the meantime, civil war raged in
Missouri, but the efforts of the successionist
to take the state out of the Union were
frustrated mainly through the prompt
action of General Lyon.
	Events showed that to complete the 
blockade, nearly six hundred rebels, most
of them steamers, would be required.
A number of privateers were fitted out by
the Confederates to roam the seas and prey
upon the Merchant ships of the North.
One of the most successful of these was the
Alabama, famous for its capture and de-
struction of American ships.
		SECOND YEAR OF THE WAR.
	The whole Union force in the field at the
beginning of 1862 reached the number of
five hundred thousand. The Confederate
was somewhat less.
	In Kentucky the Confederates were de-
feated at Mill Spring. A few days later
General Grant, with the aid of the gun-
boats captured Fort Donelson, Grant's
army; after the victory of Fort Donelson,
proceeded up to Tennessee river. The

[Column 2]
next day reinforcement, having arrived for
Grant, the Confederates commanded by
Beauregard, were in turn driven from their
position and compelled to retreat April 7th,
1862.
	The Union cause was also successful in
Louisiana a naval expedition commanded
by Captain Farragut. About thirty miles
above the mouth of the Mississippi river
were two forts, which were the main
defence of the city. For six days the fleet
poured an incessant fire upon the fort which
was answered to with vigor.
	At last Farragut resolved to run by them.
A dozen thunder storms never roared more
terrifically than did the peal of hostile can-
non, still the fleet kept on and passed the
fort, just then it was attacked  by more
than a dozen Confederate steamers. The
noise was awful. The guns in the fleets
and forts belching forth at once together
with the explosion of boilers and maga-
zines and the shrieks of scalded and
wounded men made an appaling noise, but
the victory was Farragut’s. The next
naval battle was between the Virginia and 
the Monitor. 
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


“DAUSK KOINDESAMFUND.”

		(DANISH SOCIETY OF WOMEN.)

	IT is twenty years since ‘‘Dausk Koin-
desamfund” was founded. By glancing
over what has been done during these years,
let us judge if this society has vital power
enough to subsist and a right to do so.
	“The society was founded at my wife’s
working table,’’ Mr. Frederick Bayer has
said, and certainly it was he and his wife,
who together with Caroline Testman took
the initiative. That this epoch coincides
with the opening of our new literary era
was certainly no chance. Brandes'  trans-
lation of Stuart Mill’s, “The Subjection of
Women,’’ had just appeared and not only
aroused new thoughts in many minds, but
also kindled serious thoughts among the
earlier friends of the cause of women. The
turn matters took here, and the way in
which it was started, shows clearly the in-
fluence of two high-minded women, Ma-
thilda Fibiger and Pauline Worm.
	The first under the assumed name of
Clara Raphael, with the boldness of nine-
teen years, had discussed questions of every
kind as to the relation between men and
women, but had been pushed back so
severely by harsh and narrow-minded
criticism, that she had given up almost all
literary occupation. With true womanly
perseverance, she then gave all her
strength to practical concerns and became
our first woman telegrapher. Something
unusual and brilliant in her literary debut
had shown the public, that a “cause of
woman” existed. The intense zeal with
which she adapted herself to smaller tasks,
so deeply impressed some few women with
whom she afterwards came into contact,
that through them it influenced the work
here for the cause.
	“The worshipping of women,” she says,
“has continued in our country longer than
elsewhere. To be a fellow-citizen, a fellow-
worker, is no very attractive idea to her,
who has been told that she is the inspiring
principle in life.” Accordingly the first
thing a Danish society of women had to do
was to teach women to work to gain the

[Column 2]
inner independence, while struggling for
the outward one.
	Pauline Worm has in her excellent novel,
“De Fornuftige” (sensible people), shown
how a young woman, with higher aims
than her fellow sisters, sinks exhausted
with the struggle; the authoress herself
wore out her strength as a school mistress 
in a provincial town. She did not, how-
ever, neglect any occasion for showing the
injustice toward woman. The seed she had
sown by her energetic and untiring work,
was in due time reaped by women, who
continued her work and tried to make the
cause of women what she always desired it
to be: the cause of the whole nation.
	These two pioneers immediately enlisted
themselves as common workers in the so-
ciety, though Mathilda Fibiger died the
year after its formation.
	There was enough to do, and the direc-
tion missed no opportunity which was pre-
sented. It struggled for the forming of a
woman’s book-club reading-room (Koinde-
lig Loseforening,) and when later this idea
was realized by others, it supported this
institution, which had hard times at first.
Though pecuniary means were but small,
it gave help to some of our earliest women
students. For years it held a Sunday-
school for working women. But its special
aim was the founding of professional
schools for women and it could scarcely
have done anything more appropriate. By
the assistance of both private and public
means our first commercial school (Manager
C. Testman) was founded in 1872, and in
1875 Women’s Drawing School (Manager
Charlotte Klein.)
	Besides these educational aims, the
direction continually kept an eye on differ-
ent points of our legislation, where women
are wronged. By discussions with pro-
minent lawyers we had tried to rouse some
interest as to equalization of man and
woman in pecuniary matters, and by
petitions to Government and Parliament to
effect some ameliorations in this respect, as
well as more protection for wives against
ill-treatment by their hnsbands. As a re-
sult of these exertions may be named the
law of Mr. Bayer, May, 1880, which gave
married women the free disposal of their
own gains; it was supported by a petition
from the Women’s Society, signed by 2,700
women.
	In the meantime, the way was being
cleared for the spreading of its ideas in
wider circles. Hoctrup, Bjornson, Ibsen
had in different manners treated the woman
question, and made every reading person
in Scandinavia think about it and speak of
it; and a powerful political motion all over
the country had roused the scene of spirit-
ual, and especially social questions. Thus
the right epoch had come, and a lively
agitation for the cause began. The means
used were lectures, ppamplets, and from
1885, the monthly review: Koin den og
Samfundet (Woman and Society.) For
country colleges and debating societies,
lecturers were continually wanted and sent
from “Danish Society of Women.” Some
years about 100 lectures were given. Of
pamphlets, one especially, “The Woman
Cause,” by Astrid Stampe, was spread all
over the country in many thousand copies.
The effect of this agitation was soon seen,
and in a few years the number of members
was augmented from 128 to more than
1,000.
	Among the many various themes, which
have been treated verbally or by letter, we


may name especially: the legal position of
wives, woman’s right to gain her bread,
woman’s situation in public life, the legal
position of illegitimate children and their
mothers, the cause of maid servants, and
the moral question. Both by discussing
separately with the members of our Parlia-
ment and by sending petitions to Govern-
ment and Parliament we supported different
bills, of which two were made laws: First,
the proposition as to amelioration of the
position of illegitimate children and their
mothers, and second, inspection of the
treatment of foster children.
	It cannot be doubted that we have done
a considerable share in bringing about the
altered public opinion, which has in the
later years manifested itself. We have not,
however, any more than in other countries
succeeding in organizing the friends of the
cause to a compact unity. New societies
were formed, both in the capital and in the
provinces, some of which did not conform
with the society at Copenhagen, and in dis-
cussions occasioned by this, serious differ-
ences of opinion within the society itself
were manifested and partly checked its
working. So in 1887, a great common
meeting was summoned by some members,
who wanted to have annihilated that
paragraph of the laws, which started the
exigence of equalization. The direction
thought it right to give way to the majority
in order not to hurt practical work, which
was going on and considered more impor-
tant. Some months after, an extraordinary
meeting was held, which wanted the
direction to promise to stop the debating of 
the moral equalization of men and women
as something beyond the aims of the society. 
The direction, however, maintained that
free discussion of everything touching the
interests of women, the moral question too,
is a vital condition for the society. This
opinion was strongly supported by the
majority of the members. The second
proposition of the opposition was that the
society should chiefly work for practical
aims. With this the direction could per-
fectly well conform, this being in reality its
own point of view.
	By opening a bureau for the hiring of
maid servants we tried to make better the
situation  of maid servants, who often
suffered bad treatment at unauthorized hir-
ing offices; and such offices have, in con-
sequence of our exertions, been abolished.
By a bureau of engagement for other
women—such as governesses, housekeepers,
etc.—and by the opening of a bureau, which 
gives advice and explanations, practical and
legal, we have also tried to support women.
A fund has been founded in memory of
Mrs. Rovsing (one of the directors) with
the aim of giving professional training to 
young women. Besides, we have worked
with more or less success to open new
situations to women—farming, horticulture,
stenography, etc. A committee has made
plans for teaching cooking to girls in
common schools, and we now wait for the
resolution of the school authorities in this
matter. Another committee has under-
taken careful inquiries as to the economical
situation of working women of every kind
in Copenhagen. For the present we want
to form a professional school for seam-
stresses. By lectures about the human
body,by a book about "rational dress" and by
occasionally exhibiting models of dresses,
we have also worked for the development
of woman’s health and power to work.

[column 2]
	As to greater reforms in legislature, the
society considers woman’s acquirement of
municipal rights to be the most pressing.
A petition to Government and Parliament,
signed by more than 20,000 women all
over the country, has been sent in, and we
have tried by interpellations at elections, by
discussions in our monthly Review and by
public meetings to keep the interest awake
as to this and other reforms, because we
think that the time cannot be far off when
the place in society, which theoretically can-
not any more be denied to woman, will in
reality be given her.
	Women, however, form as yet a class of
proletaries in society, and it is a hard task
to carry on the cause of proletaries. But,
we must arm ourselves with patience among
other qualities. Twenty years are but a
small space of time in a society’s history of
development. Some traces “Danish Society
of Women’’ has left through these years,
and besides, work of this kind will have
more effect than can be directly estimated.
Our society exists and is one among the
working powers; and to the future we look
for the further development of its high
aims and lofty aspirations.
		The American Woman’s Jonrnal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	ONCE more the grim moster, death, has paid us
a visit and taken from our midst one of our loved
sisters.  Sister Elizabeth Carlile was called home
to rest after a severe attack of dropsy lasting
about three months, at the age of seventy-one
years and two months; deceased was born at
Mission, Nottinghamshire, England, November
22nd, 1822.  She emigrated with her family to
America in 1849 stopping at Council Bluffs, till
1852, when she with her family crossed the plains
and settled at Provo.  In the spring of 1859 they
moved to Provo Valley where her husband died
in the fall of that year, she being left a widow
with a family of five, experienced considerable
hardship in rearing her family.  She was a faith-
ful member of the Relief Society of Heber West
Ward also quite active as a teacher as long as
health permitted and seemed to take delight in
doing good and contributing of her means for
the support of the poor and needy, and the up-
building of the Kingdom of God upon the earth,
and has now gone to reap the reward promised
to the faithful, and mingle with loved ones gone
before. She was the mother of seven children
three of whom survive her, and her posterity
numbers seven children, thirty seven grand-
children and four great-grandchildren. Peace to
her soul.
	HANNAH HARBOUR, Sec.
	CATHRINE FOREMAN Prest.


BRADLeY—At Moroni, Sanpete Co. Utah, March
17th, 1893 of paralysis, after an illness of twelve
hours, Sister Betsy Bradley wife of Ex. Bishop
George W. Bradley, late of this place, born July
4th, 1811, in Clarence, Erie Co. N. Y.
	She died as she had lived, a faithful Saint, her
connection with the Church dates from 1844, n
which year she was baptized, and joined the
fortunes, and trials, of the Saints of those days,
passing through the trying scenes of Nauvoo,
the exodus, and toilsome journey across the
plains, arriving in Salt Lake City in 1848 in the
fall of that year; she was among the pioneers of
Sanpete Co. who were called to settle at Manti,
passing through all the vicissitudes of the of the early
settlement of that place.
	She with her husband was called to help settle
Nephi, where she resided until the spring of 1854,
when Brother Bradley was called as leader in set-
tling Moroni, of which place he was made Bishop
which office he held, until July 1877. During all
of those years Sister Bradley spent a busy, active
life, being first Treasurer, then teacher in the
Relief Society.
	She was the mother of fourteen children, a host
of grand children, and seven great, great grand
children, she leaves many dear friends to mourn 
her loss. Dear sister rest in peace.
Jane BAILeY, President. 
A. M. Hardy, Sec,


Editor Exponent.
	IT becomes our painful duty to chronicle the
death of another of our beloved sisters. Sister
Bergetta M. Anderson, wife of Peter Anderson
who departed this life August 1st, 1893.
Sister Anderson was born March 6th, 1818, in
Wielle Socken, Denmark, was baptized May 20,
1853 and emigrated to Utah the same year: she
was the mother of four children three of whom
awaited her on the other shore. 
She was a teacher in the Relief Society, kind
to the sick and afflicted, charitable to the poor,
and a true and faithful friend to all.,
She was an earnest worker in the Relief Society
as long as she was able. She leaves a husband,
one son, and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
She died as she had lived a true Saint in the hope
of a glorious resurrection.
	JANE BAILEY.President.
	ANN M. HARDY, Sec.
Moroni, Sanpete Co. Utah.


MRS. LOVINA FILLMORE, who died at
her home in Clarence, Erie County, N. Y.
Sept. 3, was born on Aug. 13, 1787, at a
time when the Federal convention in
Philadelphia was drawing up the constitu-
tion of the United States. She was two
years old when George Washington was
installed as the first president; and had
witnessed the history of the country every
since. Her husband, Rev. Glezen Fill-
more, was a famous pioneer Methodist
preacher. They were married in 1809,
three years before the second war with
England, and he died in 1875; thus for
sixty-six years she served in the arduous
duties of a Methodist itinerant’s wife. She
was a thrifty housekeeper and manager of
the farm and a woman of vigorous mind,
who rejoiced in her 106 years.—Ex.


R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
	Cash House

R. K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI- 
POISE WAISTS, ETC.

Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, BS SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Instructions upon these subjects two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.

MAGGIE C. SHIPP, M. D.
Will commence her next class in
Obstetrics and Nursing about the
middle of October.
	Office, 34 East 5th South, 
	Telephone 383.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 22.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1893.			No 8.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. Salt Lake Co.
W.S. A.—Maggie Bassett. U. W. P. Club—
Gladys Woodmansee. Gems Selected—E. H.
Lyon. Reorganization—Annie B. Despain. Wo-
man’s Foreign Affairs—Mrs Nellie Grace. Utah
County W. S. A. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meet-
ing—L. D. Alder. R. S. Reports. Mesa Items
S. M. Pomeroy. Vanity—Zion’s Convert. The
War of the Rebellion. Obituaries.
	EDITORIAL.—A Tribute to Lucy Stone.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY.—Lucy Stone. Thanksgiving Hymn
—Will Carleton. Autumn—Hyacinth. Some-
time We’ll Meet Again—E. L. G. The Trials of
Columbus—L. S. Dickinson.


LUCY STONE.

BY REV. LOUISE S. BAKER.

HER saintly face, flower-like, turned ever toward 
	the Light,
Seeking that radiance divine which could be 
	lent again
To teach those of less steady look the vision
	bright;—
Tracing a pathway on life’s flowing moor or
 	marshy fen. 
That kindly face has met the Day with eye un-
	blenched
Its quivering light with rosy fingers beckond
	her at last,
E'en on the earth. Athwart her heart with fires
	unquenched
It lay—and, smiling, with the hope of action
	new, she passed.
 Nantucket, Oct, 22,1893.
— Woman's Journal.


THANKSGIVING HYMN.

We thank Thee, O Father, for all that is bright—
The gleam of the day and the stars of the night;
The flowers of our youth and the fruits of our
	prime,
And blessings that march down the pathway of
	time.
We thank Thee, O Father, for all that is drear—
The sob of the tempest, the flow of the tear;
For never in blindness, and never in vain,
Thy mercy permitted a sorrow or pain.
We thank Thee, O Father, for song and for feast,
The harvest that glowed, and the wealth that in-
	creased;
For never a blessing encompassed earth’s child,
But Thou in Thy mercy looked downward and
	smiled.
We thank Thee, O Father of all, for the power
Of aiding each other in life’s darkest hour,
The generous heart, and the bountiful hand,
And all the soul help that sad souls understand.
We thank Thee, O Father, for days yet to be--
For hopes that our future will call us to Thee;
That all our eternity form, through Thy love,
One Thanksgiving day in the mansions above.
						WILL CARLETON.


AUTUMN.

How beautiful the passing days,
	That quickly hurry by;
Whose life breathes out unclouded rays,
	Then gloriously they die.


The ash and stately poplar trees,
	Seem filled with yellow light
That nodded in the summer breeze,
	So dark and dense a sight.
The sun comes sparkling on his way,'
	Unmindful of his charm
The grass is rustling, Stiff and gray,
	To steps that tread nor harm.
Unsheltered flowers hang their heads,
	O'er bent and blackened stems,
That humbly droop towards their beds,
	'Fore sunshine that condemns.
In sympathy the sun imparts,
	A warm and healing breath,
To bind their little broken hearts,
	Which only hastens deaths
The ivy trails the old rail fence,
	Enlivened here and there
With red and yellow leaves from whence
	Shine purple berries rare.
The bright-eyed squirrel seeks his store,
	Of nuts that fallen lie;
Then speeds away the branches o’er,
	As if by winds blown by. 
The beauty of the leaves is brief,
	And by some magic spell,
When morning sparkles white, each leaf
	Seems earthward to have fell
Flowers fall with the germ of life.
	Unaided and forlorn,
To rise again like human lives,
	In spring-times’ early morn.
O death, life's most relentless foe,
	Withold thy cuel breath;
Nor bring earth's fairest ones to woe,
	Slay not, O bitter death. 
HYACINTH
Nov. 3, 1893.

[Column 2]
much to say of what would be likely to
transpire and the extravagance and style
which would be kept up, but as no one of
the party was interested in his views, he
grew silent and inclined to be morose
somewhat, and was not an agreeable com-
panion.
	On board the vessel were two or three
ministers, dissenters as they were designated
in those days, and Dr. Bland entered into
conversation with them on the first day out
and thoroughly investigated their religious
faith. They with some of their followers
were fleeing from the persecution heaped
upon them in their own native land, and
preferred hardships and privation in the
wilderness to the scorn ridicule and op-
probium of those among whom their lot
was cast in their own country.  Still they
talked much of the home they were leaving,
and the green fields so dear to every
English heart village-born, but above all
was the desire to exercise the freedom of 
conscience and religious views—for this
they sacrificed home, friends and the graves,
of their ancestors, not knowing what fate
had in store for them in an unknown
country.
	The ladies were too sea-sick after being a
few hours out of the sight of land to enjoy 
anything, and young Walton, who had lit-
tle courage at any time was quite as help-
less as his wife, so that what had seemed a
pleasant undertaking on the first day, was a
miserable failure before many hours had
passed.  Dr. Bland and one or two of the 
servants managed to take care of the rest of
the party, and the Doctor kept up his
interest in the Puritans on board, though
he could scarcely hold with the extreme
views entertained by them, being a man of
very broad mind and liberal education.
	One young and ardent disciple of the
faith Barrington by name became greatly
attached to the Doctor and his party and
was ever after a friend to the two families.
He sought by his persuasive eloquence and 
kindlinessto help Lord Walton morally and
to uplift him from the despondency which
had fallen upon him after leaving the shores
of England, and partly perhaps in conse-
quence of sea sickness, and the peculiar
combination of circumstances, that had
brought about his consent to take this
journey.  His influence was good upon
Maitland though not permanent.  In fact
so devoted was young Barrington that his
friend sometimes distrusted his motives
and fancied he was in love with his wife.
He had explained to her the need of re-
ligion and every day after she was
convalescent read passages from the Bible
commenting upon them, and she listened
dreamily to it all, as though she was half
distrustful it was not real but another de-
ception.
	Finally without any serious happenings
the company landed on the New England
coast, and having arranged beforehand
with British residents, were warmly
welcomed and soon comfortably established
in dwellings previously fitted up befitting
their station in life  All was strange and 
there were none with whom they had ever


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

				XXXV.
	OUR readers may think that when
England is left behind  the title should no
longer be England, but it will appear in the
future that the green fields of the mother
country bear strongly upon the lives of the
subjects of the story.
	The little party consisting of Lord and
Lady Walton their son Edward and five
servants, Dr. Bland and wife, son and two
servants thirteen in number embarked at
Ipswich in the ship Elizabeth on a fine
morning in May, the weather most
propitious and even Lady Anna was almost
jubilant though she had been at times
greatly depressed. Just before leaving
Maitland received word that his mother
would soon return to Walton Hall and look
after things during his absence, which she
added would be only temporary as neither
himself or Anna would remain long in so
wild and unsettled a country as America.
Young Lord Walton was almost unwilling
to go when he found his mother was about
to take up her abode in the home he con-
side sacred to the Waltons, and he had


[Column 1]
been acquainted, yet they were people of 
social distinction, and had come to America
some of them in official positions, and were
well posted concerning affairs in the new
land, and eager for news from the opposite
side of the Atlantic. The first few days
were all bustle and excitement, and Lord
and Lady Walton were made much of in
a social way, and received with enthusiasm,
and for a time this was very gratifying to
Maitland, but the novelty soon wore off.
Afterward he became restless and as he was
wholly unemployed and did not interest
himself in any public affairs, either political
or religious, relating to the colonies, or in-
deed to his neighbors and best friends, he
was a sort of tax on the nervous energy
of his wife, and she had little to spare, for
her health was very delicate which was a
constant source of anxiety to her cousin
Jane, who had hoped to see her improve in
the new country, where there was so much
to divert her thoughts, and turn her at-
tention from the past.
	Dr. Bland himself was not in the best of
health, though he kept up his daily round
of business, and found plenty of occupation
for many needed medical advice, and he
soon became a great favorite. He was also
intensely interested in all that concerned the
Puritans, which somewhat detracted from
his personal influence with those, who still
maintained their allegiance to the crown.
His wife was one with him in this respect,
if not really more ardent and devotedly
religious in sentiment. Her cousin Anna
shared her feelings and this drove Maitland
farther away from her, and caused him
more jealous feelings towards young Bar-
rington, who quite innocent of any such
misunderstanding still visited at the house,
unconscious of causing discord or enstrange-
ment between husband and wife. It was
through young Barrington’s consistent
teaching that Lady Walton had been con-
verted, and she was so pure-minded and
honest-hearted that Barrington held her in
the highest esteem and their friendship was
such as exists between fervent devotees of
the same religious faith.
	Maitland’s jealousy made him unfeeling
aud he taunted Lady Anna one day with
her devotion to Barrington in such a coarse
way that she broke down, and became
hysterical for the first time since she had
grasped a faith which satisfied her soul.
	Dr. Bland was called and having, noticed
beforehand Maitland’s unreasonable sus-
picions lectured him severely after attending
to his patient. He reproached him with
wooing a beautiful innocent and un-
sophisticated girl surreptitiously, and then
after making her his wife without mercy or
manly honor even breaking her heart, by
his own misdemeanors, and now accusing
her of inconstancy of which he himself had
been guilty. Lord Walton could not de-
fend himself, and therefore remained silent,
but obstinate still, hating his friend unre-
lentingly, yet conscious of his faults;
after rating him soundly the Doctor appeal 
led to his wife, telling her if there was
really anything good in him, she could
find the way to his heart. Upon this sug-
gestion Mrs. Bland sought an interview and
found him a little mellowed, because of the
danger to his wife from his unfeeling re-
marks. Mrs. Bland made plain the facts,
she said, ‘‘You have brought my cousin
here of your own volition, and she is in a
strange country away from all ties and as-
sociations except us, and remember were
anything to happen to her in an unknown

[Column 2]
land, you would be called in question by
her brother, and Mr. Harrison, who would
not leave a stone unturned, or a question
unanswered in reference to the circum-
stances, I warn you now to beware how
you trifle with one who has given up all
else for you, and seriously consider how
you have repaid her.”
	Maitland grew pale and trembled for he
saw how dreadfully in earnest Mrs. Bland
was, and knew how indifferent and in-
constant he had been. He did not attempt
to reply only to bow his head upon his
hands like one condemned. After this
stringing rebuke Mrs. Bland left him to his
own reflections saying, ‘‘Should anything
of this kind ever occur again I shall send
for my cousiu Sir Clair Hilliard to come
and he will settle it with you, for patience
has ceased to be a virtue in this case and
Anna is too dear to me and her life is too
precious to be shattered thus mercilessly.
	Maitland’s remorse was so keen that he
begged the Doctor to let him see his wife
and ask forgiveness for the great wrong he
had done, and he would then at once seek
some sort of occupation in the colony, and
no longer remain an idler and would thus
make some amende honorable for his past,
folly.
	It was not long after this that Lady
Walton recovered for it was her mind more
than her body that was affected, though
she was indeed a frail, delicate woman.
Maitland obtained an official position as
collector of revenues for Great Britain not-
withstanding his title, he had not so much
money to support it, and he had made
up his mind to work. When he wrote his
mother the office he had accepted she
answered him disdainfully, though it was
evident from her tone that she was rather
pleased he had decided to remain away for'
the present.
	By and bye both Lord Walton and Dr.
Bland concluded to build and selected a
place not far away from the location then 
occupied. The purchasing of land and the
building of two spacious mansions afforded
some real pleasure to the ladies, and
was a source of happiness to all, perhaps
more to those English servants, who felt it
quite out of place not to have handsome
homes and elegant surroundings, and
longed for the luxuries of “dear old
England.”
	“For Master and Miss’us to be here in
this Injun country, where we might all be
chopped into mince meat and nobody the
wiser, and what would that proud Lady
Walton say! I’ll never call her by that ’talian
name', never! and our sweet Lady—bless
her, she’ll die here any way, not a thing
comfortable, and if it were not for her.
cousin she’d die anyhow, for she don’t care
a straw for anybody here, and is allays
pinin for the old castle, and what for no-
body knows, for her father was an old brute,
Baronet or not, and everybody hated him,
but she’s the dearest, sweetest cretur ever I
laid eyes on,” said the cook who had come
from Walton Hall all the way to ’Meriky
as she called it.
	Such conversation as this was common
among the old and tried servants, they hated
America and were always gossiping about
the good old times, and yet they would al-
lude now and then to the superstitions about
Walton Hall. However they were discreet
in talking to a chance acquaintance, and held
themselves far above the “hired help” of
the Puritans.


WOMAN S EXPONENT


SALT LAKE CO. W. S A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the W.
S. A. of Salt Lake Co. convened in the
13th, Ward Assembly Rooms, Sep. 19th,
1893. President Nellie Taylor in the chair.
opened by singing “Why do we seek" &c.
Prayer by Vice President E. M. Price, sang.
“O, ye fair ones” &c. Roll called,
minutes of the previous meeting were read
and approved. President Nellie Taylor
announced that four delegates were to be
appointed for the convention to be held in
Oct. it was moved and carried that the
President appoint them accordingly Vice
President E. M. Price, Julia Druce, Vice
President E. Mc. Farlane, and President
Taylor were appointed. Vice President E.
M. Price read a very instructive and in-
teresting lecture upon silver.
	Dr. M. H. Cannon gave a recitation en-
titled “The Sioux chiefs daughter,” which
was much appreciated by those present.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson felt willing to add
her voice in the important question of suf-
frage, that is near and dear to every wo-
man’s heart. Many evils that now exist
would certainly be quicker and more easily
remedied if once woman had the franchise.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells thought more should
interest themselves in this great and impor-
tant question, made mention of the Woman’s
Congress at Chicago, and said that suffrage
was surely advancing. Let us not allow
this subject to lie neglected and forgotten.
Meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in October.
				MAGGIE BASSETT, Sec.


THE regular monthly of the W. S. A.
of Salt Lake Co. was held in the 13th,
Ward Assembly Rooms, Oct. 17th, 1893.
President Nellie Taylor in the chair: opened
by singing “Our Country,” prayer by Vice
President E. McFarlane. Sang “Oh, come
come away” &c. Roll called, minutes of
the previous meeting read and approved.
	A few excellent clippings were read by
the secretary. A duet was rendered by
Mr. T. Ashworth and Mrs. Maggie Bassett.
	Mrs. May Talmage read an appropriate 
selection. Mrs. C. C. R. Wells and Mrs.
Julia Druce each spoke encouragingly.
	President Nellie Taylor recited “The
Eagle Rock or A Mother’s Love.” Re-
marks were made by Vice President E. M.
Price, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Vice President
E. McFarlane and President Nellie Taylor.
Meeting was adjourned until the third
Tuesday in November.
			MAGGIE BASSETT, Sec.


IN South Australia, full woman suf-
frage is under consideration. On Aug.
15, the Minister of Education moved the
second reading of an adult suffrage bill.
On motion of Mr. Caldwell the debate was
adjourned to Aug. 17. We shall look
with interest for further advices. At the
last accounts the debate was in progress.
—Ex.
	EXERCISES in memory of Mrs. Lucy
Stone were held at the public hour at
Chauncy Hall Wednesday morning Nov-
ember 1st: A poem by Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe was read by Blanche E. Ware, fol-
lowed by the reading of a part of “Eternal
Goodness” by Katharine A. Whiting.
Mrs. Emily A. Fifield addressed the school
on the “Life and Character of Lucy Stone,’’
—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOMETIME WE’LL MEET AGAIN.
	TO  E. B W.	

SOMETIME we’ll meet again dear,
	We cannot know just when,
But once again you will be near
	And I must wait till then.
We’ll joy as when we’re young dear
	And bask in summer smiles,
Nor think of winter cold and drear
	While flower and sun beguiles.

You’ll greet me as of old dear
	And I’ll remember you, 
Your presence shall uplift and cheer 
	The heart that’s ever true, 
And though the world is cold dear
	The tie which binds us two,
Shall stronger grow each year dear
	And link my soul to you.

We’ll bravely lift our eyes dear
	To future’s page unrolled,
Believing that there lies dear 
	Beyond, the Gates of Gold.
We’ll patient be and strong dear
	And hopeful every day,
We know the hour is drawing near
	And God will find the way.
Aug. 5, 1893.				E. L. G.


THE TRIALS OF COLUMBUS.

In the morning of the long night,
	Of bigotry and false learning,
When science began to shed its light,
	Over kings, and men more discerning,
God chose from the city of Genoa,
	A brave youth of humble birth,
His lands beyond the sea to explore;
	Lands of good and princely worth.
That youth, scarce higher than mother's knee;
	Treading adversities rugged path,
Pledged his life to the “Ocean Sea,”
	Contented with its love or wrath,
Imbued with the love of science,
	And thirst for geographical knowledge,
He placed in “Holy writ” his reliance,
	Surprising learned men of Pava’s College.

In the imagination of his youth,
	He pictured scenes of a world sublime;
The grandeur of which proved the truth,
	Of a scheme that grew with time,
For years, twice nine and more,
	While sunny Spain lay half asleep,
He toiled for the Western Shore;
	The mystic lands beyond the deep,
Kings wondered, wise men scoffed, 
	At the bold Explorer’s great theme
Of discovery, the whole world laughed
	As if it was some mad dream.
Cast down by poverty’s long defeat,
	He wandered, hungry and forsaken,
From Courts, to La Rabida’s Retreat,
	His faith in foreign lands unshaken,
Proving to his cause true and just,
	From the fair Isabella of God elected, 
He received, at last the needed trust,
	By foolish kings, so long rejected
Seeing afar, with wondrous knowledge,
	The truth of “Colons” scheme, she declared,
“For love of Castile, my jewels will pledge.”
	Thus the brave Queen, discovery’s hope shared
And with womanly courage untold,
	Drew from Aragon’s drained coffers
The needed thousands of precious gold,
	That silenced forever, Columbus scoffers,
When the explorer’s youth was dimmed,
	By the frost of half a century’s winds,
The Santa Maria, was fitted and trimmed,


For discovery’s voyage over the brines, 
Thus, with souls an hundred and more,
	The ships brave and proud commander,
Sailed the quiet or stormy seas o’er,
	Trusting, in a new world to land her,
Near the lands of wealth uncoined,
 	In Salvador’s early dawn of dew,
The last link of discovery’s chain joined,
	Binding the old world to the new.
						   L.S. Dickinson.
Salt Lake, July 4th, 1892.


U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE U. W. P. C. met as usual October
31st, with an extra number of mem-
bers in attendance, Mrs. E. B. Wells, the
President for the past two years, in the
chair.
	After an opening prayer by Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young the reading of minutes and roll
call, the Halloween program was carried
out as follows.
	Mrs. Ella W. Hyde read a paper stating
the Origin and Meaning of the observance,
which dated back to a very early period.
A number of the members gave interesting
descriptions of the superstitious rites and
ceremonies of the harvest festival which is
celebrated, not only in Scotland, but in
England and America alike, and many
pretty festive home pictures were presented
to the imagination of those present.
	Mrs. Phebe C. Young read Burns’ poem
on the subject. Miss Pearl Russell
favored the club with a vocal selection, fol-
lowed by Miss Belle Salmon who recited a
Scotch selection and when encored respond-
ed with that most-humorous selection “The
Mouse.” Mrs. Z. D. H. Young told an
interesting Halloween story in which the
magic or charm practiced really ended
propitiously for the parties concerned.
“Alonzo the Brave.” was read by Mrs.
Lizzie S. Wilcox. Mrs. E. B. Wells read
a paper relating to the ancient Druids and
Druidesses and their observance of the 31st
of October; it being the eve on which all
fires and lights were extinguished to be
rekindled from the sacred fire at the Altar
on the payment of the yearly tithes or dues
exacted by the priests. Other stories of
various degrees of interest and weird-
ness were read or related as befitting the
evening and occasion. Miss Maude Pratt
then favored the club with instrumental 
music.
	Refreshments were served during a short
intermission, after which the annual election
of officers was effected by ballot. Miss
Patterson introduced a resolution to the
effect that Mrs. E. B. Wells who had so
efficiently filled the position of President,
for the past two years, and who had been
ever foremost in promoting the interests of
the club, should be sustained as honorary
President for life. The question was put
and the resolution unanimously carried.
Mrs. Wells made a short but fitting speach
in which she thanked the members, Miss
Patterson especially, for the honor shown
her and the confidence reposed in her. The
reading of the votes by the Secretary show-
ed the following officers elected.
	President, Ellis R. Shipp, 1st Vice, Prest.
Ruth M. Fox, 2nd Vice Prest, Mary A. Freeze
Rec. Sec. Gladys Woodmansee Asst. Rec.
Sec’y, Ella W. Hyde Cor. Secy, Romania
B. Pratt, Asst, Cor Sec’y, Lydia D. Alder,
Treasurer C. C. R. Wells, program Com-
mittee, Chairman,, Lizzie S. Wilcox, Ada
Patterson, Phebe C. Young. Vice presi-


dents at large A. J. Crocheron, J. A.
McDonald, L. L. Dalton and A. E. Ben-
nion, M. E. Shipp Auditor.
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Secy.


GEMS SELECTED.
	IN pastures green? Not always; some-
times He who knoweth best in kindness
leadeth me in weary way where heavy
shadows be; only for this I know, He
holds my hand, so whether led in green or
desert land I trust, although I may not un-
derstand, I oft would faint with sorrow and
affright. But He is near, and by “still
waters”—no not always so, oftimes the
heavy tempests round me blow, and o’er
my soul the waves and billows go. But
when the storm beats loudest, and I cry
aloud for help, the Master standeth by, and
whispers to my soul, “Lo, it is I.” Above
the tempest wild I hear him say; “Beyond
this darkness lies the perfect day in every
path of thine I lead the way.” So,
whether on the hilltops high and fair I
dwell, or in the sunless valley where the
shadows lie—what matter? He is there,
so, where he leads me, I, can safely go, and
in the blest hereafter I shall know why in
His wisdom He hath lead me so."
	“Father, I do not ask that thou wilt
choose some other task and make it mine.
I pray but this, let every day be molded
by thine own hand; my will be only thine.
Let me not simply do, but be content, sure
that the little crosses each are sent, and no
mistakes can ever be, with thine own hand
to choose for me.

Do thy duty; that is best, leave unto thy Lord the
	rest.
"lt is easy enough to be pleasant
	When life flows by like a song,
But the man worth while is one who will smile
	When everthing goes dead wrong.” 

	“The good are better made by ill
	As odors crushed are sweeter still”

	“Lost, somewhere between sunrise and
sunset, two golden hours, each set with
sixty diamond minutes.”
							E. H. LYON.


REORGANIZATION.
REORGANIZATION of the Relief Society
of Granite Ward Oct. 18th, 1893. Meet-
ing called to order by acting President
Catharine M. Staker, Singing “Let those
who would be Saints indeed.” Prayer by
Sister Staker, singing “Now let us rejoice.”
Roll called—minutes of the previous meet-
ing read and accepted.
	The Bishop being present took charge of
the business of the meeting.
	Sister Catharine M. Staker was chosen to
act as President of the society. Sister An-
nie E. Hanson and Sister Susan Despain
were chosen Counselors. These sisters
were unanimously sustained to fill the
above named offices and were set apart to
act therein; good counsel and encouraging
remarks were received from the Bishopric
and other brethren. 
	Our society is not what we might call
first class as yet, owing to a great many dis-
advantages, but we hope to make it such as
soon as possible. Meeting was adjourned
for three weeks, singing “We thank thee
O, God for a prophet.”  Benediction by
Bishop Alva Butler.
			ANNIE B. DESPAIN, Sec.
Wasatch Oct. 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, --Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. - Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
    
SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15, 1893.


[Column 1]
A TRIBUTE TO LUCY STONE.
	IN the death of Lucy Stone all advocates
and ardent workers for the enfranchisement
of woman must indeed feel they have lost a
friend and fellow laborer, whose strength
and individual effort was felt wherever her
name was spoken. Always logical, clear-
headed and intelligent in all her arguments
she convinced her audiences where many
more flowery speakers failed to make a last-
ing impression. She had a remarkable face,
full of kindness and true mother-love, and
this not only for her own but for the world
of mankind, the intense love and sympathy
she carried into her work wrought marvels
in the cause, to which she devoted her life,
her talents and her energies with untiring
diligence; and in which she succeeded so
admirably, not only in furthering the high-
er progress of women and of men, but
also in making friends of the opponents of
woman’s suffrage where great and wise
men failed. To Lucy Stone women owe
much of the present popularity of the
suffrage sentiment.
	The newspapers of the East and North
abound with beautiful testimonials of the
pure, true, womanly life of this friend of
humanity. Boston, and the state of Massa-
chussetts may well be justly proud of Lucy
Stone. No doubt a fitting monument of
marble will yet be erected in remembrance
of her faithful service. As a brilliant
example of heroism and meritorious work,
perserving under perplexing difficulties,
and rising superior to all obstacles that
opposed her onward way,her life is a fitting
illustration; the young women of the
present day, have had the way to success
in many directions, in a great measure
cleared of thorns and briers by such
brave women as Lucy Stone. As long as
we have known of woman suffrage and
even before we heard the sound,
when the anti-slavery work was in
progress, we can recall hearing the name of
this woman among women.
	Judge how gladly the writer embraced the 
opportunity of visiting her in her own
home when an invitation was given her, in
the winter of 1886 while spending a few
days in the grand old city of Boston.
Previously several letters had been ex-
changed between the editor of the Woman's
Journal and the writer, and we took the
liberty of making a fraternal call at the
Journal office Park Street, where we met
Mr. Blackwell. Subsequently it was ar-
ranged that we should go out to the home

[Column 2]
of the Blackwells and spend a few hours:
accordingly in company with Mr. Blackwell
we took the old colony R. R. to Neponset.
It was winter time and a sleigh was in
waiting at the depot and driving swiftly
and talking as we went up a steep ascent
Pope’s Hill, we soon reached the handsome
residence of the celebrated woman, whom
we were so eager to see. Standing on the
piazza to welcome us was Lucy Stone her-
self, the sun was just setting in the West
and the glory of that sunset was heightened
by the beautiful light in her face, and the
warm welcome to her stranger guest was
like a benediction. Once inside the cheerful
fire burning brightly we sat and talked of
this and that, recalling things familiar to
one born and bred in New England,and we
felt almost akin when told she was born in
Brookfield the same town where our own
dear mother was born and that we knew so
well. Other subjects such as woman’s
progress in the West, the practical workings
of the ballot for women in Utah which was
then enjoyed, the hopes we entertained of
future advancement etc. In all these and
kindred topics her daughter Alice Stone
Blackwell joined and the time flew on the
wings of the wind. The conversation was
so entertaining that it was difficult to break
off, though we had dined sumptuously and
the hour was growing late. The hostess
showed us her desk where she wrote those
strong and forcible editorials and remarkable
paragraphs that were often silent forces in
remote corners of the world, and as we sat
facing each other at each side of the open
grate just before parting, she said how strange
that two so widely separated, by the whole
width of continent nearly from the Atlantic
almost to the Pacific should meet as ’twere
casually and have so much in common to
talk about.
	Since then we have met several times,and
at the Woman’s Congress in Chicago last
summer she seemed as likely to live for
many years, and looked as fresh and rosy as
most of the younger women. But no doubt
her work here was done and she has passed
to another sphere, and doubtless to solve
some higher problems, leaving her daughter
and others to carry upward and onward the
glorious structure for which she laid so firm
and fair a foundation.
	Honor and praise to the heroine Lucy
Stone, her very name is a talisman of good
and her writings and sayings are an imper-
shable monument to her blessed memory.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
THE good news from Colorada that the
vote of the state for woman’s suffrage was
6,000 majority comes like good tidings to
the country, and presages the good time
when political equality will no longer be a
by word and a jest, but an acknowledged
fact the civilized world over.

	We wish to call the attention of our
many readers to the display advertisment of
the Dunford Shoe Co. which appears in
this issue of the EXPONENT.  They have
just moved from their old location on first
South St. to the elegant store of Spencer
Clawson’s No. 57 S. Main St., half a block
north of Deseret National Bank.  Every-
thing in the line of footwear is carried by
this popular house and the prices are such 1
as to be in the reach of all  "Style, fit and
durability” at hard time prices is the motto
at Dunford’s shoe store. Ladies will please


take notice this business is conducted by a
woman and should therefore receive their
patronage.


WOMAN’S FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
	[REPORT OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE
RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE HAWAIIAN
ISLANDS, HELD AT HONOLULU, SEP. 30TH,
1893.]
	CONTRARY to the usual custom, the
October Conference of the Relief Society, 
Sunday School and Improvement Associa-
tion were held in Honolulu together with
the Honolulu Branch Conference, instead
of at Laie; these Conferences were held a
week earlier than usual, in order to give
the Missionaries and the Saints time to re-
turn to Laie for general Conference. The
object in this change was to give those of
the Honolulu saints as well as many from
the other Islands, who have not animals or
conveyances to come to Laie, an op-
portunity of attending Conference and of
meeting with and listening to the teachings
of the Elders in a body.
	There was quite a family of us when we
were gathered together in our cosy little
Mission House at Honolulu, twenty in
number, and although somewhat crowded,
yet we felt happy and joyous and full of
the spirit of our mission.
	Saturday morning, Sep. 30th, at ten
o’clock the Relief Society of the Islands
convened in Conference, President Libbie
Noal presiding. After the usual opening
exercises, the reports for the last half year
were read by Secretary Kekuewa Nakuan
showing a membership of 498; number of
meetings held 337;  Receipts $297.45,
Disbursements $113.15;  Amount remain-
ing in Treasury $184.30.
	There were in all seventeen branches re-
ported, ten less than reported at our last
Conference, this deficiency is owing to the
fact that, through the moving about of the
Saints, many of the branches which other-
wise would be in a flourishing condition,
have not sufficient numbers to warrant an
organization.
	President Libbie Noal first addressed the
Conference; thanking the sisters for the
cordial reception extended, to the visiting
saints, for the interest manifested in the
work, as shown by the large attendance,
and for the spirit of love and good will
apparent in the hearts of the saints for the
Missionaries and for each other; dwelt up-
on the duties and obligations resting upon
the sisters as handmaids of the Lord; ex-
plained in detail many points relative to the
carrying on of the work of the organiza-
tion, that all might labor together as a unit,
and conduct their labors in a business-like
way.
	After listening to the verbal reports of
the condition of the various societies by
their respective “eleles,” or representatives,
several of the native sisters addressed the
Conference upon subjects previously as-
signed them and they handled them in a
very creditable and intelligent manner.
“The Life of Hannah, Mother of Samuel”
by Kaluapalaoa; “Mary, mother of Jesus”
by Kahuhu; “Life of Mary and Martha,
sisters of Lazarus,” by Niaulani.  “The
Woman of Samaria” by Ruth Kauahine.
Original song for the occasion by Kekuewa
Nakuan. Sister Maggie Davis spoke at
some length, explaining the object of the
society, the benefits derived from such an
organization and encouraging the sisters in


their labors. Sister Nellie Grace read an
essay upon the past, present and future of
Woman. Sisters Davis, Grace and Presi-
dent M. Noal favored the sisters with a
song, which they seemed to heartily enjoy.
The choir rendered a selection after each
speaker, which gave life and spirit to our
meeting.
	At the conclusion of the programme,
President M. Noal presented the names of
the general authorities of the Relief Society
before the Conference, all of whom were
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Libbie Noal was sustained as
President of the Relief Society of the
Hawaiian Islands, with all of the Mission-
ary sisters as her counselors, and with
Kekuewa, Kahuhu, Kaluapalaoa, Niaulani
and Luka as Aids, Kekuewa as Recording
Secretary with Laeka as her assistant, Nel-
lie Grace, Corresponding Secretary and M.
Noal Treasurer. At the close of our Con-
ference, we adjourned to the basement of
the Meeting House, when we were bedeck-
ed with two and three beautiful flower
“Leis," and where we found a grand
Hawaiian Feast prepared for us, consisting
of poi, beef, pork and chicken, several
varities of fish, kalo, sweet potatoes, bread,
cake of different kinds, oranges, melons,
banannas, pineapples and soda-water, to all
of which we did ample justice, not forget-
ting to appreciate the love and respect
which prompted the saints of Honolulu to
thus look after our comfort and welfare
in such a substantial manner. Through
the labors of the missionary sisters, a
circular has been prepared, which is to be
distributed among the different branches
of the society containing general
instruction and directions, pertaining to the
duties of the different officers and which
will serve as a guide for the government
and managment of the respective branches
of the society; this will supply a want long
needed, as many of the organizations have
never been visited personally by the mis-
sionary sisters, although letters of counsel
and instruction have been sent out to every
branch upon the Islands.
	As a band of sisters, we are united and
happy in our labors here, and our hearts
desire is, that the Lord will bless us that
we may be useful instruments in his hands
in helping to better the condition of our
native sisters upon these Islands; that by
precept and example we may implant in
their hearts a desire to aspire to something
higher and nobler than they have yet at-
tained, and that they may feel they have
been made better by our presence among
them.
	Mrs. Nellie Grace, Cor. Sec.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


UTAH COUNTY W. S. A.
 
	THE annual convention of the Utah
county branch of the Territorial Woman’s
Suffrage association will be held in the
Provo meeting house on Thursday, Nov-
vember 23, 1893.  The executive session
will convene at 10 o’clock a. m.  The con-
vention proper will commence at 2 p. m.
The Territorial president Mrs. E. B. Wells,
will be here, also delegates from the various
organizations of the county.  All are
cordially invited.

	Mrs. ELECTA BULLOCK, President.
	REBECCA H. DOOLAN, Secretary


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th, Ward Assembly Rooms,
Oct. 21, 1893.  President M. I. Horne
presiding.  Opened by singing "O, say
what is truth” &c. Prayer by Sister
Julia Pack continued by singing “Our
God we raise to thee" &c.
	Minutes of last meeting read and ap-
proved, minutes of a concert held in the
15th, ward also those of a Primary held
there, read by a little girl.
	President Horne said she was pleased
with the minutes read by the little girl and
glad to hear the young voice in our midst.
	President Horne spoke of the death of
Sister Fletcher, President of the Relief
Society of the 8th ward, said she had been
a true and faithful Latter-day saint, a good
worker and had discharged every duty,
that had devolved upon her and had gone
to her reward, said she would come forth in
the morning of the first resurrection
crowned with honor and glory.  I have
thought much upon the sphere of woman
her mission and duties.
	The prophet Joseph when he sent the
missionaries out to preach the Gospel,
told them not to pull a man’s house down,
until they had built him a better one.  Now
have thought much on some women, who
want positions and do not appreciate being a
wife and mother.
	Woman should make her home happy
and beautify it, also take care of the little
ones who are given unto us.  Who fashions
the little garments, who makes the clothing
to lay out the dead, who sew the veil of the
Temple?  Do not women do all these
things?  We should meet together and have
our minds enlarged, and become more in-
telligent, so that we could perform all these
labors better.
	Our duties are not inferior to man’s, but
our natures are different and our missions
are different.  Do not women bear the
souls of men?  The highest mission that
can be given.  Is not her kingdom her
home? To keep that home orderly and
well needs as much intelligence as any one
can attain to.  She is a helpmate to her
husband, and all honor to her in her sphere.
	Remember these things sisters and let us
teach our daughters to be self-reliant and
industrious.  President Horne gave other
wise counsel, and prayed that the spirit of
God would be with us.
	Sister Hurst of Pleasant Green, bore a
faithful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel and desired to be faithful and true.
	Sister E. Stevenson, said I feel to say
God bless Sister Horne, she is a noble wo-
man and a faithful mother. I feel to endorse
what she has said to day.  Let us teach our
children to seek unto God, in their selec-
tions in marriage we can be so tried in
this way.  Let us adorn our spiritual
natures and be partakers of the Spirit of
God &c.
	Sister Mary P. Silver announced that the
sister who had been emigrated from the old
world had arrived, and was glad to be in
Zion.
	Sister Minnie Cook spoke of the wondeful
dealings of God to her and felt to praise
His Holy name.
	Sister M. L. Morris bore her testimony
and spoke of the many duties devolving up-
on a woman, added other good remarks.
	Sang Doxology, meeting was adjourned
for two weeks.  Benediction by Counselor
Webb. 	L. D. ALDER, Acting Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.

	MINUTES of Conference of Relief Society
of Utah Stake held in Payson City meeting
house Oct. 13, 1893. The Stake Presi-
dency of the Relief Society on the stand
also Sister E. B. Wells from Salt Lake
City Conference opened with singing and
prayer, reading of minutes of former Con-
ference etc.
	The President Sister John felt pleased to
meet in Conference with the sisters of Pay-
son, thought it a good plan to appoint our
Conferences around in the different settle-
ments, many were enabled thereby to
attend conference, who could not otherwise
do so; the sisters are faithful in helping the
poor, and in gathering means for that pur-
pose.
	We have Sister Wells with us today, and
many Presidents and will now hear from
them.
	President Pickard of Springville, Presi-
dent Colvin of Payson, President Stickney
of Santaquin, gave very favorable and
encouraging reports of their wards, all were
united in trying to do all the good they
could.
	Sister E. B. Wells the next speaker said,
“Sister Zina very much wished to be with
us but other duties prevented her, she de-
sires your faith and prayers, she needs your
faith and prayers just as much as the
brethren do, all you who have read Brother
Joseph’s remarks at the Relief Society know
what he said on that subject, of sustaining
with your faith and prayers those who are
called to lead. I have felt gratified in hear-
ing the reports read. I love to hear of the 
good work our sisters are doing, and it
pleases me to hear of our sisters saving
grain as they have been counseled to do,
am pleased to hear of the sisters building
houses to meet in.” spoke about the grain
that was being laid up thought that it be-
longed to the Lord, and the Church and
was for the poor, and the needy, and not
for any particular society, but would be
distributed as directed by the Presidency;
no matter who the needy were, whether
they were saint or not, if they were needy,
we must be charitable, she was very glad
to meet with us here in Payson.
	After. singing and prayer Conference ad-
journed until half past one p. m.
Sister Marilla Daniels spoke on various
subjects of interest such as storing our
grain, the good instructions that were given
us at Conference etc., etc., thought the
storing of grain was a word of warning to
the people, and we must give heed to it,
and take care of it, spoke of Dr. Barney’s
method of saving flour by packing it in oil
cans and sealing it up air tight etc. She
bore her testimony to the truth of this
work; we are here in the fulfillment of
prophesy, let us keep the spirit of God and
we will be all right.
	Sister John felt it a privilege to belong to
the Relief Society, it is a school for us, it
unites us with each other, we become ac-
quainted with each other by meeting to-
gether in these conferences, thought this
Stake was progressing in good works, ad-
vised the sisters to store up wheat, and be
faithful in all the duties devolving upon us,
tried to impress upon the sisters the idea of
all being Suffragists etc.
	Sister Wells spoke again for a short time,
on the importance of saving our grain, after
taking care of our poor, thought the teach


ers had very responsible positions teaching
the sisters temporally as well as spiritually,
said try to cheer and comfort them, do not
talk much about hard times, we do not
know much about hard times, but when she
thought of the hand-cart companies she
could not help shedding tears, “we are not
poor we are rich.” Sister Wells spoke of
the Silk exhibit from Utah, at the World’s
Fair, and of the notice it attracted, and of
the beautiful curtains sent from Utah being
on exhibition in a glass case, advised the
Sisters to raise cocoons and make silk, we
can make silk dresses, curtains, ribbons, etc.
if we will only work for it. President
Young said the air was fnll of silk, spoke
of the exertions of Brother Graves in trying
to get that industry started, said we must
promote home industries, we must sustain
our own industries and employ our own
people, and there will be plenty of money
soon, but we are very extravagant as a
people, in New England they are more
saving than we are. “Let us cultivate
kindness to each other, and not despise any
one that cannot dress as well as we can,
the Lord’s hand has been over us for good,
we have been preserved from storms and
cyclones, and we as a people should be
very grateful to our Heavenly Father for
his protecting care which hath been over
us.”
	After singing and benediction conference
adjourned for three months.
		Mrs. Caroline Daniels, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STAR VALLEY STAKE.
	The first Relief Society conference of'
the Star Valley Stake convened at Afton
Wyoming Monday, June 12, 1893, at 10
a. m. President Kittie E. Dixon presid-
ing. Meeting commenced by singing,
prayer by Prest.  A. V. Call, singing by
the choir. Opening remarks appropriate
to the occasion by Prest. Kittie Dixon. The
branches of the society were then represen-
ted as follows:
	Afton, Prest. Harriet Cazier, Grover,
Hannah Hepworth, Auburn, Catharine 
Holbrook, Glencoe, Elizabeth Turner.
All were represented as in good order.
The statistical and financial reports were
then read. Counselor S. A. Burton made
a few remarks in which she gave good in-
structions. Meeting adjourned by singing,
benediction by Secretary Lucy Call.
	Afternoon Session. Meeting opened by
singing, prayer by Sister Cazier, Singing
by the choir, Prest. Childs of Fairview, and
Sec. E. Walton of Cotton-Wood then re-
ported their wards as in good condition.
Some of the Sisters of the various wards
then made some very instructive remarks.
One of the Stake Presidency gave some
good counsel and encouraged the Sisters to
press on in the good cause in which they 
were engaged. Prest. Kittie Dixon made
a few closing remarks. Conference then
adjourned for six months. Singing. Bene-
diction by Bishop C. D. Cazier.
Kittie E. DIXON President.
Sarah A. Burton, 
Jane Parson, Counselors.
Lucy Call, Secretary.


CASSIA STAKE.
The conference of the Relief Society of
Cassia Stake convened at Oakley Aug. 18,
1893. On the stand were Prest. Louisa


Haight and counselors with the ward
presidents.
	The conference was opened by singing
and prayer; every ward represented and re-
ported in a favorable condition. Counselor
Helen E. Tuttle addressed the assembly,
spoke about forgiveness, and the necessity
of prayer. An article from the Exponent
was read “The World’s Congress of
Women.’, Coun. Ann Wilson said we
should do our duties td the best of our
ability, she felt to press on by the help of
the Lord. Brother Cyrus Tolman spoke in
regard to our doing work for the dead, and
preparing ourselves to be worthy to meet
those who had gone behind the vail. Ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session. Opened with the
usual exercises and reading of Semi-
Annual reports of the branches of the Re-
lief Society. Sister Ann Bird expressed
herself in regard to our financial condition,
trials were to purify us, we must have charity
and love for each other. Brother Moroni
Pickett addressed the conference, spoke of
the organizations of women, and their
duties women have been secondary until
the present, they are to walk side by side
with their husbands what is man’s interest
is woman’s interest.
	Sister Sarah Worthington bore a faithful
testimony. Prest. H. D. Haight said. It is
encouraging to see so many here and to
hear the instructions we have had, spoke of
our financial affairs.
	Prest. Louisa Haight spoke of hard times
and the necessity of storing up grain.
General and Stake officers sustained.
Conference adjourned for three  months. 
  	Lucynthia Robbins, Sec.


[Column 1]
MESA ITEMS.

Editor Exponent.
	DEAR SISTER.:—I have often thought as
my mind reverted to the scenes I passed
through in the city, that I would like to
pen a few lines in regard to our condition
and prospects in this far off sun-kissed land,
although we are behind hand in our Con-
ference reports,—I am happy to say that
our Relief Society in the several wards is
still alive, and doing a good work,consider-
ing the number who are really interested in
it and I hope and trust there will always
be a faithful few, energetic sisters who will
strive to keep the car moving and will
never slacken their efforts for good, how-
ever discouraging the prospects are. There
has been quite a number of changes made
in the officers of the wards and Stake, the
nature of which I presume has been re-
ported by the proper officers. We fully
realize that the race is not to the swift, nor
the battle to the strong, but to those
who hold out faithful to the end, this the
majority of us are trying to do.
	The Mesa Society has a hall which the sisters
have reason to feel proud of. It was built
by the united efforts of our society with
some backing from our good brethren. It
is built of brick and neatly finished and
furnished. Its originial cost was $150.00
but lately they have had some repainting,
and furnishing, costing about $70.00 more.
It was dedicated by Apostle J. H. Smith,
and since then the sweet peaceful inspiration
of the Spirit of God, has met with us in all
our meetings, many have remarked that
this influence was felt as soon as they
entered the hall. However we feel truly
grateful, that we have been blessed with

[Column 2]
means to enable us to accomplish this much;
of course the building of it has kept our
treasury, pretty well drained; but we felt
that we were putting our means to good
use, and we were obeying the counsel of
our leaders; I remember the last Relief
Society Conference I attended in the
Assembly Hall in Salt Lake, Sister Zina
Young laid great stress upon this subject,
advising the sisters not to hoard up their
means to make a large showing, but after
the sick and needy were cared for to take
their surplus means and build them halls for
meeting purposes. I can say with pride
that our society has filled its mission faith-
fully in caring for the sick in our midst,
frequently hiring experienced nurses to
care for those who were not able to help
themselves, and also in assisting those
faithful sisters in the Indian Mission, per-
haps a few words in regard to this mission
would not be out of place. Sister Susan
Savage is President of the Relief Society
of the Papago Ward which is a mixture of
Papago Maricopa and Pimo tribes. She
has Sisters Tiffany and Webb for Counselors
also Sister Susan Brady to assist them.
I don’t believe there was ever a band of
missionaries sent to the nations of the earth,
who were more anxious to do good and fill
their missions faithfully than these sisters.
	They (the natives) have great faith in the
healing power and when they are sick they
frequently send for those sisters to
administer to them. Sister Savage and
counselors, with characteristic energy, have
started a manuscript paper amongst them
inviting the Stake sisters to contribute
articles that will be best suited to their un-
derstandings. Sister Savage has through
faith and prayer succeeded in gaining a
knowledge of the language, sufficient to
interpret to their understanding what is
written which pleases them and is of great
benefit to them. They have a fine choir of
beautiful voices and sing from the L. D. S.
Hymn Book. Sister Thankful Harmon
(now deceased) was very energetic in train-
ing them in their singing exercises and was
missed very much when she died about a
year ago.
	Perhaps I have extended this article too
much already, use it as seemeth thee good!
With good wishes for all Zion’s Workers.
I am as ever your friend, S. M. POMEROY.


VANITY.

	WE are told by an ancient Apostle that
we are subject to vanity as the sparks that
fly upward; this being the case would it
not be well to cultivate a sound mind a
sincere and devoted heart, that we may not
lose the prize of our high calling through
vanity, for this being called the spice of
life, is there not danger that we may not
lose the prize of our high calling through
vanity, for this being called the spice of
life, is there not danger that we flavor our
lives or character too much with these spices
so that the simple food so necessary to sus-
tain life becomes to a degree hurtful, losing
the nutritious quality which the plain food
would give us.
	To a hard student who is making it his
object and aim to arrive at some intelligence
which he greatly desires, he sometimes
needs a little recreation or amusement to
give his mind a rest, then he takes hold
again with more vigor and a joyful anticipa-
tion of gaining the victory eventually when
he has exercised and developed the abilities
God has given him. 
	But, how is it with those who have no
object of this kind, and only seem to live


here for the purpose of enjoying all that is
within their reach, as it is written. “Live
while you live” the Epicure will say “and
seize the pleasure of the present day.”
While another person cries, “Live while 
you live”, the sacred preacher cries, “and
give to God each moment as its flies.”
	We find many in these days are like the
Antideluvians were in the days of Noah.
Would they listen to his warning voice,
Oh, no! They feel to say, how does Noah
know all this? Why does not the Lord
speak to us if this be true?
	But did they seek to become acquainted
with their Heavenly Father while their
minds are so full of vanity is there any
room there for His good spirit? Could He
speak to one whose spirit is exactly op-
posite to His own; would it make an im-
pression if the Lord should speak to them?
I think not. But when this calamity
came upon them then they realized the
truth of Noah’s words: a subject they had
no time or disposition to listen to then, but
now can both see and feel the importance
of the same.
	But this is not all. Now I would ask
how did they feel when the Messiah came
into the prison as we read in first Epistle of
Peter 3rd,chapter 19 and 20 verses. They re-
joiced no doubt, because they had heard of
a Messiah who was to come to redeem a
fallen world and now he is here in prison
with them: no doubt he came to do us
good as Moses and all the prophets have
testified He would do: they could then
listen to them. Just fancy the joy they
felt in seeing the Lord of Heaven and
earth come to visit them. Do not you
think they had faith that this visit would
result in some good to them being a part of
the human family also. O yes, and the
Lord also had compassion. He who when
on the cross said, “Father forgive them for
they know not what they do” would surely
feel for those who were drowned by the
flood.  He told his disciples what they
must do to be saved, for faith without
works was dead.
	You know that He told Nicodemus he
must be born again to enter into his king-
dom, yes be born of water and the spirit or
he could not see the kingdom of God. Now
could the Antideluvians do this? Their
spirits were separated from the body, yes
their bodies were here with mother earth.
	Well what do we read in Acts 1st, chapter
3rd, verse, we read that Jesus was on the
earth forty days making arrangements for
the salvation of the human family. He
told his disciples to wait at Jerusalem until
they received the Holy Ghost and then
ascended into heaven in their sight. We
read in Book of Mormon He visited the
Nephites on this continent after His
resurrection, and taught them how to serve
God acceptably by the sermon on the mount,
and established the same organization that
he did at Jerusalem, &c.
	Now we see that baptism for the dead
was an established rule after his resurrection,
This being an important lesson can not we
lay aside vanity while we study such lessons
as these. We find much to say if we study
such lessons as this. We find much to say
if we study it properly. Your friend,
	ZION'S CONVERT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT,


[Column 1]
THE WAR OF THE REBELLION 
		 (Concluded.)
	IN the meantime a vast army had been
collected near Washington under General

[Column 2]
McClellan, the object of which was to cap-
ture the Confederate capital. Early in March
an advance was ordered.
	At Fair Oaks McClellan’sarmy was attack-
ed May 31st, a fearful but indecisive battle
ensued. General Joseph E. Johnston, the
Confederate General-in-chief, having been
severely wounded, was relieved from duty
and'General Lee appointed to the command.
General Jackson popularly known as“Stone-
wall Jackson,” having defeated or eluded
the Union Armies in the Shenandoah val-
ley, joined Lee.
		MOTTO OF JACKSON.
	“We are now,” he wrote, ‘‘in a state of
war which will yield to nothing. The
whole south is in a state of revolution into
which Virginia after a long struggle has
been drawn; and though I recognize no
necessity for this state of things, and would
have forborne and pleaded to the end for
redress of grievances, real or supposed, yet
in my own person I had to test the question
whether I should take part against
my native state. With all my devotion to
the Union and the feeling of loyalty and
duty of an American citizen—I have not
been able to make up my mind, to raise my
hand against my relatives, my children, my
home. I have therefore resigned my com-
mission in the army, and, save in defeuce
of my native state with the sincere hope,
that my poor services may never be called
upon to draw my sword.’’
	At this time there were three armies in
the vicinity of Washington, one under the
command of Freemont, another of Banks—
and the third of McDowell. These were
united, forming one body, called the army
of Virginia. Pope, at his own request
having been relieved McClellan was again
intrusted with the command of the Federal
forces in and around Washington, the Con-
federate General had supposed that large
re-enforcements would flock to him in
Maryland, but in this he was dissappointed,
McClellan following Lee the invaders were
overtaken at South mountain, and though
they were defeated in the battle that ensued,
Sep. 14th, Harper’s Ferry with its garrison
of more than eleven thousand men, and its
vast munitions of war, was surren-
dered to a division of their army on the
following morning.
	Long before the next day broke, the na-
tional troops rising from their rest on the
bare ground, made ready their coffee, and
eating their simple breakfast, prepared
for a renewal of battle. They believed
that Lee had no escape. The river was at
his back. All day passed and a second
wearisome night and then there was news.
Lee had given McClellan the slip he had
actually crossed the Potomac unmolested,
and escaped into Virginia.” Lee’s army,
though foiled and compelled to retreat, won
commendation from foes as well as friends.
	“It had fought its way to the Potomac,
crossed the stream, met the Union troops
in two heavy engagements, fought the bat-
tle of Antietam—the greatest pitched bat-
tle of the war—and then recrossed the
Potomac, back into Virginia.
	During all this time, covering the full
space of a month, these troops rested but
four days. And let it be always remembered
to their honor, that of the men who per-
formed this wonderful achievement, one
fifth were barefoot one half in rags and
the whole half famished. ”
	McClellan remained in Maryland till

[Column 3]
about the first of November, when he
crossed the Potomac, but President Lincoln
was dissatisfied with his inactivity, ap-
pointed General Burnside in his stead.
Burnside, believing that the true line of
operations against Richmond was the direct
one,” advanced to the Rappohannock, op-
posite  Fredericksburg. Lee anticipating
Burnside’s movements, had meanwhile
marched along the south side of the river
to Fredericksburg while the Union troops
were waiting for pontoons to cross the river.
Lee improved the time by planting
batteries on the hill in the rear of the city.
The pontoons finally arrived and the river
crossed, but the heroic attempt to carry the
batteries were repulsed with terrible loss.
Thirteen thousand men of Burnside’s army
fell, and he was compelled to recross the
river. Money was easy enough to satisfy
everybody. The financial system adopted
by the Confederate Government consisted
in the issue of treasury notes enough to
meet the expenses of the Government.
Coffee was bought at forty dollars and tea
at thirty dollars a pound. A Southern
writer says ‘‘before the war I went to
market with the money in my pocket and
brought back my purchases in a basket, but
now I take the money in a basket, and
bring the things home in my pocket. ” A
cavalry officer, entering a little country store
found a pair of boots which fitted him,
he asked the price, ‘‘Two hundred dol-
lars” said the merchant, A five hundred 
dollar bill, was offered, but the merchant 
having no smaller bills could not change it.
	‘‘Never mind said the cavalier, I’ll take
the boots anyhow keep the change. I
never let a little matter of three hundred
dollars stand in the way of a trade.” 
	In the third year of the war, President 
Lincoln said, ‘‘My object is to save the
Union and not either to save or destroy
slavery.”
	‘‘If I could save the Union without freeing,
any slaves, I would do so. If I could save it
by freeing all the slaves I would do so, or by
freeing some and leaving others I would do
that.” Events controlled him. Then
“black regiments,” began to organize to
fight in the national service. At the close
of the year fifty thousand colored men were
in actual service.
	In the third year of the war President
Lincoln by an act of Congress recruited
the army by drafting. This caused great
excitement in New York a riot broke out
which lasted four days and was only put
down by the most determined effort of the
police and the military. (The battle of
Chickarauga.)
	The Union forces driven behind the in-
trencliments of Chattanooga. With the
Confederates holding the surrounding
hills, Lookout Mountain and Missionary
ridge—their position was critical indeed. 
	They were also in danger of starvation,
the “mud was so deep” wrote one of the
soldiers that we could not travel by the
road, but we got along pretty well by step-
ping from mule to mule as they lay dead from
starvation by the way. Still General
Thomas telegraphed “I will hold fast till 
all starve.” It was evident that something
must be done at once and quickly. Rein-
forcements under Hooker were therefore
rushed by rail to the aid of the troops.
Grant was ordered to take the command.
	General Sherman, who had distinguished
himself under Grant at the West was also
called to command, Thus Sherman com.


menced his march to the sea Nov. 15th,
after many cold nights Fort Mcallister was
reached and carried by assault, and on the
morning of the (21st, of Dec.) Sherman
entered Savannah. In announcing his
triumph to President Lincoln, he said  "I
beg to present you a Christmas gift, the
city of Savannah, with one hundred and
fifty guns, plenty of ammunition,  and
twentyfive thousand bales of cotton"
	Sherman halted at Savannah only long
enough to rest his troops.  Commanded a
march in the depth of winter to join Grant,
who was confronting Lee near Richmond.
	Lee saw he must either evacuate Richmond
and Petersburg,or be captured.  He then
began to form a plan by which he might
retreat into North Carolina, and there join
Johnston. Grant anticipating this issued
orders for a general movement against Rich-
mond. On the morning of March 29th,
it began, Sheridan's advance led to the bat-
tle of five forks, next morning at daybreak,
a general assault upon the Confederate lines
was made and before noon the entire
exterior defenses were captured. “In
Richmond, for it was Sunday the people had
assembled in the churches, knowing little of
what was going on twenty miles distant at
the fort. Davis had repaired to his custom-
ary place of worship.  There came up the
aisle a messenger, who handed him a dis-
patch from Lee, which contained intel-
ligence of the most momentous event of the
war. The news passed quickly from lip to
lip from church to church.
	Men women and children rushed from
the churches. Wagons on the streets were
soon loaded and driven to Danville depot.
The banks were all open and depositers
were as busy as bees removing their
deposits.  Hundreds of thousands of dol-
lars of paper money were destroyed.  From
that moment, law and order ceased to exist.
The warehouses were fired. The rams on
the James river were also fired. The
bridges leading out of the city were also
fired and were soon wrapped in flames.
	Morning broke upon a scene such as those
who witnessed it can never forget. “The
sun was an hour or more above the horizon,
when suddenly there ran up the whole
length of Main street the cry of ‘Yankees!
Yankees’!
	The Union soldiers were indeed entering
the city, and Potsburg was also in possess-
ing of the National forces, and over both
cities the stars and stripes again floated.
	Lee retreated to the south west, hoping to be
able to join Johnston in North Carolina, but
his troops were hotly pursued. “There was
no rest for them either by night or by day.
If they attempted to snatch a few moments
sleep, they were roused by the hoof-clatter
of Sheridan’s cavalry.” At last, overtaken
and seeing no hope of escape.  Lee agreed
to surrender.  In the largest building of
Appomattox Court House which boasted of
only five dwellings, he and Grant met.
“Lee stood beside a table, wearing a bright
blueish gray uniform, a military hat with a
gold cord, buckskin gauntlets, high riding-
boots and a beautiful sword. Grant, with
his slouched hat, dark blue frock coat
covered with mud, pantaloons tucked in his
soiled boots—wore no sword.
	They shook hands, sat down and soon
agreed to the terms of surrender, April 9th.
	The surrender of Johnston soon followed
and the Great Civil War was at an end.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1] 
IN MEMORIAM.

	IT is with deep regret, that we record the death
of our beloved President, Esther B. Fletcher,
who departed this life September 30, 1893, after
an illness of nine days.
	Sister Fletcher was born in Mass, where
she embraced the Gospel, and with her family
gathered with the saints in Kanesville on the
Missouri River, and in 1850 arrived in Salt Lake
City, and settled in the 8th, Ward, where she re-
sided until the day of her death. Her husband
died shortly after her arrival, and she was after-
ward united in plural marriage to Brother Royal
Barney.
	She was the mother of nine children, seven of
whom survive her, and are honorable members of
the Church of Jesus Christ.
	She held many responsible positions, being
appointed a teacher in the early organization of
the Relief Society about the year 1852, and again
to the same office, at the general organization
about 1867, she was afterward appointed secre-
tary, and again counselor, which position she
filled with great satisfaction, and in 1882, she was
set anart as President, the duties of which office
she faithfully performed until the time of her
death.
	She was president of the Primary Association
for seven years and a half; and in the early days
of Utah, taught school, she did a great work for
her dead ancestors in the St. George and Salt
ake City Temples showing her life to be filled
with good works. She was a woman of great in-
tegrity full of love for the principles of the Gos-
pel, never swerving, firm and steadfast. May
her children, with whom we sympathize, follow
in her footsteps, and may we her co-laborers,
emulate her virtues, and profit by her good
example,
	C. K. Palmer, President.
	S.J. Chamberlain,   
	Jane Cowan,  Counselors.
	J. Mortenson Sec’y.
	E. E. Frost, Treasurer.
IN memory of Sister Louisa E. Young who
died Sept. 18, 1893, aged 30 years, she leaves a
husband, six small children and a host of friends
to mourn her loss. Where-as in the Providence
of God with His unbounded wisdom, we have been 
deprived of the companionship, help and as-
sociation of Sister Louisa E. Young a faithful
officer and member of the Relief Society;
	Resolved—That we tender our deepest love
and sympathy to the memory of the dear de-
parted.
	Resolved—That in this great bereavement we
acknowledge the hand of God, and bow to the
nevitable, but realize that in her we have lost an
able and loving associate, whose charities, talents
and charms endeared her to us all.
	Resolved—That we tender our love and sym-
pathy to the bereaved, especially to the dear
husband and children, may the spirit of conso-
lation, peace, and comfort attend them in this
hour of affliction.
	Resolved—That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the Relief Society Record and a copy
sent to the bereaved, also'a copy to the Ex-
ponent.
	“And you shall shortly know that lengthened
		breath,
Is not the sweetest gift God sends his friend,
And that sometimes the sable pall of death,
Conceals the fairest boon His love can send.
If we could push ajar the gates of life,
And stand within, and all God’s working see, 
We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
And for each mystery could find a key.
We know that her trials are oe’r,
	Weep not that her race is run.
God grant we may rest as calm,
When our work, like her’s is done.
		Naomi R. Theobald, President.
		M. A. Davis, Secretary.
Hinckley, Millard Co.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
	To the Memory of a noble mother in Israel,
Sister Hannah Ann Dubois Dibble wife of Philo
Dibble, who died in Springville,Utah, Oct. 28th,
1893, aged 85 years 2 months and 28 days, was
born in Pedrick Town, Salem Co, New Jersey.
Embraced the Gospel in Philadelphia in 1839,
passed through the persecutions and privations

[Column 2]
of the Saints with her husband; was a member of
First Relief Society in Nauvoo being recommend-
ed thereto by the Prophet Joseph Smith. She
was also the only person present when Patriarch
Joseph Smith Sen’r blessed his sons; gathered to
Utah with the Saints in 1851, was a faithful mem-
ber of the Relief Society in Springville and when
the Ward was divided became a member of the
1st Ward Relief Society where she resided; al-
though too feeble to take an active part therein.
She manifested the utmost patience during her
painful illness of 12 weeks; and:
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has called her
home as a shock of corn fully ripe, therefore:
	Resolved—That we the members of the Relief
Society emulate her noble example, her un-
swerving integrity, her cheerfulness under trying
circumstances and her patient resignation to the
will of her Heavenly Father.
	Resolved—That we hold her memory sacred
and imitate her amiable and patient disposition 
and her many virtues.
	Resolved—That we present a copy of these Re-
solutions to her bereaved family, also that they
be recorded in the Record Book of the 
Society, and a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EX- 
PONENT for publication.—COM.


THE VIAVI OFFICES
	Are removed to the Ricketts Block— 
Corner State and 3rd, South Sts. Salt
Lake City. Suffering women will do, well
to investigate this remedy, as it is fully
proven to be a cure for diseases of wo-
men. Send for a Health Book. 
		DUNFORD'S
Have the Cheapest and Best Lines of
SHOES and SLIPPERS
		In the City.
New Store.	57 S. Main St.

	R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

	The Leading Retail
	Cash House.
	R.K.THOMAS
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
		Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
	AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
		POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Instructions upon these subjects; two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St. Salt Lake City.

MAGGIE C. SHIPP, M. D.
Will commence her next class in
Obstetrics and Nursing about the
middle of October.
	Office, 34 East 5th South.
		Telephone 383.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VoL. 22. 			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1893. 			No 9.


CONTENTS:
	Woman’s Suffrage Column—The Balot for Wo-
men—S. A. Boyer—The Annual Convention of
the W. S. A.—Maggie Bassett. Ladies’ Semi-
monthly Meeting—Lydia D. Alder. Mexican
Items—S. T. Brimhall. Some Women’s Lives—
S. E. L. R. S. Reports. Health for Women. A
Letter to the Ladies. Obituaries.
	Editorial.—A Few Suggestions. Editorial
Notes. Three Quarters of a Century.
	Poetry.—River, Field and Sky—Augusta Joyce
Crocheron. Thanksgiving—E. R. Ship.


[Column 1]
RIVER, FIELD AND SKY.

Once, far away, a river ran 
	Adown a rocky glen,
It sprang from field of ice and snow
	To bless the homes of men, 
And all the rugged hills were clothed 
	With branches broad and fair,
Festooned with many a clinging vine
	And blossoms sweet and rare,
While underneath, new flowers looked up
	To the bright skies of June, 
And little birds sang choruses
	Aye! Every throat atune.

Adown the glen two straying went,
	That day they each one knew
The silent charm the landscape lent
	And, closer round it grew,
’Till one grown freer, sudden spoke,
	Heedless of all beside—
‘‘O, I have loved you all these years,
	And shall, while I abide.”

Like sudden light amid the dark,
	The truth upon his face;
It blessed the rural solitude 
	With grand and tender grace,
And like a token sacred, sweet, 
	Unlooked for yet possessed,
She took the jewel, love, he gave, 
	And hid it in her breast.
And then beside that river bright
	They listened to its song,
Like silver flashing in the sun
	The swift waves danced along;
They seemed to answer to her thoughts—
	‘‘Will he be true alway?”
For every ripple sang at once
	“Forever as today.”

They walked adown the level field
	The moonlight over all;
From out the blooming hedge they heard
	The young birds chirp and call,
And darkening rows of corn shook out 
	Their tassels and their floss,
And rustled all their shining blades
	Like swords that flash across; —
O, all the air was like perfume,
	And silence sweeter yet
Had buried all the jars of day
	When night with twilight met.

They paused, he looking on her face,—
	She, looking to the sky
As though to read some omen there
	Where silv’ry clouds swept by,
And saw—a star fall shining down,

[Column 2]
	Then swift from left to right,
Another shot athwart its track—
	A cross! before her sight.

Again, beside that river bright
	The lady walked alone, 
The autumn tints were on each leaf
	And flower and bird were flown.
‘‘O, river, thou didst hear his words
	That radiant summer day,
Give me an omen: Loves he yet?
	For he is far away.”
That cruel river—(’twas not strange, 
	It sprang from ice and snow.)
It seemed to answer “loves some one.”
	And sped on and away.

The lady walked within her room;
	Her day had turned to night.
She slept and dreamed, a bird sang clear,
	She woke, the sun shone bright,
“O, happy token! stars may fall 
	And rivers dry may run,
But thou art constant, thou art like
	The ever faithful one.”

And while she heard afar
	(Faint music to her ear)
Swift hoof-beats. Who rode so but he?
	And now ’mid Christmas cheer 
He enters ’neath the portals high, 
	They came to bring her word;
O, Christmas Morn! thy tidings are
	The sweetest ever heard.

Go name all bright streams that ye know
	That flow toward the sea;
Go name all fields beneath the stars
	Wherever they may be;
Yet ye shall never, never guess;
	Where’er your thoughts may fly,
Where sang the waves, where, fell the stars.
	No, no one but my love and I.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, Nov. 20,1893.


[Column 1]
WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

Auckland, N. Z., Nov. 30.—The first election
in New Zealand under the female suffrage law
resulted favorably to the government. The wo-
men voted in large numbers, supporting mainly
the candidates who professed Christianity and
favored temperance.


[Column 1]
THE BALLOT FOR WOMEN.
	THE inconsistency of opinion, of which
many people have been possessed, that wo-
man is not in need of the ballot, is rapidly
becoming a thing of the past. What is
dearer to every true American than the
right to exercise his voice at the polls? And
if we stop to reason for a moment, what is
there to deter woman from this inherent
desire? It is not because she is incapable of
understanding the questions at issue, nor
because she cannot appreciate the ability
of the nominees. I know the assertion is
made that the polls are not decent places for
women, and that they are corrupting. No
place is decent from which women are long
excluded, and if they are corrupting, men
had better quit voting, some are fearful that
it will lead to a dangerous intimacy between

[Column 2]
the sexes. There could be no political
intimacy exist, that would exceed that
which already exists between the school
Superintendent and his teachers, the Mer-
chant and his clerks etc. In an Oriental
country a Physician can only prescribe for a
woman by thrusting her arm from behind a
curtain. If we prefer Turkish institutions
we had better go and live where they pre-
vail, but if our own system is the best let it
be consistent with itself and our constitu-
tion, which is a constitution of the people,
for, and by them, so that if we bring this
down to its technical meaning it is not a
government of the people, unless women
are classed outside, for there are more than
ten millions that have no voice in the mak-
ing of our laws, and they are the most
sober and religious portion of American
people. It is assumptuous in men to think
that their interest and affection for women
will lead them to just and wise legislation.
	Their desires may be, and I believe they
are perfectly in accord with the way they
would like to see them treated. But men
have not the intuitive knowledge of grasp-
ing the many reforms which woman can
see is neccessary to bring about a better
state of society; to protect the weak against
the encroachments of the more favored.
As the cooperation of the sexes is necessary
to people a world, so is mutual cooperation
on their part necessary to perpetuate its
virtue, to regulate its tone and to elevate na-
tional character. I am not superstitious
to the extent, that it will right all the
wrongs of women any more than it has
righted all the wrongs of men, but it is the
golden gate to every opportunity, and pres-
cisely the same advantage it gives to one
sex it will give to another. Look at the
interest women have exhibited during the
past few years, since the people divided on
Party lines. Must we ridicule this interest
and assure women that it is only for men
and boys, when they attain their majority,
to relegate to themselves this pleasurable
interest? I fear such comments would be
received with a degree of contempt, I
realize that the mere mention of the
political rights of women in the minds of
many, would indicate that the home would
be left desolate. But woman would not be
true to her instincts of wife and mother, if
the instincts of maternity, of domesticity,
are not persuasive enough to keep them in
the truest sense women, it is the most ser-
ious defect yet discovered in the Divine or-
der of nature; nor should women be de-
barred from this privilege, because the
majority are careless as to its advantages.
It is stated that eight hundred thousand
men did not vote last year. This is no ar-
gument that the rest should be deprived of
this right. Doubtless there were many
slaves who prefered to remain slaves, was
that an argument against freedom? Sup-
pose there is a majority of the women of
this State when it becomes one, does not
wish to vote, is that a reason for depriving
one woman who is taxed of her equal
representation? Or one innocent person of
the equal protection of his life and liberty.
We want no compulsion, like those Old


New England laws, which fined every voter
who did not vote. Men need not fear that
women will become defeminized, nature is
wise on those points. What ever their sex
incapacitates women from doing they will
not do, and their relation to society will not
be disturbed. It is useless for men to
decry the evils of the ballot for women, we
are assured of its power, and of the benefits
accruing from a national adoption of its
principles.
					S. A. Boyer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


The Annual Convention of the W. S.
A. of Salt Lake Co. for the election of of-
ficers was held in the 13th, Ward Assembly
Rooms, Tuesday afternoon Nov. 21st, 1893.
President Nellie Taylor in the chair, opened
by singing, "Oh, ye fair ones,’’&c. Prayer
by Vice President E. McFarlane, continued
by singing "Do what is right.” Roll
called, the minutes of the previous meeting
were not read. The treasurer’s report for
the year was read and accepted. The
election of officers for the ensuing year was
then carried out, by ballot, Mrs. E.
McFarlane was chosed by unanimous vote for
President, Mrs. A. W. Eardley as 1st, Vice
President, Mrs. E. M. Price as 2nd, Vice
President, Mrs. Julia Druce as 3rd, Vice
President, Mrs. Mary E. Irvine as Sec’y
and Mrs. E. McCune as Assistant Secretary
and Mrs. E. W. Hyde as Treasurer. Mrs.
Nellie Little as chairman of the Executive
Board and Mrs. Mary P. Silver, Mrs. A. W.
Grant, Mrs. E. Lyon, Mrs. M. Holt as mem- 
bers of the board. A vote of Thanks was
tendered to the retiring officers, Mrs. E.
Mc Farlane took the chair. Territorial
President E. B. Wells made some very en-
couraging remarks, touched upon the
questions that were important to suffragists.
Mrs. Nellie Taylor, Dr. E. S. Barney, Mrs.
C. C. R. Wells each made a few interesting 
remarks.
    The membership fee was lowered by
 unanimous vote to 25 cts. a year, with privi-
lege to call for 10 cts. donation. Meeting
stood adjourned ’til the third Tuesday in
December.
			     MAGGIE BASSETT Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING
	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th, Ward Assembly Rooms, 
Nov. 4th, 1893. President Z. D. Young
presiding, sang “O, happy souls who pray”
&c. Prayer by Sister Mary P. Silver,
further sang “For the strength of the hills’,
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
President Young said she was grateful to
be here today. ‘‘I look upon this organiza-
tion as near the school of the Prophets. I
have never seen a day in my life, that I
have not been thankful that I am a woman.
The man has the Priesthood, but he has to
fight the battle but our labor is to bear and
mould the souls of men. President Young
said when women are living their religion
they can wash and anoint the sick. What-
ever comes to us sisters, let us acknowledge
the hand of God in all things, then we will
be lifted up above the trials  of life. I trust
my sisters that all will speak a few words.”
	Sister B. Smith, said she did not often
meet here as she had many duties owing to
working in the Temple. Also spoke of the 
Deseret Hospital being in need of a little
help. Gave much good counsel and
prayed God that we might all be faithful
and be prepared to dwell with the sanctified.

[Column 2]
	Sister E. Stevenson read a note from
President  E. S. Taylor excusing herself
from coming today, as her daughter needed
her help a few days, also said that our
loved President Horne was better, although
she could not meet with us yet.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox made some excel-
lent remarks thought we would need all
the faith we could get to bear the trials that
are coming, bore testimony of the good
spirit in the Temple, and prayed that we
might all be saved in the Celestial Kingdom.
	The sisters sang “The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning,’’ &c. After which Sister
Gibson spoke a few encouraging words and
bore her testimony. Sister Jane James,
said many encouraging things but felt that
she could not express her feelings. Said
she hoped light would yet reach her people
and prayed that her son, might be faithful
and go to them, as the Prophet Joseph
had predicted. She then spoke in tongues,
Sister Paul giving the interpretation.
	Sisters sang “How blessed is the day,”
&c. A sister in the congregation said the
gift of tongues had been in answer to her
prayer, that we might have the gift today.
May we all be faithful.
	President Young then called on Sister
Lydia D. Alder to read the first lecture on
faith, in the Doc. & Cov. after which Sister
Alder bore her testimony.
	Susan Larson, of the 8th, Ward made
some good remarks and asked the prayers
of the sisters in behalf of the late Sister
Fletcher’s daughter who is sorely afflicted.
Sister Windsor, bore an excellent testimony
and gave many instructions, and closed by
praying for more faith and more of the
Holy Spirit to lead us back to our Father’s
Kingdom. Sister E. Brown also spoke
well and bore a faithful testimony.
	President Young desired the sisters to
read the lectures in the Doc. & Cov. also
asked the Associations to keep up their
Annual Meetings. Thanked God for all
the blessings received here today, and
closed by asking the blessings of God up-
on us. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Sang Doxology. Benediction by Sister B.
Smith.
	LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
MEXICAN ITEMS.

	WELL it has been raining very hard for a
long time, yes, at timesalmost pouring and
I suppose that on account of my long
silence that my friends thought I had
been drowned or been washed away by
the turbulent streams, but on the con-
trary, I have been quite safe, and busy
studying my lesson,‘well,” some one might
ask, “what have you learned?” “Well I
have learned to a certain extent, so far as
my weak nature is able to comprehend, to
trust in God, and it is the sweetest and
dearest lesson that I have ever learned.
Perhaps some of our dear brethren and
sisters in more favored and civilized places
wonder it our Father in Heaven would
stoop to care for these poor exiles in this
far off land, but it is so, and here in this
place I have learned the sweetest lessons
that the Gospel has ever taught us.  Here
under a lonely roof I have had an op-
portunity of peeping into the lives of
of some of the chosen servants of God,
for instance Nephi one of the forefathers of
this race by whom we are surrounded,
he learned to suffer and put his trust in
God, he was taken through the soul refining

[Column 2]
experience of having to leave friends,
home, riches, and all that he possesed for
the knowledge that he had of his doing the
will of Heaven, and after having made
those sacrifices was called to run the risk of
his own life, and commit a deed that his
own soul revolted against, knowing that he
was doing his duty.  It must have taken a   
great deal of faith on his part, he being a
tender hearted man to raise enough courage
to cut off Laban’s head. Then afterwards
in traveling with his brethren he was con-
stantly blamed for believing that he was
doing right, and his sorrows were great and
his life in danger constantly, on account of
the unbelief of his own brethren, yet his
faith never wavered, but was always firm,
and he said, 11 Nephi 4—24, “O, Lord I
have trusted in thee, I will trust in thee
forever, I will not put my trust in the arm
of flesh; for I know that cursed is he that
putteth his trust in the arm of flesh.  Yea,
cursed is he who putteth his trust in man,
or maketh flesh his arm.”
	His soul was continually poured out in
humble prayer, in passing through affliction,
his life was a continual feast of the divine
blessings and knowledge of his Redeemer.
And such will be the lives of all those who
have come here to the remnants of his
posterity,if their trust is firm in the Lord,
if they find out his will and do it, the rain
may fall and the winds blow, but if their
house is built upon a rock, the rock of
revelation, it will stand the storm.
	God never has called any person, or set
of persons to preform a mission upon this
earth, without having taken them through
many trials, in order to purify and prepare
them for the work.  Even our Savior
withstood the temptations and wiles of
Satan,before entering upon his labor of love
among the human family, and if we read
the lives of all faithful men and women we
find that sometime in their lives they had
passed through a course of trying ordeals
and therein had learned their lesson of
faith.  Those who are determined to do
right will be chastened and tried until they
will acknowledge the hand of God in every
thing, even in their deepest sorrow thank
Him for blessings, thank him for trials, and
suffering, it will be then and only then that
we will not be tried, for if we watch closely
we will find out behind every cloud there is
a sunlight, behind every sorrow a blessing,
and blessed be the Giver of sorrow and
trial, of joy and blessing. How shall we
appreciate friends, home, parents, without
having been deprived of those blessings,
but we will learn in the end that one
blessing we never have been deprived of,
and that is the tender watch-care of our
eternal Heavenly Father.
	S. T. BRIMHALL.
Colonia de Juarez Mexico, Oct. 11th, 1893.


BLACK FRUIT CAKE—Cream together one
pound of brown sugar and one pound of
butter. Beat the yolks and whites of ten
eggs separately. Add the yolks with one
pound of seeded raisins, one pound of cur-
rants, and half a pound of sliced citron,
one-third of an ounce each of ground cin-
namon and nutmeg, and one-quarter ounce
each of ground mace and cloves, also one
pound of flour that has been slightly
browned. Add the whites of the eggs.
Mix and beat well. Turn into a mould and
bake for five hours in a moderate oven.
Before using, ice and decorate with candied
fruit.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THANKSGIVING.

As light o’er the snowy-capped mountain,
	Brings promise of glorious day,
Our hearts over-flow as a fountain, 
	To Father our tributes we pay,
We give praise, and fervent thanksgiving,
	For all of Thy mercies so rare'
E’en for the privilege of living
	On this earth so lovely and fair.
We thank Thee for life, and its duties,
	The grandeur of being on earth,
For this world, and its marvelous beauties,
	Sweet flowers, bright sunshine, and mirth.
We thank Thee O Father for music,
	Expressing the language of hearts.
For poetry, painting,and sculpture
	And all the inventions and arts.
We thank thee for homes, food and raiment,
	For kindred, for friendship, and love—
Though we are but poor humble claimants,
	We praise Thee our Father above!
We thank thee for pain, and for trials,
	And waging of elements drear
With even life’s stern self-denials,
	And melting of hearts with a tear.
We thank thee for all oflife’s'seasons,
	For springtime, for winter and rain;
We know that in time all thy reasons
	To our wond’ring souls will be plain, 
We thank thee for hopes Thou hast given
	Of a life immortal and free, 
That beautiful respite in Heaven, 
	When again we come unto Thee.
	E.R.SHIPP.


[Column 1]
SOME WOMEN'S LIVES.

	THERE is a strange hunger in the average
female heart to be the one and only love of
some other heart. A God given instinct
no doubt, to make the monopoly of mar-
riage dear and desirable, but fatal if the
man be—as is often the case—selfish, need-
ing daily and systematic discipline;
tyrannical, requiring a little wise suppression
and deposing now and then; extravagant
needing constant lessons in economy, vain,
needing an occasional lesson in humility;
and the woman one of those poor, feeble
souls who meekly accept whatever is offered
and who will bear anything and everything
without a murmur rather than be found
fault with. A tender, sympathetic, self-
denying woman who deals with his follies
and faults gently and patiently, as she vain-
ly struggles to forget all the fond unrealized
dreams of her girlhood now so far behind
her; and feeling hopelessly in her inmost
heart that so far as her husband is concerned
the future holds naught of love or happi-
ness for her; feels with an icy pang a chill
sense of desolation and neglect, a
disappointment black as the murky clouds
which hide the blue of Heaven on a stormy
day; knows that her husband who has his
business acquaintances, his friends whom
he meets at the club and elsewhere is surely
growing away from her; that while she has
remained at home busy with household
duties and had grown rusty both in looks
and ideas, he has acquired the superficial
polish of the man of the world and has be-
come even more selfish, more egotistical
until he finally convinces her by continued
coldness and neglect that he is both weary
and ashamed of her. Oh! romantic idealist
with an impossible hero standing as the
type of all that lover and husband ought to
be in that bright fancy land which you

[Column 2]
imagine is the real earth upon which you
tread; how soon must the idol fall from his
pedestal into the dust and lie there degraded,
defaced; a thing to spurn with the foot and
put away with unfulfilled hopes and un-
realized dreams. Many and many a wife
who fulfills all her household duties faith-
fully who sits smiling conventional smiles by
her husband's side in public, live, the life
that honorable woman leads in this en-
lightened century, many and many a wife
looks back with a secret bitter smile to
those other days when she thought her
lord and master a hero, a noble champion,
who was always to be her lover and now!
	Many a neglected wife feels that same icy
chill; and such a pang is only the first of
many pangs which go on increasing until
they finally lose their power to sting so 
keenly; and the wife that meant to be so
patient, so loving and true becomes indiffer-
ent as to whether her husband spends his
evenings with her or elsewhere; oftentimes
finding herself glad that he is with her so
seldom. A strong-minded woman said to
me once: "Some women make so much of
trifles. Why, my husband is always out; 
and I'm sure I never fret over such a trifle,
and as for cards, provided he divides his
winnings with me I never think of object-
ing." And yet those very trifles are the
rocks on which many a poor woman's life
is wrecked.
"These trifles! Can it be they make or mar a
human life?
	Are souls as lightly swayed as rushes are,
By love or strife?
"Yea, yea! A look the fainting heart may break
	Or make it whole;
And just one word, if said for love's sweet sake
	May save a soul!"
	Memory brings before me to night, a fair,
young face, soft, confiding blue eyes and a
wealth of golden hair; now hidden under
a coffin lid; white their owner sleeps the
last sleep, the world forgotten, by the world
forgot. I saw her in her bridal robes when
she fondly imagined life held nothing but
sweets; that life, her life, would be one
long summer day; and I saw her agin
when she had proven the fallacy of it all-
had quaffed deep draughts of the bitter
waters of Marah, was again arrayed in her
bridal robes, but this time, she was the
bride of death. I well remember when
the first consciousness of her husband's cold-
ness and neglect began to dawn upon her.
She said no word uttered no complaint; but
the sweet face grew thin and pale, the
sweet blue eyes inexpressibly sad. Night
upon night she would sit alone watching
and waiting. Carriage after carriage would
roll by; sometimes one would stop and
then she would listen with intense eager-
ness expecting ever moment to hear his
step in the hall and then to see him enter
the room with his usual careless grace.
One night he came home even later than
usual had lost heavily at cards and had
been drinking. His wife was weeping
when he entered teh room. She was but a
girl in years, far away from relatives and
near friends and her "hour of trial" fast
approaching. To night a sense of utter
desolation, of intense loneliness seemed to
shut out every ray of light, of comfort.
Not one single glimmer pierced the black-
ness of the louds that were fast closing
about her. Vain were my attempts at
cousolation. Vain were the bright pictures
of a happy future with her babe. She
would only repeat in a weary despondent 
voice that spoke of bitter unshed tears. 

[Column 3]
	"You are very kind, dear friend and
mean well, but you do not understand. I
cannot tell you why or how but I know
life is over for me; and I am so tired, so tired,
that I am glad of it."
	As her husband entered the room he
laughed scornfully at her tears. For once
she made no effort to hide her grief. What
need? Had he not long since stripped the
veil from their miserable existance reveal-
ing the hollow shame in all its hideousness?
Neither did she offer any explanation when
he, coarsely and with assumed ignorance,
demanded the cause of her grief; not from
any definite reason but simply from a kind
of instinct that makes the sympathetic,
sensitive nature shrink from unfolding itself
to the touch of one that it feels is neither-
because her inmost being felt that he would
hear it with an antagonism that would jar
every fibre. There are so many ways of
letting the life out of a woman's heart
already faint from disappointment; and
for some moments he tried with a drunken
man's persistence to see how far his taunts
and sneers would exasperate the woman
whom he had promised to love, honor and
cherish; her continued silence only made
him angrier and he became for the time a
maniac. The face he turned round upon
her, the eyes blazing with wrath, the
cheeks pale with passion, the lips set was a
fearful face as he staggered to where his
wife stood; and placing both hands on her
shoulders he shook her roughly as he hissed
into her trembling ear these brutal words-
"You're a nice wife for a man to have!
always going around with a long, white
face to make people think you're an abused
woman. Bah! I tell you what it is Alice,
I'm just about sick of your whining and
crying and don't want any more of it.
Do you hear? I shall stay out just as late
as I want to and just as often; so you may
as well make the best of it. Why, there
were at least sixty men at the club to night; 
most of them married, and do you think
their wives sat up and met them with tears
and long faces? No, by—! and from
now, on, I want no more of it. Remember
that, will you?" And with another final
and emphatic shake he pushed her roughly
from him. Too much intoxicated to fully
realize what he was doing he was not aware
of the brutal force he used and neither of
them observing a footstool that stood near,
Alice fell over it striking her head heavily
against a chair before reaching the floor,
murmuring faintly, "Oh Charlie how could
you, when I loved you so?" She sank in-
to unconciousness. They were the last
words she ever spoke. For days she re-
mained unconscious and then the end came.
Never shall I forget the expression of
peaceful content that settled on the beauti-
ful face. Surely she had found rest and
the peace that passeth all understanding.
Of course, Charlie was very penitent and
apparently remorse—stricken for a time;
but yesterday I read in an eastern paper
that Charlie M. or as he was more familiar-
ly known ‘‘Bonnie Prince Charlie” was
about to lead to the Altar the beautiful
daughter of one of New York's richest
men. I wonder if Alice knows—or cares.
	S.E. L.


THE Isle of Man legislature has just en-
acted that duly qualified women shall, in
future, vote for the election to the House
of Keys, thus following, on more limited
lines, the example of New Zealand.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.	-
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as econd class matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY, 			DECEMBER 1, 1893.


[Column 1]
	A FEW SUGGESTIONS.
	
	THERE has been considerable agitation
on the Woman Suffrage subject in the Ter-
ritory of late, and there is likely to be more
in view of the prospect that we are perhaps
soon to have statehood, when it is firmly
believed and ardently desired by a large
majority of women citizens, that the ballot
so unjustly taken from those to whom it
had been given under the laws of the Ter-
ritory will be restored, with all the rights
and privileges pertaining thereto, making
men and women equal before the law.
	Because women are eligible to office does
not constitute them office-holders though
one might think it really did, listening to
the arguments brought to bear against it.
it is not such an easy matter for even men
to get a nomination, and after that to get
sufficient votes to elect them. Judging
from what we know of women they would
be much more likely to nominate a man, a
good man of course, and vote for him,
than one of their own sex consequently
women are in no danger of being elected
to any office for a long time to come. But
we hope and trust the agitation of these
political questions will continue, par- 
ticularly as it is decidedly educational in its
tendency, and that is what is needed. The
women of this Territory married and
single, should try to become somewhat
familiar with the laws of Utah, and the
political conditions as well, and not neglect
the Constitution and Declaration of In-
dependence which are really the foundation
on which the civil and judicial government
of the country is built. The laws affecting
women and their rights should be investi-
gated by them and see where they stand,
and determine in their own minds whether
they are satisfied with such a status or not;
Not accept things for granted without
knowing for themselves and like the wo-
man who had all the rights she wanted on
hearing that in her state a husband might
bequeathe his children away from the
mother, became very indignant and ex-
claimed “Why do not all the mothers cry
out against such a law?” The answer
given her was in part “People who do not
vote pay no attention to the laws until they
suffer from them.” The actual text of the
law was this.
	“Every person authorized by law to make a
will, except married women, shall have a right to
appoint by his will a guardian or guardians for
his children during their minority.”
	There is not in the statute the slightest
clause in favor of the mother, nor any

[Column 2]
limit to the power of the guardian, nor
any word of positive law to protect the
mother.
	We simply refer to this to show how lit-
tle women have been considered in legisla-
ting in the past. The time has come how-
ever when the higher education of women
has brought about many radical changes,
and many more are needed for the benefit
of both men and women, and it is our opinion
that the womanly and more humane element
if given expression at the ballot box and
eventually in the councils of the nation,
will have a salutary effect. Preparatory
work is always necessary in any important
undertaking and therefore we earnestly ad-
vise the women of Utah to study
systmatically, or until they adopt some
method converse together on political mat-
ters in their own locality, town, city or
county.
	In some of the counties during the past
two years very creditable work has been
done in clubs and in classes under the
auspices of the county or ward organiza-
tions. Do not be discouraged because only
a few will take hold, it is the few who scat-
ter the seed for the many. The farmer sows
a small quantity of seed grain, but he reaps
a large harvest, and that harvest feeds a
hungry multitude.
	In another issue of this paper will ap-
pear some items of the Conventions held
in Rich, Utah and Davis counties also
the meetings in Spanish Fork and Spring-
ville which were very interesting indeed.
At Spanish Fork the W. S. A. had a
sumptuous dinner prepared for all the
members of the Association in that flourish-
ing town, numbering if we recollect rightly,
one hundred and ten besides invited guests,
several from Provo, and from Salt Lake.
Mesdames Wells arid Richards Territorial
officers. At Springville the meeting was
exceedingly interesting; there were three
gentlemen on the program, the Mayor of
the City, the editor of the Springville
Independent and Mr. W. H. Kelsey of that
place. The President Mrs. S. A. Boyer
is a very enthusiastic worker in the cause
and has kept the association up to a high
standard notwithstanding many discourage-
ments and indifference which are always
hard to battle with.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake of Zion will be held
in the Fourteenth ward assembly rooms, in
this city, on Friday, Dec. 15th, 1893, meet-
ings commencing at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m.
as usual. As this is an important time
and there is much need of relief among the
poeple in the several wards, it is ardently
desired by the presiding officers of the
society that there should be represent-
atives from each branch present to hear the 
instruction that is likely to be given in
reference to the care of the needy that there
may be no suffering among the people that
can he avoided. A cordial invitation is al-
so extended to all interested in this benevo-
lent work, and especially to the Presidency
of the Church, the presiding Bishops, the 
presidency of this Stake of Zion and the
Bishops of the several wards.
	WE had the pleasure recently of attending
the opening of Miss Maud May Babcock’s
School of Delsarte and Physical Culture in
the Social Hall in this City and of meeting
there her brother Dr W. W. Babcock, who

[Column 2]
in addition to assisting his sister in the
institution is also Resident Physician at St.
Mark’s New Hospital. During the exer-
cises on that occasion Dr. Babcock gave an
interesting talk, explaining, first a history
of the work of physical culture etc. from
the Greek period down, then took up the
work physiologically—the different systems,
physical examinations extant which
would be the basis of all the work—Miss.
Babcock also treated upon this and described
the apparatus which is all new and the
latest patents—1st, mentioned the pulley
weight system first discovered by Dr. D. A.
Sargent, now of Harvard University, th s
system covers about one hundred and fifty
different appliances, of which what is com-
monly know as the chest weight is most
important. These appliances are especially
useful as being adapted to the weakness of
the weak, and the strength of the strong,
and are essentially important, as they can be
used for the development and strength of
particular groups of muscles they have the
rowing machine, chest weight, bridle
stirrup and quarter circle; they have also
full Germam apparatus for German work,
horizontal and vaulting bar, traveling rings,
flying rings, small and large horizontal
parallel bars. Indian Clubs, iron and
wooden dumb bells, wands and rings in the
Swedish work they use all free-hand
gymnastics, except the climbing rope, be-
cause they consider that the most important,
the apparatus work being only accessory of
the measuring appliances, a complete anthro
pometric. Miss Babcock is assisted by Miss
Belle Salmon and Miss Mae Taylor both well
known in this City, and both attended the
summer school at Harvard this year. The
dressing rooms in the building are fitted up
entirely new, bath room has hot and cold
water (entirely new floor in the main hall)
platform nicely fitted up for office and elo-
cution work. On the evening of the open-
ing Miss Babcock recited “King Robert of
Sicily’’ with music by Miss Kate Romney,
Miss Mary Romney rendered a sweet selec-
tion her exquisite voice telling particularly
well on the high notes, and Mr. Hugh
Dougall gave “The Holy City.’’ He
certainly has a magnificent voice and gives
fine expression to the language of the song.
Miss Babcock’s terms of tuition are
reasonable.


THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.
	ON the 20th of November a very success-
ful party, a sort of ovation was given to
President M. Isabella Horne by a com-
mittee of ladies’ and the officers of the
branches of the Relief Society in Salt Lake
County, it was the seventy-fifth anniver-
sary of her birthday. Mrs Horne has lived
three quarters of a century and merits by
her faithfulness and endeavors for good, in
the interests of the women of the Territory
and of the Church, the utmost honor and
appreciation of those with whom she has
labored so long and diligently.
	The party was held in the 14th, Ward
Assembly Rooms in the afternoon. The
room was decorated with flags and banners,
a handsome carpet and easy chairs in the
centre of the hall, and on the stand and
platform were beautiful flowering plants
and palms and a large century plant fresh
from the green house, besides bouquets in
vases artistically arranged, and to
Mrs. Horne it was a perfect surprise until
about noon of the day; her family however
were aware of the preparations that were


[column 1]
in progress, and of course joined with the
sisters in the celebration. The one draw-
back to the pleasure of all was the absence
of Brother Horne, who was really not well
enough to be present.
	The house was well filled with dear
friends and fellow-laborers, the First Presi-
dency of the Church seated upon the stand,
also President Lorenzo Snow, Apostle
Franklin D. Richards and Heber J. Grant,
the Presiding Bishops of the Church, Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon, Counselor C. W.
Penrose, Bishop George H. Taylor and
some other brethren, occupied seats of hon-
or, but the company were mostly ladies.
	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor Counselor to
President M. I. Horne in the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion, presided during the
exercises and took charge of the program,
Mrs. Helen M. Whitney the other Counse-
lor was not able to attend, which was much
regretted. President Zina D. H. Young
and her Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith were in attendance,
and many other representitive women.
	Sister Taylor made a few appropriate re-
marks greeting the assembly of her friends
and congratulating Sister Horne in a grace-
ful way.
	The exercises opened with prayer by
President Joseph F. Smith, and singing “O,
my Father”.
	After which President Wilford Wood-
ruff addressed the assembly. He stated
that he never felt able to express his
thoughts in words when gathered among
the Saints of God, congratulated Sister
Horne and alluded to the many pleasant
associations with both Brother and Sister
Horne; “when he looked upon this assembly
especially the aged, he was glad some of
the Saints had lived to carry out the work,
while others had passed behind the vail, no
more interesting generation could have
been or ever had been; no greater dispen-
sation in fact than this one has ever been,
we have great blessings,’’again congratula-
ted Sister Horne on this day, her labors
had been great, while he said this of her,
he said it of others, the gathering called
to his mind the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum
and Brigham and John Taylor; referred to
his labors with them, and the coming of
the pioneers into this valley, recalled the
words of President Young when he came
into the valley, here he said we shall build
a Temple in Zion, said God bless Sister
Horne and her husband; and her children
will follow in their footsteps, thanked the
Lord that a mighty army of people, sons
and daughters was being raised up through
the principles of the order of God, blest the
assembly etc., the remarks of the President
were especially inspiring to all assembled
and will ever be treasured to encourage
those who are laboring in the Relief Society
in which he has always manifested the
deepest interest.
	President Zina D. H. Young after ad-
dressing herself to the First Presidency up-
on the stand and the President of the
meeting, heartily congratulated Sister
Horne, and rejoiced with her in the many
blessings the sisters had enjoyed; referred
to the day when Joseph the Prophet was
taken from us as the darkest day we had
ever seen, but while he was with the
people he had poured out blessings upon
blessings, revealed many things, turned the
key of knowledge, and opened up the
channel of communication with the hea-
vens. Sister Young was thankful to see so

[column 2]
many familiar faces, those who were en-
gaged in labors of love.
	President George Q. Cannon, appreciated
this opportunity very much, thought how-
delightful it would be if all our aged
brethren and sisters could have their birth-
days remembered, spoke of the hall as a
historic building, where many social parties
and reunions had been given; since coming
into the room many memories had crowded
into his mind,'some were pleasant others
were sorrowful, he had danced there more
than once and would like to again, if there
was an opportunity, Sister Horne he re-
membered used to be a very good dancer
and was now probably did not think she
had lost it all, thought our people did not
grow old as fast as some others, and re-
ferred to President Woodruff, Sister Horne
and President Snow, who seemed so young
and well-preserved. Alluded to his boy-
hood and association with Brother and
Sister Horne when they came to the valley
together also President Taylor’s family the
intimacy that existed between the two
families and gave some interesting incidents
of experience in those times; quoted Heber
C. Kimball’s remark concerning respect for
the aged when he said the Lord had more
respect for us than we had for one another,
the Lord had said “My aged servant
Joseph Smith,” (meaning Joseph Smith Sen.
father of the Prophet.) President Cannon
then commented upon the wonderful strides
the sisters had made the last few years,
bringing them forward before the public,
into spheres of usefulness, that opened be-
fore them, he then turned and address-
ing President Woodruff, said, it was one
of the things that impressed him very
greatly, he was pleased to see Sister Horne
take a leading part, an active part side by side
with others in this grand movement for the
elevation and enfranchisement of her sex,
was thankful she had lived to take so
prominent a part in the work for women,
“but you are His servants though you may
not bear the priesthood as we do, and yet
your spheres are enlarged and there is no
limit to your advancement,” felt to bless
Sister Horne whose birthday anniversary
we were celebrating, her husband and their
posterity, Brother Horne was a man faith-
ful and true and God would bless them and
their posterity after them.


WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

HISTORICAL SKETCH.

(Of the life of Mrs. M. Isabella Horne.)

	ON this eventful day the Seventy Fifth
anniversary of the birth of our beloved
President, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, my
memory goes back over the vista of years
and I think of her as I first knew her. Al-
ways a faithful friend, a true saint, and a
steadfast, worker in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latterday Saints.
	President Horne had the honor of be-
longing to the Relief Society in Nauvoo,
which was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and had the  unspeakable pleasure
of listening to the melody of his voice,
giving instruction to the daughters of Zion,
he having turned the key for the redemption
of woman. Since that day she has had
the privilege of seeing her sister woman,
gradually climb upward and onward, un-
til now she holds a position of honor, by
the side of her brother man. Long and
oft has this friend of woman, raised her
voice in exhortation, instruction and love,
to her sisters, many of whom can testify,

[Column 2]
that from her lips has fallen the soft Words
that first caused them to think, and
inspired in them the desire to reach out to
more glorious possibilities of intelligence
and progress. Her instructions to maid
wife and mother, explaining the mission of
woman, in bearing the souls of men, her
duties to them, her home and her husband,
are beyond price. And may she yet live to
see all her desires in this respect fulfilled.
	When the Relief Society was reorganized
in these valleys after the move South in
1858, Mrs. Horne was chosen by Bishop A.
Hoagland, to preside over the Society in
the 14th, Ward. This occured on Dec. 12,
1867. Under her wise management the
Society prospered. The poor were relieved,
the distressed comforted, and yet means
gathered up in the treasury. After a time
the building known as “The Relief Society
Hall,” was erected. A granary and a
quantity of wheat was next added, and
blessings attended all the efforts of the
sisters.
	President Brigham Young, having great
confidence, in President Horne, placed on
her another important mission in the latter
part of the year 1869. This was known as
the Retrenchment movement. A meeting
was called in the 15th, Ward Relief Society
Hall—President Young met with and in-
structed the sisters in their duties in this
respect and many blessings were promised
them in their labors. This meeting was
adjourned to the 14th, Ward Assembly
Hall, where an organization was effected,
with Sister M. I. Horne as President with
Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Margaret T. Smoot,
Phebe W. Woodruff, Marinda W. Hyde
and Sarah M. Kimball as Counselors.
Lydia D. Alder was chosen as Secretary.
	Out of this organization, grew the 
regular Semi-monthly meetings of today
which have been held in the 14th Ward,
regularly ever since.
	President M. I. Horne was appointed to
preside over the Relief Society of this Stake
of Zion, Dec. 1877.
	In the month of November 1890, Pres’t.
Horne was elected President of the board,
of directors of the Woman’s Co-op store,
all of which positions she holds at the
present time, except that of President of
the Relief Society of the 14th, Ward, she
having resigned the position, and since
moved to the 18th, Ward.
	May her days be lengthened, that she-
may realize all her righteous desires, then
when her tired feet shall rest in the Golden 
City, may she enjoy the reward of the true
and faithful.


Affectionately Inscribed to Mrs. M . Horne on.
her Seventy Fifth Birthday.

How beautiful the sinking sun
	Sets in the darkening West;
’Mid fiery clouds of red and gold  
	it slowly goes to rest.
The day has been a weary one,
	Mayhap so full of care—
Now soothingly the shadows fall,
	And rest breathes everywhere.
The morn was full of promise—
	The noon the battle brought,
The evening is so glorious—
	With blessings ever fraught.
So life goes down at even
	Like to the setting sun—
The day of battle over—
		The laurels fairly won.


Then comes the bright to-morrow
	The sun shines forth again— 
Earth’s children rise to labor, 
	Their blessings to obtain,
And on life’s fair to-morrow
	The great Millennial day, 
May we all meet in Heaven
	Whence none will ever stray.
But with the blest Redeemer,
	And Father good and true
May we walk the fields Elysian 
	Each beauty ever new.
Loved sister, friend and mother 
	May we who’ve sought on earth
To live the life Celestial
	Receive a Heavenly birth.
Lovingly,
	LYDIA D. ALDER


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, sang with
fine expression and in clear “melodious
voice that beautiful song, “In Old Madrid,”
which was thoroughly appreciated by all
present. Prof. Clive kindly consented to
play the accompaniment, though he could not
stay to enjoy the company afterwards.


[Column 1]

M. I. HORNE’S SEVENTY-FIFTH
BIRTHDAY NOV. 20, 1893.

	"THE aged woman likewise, that they
be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not
false accusers, not given to much wine, 
teachers of good things;
	"That they may teach the young women
to be sober, to love their husbands, to love
their children,
	"To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home,
good, obedient to their own husbands, that
the word of God be not blasphemed."
Titus, chapt. 2, verses 3, 4, and 5.

Thus anciently, were holy women taught,
	By Christ’s Apostles, great, inspired men;
Today are glimpses of those lessons taught;
	Apostles, Prophets teach the same again.
In this last time, now more than fifty years
	Hath woman’s true position been defined
By God’s appointed servants, Prophets, Seers,
	And Revelators of His will and mind.
How can we praise our Father, God, enough,
	For blessing us with this grand sisterhood?
To aid each other when the way is rough,
	To find no pleasure but in doing good.
To love and help our husbands on in life;
	To love and teach our children righteousness;
None to accuse, make peace instead of strife;
	True women everywhere, no more, no less.
Making each home the dearest, happiest place,
	Kin to the Heavenl homes we seek above;
That every child may sweetest lessons trace,
	From father’s counsel kind, and mother’s love.
I mentioned fifty years, How few remain
	Of that first organized Relief Society,
To whom the Prophet, Joseph Smith, made plain,
	Their place and how to fill it with propriety.\
One of those few, today is Seventy-five;
	Again, our Father, God, thy name we praise.
That Mary Isabella Horne is yet alive,
	With pow’r among us still her voice to raise.
How often that dear voice to us imparts
	Lessons of wisdom for our home affairs,
Teaching us how to touch our children’s hearts,
	And make them partners in our household
	cares.
With Zina, Bathsheba, and other few,
	Teaching the younger women holy truths,

[Column 2]
Which Joseph taught at Kirtland and Nauvoo,
	Sweet lessons’ which the wearied being soothes
For one, I often wish that I could be
	The maker of a home like Sister Horne’s;
So orderly, from envious strife so free.
	Like a bright bed of roses with no thorns.
Yet, time has been when thorns her heart did
	pierce,
And noxious weeds grew round her, tall and
	thick;
And storms have beaten on her, cold  and fierce,
	Calling for vig’rous action, brave and quick.
How is it, thorns and weeds are cleared away
	Clouds have dispersed, the blast’s wild voice,
	is dumb?
She simply learned God’s mandates to obey,
	Has triumphed, and those ills are overcome.
’Tis good, with Sister Horne to celebrate
	This Anniversary of her blessed birth;
The victories she has gained to contemplate,
	Her lessons to recall, of priceless worth.
And then, to forward look, into that realm
	Of many mansions, where we hope to land;
In this life, finding nought that can o’erwhelm,
	No tests nor trials we cannot withstand.
To think, in that fair region of the blest,
	How good, how beautiful, sometime, to meet
Prsicilla, Persis. Dorcas, and the rest—
	The former Sisterhood with ours complete.
And then, I doubt not, we shall turn and say,
	We're glad that we were privileged to be
	born,
To learn and labor in this Latter-day,
	With our beloved and faithful M. I. Horne.
	L. Lula Greene Richards.


[Column 1]

A TRIBUTE.

[By Mrs. E. B. Wells.]

	IN thinking of the long life of our dearly
beloved mother in Israel whose anniversary
of three quarters of a century we celebrate
today, one scarcely knows whether to look
backward at the chapter of events so full of
interest, historical and personal, or to look
forward with prophetic gaze into the mystic
vista of the ever thrilling future, and
calculating the manifold labors so nobly
achieved foretell that which is sure to be
the positive result of the work already so
far accomplished, that the reward is near at
hand. Even now the fruits of the harvest
season are beautifully ripe,and radiant with
promise of a golden fruition. But for one
brief moment we will take a retrospective
glance. 
	In a cottage by the sea, on a chilly
November day such as this perhaps, or
mayhap in one of those dense fogs that
are common in England at this season of
the year, the news that a child was born,
"only a girl" not much thought of it those
days, would not be very thrilling, and the
mother herself could scarce have dreamed
beforehand of all that we assembled here
today are conscions of; nor did she realize
then as we do now, who have the knowledge
of the Gospel of a pre-existence, where the
little one came from so fresh and pink and
rosy or what her mission here on earth was
likely to be. How tenderly she would
have reared this little stranger had she
known but half that would  befall her, what
her destiny, her life-work, how wide her
sphere, how grand her possibilities. These
were all unkown, locked in the bosom of
mysterious nature's living drama. But to
many of us, the living panorama is un-
furled. We know how crossing the mighty

[Column 2]
ocean when only a child, she had those
wonderful experiences that come with a
sea voyage in a sailing vessel, and also the
life in a new country that is full of strange
incidents, and is of necessity partically
educational.
	Like other young women too of 
all ages and times she fell in love, hav-
ing met an interestng young farmer at a
religious gathering a camp meeting, the
friendship begun soon ripened into an
intimacy that resulted in marriage about
two years after; a union which has proved
such a complete and happy one that we see
them even today as much like lovers as
husband and wife: the golden wedding
celebrated when fifty years had passed was
a rare event and now when the frost of
four score years have come to the bride-
groom, and three quarters of a century
to the once youthful bride, we find them as
handsome and as happy in the family rela-
tion as when they first took possession of
each other, and the little farm, home  in
Canada. Yes even more so, for the olive
branches that grew one by one, and two
by two around their hearthstone, have
grown to magnificent proportions, and two
or three generations of these, now crown
the lives and cluster round the hearts of
this venerable couple, whose days have
been so full of blessing, and of good works,
and whose evening of life is so glorious
with rosy light and glowing prommise.
What shall we say, what can we say more
than this, that we who are assembled here
today sahite you—greet you as those
who after a long and adventurous voyage
upon the changeful sea of life, are safely
resting in the haven of Zion ready even
now at this ripe age, to go forward at the
call of duty whenever and wherever the
wise Father, through his servants here on
earth may designate.
	That we love this Reverend mother is
apparent, there is no need to tell her so in
words, that she merits the love of the
daughters of Zion, of the whole house of
Israel is too well known to need repeating.
and in conclusion may our sister love as a
band of women workers be always true,
and our union strong and steadfast as the
everlasting hills 'mong which we dwell,
and may we never grow weary of the
works of charity, philanthropy, and pro-
gress in which we have been so long
engaged,and one of the foremost among the
illustrious women of our age and time will
ever stand the name of her whose birthday 
anniversary we celebrate today,  MARY
ISABELLE HORNE
	President Horne explained how she had
been affected by the honors shown her and
the many expressions of love and esteem
from those who had spoke, how glad she
was to see her fellow laborers gathered there
the tried and true ones, and to be honored
with the presence of the First Presidency of
the Church, she had not the language to
express how grateful she was to her 
Heavenly Father and to her friends for this
tribute, spoke of her pleasure in laboring
with those associated in the Relief Society
and hoped to deserve all that had been said
of her and that we all might continue to
labor together or even more diligently in
the future. 
	Sister Horne seemed greatly overcome
by the many manifestations of love and 
esteem expressed on every side. 
	At the close of the exercises Mrs. Taylor
who had presided with grace and dignity
during the afternoon, thanked the audience


for their attention, the honor they had
shown by their presence, congratulated
Sister Horne, and expressed her pleasure
in being associated with her in many labors
of love and charity, and the program closed
with benediction by President Lorenzo
Snow. Daintily prepared refreshments
were served to the entire company and
general conversation and greetings were
soon followed by adieus as evening ap-
proached.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SANPETE RTAKE.
The Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the
Ephraim School House, September 22nd, 
1893. President M. A. P. Hyde presiding,
Conference opened with singing, “Lord we
come before thee now.” Opening prayer
by Bishop C. C. N. Dorius. Singing ‘‘Re-
deemer of Israel.” Statistical and
Financial report of the Relief Society of
Sanpete Stake, and the minutes of the last
conference were read and approved.
President M. A. P. Hyde hoped we
would have a time of rejoicing in our con-
ference, ‘‘Do not partake of the spirit of
the world but try and draw them to us, so
they can partake of the spirit of the Gospel
of Jesus Christ.”
The branches of the Relief Society of
Fountain Green, Moroni, Ephraim, and
Spring City were represented by their
presidents, all testifying of the good work
that is being done by the sisters.
Counselor Sarah Peterson said she
thought the sisters were doing well and did 
not think they could do any better. Spoke
at some length in regard to the storing
of wheat. Sister E. B. Wells, of Salt 
Lake City, referred to the storing of grain
and the counsel of President Young to
the sisters; also of the respect that was
shown to the Presidency of the Church in
attending the World’s Fair. Considered
the meeting held by our sisters in Chicago
and the visit of the Presidency had re-
moved a great deal of prejudice against us
as a people. Spoke in regard to the
World’s Fair. The impression that was
made on the people of the world at the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. meet-
ing s at Chicago, were very important.
Sister Elmina S. Taylor Territorial
President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt
Lake City, rejoiced in the organization of
the Relief Society. ‘‘President Young
was inspired when he told the sisters to
store up grain for a time of famine. This
is a time of progress among the women of
the world and we do not want to be behind
them. The Relief Society is a blessing
throughout the land. May the Lord bless
us, that our meetings may be full of in-
struction.” Singing ‘‘Come, come ye
Saints.” Benediction by Bishop L. S.
Anderson.
AFTERNOON SESSION:—President M. A.
P. Hyde presiding; singing ‘‘Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.”
Prayer by Bishop Anderson. Singing,
‘‘Our God we raise to thee.” The two
branches of Manti Relief Society were
represented by their presidents as being in
a good condition, Counselor Minerva W.
Snow said: ‘‘My feelings I could not des-
cribe, the joy that filled my heart to hear
from the sisters of the prosperity of Zion,
It is very encouraging to have our brethren

[Column 2]
meet with us in our conference. Let us as
sisters in Zion take no praise unto our-
selves, but be humble and give the praise
unto our Father in Heaven, be thankful
for the blessings we enjoy daily. Let us
be patient and humble in our trials and the
Lord will bless us. Zion is arising and her
light is beginning to shine. Pray to our
Heavenly Father that he will keep our sons
and daughters in purity, that they may be-
come shining lights in the Kingdom of God’’
Counselor Sarah Peterson spoke concerning
hard times but said, “I think it is a good
time for we have plenty to eat and wear.
Advised the sisters to subscribe for the
EXPONENT. Sister Taylor said the
work of the Relief Society is a great and
glorious one. It is no good for us to
belong to any association unless we perform
our duties. Do we go to the Relief Society
meetings to gossip and talk about our
neighbors and the Priesthood? No, we go
there to be taught in the gospel. The
brethren are beginning to realize that wo-
men are a help in the kingdom of God I
thank God for the faithfulness and bravery
of our sisters through their troubles and
trials. Sustain your presidents and coun-
selors by your prayers. Also Sister Zina
D. Young and her counselors.
Be good wives and mothers and watch
your children, for Satan is trying to lure
them from purity and virtue. Ask God to
help you to know your duty and to do it.
Sister Wells spoke at some length on the
Silk Industry. Advised the sisters to plant
mulberry trees and raise cocoons.
Gave a description of some of the exhibits
at the World’s Fair. Referred briefly to
the different meetings of the women at
Chicago. “It is the express wish of Sister
Young that the branches of the Relief
Society should meet twice a month at
least.”
Sister Taylor desired the brethren and
sisters to teach their children their mother
tongue, those of different nationalities.
President M. A. P. Hyde thanked the
sisters for the information that they had
given ns. Sister Mary Petersen was sus-
tained as Stake Treasurer. Conference
adjourned for three months. Singing “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
Benediction by Brother John Schofield.
MARY ANN FRANTZEN, Sec.


[Column 1]
     HUNTSVILLE WEBER CO.
	Minutes of a meeting of the Relief Society
of Huntsville Ward, held August 24th,
1892.
	There were present on the stand Apostle
F.D. Richards, Bishop David Mckay,
President Zina D. H. Young, her counselors
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith;   Jane S.
Richards; Ward President Eliza A. Tracy,
with her Counselors; Stake Secretary,
Mattie Cannon, and others.
	The object of the meeting being to re-
ceive instruction and to lay the corner stone
of a Hall for the Relief Society of this
Ward, to hold its meetings and transact its
business in.
	President Tracy called the meeting to
order when Bishop Mckay offered prayer.
	After stating the object of the meeting
President Tracy requested Sister Jane S.
Richards to address the meeting, who ex-
pressed her great pleasure at meeting with
the Saints on so interesting and important
an occasion as the laying of the corner
stone of a building for the use and benefit
of the ladies who constitute the Relief

[Column 2]
Society of Huntsville Ward. She ex-
pressed her gratification at observing a
spirit of progress that appeared to actuate
the Saints of this place, and congratulated
the Society upon their prospect of a house
in which to work, transact their business,
and hold their meetings. She also urged
the importance of carefully maintaining
united efforts, and referred to some of the
magnificent results that had already been
accomplished thereby.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said this was
her first visit to this ward, and felt very 
much pleased at the present opportunity to
make the acquaintance of her Sisters here.
Remarked how little we realized when the
Prophet Joseph first organized the Society
in Nauvoo, the vast importance which
these associations would attain to, but
time and experience has proven that God
works with His daughters, and they are
doing a great work in the midst of Israel.
	President Zina D. H. Young desired the
Spirit to guide her on this important oc-
casion. Joseph Smith said, early after the
first organization, while addressing the
Relief Society in April 1842, “You will
receive instructions through the order of
the Priesthood which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed, to
lead, guide and direct the affairs of the
Church in this last dispensation; and I now
turn the key in your behalf in the name of
the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice and
knowledge and intelligence shall flow down
from this time henceforth; this is the begin-
ning of better days to the poor and needy,
who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth
blessings on your heads.” Let me say to
all who look upon these associations as idle
gossip, I bear my testimony before you that
God is with his daughters; and to you my
dear brethren, be interested, for there is a
great blessing in this work. Assist the
sisters in their work of righteousness and
their blessings will all be shared by you,
and they will be encouraged to press for-
ward in their good work, and labor of love
to the needy.
	Apostle F. D. Richards said: we must
keep in mind that we are engaged in the
Lord's work. The 25,000 members of the
Relief Society in the Church are doing an
indescribable amount of good in their
various wards. Their Bishops realize their
mighty help, as well as the needy who re-
ceive their kindly aid. All this is part and
parcel of the work of the Lord. The
Presidency in their late visit to the Society
in Ogden expressed their approval of the
societies erecting houses in which to meet,
instruct each other and their daughters in
all things pertaining to life and health that
human suffering may be diminished and a
greater longevity attained,as well as do their
current business and perform their works
of charity. He extended his remarks con-
cerning the duty of the Society, and the
necessity of a house for them to occupy,
and expressed his pleasure at the earnest-
ness with which the people here had un-
dertaken this work. We must persevere
and progress or the work of God will
advance and leave us behind.
	Sister Richards spoke furthur of the
house, and was happy to hear of the inter-
est felt by the young ladies of the Improve-
ment Association in helping their mothers
of the Relief Society, to accomplish its
erection. Said they would live to see the
day when they would praise the Lord for
the course they had taken.
	Bishop McKay and others addressed


meeting with remarks appropriate and im-
portant to the occasion; when the people
repaired to a lot on a block west of the
Tabernacle, where the new building is to
be erected, and where master mason L. M.
Christiansen had all things ready for the
ceremony.
	After Singing and prayer an enclosure,
containing a record of the Society’s work
from its commencement, with names of its
officers and of the Bishopric, No. 5 of
Deseret News, Juvenile Instructor, WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT and Young Woman’s
Journal, was deposited.
	When the authorities present proceeded
to place the South East Corner Stone of
the Rellef Society’s Hall of Huntsville
Ward in position, and declared it was now
laid. The blessing of God was invoked
upon all who shall assist in its erection and
that the way may speedily be opened
whereby the necessary means may be ob-
tained for its accomplishment, which was
responded to with a hearty Amen.
	President Zina D. H. Young and Coun-
selor Bathsheba W. Smith spoke in a very
loving, kind, and energetic manner, feel-
ing fully assured the sisters would never
regret the noble effort they were now mak-
ing to obtain a house of their own.
	Several persons present donated various
sums of money towards the erection of the
building, and the interesting proceedings
were concluded with pleasure and gratitude
that will long be remembered by the good
people of Huntsville, and their visitors
present.
				 ELIZA A. TRACY, President. 
				EMMA BURROWS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HEALTH FOR WOMEN
	THE Viavi Home Treatment is a certain
cure for all female diseases and uterine
troubles. It has cured thousands of wo-
men who have despaired of ever getting
relief. The treatment is applied by the
patient herself, causes no inconvenience
and is absolutely safe and reliable—Cor-
respondence solicited. For full particulars
address Dr. E. B. Ferguson 121 B. Street
Salt Lake City.


CHRISTMAS NUT CAKE—Cream together
two cupfuls of sifted white sugar and half a
cupful of butter. Add the yolks of three
eggs, one cupful of sweet milk, three cup-
fuls of sifted flour and three teaspoonfuls
of baking powder. Stir into the beaten
whites of three eggs one cupful of blanched
and chopped nuts; add to the batter and
bake in small tins. Ice with vanilla icing.


A LETTER TO THE LADIES.

	FOR three years I have suffered pain and misery
in ailment peculiar to our sex. I have been
treated by some of the best physicians of this
city without material results. I took one treat-
ment of DR. DE JOZA’s prescription, and to my
surprise and pleasure, was able to be up working
and hav e been free from pain and other incon-
veniences. Being so pleased with the results I
have consented to give this testimonial and also
recommend it to my lady friends and all others
who so much need it.
	Very truly yours,
	PHEBE I. ALLRED.
Mrs. Allre[---] well known lady of Salt Lake
City. Her [---]ress will be given to any lady who
will write or call at our office. Also other
testimonials at your service. One trial treat-
ment, $2.00. All orders must be sent to the
Lady Managers SALT LAKE MEDICINE CO., 56
West, Second South St., Room 2.”


OBITUARIES.

	CENTER WARD—Has had a shadow of gloom
cast over it by the sudden demise of one of our
number, Maria Ann Simmons who departed this
life, Oct. 24, 1893 of typhoid fever, and leaves a
husband and six small children to mourn her loss,
she was a Relief Society Teacher, and always
ready to do her duties in all her callings. She was
born in Coney Heath Hatfield Hearts England,
Sep, 25th, 1855; and was baptized July 24 1865 by
by William D. Owen at Chamberwell, London.
Emigrated to Utah in the fall of 1881. May she
rest in peace.
			MARY A. WHITTAKER, Sec.
			BETSY G. WHITTAKER, Pres’t.

Dear Sister Wells:
	IT is my painful duty to inform you of the death
of our beloved President, Elizabeth Richards wife
of the late Silas Richards and daughter of Elijah
and Elizabeth McClenahan born June 12, 1809
in Kentucky. She departed this life after one
weeks severe suffering on Nov. 22nd, 1893 at the
residence of her daughter Mrs. Lucy A. Brady.
In 1846, she received her blessings in the Nauvoo
Temple and shared in the persecutions of the
Saints in being driven from their homes in that
city and arrived in Kanesville on the 24th, of
June in the same year remaining there ’till 1849.
	In 1847 when the pioneers returned to Winter
Quarters and a log Tabernacle was built, at
Kanesville Sister Richards fed and lodged thirty
of them for several days and it was at this time and
place where Brother Brigham Young was voted
in as President of the Church.
	Heber C. Kimball prophecied then that Sister
Richards and her family should never want bread
a prediction which has been literally fulfilled up
to this time.
	Sister Richards was a woman of nerve and
ndependence, she drove a team the entire dis-
tance across the plains from Nauvoo to Salt Lake
City she left Kanesville with her husband who
was Captain of one of the companies and her
family on July 10th, 1849 and arrived in Salt Lake
City on Oct,23rd of the same year, she was one
of the oldest settlers of Union, also President of
the Union district South Cottonwood ward for
eight years in the Relief Society, and in the
organization of the Union ward in 1877, she was
appointed to preside over the Union Ward
Relief Society on Aug. 8th, of that year and held
that position when she died, her health has been
feeble for the last two or three years, but she al-
ways had a good word of counsel to give to all.
All that loving hands could do was done for her,
which she very much appreciated.
	She was the mother of six children, twenty-two
grand children and forty-nine great grand
children. The funeral was largely attended, the
speakers were Bishop Joseph S. Rawlins, John
Sharp, Charles Denney and Bishop Ishmael
Phillips, all testified to her upright character and
her devotion to the work of God.
	Through the fiery ordeals of Illinois she passed
with no shelter, oft exposed to the cold wintry
blast yet never did she utter a word of regret at
joining so despised and persecuted a people.

To the celestial law through Joseph revealed,
	This our dear sister, obedience did yield;
To trials exempt thro’ which many have fell,
	She kept the covenant, and with her all is well.
A President, Counselor and a mother in need,
	To the sisters of Union, for years she has been;
Long, long remembered by many she’ll be;
	As they are tossed to and fro’ on life’s trouble-
		some sea.
						M. A. SMART, Sec’y.


MISS GRACE J. HAYNES, formerly a
teacher in Lawrence, Mass., has been elect-
ed principal of Olivet College, Olivet,
Mich.
	CHICAGO has thirty police matrons, with
a head matron over all. They have cared
for 35,119 women and girls during the
past year.
	NEARLY 11,000 women have registered
in Boston for school suffrage, a substantial
increase over last year.
	A VERY successful conference of women
workers was held at Leeds, on the 7th and
8th of November. Papers were read by
Lady Frederick Cavendish on the “The


Housing of the Poor;” by Mrs. Alfred
Ashe on "Health Teaching in Towns;" and
by Miss Hetty Jones on ‘‘The Condition of
Life in Houses of Business.” Many other
useful and practical subjects were discussed.
	A MAN cannot be truly eloquent if he
knows not how to listen.


A Card
	to the Ladies!
DEAR LADY: If you are troubled with painful
and irregular periods take Dr. de Joza's World-
renowned Prescription. We give written guaran- 
tee to permanently cure in two treatments or re-
fund money. Price for one trial treatment $2.00.
Write or call on Lady Manager.
SALT LAKE MEDICINE CO.,
5G West Second South St.,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Patients unsuccessfully treated or imposed up-
on by others especially invited to call.

CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR’S
		HOLIDAYS.
	Excursions via Union Pacific.

For the Holidays the Union Pacific will sell
excursion tickets at rate of one fare for the
round trip to any point in Utah, also to any
point on the Union Pacific System outside of
Utah within distance of 250 miles, and to all
points in Colorado.
	Tickets to be sold Dec. 23, 24, 25, 30, 31
and Jan. 1, good for return until Jan. 4. Tick-
ets sold to Colorado points will be good for
return until Jan. 15.
	
	THE VIAVI OFFICES 
Are removed to the Ricketts Block—
Corner State and 3rd, South Sts. Salt
Lake City. Suffering women will do well 
to investigate this remedy, as it is fully
proven to be a cure for diseases of wo-
men. Send for a Health Book.

DUNFORD’S
Have the Cheapest and Best Lines of
SHOES and SLIPPERS
	in the City.
New Store.         57 S. Main St.

	R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
	Cash House
R.K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
	Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS 
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

Vol. 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1893, AND JANUARY 1, 1894. NO 10.


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. To the Sisters—
Z. D. H. Young. U. W. P. Club—Gladys Wood-
mansee. Reorganization. Relief Society Con
ference. Semi-monthly Meeting—Lydia D.
Alder. Woman’s Suffrage Column. Hon. C. W. 
Penrose. Utah W. S. A.—E. J. Davis Co. W. S.
A. National-American Convention. Another
Relief Society—Alice J. Harker. Primary
Annual—E. W. H. Wayne Stake—Florence M.
Williams. In Memoriam.
	EDITORIAL.—To our Patrons and Agents. A
Happy New Year. Christmas-tide.
	POETRY.—Christmas Musings—E. R. Shipp.
Sympathy’s Offering—Emily H. Woodmansee.
Summerland—C. L. W.


CHRISTMAS MUSINGS.

‘Twas Christmas eve the full grown moon
	O'er spread the earth with lucent light,
Radiant stars made all around
	Emit the rays of diamonds bright.
The air was cold, and sharp, and keen,
	And glistened with its silver sheen!
The snow was crisp, and fairly creaked
	Beneath the many moving feet.
The streets were thronged with grave and gay,
	The rich and poor together there,
The sunny-haired, the head of grey,
	Alike the brilliant scene did share.
	For art her beauties well displayed.
With charms enhanced by nature's aid;
	The peasant with his elbows bare
Jostling near the millionaire.
To watch the faces of the crowd
	Was study for an artist’s pen—
With voice subdued, or accent loud,
	Of children small, or stalwart men,
All pushing, crowding, struggling by—
	With gladsome laugh, or stifling sigh—
Each pressing on to reach some goal
	As haven for the anxious soul.
How beat these human hearts tonight?
	When every one should feel good cheer,
Do all bid sorrow take its flight?
	And throw aside each doubt and fear,
Or, are there some amid the throng
	Whose pleasures never tarry long?
Who, even at this Christmas tide,
	Have food, and warmth, and love denied?
Hark! list! we hear the tinkling bells
	Of Santa Claus upon the road!
What winsome joys their music tells!
	But pause—suppose we jump aboard
And take a little trip around,
	And with him see what can be found;
To view the world in varying phase,
	As seen by Santa's generous gaze.
We see the stately tow'ring walls
	Of wealthy homes on every hand,
Where festive music fills the halls,
	And luxury is at command:
Where Christmas bring increased delight
	Wlth all that tempts the taste and sight
Friends fondly vieing to impart
	The greatest joys to otheer hears.
In all their lives they've never known
	The dreaded pangs of cold or want,
Stranger to the sufferers groan,
	And poverty so grim and gaunt,
Then how should they be thought to know

[Column 2]
	The tithe of pain and want and woe,
That those less fortunate than they
	Are doomed to feel by night and day.
They see that Santa’s well supplied
	With varied and ample store;
Their darlings must not be denied,
	Their stockings must be brimming o,er
With all that youthful hearts could ask.
	Sure Santa's is a pleasing task!
With lavish hand they freely give
	When gifts are needed not to live.
Kind Santa Claus' unselfish heart
	Would fain be just and true to all.
He'd gifts alike to all impart—
	To rich and poor, to great and small.
But he is but an agent here
	To visit little children dear,
To give what others have decreed;
	Which often seems unjust indeed.
And this is why this Christmas-eve
	The lowly homes and hovels bare
Such poor and scanty gifts receive,
	And have so little love and care,
Why little children vainly sigh—
	When Merry Christmas, time draws nigh
To have their stockings brimming o’er
	With sweetmeats, and with gifts a score. 
O! could we but invest with power
	The Santa Claus of every home—
That henceforth from this very hour—
	In justice to each home to come;
That ev’ry little fluttering heart
	Might feel it had its ample part,
Nor wonder why the girls and boys
	Of other homes should have more toys.
As echoes by a master woke
	Reverberate in sweetest time,
Oh! Father ope with one great stroke
	The spring of human love sublime.
Oh make us feel as thou didst, when
	Thou gavest thy son to die for men;
That we may celebrate His birth
	With peace, good will, to all on earth.
	E. R. SHIPP.


SYMPATHY’S OFFERING.

	[To the bereaved family of Brother C. R.
Savage—in memory of his beloved wife the late
Mrs. Annie A. Savage who was for many years the
true friend of the Author.]
		EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.

A loyal friend, most worthy of respect;
	A faithful wife, a mother true and fond,
A gentle women, one of God’s “Elect”—
	Has left us for the bright and blest “Beyond.”
No more on earth, we’ll see her genial face—
	The index of her soul’s unconscious grace.
Her’s was the charm of friendly earnestness,
	Above formality, or proud display;
Her ready hand, full oft relieved distress—
	But never in an ostentatious way;
Sweet sympathy, and modest worth combined—
To form a nature lovable and kind.
Fate, fitted her with qualities to share—
	A pleasant home, with all “the Boon” implies,
Whose generous tone, reveals the father’s care,
	The children’s tasks, the mother’s forethought,
	wise,
Alas! where mutual love held gentle sway,


The household Queen is sadly missed today.

’Tis well, 'tis well when true companions go,
	If ne’er we grieved them, with intent unkind,
'Tis well, when, howsoever deep our woe,
	No stinging self-reproach distracts our mind,
’Tis well, when keen remorse, is out of place,
	So happily as in this special case.

Our friend received and loved the Gospel light,
	And prized the comfort that it truly brings,
Her spirit was refreshed e’en day and night
	With ‘‘living water” from celestial springs.
Her hope was like an anchor strong and sure 
Grounded on truth! eternal and secure.

Faith! was her friend, when sickness lingered
		near,
	And left its impress on her features pale;
Consoling faith! still whispered words of cheer
	And led her safely through the shadowy vale.
Sustained her through the spectre-haunted night,
That ushers in the dawn of “Endless Light!”

We would not selfishly recall her, yet
	Fond hearts are thrilled with human grief and
		pain,
Fond hearts are full of unexpressed regret— 
	Of old time friends, so very few remain,
Lo! one by one, they’re wafted from our view,
With hardly time to breathe a last adieu.

How can we fail to note, with sore dismay,
	The broken ranks of those we lov’d in youth?
Whose constancy is like a sunny ray,
	Who know us as we know ourselves forsooth.
Who while they sense our failings,not a few,
Most kindly recognize our virtues too.

Many await us on the “Distant shore”
	Who’ll gladly greet us, when life’s tasks are
		done,
Oh! happy day, that sees our conflict o’er;
	The battle fought, the victory fairly won;
Heaven grant us strength, sufficient for the fight,
	’Till with the loved ones gone we reunite.

	Salt Lake City Dec. 1893.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXXVI.

	WHEN young Lord Walton made up his
mind to work and accepted the official
position, he set about it in earnest though
he had never known the routine, of actual
employment. In this as in everything else
Dr. Bland stood by him, and gave every
encouragement possible. Lady Anna freely
forgave the past and was more hopeful of a
happy future.
	The only serious source of uneasiness 
was the failure of Dr. Bland’s health. His
wife feared the change of climate and con-
ditions had been the cause, but the good
Doctor assured her he would soon be better
and that there was no need of worry about
him, he should pull through all right; the
winter was rather trying, weather severely
cold, and snow and frost such as in England
they had never experienced. Lady Anna
needed constant attention from her cousin
for she was not strong, and had more to en-
dure than usual, and the thought of what
might transpire, were the Doctor not able to
attend upon her when needed, was a
source of uneasiness to Jane Bland. Some-


[Column 1]
times she felt as if she must ask Mr. Har-
rison to come to America and join them, 
that there might be a strong support for 
them in case of any emergency, but with 
this feeling there was always the presenti-
ment which had haunted her from  their 
first acquaintance. She knew if she wrote 
for her cousin Clair, Mr. Harrison would 
certainly accompany him, and besides 
Clair would not be the least use in any 
difficulty; he was very boyish and excellent 
company when all was prosperous, but in 
adversity he would not be able to render 
the moral support necessary. Mrs. Bland 
felt in her inmost soul some desperate trial 
was at hand, and yet there was no one to
whom she could speak of it.  While these 
impressions were so strong upon her, Lady 
Anna Walton was entirely unconcered, 
except occasionally noticing how pale and 
thin the Doctor was growing, but when-
ever she mentioned the fact to her cousin
she changed the subject, and Lady Anna felt
there could not be any danger, or her 
cousin would observe it. 
	The wardrobe of the little stranger soon 
expected occupied much of Lady Anna's 
time and thought, and her little Edward 
was growing quite interesting, and she was 
really more contented and happier than she 
had been before.  Maitland made many 
new acquaintances in his business, and as 
the men he met were mostly substantial 
enterprising men of ability and sterling 
character, his own aims in life expanded 
and his ideas changed so much that he was 
really companionable to Dr. Bland, who 
enjoyed his society and conversation and 
his friendship was a real pleasure and
satisfaction.
	The Doctor realized in part his failing 
health, and when he found his cough 
so troublesome as to keep him indoors, he 
reflected seriously as to the future; he 
hoped his wife was not aware of what he 
knew himself concerning his condition, 
and she, poor woman had the same feeling. 
It was painful to both, and yet each dreaded 
to acknowledge the sad truth. 
	And so the winter wore on, there was 
much to interest the Doctor in this new 
country, and his advice was asked by men 
in grave matters of state, as well as in his 
profession, he ranked high in the community 
was liberal in his views, and often a 
mediator between those who differed 
radically in opinions, especially of a re-
ligious character. Such men are useful 
members in any society, and in trying
times, when cummunities are being formed, 
such stalwarts are invaluable. The ad-
vantage a physician has of intimate as-
sociation with people in all conditions of 
life is highly educational in the best and 
broadest sense of the word, and Dr. Bland 
was naturally a man of superior qualities 
and attributes, and withal so modest and 
unassuming that aspiring, ambitious men
were not afraid to trust him.  He inspired 
confidence in all and his sympathies were deep and strong. 
	In the long winter evenings when his 
wife was busy with her needle if his cough 
would permit they would talk freely of the 
future of the colonies, and of their own two 
families and the Doctor dwelt much upon 
the future of their boy, cautioning his wife 
in regard to the discipline he must have to 
prepare him for life's battles.  And yet 
these two husband and wife could not 
open their hearts to each other concerning 
that which was of such vital importance. 
	When alone in his study Dr. Bland oc-
[Column 2]
cupied himself with writing out his 
thoughts and views, determined that if he 
must leave his wife and child his affairs 
should be so plainly  understood that there
could be no complications to perplex and 
distress his wife whom he loved devotedly 
and reverenced as brave and wise men ever
do when happily mated. 
	Spring came at last, though it was late 
in April before the frost and snow entirely 
disappeared, the winter had been long yet 
not unpleasant, for in many ways there had 
been true domestic enjoyment and agreeable 
social intercourse among the friends and 
neighbors.
	No news had come from over the sea ex-
cept from Maitland's mother, there were 
few near relatives, to write and Mr. Har-
rison and Clair were still wandering they 
knew not exactly where.  Some of the 
servants had letters from the vicinity of 
the old Castle, telling of vague rumors 
concerning Walton Hall and the doings of 
the Italian Count with the horrid foreign 
name, but Mrs. Bland warned the servants 
not to speak of it to her cousin, and though 
they were fond of gossip they kept it 
among themselves.  Finally news came to 
Maitland that there was a separation,
there had been an open quarrel caused by 
the Count's jealousy, and Maitland was 
wanted at Walton Hall.  It was a critical 
time for him to leave home, his wife needed 
the most tender care; the Doctor's health 
precarious, in a new country where every-
thing was so different, it was a most perp-
plexing dilemma.  His lawyers at home 
insisted upon his actual presence, and would 
take no refusal.  Mrs. Bland was a sort of 
oracle in family matters and the subject 
was referred to her for a final decision. 
   Mrs. Bland could not conscientiously 
consent to Maitland's going away until her 
cousin had passed the ordeal that was now 
very soon expected, and the new mansion 
was unfinished except a few rooms 
they had moved into and occupied during the 
winter. 
	"My cousin is too delicate at present to 
be left, wait a few months or weeks at least and 
see her made more comfortable before 
you think of going for you may be detained 
a long time, these family matters per-
taining to business and property are not 
settled hurriedly, and Maitland, if you 
should leave Anna and anything serious 
were to happen, you would never cease to 
regret it," said Mrs. Bland.
	"When I do go Jane I shall trust all to 
you, I have no one competent to take 
charge in my absence, Simpson does well 
enough when I am here to give orders, but 
Anna has no idea of managing and I can 
only depend upon your supervision. It 
seems a great deal to ask of you, and the 
Doctor so poorly, but I'll try and recom-
pense you by bringing you some luxuries 
when I come back again, such as cannot be 
obtained in America."
	"I shall do whatever is possible for my 
cousin under any circumstances, without 
expecting remuneration, it is a pleasure to 
me to be with her, and were anything to 
happen," here Mrs. Bland completely broke 
down, and Maitland was at a loss to know 
what she meant.  He could not understand, 
but was completely adrift, for he considered 
Jane a heroine equal to any emergency, and if she failed what could be done, he would not dare to go away. Mrs. Bland regained her voice in a few moments, and went on to say, that she realized her husband's condition to be serious and in view of Anna's sickness too, he needed great 
courage. "The servants are very good especially Anna's maid and the nurse you brought from Waiton Hall, but we need 
some one who has greater knowledge, and I have been looking about to secure such help, but have not succeeded."
	"I shall bring my mother to America when I return and we shall feel more settled, I will make some disposal of the 
estate, for after what has happened mother will not live at Walton Hall alone." Mrs. Bland made no reply she felt how weak 
Lady Walton would be were any real trouble to come, but could not say so to Maitland of his only near relative. Maitland assured Mrs. Bland he would remaiu until she thought proper for him to go and so matters went on as hertofore Dr. Bland improved a little as the weather grew warmer so he could ride about over the hill and visit his patients, and his wife grew more hopeful of his recovery. Maitland wrote his mother he could not leave his wife as yet, and the lawyers must pospone the business. 
	One beautiful morning in May, in the 
new mansion, a daughter was born, and for 
days after Lady Anna's life was despaired 
of; Dr. Bland watched her constantly and 
her cousin Jane never left the sick room, 
Maitland's visit to England was given up, 
or never alluded to, and throughout the 
house, all was dark and quiet, except the 
whisperers of the attendants, save when in 
her delirium the young mother talked 
hysterically, and confusedly of the old 
castle and of Walton Hall. Mr. Barrington 
the young minister who had made such a 
decidedly religious impression upon 
Lady Walton came often to see her with Mait-
land' consent, for he was so utterly power-
less to render any assistance himself, he was 
glad to have the support of so faithful a 
friend as Barrington had been from their 
first metting, and Mrs. Bland felt spiritually 
uplifted by the presence of this devoted 
minister of the "new faith" as it was called 
by them; Lady Anna was always more 
passive and rested better when he was in 
the house. 
During the early days of her illness Anna 
had spoken to her cousin prophetically of 
what might transpire and Jane had carefully 
noted it all, for her own premonitions con-
firmed it and she had told the Doctor, and 
also talked to Maitland, of her fears. The 
whole household mourned, for the lady 
was greatly beloved; she did not seem to 
suffer severe pain, but gradually grew 
weaker and weaker, and finally passed in-
to a deep sleep never more to waken in this 
world; just as her mother died or as Mrs. 
Bland had heard it from some of the old 
servants at Hilliard castle. 
	Maitland' grief was uncontrollable, he 
could not and would not be comforted, his 
remorse was pitifnl, and Dr. Bland had 
hard work to persuade him to leave the 
room after all was over while the attendants 
with Mrs. Bland performed the last sad 
services for their "sweet mistress"


WOMANS EXPONENT


MISS GRACE CHISHOLM, of Cambridge
University; Miss Maltby, formerly of
Wellesly College; and Mary F. Winston, of
Chicago, have received special permission
from the German government to enter the
University of Gottingen with the same
privileges which the men enjoy. Miss
Winston and Miss Chisholm are in the de-
partment of mathematics, and Miss Maltby
in that of physics.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SUMMERLAND.

(Suggested by reading Book of Alma 353rd, page.)

	'Tis a land where the waters of life,
		Gently flow through the vales of the blest,
	Where the fainting and thirsty may drink,
		There the Souls that are weary find rest.

		We shall meet—we shall greet—
	All our loved ones in fair Summerland,
		We shall meet—we shall greet—
	All our loved ones in fair Summerland.

	'Tis a land where the fairest of flowers,
		Deck the vales with their sweet Eden-bloom;
	Where the angelic petals shed forth,
		Everlasting celestial perfume,
							We shall meet &c.

	In this beautiful land of the blest,
		Where sorrows and tears never come,
	There is sweet rest for souls that are faint
		In that glorious, bright, beautiful Home.
							We shall meet—

	’Tis a land where the Pilgrims find rest—
		When their trials and troubles are gone:
	Where the bright Angels welcome them home,
		To this land of the sanctified ones.
							We shall meet—
								C. L. W.


TO THE SISTERS.

	OUR Conference is now numbered with
past blessings; how gratifying it would
have been for all the Saints to have par-
taken of the precious instruction we re-
ceived; but believing all prayerful saints
will receive a portion of the same spirit
that will strengthen comfort and encourage
them in every circumstance and in all trials
is a great consolation to me, the instruc-
tion from our brethren to all that would
favor Zion and that the key was turned in
favor of Zion, the thinning of the curtain
that has separated from us the far off bless-
ings.
	In the Sisters’ Conference President F. D.
Richards instruction was precious; assur-
ances for us to continue in our labors as we
have ever done in our society in all its
branches; it would have cheered every
heart to have heard it, and I trust it will
for God surely gave the pattern and all
will prosper if we are humble and faithful
to our duties, to be sure that the needy do not
suffer, Heavenly mission; that we may
meet our Father’s approval, and if great
wisdom be used in our words to cheer, and
with our deeds of kindness, that all may
have the spirit of gratitude to God for our
many blessings and I pray that they may
fill the soul of every sister that we may ad-
vance in good works and that we may be
strong and united.
	We three sisters, myself and my Counse-
lors, Sisters Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith are one in desiring God’s special
blessings upon our sisters, yes all, but
especially those who have so nobly labored
in the Relief Society. It was very much
regretted by me that Sister Richards had to
be absent from our Conference on account
of ill health (but trust she will soon re-
cover) as it was suggested in her absence,
that the President of each Stake organiza-
tion of the Relief Society would act as aids
for us to call upon; (I have said I, but we
three are the only ones that I wish to con-
vey in meaning) that we all may be blest
spiritually and temporally.


Take the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, 
we three as one with the Presidents of
Stakes, read and study the Lectures on
Faith, and that the Presidents of Stakes
would take it as a mission to ask all local
Presidents to have these lectures read in
their meetings that we may understand
alike, and mothers be able to instruct the
children and converse with the Primary and
Sunday School children to make it truly
profitable.
	My sisters this needs no comment,
that when we rest from our labors our
works will follow us in the hands of our
children. Let us be wise, humble, peace-
ful and prudent, not distrusting God’s
Providence and all will be well.
Oct. 15, 1893.				Z. D. H. Y.


To all our sisters throughout the world.
Since writing the above I can surely recom-
mend having the Book of Doctrine and
Covenants especially the lectures on Faith,
read by all the sisters, as in the Temple all
that work there meet, read and discuss these
lovely and eternal truths that edify and
satisfy the reasoning soul. We do not say
go and do, but come let us be strong, we
do not forget while in that precious place,
the absent and tried; the lectures are read
and questions every week, if there is a
power in reason that removes doubt and
gives assurance I have been fully assured,
for when the thought came tome it had not
been tried by the sisters in the Temple. I
trust that every Stake President will com-
ply and not delay in making it a request
and eveu if read at home, have some one
read it when together, you will have a por- 
tion of the same spirt by which we are
edified in the Temple, by faith and prayer
nothing doubting we shall see eye to eye,
having assure foundation. Our Sabbath
School children can be more strengthened
at home by their intelligent mothers, who
may be weary with toil, but by a little
management the reading can be a pleasant
home entertainment; we all should be
familiar with these lectures that we may res-
pect the Great Giver of these blessings and
the Prophet of the living God who has
laid down his life for the truth’s sake.
					ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
Dec. 5, 1893.


U.W. P. C.

	THIS organization met on the 29th, day
of the month, November, with the new of-
ficers in charge. The meeting was held in
the apartments of President Ellis R. Shipp
who occupied the chair, and was called
promptly on time, 7-30, p. m.
	The meeting was opened by prayer of-
fered by the honorary President E. B. Wells
and the roll call was responded to by
Thanksgiving Sentiments, original or
selected.
	Mrs. Nellie C. Taylor and Mrs. Elizabeth
Stevenson, were admitted to membership
and Mrs. M. A. V. Greenhalch was voted
in as Vice President at large for the club.
	The Secretary, read the By Laws of the 
club, and following a suggestion of Presi-
dent E. B. Wells, they were amended to
admit of the acceptance of members on
verbal recomendations instead of the writ-
ten ones hitherto required by the By Laws;
which amendment was readily adopted by
all of the members.
	The evening program was then carried
out as follows:


New England Thanksgiving stating the
origin of the custom among the Pilgrims
and the way of celebrating it ever since.
This interesting paper was prepared and
read by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	The Sec'y then read a paper written by
Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze on the "Influence of
Thanksgiving" on the spiritual being;
making some quotations given in literature,
ancient and modern, etc.
	Miss Olea Shipp favored the club with a 
choice instrumental selection which was
much appreciated.
	President Ellis R. Shipp read an original
poem on the subject of the hour. "Thanks-
giving."
	Several of the members gathered around
the piano and sang Will Carlton's Thanks-
giving Hymn.
	Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalch, in compliance
with a request of the President, addressed
the members. After expressing her
pleasure at meeting with the club this be-
ing her first attendance, though a member,
she described in a pleasing style the man-
ner of observing Thanksgiving in Old
England, gave the origin of the custom in
that country which dated back to the
Druids.
	This completed the program and the
regular meeting was adjourned, benediction
pronounced by Mrs. E. Stevenson.
	Dainty refreshments were served ac-
companied by the usual pleasant chat,
during which time Miss Olea Shipp rendered
some low, sweet music much to the enjoy-
ment of all.
	The numbers for the December program
are: Answering roll call by naming
Authors, and a quotation from their most
noted work. Essay on the Sixth Sense (or
something else) L. L. G Richards;
Biography of J. G. Whittier, Dr. R. B.
Pratt; Selection from Whittier, Miss
Patterson; Music, Gladys Woodmansee;
New Year’s Poem, Mrs. Dickinson.
		GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


REORGANIZATION.
	A SPECIAL meeting of the 8th, Ward,
Relief Society was held in the Ward as-
sembly rooms, Salt Lake City Oct. 24, 1893;
for the purpose of reorganizing and select-
ing a new president our former one having
passed away.
	The meeting was opened by singing “We
thank Thee O, God for a Prophet.” Prayer
by J. D. H. Mc.Allister. Singing “Oh
my Father.”
	The following sisters were then selected
and set apart; Catherine K. Palmer, Presi-
dent, Jane Cowan first counselor, Sarah
J. Chamberlain second counselor, Jennie
Mortensen secretary, Jennette McMurin
Ass’t. Sec’y, Eliza Frost treasurer.
	The Primaary Association was also re-
organized as follows, Sister Ann Cartwright
president, Jennie Mortensen first counselor,
Nettie Frost second counselor, Annie Cart-
wright secretary.
	Remarks were then made by Sisters Elmina
S. Taylor and E. B. Wells and Bishop
Sheets, after which the meeting was ad-
journed. Singing “Guide us O, Thou
Great Jehovah.” Benediction by Charles
Tuckfield.


THE way to gain a good reputation is to
endeavor to do what you desire to appear.
—Socrates.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. .
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
Salt Lake City Dec. 15,1893, AND Jan. 1, 1894.


TO OUR PATRONS AND AGENTS.
	WE very much regret being obliged to
issue our Christmas and New Year’s paper
in one number, but unavoidable circum-
stances compel it, and we earnestly entreat
the patrons and agents of the Exponent
to use their utmost influence and exertions
to increase its circulation, and urge upon
agents in all localities to solicit subscriptions
and make collections of outstanding accounts
wherever possible, meantime taking into
consideration the valuable service it has
rendered the women of the Territory and
throughout the Relief Society everywhere,
as well as the advancement of women
generally especially in reference to the
ballot for women. All members of the
Relief Society and all who believe in
Woman’s Suffrage and woman’s uplifting
in all directions should subscribe for the
first woman’s paper published in the Rocky
Mountain region.


[Column 1]
A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
	A HAPPY NEW YEAR is the salutation
that greets old and young at the present
time, and it is pleasant to hear the cheerful
tones repeating the hopeful words that
never grow old, but each year brings them
back fresh and crisp as ever.
	The new year comes full of hopefulness
from all for better days, and yet the last
dear old year brought with it many bless-
ings. After all none of us know whether
these days of adversity when money is
tight, and a panic seems to have struck the
country are not good for us all; sorrows have
their purpose and if these trials and per-
plexities will make us more gratified and
appreciative of the many blessings we do
enjoy, and lift our hearts to Him who is the
fountain of all light and love, if there is a
lesson to be learned through suffering, then
we should not repine, but accept our cup of
bitterness, if such it be, trusting in Him
who will overrule all for the good of those
who acknowledge His hand in all things.
	If we as a people should enumerate the
blessings of the year that is now numbered
with the past, we should find much to re-
joice over. The Salt Lake Temple to
which so many have looked anxiously for-
ward has been finished and dedicated to
the Lord, great promises have been given
on conditions of faithfulness, that should
encourage all who believe in the Latter
day work. None of our great leaders have
been taken from us, during this past year,

[Column 2] 
their lives have all been spared; throughout
the vales of the mountains peace and plenty
has reigned, and no great calamity has
befallen us here, such as has visited many
other countries and localities. For this
protection, and these blessings and many
others innumerable, we should be humble
and give the praise to our Father in Heaven
who controls the elements, guides all
things, and can turn the rivers of water
whithersoever He will.
	If some extra exertion is necessary that
the poor and unfortunate may have food
and raiment during the winter, it will
bring into active exercise the kindly and
generous feelings and sentiments of those
who minister to the needy, and every bless-
ing bestowed will enrich the giver, for
charity bestowed in a true spirit is a bless-
ing and development of good and brings a
rich reward and satisfaction to Him who
gives freely and wisely. The present con-
dition of scarcity too, may awaken thought
in the direction of providing against such a
state of things in the future; employment
for the working people is one of the best
preventives of poverty and want. Men
and women who can co-operate together
for charitable purposes, should also be able
to co-operate to establish industries, that
men may work for their bread, and women
too, and not be dependent on charity; this
would be truer charity than the giving of
alms.
	Certainly no thoughtful person can help
feeling that the past year has been a mar-
velously great one in the advancemeut of
the world. The Columbian Exposition
alone would mark it as an epoch in the
history of all time, significant for its bril-
liant success and the knowledge of industry,
science and art, placed within the reach of
so many millions of people for their enlight-
enment upon these fundamental subjects.
The great Congresses and Parliaments too,
where men and women eminent for learn-
ing and achievements from all parts of the
world read and sopke to the thousands upon
thousands, was an education in itself of the
higher and grander truths of humanity and
the universe. Reflecting upon these won-
drous events with all the details in one’s
mind that can possibly be comprehended,
one queries whether the new year just
opening can give us as great opportunities
and as much more food for cultivation as
the one just gone.
	In summing up the achievements of the
years it must not be forgotten the rapid
strides forward in the cause of woman’s
suffrage. New Zealand afar off holds up a
beacon light to the world. Australia is
marching onward in the same direction and
that which was least expected has already
come to pass. Colorado our near neighbor
has done herself proud in admitting woman
to equal suffrage. Everywhere the cause
is gaining, and ere long other brilliant stars
will be added to Wyoming and Colorado.
	The tendency of the World’s Fair was
decidedly in the direction of woman’s po-
litical emancipation. This fact was con-
stantly apparent. The conspicuous part
taken by women in the actual business of
the Fair, the good judgment and financial
ability displayed by the Board of Lady
Managers, and the many women com-
missioners and foremost workers, has
caused many men and women heretofore
opposed to woman’s enfranchisement to
very materially change their views upon
his subject. Not only has this been a

[Column 3] 
wonderful year but the 19th century is,
we believe, unparalleled in history since the
advent of the Savior the “Light of the
World” the Christian era.


CHRISTMAS-TIDE.

		“AT Christmas-tide the open hand
		Scatters its bounty o’er sea and land,
		And none are left to grieve alone,
		For love is heaven and claims its own.”

	The Christmas-tide gives each and all an
opportunity to do good in some way, to
each other, to a friend or foe and certainly
he who forgives is more blest than he who
bestows alms, for to forgive those who
have wronged us is greater. The Apostle
Paul said if we bestow all our goods to feed
the poor and have not charity it avails us
nothing, then true Charity is something
more, something higher, and what is there
more difficult than to forgive, yet we expect
to be forgiven daily for our offences. Can
we not once in a year cherish the spirit of
forgiveness to all mankind. Be at peace
with all the world. Do good to those that
have wounded us or hurt us. Be
magnanimous and try to follow the example
of Him whose birth we celebrate. Instead
of this many of us follow our own inclina-
tions, do those things that are pleasant and
agreeable, eat drink and are merry, forget-
ting the sick, the sorrowing and the hungry,
we shut ourselves up in our own narrow
circle, and might the unhappy and disconso-
late to whom a kind word and a trifle would
be so precious. So we harden our hearts
and pass on our way heedless of the great
tide of humanity around us, and yet we
justify ourselves and say we have done what
we could.
	Christmas-tide is the overflow of bless-
ings temporal and spiritual, the reaching
out to the needy in body and soul, ad-
ministering the good things of this life and
also that which will lead upward to the
higher and more exalted state, and above
all else the forgiving each other’s weakness-
es and shortcomings. Wherein we fail to
do this our Christmas-tide is not to us to our
own souls the satisfaction it might have
been. We have lost something by our lack
of humility, we shall never reach the high-
est cultivation in our own character, in our
own souls until we can forgive as we hope
to be forgiven. We who live in this
favored land of Zion are wonderfully blest
in many ways, our homes are full of plenty,
if we have not the luxuries of the wealthy,
we have the substantial blessings of food
and raiment, homes and comforts, and the
protection thrown around us that uplifts
and cheers the toiler in life’s battles.
	Everywhere almost throughout the world
we hear of the cry of the working people
for better conditions, better dwell-
ings, higher wages, consideration of needs,
and the thoughtful and sympathetic feelings
of those who bear rule and those who em-
ploy help are being exercised upon these
momentous questions of the time, labor
and capital. Here these conditions do not
exist. Working men are not compelled to
submit to tyranny of any kind, there is
such freedom and equality that there can
scarcely be a complaint of this sort, there is
more land to till, more soil to cultivate,
more deserts to subdue, and it is not neces-
sary to crowd into large towns or cities, but
the independent, ambitious young man can
go to and consider a field and buy it and
plant a vineyard, and be his own master.


For these and many other blessings in-
numerable almost, we as a people should
be grateful and at the blessed Christmas
time should not forget to render praise and
thanksgiving to our Father in Heaven for
His mercies to this people, and in our heart
of hearts not only remember this, but his
children not so favored with good things to
whom we may impart a portion of the good
things we enjoy.
	To teach the children to share with others,
one should set the example himself (or her-
self) it is so much better than precept, and
if the little ones are somewhat selfish of toys
and trifles they will remember in after years
the pattern of their parents, for these
memories do follow, and when the best be-
loved are far away, or have gone to the
“other side,” the lessons they taught, the
examples they set are more potent; one
goes back to childhood on such uncommon
days, involuntarily remembering the olden
time, when as boy and girl, or youth and
maiden, all the world was like one great
holiday and sorrows were unknown, or
were the exception; and all the beautiful
traits of character in the loved ones at home,
seem to beam forth out of the distant past,
and a solemn determination to imitate the
excellence of these heroes and heroines
whose memories one fondly cherishes is the
result of many a fireside, or lonely reverie
at Christmas time or such red letter days.
	It is good to observe these days set apart
for love and friendship, for this age is so
eminently practical that without some such
observances, social and family life would
lose much of its tenderness and sweetness.
The reunion around the festive board, and
better still the gatherings at eventide by
the hearthstone at home, awaken the most
affectionate recollections, or call forth the
simple tales one loves to hear repeated of
the former days, of the daily labor, or of ad-
venture by land or sea, or the old songs,
and the early lessons at school, the sport
the games, or the invigorating exercises of
work or pastime.
	Such pleasant evenings when large
families assemble at the paternal mansion,
are waymarks in life forever after, and the
custom of families’ assembling together
ought to be perpetuated, for it increases
love, and regard for each other, and for the
head of the family, and if simple meals
were prepared and less show and display
made, these occasions would not be so rare;
it is often the expense that hinders, and
one has to consider this—to be sure, but if
simpler preparations could be the general
rule there would be more real social and
domestic happiness, and less ruin through
debt and extravagance.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

[Continued from Oct. 15.]

	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
with singing, "Do what is right," &c.
Prayer was offered by President M, Isabella
Horne, continued by singing "Come come
ye Saints. '
	President Mary Pitchforth of Juab Stake
was the first speaker, she reported all the
branches of the Society in good condition
except Eureka, the mines there having
closed had caused a depression in every-
thing, spoke about the wheat that had been
stored and of blessings in general and
mentioned the large number of yards of
carpet the society had made and donated to

[Column 2]
the Manti Temple which was very much
appreciated, the sisters were always willing
and generous when called upon to do to
the very extent of their ability.
	President Susan Grant of Davis Stake
spoke principally of what had been done in
saving grain, urged the mothers to be united
with the fathers in using their influence
at home and elsewhere, union in the
family was necessary for the training of
the children.
	President Elizabeth Yates of Millard
Stake explained that they were all working
people not many wealthy and none very
poor, she tried to be careful of the wheat
and keep adding to it, she often felt sur-
prised to get the little things that are do-
nated from time to time, and the good ac-
complished through the generosity of the
sisters who have little enongh for their own
comfort, yet are always willing to divide
	THE next speaker was Apostle F. D.
Richards who stated that he felt compli-
mented in being invited to attend the
Sisters’ conference, was glad to see so many
present, thought we should realize what we
were called to do, as a society, and not get
in too great a hurry, but take things
quietly; a sentiment prevailed largely about
strong-willed persons, but that will should
be regulated if good were to be the result;
but when one says "I can do nothing of
myself only to do the will of my Father
that sent me," that was the right spirit and
feeling.
	President Richards referred to the meet-
ing held in the morning at the Church
University Building in which President
Woodruff had spoken to the brethren as-
sembled in regard to the grain that had
been stored up by the sisters for a time of
want or need, said the President had given
excellent advice which would be published
for the benefit of all interested in the
matter.
	The Lord has promised many adversities
and famine is one of them; the sisters had
been helping the brethren all the time, to
build houses, and now the speaker
thought the brethren would help the sisters
in return, thought if we solicited their help
in the spirit of kindness, and asked for
what we wanted and kept on asking and
importuning we would get it; the speaker
urged the sisters to take good care of the
sick and needy and not hesitate because
they are not good, they must have atten-
tion, "cherish the attribute of love, that
will help you in all your labors, it is an old
saying "Love laughs at locksmiths," it is
certainly a potent power, we should all
cultivate it, we all need it;" he then gave
some advise to the sisters in regard to buy-
ing wheat, study the markets, knew wheat
would be rising in value. President Young
and other brethren traveled through the
Stakes of Zion counseling the people to lay
up wheat; quoted from the 14th Chapter of
Revelations "Another angel flying etc.
for the hour of his judgment has come;"
a hurricane has just swept over the coast
which has killed two or three thousand
people at one fell swoop; when people build
banks, hotels etc., let them remember the
hour of His judgment has come." Presi-
dent Cannon has been speaking recently
upon false doctrine being insidiously in-
troduced and that much mischief is being
done, one family had asked to have their
names taken from the Church books.
Elder Richards warned the people against
these false doctrines, said every Latter-day
Saint who don't know the truth of this

[Column 3]
work, should get a testimony by faith and
prayers; sometimes in sickness people run
after the Doctor and lose their faith in the
servants of God and the priesthood; "these
people may make great pretensions but the
Lord has warned us against those decep-
tions, could we stand firm if we saw fire
come down out of heaven? by and by there
will be magicians, they will be equal to
Moses day when sticks were turned to
serpents and back again to sticks;" Presi-
dent Richards also alluded to Theosophy,
and other erroneous doctrines, these things
are moving more among the sisters than
the brethren; then referred to the doctrine
of reincarnation, said it used to be called
the baby resurrection, it was brought to the
attention of Joseph the Prophet, by a
polished gentleman, Joseph said there was
no truth in it, other errors sprang up,
Millerism, second-adventists, spiritualists
and mesmerizes, "the Lord is not going to
tell us, beforehand the day nor the hour of
certain events: in the Savior's time, no one
knew except the Father and Him only,
stick to the scriptures and hearken to the
words of the servants of God, and the
Gospel as revealed to you in your native
lands, thank the Lord for every blessing."
Elder Richards closed his remarks by bless-
ing all assembled and said go home rejoic-
ing, your hearts light, may the Holy Spirit
comfort you and gladden your souls, impart
to others, your sisters and associates in this
work, the good things you have heard here
and during the Conference that has just
closed.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the love she felt for the sisters, and blessed
them in her tender motherly way, referred
to her visit to Chicago and the many
noble women she met there, knew that
they were working for the good of their
sex. Joseph the Prophet had turned the
key of knowledge for all women, and ever
since that time woman's influence had been
greater in all directions for good. Presi-
dent Young then said she wished to in-
crease the sphere of usefulness of the
sisters who were presiding in the several
stakes and have them become aids to the
General Presidency of the Relief Society
to herself and her Counselors, that they
might visit among the adjacent Stakes of
Zion either by invitation or appointment,
stated that it was sometimes impossible for
her or either of her Counselers to attend
the Sisters' Conferences that were remote
from here and in this way it might be
beneficial to those at a distance to have the
President or Presidents near attend each
others Conferences, much good might be
effected by the interchange of ideas and
thoughts, and it would promote greater
union and love by becoming familiarly
acquainted with each others' labors, she had
been inspired to give this counsel; it had
come to her like a power and a glow and
joy, and she added "if you do this you will
have joy in your labors, and in cooperating
together and it will increase faith and a
better understanding of our great work
and give us renewed strength to perform
our duties. It is our privilege to be hum-
ble and faithful and if we are we shall be
prepared for all our duties, the Lord bless
you my dear sisters and give you his Holy
Spirit for your guide.
	President Mary A. Hyde Sanpete Stake
felt we had enjoyed a feast of fat things,
said in that county the sisters had nearly a
thousand bushels of wheat not much
chance to glean now as they did formerly


because of the machinery taking up the
grain so clean, that none was left for glean-
ing, Sister Hyde made other excellent re-
marks.
	President Sarah M. Kimball thought of
many subjects that might be presented, but
felt time was short, spoke of the little fund
the sisters laid up, a missionary fund in fact,
though the means should be used wisely
and for improvement, mentally, spiritually
and financially, thought the Lord would
not give us means, if we did not make a
success, there were many things that made
us feel akin and and reach out to all the
brotherhood of man and the sisterhood of
woman. Referred specially to the meeting
of the Woman's Congress held on Sunday
in the Art Palace in one of the great halls,
when sixteen ordained women ministers
sat upon the platform representing thirteen
denominations, one was clad in the sacer-
dotal robes of the Episcopal Church, it was
a beautiful sight to see these grand women
thus assembled; the speaker asked the
Lord to bless and restore Sister Richards
(who had not been able to come to the con-
ference) and to bless Brother Richards who
had done so much to elevate woman and to
help us all in the Relief Society; said a few
words in regard to women speaking at
the funerals of the sisters thought it was
quite proper that they should.
	At the close of the Conference, Apostle
Richards made a few appropriate remarks,
said Sister Young's inspiration concerning
the Presidents of Stakes was timely," two
or three visit together in convenient local-
ities, invite each other, and so on, it will be
a mutual benefit and there will be a corps of
laborers under the direction of the President
and her Counselors. The sisters of the
Relief Society are laborers and mothers in
Israel in thought and experience; and
women are more inclined to be
spiritual-minded, than the brethren,
and are more refined,—we have a fore-
taste here of the life that is to come, would
like to mention the National Woman's Relief
Society, you have in it a legal organization
of holding property in the Society; some of us
are afraid of the name, we have grown a
little, and we have a right to the name,
that should not alter the spirit but
strengthen the work, men have been or-
ganized into an Ecelesiatical organization in
wards also stake organizations, it has not
altered things at all, neither will it with
you, but put you into a position to hold
your property, these corporate powers
ought not to confuse you, or lead to differ-
ences: Constantine the Emperor turned over
everything to the law, we have as a society
become national and perhaps will be In-
ternational, this society is a great body and
is of some consequence and standing among
other great Associations, and the name
should correspond." President Richards
then announced the Rev. Howis lecture on
music and morals to be given in the evening
at that place. Singing "Lord Dismiss us
with thy Blessing." Benediction by Apos-
tle F. D. Richards. Conferenoe adjourn-
ed for six months.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th, Ward Assembly 
Hall, Saturday Nov. 18, 1893.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb presided.
The meeting was opened by singing "Arise

[Column 2]
O, Glorious Zion,”&c. Prayer by Sister
Diana Reid. After singing, minutes of
last meeting read and approved. Counselor
Webb gave some excellent instructions to
the sisters and desired them to bear their
testimony that the time be not wasted.
Spoke at some length on Temple work, ad-
vised the sisters to attend to that labor and
closed by saying “Let us be faithful sisters
and not lose all we have labored for, these
many years. Gounselor Elizabeth Steven-
son said we will come here to be educated
and instructed. Felt to praise the Lord
for strength to labor in the Temple, urged
the sisters to put away all light mindedness
and follies, to strive to be refined, for these
are some of the requirements of the king-
dom of God. Prayed that we all might be
faithful, and desired the sisters not to
quench the spirit but speak of the goodness
of God.
	Sister Price, spoke of the goodness of
God to her, and bore her testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. She also desired to
be one with her sisters to the end of the
race.
	Sister Hazon bore a faithful testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, desired to be
yet able to work in the Temple and prayed
that we might all enjoy the good things
prepared for the righteous.
	Sister Illsmough bore her testimony that
Joseph was a prophet of God felt that the
Lord would strengthen her to do good,
prayed God to bless us in this great and
glorious work.
	Sister J. C. Howe felt to endorse all that
had been said to day. Spoke of the work
she was doing in the Temple, felt that all
souls were precious and equal in the sight
of God and then to think that in our weak-
ness, we are enabled to redeem some of
these precious ones. Also gave much
good counsel and encouragment to the
sisters.
	Sister Phelps was thankful for the spirit
of God that she felt with us today, said she
loved to see the faces of her sisters, who
meet here. Was glad that she was able to
meet with them sometimes. Desired to be
humble and faithful to the end.
	Sister Forsythe bore her testimony, re-
joiced that her health was improved that
she could meet with her sisters, desired
that we might all be among the blessed
faithful ones.
	Sister Morris felt to bear her testimony,
was thankful that she had heard and obeyed
the Gospel and testified to the truth of the
same. Made many excellent remarks.
	Counselor E. Stevenson spoke at some
length concerning our boys and girls, the
children of the Covenant, felt that they
would yet perform a mighty work and bear
off the kingdom. Advised the sisters to
properly instruct their children, for many
mighty ones are being raised up, who are
valiant for God and his Kingdom.
	Sisters sang “Mid scenes of confusion”
&c. A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and desired to be faithful. Sisters
Corbett and Ford each bore testimonies true
and faithful and desired to be numbered
with those whom God would honor when
he made up his jewels. Sister Julia Druce
and Sister Workman also bore testimony
and desired to be faithful. Counselor Webb
said to the sisters "go in and work in the
Temple if you have only one name, the
way will open and more will be made
known to you, gave other instructions.”
The meeting was adjourned for two

[Column 3]
weeks. After singing “Satan’s
empire long has flourished” &c. the bene-
diction was pronounced by Sister Julia
Pack
LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

HON. C. W. PENROSE.

[Items from his address at the Convention
of the Utah W. S A. held in Salt Lake
City Oct. 5th, 1893.]
	HON. C. W. PENROSE address at W. S.
Convention. The speaker dwelt upon
necessity of organization, upon faith in the 
cause and confidence that it would succeed.
He urged that the work of converting the 
indifferent and skeptical, and inspiring the
lukewarm should go on, and said there is
nothing new to offer in the way of argu-
ment, but advocates of the cause should
study the objections of those opposed to
the franchise and be able to answer them.
There are no arguments against Woman
Suffrage, only objections which can be 
answered. In conclusion he advised the
ladies to refrain from any agitation of the 
suffrage clause in the bill for statehood, as
it might only retard the progress of the
bill without accomplishing their purpose.


UTAH W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	The Woman’s Suffrage association met 
in convention at Provo, Mrs. Electa Bul-
lock presiding. Nov 23, 1893.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, recently elected
president, and Mrs. F. S. Richards, first
vice-president of the Territory, were
present, and also quite a number of local
presidents. The object of the meeting was
to nominate county officers and to transact
other county business.
	The results of the nominations were
placed before the house, and the following
are the officers for the new year:
	Electa Bullock president; Mary John
first vice-president; Marilla Daniels second
vice-president: Rebecca Doolan secretary
and correspondent secretary; Mattie Beesley
assistant secretary; Alice M. Wilkins
treasurer; L. L. Dalton chairman executive
committee.
	The chairman introduced Mrs. E. B.
Wells, recently elected Territorial Presi-
dent, who spoke of the retiring president,
Mrs. Kimball, as having been made honarary
president of Utah Territory during her life
time. She then branched out on the great
value a vote possessed in certain places,
and the injustice that no woman regardless
of her business and education, may not
even cast a vote to protect her property.
Onr sanitary condition would be better
when women could have a voice. The
work of police matrons, and the work that
might be done for those who go astray was
referred to. If women study up these
questions they might show our men that
something might be done in this regard, a
great deal better than it is done now.
	“This is suffrage work” said the speaker,
and when we get our suffrage we will but
progress along these lines. We voted as
intelligently as a whole when we had the
franchise as men do. I heard of a
legislator recently, who; when it was sug-
gested to him that there were some laws to
be amended, said with astonishment ‘I
thought we were here to make laws, I did
not know there were any before.’ The


Relief Society has given us so much
practice in organized work, that we are
much better prepared than the women of
other places."
	She referred to Colorado’s recent ad-
vancement; and how soon the women of
that state would stand by the side of
Wyoming in another presidential campaign.
The trend of all women’s work at the
World’s Fair was toward the ballot. The
taking up of some regular work, such as
civil government, and other proper sub-
jects, calling on men for assistance, and
giving them the privilege of membership
was recommended. Also that we draw in
and work harmoniously with all classes of
suffragists.
	Mrs. F. S. Richards, first Territorial vice-
president, made a few appropriate remarks,
following in the lines opened by Mrs. Wells.
She spoke of the many handsome compli-
ments she had received at the World’s
Fair in behalf of the women of Utah, and
the noble work they had done.
	Mrs. Lapish made a few very favorable
remarks.
	The president closed with a broad sum-
ming up and promises for the future.
Reporter E. J.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DAVIS CO. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	THE Convention met at 2 p. m. in the
meeting house at Farmington, President
Lucy A. Clark in the chair. Oct. 27, 1893.
	Singing "Wyoming" from the Suffrage
Song book. "Proud State of the Union,
we love thee, A symbol of Justice thy
name; The folds of our flag wave above
thee, The star of thy greatness to claim."
etc.
	Prayer by Susan Grant. Singing, "Our
country now from thee, We claim our
liberty in freedom's name."
	The minutes of the last annual conven-
tion were read and approved also the
financial report.
	Dora Wessels, Helen Perkins, and Mary
Millard were appointed a committee on
credentials and reported the following named
ladies entitled to seats in the convention:
	Kaysville, Minnie Williams, Ellen Bar-
ton, Sarah B. Layton, Jane Blood, R.
Mansel and Dora Wessels; Farmington,
Elizabeth Coombs, Helen M. Miller, Clara
Stayner, Aurelia S. Rogers and Mary Mil-
lard: Centreville, Margaret Randall; East
Bountiful, Jane Holt; West Bountiful,
Martha Fackrell and Helen Perkins; South
Bountiful, Mary Ann Page, Eliza Nelson,
Maria Hatch, Sarah Howard, Emma Moss,
Phoebe Hales and Rhoda Atkinson. 
	Speeches were made by President Min-
nie Williams, of Kaysville, President
Elizabeth Coombs, of Farmington, Vice-
President Margaret Randall, of Centreville,
President Martha Fackrell, of West Bounti-
ful, Jane Holt, East, and Mary Ann Page,
of South Bountiful.
	Those who had held meetings in their
precincts reported that they had made some
progress in the study of civil government,
history, politics, etc.
	The following officers were elected:
President, Lucy A. Clark; Vice Presidents,
Lizzie Smith, Rose Hatch and Dora Wes-
sels. Secretary Leone Rogers, correspond-
ing Secretary, Hattie Knowlton; Treasurer,
Mary Millard. Auditors, M. E. Knowlton
and Julia Hess. Chairman of executive
committee, Athalia Steed, members of com-
mittee, Minnie Williams, Elizabeth Coombs,

[Column 2]
Margaret Randall, Alice Neville, Maria
Hatch and Ellen Perkins.
	Honorary Vice Presidents, Susan Grant,
Jane Holt, Mary S. Clark, Sarah B.  Lay-
ton, Martha Fackrell and Aurelia S.
Rogers. 
	President L. A. Clark said she was proud
of the record of Woman Suffrage in Utah;
they hold the second place in the nation,
New York being the only state that has an
association with a greater membership,
spoke of the progress of women of the
present day.
	While in Chicago attending the con-
gress of representative women, the grandest
gathering of women ever recorded in the
history of the world, was present at a ses-
sion when fourteen national associations
were represented and two of the fourteen
had head quarters in Utah.
	The National R. S. and the National Y.
L. M. I. Associations. And by comparing
statistics and reports, showed that there
were more organized women in Utah than
in any of the other states or territories.
Truly the advancement of woman will ad-
vance human happiness and prosperity.
Every step she has gained has been ac-
complished not by force or compulsion, for
she works her revolution, with the weapons
of peace and love and with such weapons
of defense her advance may be slow but
must eventually be sure.
	May the flames of equality, that have
been kindled in your bosoms, continue to 
burn steadily and true until all the icebergs
of prejudice with which you are surrounded
shall have melted away, and, "Hasten the
day when freedom's proud banner, pro-
tecting no tyrant shall shadow no slave."
	Song: "The song that reached my
heart," was sweetly rendered by Minnie
Williams, of Kaysville. Essay "Woman
versus Man," by Aurelia S. Rogers. Or-
gan solo by Ella Barton, of Kaysville.
	After singing and benediction the con-
vention adjourned.


NATIONAL-AMERICAN CON-
VENTION.

	THE 26th, Annual Convention of the
National-American Woman Suffrage As-
sociation will be held in Washington, D.
C., at Metzerott’s Music Hall, Feb. 15-20
inclusive, 1894.
	The Government’s recognition of women
in the Board of Managers for the World’s
Columbian Exposition, the World’s Con-
gress of Representative Women—the
greatest convocation of women ever as-
sembled—the participation of women in the
entire series of World’s Congresses, the
gaining of woman suffrage in Colorado,
give to our demand for political equality for
women unprecedented prestige in the world
of thought.
	From this vantage ground let us assemble
in our 26th annual Convention to work for
the realization of an ideal Republic, with
the assurance of success in the near future.
	With the question of woman suffrage
pending in Kansas and New York, it is our
manifest duty to concentrate our efforts up-
on those two States, and one business ses-
sion of the Convention will be devoted to
the consideration of ways and means to
further this object.
	Besides the presidents of the auxiliary
State Associations, the speakers invited are:
Mme. Fanny Zampini Salazar, of Italy, and
Mme. Hanna Korany, of Syria, who


were delegates to the World’s Congress of
Representative Women; Mrs. Carrie Lane
Chapman, who was a most important factor
in the Colorado victory; Rev. Marion
Murdock, Rev. Ida C. Hultin, Rev. Anna
H. Shaw, Mrs. Elizabeth Boynton Harbert
Mrs. Julia ward Howe,  Miss Mary H.
Krout, Mrs. Mary Lowe Dickinson,
secretary of the King’s Daughters, Mr. H.
B. Blackwell, and others. 
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY, President.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY, Cor. Sec.


IN WOMAN’S REALM.

	Every lady is thinking about the coming
holidays. What would be the nicest present to
offer? Before deciding remember that health is
to be considered, before everything else. How
can you enjoy a Christmas Dinner or a new dress
if you are not well and happy? DR. DE JOZA's
famous prescription is a dowry to every lady suf-
fering with painful and irregular menstruation.
In order to give those who have not already
tried it an opportunity of doing so, we will send
one trial treatment only to each person for $2.00.
Regular price, $3.00. We send a written guaran-
tee to cure any case, no matter of how long
standing, in two treatments or refund money.
This is the genuine prescription of the famous
Dr. DE JOZA; hundreds of testimonials at your
service. This world renowned treatment was
discovered in 1849, and has been adopted in all
principal hospitals of France All orders and
inquiries must be sent to the “LADY MANAGER,
SALT LAKE MEDICINE CO., Salt Lake City,
Utah.” Write for particulars and remember
that we are responsible for our guarantee. Lady
manager wanted in every city and town.


ANOTHER RELIEF SOCIETY.

	MINUTES of the organization of the
Relief Society of South Taylorsville held in
the School house Oct. 31st, 1893.
	Bishop Heber Bennion presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing, “Praise to the man.”
Prayer by Bishop Heber Bennion. Singing
“Now let us rejoice.”
	Bishop Bennion then spoke upon the
necessity of organizing a Society in this
part of the ward, and upon the duties and
strength of the Relief Society, in the
several wards.
	Sister Pixton made the motion that Sis-
ter Mary Parker be appointed president;
and a unanimous vote was taken.
	Sister Parker was then set apart by
Bishop Heber Bennion.
	Sister Jane Bringhurst was selected as
first counselor and set apart to that position
by counselor William Panter.
	Sister Mary Palmer was chosen second
counselor and set apart by Bishop Heber
Bennion.
	Sister Sarah E. Bringhurst was selected
as secretary and set apart by Bishop Ben-
nion.
	Sister Alice Newbold was chosen treasur-
er and set apart by counselor William Pant-
er.
	There were present, Bishop Heber Ben-
nion and counselors, Sisters Julia C. Howe
and Lydia D. Alder, of Salt Lake City,
Sister Elizabeth Pixton, Sister Mary Ben-
nion, Sister Webster, all of whom spoke
very instructively to the Sisters.
	Services closed by singing “The Spirit
of God,” benediction by Elder William
Parker.
ALICE J. HARKER, Sec.


PRIMARY ANNUAL.
	The 14th, Ward Primary Association
held its annual meeting Sunday evening
Dec. 3rd 1893, under the direction of the


President Ella W. Hyde; present were the
Bishopric of the ward, Counselors Clara C.
Cannon and Camilla Cobb of the Territorial
and stake organization, parents of the
children and others. Meeting opened by 
singing “Gather them into the fold.”
Prayer by Master Fara Fox, singing
“Trust the children.”
	A very interesting program was carried
out as follows. Bessie Crismon and Ray
Workman gave a recitation entitled “Two
little welcomes.’’ Fera Fox gave a lecture
on “Prayer.” Sentiments, called Resolu-
tions were repeated in concert by the
children, conducted by Joan Campbell.
Freddie Wilcox gave a recitation entitled,
“Catching the colt.” A motion song was
given by Frankie and Georgie Young.
The articles of Faith were repeated by
Alice Cannon, Hattie Folsom and
Frankie Young. Little Roy Taylor gave a
recitation entitled “Three little cats.”
	An interesting sketch of the life of Eliza
R. Snow was read by Lyle Young, followed
with a song by Ruby Workman.
Questions and answers on the “Word of
Wisdom” was next given, questions asked
by R. M. Fox, answered by eight girls.
Vida and Lester Fox gave an original
dialogue composed by R. M. Fox. A duet
was nicely rendered by Daisy Fox and
Minnie Goss the children joining in the
chorus. Ivy Crismon gave a rectation and
Master Bertie Clive a Violin Solo. After
which interesting and encouraging re-
marks were made by Counselors, Camilla
Cobb, Clara C. Cannon and Bishop George
H. Taylor. Singing “Dare to do right.”
Benediction by Master Joseph Goss.
	On the following Friday afternoon Dec.
8th, a picnic was given to the children of
the Primary, in the basement of the 14th,
Ward Hall, when between sixty and
seventy children were present. After the
opening exercises, refreshments were served
and games engaged in by the little folks un-
til a late hour when they were dismissed,
and returned to their homes with happy
beaming faces, the officers feeling well re-
paid for their labors.
	E. W. H.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference of Wayne
Stake, convened Aug. 28th, at 2 p. m.
President Jane S. Coleman presiding, the
choir sang “We thank thee O, God for a
prophet,” prayer offered by Elder Joseph
Eccersley. Singing “O God we raise to
thee.” This being our first Conference
there were no minutes to read. The
President said she was pleased to meet with
the sisters of the Relief Society and also
the Brethren, spoke upon the duties of the
sisters, hoped we would be able to ac-
complish much good, appreciated our Stake
organization, as a great blessing, also
spoke on faith and good works.  Verbal
Reports were given, President Louisa Tay-
lor, Fremont, Margaret Taylor, Loa, Helen
Maxfield, East Loa, Coun. Mary Bullard,
Thurber, Prest. Mary Ann Lords, Blue
Valley, all reported their branches in good
condition and the spirit of union prevail-
ing.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks, reported for
Cainsville and Aldridge, spoke favorable,
made remarks upon the great blessings we
enjoy, spoke of the good instructions given,
hoped we would practice them in our


lives and increase in faith and the gifts of
the Gospel.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth, of Loa,
said it was a pleasure to meet with the
Relief Society, was gratified to see so
many brethren present, gave much good
counsel to parents, spoke also upon sus-
taining the WOMAN'S EXPONENT by sub-
scribing for it, spoke upon other subjects
pertaining to our holy religion practical and
good.
	Counselor G. Bastian of the stake Presi-
dency, spoke in loving terms of the sisters
of the Relief Society, their good works
their charity in an appieciative way gener-
ally. 
	Our esteemed President Willis E.
Robinson, made encouraging remarks on
the labors of the sisters had been edified
with the instructions given, prayed the
blessing of God to rest upon the Relief
Society in all its branches.
	Singing “O say what is Truth.” Bene- 
diction by Elder U. V. Stewart. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
Florence M. Williams, Stake Secy.


MISS MARGATET IRWIN, one of the As-
sistant Labor Commissioners of England,
reports that in the tailors’ workshop of the
Co-operative Society of Glasgow, the wo-
men were lately taking work at less wages
than men, in work usually done by men.
The men struck because their demand
that the women should be dismissed was
not granted. The Tailors’ Union made
peace by arranging that the women should
be paid the same wages as men. This is a
good way of settling troubles.
	IMMEDIATELY after suffrage was given
to the women of Colorado, the sixty-eight
leagues of the Equal Suffrage Association
resolved themselves into leagues for polit-
ical study. The book selected is John
Fiske’s Civil Government.—Ex.


IN MEMORIAM.

Editor Exponent:
	IT is with regret we have to announce the
death of one of our number. So sudden and
unexpectedly Sister Sarah P. Crosby died at
her home in Panguitch Garfield Co. Utah on
Nov. 13th 1893 of pneumonia after a severe ill-
ness of three days.
	Deceased was born in Iowa Sep. 20th, 1848; was
the daughter of Lorenzo and Beulah Clark and
wife of Jesse W. Crosby Jr. was the mother of
ten children, two of whom passed away in infancy.
Her husband, five children with many relatives
and friends surrounded her death bed powerless
to render any relief. Three absent sons arrived
soon after.
	Sister Sarah has been an active worker in the
Relief Society, holding the office of Counselor to
our Stake President, Sister Barbara Myers, since
its organization on June 5th, 1878, has also acted
as Stake Secretary until our last Conference, Aug.
31st, when she was released from that position by
her own request, feeling it too much responsibility.
Although very feeble in health the past year her
energies seemed doubly increased in her public
labors. In nll our associations she will be greatly
missed whether public or private; she was a 
regular attendant at all meetings, and we know
all is well with her.
	Rest in peace dear sister,
		Your work is nobly done,
	Life's battle has been fought
		Eternal peace well wom.
	Although we miss you sadly,
		Since your parting gave us pain,
	We are reconciled in knowing
		Our loss is Heaven's gain.
BARBARA MYERS, Prest.
H. A. CROSBY, Cor. Sec.


MEN like women to reflect them, no
doubt; but the woman who can only re-
flect a man, and is nothing in herself, will
never be of much service to him. The
woman who cannot stand alone is not likely
to make either a good wife or mother.—
George Macdonald.


ERRATA:—In an article entitled (Mesa
Items) I am represented as saying, that the
Relief Society Hall, cost $150.00 instead
of $1,500,00 (one thousand, five hundred
dollars) which makes a slight difference in
the cost, I fear there would not have been
much of a building per 150.
			Yours truly,
				SARAH M. POMEROY.


HEALTH FOR WOMEN.

	THE Viavi Home Treatment is a certain
cure for all female diseases and uterine
troubles. It has cured thousands of wo-
men who have despaired of ever getting
relief. The treatment is applied by the
patient herself, causes no inconvenience
and is absolutely safe and reliable—Cor-
respondence solicited. For full particulars
address Dr. E. B. Ferguson 121 B. Street
Salt Lake City.


A Card
TO THE Ladies!
	DEAR LADY: If you are troubled with painful
and irregular periods take DR. DE JOZA'S World- 
renowned Prescription. We give writter guaran- 
tee to permanently cure in two treatmen[--] or re- 
fund money. Price for one trial treatment $2.00.
Write or call on Lady Manager.
SALT LAKE MEDICINE CO.,
			56 West Second South St., 
				Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Patients unsuccessfully treated or imposed up- 
on by others especially invited to call.

DUNFORD’S
Have the Cheapest and Best Lines of
SHOES AND SLIPPERS 
In the City. 
New Store. 57 S. Main St.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House

R.K.THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY 
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

