VOL. 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, AND 15, 1894.	No. 12.


CONTENTS:

	Silk Culture in Utah—Margaret A. Caine. Con-
vention Notes. Souvenirs of Lilac-Time—Aunt
Em. When Women Vote. Notes and
News. History of Music in Utah—Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson. History of the Drama in Utah—Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson. Growth of Woman Suffrage
—A. S. B. Mass. Suffrage Meeting 1894—H.
B. Blackwell. Relief Society Secretaries—
Margaret A. Caine.

	EDITORIAL.—Editorial Notes.

	POETRY.—The Presence of God—Lu Dalton.
A Fragment—E. B. W.


THE PRESENCE OF GOD.

 I STOOD in the bleak, solemn midnight
	On the shore of the fathomless sea, 
And knew that some deep wave was bringing
	The baptism of Death to me.
The stars overhead coldly glittered
	Like swordpoints which pierced to my soul;
The frowning, unfriendly sky glowered,
	And breakers with menaces rolled,

Chill winds swept the billow-tops moaning 
	Low dirges deep burdened with woe;
Mysterious whispers and groaning
	Oppressed me with horror, and oh! 
The vast, smileless universe turning
	Away from my shuddering soul,
Sick, sick with a terrible yearning 
	To be not, to go not, alone.

So wide was the infinite Ever,
	So endless Immensity spread,
So hollow and empty the Never,
	So awful the home of the Dead,
Though open the wonderful gateway
	’Tween Here and the uuknown There, 
Though beckoned by Nature’s deep secrets,
	My soul reeled in fear and despair.

“So lonely!” I cried, “oh, so lonely!
	How can I go forth all alone
To leave this warm life which has known me,
	With no kindred hand in my own?”
The wind swept my puny breath landward 
	And angrily roared in my ear, 
Then every sound shuddered and fainted,
	While, frightened, I panted to hear.

Dread Nature breathed low to my spirit
	And drew her dark curtains aside;
Awe—stricken, amazed and confounded,
	I scanned all Creation so wide, 
Oh, had I been borne to the regions
	Extending away and away,
Beyond and beyond the bright legions
	Of systems and suns on their way.

I saw circling planets fly faster
	Than lightning’s swift wheels, ’till at last
They flew, like night moths to a candle,
	Their suns’ fires to feed, far and fast
Fair worlds newly born waxed and blossomed,
	Dead moons faded, shrunken and rent,
And comets sped rushing through systems
	As swift, faithful messengers sent.

I saw those bright sparks from the Ever 
	Those glimmers which men call the Soul,
So limited, blinded and baffled,

[column 2]
	In the struggle that clay to control,
So groping like seeds to the sunlight,
	So beaten, so bruised and so tost,
Yet embryo Gods straining upward—
	No effort, no agony lost.

I saw grasses gratefully growing,
	Exultingly filling their span;
And trains of ants coming and going,
	So glad to be part of God’s plan.
A chorus of joy filled the spaces
	Between the vast systems of worlds
For Life with its gifts and its graces
	And Death which new vistas unfurls.

I lifted my eyelids; but stricken
	And shriveled as lightning had sped,
I fell like a stone. I had looked in
	The eyes of my God, deep and dread.
Eternity lay there enfolded,
	And mystery fathomless rolled;
But in infinite tenderness spoke He,
	Reviving and strength’ning my soul.

Oh, fearest thou death because lonely?
	E’en so, son of man, was thy birth;
The gates Life and Death admit only
	One soul to or fro from the earth.
You looked in mine eyes and fell shrieking,
	When loneliness ’self you saw there—
Perfection, which all life is seeking,
	Is lonely because yet so rare,

When man feels this presence pervade him,
	From night’s hollow orb, or the roar
Of waves o’er the turbulent ocean,
	My spirit is shadowing o’er,
But upward and evermore upward
	All life grows through pleasure or pain, 
Throngh failure or triumph still mounting
	The cycles of infinite gain.

All good lies enshrined in my bosom,
	Approach thou and freely partake;
Love, Wisdom and Life Everlasting,
	With infinite joy in their wake. 
Come, come! O my children, I call you;
	Mount, mount! By the ways I have trod;
Let Strife, Pain and Death not appal you
	For I am your lonely God.

I awoke, and behold I’d been dreaming;
	I pondered deep truths in my soul;
Night, solitude, death have a seeming
	Of loneliness awful and cold,
Which is God’s holy presence enclouding,
	His voice which in silence we hear,
And death but withdraws the vail shrouding
	A higher and holier sphere.

Though, loth to tread paths unfamiliar,
	Thou shrinkest in cowardly dread,
Of the unknown just seen in the distance,
	Take courage, my soul, lift the head,
For onward and evermore onward
	Progresses a conquering way
To God and His glory; then forward
	Press, fearless,through Night and through Day.

No more let sweet Solitude chill thee,
	Nor moaning winds shake thee with fear, 
Nor Death with cold dread ever fill thee,
	Though draweth he momently near.
Oh, come he today or tomorrow.
	With gladness my feet shall be shod!
And, waiting, I’ll still struggle toward
	The lonely perfection of God.
							LU DALTON.


SILK CULTURE IN UTAH.

		A GOLD MINE IN EMBRYO.

	ONE of the very important resources of
the Territory which attracted marked at-
tention at the Columbian Exposition was
the Utah Silk Exhibit at the Woman’s
Building; and we fully realize that the op-
portunity given us to exhibit our silk to the
world is due to Mrs. Potter Palmer, Presi-
dent of the Board of Lady Managers, whose
intelligent sympathy and keen appreciation
of the needs of industrial women rendered
her the constant champion of this worthy
enterprise.
	Today the annual importation of un-
prepared silk alone into the United States
amounts to over $35,000,000; and the
quality of silk which they procure is such
that our manufacturers cannot discover the
art of putting a luster on it which will last,
or give us a fabric which will in any way
compete with the foreign manufactured silk.
Apparently there is very grave misunder-
standing of silk in our country. The
beauty and luster of the oriental silk is
supposed to be due to some unknown art in
manufacturing and dyeing, and that all
silk is silk of very nearly the same quality.
This is a mistake. There are as many
grades of silk as you may expect to find of
fruit in an orchard. By thoroughly under-
standing the nature of the worms, provid-
ing them with proper food, this may be con-
trolled by the producer. Yet it is as im-
practicable to attempt to raise only the best
grade of silk as of any other agricultural
product.
	The great Fair just over has given us an
opportunity to learn something of what
has been done in this industry. We find
that silk has been raised to a considerable
extent in Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Kansas,
California, Georgia and Florida; in fact in
almost every state in the Union, and in
most cases by women. No doubt in many
parts of our country where the mulberry
will grow a much better quality of silk can
be raised than is now being imported; but
as the climate has much to do with the
quality and luster of the silk we feel confi-
dent that in America, Utah will be the
home of the silk worm, for our silk con-
tains the same luster, elasticity and dura-
bility as that which can be produced in any
country in the world.
	This industry in Utah began in the year
1855 or 1856. In the past it has been
carried on mostly in the homes of the
people, yet we find much has been done in
a public way. Brigham Young when
Governor of Utah procured a supply of
mulberry seed from France and in a few
years fifty acres of mulberry trees were
planted out in orchards or groves in Salt
Lake and Utah counties. From that time
they have been grown in all parts of the
Territory,—in nearly every town and
village—and they have flourished luxuriant-


[Column 1]
ly; it is estimated that there are at least
two hundred and fifty acres of mulberry
trees in Utah at present.
	The services of some experienced seri-
culturists from France and Italy have been
secured to give instructions to the people in 
raising the worms. Uuder the direction of
Mrs. Dunyon there were raised in six
weeks 700 pounds of cocoons, which at that
time were worth $2.00 per pound in 
France.
	In 1876 a Territorial organization was
effected, called the Deseret Silk Association,
(Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, President.) for
the purpose of promoting the industry by
means of united efforts. Auxiliary as-
sociations were formed in several counties
in which women were active directors and
practical workers. Cocoons were raised in
large quantities, but for lack of means
manufacturies were not permanently es-
tablished. During one year this association
paid to operators $1,500. and the quantity
of silk prepared was 400 pounds. There
have been raised in Utah over twenty eight
thousand pounds of cocoons.
	Utah silk was exhibited at the Centennial
Celebration in Philadelphia, and examined
by experts who attested to its excellence,
and awarded a diploma. Utah cocoons
have been placed on the market in San
Francisco and Philadelphia and pronounced
a very superior quality. During the
failure of silk worms in France a large
quantity of eggs were sent there, which
were considered by them to be very good, 
and for which we received a very high
price. This for a time found a market for
large quantities of cocoons also.
	In the manufacturies of the East little
has been done in reeling silk, and as there
is no duty on the unprepared silk (while all
manufactured silk is imported under a
heavy duty) they seem to prefer importing
silk in bales, our people not having had
sufficient experience to make them perfect
reelers, and our silk in that condition could
not pass the examination to which it was
subjected, therefore could not be disposed
of. At one time the manufacturing of silk
thread was quite extensively and success-
fully carried on by Judge Alexander Pyper
in Salt Lake City, and for some time Z. C.
M. I. Shoe Factory was supplied with thread,
which it is said was very much better than
any they have ever been able to import. It
was also much desired by saddle and har-
ness makers because of its superior strength.
This enterprising industry was brought to
a sudden end by the death of its promoter.
Thus when we were brought in close com-
munion with the East by the railroads, and
having a country so very rich in its resour-
ces and it being no longer necessary for the
mother to make the cloth with which she
clothed her family, the culture of silk was
becoming a thing of the past. But we are
now being made aware of the fact that with
our rapidly increasing population every
resource of the country must be fully de-
veloped, and we hope in the near future to
establish manufacturies and put up with a
little inconvenience in the silks we wear
until we learn to do the work perfectly.
	When the Board of Lady Managers sent
an invitation to the women of Utah, desir-
ing them to contribute something to the
decoration of the Woman’s Building at the
World’s Fair, it was decided that nothing
would be more representative of the thrift
and industry of the Territory and so entire-
ly woman’s work as a pair of home raised

[Column 2]
silk portiers, the design to be the Sego Lily
(the floral emblem of Utah) designed and
embroidered by our own ladies. The
portiers as a proof of our wise selection
were received with profound surprise, it
not having been known that such a quality
of silk could be raised in America.
	Mrs. Margaret B. Salisbury, National
Commissioner from Utah, was asked if
Utah could make an exhibit of silk, which
might lead to the encouragement of seri-
culture in the United States, if an ap-
propriation could be obtained from Con-
gress. The money being procured the
offer was accepted, although the Fair was
then open. As no silk had been raised for
four years this was no easy task at home,
yet we succeeded in collecting a number of
silk dresses, silk shawls, scarfs, fringes,
hosiery, knitting and sewing silk and twists,
a quantity of reeled silk and cocoons,
these, with the portiers, made our cases
both artistic and interesting. We also en-
gaged a young lady born and raised in
Utah to reel, and a woman to weave and
procured a primitive loom, reel and twist-
ing wheel, with all attachments, which
had been used here in the early days.
	This exhibit attracted a great deal of at-
tention and in the last catalogue issued it
was prominently mentioned as one of the
most interesting exhibits in the Woman’s
Building, and of especial interest to in-
dustrial women. Among those who
visited it were many foreigners who were
experienced in seri culture, who were very
much interested. One Frenchman who is
engaged in selling French silks in America
said of one piece of silk which he was
looking at “That if we could raise silk of
that quality we had an unknown source of
wealth which would be more to us than
any amount of gold if properly
manipulated.’’ Many kindergarten work-
ers took notes of every detail, and think it
will be a wonderful thing to introduce into
their work. Women interested in industrial
homes were just as anxious to know all
they could and felt confident, that if taken
up in a simple way, would furnish interest-
ing employment for their girls, which
might in time bring a very profitable re-
muneration. We sincerely trust the
exhibit will do a great deal of good in the
direction for which it was intended, and
that we will fully appreciate the benefits
which it has brought to us at home.
	Our silk was examined by a committee of
Japanese under the Department of Manufac-
ture, and awarded a medal and a diploma,
and under the department of agriculture by
American experts, who also awarded it a
medal and a diploma. Besides this a vast
amount of valuable information was ob-
tained by the exhibitors, which the Fair
with its visitors afforded, which because of
the secretive way the arts of raising and
preparing silk have been held were before
unknown to us. Besides the exhibit made
at the Woman’s Building the ladies of
Davis county contributed a set of furniture
(seven pieces) to the ladies reception room
in the Utah Building, upholstered in home
raised silk, it was a sage green brocaded
with a spray of wild sage, the color har-
monizing with the other furnishings in the
room. The upper part of the windows
were festooned very artistically with cocoons
and a frieze of peacock feathers, which to-
gether presented to the weary sight-seer
such a restful and cool appearance that it
was greatly admired, and many having

[Column 3]
heard of it from their friends came to see it
for themselves. We feel that if the wo-
men of Utah can receive some assistance
and will take hold of this industry, which
is so particularly adapted to women and
permanently establish it, it will give labor
of a profitable nature to many of our wo-
men and be a great benefit to the nation, by
keeping at home a vast amount of money.
	The raising of the worm is a labor which is
extremely interesting, and to the womanly
heart brings out a loving care and interest
which makes it more than mere labor.
The reeling demands such an acute and
gentle touch as can only be found in the
hands of women. The weaving furnishes
a broad field for artistic work in coloring
and designing, as well as light labor, and 
will bring to any industrious woman a 
profitable remuneration, and should it not
be a great source of pride to any young wo-
man who could raise prepare and weave
the silk in her own gowns.
	As has been stated there are thousands
of mulberry trees already growing, the
climate is well adapted to the silk worm;
the freedom from disease which is so fatal
in damp climates, and with hundreds of
women anxious to engage in the industry,
things look propitious for the development
of an industry to be established which will
be a source of considerable wealth and
revenue to the Territory.
	MARGARET A. CAINE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


CONVENTION NOTES.

	THE Riggs Housewill be the Conven-
tion Headquarters, where the Correspond-
ing Secretarywill be glad to receive any 
persons arriving in Washington on
Wednesday, February 14, and desiring to
call for special information.
	State Presidents and Members of the
Executive Committee Meeting, Thursday,
February 15, at 9 a. m., in Metzerott’s
Hall. (Small Hall second floor.)
	Complimentary tickets for the evening
sessions have been reserved for officers and
delegates, and will be furnished to each
State President for her delegation, im-
mediately at the close of the Thursday
morning session of the Convention.
	Among the distinguished local speakers
who will take part in the sessions of the
approaching Convention in Washington,
are the District Commissioner Ross, who
will welcome the Convention at the open-
ing session, and the well known Hebrew
Philanthropist, Hon. Simon Wolf, who will
speak on Saturday evening.
	The President’s Evening a new and very
attractive, feature of the coming Washing-
ton Convention, will be Monday, Feb. 18.
Each State president will be limited to
seven minutes and “Time” will be called.
So that everyone who attends the Conven-
tion on this evening will be sure of having
no opportunity to sleep.


REV. MARY TRAFFERN WHITNEY, of
West Somerville, Mass., was invited to pre-
side over the meeting of the Unitarian
clergymen of Boston and vicinity recently
and did so with grace and dignity.

	LADIES in New Zealand have the fran-
chise. They also take their hats off in the
theatre. If this is a case of cause and
effect, the cause of woman’s suffrage is
likely to have a boom.—Lowell Times.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A FRAGMENT.

I ONLY take my hand in thine, and all my pulses
	thrill to thee:
An indefinable, transporting joy, which lifts my
	soul in ecstacy;
Some charmed spell which life invigorates,
A potent power that wakens tenderness:
And truest comfort doth to me impart
An intuition of my woman’s heart,
Which seems of some lost love a counterpart
And adds its joy to human happiness.

The pent up fountains of my inner life gush
	tenderly to thee;
Thou call’st from out the deep recesses of my
	soul sweet sympathy;
I'm launched as ’twere into a maze of doubt—
I seem in retrospection’s cloudy land 
And misty phantoms shift and change to view,
And all the sombre past wears violet hue,
And shadowy forms appear which erst I knew
While I sit silently and hold thy hand.

Methinks I wander dreamily ’mid bow’rs of roses
	without thorns,
And e’en the air is conscious, with the beauty
	which the scene adorns,
And rippling brooks make music in my ears,
And lightest zephyrs whisper 'mid the trees,
As though the fairy elves made holiday,
And witching charms of nature’s melody
Envelop ev’ry sense in mystery,
And subtlest perfumes float upon the breeze.

Thus wrapt with silence as a mantle round my
	soul, thoughts come and go.
And answ’ring echoes from the distant past
	seem rippling soft and low.
And all the while I feel the magic touch
That brings such harmony of sight and sound
And charity and love my bosom swell.
With that intensity no tongue can tell,
And thy bright presence vivifies the spell;
And I am treading on enchanted ground.

Thou’rt gone! The vision’s fled! And moon and
	stars are dull, and sober night
Reigns all around in darken’d robes, and mocks
	as ’twere my lost delight;
And then some pitying angel softly speaks
Mortal ’twas but a glimpse of love and Heaven,
Back now to earth and thorny paths again, 
Stern duty holds thee with a tightened rein.
Plod on, and strive some victory to obtain,
And love eternal will to thee be given.
							E. B. W.


SOUVENIRS OF LILAC-TIME.

	FANCIFUL as it may seem to practical
people, who affect to ignore sentiment in
its relation to the wonderful, nevertheless I
have the courage to declare myself a de-
voted admirer, not only of the beautiful
and fantastic, but of the weird in nature.
It is a part of my composition, and per-
haps I am not altogether answerable if it is
not strictly “proper.” Lilacs are one of
my especial weaknesses, for they are as-
sociated with the earliest recollections of my
child-life and school-girl history. I never
see a lilac but it calls up tender memories
connected with the past, that thrill me
through and through like electricity. The
sweet-scented lilacs with their handsome
foliage, great “dark, green, heart-shaped
leaves. Artistic shubbery that forms many
a shady pathway round the homes of the
people; within whose shadow many a love-
tale has been told and troth plighted; the
very name is musically poetical. Love
letters have been hidden away from curious
eyes mid the luxuriant branches, to wait

[Column 2]
the coming of the ardent sweet-heart to
read his true-love’s words by starlight.
And, if I may tell it, the lilacbush oft holds
many a precious secret silently. How
pleasant to recall the sweet remembrances
that linger round the lilacs that bloomed in
the dear old garden and door-yard of our
early, happy home. A thousand other
beauties come with lilac time and all these
have their place in the affections and
mingle freely with external objects. All
have their associations and call up particu-
lar incidents, persons, or friendships each
one having its own peculiar music, which
finds its echo reverberating thro’ the brain
and the sight of one of these strikes the
chord or touches the note which wakens
responding symphony in the soul, and a
long train of half remembered indistinct
thoughts struggle for recognition in words.

	Spring time and beauty of wood, of field,
of grove and glen, songs of birds, hum of
bees, dance of butter-flies, and e’en the
melancholy croaking of the melancholy
frogs, the jocund and sparkling brooks, the
cerulean sky; these are synonyms of lilac-
time. Thewood violets we call wild, little,
pale delicate emblems of innocence, abound
at this season. How often have I gathered
them in my woodland rambles, and how
grateful was their exquisite fragrance!
How tenderly they appealed to the finer
elements of my nature as I wreathed them
with the soft, fresh, green vines, and my
own love of the fantastic and weird grew
more and more apparent as I listened with
keenest zest to the sounds of forest music.
Only “those who know,” can appreciate 
the feeling that comes to the soul awake to
all the fancies, as well as realities of a
deep wooded dell. The pearly drops of
morning dew on leaf and flower and blade
of grass, the charming atmosphere at sun-
rise, the rich delightful sunsets, the evening
twilight, the starlit nights, the mellow,
healing moonlight—all these are associated
with lilac-time. The early lilies, bright
and beautiful, always reminding us of the
Savior’s words “they toil not, neither do
they spin”—beautiful words which lead us
to “Consider.” In the lilacs the blue-birds
sing and sway on the light boughs and
swallows dart hither and thither, and O
how delightful the music mingles with the
happy thoughts of youth and maiden.
	Then too the apple-orchards bloom, and
daintily the pink and white perfumed leaves
bestrew the ground. The birds are build-
ing their nests and singing pretty songs to
woo their mates meantime, and thus it is
that lilac-time and the pale apple-bloom,
symbolize the love-making. To linger in
the orchards and drink in the sweet fra-
grance in the open air, while the happy
birds keep merry time to the music of fond
hearts, is to partake most freely at nature’s
banquet. It is good for us to commune
thus with nature’s heart, to cultivate in our
souls an intensity of affection for the artistic
works of a divine being, and become en-
deared to Him more and more through our
high appreciation, not only of his love for
us, but all that he has caused to be for our
joy and delectation. Communion with the
mysterious in what is termed the vegetable
kingdom, exalts one’s nature by very con-
tact, and, indeed, when one speaks of heav-
en, or paradise it is always as the place of
immortal flowers, and is associated in the
mind as artistically perfect in all its
characteristics. 			AUNT EM.


WHEN WOMEN VOTE.

	I DO not expect to see woman suffrage
come upon the stage arm in arm with the
millenium. If the movement effects any
reforms it will be the reclaiming of national
buildings and thoroughfares from their
masculine uncleanliness. I anticipate a
national house-cleaning such as this country
has never beheld; and the cleaners, a vast
army, fully armed with mops, brooms and
buckets, wiil be made up, not of men, but
of women. Why not? In private homes
the housekeeper is a woman, why should
not the housekeeper in our national homes
be also a woman?
	Under woman suffrage women will solve
the gigantic problem of street-cleaning by
cleaning the streets themselves. Again,
why not? In many foreign cities, in the
late hours of the night I have seen columns
and columns of women, brooms in hand,
grooming and polishing the streets so thor-
oughly that women pedestrians the next
day allowed their skirts to drag as they
would in their own drawing-rooms.
	Then, too, women would look more to
the sanitary condition of the abodes of the
poor; and best of all, we should see, at last,
woman receiving as much pay for the same
work as man.
	But, as I have said, I do not expect the
millenium. Suffrage alone, by itself, has
made men no better; why should it make
women better?—Dr. Jennie M. Lozier in
Demorest's Monthly.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	WOMAN suffrage has begun to make
progress even in France. On Jan. 20, the
French Senate, by a vote of 132 to 84, ex-
tended to women engaged in business the
right to vote for judges of the tribunals of
commerce.
	MISS PIER a fascinating lawyer of Mil-
waukee, and a graduate of the University
of Wisconsin Law School, was, on motion
of Col. Vilas, admitted to the Supreme
Court of the United States, Wednesday of
this week.
	“GIRLS are teachers in all our public
schools, their salaries and position are
largely decided by the political favor of
those who have votes. Those who have a
voice in the appointment of school superin-
tendents, commissioners of education and
trustees and the salaries of teachers, would
be more likely to receive favors than those
who have no political influence whatever.”
	“GIRLS have the same interest in good
government that their brothers have and
they have equally responsible duties to ful-
fil in the State, the church and the home,
hence their influence, and their opinions
should have equal weight in the framing of
laws, and the choice of law makers. It is
the right and duty of every girl to vote
when she attains the legal age of twenty -
one.”
	A SCHOOL suffrage bill has been introduced
in the Ohio House of Representatives by
Mr. Wood to extend the right of snffrage to
women, and to make them eligible for
school officers. Another bill introduced
provides that married women shall be
eligible to perform the duties of executrix
or administratrix whether married before or
after their appointment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY	FEBRUARY 1, AND 15, 1894.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A VERY important measure to women
that the Legislature has in hand is
to make women eligible to appointment on
Boards of Education and other Boards where
women are specially concerned or are in-
mates of Asylums, Homes etc.
	A MEMORIAL is before the House asking
that the Woman’s Industrial Home in this
City be given to the Women of the Ter-
ritory for a Woman’s Hospital, which is
certainly more in accord with the intention
of the appropriation made by Congress to
establish the Home,than any purpose which
Congress has been asked to consider here-
tofore.
	SISTERS Zina D. H. Young and Jane S.
Richards of the Relief Society Presidency
each celebrated her birthday anniversary on
Jan. 31st. Mrs. Young in Salt Lake City,
Mrs. Richards in Ogden. We have notices
for publication, but had to lay them over as
this issue is special matter relating to Utah
prepared to distribute at the Midwinter Fair
in San Francisco.
	THERE are several bills now pending in
the Legislature in which women should be
specially interested. One is a “School for
the Blind” which should by all means be
passed for if there is any class that are en-
titled to material help it is those who are
deprived of the blessing of light, and all
that can tend to make their life happier
should certainly be done.
	THERE is a bill before the House of
Representatives asking for a bounty on
cocoons, for the purpose of encouraging the
silk industry in Utah. It was thought by
women specially interested in the Silk
Exhibit in the Woman’s Building at the
World’s Fair which was such a gratifying
success,that to offer some inducement to the
people who raise cocoons, would be the
best method of fostering this important in-
dustry because it would go direct to the
producer. Too much cannot be done to
build up a home production that will cer-
tainly be, if effort is properly directed in
the enterprise, a remunerative business and
light work in which women and children
can engage in their own homes.
	THE Assembly of Women which con-
vened under the auspices of the Utah W.
S. A. on Saturday, February third was
quite a success in the way of numbers, and
the speeches were logical and eloquent and
it will no doubt be the means of awakening

[Column 2]
thought upon a subject, which has been
considered of little or no consequence to
many women who have always been pro-
tected and who may be counted as a
privileged class. The Hall was ap-
propriately decorated for the occasion, the
life-size pictures of two of the most distin-
guished champions of the cause hung on
either side of the speaker’s stand, and the
stars and stripes were displayed above the
platform. The President of the W. S. A.
called the meeting to order and the Secre-
tary read the call after which the President
stated the object of the meeting and the
“Battle Hymn of the Republic,” by Julia
Ward Howe, was sung by Miss Maude
Pratt and Miss Pearl Russell the audience
joining. Dr. Elvira S. Barney offered
prayer and the song “New America” was
enthusiastically rendered. Mr. John
Irvine favored the ladies’ by making a re-
port in short hand of the speeches in full.
The first speaker was Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young President of the National Woman’s
Relief Society, she was followed by Hon.
John E. Booth member of the Legislative
Assembly from Provo. Miss Babcock
recited that telling poem of Mrs. Browning’s
“A Woman’s Question” par excellence.
Dr. Hughes Cannon made a stirring address
closing it with a poem, which was quite
thrillingly rendered. Mrs. Bessie Dean
Allison who came from Ogden expressly to
be present, sang in her own sweet way,
“The Journey is Long,” accompanied on
the organ by Alvin Beesley. Dr. Has-
brouk followed in a five minutes speech
making some strong points in favor of suf-
frage, and George D. Pyper sung in his ex-
quisite style “The Araby’s Daughter,”
Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, President Davis Co.
W. S. A. next addressed the meeting, and
S. W. Richards Esq. made the closing and
very able address. The audience sang
“Help the Workingmen,” and the meeting
was adjourned. Full minutes of the
speeches will be given in ‘the next issue of
the paper.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF MUSIC IN UTAH.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON.

	WESTWARD the star of music takes its
way.  The sovereignty of the realm of
music in America had long been divided
among the older cities of the republic, when
in 1893, Utah, the young giant of the
West, entered the arena to contest for the
World’s Fair prizes, and sent to Chicago a
picked  choir of 250 voices to compete with
the artistic and famed choral organizations
of the Old and New World for the crowning
honors of the World’s Fair Eisteddfod.
Much praise was expressed for the nerve
and pluck of this ambitious but hitherto
undistinguished competitor, which was
changed to astonishment and wonder when
the Utah choir stepped triumphantly to the
second place, and almost snatched from the
brows of the Cymric bards the laurels of
their forefathers. The following history of
music in Utah will show the gradual de-
velopment of the divine art, that led to the
attainment of the present high standard of
musical taste and culture in this community,
and rendered possible the magnificent
achievements of the Utah Choir.
	In the growth of civilization and the un-
folding of social development, music and
her twin sister poetry take precedence of all
the arts, and present an unmistakable index

[Column 2]
to national character. The pioneer settlers
who crossed the Rocky Mountains to make
homes in the valley of the Great Salt Lake
were certain in the early stage of their
peculiar civilization to manifest the genius
of music, and the hosts of Israel beguiled
many an hour of their weary march across
the continent by singing the songs of Zion.
	The first musical organization formed in
Utah was a brass band, composed of fifteen
musicians, under the leadership of Captain
William Pitt, which commenced its labors
in 1850 and for several years furnished the
music on every anniversary and local cele-
bration, and assisted the first dramatic as-
sociation in its representations. In 1857
Dominico Ballo, an Italian, highly endowed
with the musical genius of his race came to
Salt Lake City, and electrified the people
with his performances on the clarionet, on
which instrument he was unrivalled, both
in tone, style and execution. Soon after
his arrival he organized “Ballo's Band” of
twenty instruments, viz, seven B flat
clarionets, one E flat, played by himself,
two piccolos, two first cornets, two second
cornets, one opheicleide, three brass horns,
one tenor, trombone and drums. This
combination created great excitement on its
first appearance, and continued to gain
power and renown by its skilful rendition
of some of the most difficult compositions
of the day. Ballo was a fine composer,
though but few of his works survive, and
his name will always be held in reverence
as the most cultured of the musical pioneers
of Utah.
	In 1853 David O. Calder, the pioneer
class teacher of vocal music came to Salt
Lake City, and settled over Jordan where
he taught the first singing school in the
Territory. In 1861 he organized two
classes of two hundred members each for
instruction in the Curwen tonic sol-fa me-
thod, which was the first introduction of
the system in America. He compiled, ar-
ranged and printed the class books used.
In 1862 Mr. Calder organized the Deseret
Musical Association, composed of two hun-
dred picked singers from the different classes
under his tuiton. This society gave several
concerts in the Theater and Tabernacle with
marked success, and during its existence
stimulated musical culture among the peo-
ple of Utah.
	In 1862, Professor Charles J. Thomas,
who had for years been associated with
some of the principal theater orchestras in
London, came to Salt Lake City, and at
once took charge of the orchestra at the
new Salt Lake Theater, then just opened,
and under his leadership it maintained for
several years a high standard of excellence.
As a conductor of the Tabernacle choir,
Professor Thomas did some excellent work,
and he long held a ruling musical position.
	Professor John Tullidge also deserves
mention at this time as a fine tenor singer
and composer. His name will be remem-
bered as long as his anthem “How beauti-
ful upon the mountains" delights the ears
of a Salt Lake audience. 
	The man who did most for the early
musical progress of Salt Lake City, and
the establishment of the legitimate profess-
ion is undoubtedly Professor George Care-
less. Born in London, and trained with
some of the greatest instrumentalists of the
day, under the batons of such masters as
Sir Michael Costa, Sir Jules Benedict, and
other famous conductors, Mr. Careless
brought to Salt Lake City in 1865 such
musical genius, brilliant execution and


[Column 1]
talent for leadership as produced a complete
revolution in musical circles and created
quite a furore of enthusiasm among the
music loving people of the community.
During the earlier years that he held the 
leadership of the Theater orchestra he pro-
duced a number of musical plays, including
Macbeth, The Brigand, Aladdin and
Cinderella, for the two latter he composed
the entire music, consisting of solos, duets
choruses and dramatic interludes. During
this engagement he conducted the first opera
ever given in Utah, the Grand Duchess, by
the Howson troupe,
	In 1875, the great musical event in the
city, was the performance of the oratorio of
the Messiah by the Philharmonic Society,
under the training and conductor-ship of
Professor Careless, with over two hundred
singers, and a full orchestra. The perfor-
mance was a great musical triumph, and 
was pronounced by the critics of the day a
presentation far superior both in its vocal
and orchestral excellence, to the perfor-
mance of the same oratorio in San Francis-
co with Madame Anna Bishop and or the
vocal celebrities in the principal parts. In
the instrumentation, the first violins and
the cornet obligato of Mr. Mark Croxall,
were particularly fine; while among the
vocalists, the palm of excellence belonged
without any question to Mrs. Careless, the
wife of Professor Careless, whose rendition
of “I know that my Redeemer liveth” was
simply perfection. Her pure, sweet, bell-
like tones, and her exquisite delivery, in-
tense with feeling, rose almost in this
selection to the exalted pitch of epic song.
The fact that this oratorio could be execut-
ed in such perfection by a local association,
and call out a high class audience fully
capable of appreciating such music, proves
that Salt Lake City even then was one of
the great musical centers of the world, a
pre-eminence that her subsequent history
proudly maintains.
	Professor Careless also conducted the cele-
brated Parepa Rosa Concerts in 1868, the
Anna Bishop concert in the Tabernacle
and the grand Wilhelmj concerts in the
Theater in 1880, and received from the
great virtuoso the highest praise and many 
marks of personal esteem.
	In 1879, Professor Careless gave Sulli-
van’s opera of “Pinafore” and later “The 
Mikado,” both brilliant successes, and
rendered exclusively by home talent. In
1885 he succeeded in organizing the largest
local orchestra ever brought together in this
city, consisting of forty-five members.
During his partnership in the musical busi-
ness with Mr. D. O. Calder, the firm im-
ported a large number of musical instru-
ments of all kinds, and published the “Salt
Lake Musical Times,” the first musical
publication west of Chicago. For fourteen
years Professor Careless was the trainer
and conductor of the Tabernacle choir, and
by his faithful and unwearied labors, laid
the foundation of that artistic excellence
which rendered its recent brilliant success
possible. To Mrs. Lavinia Careless, be-
longs by right of her rare genius the
highest niche of fame among our musical
stars. With a voice of phenomenal pur ity
and resonance, united with the most perfect
control and culture, she so educated Salt
Lake City audiences to quality and subli-
mity in music, that only a Patti could sing
here without being adversely compared
with her.
	In giving the musical history of Salt

[Column 2]
Lake City, prominent mention must be
made of the grand organ in the Tabernacle.
When it was commenced in 1866, all the
materials necessary for building it had to be
obtained from the East, and hauled across
the plains, and over the mountains in wag-
ons. It shows how deeply the love of
music was rooted in the hearts of the early
settlers in Utah, when in the face of such
almost insuperable obstacles, they planned
and successfully carried to completion the
erection of such a magnificent instrument,
at that time the second largest in the world.
The architect and designer of ths grand
organ was Mr. Joseph Ridges, who worked
on it for many years, but to Mr. Johnson
belongs the credit of bringing it to its pres-
ent perfect completion. It has four man-
uals, and pedal; fifty seven stops, and two
thousand six hundred and forty eight pipes,
supplied with wind by three large bellows,
operated by two hydraulic motors. In its
completed form, situated in one of the most
perfect acoustic buildings in the world, it is
justly an object of pride to our city and the
wonder and admiration of strangers. When
Professor Careless resigned the conductor-
ship of the Philharmonic Society, Professor
Radcliff came to Salt Lake City and took
the vacant position, and a year later gave
“The Creation” in the theater with marked
success. Professor Radcliff is a great
organist, and his recitals given on the
Tabernacle organ proves his complete
mastership of that noble instrument. In
1878, in order to meet the growing demand
for musical education, the Utah Conserva-
tory of music was opened in Salt Lake City
with Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson as director.
This institution devoted to the study of
music in all its branches, included system-
atic courses for the voice, and all instru-
ments in common use, with instruction in
Musical Theory, Notation, Tone Reading
and Elocution, and was for several years
the principal school of music in the Terri-
tory, many of its pupils are among our best
amateur musicians and vocalists today.
Among our local musicians also may be
mentioned Professor Joseph J. Daynes,
pupil of G. W. Morgan of New York, who
has presided at the Tabernacle organ since
1867, and Professor Orson Pratt, an able
teacher of the piano, harmony and counter-
point.
	Among our noted violin soloists Mr.
Willard Weihe stands in the front rank. A
protege of Ole Bull, for whom he played at
the early age of ten years, he has by force
of his genius and perseverance worked him-
self up to the highest position, and under
the tuition of the celebrated Vieuxtemps,
developed a marvelous technique that has
rarely been equaled except by a virtuoso.
His exquisite rendition of the works of the
great masters, is at once an inspiration, and
an artist’s dream.
	In 1881 Professor H. S. Krouse came to
Salt Lake City, and at once established him-
self as a first class musician and teacher,
and during his residence here has steadily
risen in the appreciation of all lovers of
classical music, until he now stands at the
head of his profession with a reputation
second to none as a teacher of piano and
the Higher Techniques. As a conductor
of opera and concert, he is a grand success
and his representation of Fatinitza was a
brilliant and artistic performance. In this
opera, Miss Jennie Hawley, (now Mrs. H.
C. Woodrow) a pupil of Professor Krouse,
took the title role, in which her exquisite

[Column 3]
contralto voice was heard to great advan-
tage. In setting before his pupils a high
standard of musical taste and culture, and
enconraging the study of the works of the
great masters, Professor Krouse has done
more for the advancement of classical and
High Art Music than any one else in this
community, and many of his pupils have
become creditable teachers, among whom
special mention must be made of Mrs.
Joseph McIntyre, at present a prominent
and successful teacher in Oneida N. Y. The 
annual recitals given by Professor Krouse’s
pupils are classical entertainments of a
high order. The programme for the com-
ing recital includes concertos by Henselt,
Chopin and Mendelssohn with orchestral
accompaniment on second piano, also com-
positions by Liszt, Liebling, Beethoven,
Rubenstein, Gottschalk and Wieniawski,
rendered by a number of his advanced
pupils who give promise of great musical
attainments in the near future.
	A long list of performers on piano, or-
gan, violin and other instruments might be
given, which together with a number of -
vocalists of unusual excellence justify the
claim that we are in Salt Lake City especial-
ly a music loving and appreciative people,
and that no Territory, and but few States
in our land can equal Utah in the progress
made in the divine art. Especially in this
the truth with regard to choral music.
Salt Lake leads with the largest church
choir in the world—the Tabernacle Choir
with 600 enrolled members—the Choral
Society three hundred in number, thirty
choirs belonging to the various churches in
the city, averaging at least twenty voices
each, making a grand total of fifteen hun-
dred choristers in this city alone. Add to
these the two hundred and fifty choirs in
the various towns and settlements together
with all the Sunday school choristers in the
Territory and Utah may well claim to be
the land of music, song and sunshine.
	To Professor Evan Stephens, a practical
musician and composer of considerable
native genius as well as professional train-
ing, is due the success of the general move-
ment in class teaching in the Sunday
schools of the Territory. Possessed of
rare personal magnetism, a born musical
leader with perfect choral control, he sways
the hundreds of children on the stage with
a few simple movements of his baton,
maintaining a perfect tempo, with the most
exquisite variation of forte and piano. The
concert of National songs given in the
Tabernacle on February 22nd 1893 by
twelve hundred children under fifteen years
of age, was repeated seven times to large
and enthusiastic audiences, and demonstra-
ted the possibility of a high standard of
musical training for children, thus educat-
ing a generation of musicians who will in
future years maintain Utah’s musical supre-
macy in the Rocky Mountains. The great-
est achievement of Professor Stephen’s
career has been the training and successful
competition of 250 members of the Taber-
nacle choir at the World’s Fair Eisteddfod.
The three competitive choruses were “Wor-
thy is the Lamb,” (Messiah) “Blessed are
the men,” (Elijah) and “Now the impet-
uous torrents rise,” (David & Saul) and
these had been practiced for many months
by the trained choirs who entered the con-
test for the World’s Fair prizes. The Utah
choir who had less than three months for
preparation, sang the numbers without
copies, and carried off the second prize of
$1000. The journey of the choir to and


from Chicago was a perfect ovation. Per-
formances were given in six cities en route,
and the greatest enthusiasm was manifested
by all the people who attended their con-
certs, while the press was unstinted in
praise of their efforts. "Utah's triumph in
Chicago" is only the stimulus to greater
efforts and the pledge of more brilliant suc-
cesses in the future. Proud as we may
justly be of our past musical achievements
and present standing, our future possibilities
are far more glorious, and under the leader-
ship of such artists as Krouse, Careless,
Stephens, Radcliff and Weihe, Utah is des-
tined to become world famed for her un-
equaled musical excellence and progress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE DRAMA IN
UTAH.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON.

	MUSIC and the Drama are two of the
most powerful agencies of civiliza-
tion. Brigham Young, the leader of
modern Israel in its exodus to these moun-
tains, with his profound knowledge of hu-
man nature, typed with his New England
sagacity, evinced consummate wisdom in
supplying his people with the means of
social and physical revivification. The
weariness of travel, and the labors of mak-
ing new homes, were enlivened by joyous
music, familiar songs, with the merry
dance and social ball. Arrived in the valley
of the Great Salt Lake the dance to the
Mormon, became almost like an institution,
and the ball a social sacrament. Out of
the Nauvoo brass band which left Nauvoo
with Brigham Young indirectly grew our
first theatrical company. An amalgama-
tion was effected between the members of
the band and certain ladies and gentlemen
possessing dramatic instincts and predilec-
tions, several of whom had also been con-
nected with theatrical, before they came in-
to the isolation of these mountains. The
project of organizing a company with a
combination of the musical and dramatic
elements, received the hearty sanction of
Brigham Young, and he at once became
the patron of the Salt Lake stage. The
first dramatic company organized consisted
of H. B. Clawson, James Ferguson, Phi
Margetts, John Kay, H. K. Whitney, Rob1
Campbell, R. T. Burton, William Clayton
and others; the ladies were Miss Orum,
Miss Judd (afterwards Mrs. Clawson) and
Miss Mary Badlam. Of these, only the
first three had received any professional
training. It bore the name of the
“Musical and Dramatic Company.” The
orchestra was composed of members of the
Nauvoo Band.
	There was a company now, but no
theater, nor even a hall of capacity sufficient
to give a public performance, while the
community were socially striving for public
amusements and recreation to enliven the
isolation of “a thousand miles from every-
where,” as their locality was then descri-
bed. The majority of the citizens in 1851
and 1852 were fresh from a land of theaters.
England, of thirty-five years ago was still
the England of Shakespear, and not of
Boucicault. There were those in Salt Lake
City who had seen Macready, some who
had seen John and Charles Kemble, their
sister, Sarah Siddons,and Edmund Kean on
the stage in their native land. The major-
ity of the British people in the valley at
that period were from London, Birming-

[Column 2]
ham, Manchester, Leeds, Yorkshire and
Edinburgh, where the common people for
generations have been accustomed to go to
the theater and the philharmonic concerts,
to see the best of acting and hear the
divinest singing for a few pence. Such a
community could not possibly have got
along without their theater, nor been con-
tent with their isolation, without something
to awaken pleasurable reminiscences of
their native land Their sagacious head
sensed all this and he at once gave to the
newly formed “Musical and Dramatic Com-
pany,” the “Old Bowery” where the con-
gregation of saints met for Sabbath wor-
ship, and it was there—in the only temple
or tabernacle Zion had in those days—that
home theatricals took their rise. If the
Church stooped in this, she but gave her
helping hand to civilization, without losing
aught of her own caste, for those actors
and musicians were her own ordained elders
and high priests. The first play ever
produced it Utah was one called “The
Triumph of Innocence” in which Mr. H.
P. Richards took a leading part, but this
was previous to the existence of any organ-
ized dramatic association. Historical interest
is always associated with the first programme
of every notable institution, therefore we
mention here the first cast of the first dra-
matic company of Utah. The play pro-
duced on the occasion was Robert Macaire.
The cast was as follows:
Robert Macaire...............John Kay.
Jaques Strop,............H. B. Clawson.
Pierre,................Phillip Margetts.
Marie,......................Miss Orum.
Clementina,..............Miss M. Judd.
Several other plays were produced during
the season and it is said they were creditab-
ly performed by the company. More than
a thousand persons witnessed each of these
performances, showing that the theatrical
audiences in the “Old Bowery” in the win-
ter of 1851-2 were larger than the average
audiences in 1885 with a Madame Ristori
playing her magnificent role of historical
plays in the “Big Theater.”
	The company played in the “Old
Bowery” for two years during which time
a number of high class plays were pro-
duced in one of which, “The Stranger” the
brilliant James Ferguson took the title
role.
	In 1851 the company was re-organized
under Bishop Raleigh as president, and
named the “Deseret Dramatic Association.”
In 1852 the historic “Social Hall” was
built and opened by the association, with
the performance of Buhver’s classical play
of the “Lady of Lyons.” A splendid or-
chestra under the direction of Professor
Ballo contributed to the eclat of the oc-
casion. The association now numbered
among its members, John T. Caine, David
McKenzie, D. O. Calder, W. C. Dunbar,
Henry Maiben and others; and with this
added strength were enabled to cast first
class plays, but after a few years the Utah
war broke up for a time both the theatrical
performances and the Dramatic Association
itself.
	On the return of Phil. Margetts from
England, he organized a company under
the name of the “Mechanic’s Dramatic
Association,” and with Harry Bowring,
Henry McEwan, Mrs. Marian Bowring and
others revived the social life of the people,
and began a series of performances in a
room fitted up in H. E. Bowring’s house,
with stage and scenery painted by W. C.

[Column 3]
Morris. This was the first place in Utah
that bore the distinctive appellation of
Theater, and marks the birth of the dra-
matic era proper, and led to the building
of the Salt Lake Theater, and the re-organ-
ization of the Deseret Dramatic Association.
	It was just at the outbreak of the civil war
in America that the theatrical history pro-
per of our city commenced.
	The Utah war was a memory of the past,
Camp Floyd was evacuated, all in Zion
was peace, for though the nation was en-
gaged in war neither Utah nor California
had the honor of taking part in it. In 1861,
our citizens saw a colossal building in pro-
cess of erection and it was known that
Brigham Young designed to give the Mor-
mons a great theater, one of the best in
America, and one that in its appointments
and accessories should bear favorable com-
parison with the theaters of the East
	The Salt Lake Theater was opened to the
public on March 6th 1862, and stands a
monument of our Rocky Mountain civili-
zation, emulating in many respects its
prototype, the Old Globe Theater of Lon-
don which under Shakespeare’s manage-
ment, voiced the dramatic genius of a new
epoch. 
	The ceremony of the dedication of the
new theater, was the remarkable event of
the opening, and nothing in the history of
the English and American stage is so
unique in its object and sentiment. Re-
served seats were placed before the curtain
for the First Presidency and officials of the
Church, and at the appointed hour Brigham
Young as president of the Dramatic As-
sociation called the house to order. The
choir sang the hymn “Lo, on the mountain
tops appearing,” and President Daniel H.
Wells offered the dedication prayer in which
he imploud the blessing of the most High
upon the building and all its appointments,
and upon the actors and actresses and all
who perform in it, and dedicating the whole
to virtue, sobriety, and excellence, for the
glory of God and the prosperity and good
of this people. After the prayer the or-
chestra and choir performed the “Star
Spangled Banner” and the President gave
an impressive address on the true mission of
the drama. Other addresses followed inter-
spersed with songs and music.
	Not in the whole history of the stage,
ancient or modern, was ever a theater thus
endowed as a sacred dramatic temple for the
people. Probably Brigham Young at that
time had never heard the text of the play
of Hamlet, yet he described the object of
the drama as it was designed by him for the
Salt Lake Theater very much like the spirit
and exposition of Hamlet to the players;
“The purpose of playing, whose end, both
at the first, and now, was, and is, to hold
as ’twere the mirror up to nature; to show
virtue her own feature, scorn her own im-
age, and the very age and body of the
time, his form and pressure,” and it may
be regarded as one of the strange things of
dramatic history that Brigham Young, a
man of no art culture but what was self
evolved, the high priest of a despised
church, should have lifted the theater to the
conception of the great high priests of
dramatic art, and given it its proper place
alongside the church, as one of the great
teachers of humanity, as powerful in its in-
fluence on the intellectual, as the church is
on the spiritual development of society.
	The opening pieces played in the Salt
Lake Theater on March 8, 1862 were the
“Pride of the Market” and “State Secrets,”


[Column 1]
and the first season under the management
of Clawson and Caine was a gratifying success.
	Before the opening of the second season, 
the veteran actor Mr. T. A. Lyne was sent
for by his former pupil, Manager Clawson,
and engaged as tutor to the company. Dur-
ing this season the following fine plays were
given. "The Honeymoon" with John T.
Caine as Duke Aranza, Phil Margetts as
the Mock Duke; "Virginus" with Bernard
Snow in the title role; "Damon and
Pythias" with Lyne as Damon, and "Pizarro"
with John T. Caine, Lyne, J. F. Simmons
Mrs. Marian Bowring in the cast. Later
on, Lyne played Virginius and again Da-
mon, in which he has been acknowledged
to have had no equal in America, excepting
Forrest himself, then as Shylock in the
"Merchant of Venice" gave a fine exposi-
tion of "the jew that Shakespeare drew"
in which Edmund Kean, won the scepter of
the English stage. In the third season
1863-4 the Irwins reigned and gave a great
variety of plays, being well supported by
the home company. In the "Colleen
Bawn" Dave McKenzie scored a triumph
as Danny Mann; and his impersonation has
never been excelled on the Salt Lake stage.
	In 1864 Mr. George Pauncefort, an ac-
complished English actor, with Mrs.
Florence Bell, came to Salt Lake City, and
alternated his light classics against T. A.
Lyne's grander, statelier parts of the old 
school, giving to the public a pleasing 
variety of the old legitimate and new legi-
timate class of plays. This refined and
finished artist gave as his opening play
"The Romance of a Poor Young Man" in 
which he wrought out one of the most ac-
complished and natural works of dramatic
art. Lyne followed the next night with
the "Merchant of Venice" and the two 
artists held the boards alternately during
the season of 1864-5. Among the plays
given during this engagement were "Mac-
beth," "Hamlet," "Don Cesar de Bazan,"
"Belphegor," "Damon and Pythias," and
under the stimulus afforded by such finish-
ed performances, the stock company at-
tained to much greater excellence and were
capable of executing star plays of the 
second class. The queen of the Salt Lake
stage was undoubtedly Julia Dean Hayne,
who made her debut in Salt Lake City in
1865 in the play of "Camille" a represen-
tation that stirred the heart of the Theater
going public of the city to profound hom-
age to her genius and art. So cordially did
she reciprocate this kind feeling, that she
remained here nearly two years, swaying
the scepter over the local company and
educating them by her brilliant example.
Her repertoire included "Medea" "Lucretia
Borgia" "Lady Macbeth" "School for 
Scandal" "Parthenia" in "Ingomar" "Lady
of Lyons" "Evadne" and other plays of a 
similar class, every one of which in her
hands were works of the highest dramatic
art.
	During this decade the stars of the stock
company were Miss Alexander, Miss Adams,
Miss Lockhart, Nellie Colebrook, David
McKenzie, James Hardie, John Lindsay
and Phil Margetts. With the retirement o[-]
David McKenzie from the stage in 1869, the
old Deseret Dramatic Company may be
said to have ended its career. From 1870
to 1880 the theatrical business in Salt Lake
City declined both in interest and prestige.
The new combination did not come up to 
the old company in talent or enthusiasm,
and their performances interspersed with

[Column 2]
the engagements of a few notable profes-
sionals passing across the continent, served
just to keep alive the dramatic spirit, which
now awaited its re-incarnation in the Home
Dramatic Club of recent fame.
	This club the outcome of the Wasatch
and Azalea Literary societies numbered
among its members, the sons and daughters
of many of the old time histrionic cele-
brities, a generation of amateurs, who drew
their first draughts of dramatic inspiration
from witnessing the performances of twenty
five years ago. Under the tuition of one
of the former-day stars, Mr. David
McKenzie, the club developed a marked
degree of dramatic ability, and when they 
made their first bow to a Salt Lake audience,
in "The Romance of a Poor Young Man"
their success revived the recollection of the
former triumphs of our local artists. The
cast was as follows:

Manuel .............. Laron Cummings.
Dr. Desmarets ............ O. F. Whitney.
Mons De Berannes ........ H. M. Wells.
Gasper Laroque .......... J. D. Spencer.
M. Nouret ................ C. S. Burton.
Alain ...................... H. Horsley.
Marguerite Laroque .. Miss Lottie Claridge.
Mlle Helonin ...... Mrs. Della Cummings.
Mad. Aubrey .......... Miss Lida Wells.
Mad Laroque ........ Mrs. S. H. Clawson.
Christine ............ Little Ivy Clawson.

	The performance was a complete success,
and was presented again and again to still
larger audiences than the one that greeted 
their opening night, thus proving that the 
decadence of home drama was not due to
lack of appreciation on the part of a people
who had loved the Salt Lake stage from
the night when the footlights first blazed
there.
	The personel of the new club did much
to pre-dispose the public in its favor, and
though as years passed on, changes were
made in the organization, the names of the
members remained much the same, younger
branches of the family taking the places of
those who retired for various reasons to
private life. Instead of the heavy dramas
and tragedies which afforded the triumphs
of early days, they aimed at modern me-
thods. For the fire and passion of the
romantic and classical plays they substituted
the finesse and polish of emotional dramas
and eccentric comedies of the present
school, and from the time this club first
produced the "Romance" until the present,
it has continued to be the only dramatic
organization of importance to which the
city could lay claim. During the twelve
years of its existence, the club has presen-
ted a pleasing variety of plays with un-
wavering success. Their repertoire includes
"The Two Orphans" "Rosedale" "Pique"
"Extremes" "The Life of an Actress"
"Saratoga" "Diplomacy" "Storm Beaten"
"The Silver king" " The Banker's Daugh-
ter" "The Green Lanes of England"
"O. K. G." "Lights o'London" "Con-
fusion" and "Hazel Kirke." In "Con-
fusion," which is certainly the most finish-
ed piece of dramatic work ever done by the 
club, Lottie Claridge the leading lady, made
her greatest hit as Lucretia Trickeby, and
John D. Spencer as Christopher Blizzard
gave one of his most delightful characteri-
zations. Among the other members of the 
club (who by the way are all Utah born)
who have distinguished themselves might
be also mentioned Mr. H. M. Wells, the 
leading man, whose rendition of the parts
of Grimaldi in the "Life of an Actress,"

[Column 3]
Bob Sackett in Saratoga, and Christian
Christianson in Storm Beaten are artistic
triumphs; Mr. B. S. Young, who fills a line
of old men, character and comedy delinea-
tions, in a style peculiarly his own; and
Mr. H. G. Whitney who as manager of the
club, has contributed in no small degree to
its financial and dramatic success. Miss
Edith Clawson, might almost be said to
have been cradled on the stage; she was the
reigning "infant" for years, and her por-
trayal of Prince Arthur when Junius Bru-
tus Booth played King John, was one of 
Salt Lake's early theatrical sensations.
When the veteran Couldock was brought
from New York to play an engagement of
six performances with the club in Hazel
Kirke, Edith Clawson took the title role,
and in it soon merited recognition of her
talents as an emotional actress. Her sister,
Birdie Cummings is deservedly popular in 
soubrette roles, in which she has achieved 
decided success, while Ivy Clawson, an-
other member of the same talented family,
is a pleasing actress in ingenue and boy's
parts.
	The club has frequently played, with pro-
fessionals, and has always striven conscien-
tiously to present a high class of theatrical
attractions, and to produce its plays up to
the very best standard. In this endeavor
they have been ably seconded by Mr. C. S.
Burton, the present manager of the Salt
Lake Theater who shows no disposition to
allow the high purposes which animated its
distinguished founder to be swerved from,
and under his management, the theater
maintains its prestige as one of the most
popular dramatic temples of the Western
slope.
	In 1882 the Walker opera house, an ele-
gant and artistically arranged bijou theater
was opened, and until its destruction by 
fire a few years ago, was the scene of many
local and travelling dramatic and operatic
successes.
	Salt Lake City is universally conceded to
be "the best show town in the West" pos-
sessing the best amateur dramatic and
musical organizations in the country, at the
same time, the dramatic taste, critical dis-
cernment, and artistic culture of the com-
munity foreshadow a glorious art future un-
folding for Utah, when one of the brightest
niches in the world's temple of fame will 
be accorded to the genius of the land of the
Honey Bee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GROWTH OF WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	AT this time, when woman suffrage is
under consideration by the Massachussets
Legislature, a summary of the votes on
suffrage taken during the past year in other
State Legislatures may be of interest. 
	The Colorado House voted 39 to 21, and 
the Senate two to one, in favor of granting
women full suffrage, and it was ratified by
popular vote by 6,347 majority. In Ari-
zona, a full suffrage bill passed the House
17 to 6, and was lost by two votes in the
Senate. In Maine, a municipal suffrage
bill passed the Senate 16 to 13, and was de-
feated in the House by nine votes.
	The Kansas House voted 94 to 17, and
the Senate 32 to 5, in favor of a full suf-
frage amendment, which is now pending.
In Nebraska full suffrage was defeated in
the House, 46 to 42, and municipal suffrage
passed the House, 45 to 36, and was indefi-
nitely postponed in the Senate, 17 to 15.
	A full suffrage amendment passed the
Minnesota Senate, 31 to 19. It came up in


the House so late that it could only be
passed by suspending the rules. The
House voted, 54 to 44, to suspend the rules
in its favor, but failed to do so for want of
the necessary two-thirds.
	In North Dakota a full suffrage amend-
ment passed the Senate, 20 to 9, and the
House, 33 to 22, but was afterwards recon-
sidered in the House and lost.
	In Illinois a bill to repeal school suffrage
failed, no one voting for it except the
mover; and a bill to extend township suf-
frage to women passed the Senate, 27 to 11,
but failed in the House.
	In Michigan a bill granting municipal
suffrage to women, with an educational
qualification, passed the House, 57 to 25,
and the Senate, 18 to 11, and was signed
by the Governor, but was set aside by the
Supreme Court as unconstitutional.
	In California a school suffrage bill passed
the House, 42 to 27, and the Senate, 31 to
6, but was vetoed by the Governor. In
Vermont, where, in the constitutional con-
vention of 1870, a proposition for woman
suffrage received only one vote, a municipal
suffrage bill passed the last House, 149 to
83, and came so near passing the Senate
that a change of five votes would have
carried it. In New Mexico full Suffrage
passed the House by a large majority, but
did not reach a vote in the Senate.
	In Arkansas school suffrage passed the
Senate, but was laid on the table in the
House. In Connecticut a school suffrage
bill passed both branches of the Legislature,
was signed by the Governor, and is now
the law.
	In New York the last Legislature extend-
ed to women the right to vote for county
school commissioners, in addition to the
right to vote for ordinary school officers,
which the women have had since 1880.
But the Supreme Court has just set aside
the new law granting county school com-
missioners suffrage as unconstitutional.
	In Wyoming, the House of Representa-
tives, by a unanimous vote, after twenty-
five years’ experience, declared that woman
suffrage had worked well, and advised all
other States to adopt it.
	In Nova Scotia full suffrage was defeated
by 3 votes. In New Zealand full suffrage
passed both branches of the Legislature,
was signed by the Governor and is now the
law. In the British House of Commons,
suffrage was extended to all women, both
married and single, by the parish councils
bill, against the opposition of the govern-
ment, by a vote of 147 to 126. The House
of Commons has since voted to make
women eligible also to serve on the London
vestries.
	In our own country, while the only ac-
tual victories of the suffragists during the
past year have been in Colorado and Con-
necticut, the close votes in many other
States show the growth of public senti- 
ment upon the question.
	Years ago, when woman suffrage was
much more unpopular than now, Bishop
Gilbert Haven was asked by a friend
whether it were true that he had been speak-
ing at a suffrage meeting. “Yes,” an-
swered the bishop, “I don’t want to fall in
at the rear of this reform. I propose to
march with the profession!” A. S. B. Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISS CONSTANCE FENIMORE WOOLSON,
the novelist, died Jan. 21 at Venice. She
was a grand-niece of James Fenimore
Cooper.


[Column 1]
MASS. SUFFRAGE HEARING, 1894.

EXTRACT.

	We ask that women may vote in order
that they may represent themselves, that
they may represent their class. They have
interests to protect as women. Let me in-
stance a case which occured within a week.
The police broke up a disorderly house, ar-
rested a large number of women, and an
equally large number of men, and what fol-
lowed? Every woman was sent to Sher-
born prison; every man was released with-
out penalty. Is that justice? We believe
in one standard of morality for men and
women. There are questions of marriage,
of divorce, of the right of a mother to her
children, of the protection of young girls,
of the rights and interests of widows and
orphans. Why, gentlemen, after forty
years of agitation, there is not a married
woman in Massachusetts who lives with
her husband, that has any legal control or
custody of her children. The husband
may take his young daughter and place
her behind a bar to sell liquor in the city of
Boston, and the wife can have no remedy
unless she leaves her husband, effects a
legal separation, breaks up the family, and
then goes to the Judge of probate and asks
for her child. Is that justice? Can you
imagine that this law in regard to the
custody of children would not be rectified
by this very Legislature, if women had
suffrage? The interests of women are not
represented and are not consulted as they
should be. Not because men desire to do
injustice to women, but because we have
our own affairs to look after. In conclusion
I appeal to you for a moment as members
of political parties. We are all party men;
we ought to be, if we believe in the
principles of our party. Now both parties
today are on trial in Massachusetts, much
more than woman suffrage is on trial.
The political result of municipal suffrage,
when it comes, will largely depend upon
the political complexions of the vote by
which the Legislature confers it. If an
equal proportion of Democrats and Re-
publicans extend suffrage to women, as
they ought to do, for it ought to be the
unanimous vote of both parties, then this
question would have no particular party
significance. Both parties would be up-
lifted. The spirit of both would be
changed by the introduction of the
intelligent womanhood of these parties.
	But let this great act of justice be done
by the Republicans or let it be done by the
Democrats, the other party opposing, and
the party that does the act of justice will
deserve to receive and will receive an im-
mense accession of strength through its
action. Some of you are Republicans,
some of you are Democrats, but which
ever you be, you owe it to your party (be-
cause you believe that the success of your
party is the success of good government)
to see that you get enough men of your
party to vote for it to prevent its having
any political significance against you. It is
suicidal for either party to oppose woman suf-
rage for fear it may injure them. An act of
justice never will. The shortsightedness of
opponents seems to me amazing. Politicans
go round soliciting votes, even buying
votes in some cases, and using every in-
fluence. And here are 500,000 votes in
Massachusetts today, which are going to be
brought into the government. It is for

[Column 2]
you to decide whether your party shall
have its full proportion of them, or not.
But whether you are a Republican or a
Democrat, you are an honest man, and you
want to do justice. And when you give us
this act, give it in a straightforward way, as
an act of Legislature.
H. B. Blackwell.


RELIEF SOCIETY SECRETARIES.

	THE secretaries of the several branches
of the Relief Societies of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion are urgently requested to
send in their reports before the 20th of the
present month. Address—WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT office.
	MARGARET A. CAINE, Sec.


MRS. ANNA AUSTIN was recently elected
Mayor of Pleasanton, Kan.
	THE full enfranchisement of women in
New Zealand has stimulated the friends of
woman suffrage throughout Australia. A
very demonstrative meeting was recently
held at Sidney. It appears that the chair-
manship of Sir Henry Parkes did not pre-
vent the rowdy element from interrupting
some of the men speakers to whom they
were politically opposed. The women ora-
tors, Mrs. Wolstenholme, Mrs. Lawson and
Mrs. Summerfield appear to have had no
trouble and their splendid speeches were
complimented by Sir Henry, who said that
he had never in parliamentary debate
heard three speeches on one side to equal
theirs.


DUNFORD'S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday, January 29th and continuing for
30 days. 
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

R.K. THOMAS
26,28,30, and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House. 
R.K. THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS 
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
ons covered while you wait.  Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
		Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
