VOL. 22. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15 AND MAY 1, 1894. No. 16.


CONTENTS:
	AN Etching—Anna D. Thrall. Woman’s
Suffrage Column. Notes and News. Some
Pictures at the Art Palace in the White City—
Alfred Lambourne. Birthday Party—C. Y. Pack.
Parowan Stake—Jane Parry Mackleprang.
Question—Mary A. W. Pratt. Silk Question—
M A. Till. National Council of Women of the
United States—Rachel Foster Avery. In Rural
England—A Story. Woman’s Patriotism—Flo.
R. S. Reports. In Memoriam—Com. Obituary
—Sarah S. Reese.
	EDITORIAL:—Relief Society Conference.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—The Origin of Life—E. R. Snow.
Jesse W. Fox—R. M. F. Nabbie—E. R. Shipp.


THE ORIGIN OF LIFE. 

	(Written for A. M. Blanchard, by Zion's
favorite poetess after her return from Palestine.)

MAN’S tide of existence is fearfully changed—
From God and from nature, how widely es-
	tranged!
Vice dandled by fashion, mocks Nature’s de-
	signs,
And existence is lessened as virtue declines.
We wake into being—how hopeless at birth!
How short, at the longest, our stay on the earth!
Too short to develop (we merely begin)
The germ of the Deity planted within.
As a father transmits from the father to son,
So God, our Creator, our Father, has done;
No attribute God in His glorified form 
Possesses, but man, too, inherits the germ.
Though frail and imperfect unlearned and unwise,
He’s endowed with capacities needful to rise
From an embryo state, onward, upward—at
	length—
To a fulness of knowledge, of wisdom and
	strength.
He’s his own acting agent with freedom to
	choose—
With power to accept, and with power to refuse,
With a future before him, the sequel of life,
To which this is a preface, with consequence
	rife.
He should learn how to strengthen this life’s
	feeble chain,
And bring back the longevity rightful to gain
Develop ability, greatness and worth,
By improving himself, and improving the earth.
He should squander no talent, no health and no
	time,
All, all are important—age, manhood and prime;
As we sow we shall reap—what we earn we’ll
	receive—
We'll be judged by our work—not by what we
	believe.
We’re now laying foundations for what we shall
	be,
For life’s current extends to Eternity’s sea;
And whatever debases, ennobles, refines,
By our acts, we imprint in indelible lines.
We’re the offspring of God. We should never
	degrade
The form which at first in His image was made;
If we honor our beings and callings while here,
We’ll secure an admission to life’s higher sphere.
In the likeness of Deity gracefully formed—
With His own noble attributes richly adorned;
For a grand immortality man is designed—
Perfected in body and perfect in mind.
	ELIZA R SNOW.


[Column 1]
AN ETCHING.

	IT was a bright, clear morning in the
Wasatch range. The lofty, Alpine valley
near the head of the canyon, high up among
the peaks, lay gleaming in the morning sun.
White stemmed quaking aspens stood out
in sharp relief against a background of 
dark pines. Their pale green leaves, shot
through with golden sunbeams, trembled
lightly in the gentle breeze which came like
God's breath from the cool gulches and the
windy heights. Above and beyond the
fringe of trees stretched an unbroken for-
est, and still beyond, yet in the near distance,
rose rocky cliffs and snowy summits, out-

[picture of Lake Annette]

lined in grey and white against the deep
blue sky. The deeper blue of the little
glacial lake, a natural reservoir of icy crystal
water, fed by everlasting snows, rock-
bound on every side, and imprisoned from
below by a confused barrier of broken gran-
ite, dimpled in the morning breeze, and
smiled in a faint and fitful way wherever
the sunbeams glinted here and there over
its fretted surface.
	The sparse yet vital, wild life, peculiar
to high elevations within the timber limit,
made itself heard and seen on every hand.
In every forest opening a swiftly flitting
wing; from every thicket an occasional
clear bird-note; across the little waste of
broken rock the stealthy snake-like move-
ment of the weasel, and from its remote re-
cesses the peculiar, plaintive chirp of the
little rock-rabbit. 

[Column 2]
	Out of the forest comes the far-piercing
cry of a brood of young hawks quarreling in
their nest at the top of some towering red-
spruce; two slowly circling specks on the
sky just above yonder rocky peak show to
the practised eye where, in a blasted pinion
tree, a pair of eagles guard their eyrie; and
upon every sunny Alp, in every dark glen,
by every steep mountain trail, along the
banks of every snow-fed streamlet, and
over the little open valley, smiling in the
sunlight, gleams of color and faint, rare
odors revealed the presence of countless
flowers of a thousand kinds. Above all, a
tonic air, like wine, vital and exhilarating,
giving health, strength, hardihood and joy.
	Along the side of the moun-
tain, and across the Divide,
winds a steep and rocky path.
Up this trail a young man
and a maiden were slowly
toiling, stopping now and then
to recover breath and gaze out
upon the wonderful world
below. To the fisherman,
angling for rainbow trout in
his little boat on the lake,
the trail is but a slender
thread drawn diagonally up-
ward across the face of the
overhanging mountain and
the figures of the young man
and maiden appear like two
small beads moving along this
thread, so close together as
to seem scarcely separable.
But the fisherman has seen
them before, wandering along
a wood-road, hand in hand-
he, straight, strong and stur-
dy as the mountain pine; she,
slender, sweet and graceful as
the wild columbine nodding
to her on its tall stem as she 
stooped to pluck it.
	Was it the golden light of
the early morning on that of
early love that shone in the
faces of these two?
	For them the world was
new and life was new, and
both were full of brightness
and beauty, of poetry and
promise. They paused just
where a fall of rock had car-
ried away the young trees from the outer
edge of the trail, thus affording an unbrok-
en outlook. Far below them lay the silver
lake, fringed with its dark and sheltering
pines, and on its surface quietly rocked the
boat in which the fisherman still stood cast-
ing for the coy and fickle trout. Beyond
the lake stretched a broad Alpine meadow,
carpeted with young wild grass, and dotted
at its farthermost edge with now and then a
rustic cottage, half hidden in a clump of
aspens or of pines. Cattle were grazing
here and there and a ribbon of blue, lined
with light green, marked the course of the
willow-fringed mountain stream. Beyond
the meadow, at a point where the hidden
trail left the forest and came out upon a
wooded road, a long line of pack mules and
horses came slowly into view, and the faint
tinkle of their bells rose up from the dis


tance blended with the shouts of happy
children.
	It was as if the two lovers stood above
and apart from this little world, and looked
down upon it, even as they looked out upon
life, through a clear and crystal glass.
	Broad, beautiful, bright, and bathed in
the atmosphere of youthful hope and antici-
pation, so stretched this lovely scene, and
so lay life before them.
	Above on the mountain trail stood the
girl who had once, her lover by her side,
looked out upon a little world of bright-
ness, warmth and beauty.
	Now, the sun was hidden, the sky grey
and gloomy, the Alpine meadows sodden
with recent rains, the peaks shrouded in
vast veils of vapor which lifted in places
only to grow heavier and darker elsewhere.
The white stemmed aspens now seemed
like ghosts, gleaming wierdly
through the driving mist, while
the old, dead trees, blasted by
lightning or blackened by for-
est fires, stood like unburied
skeletons, and stretched forth
uncanny arms toward the
cloud wraiths; flying above
them. Flashes of lightning
still threw an occasional lurid
light over the dark pictures,
while peals of thunder rolled
down the gulches and shook
the crags and peaks to their
very foundations. At the
feet of the girl lay the scat-
tered columbines, beaten from
their stems by the violence of
the storm.
	White-faced and desolate
she gazed gloomily at the dark
lake beneath her, or at the
cloud fringes clinging to the
mountain summits, or from
time to time glanced fearfully
among the sombre pines of
the surrounding forest, whose
murmuring filled her with a
nameless dread, as if it were
the requiem of her past hopes.
At length she turned timidly
to retrace her steps, but even
as she descended the lovely
trail, the cloud bank began to
lift, and the familiar outlines
of the mountains came into
view. Behind the peaks and
along the Divide, appeared a
narrow ribbon of yellow sky,
which widened to a glowing
sea of glass, upon which floated cloud islands
of a soft and pearly grey. It was as if the
sky were filled with the wings of doves.
The chill wind died to a refreshing breeze,
which like the breath of God came again
from the cool gulches and the windy heights,
laden with balsam from the pines, and
bringing with it health and hope, mean-
while the driving mist had spread out in
long, vaporous sheets or broken into filmy
streamers which again widened, divided,
grew every moment thinner until before the
maiden had crossed the meadow and
reached the rustic cottage, her home dur-
ing the short, mountain summer, the last,
lingering cloudlet had dissolved in the
clear and crystal atmosphere, and the little
Alpine valley was again a world of bright-
ness and of beauty .ANNA D. THRALL.

[Picture of WASATCH BY MOONLIGHT appears in the right]


WOMANS EXPONENT


THE National Woman's Press Associa-
tion will soon be here.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

UTAH W.S.A.
	THE Semi Annual Convention of the
Territorial W. S. A. was held April 4th,
1894 in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, the
president Mrs. E. B. Wells in the chair.
Singing by the Suffrage Choir, prayer by
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young.
	Mrs. E. J. McFarlane, Mrs. Lucy A. 
Clark, Mrs. Hilliard, Mrs. M. A. Grover
and Mrs. Louissa Jones delegates from Salt
Lake, Davis, Weber, Juab and Beaver
Counties represented their respective as-
sociations.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards and Mrs. C. E.
Dye gave short addresses in favor of suf-
frage, Dr. Ellen B. Eerguson in an able
address showed the advantages to be
gained by making suffrage universal. 

	Mrs. E. B. Wells made brief remarks
pertaining to suffrage of an explanatory
nature and the meeting adjourned. 
	An executive session was held on the 
morning of the same day in the EXPONENT
Office. Mrs. Phebe V. Beatie in the chair. 
Business pertaining to the various organiza-
tions was discussed and transacted. 
	NELLIE LITTLE, Sec. 

WEBER CO. W. S. A. 
Editor Exponent:
	THE Woman's Suffrage Association of 
Weber County met in Ogden City on 
Tuesday, February 27th, 1894, for the pur-
pose of effecting a reorganization. Mrs.
Emily Richards of Salt Lake City was 
present and acted as chairman until the 
election of officers. The following officers
were elected - Mrs. Janie Nelsen, President; 
Mrs. Hilliard, First Vice President; Miss
Rose Canfield Second Vice President; 

[Column 2]
Mrs. Hendershort, Third Vice President;
Miss Aggie Herrick, Corresponding Sec-
retary; Miss Imogen Wilson Recording
Secretary; Miss Hattie Brown, Treasurer.
Members of Executive Board—Aggie
Herrick Chairman, Minnie Farr, Janie
West, Lizzie Anderson, Maggie Chambers,
Mercy Burton, Annie D. Taylor: Sarah 
West and Aggie Herrick as Auditors.
	After the organization was completed
Mrs. Emily Richards spoke very interest-
ingly on matters pertaining to Woman's 
Suffrage. Meeting adjourned for one 
month.
	AGGIE HERRICK, Cor. Sec.
Ogden Utah, April 10th, 1894.

S. L. CO. 
	MINUTES of W. S. A. held March 19th,
at Mrs. McCune's parlors. President
McFarlane in the chair. Exercises con-
ducted by second Vice President E. M.
Price. Sang "Do what is right." Prayer
by Louisa Badger, sang "Columbia's
Daughters." Roll called, minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
	Speech by President McFarlane, "our
text is Suffrage," suggested that we make
friends of the men, "it will be through 
them that we get our rights. Ter. First
Vice President Emily S. Richards, gave an
eloquent lecture, on Woman Suffrage,
showing that it is only right and just that
we have equal rights with man, she also
read a very excellent article entitled, "Why
our daughters should be educated." Mrs.
McCune then favored the meeting with a
very pleasing recitation. Ter. President
E. B. Wells then addressed us. Thought
the Legislature, had done well in some
respects. They had tried to favor the sik
industry but the Governor refused to sign 
the bounty bill. The Governor had signed
the memorial to Congress asking that we
have the franchise restored, also a memorial
asking that the Woman's Industrial Home
be given the women of Utah for a Wo-
man's Hospital. Thought some were very
willing to help the ladies, many ladies have
not the moral courage to face opposition,
would like to see the meetings held in the
wards, had a message sent to her that there
would be a plank placed in the statehood
platform for woman suffrage. Dr. Ferguson
read a clipping explaining women's voting
in New Zealand, when women have the
suffrage they will not trade their votes.
Song by Miss Fay McCune, excellently
rendered, encored and she sang again.
Meeting adjourned 'till April.
	M. E. IRVINE, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS ANNE WHITNEY, the sculptor, has
completed a bust of Keats in marble,
which is to be placed in the parish church
of Hampstead London, as a memorial from
the American and English lovers of the
poet.
	MISS JULIA KEMP WEST, of Richmond,
Staten Island, N. Y.,  has just entered upon
her duties as school commissioner. She
has made Miss Nellie M. Ford her private
secretary.
	MISS JOSEPHINE RAND, of Boston, has
composed a “Song of Labor” and set the
words to the music of “Marching Through
Georgia.” It will be sung in Boston
for the first time at the reunion of the
Working Girl’s Clubs, in May.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JESSE W. FOX.

	TO THE MEMORY OF OUR BELOVED FATHER,

Peacefully, calmly, we laid him to rest
	In his low, narrow bed in robes of the blest,
Sadly and lonely, we leaned o’er his bier,
	All tenderly, lovingly dropping a tear.
Noble and dutiful all through his life,
	So tender and gentle, a stranger to strife
Brave in affection, yet humble and mild,
	Affectionate, faithful and pure as a child.
Kindly and friendly to all whom he knew
	An honor to God, to his kindred most true,
A man among men, a friend of the poor,
	Hosanna to God! His salvation is sure.
Methinks I see the bright beam in his eye,
	And his beautiful smile as loved ones drew nigh
To help him across to the silv’ry shore,
	To joy in his presence, to leave him no more.
Great is his glory, most brilliant his crown
	He sought not for riches, for fame or renown
Unselfish he lived and lamented he died
	Peace was his motto and the gospel his pride.
No need of an herald his good deeds to tell,
	in the hearts of his friends his mem’ry shall
		dwell,
His name shall be blessed through ages to come
	The heavens shall smile on so goodly a son.
	R. M. F.


NABBIE.

I KNEW thee, fair spirit in life’s early bloom,
	Ere thoughts of life’s sorrows or death’s
		silent tomb
Had entered thine innocent heart.
	When father and mother and kindred so true
Sought fondest devotion to lavish on you
	And purest affection impart.

And I knew thee again as queen of thy home,
	That altar celestial of histories tome
Where hopes find truest fruition;
	Thy being enshrined in the heart of thy hus-
		band,
And calling thee blessed the voices of children
	Making of earth an elysian.

I saw  thee again—O, wondrous transition
	Passing from earth to immortal condition—
In raiment of ermine and roses.
	Thy beautiful form so cold and so silent,
The casket was here but the jewel was absent,
	In Heaven thy spirit rejoices.
								E. R. Shipp.


[Column 1]
SOME PICTURES AT THE ART
	PALACE IN THE WHITE
			CITY.

	NORWAY, land of the ancient Viking, of
Olaf the cliff-scaler, and Olaf the Saint,
may not be important in art, yet she sends
us wholesome pictures, such as might be
expected from a country peopled by men
and women in whom the sentiments of
home-love and religion are strong.
Mountainous and with a coast washed by
the Northern seas, we have a preponderance
of wild, landscape and marine. The her-
ring-fishery; the fos; the village crowded
between the feet of glaciered crags and the
deep fjord; Lofoten, bleak Islands of the
Arctic—place of the Maelstrom—the Nor-
wegian artist paints with simple pride.
“Raftsund,” by Normann, is a specific
example evolved by honesty from crude
art standards.
	Of large canvases England sends not one.
“The Roll Call,” “The Last Muster,”
“Hercules wrestling with Death for the

[Column 2]
Body of Alcestes," are pictures whose size
is at variance with the importance of their
subjects. Surely of the art of yesterday
if we must place it there so soon, “The
Roll Call,” by Lady Butler, is a picture
that will be cherished for many a to-mor-
row. The bravery of a brave nation’s
soldiers is shown without a touch of vanity.
. In the school of elegance, Sir Frederick
Leighton leads. “The Garden of the
Hesperides,”
	“Daughters three,
	That sing about the golden tree,”
seems to end the possibilities in euphony of
line and color. “Requiescat,” by Briton
Riviere, carries us into the region of
Tennysonian heroics. George H. Mason
evokes delicious poetry from the youth of
the nineteenth century. His lovers return-
ing from the fields, in “The Harvest
Moon,” his “Girls dancing on the Sea-
shore," breathe a love as ingenuous, an in-
nocent as sweet, as any of the Golden
Age.
	England has never lacked for watchers of
the sea and sky. Henry Moore is the latest
devotee. With him impressionism and
knowledge go hand in hand. “Morning
Bright, ” is a study in azure. The blue sky
arches over the blue sea, the waves glide
rhythmically and all is joyous. Air, grace,
out-door-feeling—these are the artists’
aims. Linnell, on the contrary, takes us
back to studio traditions. “Storm in
Autumn,” is grand and dramatic, the tones
are rich but conventional, the sky a memory
triumph.
	Sir J. Everett Millais—Geo. Frederick
Watts, these two masters give us four mir-
acles of art: “The Ornithologist,” “Sweet
Emma Moreland” and “Love and Death,”
“Love and Life.” Millais paints as no one
has painted before. He seeks popularity
and we give him applause. He touches
with genius the narrow prettiness of English
home life and makes it classic. The cher-
ub, who with wide-open eyes,looksat the dead
bird in the old enthusiast’s hands—who but
Millais would have painted her so well?
Since the prim little maid we saw in “The
Minuet,” he has done nothing better. True
to his theory of woman’s place in art, as a
thing to be loved, he has painted “Sweet
Emma Moreland”—ripe-lipped, violet-
eyed, dainty-limbed; a sweet adjustment
between the spirit and the flesh.
	In Watt’s grand allegories we see Love,
his wings outstretched, standing amid
roses—powerless to bar the steps of the
veiled shadow. Life—her face radiant with
surprise and joy—led by Love up the steep,
stony path to the mountain’s summit.
	Of pictures from other nations we have,
from Holland, Josef Israel’s masterful
“Alone in the World;” from Germany,
Garbiel Max’ psychological study, “Kather-
ina Emerich” from Italy, Augusto
Corelli’s, “Thanksgiving”an evening on the
Campagna of Rome. France, it seems, has
not thought fit to put forth her strength.
She sends large canvases, to be sure, but
few important works. In the United
States Loan Exhibit are fine examples of
three of her most individualized artists—
“Near Barbijon,” by that disciple of the
forest, Theodore Rosseau "After the Bath,’’
“The Man with the Hoe,” “Gleaners,”
by Jean Francois Millet and “Dance of the
Nymphs,” “Orpheus” “Environs of
Villa’d’ Avray,” by Jean Baptiste Corot.
				ALFRED LAMBOURNE.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	A VERY enjoyable affair took place here,
at Kamas, on the twelfth inst., in honor of
one of the pioneer sisters, Sister Ruth M.
Pack, Counselor to the President of the
Relief Society of the Stake, the occasion
being the lady’s seventy-second birthday.
About 7 p. m. a large number of relatives
and friends assembled at Pack & Rambert’s
hall, bearing with them the many good
things necessary for a grand feast.
	Two long tables were quickly laid and
spread with substantials and dainties in
abundance and as the aged lady was
escorted into the midst of her friends,
Kamas Brass Band burst into a lively air,
and the many friends of “Aunt Ruth”
crowded about her with good words and
congratulations. After the supper, to
which a hundred and seventy-five sat down,
speeches were made, in which a glowing
tribute was paid to the sterling qualities
and faithfuluess of the honored lady; to
which she replied in a few earnest words of
thanks. Several nice presents were also
presented to her, after which dancing was
participated in by young and old ’till a late
hour.
	Altogether the affair was a success and
the Relief Society ladies who had the affair
in charge, did themselves proud. The
company separated,hoping that Sister Pack
would see many, many happy returns.
						C. Y. PACK.


PAROWAN STAKE.

Editor Exponent:—
	A LONG time has elapsed since we have
taken the privilege of writing. Having just
held a Relief Society Stake Conference in
this place we thought a few items might be
interesting. Our Conferences are held suc-
cessively in the five different wards com-
prising the Parowan Stake. The meetings
were addressed by quite a number of our
sisters. Many referring to their past and
what they endured for the sake of their re-
ligion; exhorted parents to be diligent in
their duties to their families and encourage
their sons and daughters to attend to the
different organizations instituted for their
benefit. Reference was also made to the
growing interest taken in music by our
young people and the hope of seeing it
encouraged as much as possible. Our
Primaries ought to be well encouraged: they
being the foundation for other organizations
as the little ones grow older.
	The Conference of our little ones held
here showed the great interest taken in
them, by their different presidents. Great
credit is due these sisters as well as the
children. The presidency of the different
branch societies of this Stake are alive to
their duties, the reports being quite en-
couraging. A great deal of good is done
in assisting and comforting those in need.
One thing we might all improve in is at-
tending to our meetings a little better in
our own wards, showing by our presence as
well as deeds we are anxious to sustain
and encourage our leaders. Our presiding
brethren by their presence as well  as good
words strive to encourage the sisters in
their labors, always appreciating their help
and acknowledging the same.
	Ever hoping for the success of your in-
teresting little paper. 
	JANE PARRY MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,  - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	APRIL 15 AND MAY 1, 1894.


[Column1]
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this City, on Thursday April 5th,
1894—Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding
her Counselors Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
Mrs. B. W. Smith and Mrs. Sarah M.
Kimball, were present also the Treasurer
Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. E. B. Wells
Secretary.
	There were many representative women
in the upper stand from the several stakes
of Zion, and the congregation was quite
large for the morning session. Exercises
commenced with singing “Lord we come
before thee now,” and prayer was offered
by Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith, singing
“Now let us rejoice in the day of Salvation.”
The Secretary read the minutes of the
October Conference (forenoon) which were
accepted. Opening remarks were made by
the President in which she greeted the
sisters affectionately. President M. A.
Hyde of Sanpete Stake was the first speaker.
Her remarks were spirited and to the point,
she referred particularly to the excellent
condition of the Society over which she
presided. Corrected an error made in the
grain report from the Stake, said it should
have read ten thousand bushels of wheat
instead of one thousand.
	President Adeline H. Barker, Cache
Stake, urged the sisters to rally round their
President and uphold, sustain and love her
thus helping her to carry the great
responsibility which rested upon her as the
President of a great organization. Spoke
tenderly of the wonderful work done in the
Logan Temple and the blessings we who
live in this day and age enjoy.
	President of Wanship, Summit Co. made
a few remarks also bearing testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, and stating they
had no poor in their Ward.
	President Jane S. Richards of Weber
Stake spoke in an interesting manner of
the power of healing and told of some
wonderful instances; thought it should be
our duty to comfort the sorrowing and help
lift the burden from the weak and encour-
age the doubting. Referred to the first or-
ganization of the Society by the Prophet
Joseph, spoke feelingly upon love, charity,
union and many subjects that were calcu-
lated to promote the growth and the
prosperity of the Society.
	Mrs. Louissa Jones, Secretary Relief
Society Beaver Stake, made a clear concise
and definite report concerning what had
been accomplished recently in that locality.

[Column 2]
	Mrs. Anderson Counselor Relief Society
of Bannock Stake, made an able report and
said the attendance was large, the Confer-
ences even in Midwinter having specially
large congregations.
	President Susan Grant, Davis Stake made
a brief report and spoke impressively of the
death of President William R. Smith of
their Stake, his able help and wise counsel
to the Society also of the recent death and
funeral services of Jesse W. Fox; thought
the white drapery used by our people on
these occasions took away some of the
gloom that prevailed when all was black;
President Lydia Rich of Morgan Stake,
made some good points in regard to saving
grain, and also upon charity, and said none
there were really destitute, she expressed
great joy and satisfaction in this labor of love
and exhorted all to diligence.
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, spoke
of the great number of branches to be
visited in that County and in brief what
had been accomplished; related a dream
she had which had proven to her that
Brigham Young was the lion of the Lord.
	President Mary Jane Atwood believed in
being prompt in all that we were expected
to do, and desired to have wisdom above
all things to perform her labors among the
sisters, wanted to promote union throughout
the stake, spoke considerably upon the
proper discharge of duties pertaining to or-
ganization work.
	Counselor Sarah Forsythe of Wayne
Stake, referred to the great energy and
perserverance, diligence, kindness and faith
of their President, and the confidence she
had inspired in all those associated with
her, and of the good work that was increas-
ing among them, notwithstanding the many
inconveniences under which they labored,
and being such a great distance from head-
quarters.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke elo-
quently of the sacrifices the Saints had
made in leaving their homes, and the graves
of their forefathers to come to Zion, of the
trials and privations many had endured,
alluded affectionately to the hand-cart com-
panies, and the crisis which now seemed
impending.
	President M Isabella Horne, of Salt
Lake Stake referred to the prophetic sayings
of Joseph Smith and others now being ful-
filled, and of the prosperity which had at-
tended this people in these valleys of the
mountains; the enjoyment we had in the
angelic work of looking after and supplying
the wants of the needy and in comforting
those who were cast down and needed
sympathy, brought up many examples of
faith, and referred to instances which occur-
red in the days of the Savior; thought per-
secution made us strong, but seducing in-
fluences were dangerous. Sang Doxology,
benediction by Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have been reminded of the
typographical errors in the poem, “When
the summer comes again,” on the first page
of the EXPONENT of April first, in the first
verse twelfth line “rocks” should read
“nooks,” and in the second verse “these”
in seventh line should read “there”—and
worst of all the line “And in pristine beauty
blooming, the word “justice” was used
for “pristine.”
	The “Industrials,” as they are misnamed,
have been passing through Utah and mak-

[Column 2]
ing something of a sensation, Gov. West
and others getting somewhat worried over
the affair, however at last the party that
come in from Southern California departed
in peace, and a contingent of about two
hundren men made their appearance later,
who are still waiting for something to be
done. Meanwhile Coxey and his men sue-
ceeded in reaching Washington, what the 
next few months will develop in this in-
dustrial question it is impossible to tell un-
less one had the gift of prophecy.
	THE April Conference was a very pro-
progressive one indeed in many respects.
The inspirational sermons by Apostles and
especially the teaching of President Wood-
ruff in reference to the work for the dead,
proves that this people are not to be kept in
darkness concerning the course to be per-
sued, but that the Lord will reveal Him-
self according to the people’s needs, and
that divine revelation direct from our
Heavenly Father, is and will be given from
time to time through His servants who are
called to preside and lead his people, and
to carry on his work upon the earth.
	THE silk industry must not be permitted
to languish for want of encouragement,
some silk-worm eggs have been distributed
already, and we expect to have more soon,
reelers are being looked up to take hold
when the cocoons are ready, which will be
later in the season; and in view of render-
ing advice and all the assistance possible to
those anxious to take hold of this branch
of home, industry a Central Board has
been formed and articles of association pre-
pared and signed, the name to be Utah Wo-
man’s Silk Association, and meetings are to
be held fortnightly at this office. We
shall be able to give fuller particulars in
our next issue.

	QUESTION.

	IN looking down the columns of a daily
newspaper I noticed nineteen different re-
ligious sects. I ask which one of them
all have the true gospel of our Savior
Jesus Christ? I feel that this is a most im-
portant question to understand—it involves
the salvation of all mankind. Ephesians 4th
chapter, 4th verse it reads, “There is one
body and one spirit, even as ye are called
in one hope of your calling, ” 5th verse, one
Lord, one faith, one baptism.” Read St. Mark
1st chapter 5th verse, “And there went out
unto him all the land of Judea and they of
Jerusalem and were all baptized of him in
the river of Jordan, confessing their sins.”
St. Mark from 18 to 20th, verses “And Jesus
came and spake unto them, saying, “All
power is given unto me in heaven and in
earth. Go ye therefore and teach all
nations, baptizing them in the name of the
Father, and of the Son and of the Holy
Ghost. Teaching them to observe all
things whatsoever I have commanded you;
and, lo! I am with you always, even unto
the end of the world. Amen.”
	What language could be more plain or
positive in portraying the true , plan of sal-
vation? Here we can read the Saviour’s own
words given to his disciples after his resur-
rection and just before his ascension up in-
to heaven. The same gospel is repeated in
St. Marks last chapter from verses 15 to 20
“And he said unto them, go ye into all
the world, and preach the gospel to every
creature. He that believeth and is baptized
shall be saved; but he that believeth not


shall be damned. And these signs shall
follow them that believe” etc. We know by
reading the Savior’s own words as they are
written in the Bible, and not the doctrines of
men, which is true. And he gave some
Apostles and some prophets, and some
evangelists and some pastors and teachers,
for the perfecting of the saints and for the
work of the ministry, for the edifying of
the body of Christ “till we all come in the
unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of
the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto
the measure of the stature of the fulness of
Christ.” Thes. 5th chapter verses 19 and
20. “Quench not the spirit. Despise
not prophesyings.”
	How can those who profess to be
ministers preach the true gospel when they
deny there should be prophets or the gifts
of the spirit? It took prophets and
apostles for the work of the ministry. They
have another plan different from the Bible
plan that the Savior taught, and how are
we to know that their gospel is true. We
read in St Mark’s last chapter verse 2, “And
they went forth and preached everywhere
the Lord working with them and confirm-
ing the word with signs following,” Amen.
	The Savior has not returned
to earth to change His gospel, He
would not change it, it is the everlasting
gospel. Rev. 14th chapter 6th verse, “And
I saw another angel flying through the
midst of heaven, having the everlasting
gospel to preach unto them that dwell on
the earth, and to every nation, and kindred
and tongue and people,” 7th verse, “Saying
with a loud voice, Fear God, and give
glory to him; for the hour of his judg-
ment is come, and worship him that made
heaven and earth, and the sea and the
fountain of water.” How this language
of St. John’s accounts for all these different
diversified gospels being advertised. The
true and everlasting gospel ceased to be on
the earth, and the angel that John saw had
to restore it again in its primitive order,
with apostles, prophets, helps and govern-
ments, with its gifts and blessings, the
same faith which we must contend for, that
was once delivered to the saints, and John
says, 18th chapter 4th, verse “And I heard
another voice from heaven saying, come
out of her, my people, that ye be not par-
takers of her sins, and that ye receive not
of her plagues;” 52nd verse, “For her sins
have reached unto heaven and God hath
remembered her iniquites.” Second
Epistle of John 9th verse, “Whosoever
transgresseth, and abideth not in the doc-
trine of Christ, hath not God. He that
abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath
both the Father and the Son.”
	MARY A. M. PRATT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SILK QUESTION.

	BY advices from the Department at
Washington D. C. I am informed in
answer to my inquiries that the silk sec-
tion of that Department is abolished, owing
to lack of appropriations hence no eggs
will be distributed this season consequently
there is not any prospective market for co-
coons there. The Secretary states that the
experience of the past quarter of a century
particularly that during the six years prior
to 1891, shows that in the United States
Silk Culture cannot be made profitable un-
der existing conditions.
	Therefore it seems what is done must be
by private enterprise which experience


Utah has always had to deal with, although
statistics prove that as far back as 1622 the
cultivation of silk was strongly urged and
land owners were compelled to plant mul-
berry trees or a fine was imposed. Seri-
culture was largely entered into and was
pronounced the most profitable industry of
the Country and the quality and excellence
equal to any produced in Italy. In 1770
2-300 pounds of reeled silk was taken to
Philadelphia to be worked up and the same
year a Mrs. Susanna Wright at Columbia
Lancaster Co. made a piece of goods 60
yards in length from her own Cocoons
which was worn by the Queen of Great
Britain as a Court dress. Ladies took up
the industry as a fashionable employment
and prior to the revolution wore silk dresses
of their own fabrication.
	Up to 1812-13 sewing silk was sold an-
nually to the amount of $600 by one
family alone.
	Therefore it would appear a pity, nay
even a sin that sericulture be allowed to
languish when by the showing of this lit-
tle paragraph such good results were
established and that sufficient interest
should be taken to promote so beneficial
and laudable an industry, which permanent-
ly established would create a vast revenue.
	I hope all who take a pleasure in seri-
culture in Utah will endeavor to their ut-
most to promote the industry if only for
home consumption realizing with what
success the Utah Silk Exhibit met at the
World’s Fair and the merited attention it
receives at the Midwinter Fair.
	I fear my article is already too long for
our progressive little EXPONENT but re-
member the amount of means President
Brigham Young expended to forward seri-
culture and how ardently he advocated and
recommended it and his saying the elements
in Utah are full of silk.
	M. A. TILL, Prest. Utah Co. Silk Asst’n.
Provo City, April 24th, 1894.


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
OF THE UNITED STATES.

CALL FOR MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE.

	EARLY in the history of the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States, it was
found necessary, in order to carry on its
work with proper deliberation, that An-
nual Meetings of its Executive Committee
should be held. Such Annual Meetings of
the Executive Committee have been held as
follows: the first in Indianapolis in May,
1891; the second in Chicago in May, 1892;
and the third in Chicago in May, 1893.
	By the constitutional plan of triennial
meetings, the second triennial sessions of
the Council  would have been held in
Washington in 1894. When, however, in
1891, it was determined that the National
Council of Women should take the
initiative in convening in this country a
meeting of the International Council in
1893, it was voted that the regular sessions
of the National Council should be post-
poned for one year, hence the next meet-
ing of the National Council of Women of
the United States will be held in Washing-
ton in February of 1895. The next meet-
ing, therefore, of the Executive Committee
will be of unusual importance. Before it
will be laid full reports by the President,
Corresponding Secretary and Treasurer, as
well as by the Recording Secretary of the

[Column 2]
work in their respective departments of the
National Council since 1891.
	This will cover the work of the Council
in relation to the World’s Congress of
Representative Women, and to its exhibi-
tion in the Woman’s Building during the
Columbian Exposition of 1893.
	Owing to the work of the Council in
relation to the International Council during
the last two years, its work proper in our
own country, while not neglected, has been
sensibly diminished. Unusual activity will
therefore be necessary, not only on the part
of the General Officers, but on the part of
all the organizations belonging to the
Council, to make the sessions of 1891, fulfil
the plans proposed in the address of its
first President, Frances E. Willard, and in
the statements subsequently  issued by the
present officers of the Council.
	Owing to the initiative taken by the
National Council, local councils are rapidly
springing up throughout the country, each
in its own community applying to local
needs the principles of individual organic
liberty and mutual helpfulness among or-
ganized bodies, now so generally recognized
as the dominant principles in what has
come to be popularly known as the “Coun-
cil Idea.”
	One important question to be settled by
the Executive Committee at its approach-
ing meeting is the relation of local coun-
cils to the National Council, and the
representation to which local councils shall
be entitled at the sessions of the National
Council in its meeting in 1895.
	The general outlines of the program of
that meeting will also be determined by
the Executive Committee, at this time
therefore, the approaching meeting will be
a meeting not only of the Executive Com-
mittee, but also of the committee of Ar-
angements.
	The Executive Committee is constituted
of the General Officers and the Presidents of
all organizations belonging to the Council,
while the Committee of Arrangements in-
cludes the Executive Committee and one
delegate from each of the organizations be-
longing to the Council. Members of the
Committee of Arrangements, who are not
members of the Executive Committee,
will in the coming meeting be entitled to
speak upon all questions that should come
before the Executive Committee for its con-
sideration, but will be entitled to vote only
on such questions as are usually entrusted
to the Committee of Arrangements.
	All Patrons of the National Council are
cordially invited to be present at the
meeting of the Executive Committee and
the Committee of Arrangements, when
they will enjoy the privilege of participat-
ing in discussion of all questions that arise,
of proposing questions and even motions.
Patrons, however, have no vote. Al-
though reasons for this have been fre-
quently stated, it cannot perhaps be too
often reiterated that the central thought
of the Council Idea is the equal representa-
tion in its deliberation and its policy of all
the ideas and objects represented by the or-
ganizations belonging to the Council
therefore it is that the membership of an
organization does not affect the number of
votes that it has in the Council, where each
organization belonging to it has one vote on
all questions that come before the Executive
Committee, and two votes on all questions
that come before the Committee of Ar-
rangements, and where no one else, ex-
cepting the General Officers of the Council,


has any vote. The vote allowed to the
General Officers is, of course, allowed on
the understanding that the General officers
of the Council as such, represent no
organization belonging to the Council, but
stand only for the fair application of the
Council Idea to all work undertaken by it as
a whole.
	It is hoped that every organization be-
longing to the Council will, at the ap-
proaching meeting in May, be represented
by both its President and one delegate, and
that all patrons of the Council will be
present at the meeting.
	At the present juncture nothing is more
necessary to the interests of the organized
work of women in the United States than
that an accurate knowledge of the history,
the objects and the methods of the Council,
and a just conception of the Council Idea
shall be spread and propagated throughout
the country.
	The proposed meeting of the Executive
Committee and Committee of Arrangements
will be held on the 7th and 8th of May in
the city of Philadelphia. The local prepara-
tions are in the hands of Rachel Foster
Avery, Somerton, Philadelphia, Corres-
ponding Secretary of the National Council
of Women, to whom all those preparing to
attend this meeting are requested to write.
	MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,
	President of the National Council of Wo-
men of the U. S., and General Vice-
President of the International Council.
	RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
	Corresponding Secretary of the National
Council of Women of the United States.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XXXVII.

	Young Barrington had stood by Maitland,
coming the moment the message of her
death was brought to him. It was on the
Sabbath day just as he was leaving the
meeting house, after having preached an
impressive sermon, rendered more solemn
because of his intense sympathy for the
family now passing through such a severe 
ordeal of grief and suffering. He had been
thinking of Anna, to whom he was greatly
attached, and who had made him a con-
fident in the most innocent way, for al-
though Anna Hilliard was not brought up
religiously her nature was of that refined
and pure type, that is termed spiritual.
Barrington’s influence was good every-
where, and especially so for Maitland; the
Doctor was very fond of him and both
families were in the habit of attending at
the little primitive meeting house where
every Sabbath day he preached to the few
devoted followers who assembled there, and
many times during the week at prayer
meetings; he was one of the most conscien-
tious and truly devoted followers of the
Reformed Church.
	IT scarcely seemed possible to the Wal-
ton household that the fair, sweet, young
mistress, whom all loved so tenderly and
reverenced with such devotion could be
thus suddenly taken from them; and the
grief of the servants equaled almost, that
of Lord Walton himself who refused all
proffered consolation, and only asked to be 
left alone. Dr. Bland was his adviser and
confident—he insisted upon being admitted
at all hours and would take no denial.
	Mr. Barrington would gladly have re-
mained with him, but he could not be

[Column 2]
persuaded to fraternize with any of his
friends, though many offers were extended.
Dr. Bland managed all the necessary busi-
ness matters that required immediate at-
tention and Mr. Barrington rendered him
all the aid in his power. Mrs. Bland had
the heaviest burden to bear, for she had not
only her deep sorrow for the loss of her
nearest, almost her only relative but the
responsibility of Lady Walton’s entire
domestic establishment. The two children
were as much her care now as her own,
and yet she could not do just as she
liked, for Edward’s nurse was wilful, and
any interference with her management
roused her temper even from Lady Walton
herself. Maitland was useless in this crisis,
and Mrs. Bland felt as if an avalanche had
suddenly fallen upon her.
	The increase of care and anxiety for Dr.
Bland also worried his wife, she knew how
much more he was doing than he was
physically able to undertake, and she
realized how much more manly it would be
in Maitland, to take some of the actual
responsibility of the distressing situation
upon himself, instead of shirking it, and
leaving others to do double duty.
	Speaking to Mr. Barrington she said “I
have no patience with such weak-minded
men as these young Lords and Baronets,
they know nothing of life as it really is,
Maitland is far better able to see after his
own affairs than Dr. Bland, (you know how
ill my husband has been the past winter)
yet he shuts himself up like a child, and
forgets the living who should be his con-
stant care—I long to tell him, but he
would not take it from a woman, nor from
anyone I presume, his father was almost as
weak, and what can we expect of sons
reared to take no active part in a world full
of work as well as pains and realities.”
	“But his mother, Mrs. Bland cannot she
be appealed to for aid in this extremity?”
said Mr. Barrington—‘‘His mother is in
great trouble at present—in fact Maitland
was sent for only a short time ago to come
and help her out of some embarrassment,
though of what use he would have been I
do not know—I am sorry for Lady Walton
—not in herself equal to any great trial.”
	“What then do you think will be the
course pursued by Lord Walton, is there no
one who can come forward and show him
the path of duty in reference to his
children’s welfare;’ said Mr. Barrington
with the most serious air. "I fear not at
present," replied Mrs. Bland we shall have
to make the best of it under the circum-
stances, and my husband will do all, and
more than he ought—but the friends we
know here are most considerate and helpful.
It is the little ones for whom my heart
aches, if Anna could only have said what
she would like I should have insisted upon
her wishes being carried out to the very
letter, but we none of us know.” Here
Mrs. Bland broke down completely, and
her young friend who was like a brother,
retired leaving her to recover composure,
knowing so well that it would be better so,
than to offer words of sympathy which
were all in his power to give. He too felt
keenly the loss of Lady Anna, and his
friendship was sincere for the sorrowing
ones; Dr. Bland had asked him to speak
at the funeral, and he scarcely knew wheth-
er his spiritual courage would be sufficient
for the ordeal;—but he would not flinch.
	All that love and the most hallowed
tenderness could do, was done with
reverential feeling for the mistress of the

[Column 3]
Walton House—and when in the plain,
little meeting-house, where she had at-
tended service usually on the Sabbath-day,
the sermon had been preached that melted
to tears every listener, the remains of the
beloved one were laid away among the tall
pines near by, where only a few simple
slabs marked the resting places of those
who had died in the little colony since its
settlement. Her maid made loud lamenta-
tion, and Mrs. Bland whose heartfelt grief
was greatest of all, kept it within, nor
showed any outward sign to the multitude.
As soon as possible, and really before any
positive method of management of the
family matters had been settled, Maitland
announced to Mrs. Bland his intention of
going to England, and shutting up the
house.
	“And pray what disposal will you make
of the children during your absence.”
said Mrs. Bland in her most plaintive tone
of voice, for it seemed incredible that he
could think of so soon separating himself
from these motherless little ones. She
could scarcely believe him in earnest yet
his manner of speech so indicated. “I had
supposed that your kinship to Anna, and
your interest in the children would be so
strong, that you would not wish to be
separated from them; your house is large
enough to take them both in with their
nurses and your heart I am sure would say,
yes! I shall soon return with my mother,
if she can be persuaded to leave Walton
Hall, and then we shall relieve you of the
daily anxiety, though I am sure you will
always be like a second mother to Anna’s
children, and I shall never give them
another.”
	Mrs. Bland knew not what reply to
make but self-possessed as usual, she was
determined to speak her mind. It seemed
an opportune time, she took in the situa-
tion as a whole; she knew how willing he
was others should bear his responsibilities,
and his mother was of the same type. She
had loved Anna as a sister and desired to
watch over her children, but she felt that the
father ought at least to accept the position
of a parent, she had hoped it would have
aroused his manhood to have such a charge
upon his hands and heart—but she saw
now with sorrow and with pity, that even
Anna’s death had not had the effect she had
hoped and looked for. Mrs. Bland almost
choked with emotion as she said “Maitland
I must speak to you as I think a sister
should, you must be aware that there is a
solemn duty resting upon you in the care
of these helpless children, a duty which
cannot be fulfilled by any one but yourself,
and I entreat you now, as you value your
future happiness, and theirs, not to leave
them here and go away. I will do my
part but you must also do yours, as a
father should.”
	“But my mother needs me cousin Jane,
she is in great trouble as you know, and it
is my duty to stand by her and defend
her.”
	“Cousin Maitland far be it from me to
wish you to neglect your mother, but she is
a woman in years; and has seen much of
the world, she will not be at a loss for
advisers, she has those near her capable of
giving good counsel, and she can wait;—
she will not expect you to leave these lit-
tle children to come to her, they should be
your first thought. I cannot consent to
your going, my better judgment tells me it
would be wrong, Anna would not have for-
saken these children had you been taken


away, she would have been father and
mother both as nearly as possible, let me
plead for her—you surely will reconsider
this idea of going away.”
	“Cousin Jane excuse me if I say I must
go, there will be a ship sailing in a few
days now—I will try and come back soon
bringing my mother with me—I cannot
bear to stay here now that Anna has gone, 
I never liked the country as you know, it
was to please her that I came.” Mrs.
Bland felt it was hopeless to say more but
decided to ask the Doctor to add his en-
treaties to hers, and so they parted for the
night, her mind full of the grave phase of
the difficulty she had to face, while he only
thinking of himself, longed to be off and
away, and forget unpleasantness in new
faces and scenes. Before retiring that
night Jane talked long and seriously with
her husband, who promised to do his best
to awaken the fatherly instincts of Mait-
land and make him see the wrong he would
do by leaving his children to others, and
his affairs with a steward who was very
incompetent to manage for him when his
master was there to oversee. In a few days
Dr. Bland found an opportunity to speak to
Maitland, and he listened attentively for he
held the good Doctor in the highest estima-
tion, but he made no promises, and as time
went by it was very apparent he intended
going; the servants were gossipping among
each other as is quite natural, and the
houeskeeper came to Mrs. Bland with the
news as she imagined it to be, that his
Lordship (her young master) was about to
leave for England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S PATRIOTISM.

	EVERY nation has its heroes, its patriots,
and statesmen, and proclaims their virtues
far and wide, till they seem to walk before
us as examples, as guides and instructors,
sometimes for good, sometimes for evil. 
	Though history generally makes most
familiar to us, men who have dedicated their
lives to their country, the opposite sex,
women have been no less active. Prejudice 
and ignornace have for centuries buried in
oblivion their virtues, and brought to
daylight only their frailties, never striving
to enlarge and elevate their idea and
motives.
	But that time has passed. We live in an
age of progress, when the very atmosphere
cries ‘‘Onward and upward,” and woman
is beginning to take her right position in
the world.
	It is apparent that she is God’s appointed
agent of morality. She teaches, she in-
spires those sentiments and feelings which
are called the virtues of humanity, and
whether these virtues shall progress,
whether the permanent improvement of our
race shall be upward, depends on how man
treats her. Was it not a woman that was
first to proclaim a risen Saviour? Was she
not the one chosen by our Lord himself, to
go forth bearing the glad tidings to the sor-
rowing disciples, that their Redeemer lived?
Do we. not plainly see that Christ recognized
woman as the equal of man, and who, after
this, shall say, ‘‘Stand back, woman?”
What is man without woman? He is selfish,
prejudiced, and easily cast down, while he
calls himself “lord of all creation.” Not
so with woman. She is the prop that keeps
him standing. He, from his pedestal of
honor and renown, smiles benignly upon
his worshipers. He may be consulted in

[Column 2]
the affairs of state, and he exults in his own
greatness. That is one side of his nature,
wait, just wait, till he gets within the four
walls of his home. He finds the woman;
she plans and plots for him the glorious
works of the future, she patiently assists
him with his lectures, his writings, his
everything, while the poor tired statesman
smokes a quiet cigar, or visits the land of
Nod.
	The life of Disraeli, England’s late illus-
trious statesman proves this when weary
and worn out with  the complex questions
of state, he was ready to throw up honor
and renown, and only cheered by a wife
who eagerly aided him by words of com-
fort, clearing away the dark clouds of doubt
and mystery. Is it not time that woman
claimed her own? Why should others
shine by her efforts? Even if her path be
not so high as this, every woman may be a
patriot, and do her country a world of good.
Every woman whose object it is to raise her
children to be good,useful men and women,
who are willing to defend their flag from
insult and injury, has placed a boon in the
hands of her country. How true it is that
‘‘the hand that rocks the cradle, is the hand
that rules the world!” Her trials and suf-
fering may soon be forgotten, but her deeds
will last forever.
	Though not in the power of all to com-
mand upon the battle-field as Joan of Arc,
Boadicea Bona Lombardi or the Maid of
Saragossa did, yet her work is none the less
great.
	Harriet Beecher Stowe illustrates a case
where the pen has proved a potent factor in
the female hand. How that book, “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin,” inspired noble, deep think-
ing men and women to put down the curse,
that bid fair to destroy this boasted land of
Liberty. 
	The story was not the outburst of
a chimerical brain, but the truth as gleaned
from actual facts. The volume was not
planned at once. No, like the far off light
which the traveler sees, but which comes
no nearer to him save by his own exertions,
step by step, every time the foot goes for-
ward coming nearer the journey’s end so
with her, humanity struck the flint, and the
tiny spark inspired her. Onward she
pressed, the goal was reached and a blow
struck in poor, suffering Africa’s behalf.
	This writer was a patriot true and bold,
shunning not the boulders that darkened
her path, fearing not the hate of her South-
ern brethren, ready to give her life for
humanity.
	She had not the fiery eloquence of Clay or
Webster, but she made use of the talent
placed in her hands, and her task was as
faithfully performed as those of Lincoln,
Grant or Farragut.
	The world is beginning to learn that,
after all, the progress and prosperity of a
nation depends as much upon the woman
as the man, and to gain the desired ends,
their rights must be equal, that they may
walk together, one supporting the other,
till Purity, Justice and Truth, shall clasp
hands, never more to be rent assunder.
	FLO.
San Francisco.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

BOX ELDER STAKE.

	Quarterly conference of the Relief Society of
Box Elder Stake, convened in the Tabernacle

[Column 2]
at Brigham City, on the 13th of March, at
ten o’clock, a. m. President Olivia Wider-
borg presiding. Singing, ‘‘Do what is right
let the consequence follow.” Prayer by
connselor Mary Wright. Singing, ‘‘Hail,
to the brightness of Zion’s glad morning.”
Roll called, minutes read and accepted. Re-
ports were made by Sister Harper, president
Calls, Fort; Sister Watkins, president
Fourth Ward, Brigham City; Sister Cordon,
Willard; Sister Michelsen, president of
the Scandinavian Association; Sister
Gregorsen, counselor Third Ward, Brigham
City; Sister Thorne, president Three Mile
Creek; Sister Bigler, counselor in Second
Ward, Brigham City; Sister Jensen of
Mantua. Each made encouraging remarks.
	President Widerborg, explained that
Sister Mary E. Snow has resigned her
position as president in the second ward, and
her counselors had done remarkable well
in her absence. The Lord will bless Sister
Boden, who will be her successor. Sister
Charlotte Boden responded with a wish to
be faithful and perform every duty.
	Sister Bowring: I heard Brother Kim-
ball once say we should be as clay in the
potter’s hand, if we depend on the Lord we
shall be so. We can do a great deal of
good to each other, we should continually
plead with the Lord to give us strength to
live faithful.
	Emelia D. Madsen: It is a sacred calling
to be a president or an officer in the Relief
Society. The teachers in visiting should try
to find the needy. They need to possess the
Spirit of the Lord, the spirit of discernment
and great big hearts that they may find even
those who shrink from receiving help in
their need. This money famine has affected
many, who would rather give than take.
Our deceased president, ‘‘Aunt Harriet,”
used to say, ‘‘we should save souls,” per-
haps some may even become strengthened,
in their faith by the consideration and
sympathy of their sisters.
	Counselor Mary Wright: Most of us
have had experience in the healing of the
sick, we should have confidence in our
brethren and sisters. Let us not find fault
with each other, it is weakening to our-
selves, let us do all the good we can. If it
was not for the Relief Society we would
not be what we are. Singing, ‘‘An Angel
from high,” Benediction by Brother Call.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Singing, ‘‘Hark!
the song of Jubilee.” Prayer by Bishop
Valentine. Singing, ‘‘Sweet is Thy work
my God, my King.” Reports from the
different branches read by Sister Annie
Wixom. President Olivia Widerborg: ‘‘I
am happy I am one with you my sisters,
Latter-day Saints, whose hearts are full of
an earnest desire to serve the Lord. You
have heard the reports, the Lord has blest
us, peace, love, and unity has bound us to-
gether, I feel to thank the Lord. Let us live
so that love and unity may grow among
us, we all have faults, but none of us have
a moment to spare to find fault with others.
I would say to Presidents and Secretaries,
keep your reports straight; by the help of
my sisters we have tried to get our Stake
record in such a shape that when we go
behind the veil we can show on black and
white what we have done with your means.
	Sister Sadie Hansen, Beaver Dam, Sister
Booth, President First Ward, Brigham City,
made some interesting suggestions; referred
to President Woodruff’s birthday reception,
how he called their attention to his faults,
believed there was not a man living with so
few faults as Brother Woodruff.


President Rudger Clawson: I have per-
fect confidence in your president, that she
will use your means to the very best. You
have ample opportunity to advance in good-
ness, with principles of the gospel, help
the sick and the downcast. A great many
of our sisters have faith and the gift of
nursing. Referred to the promise in the
Doctrine and Covenants. It is not the
doctors who save life, but the Lord, He
controls the principles of life. Brother
Clawson spoke in an impressive manner of
the danger in using chloroform too freely,
great care should be taken in deciding when
to use it.
	Counselor C. Kelly: A tree is known by
its fruits, I am proud of it. I have been
pleased to listen to the fatherly counsel by
our president. I am a strong believer in the
laying on of hands and administration of
the servants of God. It is good to keep those
principles before our children, this lays
greatly in the hands of the mothers. There
are many delinquent fathers as well as there
are mothers. God bless you sisters and fill
you with peace.
	Treasurer’s account read by Sister Fanny
Graehl. President Olivia Widerborg: “I
want to say in honor to my God, I went
this morning and asked the Lord to bless 
me that I might hear what would be said,
and praised be the Lord, I have heard every
word that has been said.” Conference ad-
journed for three months. Singing, “Now
let us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
Benediction by Bishop Harper.
EMELIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.
	WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Wayne Stake was held in the Loa School
House, Feb. 25, 1894. President Jane S.
Coleman presiding. Singing, ‘‘God is
Love,” prayer by Elder F. W. Young.
Singing, ‘‘Weary not.” Minutes of last
conference read and approved President
Coleman made opening remarks, prayed that
a goodly portion of the Spirit of God would
be with us during our Conference. The
branches of the Relief Society in Fremont,
Loa, Willmoth, Thurber, Teasdale, were
represented in good condition, all reported
they had commenced to read and study the
Lectures on Faith as requested in their meet-
ings.
	Sister Lucinda Brown spoke on the good
teachings given during our Stake Confer-
ence; spoke of home industries and that we
should sustain them, that the officers and
members of the Relief Society should
work in unison and each perform their part
for the general good; gave some instructions
with regard to burying our dead, there
should be order in all such things, desired
the blessing of God to be with us.
	President J. S. Coleman said she was
pleased to hear the good reports from the
Relief Society as represented. Caneville
and other branches did not have a repre-
sentative present on account of sickness.
Spoke of the great improvement continual-
ly going on in the institutions of our 
Church for the advancement of all. Felt it
was inspiration that rested on our beloved
President Z. D. H. Young to have the
Lectures on Faith read and discussed in our
meetings; thereby faith will increase in our
midst. Mothers will more fully understand
the principles of the gospel, and be able
to teach their children, may faith and good
works be planted and impressed in the
young and tender mind that our posterity
may be mighty. Counselor Sarah S.
Forsythe spoke of guarding our children
from evil habits and keeping them em-
ployed, especially have something to amuse
and instruct them at home evenings.
	Elder J. T. Lozenby spoke of the great
ness of England through home manufacture.
If we stay at home and produce what we
need and to spare, the dollar will come to
us. Elder F. W. Young said he had been
pleased wth the instructions given, related
incidents of the influence women possessed
for good; if they will unite with their hus-
bands in buying home manufactured goods
we could give employment to many of our
own people.
	‘‘O my Father” was rendered in a very
creditable manner by James Stringam.
Singing an anthem. Benediction by J. A.
Taylor.
	Sarah S. Forsythe, Act. Sec.


128 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	BIOGRAPHICAL sketch of Rachel Cook Drol-
linger. She was born in Mason Co. Kentucky, June
14th, 1798. She was married to Samuel Drol-
linger Dec. 21st, 1819. They both joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in July, 1831, Samuel being baptized on the 7th,
and Rachel on the 8th of the month by Elder
Solomon Hancock.
	They moved to Jackson County, Missouri, with
the Saints and with them were driven out; and
from hardship and exposure endured during that
time he died Aug. 16, 1834, in Clay Co., Missouri,
leaving Rachel a widow with six children.
Three weeks from that time her eldest son (then
in his 15th year) died from the same cause.
	Then with her five children four sons and one
daughter, she was with the saints in their suf-
fering and persecution.  Moved with them to
Nauvoo, and was an active member of the Re-
lief Society that was organized by the Prophet
Joseph, and I will here say that the Prophet was
assisted by this worthy family in a material way,
financially, several times. From Nauvoo with
her family she traveled with the Saints, and
came to Utah in the year 1852, locating in Payson
where she resided until her death
	She was the first President of the Relief
Society organized in Payson which organization
was perfected in February, 1856.
	Sister Drollinger was always the friend of the
unfortunate, gentle and kind to those who needed
her sympathy. Yet she had, as it were, an iron-
will, and could not look upon affectation, pride or
deception with the least allowance.
	Plain and outspoken in her manner and so
honest in her convictions in this regard that she
urgently requested to be laid away in a neat,
plain, white coffin; her request was respected and
complied with.
	Rachel Cook Drollinger departed this life on
Jan. 22nd 1894, having lived to the ripe old age of
ninety-five years seven months and eight days.
Having lived a faithfnl Latter-day Saint sixty-two
years, six months and fourteen days, and a widow
fifty-nine years, five months and six days.
	Thus ended the life of one who was never idle,
and who never lost an opportunity to do good.
	She died as she had lived with a firm reliance
of a glorious resurrection.
									COM.


OBITUARY.
	DIED at Wales, Jan. 8th, 1894, Sarah J. Davis,
beloved wife of Benjamin Davis; she was born at
Wales, Sanpete Co., Utah, Dec. 18, 1869. Our
Society has lost a faithful member. Sister Davis
held several prominent positions in this Ward.
She was, at the time of her death, Assistant
Secretary in the Relief Society. When a child
she was always faithful in her Sabbath School,
and a true and earnest Counselor for years in the
Primary Association.
	Sister Sarah attended to her duties on earth
well, and has now gone to receive a just reward,
where we hope to see her on the morn of the
first resurrection. She left a husband and two
small children to mourn her untimely death.
			ANN E. MIDGLEY, President.
			SARAH S. REESE, Sec.


G. F. CULMER& BROS.,
Manufacturers of
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils and Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

	MRS. LIZZIE H. SHIPP, professor and
practical teacher of obstetrics, will open a
school of obstetrics and nursing in Salt
Lake City the first Monday in May. A
half yearly course will be taught for the
unprecedented low terms of ten dollars.
All persons desiring to avail themselves of
this opportunity will please consult me by
letter or in person at No. 34 S. 7th, East
Street, Salt Lake City.

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual 
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS 
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimme
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. B
tons covered while ycu wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1894.	No. 17.


CONTENTS:
	Woman’s Sphere—S. W. Richards. Ladies’
Semi-monthly Meetings—Lydia D. Alder.
Nature—E. H. Lyon. Our Agency, When
Does, It Begin?—Zion’s Convert. Miscellaneous.
Relief Society Conference—E. B. Wells. U. W.
P.C.—Gladys Woodmansee. R. S. Reports—
Ellen L. Goldsbrough. W. S. A.—M. E. Irvine.
Notes and News. Utah Silk Association
Obituary.

	EDITORIAL:—Visit of Pen Women. Utah
Federation of Clubs. A Few Thoughts.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Springtime—Hyacinth. Birthday
Greetings—Lydia D. Alder. The Old Temple
Wall—C. C. R. W.


SPRINGTIME.

BRIGHT Spring, if I should ask you,
To hasten in your flight,
To bring no fair sweet blossoms
To gladden mortal sight,
No cool and sparkling dewdrips,
That kiss the brow of night;
To steal the gentle breezes,
That fans the morning light.
To stay the rushing waters,
In their ever onward flight.
The hilltops ne'er adorning,
With aught but pearly white;
To hear no feathered songsters,
Arrayed in plumage bright,
Trill forth the sweetest music,
From out their leafy height.
Witholding welcome showers,
From lovely Nature's sight,
Nor clothe her vales with verdure,
Whose beauties all invite.

Fair Spring, if this I ask you,
Would I an answer find?

Ah, Springtime, gentle Springtime,
Have not a doubt for me;
I would not have you other,
E'en though a change could be.
I love your fragrant flowers,
And graceful waving trees,
Your verdant vales and valleys,
And smoothly covered leas;
The rugged clifts and ledges,
That round me I can see,
Grim sentinels of safety,
They ever seem to be.
The winding rills and rivers,
That flow to meet the sea,
With rippling sounds of laughter,
And roaring shouts of glee.
All these are dearest pleasures,
Whose freshness ne'er can flee,
From the depths of true affection,
Safe locked with memory's key.

No, no, happy Springtime, linger,
Forevermore with me.
HYACINTH.
May 1, 1893.


THE soul that does good to others grows
in goodness. He that is a medium of
blessing to others is himself blessed thereby.
Hence, selfishness is a folly, as well as sin;
for while it prevents our doing good to
others, in the same degree it prevents our
doing good to ourselves.—Jean Paul.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S SPHERE.

	AMONG the unsolved problems of the
day, remains that of the limits of woman’s
sphere.
	Ages past have endeavored to determine
the bounds that should be prescribed for
her, as being suited to her capacity, of
both mental and physical development.
It has been a cherished idea with man that
there were limits beyond which she must
not venture, beyond which her aspirations
must not attempt to soar. But she has so
persistently not only advocated, but de-
manded of her lord, the man, possession of
rights so consistent with her relations to
him, that his own moral sensibility has in-
duced him to make concession from time to
time, until now some dare to say there is
no limit to her sphere within the circle of
man’s ultimate destiny;—that her intel-
ligence, her moral obligations, her suscepti-
bilites and sensibilities;—her place and
power, and her appreciation, all render her
competent to be a complete companion of
man, through all the conditions and
vicissitudes of time; a sharer of all his
honor and glory beyond the limits of this
probationary experience.
	It seems to be justly claimed that her
importance has not been appreciated by man
as was designed in the beginning it should
be, when it was immutably decreed that a
man should leave both his father and
mother, and cleave to woman as an indis-
pensable companion to his future welfare,
that when woman is to take precedence of
both father and mother in the eternal
economy, she may not be lightly esteemed,
must not be looked upon with indifference,
not be set aside in any condition as some-
thing that can be dispensed with. Jesus
himself, recognized this law of the Creator,
and gave it complete endorsment as bind-
ing upon man, when he quoted it in de-
fence of his views, that from the beginning
there was no such thing as a separation
contemplated, after the relation of man and
wife had been consummated.
	Certainly it is by and through her that all
men are, ever were and ever shall be; and
must she not share in the accountability
which man shall render of his life? Where
then is the time or place in which she is
not entitled to share with him in all the
responsibilities and honors that man is
capable of bearing, or legitimately acquir-
ing?
	To govern is made her duty from the day
of man’s birth. She is both fitted and
competent for the honorable performance of
that duty. To learn his needs, and provide
for and administer to them she is equally
proficient; and in respect for, and in the
performance of duty she is ever the peer of
man. For integrity and honor she may
be fearlessly trusted, as the prevailing rule
of her life.
	It has not been so much by the encourage-
ment that man has given, as by her own
persistent efforts, that woman has risen
in the higher civilization of Christian nations.
It is certainly a great advance of the time
when she was subjected to a seclusion

[Column 2]
amounting almost to imprisonment, or to a
servitude equal to slavery; when she was
not considered as the ornament  and refiner
of society, the companion and friend of
man; but among the higher castes of society
was often required to sacrifice herself upon 
his tomb.
	The influence of Christianity has changed
to a great extent these conditions of her 
life; have released her from the actions
and degrading restrictions in which she had
almost become the soulless thing which 
she had been represented to be, and restored
to her many of her natural rights which
tend to establish a just and true equality of
the sexes; and a woman now is often
acknowledged the absolute sovereign of
a great kingdom as in hereditary monarchies
like those of modern times. In our day
she has not only acquired excellence but
prominence in many of the professions, as
well as in science and art, which places her
in the front, and makes good her claim to
the right of equality with many of the
sterner sex.
	It has now become a universal sentiment,
that nothing marks more decidedly the
character of man, and of nations, than the
manner in which they treat woman. In
fact, woman’s influence in society for good, 
cannot be overestimated. She is no longer
considered to be a mere plaything for
treacherous man. She is of that im-
portance that no man can be properly
educated, or fitted for life, who has not
experienced the influence and spiritual
divinity as embodied in woman and mother.
	An inspired writer has said of woman
that her price is far above rubies, and that
by getting one for a wife, man finds favor
with God. Who can estimate the value of
God’s favor? Or who can declare the worth
of a virtuous woman? She is in fact the
link that connects the temporal with the
spiritual, earth to the heavens, and man to
God. Well did the poet write:
		‘‘Heaven when it had created man,
		Unfinished found creation’s plan
		Nor would the links together meet 
		’Till woman made the chain complete.”
	The Father chose her by and through
whom all his spiritual children should come
to earth, and so ordered that she should be
the first to know the advent of the spirit to
its home, “a house not made with hands,”
and not until she has endowed it with the
virtues of her soul does she present it a
priceless offering to her Lord. Thus wo-
man is recognized by the eternal decree of
the Father to be the first to cherish
humanity; as also, she was the first to be-
hold immortality in a risen Son and Savior.
	The fact that no man is without the wo-
man in the Creator’s economy, makes it
difficult to find a place between  the advent
of humanity, and the immortality of the
risen dead, where woman’s sphere may not
be found, in which she may not tread with
that triumphant womanly pride that shall
fit her not only for the associations of men,
but of angels and of God.
	In view of the fact that there can be no
man, priest, king or God, without woman,


we may cease to talk about woman's
sphere as though it had a limit, other than
the world in which she moves.
	The author of the following lines, may
have exceeded even our own appreciation
of women:
	“There’s not a place in earth or heaven,
	There’s not a task to mankind given,
	There’s not a blessing or a word,
	There’s not a whisper, yes or no,
	There’s not a life, a death, a birth,
	That has a feather’s weight of worth,
	Without a woman it it.”
		S. W. RICHARDS.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the semi-monthly meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
March 10th, 1894, Counselor Elizabeth
Webb presiding. Meeting opened by
singing, “Arise, O Glorious Zion.” Prayer
by Sister Frances Smith. Continued by
singing, “O, Say What is Truth.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved.
	Counselor Webb: Let us think of the
blessings we enjoy here in Zion. Here we
have our glorious Temple which has been
dedicated to the living God. Spoke of
“Christian Science,” the many they were
drawing to them. We know that their
foundation is a sandy one, also that we are
built upon the rock, let our lives and good
works bear testimony of this truth. Satan
will pass off twenty truths perhaps to one
lie, yet that one will destroy all the truth
he has told. Think of the words of the
Savior, he said, love one another. Let us
build up the kingdom of God.
	Sister Mary Silver spoke of the General
Relief Society who had given employment
to poor women, making comforters and
rugs, thought they had done much good;
some of the comforters were for sale, stated
their quality and price, and called on the
sisters to purchase some if they could. Ad-
ded that she was thankful that she was a
Latter-day Saint. Thought we should be
careful of our words and our influence, for
we will be held responsible for the same.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said, sickness was
often sanctified to us, knew how it had been
when we have been healed by the laying on
of hands God expects us to arise and
testify to it. He likes us to tell of his
goodness. God bless you all my sisters.
Made other good remarks.
	Sister Morris told the sisters to bear their
trials and not let their children know of
them, keep them as much as possible to
themselves. Sister Paul bore an excellent
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, spoke
of those in our midst who had been healed by
other means than the laying on of hands.
She had seen some healed, and some die,
although the same means were used.
Sisters be not deceived, let us cling to the
truth. I know we are built on the rock, and
I have seen the signs follow as promised.
Sisters Forsythe and Reid each bore
testimonies to the truth of the Gospel and
earnestly desired to be faithfnl. Spoke of
the Relief Society doing good to the poor.
Sister Aird bore testimony, and said “The
Kingdom of God or nothing for me.”
	Sister S. E. Brown and M. Brown each
spoke well, and encouraged the sisters. A
sister in the congregation bore an excellent
testimony. Sister Irvine thought all should
worship God as they desired, but warned
the sisters to look well to themselves, and
serve the true and living God. Thought

[Column 2]
the most of those who turned away from
the Church had never possessed much
faith, the seed had fallen in stony places,
and when other influences were brought to
bear, it withered up because it had not
much root.
	Sister L. D. Alder spoke of the power of
the adversary, how often he deceived those
who were not on the watch tower. Let us
study our own religion, and live near to
God. Let us shun the paths where many
have backslidden and pray for God’s help
to be true and faithful. Counselor Webb
made a few closing remarks. Sister Alder
read a note from President M. I. Horne
stating she was not able to meet with us
today and announcing the Quarterly Con-
ference.

	MINUTES of the semi-monthly meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
April 21st, 1894.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Jesus the
Giver.” Prayer by Sister Julia Pack.
Continued by singing, “Now let us re-
joice in the day of salvation.”
	President M. I. Horne presiding
Minutes of the First Ward Primary were
read by the secretary.
	President Horne said there were some
sisters present who have been healed by
the laying on of hands in faith, and she
wished to hear from them, encouraged the
sisters to bear testimony, for the Savior had
promised to testify before his Father of
those who bore testimony of him.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of her labors
in the Temple, and bore testimony of many
wonderful healings through prayer and
faith of the brethren and sisters in the
Temple. “This is a world of trial and
trouble to prepare us for a better existence.
The Prophet Joseph said it would take a
thousand years to perform the work for the
dead, so let us press on, doing good and no
hurt. I pray that we may be prepared to
meet those who have gone on.”
	Sister Mary Ann Hyde, President of the
Sanpete Stake of the Relief Society said,
“I make it a point never to refuse anything
I am called upon to do. I have a diffidence
in speaking. We do not live as near the
Lord as we should, so that we may enjoy
the gifts. I have been in the church about
fifty years; and I was taught the principle
of plural marriage by the Prophet Joseph
himself, so I know it is true, and I have
lived in that order nearly as many years as
I have been in the Church. I honor it, and
feel that great blessings are in store for
those honorable ones who have lived in it,”
spoke also of her hip being injured years
ago. After coming to the hospital, the
many doctors pronounced her case hopeless,
that she could never walk again. Said she
went on crutches for a long time, but
through prayer and laying on of hands,
and the power of the priesthood, she could
walk as well now as ever she could.
	Counselor E. Stevenson stated that she
had been at Grantsville, so that she had not
attended the last meeting, “the brethren and
sisters there were so anxious to attend the
meetings, coming sometimes twelve miles
in a wagon, yet, look at the empty benches
here today. It is true the nearer the church
the farther from God?”
	Sister Delamare spoke on the fulfillment
of prophecy, as seen in gathering hosts at
Washington, and bore excellent testimony.
Sisters Baubrick, Morris and Frances Smith
each bore instructive testimonies, and
Louie Stevenson and Sister Bregher.

[Column 3]
	President M. I. Horne said “I have 
enjoyed the testimonies of the sisters. If
we have had lessons to learn, let us culti-
vate our gifts and learn them. God desires
us to do this and then we will know for
ourselves. We should have revelation for
our own guidance. The Lord will heal if
we seek for faith. It is a day to seek unto
God. Look at the promised signs, showing
great events at no distant day. But the
Lord will be sought after and then
He will bless us, and save us from the great
calamities that have commenced in the
world. You come here for spiritual food
sisters, and I pray that we may all be faith-
ful and true. Sister Lizzie Shipp announced
a lecture to ladies for the following week,
and a class to commence the first Monday
in May on obstetrics.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang,
“Satan’s empire long has flourished.”
Benediction.
				LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


NATURE.

	WHAT is nature? It was the decree of 
God that went forth when worlds were
made. It is shown in all His works.
How grand, how beautiful! The heavens,
the earth and the sea declare His name.
The sun, that glorious orb of day, the
source of light, heat and life. The moon,
the queen of night, and the countless
numbers of stars that light up the firma-
ment. The air we breathe. The seasons
as they roll around, bringing seed time and
harvest. Old ocean that years change not,
lakes, rivers and forests. The mountains
whose lofty peaks tower toward the sky.
Nature, what a field for thought and
adoration! Her book is open to all. The
animal, mineral and vegetable kingdoms,
with man at the head. Man, the Creator’s
greatest work. Placed here on earth for a
purpose. Will the time ever come when
mankind will realize as they ought, why
they are here, and what they are here for?
How much sorrow and suffering might be
avoided if they but thought of these things
in early youth. The laws of God would
be regarded in all things, spiritual and
temporal, and they themselves receive the
blessings. The mineral kingdom—what a
source of wealth to man? Its supplies are
inexhaustible. The vegetable kingdom,
without which man could not subsist.
What beauty! What perfection and order.
There are seldom any freaks in nature and
in her wise economy nothing is lost, al-
though on one hand constant wear. Yet on
the other continual building up. Should not
men’s hearts flow with gratitude to the
giver of all good whose wisdom passeth all
understanding. Could such a world have
been made by chance? No, man alone has
said, “There is no God.” The wonders of
nature are to be seen all around, above,
beneath. The unbeliever is to be pitied.
His mind, that God-like gift of intellect,
must be dark indeed, cheerless and hope-
less. Religion, the love of God is man’s
only solace.
	“Creator yes! Thy wisdom and thy word
	Created me! Thou source of life and good!
	Thou spirit of my spirit, and my Lord:
	Thy light! Thy love, in their bright plentitude
	Filled me with an immortal soul, to spring
	Over the abyss of death; and bade it wear
	The garments of eternal day, and wing 
	Its heavenly flight beyond this little sphere,
	Even to its source, to thee, its Author there."
								E. H. LYON


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.   131


BIRTHDAY GREETINGS.

(TO MY ESTEEMED FRIEND, ANNA B. J.)
YOUR birthday, dear friend! I wish you joy,
And though your life’s cup is mixed with alloy,
Think of the gladness your dear presence lends
To parents, to husband,dear ones and friends.

Dost remember the palace where primeval you 
	strayed,
The gardens of grandeur where soft breezes
	played? 
Or Father or Mother in whose courts you were
	reared, 
With love past revealing—and nothing was 
	feared? 
Where visions of beauty were old to the sight—
Where the glory of God so wondrous—so bright,
Encircled His children as in arms of love,
And rapture supreme reigned below and above.

Did the green sward of earth entice thee to
	come,
To leave joys supreme in that distant home?
Or was it the mother love drawing you here
Away from the life in yon glorious sphere?

Dear friend a mission was given to thee,
’Twas said, “Make a home and you shall be free”
But choose to do well, we will help you in love,
Will whisper of Heaven wherever you rove.”

Then when the steep pathway your tired feet
	tread,
And pitiless storms beat fierce o’er your head,
O, think of the love that is waiting for you,
When Heaven is gained and you have been true.

Then cheered be thy heart! And joyfully
	borrow,
The sunshine of hope, for lo, on the morrow
The clouds will all pass, and Heber will come,
With songs and rejoicing to you and his home.
						 LYDIA D. ALDER. 
January 26, 1894.


[Column 1]
THE OLD TEMPLE WALL.
[Salt Lake Temple, Nov. 7th, 1894.]
THOU old Temple wall 
	Which circles around,
What is dear to all Saints,
	That blest spot of ground;
On which stands our Temple
	So lofty and grand—
How thought crowds upon thought
	As gazing I stand.

As my thoughts backwards turn
	And seek memory’s page,
I see there inscribed
	How the wicked once raged
When they sought the possession
	Of our sacred halls,
Which thou hast guarded for years,
	Dear old Temple Wall!

How thrilling the knowledge!
	The remembrance, how sweet!
When calling on “Father,”
	We knelt at his feet,
And cried, Father, forgive them!
	Forgive them, we pray!
But spare our loved Temple
	From those who would slay
Thine anointed and chosen,
	Thy Prophets and Seers,
The prayers of thy people
	Oh God! Wilt thou hear!

How blessed! To know
	That our knowledge extends
To a God who doth hear,
	And raise up to us friends
And lo! Like the clouds 
From a clear summer sky,
	Roll back all our troubles,

[Column 2]
And we know He is nigh.
	Then, “Dear Wall” many times
Have I walked in thy shade,
	When the joy in my heart 
It’s own music hath made.
	Went in at thy gates,
And sat down in thy halls,
	And listened enraptured
To truth, as it falls
	From the lips of God’s servants,
How soothing and calm
	Is the peace that it brings
To the heart, what a balm!
	When troubles hang o’er us, 
Like a funeral pall,
	Oh!  How can we part with thee,
Dear old Temple Wall?

Above thy foundation
	The moss doth appear,
In patches, in crevice,
	Now there and now here.
Already the house in the corner is razed.
	Naught, soon will be left
On which we have gazed,
	In years that have gone,
With loved ones who sleep,
	Ah!  Tread gently, I dare not touch
That sacred spot lest I weep!

Soon thy mission is ended,
	And the time draweth nigh
When an enclosure more elegant,
	More chaste, (to the eye,)
Will surround our loved Temple.
	(Perhaps more pleasing to all)
But not dearer, to us, than
	Our, Old Temple Wall!
The rich and the poor, alike
	Enter thy gates,
Of the blessings within
	They alike may partake.
At the altars may kneel,
	When on “Father” we call,
Through thee, the Temple we enter,
	Dear old Temple Wall!

Must we part with thee?  Thou steadfast,
	Thou old and tried friend! 
Could’st thou not have stood
	And endured to the end?
Ah yes! But improvement
	Demands thy downfall;
But thou’lt live in our memories,
	Dear old Temple Wall!

						C. C. R.W.


OUR AGENCY, WHEN DOES, IT BEGIN.

	IT is true that an all wise Heavenly
Father has given us our agency? If so
when did we receive it? We came here
with faculties all dormant, not knowing
where we are or what to do, only to cry for
food that we may gain strength and intel-
ligence adequate to this occasion. We are
helpless, yes, helpless in every sense of the
word. Yet we find this food gives strength,
and we, after a time, discover that we have
faculties we can call into action; can grasp
and hold with the hands, and shortly use
our feet to walk.
	How delighted the child is when he can
accomplish this, and with what pleasure he
wlll do anything his parents or guardian 
will tell him to do.
	Yes he appreciates the faculties given
him, and the love of the parents for him
creates a love in the child, also and it is his
delight to do everything in his power to
please those who love him so tenderly.
Is not this typical of ourselves and what


we are or should be in the sight of God
our Father. 
	Yet the opposite spirit, Lucifer, tells us
you need not pray, Our Father knows what
you need before you ask Him. This is an
easy lesson, but is it a profitable one?
	Our Elder Brother’s lesson is quite the
opposite to this. He says, “seek and ye
shall find, knock and it shall be opened un-
to you.” In this way our faculties are
developed and drawn into action. Our
Father sees that since we are made in His
image, we must develop those faculties to
become God-like and partake of His nature.
While Lucifer would teach us that he has a
shorter and a better way to gain the same
result. Here we need wisdom to know
which lesson to learn first.
	Since we are told to become God-like we
must learn both spirits; that we may give
each one its true value and its proper place. 
	Now you must cling to the parent or
guardian who loves you, and has already
gained the experience you seek, and
remember that our Heavenly Father’s
voice is the first to listen to, to be safe from
evil, for after you have decided which to
follow you will find you have a prompter
in either case, either on the upward or
downward grade, after those faculties are
developed; but before this time his Satanic
majesty has no power, over little children.
This is the decree of God our Father.
	How wise, how merciful and good He is
to his erring children, knowing as he does
that the path through this world is a rough
one, yet it will teach us to seek wisdom
from the fountain of light and intelligence,
to arrive safely into port, to our eternal
home.
	When we read the history of our
Lord and Savior we see how many trials
He met with, yet He gained strength every
time, because of the help he received from
his Father who delights to bless all those
who put their trust in Him. In this way
they make a wise use of their agency, and
will find that every trial will be a benefit
to those whe can acknowledge the hand of
God in all things.
				ZION'S CONVERT.
Dec. 1st, 1892.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	YEARS mellow some men and petrify
others.
	THE earth is our workshop. We may
not curse it; we are bound to sanctify it.
—G. Mazzini.
	HONESTY is the best policy, because it
is the only policy which insures against
loss of character.
	NEVER bear more than one trouble at a
time. Some people bear three kinds—all
they have ever had, all they have now,
and all they expect to have.—Edward
Everett Hale.
	THE effective life and the respective life
are one.  No sweep of arm that does some
work for God, but harvests also some more
of the truth of God, and sweeps it into the
treasury of life.—Phillips Brooks.
	REMEMBER that if the opportunities for
great deeds should never come, the op-
portunity for good deeds is renewed for you
day by day. The thing for us to long for
is the goodness, not the glory.—Frederic
W. Farrahr.


132	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ng, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,				MAY 15, 1894


[Column 1]
VISIT OF PEN WOMEN.

	WE were delighted to meet and welcome
to our City on Sunday morning, May 13th,
some of the members of the National Wo-
man’s Press Association and their guests,
whose long expected visit here we had
looked forward to with such pleasant antici-
pation; and though their stay was only
very brief, yet it was a satisfaction to see
and converse even for a few hours with these
bright, brave women, who had accomplished
so much in the world of letters, becoming
so widely known from their work as some
of these women writers have, during the
last few years.
	A few of the officers and members of
the Utah Woman’s Press Club met them at
the depot and drove with them to the
Hotel Templeton, in the big Utah and Mrs.
McCune’s handsome carriage, and after-
wards drove over some parts of the City.
After lunch they went through the Bee
Hive, once the residence of President
Brigham Young, thence to the Tabernacle
and from there to Saltair Beach. Mr.
Nephi W. Clayton, the generous and amiable
manager, running a special train out as a
compliment to the press women.
	The visitors were homeward bound, hav-
ing visited Southern California, the Mid-
winter Fair and places of interest, includ-
ing the Yosemite, the Geysers and big trees,
and also attended the Woman’s Congress in
San Francisco, some of the ladies having
read papers and also spoken at the Congress.
Most of the party were from Washington,
D.C., others from Boston, Baltimore and
Chicago, and one very bright little woman
from South Carolina. They traveled in a
special car all the way, the Demarara, hav-
ing started on their trip westward April 14;
from here they went on to Denver and
Manitou, expecting to reach Washington
on the 17th inst.
	Mrs. Mary E. Lockwood, chief of the
party, is the President of the U. W. P. A.
and was one of the Vice Presidents of the
Board of Lady Managers of the Columbian
Exposition, has published some books and
is editor of the “American Monthly
Magazine,” she has a home at the National
Capital; Mrs. H. W. Balston, correspondent
of the Woman’s Tribune, and a poet of some
celebrity, known best by her poem of 
Columbus, written expressly for the World’s
Fair; Mrs. A. Maynard Richardson of
Boston, best known in art work from her
Limages pottery and in the literary world
for her art criticisms, and she did valuable
work at the World’s Fair as one of the jury

[Column 2]
on art. She treats on other subjects also
and is a very clever writer, and brilliant
women; she has a studio in Boston and is
well up in art technique; she hopes to
come west next year to make some
sketches.
	Mrs. Emily Charles Thornton (Emily
Hawthorne) has written poetry for papers
and magazines all her life, has published
some of them in book form, elaborately il-
lustrated; she is a correspondent of Advanced
Thought. Mrs. Julia A. Anderson is cor-
respondent of the Philadelphia Daily News,
has been during the World’s Fair a secret
service writer, but she is now devoting
much of her time and best efforts in writ-
ing a book which will soon be published.
	Mrs. Joanna Turner, an ex-army nurse,
had seen some actual service, and is a cor-
respondent for the Wisconsin State Register.
Mrs. Elvira Bliss Sheldon, correspondent
of Washington Daily Times, and Canton
Clipper, Ill. Mrs. J. L. McCreary, cor-
respondent of Humbolt (Iowa) “Kosmas.”
Judge Clark of Washington, D. C., was
among the gentlemen of the party, also Mr.
Geo W. Grey, whose daughter was also
one of the party; and Mr. Henry Sampson
and wife;—one or two other gentlemen of
the party had hurried homeward without
stopping over.
	Mrs. B. W. Moses, of Washington, in-
terested us very much on account of hav-
ing heard of her through Bishop Whitney,
who was at one time a guest at her house in
Washington in company with her nephew,
Jim McKnight, well known here in his boy-
hood. nephew of Feramorz Little and
grand-nephew of President Brigham
Young. Mrs. Moses is a brilliant talker
has seen much of the world, has traveled
extensively in foreign lands and has some-
thing interesting to tell. She intends com-
ing to Salt Lake again in the near future.
There were other women of note not
regularly engaged in press work, but doing
some special  correspondence for Eastern
papers while away.
We hope and trust the party will have
some pleasant memories of Utah and their
visit here, and certainly those of us who
met and conversed with them, will always
be more interested in their welfare and suc-
cess because of the bond of union and love
formed by the one day’s pleasant associa-
tion and interchange of kindly thought.


UTAH FEDERATION OF CLUBS.

	THE Utah Federation of Woman’s Clubs
held its first Annual Convention in this
city, Thursday May 10th, delegates from
the Ladies’ Literary, Utah Woman’s Press
club, Reapers’ Club, Cleofan and
Woman’s Club, of this city, the Nine-
teenth Century Club of Provo, the Spring-
ville Woman’s Ciub, the La Coterie, the
Magazine and the French Circle Club of
Ogden being present.
	The morning meeting was an executive
session of the general officers and of the
several clubs; the chief business consisted
in the election of officers for the ensuing
year. A nominating committee was ap-
pointed by the President and the vote was
by ballot, which resulted in the election of
Mrs. C. E. Allen, President; Mrs. Patten (of
Ogden,) Vice President; Mrs. Emma
McVicker, Secretary, Miss Georgia Webber,
Treasurer.
	At the afternoon session there was a
large attendance of members from the


several clubs, in the Federation, and the
variety of colors in ribbon denoting the
respective clubs with the artistic floral
decorations, added to the bright intellectual
faces of the women present, made a charm-
ing and delightful picture. Most of the
ladies spoke without notes or memoranda.
Mrs. Jennie Leonard of Springville gave
quite a practical address on the subject, “Is
the limitation of club numbers desirable?”
The next subject was “Home Talent and
Outside Talent.” Mrs. Nellie Little gave a
very able address upon “Parliamentary Law”
and Miss Josephine Kellogg the President
of the Nineteenth Century of Provo made an
exceedingly interesting speech and regular
law argument on “Helps and Hindrances
of Club Life.”
	The representatives of the Ogden Clubs
invited the Federation to meet there next
year and the offer was accepted.
	In the evening there was a session at the
First Congregational Church, the ladies of
the Cleofan had beautifully ornamented the
platform where the officers and speakers
were seated. Mrs. Carlow of Ogden, the
retiring president, made a most efficient
officer; and her charming appearance, and
gracious presence are fitting and appropriate
to the position. An organ solo by Mrs.
Hamilton opened the evening session and
the first speech was made by Mrs. Farlow
on the “History of Woman’s Clubs” and
her manner, voice, style and the impression
upon her audience was telling in the ex-
treme, and she handled her subject in a
masterly manner. Miss Geneva Jennings
sang two airs, has a clear soprano voice,
has been studying recently in Chicago.
The Treble Clef Society composed of
ladies sang the “Water Lily” and
Lullaby” song sweetly, Professor Krouse
accompanist. Mrs Patton gave artificial
society some severe cuts, her subject was
“The Social Phase of Club Life.”
	Mrs. C. E. Allen’s address came last and
she was heartily applauded, her subject
was “Educational Influence of Woman’s
Clubs” she dwelt impressively upon self-
culture, and also the good fellowship pro-
duced by the opportunities for mutual
help afforded by Woman’s Clubs.


A FEW THOUGHTS.

HOW FAR SHOULD HOME TALENT BE CUL-
    TIVATED AND TO WHAT EXTENT SHOULD
	OUTSIDE TALENT BE INTRODUCED
IN WOMAN’S CLUBS.

	[Federation Notes not used.]
	THIS subject was assigned to the writer
to speak upon at the Convention of the
Utah Federation of Clubs held May 10th.
	Some of our ideas may suggest thoughts
and methods to others, as it is an entirely
new subject and one upon which we have
never heard an opinion expressed; it cer-
tainly does and must necessarily depend
largely upon the personnel of the club
itself. To begin with I should say local
clubs are principally and first of all for the
development of home talent— its higher
cultivation or to bring out the most and
best of one’s possibilities for mutual help-
fulness and interchange of ideas of all in-
terested in the work mentally and in a
literary way; also sympathetically, for un-
less one’s sympathies are enlisted and one’s
whole intellectual nature fully awakened to
improvement and advanced thought, there
never can be any great achievement pos-
sible along the superior lines of what is


[Column 1]
all, and out of forty members or perhaps
termed the heights and depths of 
knowledge.
	How often have we heard women re-
gretting that their school days were over,
feeling that something tangible had gone
out of their lives, that they are losing, that
they are not advancing, in fact even those
who are happily married always speak with
a marked affectionate earnestness of the
school or class association, this lack is great-
ly obviated in club life—these clube are
sometimes spoken of as “married wo-
en’s colleges”—they aim to fill a place left
vacant, as woman grows away from the
friends of her girlhood, often called, to a
new home and surroundings, away from
all that was familiar, perchance to great
responsibilities for which she may be
totally unfitted either by birth education or
training; what outlet has she for the active
forces within, that would respond to some
call for expression, some ventilation of views
or opinions that might be a positive relief
to an overburdened heart, an antidote for
loneliness, and even uplift those around
her as well as her individual self. Often
the tired mother would be glad to converse
intelligently and sympathetically on equal
terms with some sister woman, but calls are
formal, dinners and teas are stupid affairs
usually, but the club comes in where all
meet on an equal footing, not to gossip, or
to talk scandal, but for mutual benefit and
that greater good to the larger number.
	If twenty-five or thirty women, or more
or less, unite to meet regularly for mutual
improvement, even then it may happen,
that a subject is sprung that is new to them
or to the world generally, for new ideas are
generated, or new phases of thought, as
well as new discoveries made. In such cases
certainly secure for the club the most able
exponent of the subject, to lecture or speak
upon it, that the whole club may get the
best that can be brought to bear upon the 
question.
	In all clubs there are some exceptionally
bright people who enthuse the majority,
carry them forward (so to speak), yet people
brought into close communication soon get
to know each other’s capacity and to compre-
hend what each one is equal to—and one
has to be diligent as well as brilliant not to
grow commonplace in the eyes of those
who meet them regularly. The saying “a
prophet is not without honor save in his
own country and in his own house, ”is a very
true one, think of it as you will; we all
know with what enthusiasm we go to hear
some new orator, or lecturer, even though
he may not be intellectually above those
with whom we are daily associated, yet it is
different, and stimulates our energies and
faculties. A change is wholesome, the great
world of nature teems with variety; and
there is nothing more disadvantageous to
the growth of the soul than to get into a 
rut, either in individual life, or in club
life, “variety is the spice of life,” and the
club needs new wine every now and then
to infuse and effusive, giving vigor, fresh-
ness and animation; people grow weary of
sameness, and pull contrariwise sometimes,
not because they are disagreeable but they
need uplifting. A club may and often
does tire of general work planned for them
even though they have consented to it,
those who take part may not be as brilliant
in dealing with questions as had been
anticipated, and in such cases it would seem
wise and expedient to have some outside
talent brought in; no one person knows it

[Column 2]
more, there may not be one who could tell
of actual experiences in Africa, or travels
up the Nile, or who had visited the Holy
Land, or been in East India, or a thousand
and one other things equally entertaining
and instructive. We are all of us likely to
tire of familiar themes and a new element
introduced occasionally increases the vigor
and power of development, brightens the
dull edge of wit, and sharpens the intellect.
In fact whenever a club talent introduced just
as you would send for a doctor in case of
sickness, sometimes two or three doctors
are needed; tone up the club with some-
thing strong, just as you would a patient,
apply a remedy that will be effectual, if
help can be procured.
No particular method can be laid down;
it seems to me these things must be left to
the discretion of the management, or a
committee wisely chosen, but certainly a 
club should take advantage of experts
along any line of thought, or of work in
which it is desirable to get the best and
most reliable information.
	All knowledge does not come from books,
there is the Great Teacher who inspires us all
in a greater or less degree, and none of us
know what may yet be developed in this
progressive age of the world, and whether
this new truth may be given to a sister wo-
man, or brother man, we may find our-
selves wiser, and better by living in a con-
dition to receive it. In summing up the
matter I would say outside talent may per-
haps depend too upon the financial condi-
tion of the club, that sometimes controls
larger interests in the community than club
life. To some people thoughts came pour-
ing in like great rivers, to others in little
streamlets clearer and purer perhaps, the
club may be the outlet and get the benefit
of the overflow of the great river, which
may refresh the parched soil, and the lit-
tle streamlet may, winding about here and
there, gladden many hearts with purer in-
spirations and be more desirable than the
great river.
	One great advantage of woman’s clubs is
the awakening of thought that bears fruit
in ideas, often very original ones, and per-
haps crude, but if one would not hesitate to
present these to the club, they might be
polished up and have a most brilliant set-
ting; only be sure and preserve the kernel,
or the essence of that which first came to
the individual, the seedling, dont lose the
positive thought through some sophistry of
expression. The world is moving onward
and the good time is surely coming when
we may grasp the ideal as well as the real,
instead of letting it soar away from us in
the dim distance, when we who have al-
ways longed to scale the heights inaccessi-
ble, may be uplifted above the clouds and
reaching down, help others to climb to a
place of safety above the storm and tempest,
but while we journey onward and upward,
let us clasp hands as sisters in sweet assur-
ance of helping each other to cross the
desert of ignorance and the dark river
of tradition, where the little boats of error
and superstition glide in and out alluring
the unwory. We will watch for the
beacon light of truth that shines from afar
over the Elysian fields of knowledge and
understanding. And while we pursue
our pioneer march, let us not forget the in-
numerable company that follow in our
wake, and leave for them shining waymarks,
hopeful harbingers of success in attaining
the goal of our—ambitions,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A UTAH WOMAN INVENTOR.

	MRS. JULIA FREKE SAMSON, of this City,
has invented an unique music holder
which she had patented Feb. 21st, 1893,
and which has been highly recommended
by musical people here and elsewhere, in
fact it will be a great convenience as the
following letters which are correct copies of
the original abundantly testify.
THE KNUTSFORD,
				Salt Lake City,
						Sep. 27, 1892.
	The music holder designed by Mrs. J.
Samson, examined by me this morning,
combines several advantages which will
commend it to musicians and students.
	Music can be sorted, held in position,
carefully protected from injuries and con-
veniently packed and carried about, by
means of this very comprehensive and
practical arrangement.
	The undersigned expects to save wear
and tear of music and considerable incon-
venience in the future by its use, 
	(signed) WILLIAM H. SHERWOOD,
Director Piano Department, 
				Chicago Conservatory.
	This Testimonial is certified to officially
by a Notary Public.
	Here also is another copy of a letter also
certified to in the same way.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Sep, 28, 1892.
Mrs. Samson:
	MY DEAR MADAME:—Your music
holder, the “Tallyho” is the very thing
our choir singers need to carry their books
in, and to protect from rains etc.
	Thousands of dollars are wasted yearly
by singers having to roll their books in
their hands in their way to and from re-
hearsal. This can now all be alleviated,
your ingenious device making it possible to
carry them straight—also to place them al-
together where nothing need be lost or
forgotten when wanted.
	What is so useful to choristers, must be
equally useful to all others who have, similar
books to carry and keep together. It must
succeed when known and understood for it
is so much needed.
			Yours,
				EVAN STEPHENS.
	Conductor of Tabernacle Choir and
Choral Society Salt Lake City.
	The “Tallyho” can be manufactured
here, and will, it is hoped, soon be put up-
on the market; the difficulty has been lack
of means, and yet it does seem very hard
when home products and articles are so
much talked of, that there cannot be means
furnished to manufacture what would
be so useful and economical in our own
community. The “Tallyho” was on ex-
hibition at the World’s Fair and elicited
considerable attention, but it wants
patronage as well as money. Those so
ardently interested in home work should
take pains to look into this matter. Wo-
men inventors are rare, and Utah should
make the most of those who have shown
ability in this line.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Tuesday evening, April 17th, a few
of the friends of Mrs. Emily H. Wood-
mansee met at her residence to show their
esteem and love for one, a sister and a poet,


who has always bravely defended the cause
of Zion under all adverse circumstances,
and in the days of prosperity has sung its
praises, and in joyful strains portrayed its
beauties and excellencies. Her poems are
all, of them rich with the inspiration of
Gospel truths.
	There were about thirty people present
and most of the sisters answered to the roll
call with an extract or verse, sometimes
more than one from Sister Woodmansee’s
own writings, which abound in sentiment
suitable to repeat on such occasions. There
were no formal addresses but some af-
fectionate expressions of good will and
such fellowship as promotes harmony and
an increase of love among friends whose
daily lives are full to overflowing of 
practical everyday matters in this work-a-
day world. Mrs. Woodmansee was
given a handsome copy of George Elliot’s
Poems. Mrs. E. B. Wells, in behalf of
the ladies,made the presentation; two of the
late lamented Sister Elizabeth Howards
daughters were present, all the way from
Big Cotton Wood. Mrs. Kate Howard
Brockbank, whose husband Elder Isaac
Brockbank, accompanied her and Mrs.
Mary Howard Brinton, Bishop Elias Mor-
ris and wife of the 15th Ward, and Bishop
George H. Taylor and wife of the 14th
Ward, Sisters M. Isabella Horne,
Lula Green Richards, Margaret
Y. Taylor, Mr. and Mrs Edward Steven-
son, Mrs. C. S. Thomas, Dr. E. R.
Shipp, Helen Mar Whitney, Mrs. Vilate
Romney and others, most of the sisters
spoke a few encouraging words, and Miss
Myrtle Woodmansee favored the company
with some piano music, giving choice selec-
tidns and delicious picnic added to the
social enjoyment, as refreshments ever do,
when the conversation is highly intellectual
and even spiritual.
	THE ladies of the World’s Fair Associa- 
tion of Davis County presented to the Salt
Take Temple the handsome set of furniture
made for their exhibit, and upholstered in
homemade silk (sage green,) the wood
carved in sego lilies, the floral emblem of
Utah. This furniture attracted much at-
tention in the parlor of the Utah Building,
it was a meritorious piece of workmanship
and now it is in a place appropriate to its 
artistic value. The design was by Utah
women and they may well be proud of
their brilliant success. A colored portrait of
Mrs. Amelia Spencer Rogers, surrounded
by some of the boys and girls of the Pri-
mary Association, handsomely framed, was
also given with the furniture. Mrs. Rogers
was the originator of the idea of our
Primary Associations, and the writer was
present when she first gave expression to
the thought to our former president and
leader, Sister Eliza R. Snow, who grasped
the situation, and with the assistance of
others as helps, organized the associations
that are now doing such good work
throughout the valleys of the mountains
we term Zion. The committee who pre-
sented the valuable exhibits to President
Lorenzo Snow in the Salt Lake Temple
were Sisters Lucy A. Clark, Jane Holt,
Athalia M. Steed and Anna Williams.


WOMANS EXPONENT.


THE Arena (Boston) closes its ninth
volume with the May number. The Arena
has made steady progress since its founda-
tion, and now firmly holds its place as one
of the three leading American reviews.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	[Concluded.]
	AFTERNOON SESSION:--Opened with
singing "O say what is truth" prayer by
Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, singing "For the
strength of the hills we bless thee" &c.
Minutes of previous October Conference
read (afternoon) Counselor L. M. Hart
Bear Lake Stake gave an excellent report
in a concise manner of the work in which
the sisters of that locality were engaged.
Mrs. Angeline Hinckley reported Millard
Stake as doing well and especially in regard
to the needy. Mrs. M. A. Grover in a 
very able manner spoke for Juab Stake, one
partiular feature of her remakrs being that
the young mothers come to meeting with
their babies. Mrs. M. A. Stoddard was
authorized to represent Cassia Stake in the
interest of which she did remarkably well.
	President Zina D. H. Young then spoke
upon the subject of silk culture and the
necessity of making preparations in time to
accomplish good results, explained in detail
some experiences in this direction, also
spoke particularly of the care of the sick
and of the ordinances of the Church, the
blessings which were to follow the be-
liever the cultivation of faith and the
virtue of prayer and of promoting greater
union.
	Counselor B. W. Smith made some ex-
cellent remarks about the Temple and the
sweet spirit prevailing in that sacred place,
thought all the Saints must be truthful,
upright and honest; increase in love and
good works, love each other and promote
the cause of righteousness and help for-
ward the interests of this kingdom; ex-
horted mothers to teach their children to be
industrious, and knew if they would, such
children would be more likely to grow up
honorable men and women, urged the
silk culture and the circulation of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, and many other home
industries and home subjects.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne gave out a notice con-
cerning the Woman's Store and the Circular
that had been prepared, solicited the
patronage of the women of the County,
thought the store should be better sus-
tained. Counselor Reese from Box Elder,
said some branches in the Stake were very
remote and could not be visited often but
once a year the President and others gener-
ally succeeded in reaching them; spoke
very highly of their President and  her
noble work.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards spoke very
interestingly upon a variety of subjects
urged the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT,
and to economize and do those things that
were necessary, felt that visiting the sick
and assisting and comforting them was in-
deed a labor of love; thought we should en-
courage silk raising, many of the trees
planted years ago are dead, but the people
should put out new ones, spoke of the
cyclones and many calamities that were
coming and felt if we wished to avoid these
things we must live near the Lord; those
who were aged should be diligent in season
and out of season and the young had no
time to lose.
	President F. A. Hammond of San Juan
Co. said he represented one of the largest
counties in area, but they only had eighty-
five votes, believed in woman suffrage, felt
that the Relief Society was a great power
and aid to the people, they had no Bishop's
trials, no family troubles, and no need of
difficulties, there were no whisky shops,
no gambling dens; the EXPONENT was ap-
preciated among them, he felt it was im-
portant for the sisters to have it and always
read it himself with great interest, the
speaker did’nt know much about seri-culture,
but he remembered the flax and tow, knew
how it could be utilized, the Lord has told
us, to adorn ourselves with our
own hands.
	President Z. D. H. Young made some
telling remarks about the EXPONENT urg-
ing the sisters to sustain it by their sub-
scription, asking those who did take it to
raise the right hand that she might see how
many there were; spoke of the request she
had made through the EXPONENT that all
the branches of the Relief Society should
study the lectures upon faith and seek to
get the spirit of them and that in so doing
they should be blest, said "have we left the
homes of our fathers and the graves of our
ancestors to come here and forsake the truth
and descend to lesser things? verily no, we
must keep the commandments of God in
that alone there is safety for us."
	The secretary, by request, read the
circular issued by the officers of the Wo-
man's Co-operative Store, which was com-
plete in itself and called for support from
the women of Zion, made some remarks up-
on subjects connected with the work of the 
society.
Mrs. Emily S. Richards spoke of the silk
of the Utah Exhibit in Chicago, described
the silk curtains, and the embroidery in
sego lilies, also the Provo and Logan cur-
tains and the linen exhibit from Springville,
and many other articles, described hur-
riedly her work at the World's Fair, and of
the great interest manifested in our women
and especially at a meeting in the organiza-
tion room where she had spoken of our
different associations, the Relief Society, the
Young Ladies' and the Primary, referred to
some influential women who had expressed
their astonishment, and Miss Anthony's
reply, in which she stated that she had
known of the organized work we had
been doing for years.  Mrs. Richards ex-
pressed her great satisfaction with our
position before the world and our connec-
tion with the National Council of Women,
explained how it first came about and
what an advantage it had been and would
be in the future.
	President J. N. Smith of San Luis
Colorado, spoke of the blessings and
privileges of the Gospel enjoyed by the
Saints in that locality, though all were poor,
and referred to it as the magnanimous state,
where women enjoyed and could exercise
the right of the ballot. President Ricks, of
Bannock Idaho, referred to the days of the
Prophet Joseph and gave some interesting
incidents of that period. President Haight
of Cassia, Idaho, related some facts that had
come to his notice in that Stake when the
Relief Society had accomplished very
material good, alluded to one instance
where the Society had helped to lift the
mortage from the property of a widow
which was a great temporal blessing, urged
the sisters to help in sustaining home
manufactories. President Horne gave
some notice of the circulars for the Wo-
man's Store and the congregation joined in
singing the Doxology. Benediction was
pronounced by President Thomas Ricks,
and Conference adjourned for six months.
	E. B. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.
	THE Club met at Dr. Shipp's Office on
the evening of April 28th; an extra large
number of ladies’ in attendance. The roll
call was responded to with choice quota-
tions from the poets. Ella W. Hyde read
a paper which she had prepared, on the
“Life and work of John Howard Payne,”
author of the old but ever touching “Home,
Sweet Home." An original poem,
entitled, “Fickle April,” was read by Ruth
M. Fox, who was also the author. Olea
Shipp favored the club with music.
Dr. E. B. Ferguson read a very able and
scholarly paper on the subject of
Psychology, dealing especially with the
Intellect: showing its several divisions and
subdivisions, the actions and province of
this department of self as distinguished
from the other powers of the mind. 
	The second part of this subject, assigned
to Miss G. Woodmansee, was carried over
for one month by request. Mrs. A. E.
Bennion followed with a lecture on the
“Will.”' Explained the importance of the
position which it occupies in the mental
economy. By way of illustration, the
lady refered to the benefit the world has
reaped from the persistence or will of
Columbus, and other discoverers and inven-
tors. As examples of those possessing
wonderful will power she named, Patrick
Henry, Joseph Smith, Brigham Young
and among our intimate friends, E. B.
Wells, Dr. E. R. Shipp and others. How
would they have succeeded without this
power? Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, who was
pleased to be with the club again, after a
long absence, gave a recitation, entitled,
“The Old Church Organ,” as told by a
yankee; rendering it in her well remember-
ed and pleasing manner.  Pearl Russell
gave a pretty vocal selection and E. B.
Wells read a poem, entitled, “Leona.” 
	Miscellaneous business was attended to
and the critic wishing to be excused from
that task until next month, it was dispensed
with. Benediction by Mrs. Z. D. H.
Young. Refreshments and discussion fol-
lowed until the time for adjournment.
	Programe for May 31st:—Lecture on
Psychology, “The Feeling,” Gladys
Woodmansee; Music, Lizzie Shipp; Poem,
original, Dr. E. R. Shipp; Paper on
Theosophy, Dr. R. B. Pratt; members to 
respond to roll with sentiments from Pope. 
	GLADYS WOODMANSEE, Rec. Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.
  
		JUAB STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society of the Juab Stake
held in the Nephi Tabernacle, Dec. 15th,
1883. President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Sang, “Come, dearest Lord, descend and
dwell,” prayer by Counselor Charles
Sperry. Continued by singing, “Come
thou desire of all thy Saints," minutes of
the last Conference read and approved.
President Pitchforth, in her opening ad-
dress, prayed that the Spirit of God might
rest upon her, as also those assembled that
every word might be dictated thereby.
Spoke at some length on the advancement
of the young, was very much interested in
the young ladies and gentlemen of Nephi;
asked the blessings of God on all present,
that at the close of our conference we can
say it is good to have met together. Sang,
“Now let us rejoice in the day of Salva-
tion."

[Column 2]
	Sister Wilkey represented First Ward of
Nephi, Sister Lerwell, Mona; Sister
Christenson Levan branches, all being in
excellent condition. Meetings were well
attended and a unity of' feeling existing in
their midst.
	Singing “Fear not, I am with thee.”
By the suggestion of President Pitchforth.
	Sister S. A. Cazier offered an inspired
prayer in behalf of Sister Udall. Sister
Udall having left the meeting to appear be-
fore the commissioners.
	Counselor Hannah Jones referred to the
prayer offered by Sister Cazier, she was
truly inspired; referred to Sister Wells’
speech in the suffrage meeting, had learned
more than she had ever known of that
association. Was in favor of the associa-
tion, and the rights of women.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the shadow
that had fallen on our meeting through the
arrest of Sister Udall. Sister Zina Young
had sent her love to the sisters, would very
much like to have been with them, desired
the sisters to cultivate the spirit of faith,
read the Lectures on Faith in the Doctrine
and Covenants, advised that practice to be
introduced in all the branches of the Relief
Society. Not any of us were safe without
faith, we always need it. Spoke of the
good that had been wrought for Zion, the
benefits of the Salt Lake Temple and how
much good had been done there, referred to
the storing of grain, also the respect shown
to the Salt Lake Choir in attending the
World’s Fair, had been very much in-
terested in the reports of the sisters. Urged
them to cultivate more and greater faith
in our midst. Sang, Doxology. Prayer
by Brother Hartley,adjourned until 2 p. m.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—President Pitch-
forth persiding. Singing, “I know that
my Redeemer lives.” Prayer by President
Paxman. Sister Udall represented Second
Ward of Nephi in good condition, felt
grateful for the prayers offered up in her
behalf, had felt the influence of the prayer,
testified that it had been answered,
desired to prove true and faithful. Sister
Bryan felt blessed in a knowledge of the
Gospel, prayed God to bless all, with every
blessing that would be for our good.
	Sister Wells spoke at some length on
the silk industry, advised the sisters to
plant mulberry trees, and raise cocoons;
gave a discription of some of the exhibits,
at the World’s Fair, referred briefly to the
different meetings of women at Chicago.
	Reading by Sister Chappell, “He
willed it so.”
	President Pitchforth had been very
much interested in listening to the remarks
of Sister Wells, felt that the God we wor-
ship will protect us in the faith we believe
in. Was thankful for the gospel and all
the blessings we receive.
	Recitation by Sister S. A. Cazier,
“Wherefore and Why,” composed by
Sister Emily H. Woodmansee.
	President Paxman was pleased to have
Sister Wells with us to explain so intelle-
gently what transpired at the World’s Fair,
referred to the silk industry; felt that the
time would come when we would dress in
the silk raised here. Spoke of
the manifestations of God in many ways to
his poor and how full of gratitude we
should be, prayed God to be with us and
seal upon our hearts what had been said.
	Singing, “We thank thee O God for
a prophet,” benediction by Bro. Charles
Sperry.

[Column 3]
	RELIEF Society Conference, March 16,
1894, President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
Sang, “Praise ye the Lord.” Prayer by
Brother Sperry. “My God the spring of
all my joys.” Elder John L. Nuttall was
the first speaker. Had become very much
interested in the Relief Society in all its
stakes and branches. Explained the new
organization of the Relief Society, said it
is a church organization, the same church,
the same laws and the same sisters; spoke
of the energy of President Young in these
societies dwelt at some length on the duties
of the officers and members of the Society,
also on the necessity of storing grain.
Choir sang, “Redeemer of Israel."
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved.
	President Pitchforth then read the
Eureka yearly report, also a letter from the
president of the Levan branch, represent-
ing the Levan Ward in good condition,
spoke of the energy of the sisters and their
faithful labors, felt it a privilege to bear
testimony to the truth of this work, hoped
that the Lord would accept our repentance
for what we have failed to do in the past
and be merciful to us in the future.
	Sister Wilkey represented First Ward and
Sister Udall Second Ward of Nephi as being
in excellent condition; a unity of feelings
existing with officers and members.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation."
Counselor Bigler was very much interested
in listening to the reports, also the speakers;
felt that we were truly blessed of the Lord
at all times. Counselor Jones said her
soul rejoiced in the blessings of God to this
people, felt that all the branches in the Juab
Stake were filled with the same spirit, spoke
of the growth of the soctiey, and the in-
telligence of the young.
	Sister Bryan knew that the work was
true, wished to live worthy of all the
blessings in store for the faitliful. The
Lord knew how to chastise his people, 
He always did it in a proper manner; asked
the blessings of God upon all present.
	President Pitchforth presented the officers
of the Juab Stake, which were sustained by
unaminous vote. Elder James Paxman
said his heart had been made glad to hear
the excellent reports of the sisters, the
work of the Relief Society was a great
labor, the sisters hearts were as large as
mountains, had nothing but blessings in his
heart for them; spoke of the good results of
a loving kind influence at home, the
responsibility rests upon mothers, your
mission is at home, let home be first, other
duties after. Spoke of the testimonies of
the sisters and the good they had done.
	President Paxman, said if we could
retain what had been said we should be
truly benefited by coming, referred to the
Relief Society, said that the bishops had
testified to him of the help and comfort the 
sisters were to them. Spoke on the storing
of grain, encouraged the storing of corn and
beans as Brother Nuttall had previously
referred to it, thought that the articles of
faith instructed by Sister Young to be read
in each society would be of great benifit to
us, spoke in praise of the officers of the
society, the Lord was with them at all
times to sustain them and build them up.
Concluded by saying “may the Lord pour
out his blessings upon all.” After singing
and prayer conference adjourned for three
months.
	ELLEN L. GOLDSBROUGH, Sec


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


W.S.A.

	MINUTES of W.S.A. held April 17th,
1894, third Vice President Julia Druce in
the chair. Singing "Search for Freedom"
prayer by Mrs. E.M. Price, singing “Help
the Working women.” Roll called by the
Secretary. Minutes of the previous meet-
ing read and approved. Dr. M. Hughes
Cannon being the first on the program
responded, gave a very interesting address
on the rights and and ability of woman, dwell-
ing on the force of character of the
Spartan women and the courage of the
Roman women; recited "The Gladiator."
Spoke on women being accused of too
much slavery to fashion to have anything
to do with politics brought to bear the time
when men shaved off their hair and wore
wigs. Mrs. E.M. Price spoke very
eloquently on Queen Elizabeth's Statesman-
ship. Mrs. Ella W. Hyde spoke on Suf-
frage proper; thought there was not the
shadow of a doubt but what we would one
day get the franchise, exhorted us to study
the suffrage subject. Mrs. May Talmage
was invited to say a few words, stated she
had been absent so long did'nt feel prepared
said it was the same with suffrage as other
things we must study and keep ourselves
bright. Mrs. Fox made some interesting
remarks; recited a poem “My Fortieth
Birthday” composed by herself which
she did in a very sympathetic manner.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball Honorary
President gave a short address and alluded
to the honor conferred upon Mary the
mother of the Savior in a very interest-
ing way and referred to traditions concern-
ing Mary and the angel Gabriel.
	Mrs. M.A. Freeze thought if immoral
men like Colonel Breckenridge could help
make laws, when the women got the
franchise they would elect better men.
President E.J. McFarlane suggested we
had a spirited poem recited or read every
meeting, her remarks were followed by a
few words of counsel from Vice President
Ardella Eardly, the ladies adjourned to the
parlor and were entertained with music and
singing by Miss Fay McCune. Meeting
was then adjourned for one month.
	M.E. IRVINE, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS. 

	MRS. LOUISE CHANDLER MOULTON WILL
sail for Europe about May 26.
	MR. and MRS. RUDYARD KIPLING and
the baby Kipling have sailed for England,
where they will spend the summer.
	JOHN BRISBEN WALKER, publisher of
the Cosmopolitan, has decided to move his
plant and publication office from New York
to Irvington-on-the-Hudson, where he now
resides. 
	MRS. OLIVE THORNE MILLER has put
into a book called "A Bird-Lover in the
West” her observations and experiences of
birds in Ohio, Colorado, and Utah.
	WHILE a student at Oxford, Mr. Glad-
stone was one of the competitors for the
Ireland scholarship but failed. "Desultory
beyond belief,” is what the principal
examiner wrote on Gladstone’s paper, and
he went so far as to charge the future states-
man with “throwing dust into the
examiner’s eyes, like a man who, when
asked, who wrote ‘God Save the-King?’
answered ‘Thomson wrote ‘Rule Britanna.”


UTAH SILK ASSOCIATION
BYLAWS.

Article I.—Name.
	THIS Association shall be known as the
Utah Woman’s Silk Association.
Article 2.—Object. 
	The object of this association shall be to
encourage silk culture in Utah by dis-
seminating information, distributing silk
worm eggs and acting as a central bureau
for the sale of cocoons and the manufacture 
of silk.
Article 3.—Officers and Executive Board
	The officers shall consist of a Board of
Directors of seven members, to be elected
annually by the Association; and the
Directors within a week after their election
shall from their number, elect a President,
Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer.
Article 4.—Membership.
	Any woman residing in Utah may become
a member of this Association, by signing
the by-laws and paying an initiation fee of
twenty-five cents. The membership fee
and all other moneys raised by the Associa-
tion may be used for the expense of the
Association at the direction of the Executive
Board.
Article 5.—Meetings.
	The Board of Directors shall meet fort-
nightly on Tuesday at 11 a. m. A quorum
shall consist of four members. The As-
sociation shall meet twice a year at such
time and place as the Board of Directors
shall designate. One third of the member-
ship of the Association shall constitute a 
quorum.
Article 6.—Amendments.
	These by-laws may be amended at any
regular meeting of the Board of Directors
by a two thirds majority vote of the mem-
bers present, notice having been given at a
previous meeting.
Margaret B. Salisbury, President; E. B.
Wells, Vice-President; C. M. Allen, Secre-
tary Margaret A. Caine, Treasurer. 
	Board of Directors:—Margaret B. Salis
bury, Isabella Bennett, Zina D. H. Young,
Amelia F. Young, Emmeline B. Wells,
Corinne M. Allen, Margaret A. Caine.


OBITUARY.

	IT is with feelings of sadness we have been
called to part with one of our sisters. Sister
Amanda Person who suddenly and unexpectedly
departed this life on the morning of the 24, of Jan.
at her home near Sandy, the cause of her death
being premature child-birth, after a brief sick-
ness of only a few short hours.
	She was born in Ostamar, Sweden, her age
twenty seven years and two months and was the
wife of Henry M. Person. She was the mother of
five children, four of whom, including the in-
fant buried with her, are dead. One only, a little
boy five years old, being left.
	Sister Amanda Person joined the church in 1878
and emigrated with her parents in 1880, her
residence being at Sandy, where she gained love.
and confidence of all who were associated with her
She was a true wife and mother and a faithful
Latter-day Saint. She was a member of the
Relief Society. The funeral services were held
in Sandy Meeting House the 27th Jan. The
large concourse of sympathizing friends evidenc-
ed the respect and esteem, in which the family
were held.
Dear Sister Amanda, thou art gone 
	To dwell in realms above,
To await the resurrection, morn
When you’ll meet with those you love.
	WILHILMINA OLSEN, Prest.
	HILDA LARSON, Sec.


GARFIELD BEACH TRAINS.
Commencing May 31st Trains between Salt Lake and Garfield
will run as follows:
Leave Salt Lake:		Arrive Salt Lake:
*7:45 a. m.			12:40 p. m.
10:20 “				*4:00 “
2:00 p. m.			4:40 “
3:00 “				6:10 “
†6:30 "				†10:10 “
*Daily except Sunday. †Daily except Monday.
	Olsen’s Orchestra in attendance every
afternoon and evening. Fare round trip 50¢
S. H. H. Clark,			D. E. BURLEY
Oliver W. Mink,			GEN. AGT PASS. DPET.
E. Ellery Anderson,
John W. Doane,
Frederic R. Coudert.

[Refers to the above names]
Receivers.

G. F. CULMER & BROS.,
Manufacturers of 
SHOW CASES, MIRRORS,
AND ASPHALTUM VARNISHES.
DEALERS IN
Window Glass, Paints, Oils and Brushes.

LUBRICATING OILS.

USE READY MIXED PAINTS
	and Diamond Wall Finish.

19 COMMERCIAL AVENUE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimme
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. B
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty

No. 41 S. 	WEST TEMPLE STRTE
			Opp. Grand Bros. Stables


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

