VOL. 22.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1893.			NO. 3


CONTENTS:
	In Rural England—A Story. Women as
Typesetters—The Journalist. U. W. P. Club—
Ellis R. Shipp. Reorganization—Martha Bar-
row. R. S. Reports. The War of 1812. Fight-
ing the Gipsy Moth. The Sabbath Day—Anon.
Miscellaneous. Resolutions of Respect. Obitu-
aries.
	EDITORIAL.—The Present Condition. Bohe-
mian Women. A Pleasant Garden Party. A
Pictorial Chart. The Silk Industry in Utah.

	POETRY.—The Old Home—E. L. G.	A Prayer
Tooele Stake Primary—Ellis R. Shipp. With a
Portrait—E. J.	A Glimpse of Utah Lake—Laura
St. Vrain.


THE OLD HOME.

THE gray storm-beaten farm house,
	At the top of the wonderful hill;
And the great barns on beyond it;
	Are standing there cold and still.

The house is quaint and rambling,
	The window panes many and small;
Its color is faded to ashen, 
	From the once pure white of its wall.

The sitting room floor so uneven,
	Is the same as ever today;
It came from a sunken rafter,
	And sloped from the centre each way.

But the low rocking chair of mother’s. 
	Just fitted the slope of the floor;
And father’s arm chair in the centre,
	Stood happily facing the door.

The dear little white-walled chamber,
	Just off from the family room,
Is hallowed by sweeter mem’ries,
	Than any about the home.

For there so gentle and patient,
	My mother in sickness hath lain,
While we watched and waited beside her,
	Through hours of anguish and pain.

And there those dread days in winter,
	Came grim and unbidden death,
And from father, mother and brother,
	Took the feeble, fluttering breath.

The cool, old airy kitchen,
	With its white-sand polished floor,
The little old-fashioned parlor,
	With the obstinate creaking door.

The steep and walled-in stair-way,
	The tiny room beyond,
With its bed and home-made covers,
	By angel hands made fond. 

The well with its oaken bucket, 
	The spring at the foot of the hill,
With the buttercup strewn meadow,
	Delight my vision still.

And the sun that shines upon them,
	Is a brighter fairer sun,
Than shines on other meadows, 
	Though I viewed them one by one.
 
The walls have a subtle perfume,
	And a smile of welcome home, 
They seem to lean and beckon,
	To one who used to roam.


The cellar, the shed and the pantry,
	Have none of the dingy gloom,
Which lingers in other houses,
	And in many a rich-walled room. 

Oh hallowed home of childhood!
	I cannot see thee now!
But the home of father and mother,
	Is a shrine at which I bow.
							E. L. G.


IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XXXIII.

	LADY ANNA never quite recovered from
the shock of Aunt Walton’s insinuations
about ghosts and legends, and Maitland
who was perfectly innocent on the subject
could not satisfy her, not knowing any-
thing himself; but poor Anna was now
more determined than ever to leave Walton
Hall, where she had never felt very happy,
and as Maitland (now really Lord Walton
having rightfully inherited the title) paid
no regard to her wishes, but absented him-
self more and more from his home, she be-
came so obstinate as to declare, that unless
he would go abroad with her, she would
write to Uncle Rob to make arrangements
for her to sail for America.
	Lord Walton in settling up matters after
his mother’s marriage found himself
burdened with a large landed estate, and
very small revenue to maintain it, and
therefore saw something must be done to
save Walton Hall from irretrievable ruin;
and was more willing to listen to Anna’s
proposals to leave England. To him the
whole world was hanging as it were by a
single thread, he had gone through all his
ready money, his lawyers would not allow
him to overdraw a farthing; he had no
resources to fall back upon, his mother had
united her fortunes with another race, and
he could thenceforth have no claim upon
her; he had played a desperate game, and
lost; and though his wife knew nothing of
all this, he was self-condemned. Maitland
Walton was not wholly bad, and he might
have retrieved his fallen fortunes even then,
but his wife was of that weak and plastic
mold that society favors and countenances,
and he had no one to look to. Had Anna
been made of the same strong material as
her cousin Jane, and bravely looked into
the difficulty, for her intuition told her
something was amiss, Maitland might have
lifted his head above water once more; but
his good fortune had seemingly forsaken
him, and Anna begged him to leave Eng-
land forever. She only thought of peace
and rest, and the enjoyment of home ties
with husband and child, she could not
grasp all the advantages that might accrue
from estate, and titles, and rank. Lord
Walton was involved, his creditors were on
his track, his mother’s marriage had been
published and his claims upon the estate
were not what had been expected, and Sir
Clair Hilliard was the heir of Sir Edward
instead of Lady Anna, and gossip was
ready with busy tongue to enlarge upon
the situation and pour out vials of bitter-

[column 2]
ness upon the troubled waters, that
seethed and boiled ominously. Maitland
kept all that was disagreeable from his wife,
but Dr. Bland became aware from other
sources of the very unpleasant circum-
stancs that environed those in whom he
had interested himself, and resolved, to go
where disgrace could not overtake Anna,
whose delicacy could not stand calumny
and reproach, who was not only very dear
to him, because of her innocence and purity,
and his intimate association with the
family, but he knew that to Jane (his
darling wife) she was as “the apple of her
eye.” Jane Conway had set her affections
upon her cousin Anna, when she first
came to the old castle, because of her
instinctive love of beauty and purity that
were so apparent, and when she saw how
innocent and inexperienced she was, how
neglected, and how insolated, her girlhood
had been, she felt all the motherly nature
inherent in her soul, rise up in her defense
and to protect her. Since her marriage
she noted how neglectful Maitland had
been, while Dr. Bland had shown her
every attention a wife could wish for, and
knowing all this, Dr. Bland decided to go
away, and take his wife and her cousin
where life might be begun anew, and all
the old hideous past be buried, or hidden
away or blotted out, and the future be
bright with promise and hopeful anticipa-
tion. In fact the Doctor believed in Mait-
land’s strength to rise superior to his
surroundings, and make a name and for-
tune, without heredity, as he had done,
through his own superior powers and
ability.
	Once the Doctor’s plans were matured in
his own mind, he opened the subject to his
wife; and she coincided immediately, and
made her calculations to lose no time, but
apprise Anna right away and prepare to set
sail before the Autumnal storms.
	We who live in this prophetic age, look
back and wonder why they who were thus
wrought upon to open up the new world,
could not comprehend the purposes of the
Lord in establishing another form of
government upon this continent, but we
to day are just as ignorant of what is yet
to transpire, as were our ancestors who
came to America in those early times.
	The mysterious plans and movements of
the ages as they come and go, are not given
us to know, but are in the hands of one
who is all powerful, and all-seeing, and we
only bide the issues of the hour that to us
are marvelous and beyond finite comprehen-
sion. Yet we know that the best blood of
the old world, the descendants of the most
noble men and womeu, born with the in-
herited freedom of privileges that descends
through generations from father to son, and
mother to daughter, culminated in the race
that gave to Amerlca its freedom and liberty
of thought and of conscience. It could
not have been otherwise. No servile race
could have broken the tyrant’s chain only
free-born men and women, who knew their
own power and superiority and their equal-
ity with the best people of the mother


[Column 1]
country, of which they were a dominant
part.
	Lady Anna was delighted when her
cousin gave her the first intimation of going
to an unknown country, and exclaimed
“O, Cousin Jane, let me go away from
this dreadful place where I have known
only misery and discontent, I fancied love
such as I hoped to obtain in marriage, 
would crown my life with supreme happi-
ness but how vain were all my foolish
dreams; how selfish I was; I could have
done so much to make Hilliard castle a
happy home for my father in his declining
years, and made up to him his great loss
and bereavement, for my mother’s death;
and my brother Clair had we known in my
father’s life-time of his existence could have
relieved him of the burdens of the estate;
—O, why can’t we know these things in
time and save ourselves and others so much
unhappiness.’’
	“The good Father has not so ordered it,
my dear cousin and we must submit to h1s
interposition and acknowledge his Hand
in all that comes to us here, whether it is
as we would wish it, or otherwise. We
are not the arbiters of our own destiny, and
if we were, I question whether we should
plan as well as our Heavenly Father does
for us in all matters.”
	“Dear cousin Jane, how good you are,
and how wise; I am not fit to battle with
life, I need the faith and trust in a higher
power that you possess, and I know not
how to gain it, what shall I do to reach
that confidence in a divine power that you
have attained? teach me how to rise out of
this doubt and gloom that gathers round
me like a cloud, and obscures all that is
beautiful, shutting out the light of heaven,
and leaving me enveloped in the darkness
of despair.”
	“You must not give way to such fancies
Anna, you are not to blame, rest assured
we will see happier days, meantime busy
yourself with needful preparations, and
leave Maitland to the Doctor’s persuasive
arguments.”
	And for the time Lady Anna was pacified
and let things take their course. Aunt
Walton becoming convinced that Anna
would not go to the seashore, left the Hall
to seek new fields, and Maitland was more
mindful of home and set about winding
up his affairs, taking advice from
Doctor Bland who had approached him in a
way that secured his confidence at once.
	Such were some of the peculiar con-
ditions that brought to America in early
times, people of education and delicacy of
feeling and sentiment. That there was a
design and purpose in all these things we
who live in this dispensation firmly believe.
When Doctor Bland and young Lord Wal-
ton talked the matter over together of going
into a new country, and took counsel how
best to proceed, half the difficulties and
embarrassment that had seemed positive
obstacles were removed and the way seemed
to open up before them readily. In those
days there were many inconveniences to
encounter that those who travel now know
nothing of, and to these ladies they were
hardships; yet Lady Anna had often
thought if she were on a desert island with
Maitland by her side and baby in her arms
to do as she pleased with, she could be
happy. She little knew what it really
meant, (child of fortune as she was) to be
deprived of any luxury, worse still to
“rough it” in a land of red men and un-
trodden forests.

[Column 2]
	It is well for us all that in the economy
of heaven we are kept in ignorance of the
future, or it would often be impossible for
us to walk fearlessly into the fiery furnace
of trial as we do, we would need greater
faith and superior knowledge to enable us to
live out the allotted time here upon earth
were we thus forewarned.
	Mrs. Bland and her cousin made the tour
of the dear old castle and grounds more
than once taking note of everything of
special interest not only for memory’s sake,
but that they might tell it all in detail to
their children in years to come. As for
Walton Hall the only feeling Lady Anna
had was to forget she had ever lived in it;
she could not take into consideration the
fact that it was the inheritance of her son,
that he would succeed to the title in time—
her ideas and sentiments all centered now in
Hilliard castle and that would belong to
Clair. There was no one who interested
her in the matter and she was left to her
own surmisings; she had never alluded
to her cousin Jane to the insinuations of
Maitland’s aunt, but it worried her, and
when one morning her maid informed her
that some of the servants had seen a strange
woman about the galleries; she shivered
with nervous dread, and could scarcely
keep from betraying her fears. She con-
soled herself with the thought that she
would soon be far away. and then second-
arily remembering her cousin’s prophetic
nature ordered the carriage to drive over
and see her and impart the secret that
weighed upon her mind,and ask her advice.
	Arriving early in the day Mrs. Bland
suspected something wrong, and besides
Lady Anna was pale with excitement.
“What is the matter with you cousin, is
baby Edward ill?” after the first greetings
were exchanged ,was her cousin’s first
thought. “O, no but Aunt Walton once
hinted to me that there were strange stories
about Walton Hall, and that ghosts had
been seen there, but I tried not to believe
it, because she was always trying to induce
me to go here and there making all kinds
of pretexts."
	“Depend upon it cousin Anna this is
servant’s gossip, there’s not an old castle or
hall in all England that has not at some-
time or other had a rumor like this circula-
ted by superstitious servants.” And by
such good reasoning Lady Anna’s fears
were allayed for the time being, and she
returned home in better spirits, the fresh
air and invigorating helpfulness of cousin
Jane lifting her from the temporary des-
pondency. In her childhood her maid and
even her French governess had allowed
her to read queer stories, and she recollected
that these apparitions were said to make
their appearance when some great event
was to transpire in the family, and she had
immediately construed this to mean disaster
of some serious nature; but her cousin’s
confidence had given her courage, and she
reflected that were it really an omen it
might only be the important fact of Mait-
land and herself leaving Walton Hall for-
ever. It was comparatively easy for Doc-
tor Bland to dispose of his property and
wind up his affairs, though it necessitated a
journey into the North of England to bid
his relatives farewell. With young Lord
Walton things were more complicated, his
mother did not oppose him, he was glad of
that, and he felt Dr. Bland would be a wise
counselor and true friend, but there were
many matters to be adjusted and he might

[Column 3]
be absent for years, and indeed never re-
turn again, and the great responsibility and
the giving up of position in the country of
his ancestry made an impression that
brought him to his sober senses, and he
looked upon the past few years of his life
as an almost unpardonable mistake, and
folly in the extreme.


WOMANS EXPONENT


TOOELE STAKE PRIMARY.

CHILDREN, beautiful and noble!
	By our father you are sent,
From his high and holy mansion—
	Each to be a faithful Saint;
Here to learn both light and wisdom,
	And your minds with truth instil
Here on earth a faithful mission
	Each of you must nobly fill.

In your early lives beginning,
	Day by day to learn the truth,
Shunning evil ways, and sinning
	Scatter sunshine in your youth;
Gather pearls of understanding,
	Kernels glean of golden grain,
Listen to the wise, commanding
	You to shun the paths of pain.

Well we know that tears and sorrow
	Ever come from evil doing,
Look ye forth then to the morrow
	Ever righteous works pursuing,
For true knowledge be thou reaching,
	Seek a noble life to live,
Heed thou then the earnest teaching,
	Faithful parents ever give.

Parents, teachers too are ready
	E’er your youthful feet to guide,
And your tottering form to steady,
	Leading you to Fathers side,
And he too, in tender mercy
	E’er will heed your fervent pray’rs,
For he hears the cry of ravens
	And has numbered all your hairs.

He will help you, if you ask him
	To be wise, and good and strong,
Obedient to parent’s counsel,
	And to shun the paths of wrong,
In the spring-time of existence,
	Plant the seeds of truth, and light
That will bring a bounteous harvest,
	Fruits and flowers to greet thy sight.

E’er be gentle with each other—
	Love and kindness bring most joy
Honor father dear, and mother
	Never worry, nor annoy,
Think how they have watched and loved you
	Since a helpless babe you came,
Pure and innocent from Heaven,
	Beaming as a brilliant flame.

Then, O! seek to give them comfort,
	By becoming good, and great
Walking e’er in paths of virtue,
	As you reach to man’s estate,
Work and study faith and prayer,
	Lead to wisdom, light and truth,
Then dear children, have a watch care, 
	Seek O! seek these in thy youth:

Thus you’ll gain the greatest pleasure
	Greatest joy, and comfort know
Light, and wisdom, without measure
	Father’s willing to bestow,
And at last, an exaltation,
	With his righteous Saints above,
Giving endless life—Salvation!
	In that holy home of love. 
			Lovingly,
					ELLIS R. SHIPP
June 9th, 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A PRAYER.

	[Com[-]osed and read at the fnneral services of
Sister Louisa Taylor, Goshen March 17th, 1893 by
Christina Higginson.]

God of mercy direct me this wearisome day,
A kind word of comfort to loved ones to say.
To cheer up the hearts of the tried and the true
For all their dependence is centered in you.

Be near with Thy comforting influence sweet,
For the hearts of our loved ones in agony beat,
This day finds their senses all numb with despair;
Bless them and comfort them now is my prayer.
Their hearts are bereaved for the loved one that’s
	gone,
They mourn her and miss her so much from
	their home,
But her mission is over, her body’s at rest;
She mingles with friends in the land of the
	blest.
Her life speaks a volume of kind words and
	deeds,
She has spent a long life in supplying the needs,
Of the poor and the lowly, the tried and the true;
There was nothing too much for her kind heart to
	do.

Her children will miss her kind influence sweet
Their circle at home will be never complete,
Without their loved mother, for mother love
	heals
All the aches and the pains that humanity feels

But ah me! What comfort—what heavenly fire—
The hearts of her loved ones will ever inspire.
To know that they acted with kindness and love
To their mother who’s gone to the mansions
	above.

Well worthy is she to receive the reward—
“Well done! enter into the joys of the Lord.”
She goes to her rest with a record as pure
As the snow on the mountains, and will ever en-
	dure.

And when the last trump of the Lord sounds
	abroad,
“Come, arise with the just; come and dwell with
	thy Lord.”
Her frame now so worn will rise in its might,
And forever will dwell in the mansions of light.

O, Father be kind to the loved ones below,
’Til thy Fatherly summons may bid them to go, 
To join their loved parent in mansions above,
I pray for all this with a spirit of love.


[Column1]
WOMEN AS TYPESETTFRS.
	GREASED lightning don’t seem to be in
it, so to speak, as a comparison to the way
the printer woman’s fingers traveled over
the big rack full of little boxes, which she
called a case, and dropped little chunks of
lead into the piece of metal she held in her
hand, and which is known to the initiated
as a “stick.”
	“Would you give some points concerning
printing as a trade for women?”
	Most certainly she would, and she knew
whereof she talked, for it is twenty-five
years since her mother obtained admission
for her as a very great favor into a little
country newspaper office, where she was to
learn the trade as a boy learns it. She be-
gan as the printer’s devil, and did all sorts
of work afterward, from running errands
to making up the forms.
	“That’s the trouble,” she says, with
girls who learn the trade nowadays. They
are not thorough. Not one in twenty-five
of them who say they are experts know
anything about any other part of the trade
than typesetting. Many of them don’t

[Column 2]
seem to want to learn any more of it.
They manage to get into some office to 
learn the trade, and are given a case and
taught the letters. You know this doesn’t
happen to a boy apprentice for a long time,
and getting cases is regarded as quite an
event. They are paid about twenty cents
a thousand ems for all the matter they set
up, and when they’ve been working about
three months they consider themselves ex-
perts and go and hunt up a new job where
if their employer doesn’t know how long
they’ve been working at the trade, he is
apt to give them thirty or thirty-five cents.
The regular scale which men receive is
 from forty to fifty cents a thousand. But,
really I’m sorry to say that their cheapness
is about the only thing that recommends
women printers. That is, I mean, the
average young girl printer. They won’t
do things that men will. They want too
much waiting on. Some of them think its
quite the proper thing to be real delicate
and weak. They can’t possibly lift cases.
If they work in the office with men they
waste a great deal of the men’s time by
asking for assistance. If the men object,
and perhaps refuse to work in the office
with them, their employer gets a boy to
wait on them.
	“Certainly, it’s a good trade for women
if they treat it properly. Girls who work
in union offices—there are a few who do,
although the total number of women who
belong to the union is hardly a hundred—
make from $16 to $18. I know of at least
three women who have charge of depart-
ments in large printing houses, who began
as typesetters, and who receive from $18 to
$25 a week. There are about 6,000 printers
in New York, and less than 500 of that
number are women. It’s a bit odd, too,
that so few should be in the field, where
the pay is apparently good. I say apparent-
ly, for the simple reason that although the
pay is comparatively good, much better, in-
deed, than that received by the average
saleswoman, bookkeeper, stenographer, or
other woman worker, it is not so good as it
should be—that is men, for the same work,
frequently receive twice as much pay.
Within the past five or six years a great
many girls have learned typesetting, and
the trade already begins to suffer from the
girl who lives at home and isn’t particular
about getting the market value for her
work.
	“Just now I have a good job; I’m get-
ting $18 a week, but I’m general factotum.
I set type, read proof, and keep an eye on
the other girls in the room. A short time
ago I happened to be out of work and I 
learned more about the prices that women
work for, than I ever dreamed of before.
I walked, rode and got about in various 
ways to half the shops between here and
Harlem, looking for a job. I could have 
got in half a dozen places. In one I was
offered twenty-five cents a thousand ems.
In another I was offered $8 a week. The
highest sum was $12. The lowest I had
ever worked for since the first four years,
when I served my apprenticeship, was $15,
and I had been getting $20 just before the
firm for which I worked went out of busi-
ness. I was also offered an opportunity of
learning how to run a machine, which, I
was informed, would in time supplant all
flesh-and-blood workmen. I was offered
$4.50 to commence. By dint of inquiry, I
learned that the highest sum paid was $12
a week for ten hours’ work daily. I didn’t

[Column 3]
accept. I asked if women were preferred
for any other reason than their cheapness,
and was informed that they were steadier
more reliable, neater and more conscien-
tious. This being the case, it seemed to
be even more unjust that they should re-
ceive so much smaller pay. The employer, 
however, didn’t help me out any in this
particular. He simply gave me that 
ancient story about a man having a family
to support and a woman’s being able to 
live cheaper.
	“In union offices, of course, the rates
are equal, but as a rule you don’t find many
women employed in those places.
	“In the big newspaper offices you will
find a few women employed as distributors.
These are among the few really fat jobs
that fall almost exclusively into the hands
of women. There are probably about
twenty-five of them in New York. Their
wages, of course, depend on the work they
get to do. The compositors usually pay
them for ‘throwing in’ the type about a
third of what they get for 'setting it up,'
or fifteen cents a thousand ems. Some of
the men do this for themselves, but most of
them write on a little slip of paper the
number of thousands they want thrown in
and the distributor they wish to do it, and
put the slip on a hook reserved for the pur-
pose. When the distributor comes to the
office, she looks over the hook, takes those
which have her name on them and proceeds
to work. Some of them, it is said, make
as high as $20 a week, working from ten in
the morning until five in the afternoon.
	“Altogether I think it’s an excellent trade
for a girl. She can always get work. It is
not so hard as a great many things. It re-
quires intelligence,application and patience.
If she evinces a desire to learn all there is
to be learned and is proud of setting a neat,
clean proof and of keeping her cases in a 
neat, workmanlike condition; if she makes
up her mind that business is business and
that if her work is badly done her employer
is perfectly justified in giving her a piece of
his mind (and she ought to be ashamed to 
take refuge behind her sex and cry about
it), she’ll get on very well in the printing
bnsiness. On the other hand, if she makes
up her mind that its only a makeshift any-
how, she’s only going to stay at it a little
while until the desirable young man comes
along and her advent into matrimony re-
lieves her of the necessity of working for a
living, she won’t be a success at printing or
anything else. As a rule when a girl goes
into a printing office to learn, she is first set
to holding copy for a while, to familiarize 
her with manuscript. Next she is taught
the letters of the case and then at once 
she is a full-fledged compositor, and after
four or five years work she knows precious
little more about the trade.
	“There are a few women proof readers in
New York. This requires perhaps, an
even greater amount of knowledge, for
while the printer is justified in blindly fol-
lowing copy and misspelling or mispunctu-
ating simply because its done that way in
the copy, the proofreader is liable to have
the house about her ears if she is not able
to make plain English out of the most
illegible writing; and to remember all the
idiosyncrasies of style of half a dozen
publishing houses or editors. Spelling
must be among her infallible qualifications.
For this she gets anywhere from $12 to $21
a week, according to her skill, the sort of
work she’s employed on and the house she
 works for.”—The Journalist.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.

      Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
      EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
     Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
                                      SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,    -    -    -    AUGUST 15, 1893.


THE PRESENT CONDITION. 
     WE were greatly in hopes that we might
have known before we went to press some-
thing concerning the Woman Suffrage Con-
gress held in Chicago during the past
week, but so far nothing definite has been
obtained.
     We were of the opinion that those able
women would pass resolutions in regard to
the financial condition of the country, that
might have some weight with Congress,
now that there is a special committee on
Suffrage and the opinions of men and wo-
men on this subject and matters pertaining
thereto are considered of some importance.
     In the present state of affairs in this
country, women are and very naturally
must be as deeply interested as men if not
even more. Women will likely be the
greatest real sufferers for more men run
away from trouble than women, and we are
happy to say that there are only a few if
any women-tramps throughout the country;
suicides are not as common among women
as men in our opinion.
     Consequently women should take an
active part in ameliorating the condition if
anything can be done, and at any rate to
try and become acquainted with the situa-
tion, and see wherein their efforts may be
available.
     If economy in the home is needful most 
women are ready at any time to make any
changes possible and reduce expenses, and
under all great trials women are morally as
brave and self-denying as men are. In the
present state of affairs there is no doubt that
women would be as patriotic and self-
sacrificing as their foremothers of the revo-
lutionary times. In fact modern women
are strong-minded and face all sorts of
difficulties and dangers, such as now beset
the country heroically. There is a great
deal too, in being cheerful and hopeful and
always speaking encouragingly in the
hours of trial financial or of any kind.
Smiles are more efficacious than tears and
vastly more becoming.
     Whatever fate awaits the people of this
favored land of America, be sure it will
all be over-ruled for good for its destiny is
upward and onward though obstacles may
have to be overcome, and dark clouds threat-
en, there will always be a silver lining
somewhere,and if one has a light heart and
clear conscience he can stand firm and stead-
fast abiding the result, which is after all in
the hands of Him who holds the nations in
the hollow of His hand.
     Above all the Latter-day Saints should


not lose faith in each other, nor the
promises of the Almighty to his people,
and should always prophecy good for Zion,
and be able to lend a helping hand to those
who have not the same abiding, living
faith to sustain them. A famine for money,
does not compare with a famine for bread
which some of the Latterday Saints have
experienced and while there is bread in the
land for the hungry there is more cause for
rejoicing than sorrow. We who were here
in an early day know that bread could not
be bought for gold, the battalion boys who
are still living can testify to that fact, and
there are many interesting, historical inci-
dents and experiences of those early days
that will bear repeating to this generation,
and would be specially applicable just now.


BOHEMIAN WOMEN.

	We have had a very pleasant visit recent-
ly with Madame Josefa Humpal Zeman,
whom we had met at the Woman’s Con-
gress in Chicago. Madame Zeman is a
charming finely educated Bohemian. She
was accompanied in her visit here by two
others of her country-women, Miss Anna
Roesel and Miss Sleona Karla Marchova of
Prague, Miss Marchova represents the
Woman's Journal of Prague Bohe-
mia. She spoke in the Woman’s Con-
gress upon “The Position of Women in
Bohemia.” These women are traveling
across the continent unattended in fact came
from their home, Eastern Europe, across
the sea to America without a male guide a
fact which has not been believed by the
people of their country, but is now success-
fully proven.
	Madame Zeman is very bright and ex-
ceptionally gifted, she was a great favorite,
at the Woman’s Congress presided as
Honorary Foreign President at one of the
sessions in the Hall of Columbus and read a
paper on “Woman as a Social Leader,”
at the session where Madame Helena
Modjeska followed with hers upon
“Organized Development of Polish Wo-
men.” This was the same evening that the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. held their meeting,
therefore we did not hear these papers and
only saw newspaper comments.
	We shall have something more to say of
Madame Zeman hereafter when we finish
our “Noted Women of the Congress.”
Madame Zeman is a correspondent for two
Bohemian Journals Chicago Amerikan and
the Racine Slavic, and her aim is to estab-
lish a Slavonic Journal to be owned and
controlled by women.


[Column 1]
﻿A PLEASANT GARDEN PARTY.
	The Social entertainment given by the
Utah Woman’s Press Club the Reaper’s
Club and the Woman Suffrage Association
at Mrs. E. C. Dye’s beautiful garden on the
afternoon of Monday August 14—was one
of the most delightful gatherings of the
season. The object the ladies had in view
was to bring together in a social way old
friends and new, for interchange of thought
and pleasant converse, meantime to listen to
music and exercises of an elevating and
instructive character.
     The grounds are undoubtedly the most
charming in the City for an entertainment
of this kind, Mrs. Dye herself is an at-
tractive woman and a gracious hostess, and
the several committees from the three clubs

[Column 2]
represented, did their preparatory work
well. The afternoon was fine and all
things propitious. Among the invited
guests present were Presidents George Q.
Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, also Angus
M. Cannon and Joseph E. Taylor of the
Presidency of the Stake, of the Bishopric
of the ward Counselor J. F. Simmons, and
Bishop H. B. Clawson and Counselor
Alonzo Hyde from other wards, also Mrs.
Willmirth East of Arizona, Mrs. W. B.
Lawler of Nevada, Mrs. Anna Ivins St.
George, Mrs. Minerva W. Snow, Manti,
Hon. Aurelius Miner and wife, Mrs.
Margaret Blaine Salisbury, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. Amelia F. Young, Mrs. P.
M. Staines, Mrs. Carlie Y. Caunon Mrs.
Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. Elizabeth Webb,
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, Mrs. Elizabeth H.
Goddard and Mrs. Fewson Smith, and others
well known in the community who were
not members of the clubs that gave the
entertainment.
    Of the eminent women associated with
these societies were Mesdames Zina D. H.
Young, M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, Emily S. Richards,M. W. Wilcox,
Phebe C. Young, E. J. Stevenson, M. Lois
Morris, E. J. MacFarlane, and P. P. Jen-
nings. Besides these the clubs represent
women Doctors, lecturers, speakers, editors,
newspaper correspondents, poets and wo-
men who are strong suffrage advocates.
     The exercises opened with organ music
by Miss Maude Pratt, followed with prayer
by President Angus M. Cannon, a very elo-
quent address upon woman suffrage and
kindred topics was given by Mrs. Julia P.
M. Farnsworth which we expect to publish
in full in our next issue of the paper.
     Music by the young ladies mandolin
club who came upon the platform in sim-
ple white dresses, their sweet faces beaming
with smiles, created a pleasing flutter of
enthusiasm and the music was thoroughly
appreciated, and the girls were persuaded
to give an encore.
     President George Q. Cannon’s address
which followed the music was exceedingly
interesting and contained much information
upon current matters, and was full of
earnest sympathy in all movements for
woman’s elevation and advancement. We
hope to be able to give the main points of
this address in the next EXPONENT. Miss
Ellis Shipp gave the “minuet” in a grace-
ful and charming way which delighted all
present. Mrs. Eva Hasbrouck recited
pathetically, “A Kansas Story, ” she has an
excellent voice and is evidently a woman of
culture. Mrs. Minnie J. Snow’s speech
was a very happy expression of thought on
woman’s life, duties and higher cultivation
and was in perfect harmony with the oc-
casion and the surroundings. Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp read an original poem in full accord
with the popular subject, woman; we shall
publish it later.
     A duet "Stay thou with me" by Mr. and
Mrs James T. Dunbar was finely rendered
and a pleasing feature of the afternoon;
young Dunbar gives promise of being as
good a singer and as great a favorite with
the public as his father, this completed the
program, as there were one or two delin-
quencies.
     Refreshments were then served and
social chat, indulged in with the ease and
freedom of out-door parties. By request
“Auld Lang Syne” was sung in which the
company joined, also “Hard times come
again no more,” the mandolin club very
graciously joining. This was followed by


sentiments from several of those present
notably Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne, President Joseph F. Smith,
President Angus M. Cannon, Mrs. E. J.
MacFarlane, Dr. R. B. Pratt and Mrs. W.
East.
	The whole affair was an enjoyable oc-
casion and the idea entertained by the
several Committees who had it in charge, to
give those who are such busy men and wo-
men a delightful afternoon was successfully
accomplished.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PICTORIAL CHART.

	Mrs. Eva Hasbrouck, of this city, has
designed and brought out a pictorial chart,
giving likenesses of the leading founders
of some of the most important missions in
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. This chart has a Key published
in pamphlet form giving some facts in
this sister’s own experience and also of the
establishment of the Church, the testimony
of the three witnesses to the Book of Mor-
mon, and a very brief sketch of the men
who opened up the Gospel in the several
countries mentioned, America, Joseph Smith,
Canada, Sidney Rigdon, England, Heber
C. Kimball, Fox Islands, Wilford Wood,
ruff, Scotland, .Orson Pratt, Ireland, Theo-
dore Curtis, Isle of Man, John Taylor.
Wales, John Needham, Society Islands,
Addison Pratt, Utah, Brigham Young,
France, William Howell, Denmark, Eras-
tus Snow, Italy, Lorenzo Snow, Ireland-
Gudmund Gudmundson, Switzerland, T,
B. H. Stenhouse, Australia, Charles W.
Wendell, Sandwich Islands, George Q.
Cannon, India, William Willis, Norway,
Hans Peter Jensen, Germany, Daniel
Garn, Sweden, Andres W. Winberg, South
Africa, William H. Walker, Gibralter,
Edward Stevenson, Holland, Paul August
Schettler, Finland, Alof A. T. Forsall,
Mexico, Moses Thatcher, Turkey, Ferdi-
nand Fritz Hintze, Samoan Islands, Joseph
H. Dean, Belgium, Charles Schneitter,
Parley P. Prat. Rufus C. Allen, South
America, Hosea Stout and other Elders to
China in 1852, Orson Pratt and W. W.
Riter Austria. New Zealand, Wm. Cook,
Russia,Roumania,Bulgaria,Egypt and other
countries have also had the Gospel car-
ried to them by the Elders at different times.
	This chart is original in arrangement
and is in the form of a tree—of Sunflowers
the faces of the Elders in the centre; on
each side the tree is a scroll with the
names and relative countries inscribed, and
the truuk of the tree has Joseph and
Hyrum Smith and three witnesses like-
nesses in it.
	Altogether the chart itself is artistic,
though the photographs are not works of
art; with this exception it could be well
recommended, and the explanation given
by Mrs. Hasbrouck in the Introductory to
the Key is quite happily written and can-
not fail to impress those who read it, there
is such a spirit of sincerity in it; she cer-
tainly deserves great credit for the pains
she has taken to perpetuate remembrance
of those whose labors have been of such 
inestimable value in spreading the Gospel.


THE SILK INDUSTRY IN UTAH.

	IT is the request of the Woman’s Silk
committee of Utah that women throughout
the Territory, who have been actively en-


gaged in sericulture send such facts and
items as they consider valuable, to the
EXPONENT office in this, city as soon as
practicable, to be embodied in a report to
the general committee in Chicago of what
has been accomplished in Utah in this en-
terprise. Reports from the several counties
that have been previously asked for by the
secretary of the committee who is now in
Chicago, must also be sent here to be com-
piled. Please remember this so that the
report may be made as complete as possible.
By order of the chairman of the committee.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE U. W. P. Club met at the EXPO-
NENT parlor Saturday evening of July 
30, the president in the chair prayer by
Lillie T. Freeze minutes of Juue meeting
read and approved. General business was
next in order. The names of Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, Miss
Ada Patterson and Miss Benson were pro-
posed as members, motion put and accepted
unanimously.
	A letter was then read from the secretary
desiring to be excused for several weeks
absence. Mrs. M. A. Freeze also sent an
excuse for unavoidable absence.
	Miss Maude Pratt favored the club with
Zempa from Arnold and a selection from
Il-Trovatore the music being executed in
fine style and charming every listener, a
hearty vote of thanks followed. Lula
Greene Richards recited an original poem
entitled the “Eloquence of Action.” The
president said, “these meetings are simply 
for literary  improvement and devoted to
the press and similar things, and not for the
discussion of religion or politics as we can
secure these things in other places. No
subject should be presented here upon
which we are likely to conflict or that
will create unpleasantness.
	An animated discussion of the Sixth
Sense was followed by refreshments. The
President suggested that our next meeting
should be an evening with the poets, each
member to either write an original poem or
select something from her favorite author,
the author to be a woman.
	Meeting adjourned for one month,
benediction by Phebe C. Young.
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, Sec. pro tem.


REORGANIZATION.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	As our Relief Society in the 9th, Ward
of this City has been reorganized, I
thought it would be well to apprise you of
the same.
	Owing to the death of our beloved Presi-
dent, Sister Sarah E. Groo, which occurred
June 22, 1892. since which time Sister
E.S. Webb has acted in that position until
June 6, 1893, when Bishop S. A. Woolley
and counselors were present at our general
meeting in order to organize us as a
society.
	Sister Mary Mair was set apart as presi-
dent with Sister Elizabeth A. Woolley as
first, and Sister Martha Barrow as second
counselor.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to Sister
Webb for the able manner in which she
had presided since the death of Sister Groo,
which was carried unanimously.
	MARTHA BARROW, Acting Sec.
9th Ward Relief Society.


R. S. REPORTS.

EAST LOA WAYNE CO.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	DEAR SISTER—Thinking a few lines
from this little quiet and out of the way
place, would be of interest to you, we pen
you these few items.
	Our Relief Society was organized Nov.
the 3rd, 1892 with Sister Helen A. Max-
field as president; owing to the scattered
condition of the people also being working
people we have not made as rapid progress
as we would wish, our time having been
taken up with the sick a great deal, what
few have their names enrolled are very
energetic and trying to do the best they can.
We sincerely wish to have your valuable 
paper the EXPONENT in our Society and a
few of the sisters have donated together of
their little mites and as we cannot send the
silver, we hope you will accept a few
stamps, and send us your paper in the
R. S. You may send it to the president,
hoping this will be accepted, we remain
your Sisters and co-laborers in the Gospel.
Officers are as follows,
		Helen Maxfield, President.
			MARIA JAKEMAN,
Counselors.	SUSAN TURNER,
		CHRISTIANA COONS, Sec.


DAVIS STAKE.

	THE Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake was held at Kaysville July, 21st,
1893.
	President Susan Grant presiding. There
were present on the stand from Salt Lake
City, Sisters M. I. Horne and E. B. Wells
also Bishop Barton and others.
    Meeting opened by singing “And are we
yet alive’’ etc. Prayer by Counselor Mary
Clark, Singing, “Redeemer of Israel our
only delight.” Minutes of the previous
meeting were read and approved.
    President Grant expressed her pleasure
at again meeting in the capacity of a con-
ference, “I know that it is a very busy time
here and we can’t expect many to come to
meeting. I feel to acknowledge the hand
of  the Lord in all  things. I think we are
blest in coming forth in this day, and there
are so many blessings that  we enjoy.”
Spoke about sustaining our home papers, “I
think it is our duty to do so especially the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. My counselors and
I have visited the different branches in the
county and were kindly received by the
bishops and the people; we enjoy and bene-
fit ourselves when we do our  duty. We
have come together to be blest and comfort-
ed and I think that we will be. I should
like very much to see the young prepare
themselves for this work. May the spirit
of the Lord  rest abundantly on each one
that may speak to us.”
	Sister M. I. Horne said she always felt
that the path of duty is the path of safety.
It does not matter who the speaker is if
they have the spirit of the Lord to dictate
them; said we should try and do away with
the spirit of faultfinding, spoke about the
World’s Fair and the grand exhibits they
had there. Said those who have not re-
ceived the gospel are far behind us in the
knowledge of good; showed the difference 
in opinions of people in regard to the
World’s Fair; referred to the temple and
what a grand privilege and blessing it is to
us to go there and work for the dead


well as the living. It is very necessary for
us to be economical these trying times.
There are a great many things to cheer
saints. We should improve every oppor-
tunity of preparing ourselves to keep up
with the times. May we live so as to have
the good will of our Heavenly Father.
	Sister Browet a very aged lady bore her
testimony then related a very interesting
dream, after which she spoke in tongues
which was interpreted by Sister Eliza
Clark.
	President Sarah B. Layton represented
Kaysville Society, and made some very in-
teresting remarks said she had been in the
Church fifty-two years and had never had
a doubt of the truth of the Gospel and
hoped that nothing would ever come along
that would prove a stumbling block to her
for she had a desire to press forward to the
end.
	Mrs. Helen Miller represented Farming-
ton.
	President Mary A Walker represented
Syracuse.
	President Grant then adjourned meeting
until afternoon. Singing “My God the
spring of all my joys."
	Benediction by Bishop Barton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—After the usual
opening exercises, Sister Andrews reported
South Hooper and Sister Page South Boun-
tiful, the remarks were all good aud en-
couraging.
	Sisters Wells and Horne spoke very
lengthily and interestingly about the
World’s Fair, said the exhibits were
beautiful almost beyond description.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers said she had en-
joyed the meeting and could testify that the
spirit of the Lord was here.
	Bishop Barton, “I will merely say that I
have been very much interested in the re-
marks of the sisters and also the description
of the World’s Fair, it shows the greatness
of God in inspiring the men to get up these
artistic designs. I can testify to the good
that the Relief Society has done, it is a
great help to the bishops,” spoke about the
times said we should act wisely and econo-
mise, the women can do a great deal in
connection with their husbands, spoke about
helping the poor, I pray the spirit of the
Lord will rest upon us as a people, etc.
	President Grant adjourned the meeting
for three months to East Bountiful. Sing-
ing “May the Grace of Christ our
Saviour,” etc. Benediction by President
Mary A. Walker. PHEBE C. SESSIONS,
								Sec


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SANPETE STAKE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the Mt.
Pleasant Meeting House, June 9, 1893.
President Mary Ann Price Hyde presiding.
Conference opened with singing, “O my
Father thou that dwellest." Prayer offered
by Brother Edward Cliff, singing “Come
let us anew our journey pursue.” Counsel-
or Sarah Peterson spoke of the many
privileges we enjoy as Latter-day Saints in
building temples and assisting in building
up the kingdom of God. Expressed her
pleasure in seeing Sister Hyde with us
again after so long an absence.
	Minutes of the last conference were then
read. The branches of the Relief Society
of Fairview, Spring City, Mt. Pleasant,
Chester, Milburn, Mayfield and Fountain
Green were represented by their presidents,
all testifying of the unity that existed
among the sisters. President M. A. P.

[Column 2]
Hyde felt grateful that her life had been
spared, that she again had the privilege of
meeting with the sisters; also of the great
power that attended the dedicatory services
of the Salt Lake Temple and the great
humility that was manifested by the breth-
ren “The people of the world are begin-
ning to investigate the religion of the Saints
of God. The work of the Lord is pro-
gressing as it never did before” Blessed
the sisters in the name of the Lord.
Brother C. H. Wheelock spoke of the
union, love and faith existing among the
sisters; prayed that the spirit of God
might rest upon those who are to lead us.
Singing “Sweet is the work my God, my
King,” benediction by Brother Johnson.
	AFTERNOON MEETING:—Counselor Sarah
Peterson presiding. Singing “Redeemer
of Israel.” Prayer offered by Bishop C. C.
N. Dorius. Singing “Sing to the great
Jehovah’s praise.” The branches of the
Relief Society of Ephraim, Gunnison
and Manti were represented as being in a
good condition.
	Sister Keller expressed her thankfulness
for the knowledge of the Gospel that she
had received and bore her testimong to its
divinity. “There is no pleasure in living a
sinful life, but great joy in doing the will of
God. Mothers, teach your children the
principles of the gospel as soon as they be-
gin to understand.”
	Sister Lund expressed her desire to do
right and prove faithful to the end. Sister
Nancy Acord said we will have to be very
humble and prayerful if we attain to the
blessings we have set our aim for. Sister
Hasler advised us to put in practice
the teachings we had received at this con-
ference. Sister Anderson bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the gospel. Let us
help one another in spiritual and temporal
things. Counselor Sarah Peterson spoke
giving good advice to the sisters in regard
to their duties.
	Counselor Minerva W. Snow spoke of
the good qualities of our President, Sister
Hyde and of the testimonies of the sisters,
referred to what Brother Woodruff said at
the dedication of the Temple, always speak
well of Zion. “If we do this we will not
speak against the authorities of the Church
or those who are placed over us. There
are only a few living at the present time,
that have had the privilege of seeing the
prophet Joseph. What a great work he
performed in organizing this church and
how merciful the Lord has been unto us in
gathering us from all parts of the earth and
that we have had the privilege of hearing
the testimony of the truth and receiving
it.” Spoke at some length of the duties
of the sisters and of the blessings the Lord
is bestowing upon us daily. President M.
A. P. Hyde who came in after the opening
of the meeting, was thankful that her
counselors had been so energetic in carry-
ing on the work in her absence.” We lose
a great deal by not living near unto the
Lord,” spoke in tongues, and the interpre.
tation was given by Counselor M. W. Snow-
President Canute Peterson spoke of the
promises that were made to the Latter-day
Saints in the Salt Lake Temple, if they
would keep the commandments of God.
"If we have a humble and contrite spirit,
and keep the laws of God, our sins will
be forgiven us.” Bishop Lund asked the
Lord to help us in the performance of our
duties. Singing “Do what is right.”
Benediction by Brother R. N. Allred.


THE WAR OF 1812.

	Wars mark epochs in the history of
nations. The war of 1812 was the strug-
gle of youth against the usurpations of a
one time parent; and as thrice armed is he
who has his quarrel just; the youth passed
victoriously in this the struggle as gold
through the refiner’s fire.
	Since England through her despotic
policy had forfeited the choicest of her
dependencies she lost no opportunity in
harrassing her commercial, as well as
political relations with the United States.
	The causes which led to this second strug-
gle with England, date back almost from
the Revolutionary War.
	As mountain streams converge in the
valley into the one river whose rising flood
rolls on majestically to the sea, so did the
many difficulties which the United States
Government, had to contend with, have
the result which forms the subject of this
paper.
	The somewhat desultory warfare on the
Mediterranean, the strained relations with
France, a war with that nation being
averted by the pacific rulings of Thomas
Jefferson; an almost fruitless endeavor to
procure an amicable understanding with
Spain and finally the insolence of the
English Government, led to the formal
declaration of war in 1812.
	Napoleon’s war with the British power
gave a great impetus to the commerce of
our nation. Owing to the neutral policy
affected by the United States her source of
revenue was greatly enlarged. Acting un-
der the principle that no country had any
right whatever to carry on commercial re-
lations with a nation with whom she was 
at war, England in 1805 seized upon no
less than twenty merchantmen.
	Referring to this, one historian: says
“Mr. Monroe had scarcely reached London
(from Spain) before the vessels had been
brought into the British channel and that
by condemnation of more than one of them
the Admiralty Count had settled the
principle.”
	Not only was the commerce attacked but
as John Quincy Adams termed it: “The
right of man-stealing from United States
Vessels.”
	British officers boarded American Mer-
chantmen and pressed into the English
service, any sailors, down to the beardless
middy, that they chose to make British
subjects.
	When Congress convened in the year
1806 the President’s message truly said,
“The aspect of our foreign relations is
much changed. ”
	Jefferson recommended such measures as
would strengthen the neutral policy, al-
ready adopted by the American Govern-
ment and also recommended his pet scheme
of defences by gunboat; “to have a compe-
tent number of gunboats,” and competent
meant considerable.
	Commercial intercourse with England
was forbidden.  That session of Congres-
appropriated $250,000 for building gun
boats and $150,000 for fortifying the ports
and harbors. Just as soon as the United
States would finish a gunboat, or repair a
port, England would checkmate her by
having a corresponding number of vessels
sailing in American Waters.
	Thus we see the two nations steadily
moving along the lines, to the point where
a rupture must come and the probable des-
truction of one of the powers.


[Column 1]
	On the 22nd, of October 1807, Mr. Mon-
roe as minister stopped further attempts at
settling difficulties, for as he stated pro-
ceeding to negotiate anew upon the basis of
a treaty already concluded and signed is
wholly inadmissible.  Monroe left England 
shortly after, leaving Mr. Pincking in
charge.
	Partaking of that insolent spirit the
British Naval officers lost no opportunities
in insulting the American flag.  The gross
insult to the stars and stripes on the
Chesapeake forcibly illustrates this.  On
the 23rd of June, 1807, the Chesapeake
about to proceed to the Mediterranean was
assaulted by the British cruiser Leopard,
carrying 50 guns, when about six or eight
miles from land off the Capes of Virginia
wholly unprepared for such unwarranted
attack and with the firing of a single gun
surrendered, the British Captain mustering
the Chesapeake's crew.
	The President issued a proclamation on
the 2nd of July, forbidding all British ves-
sels to enter American waters.
	Excitement was intense, the country's
flag insulted and as Mr. Jefferson observed:
"Never since the battle of Lexington was 
the country in such a state."
	In consequence of the critical condition
of foreign affairs, Congress was called on
October 25th.
	The existing conditions caused the is-
suance of a confidential message to Con-
gress showing the great and increasing
dangers to the Commercial Interests of the
United States.
	In accordance with the President's wishes,
within four days the famous "Embargo
Act" was passed.  This brought a torrent
of abuse upon the administration by the
opposition and the fealty of its friends.
The right and justice of such an act is not
for present discussion although some of the
warmest debates ever had in Congress were
had in 1808 when attempts were made to
have the bill repealed, which were finally
successful.
	At this time, Spencer in his history says:
"The country was kept in a constant fer-
ment by the preparations for the change in
the person of the Presidency and by the
measures which were as surely the forerun-
ners of war as negotiations, amicable inter-
vention, and arbitrations, are presages of
the conclusion of hostilities."
	In the fall of 1808 James Madison was
elected to the Presidency and George Clin-
ton to the Vice Presidency, John Q. Adams
tersely said in review of the troubles exist-
ting between the United States and Great
Britain, they were frantic; in fits of mutual
invasion and conquest.  Thus we enter
the administration of James Madison.
	The somewhat strained relations were
for a time eased,  in negotiation with Mr.
Erskin, minister of England.  It resulted
in the withdrawal by both nations of those
annoying and obnoxious features. Accord-
ingly a proclamation to that effect was is-
sued by the President.  It is needless to
say the proclamation was hailed with joy.
But the cloud was gathering and its
shadows were growing deeper, though a
ray of sunshine would now and then ap-
pear, only to be followed by a darkness
more dense.
	It was the lull before the storm.  It is
needless to describe the growth of revulsion
of feeling to the British Government.  We
need only say that when early in May,
1811, word was brought that an American
had again been impressed into the British 

[Column 2]
service by a British man of war, when still 
recalling the insult to the Chesapeake, the
fires of patriotism seemed touched by mem-
ory’s hand and kindled to that consuming
blaze which naught could quench but
blood, and that emitted through the jaws
of cruel war.
	Commodore Rogers was in command of
the President, 44 guns, and on May 16, 1811
made sail for the scene of the recent insult.
Seeing a man of war it was hailed and in
return fired upon the President.  The result
was the stranger,  His Brittanic Majesty’s
ship, "Little Bert," was severely crippled
losing 31 killed and wounded.
	This encounter caused the wildest excite-
ment since 1803.
	Up to this date it was estimated that
England had captured nine hundred
American Vessels; and had impressed in-
to the British Service 6000 mariners who
claimed to be citizens of the United States
and amidst all these proofs of ambition and
avarice she demanded, that the victims of
her usurpations and her violence should
receive her as the sole defender of the
rights and liberties of mankind.
	About this time, 1811, Indian outrages
on the frontier culminated in the famous
battle of Tippecanoe.   The troops and
General Harrison   successfully    subduing
the redskins.
	Matters were fast reaching a climax.  In
1812 the President laid before Congress
certain papers purporting to be from one
Henry, implicating the English Govern-
ment in an unsuccessful attempt to cause
the opponents of the administration to take 
up arms.
	The British denied having any knowl-
edge of the affair. It, however, caused a 
greater hatred than ever of the British.
England now announced through her
minister, Mr. Foster that she would not 
recede from the ground she had assumed.
An embargo was laid of United States Ves-
sels from ninety days.
	Then President Madison of whom it is
said, "could not be kicked into a fight,"
sent his war message to Congress, which
was referred in the house to the committee
on foreign affairs, Mr. Calhoun chairman.
They reported favorably and a bill declar-
ing war was passed 74 to 49.  The ques-
tion hung fire nearly two weeks and finally
passed (19 to 13) Vermont being the only 
New England State in favor of the war.
Accordingly on June 19th, 1812, the Presi-
dent issued the formal Proclamation of war.
The entire Federal Party opposed war
measures and the minority in Congress pre-
pared an address to that effect for their con-
stitution.
	John Quincy Adams on the day of
adjournment of Congress, writing to a
friend said: "It is with surprise that I hear
it pronounced, not only by the newspapers,
but by persons in authority, ecclesiastical
and civil, and political and military, that it
is an unjust and unnecessary war, that the
declaration of it was altogether unexpected,
etc.  How it is possible that a rational or
social or a moral creature can say the war
is unjust is to me utterly incomprehensible.
How it can be said it is unnecessary is
very mysterious.  I have thought it both
just and necessary for five or six years.
How it can be said to be unexpected is
another wonder.  I have expected it for
more than five and twenty years, and have
had reason to be thankful it has been post-
poned so long."

[Column 3]
	As a fitting termination to its labors
Congress by resolution requested the Presi-
dent to recommend to the people a day of
fasting and prayer in view of the condition
of affairs.
	Accordingly on July 9th, the President
issued his proclamation recommending the
third Thursday in August to be set apart 
as "a day of public humiliation and prayer,
to be observed by the people of the United 
States in offering up supplications to Almigh-
ty God, for the safety and welfare of the
states, his blessing on their arms, and the
speedy restoration of peace."
			(To be Continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FIGHTING THE GIPSY MOTH.
	The Massachusetts Agricultural Society
employ one hundred men in fighting the
gipsy moth. Each man has charge of a
district about a mile square. Whenever
moth clusters and nests are found, they are
collected by the wagonload and burned.
Paris green in large quantities has been used
frequently in spraying the infected trees
and grass. The work of extermination has
been going on for the last five years, and
until this year the results were far from en-
couraging. The pests had spread over two
hundred square miles in the northeastern
part of the state, causing desolation equal
to that by fire or flood, and $275,000 had
been appropriated by the state legislature
for their destruction. The moths are said
to have been introduced in this way: M.
Trouvellot came to this country from
France about twenty years ago, and settling
at Medford, studied the cultivation of the
silkworm. One day he placed half a dozen
eggs on the window ledge of his home.
During a brief absence the eggs were blown
off and scattered through the yard, so that
their recovery was impossible. From these
eggs were produced the army of moths that
have done much to depopulate a large part
of Massachusetts. Professor Lintner has
suggested the discovery and introduction of
a parasite that would feed upon and so
destroy the moths.


THERE is a very large and very knowing
class of misanthropes who rejoice in the
name of grumblers, persons who are so
sure that the world is going to ruin that
they resent every attempt to comfort them
as an insult to their sagacity, and accord-
ingly seek their chief consolation in being
inconsolable, and their chief pleasure in
being displeased.—E. P. Whipple.
	MR. SWINBURNE has written a long
poem on Grace Darling. His early life
was passed in the locality which was the
scene of her heroism, and he knew her
father.


WITH A PORTRAIT.
ACCEPT this shadow of your absent friend,
	As a peace offering, and a Christmas token
The lips are dumb—would they might speak for
	me!

	For words are jewels that are fitly spoken. 
If, in the years to come, when pleasures wain
	You think of me with but one fond regret
That thus we part, ’twill pay the debt of pain
	That fills my heart that we have ever met.
								E. J.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE SABBATH DAY.
	KEEP Holy the Sabbath-day, attend
your meetings, mingle with the Saints (not
with the outside world) stay away from
Lake resorts, however attractive they may
be made to appear; such pleasures are
seductive, false and fleeting, and will land
all who participate in them into such difficul-
ty that it will be hard to extricate themselves.
The Sabbath is a day that was "from the
first” a day devoted to God, not a part of
the Sabbath or two short hours at the
Tabernacle, and the rest at Saltair, Garfield
Syracuse or Calder’s. It is your duty to
uphold the priesthood and attend Sabbath
School and ward meetings as well as the
Tabernacle and to all calls made upon you
in a Church capacity. To break the Sab-
bath is lowering in the estimation of the
Saints and also setting a bad example. If
we are not(we should be) strictly Sab-
batarians, these hard times should teach us
that we are running far beyond our means
and the dollars spent, sacrilegiously will be
needed to pay our just debts, and to keep
the wolf from the door even before the
summer is over; then what about the long
dreary winter; have we as a people learned
a new lesson, the right to hold positions as
Saints, and yet be Sabbath breakers? Can
we see better times that we attend these
places by the thousands? Let us be wise,
reflect before it is too late, lest worse times
come upon us.
ANON.


A GLIMPSE OF UTAH LAKE.
A score of miles toward the west,
	The lake lies spread with sunset sheen,
A top the highest peak I rest,
	And count the hills that lie between
The valley and the mountain crest.

The changing hues of sunset die
	In misty twilight, dull, opaque;
The distant sea-gulls slowly fly,
	A crescent moon hangs o’er the lake, 
Low down a fading evening sky.
LAURA ST. VRAIN


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WHAT is useful is intrinsically ornamen-
tal.
	THE world forgives a great deal in a man
who is kind to his family.
	THE man who controls himself will also
control many other people.
	IF woman lost us Eden, such as she
alone can restore it.—Whittier.
	THE highest and most profitable lesson
is the true knowledge of ourselves.
	BUT one thing on earth is better than the
wife—that is the mother.—Leopold Shafer.
	THE only thing which every one can do,
and the only thing which any one needs do,
is his duty.
	BETTER follow the sternness of a truth
than the glittering delusion of a lie. Men
often follow lies because they shine—T. T.
Lynch.
	IN men of the highest character and
noblest genius there generally exists in-
satiable desire of honor, command, power,
and glory.


SINCERITY is to speak as we think, be-
lieve as we pretend, act as we profess, per-
form as we promise, and really be what we
would seem and appear to be.
	IT is better to praise a man for his vir-
tues, although they may be few and his
faults many, than to condemn him for his
faults and forget his virtues.
	A DIVINE person is the prophecy of the
mind; a friend is the hope of the heart.
Our beatitude waits for the fullfillment of
these two in one. Ages are opening this
moral force. All force is the shadow or
symbol of that.
	ADMIRATION is a very short-lived pas-
sion that immediately decays upon growing
familiar with its object, unless it be still fed
with fresh discoveries, and kept alive by a
new perpetual succession of miracles rising
to its views.—Addison.
	EVERY sensible man who has the means
and opportunity recuperates himself by
frequent pauses for recreation. He does
not defer his period of pleasure until the
closing months of a worn-out life. He is
too wise to expect impossibilities of nature
the recuperation of an utterly exhausted
body. He has had his comfort and enjoy-
ment in due season, and is grateful to
Heaven that he possesses the means to
procure all the comforts of life, which he
wisely uses to prolong his existence.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

(To the memory of Sister Annie Smith Crane.)

	Who departed this life April 22nd, 1893. Sister
Crane was born at the village of great Staughton
Huntingtonshire England on Dec. 5th 1857. Was
married to Geo. Edward Crane Oct. 13th 1881,
in Salt Lake City by President D. H. Wells. Was
the mother of five children, two girls and one boy
survive her, and also a loving husband to mourn
her loss. She was a devoted wife and mother.
	At a meeting at the Fourth Ward R. S.
Provo the following Resolutions were adopted.
	Whereas God has seen fit in his Alwise Provi-
dence to call from our midst our beloved Sister
Crane who has been a faithful teacher in the 4th,
Ward, a devoted friend to the poor and a wise
counselor in her family, and
	Whereas, it is fitting that she be held in honor-
able rememberance, therefore be it
	Resolved; by the Sisters of the Relief Society of
the 4th Ward that while we mourn not as those
who have no hope yet realize that we have lost
a faithful friend and sister who died as she had
lived in the hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Resolved; that the resolutions be spread upon
the ward record of the Relief Society, and that
copies be sent to the Woman's EXPONENT for
publication.
MARGARET M WATSON, President.
Committee.		JANET HARRISON,
				ADELAIDE MELDRUM,
				ANN WILLIAMS.


OBITUARIES.

	SISTER ELIZABETH POWELL the beloved wife
of Brother Thomas Powell, departed this life at
Marriott Weber County, April 27th, 1893. She
was a native of Carmarthen South Wales; born
September 18th, 1822, was baptized in 1854, emi-
grated to Utah 1869. She soon after joined our
Relief Society; was a very honest upright, kind
and charitable woman, a faithfnl wife and kind
mother, a good neighbor and friend. When in
her native land she made a comfortable home for
the Mormon Elders, who preached the Gospel in
that land.
	After much suffering she died in full faith in
the Gospel of Jesus Christ and in hopes of a
glorious resurrection.
	We extend our sympathy to the bereaved
family.
				ANN BICKINGTON, President.
				CATHARINE PARRY, Sec.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	[To the memory of Mrs. Elizabeth Baldwin
Harrison born Oct. 15th, 1815, and died May 20th,
1893.]
	Sister Harrison has been a faithful Latterday
Saint over forty years and a member of the
Relief Society since its organization in 1868 and a
teacher many years we feel the loss of an active
teacher, in her demise.
	Whereas: Our Heavenly Father in His divine
dispensation has seen fit to remove from our
midst by death, our beloved sister who has borne
many afflictions, trials and lonely hours, having
left her native land for the Gospel sake, leaving
all that was dear to her, an only daughter whom
she was not allowed to bring, and in her seven-
tieth year returned to seek her and in a very
providential way found her, but she would not
return with her.
	Resolved, that we the members of the Relief
Society of the First Ward Provo City do cherish
her memory and feel to emulate her example in
the performance of her duties as a teacher.
	Resolved that we sympathize with the family
in the loss of a kind and affectionate wife and
mother.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of the Relief Society and
sent to the local papers for publication.
	MARY JOHN, MARY FARRER, AGNES FARRER,
SARAH B. SAUNDERS and KATE FARRER, Com.


MRS. M. E. VAN, M. D.
HAS REMOVED her office, from Constitution
Building to her resideuce, 167 THIRD STREET.
Office hours, 2 to 4 p.m.
DAVID JAMES & CO.
TINNERS GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FOR[--]
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
[--] country promptly responded to.
DAVID JAMES, Box. 306. Salt Lake City
R.K.THOMAS
26,28,30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R.K. THOMAS
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnet cleaned and retrimmed
Feather curled, etc. Stamping dorc to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STBEET,
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACOUCHEUR.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Instructions upon these subjects two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.


Manti
Rebecca Warshiem
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
Vol. 22.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1893. NO. 4


CONTENTS: 
	History of Music in Utah—Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son. 	Letter to the Exponent—E. A. 	Passing
Thoughts—Camelia. 	University of Utah.
Address of President George Q. Cannon. Writ-
ten for the U. W. P. C., R. C., W. S. A. Recep-
tion—J. P. M. Farnsworth. Notes and News.
Literary Work of the Past—Zine S. Whitney.

	EDITORIAL. — Woman Journalism in Utah.
Editorial Notes.

	POETRY.—Women of the West—Emily H.
Woodmansee. Sphere of Woman—Ellis R.
Shipp M. D.


WOMEN OF THE WEST.
		BY EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
HEROIC women of the West,
	Intrepid as illustrious man, 
When Progress, westward forced a way,
	The gentler sex was in the van.
Stout-hearted helpers—mates and peers
	Of Braves who faced the setting sun; 
Companions of the pioneers—
	What have not Western women done?

Privations man could hardly bear,
	Which taxed his utmost fortitude,
Weak woman suffered, and withal,
	Endured the cares of motherhood.
Too often in the early days
	Comforts were scarce or, out of reach,
Yet what the wealthiest had was shared
	Fraternal offerings unto each.

Courage and faith and self denial,
	Were cultivated day by day.
Good nature conqured many a trial,
	That fell in Western women’s way.
But well they loved the mountain air, 
	The peaceful vales seemed sacred ground;
And grateful hearts expanded, where
	Souls never need be conscience-bound.

Hail! western wives! ye’ve reared a race,
	A nation might be proud to claim;
Daughters and sons of noble sires,
	And mothers worthy of the name;
Whose treasured babes from living founts
	Imbibed the love of right forsooth,
The staunch integrity that counts
	For freedom, equity and truth.

The seeds of liberty, for years,
	Round western altars have been sown;
Nourished by hopes, or fed with tears,
	Surprisingly has freedom grown.
Columbia’s glory, strength and boast
	The constitution broad and grand,
Is honored by a countless, host;
	Throughout this spacious Western land.

The East can boast of dauntless sires—
	Of patriotic mothers true,
But liberties effulgent fires,
	Are kindled in the West, anew,
The Western women wield, for good,
	A mighty and a growing power,
And with the world’s brave sisterhood,
	Will win their royal rightful dower.
Salt Lake City 1893.


HISTORY OF MUSIC IN UTAH.
		DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON.
	IN THE growth of civilization among
nations, as well as in the settlement and
opening up of new countries and territories,
music is the first outgrowth of the arts,
taking precedence in the unfolding of social
development of  every genius but that of
poetry. The peculiar form of expression
in music is also an index of national char-
acter. The pioneer settlers who traversed
the plains and crossed the Rocky Moun-
tains to make homes in the valley of the
Great Salt Lake, were certain in the early
stage of their peculiar civilization to mani-
fest the genius of music. Being so emi-
nently religious in their tone of character,
music would naturally form a very impor-
tant part of their worship, and the hosts of
Israel beguiled many an hour of their
weary march across the Continent by sing-
ing the songs of Zion.*
	The first musical organization formed in
Utah, was that of the Nauvoo Brass Band,
a company of fifteen musicians under the
leadership of Captain William Pitt, who
starting from Nauvoo with the first com-
pany of the pioneers, traveled as far as
Grand River, where [---] [--
stances compelled them to remain and earn
sufficient means to enable them to continue
their journey to the mountains.
	In 1850, most of the members of the
band having reached Salt Lake City, they
once more re-organized under Captain Pitt,
and around them cluster the first musical
reminiscences of the Mormon people. For
two years the band discoursed sweet melo-
dies on every anniversary and local cele-
bration, gave concerts, and assisted the
first dramatic association in its representa-
tions. In 1851, Dominico Ballo, an Italian,
highly endowed with the musical genius of
his race, came to Salt Lake City, having
been for a number of years previously
bandmaster at West Point. He was one
of the best clarionetists in the United
States, a fine composer and leader, and his
name is still held in reverence by many of
the old pioneers, who will tell you with a
sigh and shake of the head, that “we have
never had any music out here since Ballo
died.”
	In tone, style and execution, he was
unrivalled, and of all the excellent clarionet
soloists who have visited this city with
Gilmore’s band, and other military combi-
nations, not one has been able to produce
the tone that Ballo could draw from his
instrument. Soon after his arrival he or-
ganized Ballo’s band of twenty instru-
ments, viz, seven B flat clarionets, one E
flat played by himself, two piccolos, two
first cornet, two second cornets, one oph-
icleide, the bass horns, one tenor trombone
and drums. This combination created
great excitement on its first appearance and
continued to gain power and renown by
its skilful rendition of some of the most
difficult compositions of the day. Later
he assumed the directorship of the theatre
orchestra in the Social Hall, composing or
[Column 2]
arranging all the music used by the com-
pany for several years. In 1855, Ballo’s
Hall was erected by the band for practice
and concert purposes, and is still one of the
old landmarks of the city. In 1861 Ballo’s
health failed, having played the clarionet
for forty years, he had passed beyond the
limit usually alloted to the lives of per-
formers on wind instruments, and on Sep-
tember 8th, he was found dead in the
yard, having instantly expired from apo-
plexy or heart disease. The band he had
labored so hard to perfect, played at his
funeral, but did not long remain together
after his death. But few of his composi-
tions are extant. The best known were,
an arrangement of the duet, “Hear me
Norma,” for flute and clarionet, with
orchestra accompaniment;Governor Young’s
Grand March; Governor Young’s Quick-
step; General Wells’ Grand March, and
the orchestral parts to the old hymn, “O
my Father.”
	In 1853, David O. Calder, the pioneer
class teacher of vocal music came to Salt
Lake City and settled over Jordan, where 
he taught the first singing school in the
Territory. In 1861 he organized two
classes of two hundred members each, for
instruction in Curven tonic sol-fa method,
[---] the first introduction of the
system in America. He compiled, arranged,
and printed the class books used. In 1862
Mr. Calder organized the Deseret Musical
Association, composed of two hundred
picked singers, from the different classes
under his tuition. This society gave sev-
eral concerts in the theater and Tabernacle
with marked success, and during its exis-
tence stimulated musical culture among
the people of Utah. Mr. Calder subse-
quently established the first musical busi-
ness in Utah, and in connection with
Professor Careless, imported a large num-
ber of pianos, organs, brass and string
instruments, and a due supply of the best
music published in Europe and America.
	In 1862, Professor Charles J. Thomas,
who had for years been associated with
some of the principal theatre orchestras in
London, came to Salt Lake City and at
once took charge of the orchestra in the
new Salt Lake Theater, then just opened,
and under his leadership it maintained for
several years a high standard of excellence. 
	As conductor of the Tabernacle Choir,
Professor Thomas did some excellent work, 
and he long held a ruling musical position.
Professor John Tullidge also deserves men-
tion at this time, as fine tenor singer and
composer. His name will be remembered
as long as his anthem “How beautiful upon
the Mountains’’ delights the ears of a Salt
Lake audience.
	The man who did most for the early
musical progress of Salt Lake City, and the
establishment of the legitimate profession
is undoubtedly Professor George Careless.
Born in London, and trained with some of
the greatest instrumentalists of the day,
under the batons of such masters as Sir
Michael Costa, Sir Jules Bendict and other
famous conductors. Mr. Careless brought
to Salt Lake City in 1865, such musical


[Column 1]
genius, brilliant execution and talent for
leadership, as produced a complete revolu-
tion in musical circles, and marks an epoch
in the development of the divine art that
led to the attainment of the present high
standard of musical taste and culture in
this community.
	During the years that he held the leader-
ship of the theater orchestra, he produced a
mumber of musical plays, including Mac-
beth, The Brigand, Aladdin and Cinder-
alla—for the two latter he composed the
entire music, consisting of solos, duets,
choruses and dramatic interludes.
	During this engagement he conducted
the first opera given in Utah, the “Grand
Duchess,” by the Howson Troupe. In
1875 the great musical event in the city,
was the performance of the oratorio of the
Messiah, by the Philharmonic,Society,under
the training and conductorship of Professor
Careless, with over two hundred performers
and a full orchestra. The performance was
a great musical triumph, and was pronoun-
ced by the critics of the day, a presentation
far superior both in its vocal and orchestral
excellence to the performance of the same
oratorio in San Francisco, with Madam
Anna Bishop and other vocal celebrities in
the principal parts. In the instrumenta-
tion, the first violins, and the cornet obliga-
to of Mr. Mark Croxall, were particularly
fine, while among the vocalists Mrs. and
Miss Haydon, Messrs. Williams, Black and
Hollister, deserve particular mention. But
the palm of excellence belonged without
any question to Mrs. Careless, the wife of
Professor Careless, whose rendition of “I
know that my Redeemer liveth” was sim-
ply perfection. Her pure sweet bell-like
tones, and her exquisite delivery, intense
with feeling [illegible line do to page fold] selection to
the exalted pitch of epic song. The fact
that this oratorio could be executed in such
perfection by a local association, and call
out a high class audience fully capable of
appreciating such music proves that, as has
been often affirmed, Salt Lake City even
then, was one of the greatest musical cities
of the world,a pre-eminence that her subse-
quent history proudly maintains.
	Professor Careless also conducted the
celebrated Parepa Rosa concerts in 1868,
the Anna Bishop concert in the Tabernacle,
and the grand Wilhelm concerts in the
theater in 1880, and received from the great
virtuoso the highest praise and many marks
of personal esteem.
	In 1879, Professor Careless gave Sullivan’s
opera of “Pinafore” and later “The Mi-
kado,’’both brilliant successes,and rendered
exclusively by home talent. In 1885, he
succeeded in organizing the largest local
orchestra ever brought together in this city,
consisting of forty-five members. During
his partnership in the musical business with 
Mr. David O. Calder, the firm published
the “Salt Lake Musical Times.” the first
musical publication in the Rocky Moun-
tains, and under his leadership of fourteen
years, the musical services by the Taber-
nacle choir reached their crowning excel-
lence. To Mrs. Lavinia Careless, the lam-
ented wife of Professor George Careless,
belongs by right of her rare genius, the
highest niche of fame among our musical
stars. With a voice of phenomenal purity
and resonance, she so educated Salt Lake
City audiences to quality and sublimity of
music, that only a Patti could sing here
without being adversely compared with
her. Her rendition of oratorio solos was
simply exquisite; and no heart could listen

[Column 2]
unmoved to the glorious strains of that
angelic voice, too early called from earth to
heaven. Her sudden demise in 1885, left
a vacant place in our galaxy of stars that
has not yet been filled. Among our local
musicians who have done much to develop
musical taste both by education and talent,
may be mentioned Professor Jos. J. Daynes
who has presided at the Tabernacle organ
since 1867, with the exception of a few
months spent in New York under the
tuition of Mr. G. W. Morgan, also Orson
Pratt, an able teacher of the piano, organ,
harmony and counterpoint.
	In giving the musical history of Salt
Lake City, we must not omit reference to
the grand organ in the Tabernacle, the
building of which was commenced in 1866,
when all the materials necessary had to be
obtained from the east and hauled across
the plains in wagons. The architect and
designer of this magnificent instrument
was Mr. Joseph Ridges, who worked on it
for several years, but to Mr. Johnson
belongs the credit of bringing its present
perfect completion. It has now four mam-
als and pedal, fifty-seven stops, and two
thousand six hundred and forty-eight
pipes, supplied with wind by three large
bellows, operated by two hydraulic motors.
In its completed form, situated in one of
the most perfect acoustic buildings in the
world, it is justly an object of pride to our
city, and the admiration of tourists. Al-
most equal to it is the organ in the new
Congregational Church, and beside these
the pipe organ in St. Mark’s Cathedral, and
and in the Assembly Hall, are very fine
instruments and above the average.
	When Professor Careless resigned the
conductorship of the Philharmonic Society,
Professor Radcliffe came to Salt Lake City
and took the vacant position, and a year
later gave the Creation in the theatre with
marked success. Professor Radcliffe is a
great organist, and his recitals given on the
Tabernacle organ prove his complete mas-
tership of that noble instrument.
	Among our noted violin solists, Mr.
Willard Weihe stands in the front rank. A
protegee of Ole Bull, for whom he played
at the early age of ten years, he had by
force of his genius and perseverance worked
himself up to a very high position, and
under the tuition of the celebrated Vieux-
temps, developed a marvelous technique
that has been rarely equaled except by a
virtuoso. A long list of performers on
piano, organ, violin and other instrnments
might be given, which together with a
number of vocalists of unusual excellence,
justify the claim that we are in Salt Lake
especially a music loving and appreciative
people, and that no Territory, and but few
States in our land can equal Utah in the
progress made in the divine art. Especially
is this the truth with regard to choral
music. Salt Lake leads with her Choral
Society three hundred in number; the Tab-
ernacle Choir four hundred and fifty in
number—the largest probably in America,
heads the list of thirty choirs belonging to
[-]he various churches in the city, average
not less than twenty voices each, making a
grand total of six hundred choristers. Add
to these the two hundred and fifty choirs in
the various towns and settlements of the
Territory, and it shows at least five thous-
and choristers taking part in divine worship
every Sunday, and if the Sunday School
children, who all take part in the song
worship of the day be counted, they will
swell the number to thirty-five thousand.

[Column 3]
	To Professor Evan Stephens, a practical
musician and composer of considerable
native genius as well as professional study
and training is due the success of the
general movement in class teaching in the
Sunday Schools of the Territory possessed
of rare personal magnetism, a born musical
leader, with perfect choral control, he
sways the hundreds of children on the stage
with a few simple movements of his baton,
maintaining a perfect tempo with the most
exquisite variation of forte and piano. The
National Concert given in the Tabernacle
on the 22nd, Feb. 1893 was one of his
most unique efforts, and demonstrated the
possibility of a high standard of musical
training for children, thus educating a
generation of musicians who will in future
years maintain Utah’s Musical supremacy
in the Rocky Mountains.
	In the public schools, the leading day
schools, academies and colleges as well as
the University of Utah, music forms a part
of the regular curriculum of study, and
scholars of all ages enjoy in Salt Lake City
musical advantages equal to those afforded
in Boston, Chicago, or Cincinnati, the only
difference being in the number of lessons
given and not in the quality.
	There are few homes in Utah without a
piano, or organ, and brass bands are num-
erous throughout the territory, while guitar
and mandolin clubs delight the young
people and male glee clubs and quartetts
are being organized extensively. Proud
as we my justly be of our past musical
achievements and present standing, our
future possibilities are far more glorious and
with perseverance in well doing and a more
united effort among musicians and lovers of
music, it is possible for Utah to become
world famed for her unequaled musical
excellence and progress.


26	WOMANS EXPONENT﻿


LETTER TO THE EXPONENT.
Editor Exponent.
	THE editorial in the last EXPONENT set
me to thinking quite seriously. It is cer-
tainly true that the little cost of the paper
cannot compare with its value to the wo-
men of Utah. No one can ever claim to
have read in the EXPONENT, words of ex-
pressions other than pure, elevating and
sensible. True it contains few of those
worthless fashion hints and house-keeping
and rearing children recipes and remedies;
feeling a mother’s and a wife’s own
instincts and circumstances can better guide
her in those duties, but it contains pages of
useful information pertaining to woman’s
work both at home and abroad. Its little
pages contain some of the sweetest songs
our home poets have sung, and some of the
brightest thoughts our authors have penned,
beside rare selections and articles and stories
of merit and interest. Nor do I extol the lit-
tle semi-monthly visitor too highly when I
say it is invaluable to the women of Utah,
and I wonder do they half realize what an
educator the EXPONENT has been to them
these many years. Perhaps we appreciate
our papers and books like our friends. The
more when we have lost them, but I hope
not, and I hope for the sake of the women
of Utah we will not have to lose our friend
the EXPONENT, for it is a bright little mes-
senger to our homes bringing us newsy and
pleasant thoughts, and binding us closer
and friendlier in our social industrial and
charitable work.
E. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT    27﻿


SPHERE OF WOMAN.
WOMAN'S SPHERE! I hesitate for I can scarcely
	hope
That I may courage find, with this great theme to
	cope,
Yet who more sure to comprehend her hope than
	woman,
And with true sympathy her rugged path illumine

Yes ’tis the right of woman to let her light shine
	forth,
So all may see its beauty, and emulate her worth,
Not by aggressive words, and clamoring for fame
But by her noble actions she wins without ac-
	claim.

Woman with her brother-man a heritage hath
	gained,
The earth, the sea and elements contained
Are theirs, to use for good,all for a worthy end;
With many other gifts our Father’s mercies send.

So she should wiser grow, and seek to cultivate
The powers of her mind,and ev’ry heavenly trait,
Intelligence and truth should fill the pliant mold;
Extending to its utmost; Possibilities untold!

’Tis her right to raise her voice a just cause to de-
	fend;
Let kindness, love and mercy in all her actions
	blend,
To aid the weak, soothe the sick and cheer the
	sadden’d heart,
And pure refining virtues to every soul impart.

Again it is her right to aid in forming laws
By which her sex is judged, in the one great com-
	mon cause;
To cast her vote for honest men in national affairs
Thus purifying politics, while she the burden
	shares.

But of all God-given rights that womankind pos-
	sesses
Is that of wife and mother! Think how many
	homes she blesses
With her tender love. ’Tis her lot to live for
	others!
Divine unselfishness! Ah! these noble wives and
	mothers.

Just one more right I’d mention on this auspicious
	day,
The right to love each other, and kindly tributes
	pay.
Engage in social converse, enjoy a sweet com-
	munion,
Let heart come close to heart, and angels join
	our union.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Salt Lake City Aug. 14, 1893.


PASSING THOUGHTS.
	IT is the hazy ripe summertime. The
poets rhapsodize over the beautiful spring-
time and the months of violets, daisies and
roses, and people say let us prepare for the
dreadful summer by seeking the mountains,
or cooler climates,but can any one find fault
with this delightful ripe August.  The
morning and evening air is cool almost to
chilliness and the rich sunshine of the day
but ripens the fruits and the grains for our
gleaning.  A walk by the meadows, where
the air is fragrant with the new mown hay
where the silken tassels of the corn wave
in the summer breeze, and the harvester
reaps the golden grain where the music of
the birds, the brooks and the gentle winds
greets one on every side, the soul is filled
with sublimest thoughts and beautiful
nature draws one near to nature’s God.
One feels as full of thanks and praise to the
heavenly Father as the field is full of grain
and one wonders with such abundance on
every side how man can e’er complain.
[column 2]
	All things are fitted to their time and place
the sorrows of our life but make that life
the rich[-] even as the deep warm summer
enriches the earth.  How delightful it
sometimes is to throw aside the cares and
worries of the day and take a lonely ram-
ble.  I wonder not at the life of the natural-
ist, I only wonder that all mankind do not
take more to such a life.  It would make
us better I am sure for at every step so
much of wonder and of interest beset us.
The world is so busy or at least the people
of the world and they all are rustling and
jostling against each other in a mad rush
for what? wealth, money; and yet we slight
the very things in life we give our money
for.  It has been possible to live where
money was seldom or never seen and to live
comfortably and well.  God has provided
this beautiful earth with a rich abundance
of everything for our requirements, and
man’s thought and ingenuity have taught
us how to use them.  Are we grateful
enough for the many things we have.  If
so why are we always longing and seeking
for more.  I seldom or never sit at table
but before anything is partaken of grace is
pronounced on the food, and I wonder if
those who sit around the board ever think
during that grace of its sacredness. 
	We are so early taught about the thought
we must exercise when partaking of the
sacrament, and how much it means to us,
but are we so often, or so carefully taught
to seriously consider grace before eating.
I fear not and in many homes it is but a
form quickly and thoughtlessly gone
through with, that the eating may begin.
Still in that divinest of all prayers we are
taught to ask the Lord for our daily bread
and feeling through that, that he is the
Giver we ought never to partake of it with
out offering Him our thanks and praise,
not in a meaningless way but with our
whole hearts.
	An eastern paper devotes two whole
columns telling about giving away an old
baby carriage to a family because the little
girl had to lend it so much, I know a lady
who did the very same thing not long ago
and never thought any more about it either;
how easy it is to become a heroine now if
she had only worked that through a news-
paper, she might have had a column written
about her and perhaps one of those beauti-
ful cuts to accompany it, but true charity
does not seek public approbation, it comes
from the heart and is as spontaneous and
simple as a baby’s smile without a thought
of what may follow.  How many thousand
deeds of kindness and love could one per-
form.  Daily opportunities occur for us
all and it makes one better when the day is
spent to feel some one has been made the
happier by our kindness, be it in words or
deeds.  Could a record be kept of the lit-
tle kindnesses and courtesies most mothers
and house wives preform in a day I think 
these estimable persons would be quite as-
tonished, and perhaps it is better that they
do not know for a knowledge of one’s
charity is likely to curb it or at least to
cause the hitherto unselfish nature some
conceit.  How beautiful to live as Jesus
taught.  Let not the left hand know
what the right hand giveth.	CAMELIA.


MRS. WILLIAM CLAFLIN. of Boston,
whose guest the poet Whittier usually was
when he was in town, has prepared an at-
tractive volume of personal reminiscences
of him. Miss Edna D. Proctor, has con-
tributed a fine poem.


UNIVERSITY OF UTAH.
	THE University of Utah is now in a
most excellent condition. It has been a
continued effort on the part of the Regents
to put the University on equal standing
with the majority of other like institutions
in the United States and they have now
succeeded in doing so.
	Important additions to its forces have
been made for the coming school year. Dr.
James E. Talmage, a graduate of Lehi
University, and a well known educator of
our Territory, has been appointed Professor
of Metallurgy and Biology. Joseph F.
Merrill, a graduate of Ann Arbor and a
student in Chemistry at Cornell University
whose chemical laboratories are the finest in
the United States, is to do part of the work
in Chemistry as Assistant Professor. Byron
Cumming, a graduate of the Oswego Nor-
mal school and also of Rutger’s College
and who has been a successful educator for
a number of years, is to assist in Latin and
English. William D. Neal, who has been
doing post-graduate work at Cornell
University, is to assist in Geology and -
Mineralogy. Joseph P. White, who has
been doing post-graduate work at Cornell
University in Physics and Mathematics will
give some of his time in doing work for the
mathematical department besides carrying
on the work he has heretofore done in
Physics.
	All of the departments will be greatly
strengthened by these accessions, as each
man named has been selected on account of
his unusual fitness for the position to which
he has been appointed.
	The faculty of the University has thus
been increased and its standard has been
raised to a position that must command the
respect of all intelligent persons. No
degree in any course is given except for
four years of actual work. It is the pur-
pose of the University authorities to exert
an influence toward elevating the standard 
of work done in our Territory, for which
degrees may be issued and it is sincerely
hoped that all educators will cooperate in
promoting an object of such great impor-
tance.
	The University will open Sept. 18th.
During the first two or three days, com-
mencing at 9 a. m. entrance examinations
will take place. The prospects are that the
University will be crowded with earnest,
industrious students from all parts of the
Territory.


MISSCELLANEOUS.

	THE way to do a great thing is never to.
neglect any little thing.
	TEMPERANCE is a tree that has content-
ment for its root and peace for its fruit.
	WE attract hearts by the qualities we
display; we retain them by the qualities
we possess.—Suard.
	PERFECT valor consists in doing without
witnesses all we should be capable of doing
before the whole world.—Rochefoucauld.
	POETRY is the breath and finer spirit of
all knowledge; it is the impassioned ex-
pression which is the countenance of all
science.—Wordsworth.
	A FATHER inquires whether his boy
can construe Homer, or understand Horace,
but how seldom does he ask, or examine or
think whether he can restrain his passions, 
whether he is grateful, generous, humane,
compassionate, just,and benevolent.—Lady
Hervey.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs.  City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50 per month, $3.00.  A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.

	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I.  Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 1, 1893.


WOMAN JOURNALISM IN UTAH.

	Almost every phase of women in journal-
ism was presented in the Press Congress
held in May in Chicago, except that of wo-
men in the Rocky Mountain region, the
barren desert of the great inter-mountain
country lying near the American Dead
Sea.
	The Pilgrim women who journeyed
across the trackless waste towards the set-
ting sun, and who were filled with the
enthusiasm born of religious themes and
theories, were also filled with the inspira-
tional and prophetic influences that burst
forth spontaneously in song and verse, not
beautiful perhaps in diction, and not always
correct in rhythm, but strong and forcible
in the expression of the truth.  These
brave mothers, these heroic daughters,
born and nurtured in the cultivated East,
bearing the heavy burdens of pioneer life
in the wilderness (so to speak) had still in
their souls the inspiration of the hour, and
the consciousness of the possibilities wait-
ing for the keynote of woman's upward and
onward march.  Besides the everyday life
in camp and pilgrimage to a promised land,
was the ever present witness of future
destiny that was reserved for the faithful.
	These were a stimulus to poetry and to
refinement, and all along the toilsome
journey, the songs of birds, the glorious
sunsets, the bluest of blue canopies at
night, when the stars were shining, and
the moon sailing on high, these to the
young, ardent and impassioned disciples of
an abiding faith (and indeed to some of
maturer years,) were fountains that bub-
bled with a charming effervescence, that set
their souls to the music of nature in its 
broadest, highest and most exalted sense.
	After reaching the valley of the Great
Salt Lake the first effusions that appeared
in print were the songs of Eliza R. Snow
and of Sarah E. Carmichael,and these were
followed by others from year to year, who
contributed both prose and verse to the
newspapers early established by the found-
ers of the new Territory.  Many names
dear to the hearts of the people might be
mentioned in this connection; some have
passed away, others still live and are ad-
ding to the current literature of the West.
Foremost of those we miss from our roll of
honor, besides our poet-laureate, Eliza R.
Snow, are Hannah T. King and Mary J.
Tanner.  Those who still remain of the
number are making a record that will go
down to posterity in the history of the
Rocky Mountain country.
	
[Column 2]
	The Deseret News established in 1850,
was the first opening for effusions of
this sort and has always given encourage-
ment to women writers of merit.  After-
wards the Salt Lake Herald whose
columns were free to women, who had any-
thing to offer worthy of notice, somewhat
later still "The Utah Magazine," which
only survived a short time, and in 1866 the
Juvenile Instructor both these magazines
were open to women contributors.
	But the time came when women were
not satisfied to be heard only through these
papers and established one of their own,
wherein they could express themselves on
all subjects and represent their particular
views and organizations more definitely and
more effectively.
	The ballot had been given to the women
of Utah in February 1870, and from that
time more particularly, women took a
greater interest in public matters, and were
awakened to the responsibility of the
franchise through its practical application
in the affairs of public life.  A growing
sentiment prevailed among both men and 
women in favor of woman journalism and
on the first day of June 1872, the first num-
ber of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was issued.
The editor was Miss Louisa L. Greene,
known then as Lula through her poems, a
young woman who had already become a
favorite with the public through her writ-
ings,and to the editor of the Salt Lake Her-
ald the late Edward L. Sloan, who strongly
recommended her as suitable for the
position.  It was a new field,one altogether
untried in the West, except by Mrs.
Duniway who had just previously started
the New North West in Portland, Oregon.
But of this Miss Greene was not aware un-
til afterwards, nor that Dora Darmoore be-
gan about the same time the publication of
"The Golden Dawn" in San Francisco.
These were the only papers edited and pub-
lished entirely by women west of the Mis-
sissippi river at that time, as a matter of
fact. The EXPONENT the very first except
the New North West.  Women type-set-
ters were employed to do the work and the
girls make up the paper as well, so that all
our work is done by women except the
press work.
	The editorial in the first number of the
paper, sets forth in a few words that al-
though the women of Utah are in posses-
sion of the ballot there is ample work to do,
"truth to be dissemminated,errors to be com-
batted, intelligence to be communicated, the
right to be vindicated and misrepresenta-
tions to be corrected."  Indeed it is quite
an able article, and is worthy the subjects
which through all these years the EX-
PONENT has advocated and labored to
maintain.  In 1873, about a year after the
EXPONENT was issued, Miss Greene was
married to L. W. Richards, and assumed
the duties of house-keeping in addition to
editorial work and March 1st, 1873, Miss
Cornelia H. Horne was made business
manager of the EXPONENT.  Later on in
October 1874, Mrs. Richard’s family duties
increased and several ladies who had been
contributors volunteered assistance in the
editorial work.  The present editor being
one of that number. In May 1875 the writer
assumed regular duty in the office which has
been continued ever since.  In November
1876 Miss Horne resigned as business
manager for a higher position in a home of
her own, and in July 1877, Mrs. Richards
vacated the editorial chair in favor of the
present incumbent.  It is quite impos-

[Column 3]
sible to estimate the good accomplished by
this one little paper, and what has been
done clearly demonstrates the value of wo-
man's work in journalism to those
acquainted with the facts.
	Other periodicals besides those mentioned
that have since given opportunities for wo-
men writers, are The Amateur in Ogden,
The Contributor established October 1879,
Tullidge's Magazine, monthly the finest
Magazine in the West which is now dis-
continued, The Utah Magazine first known
as Parry's Magazine, and in October 1889,
The Young Woman's Journal, a monthly
magazine, was started in the interest of  the
young women of the Territory, the editor
is Mrs. Susa Young Gates.
	These papers as also some others of less
importance give ample opportunity for wo-
men to express their views and opinions on
all subjects, and women are employed
regularly on nearly all the papers and mag-
azines published in Utah.
	To those unacquainted with the history
of Utah, it may seem surprising to tell
them that women writers here compare
favorably with their sisters in the East, it
is however perfectly true; some of them
have been born and educated there, and in
England and other lands, and have also the
broad free spirit of the West, that seems
spontaneous in this region, and the children
of these parents,born here in this mountain-
ous country possess in a high degree the
temperament and tendencies that are the
natural result of the climate and scenery
among which they have been born and
nurtured.  Great things in the way of
literature are expected from the native born
children of the inter-mountain country.
Even now we have many young women
whose journalistic work is well worth com-
mending, and of whose career we are justly
proud.
	Of women regularly employed in news-
paper offices there are not very many be-
cause the field for office work is not so
large, but there are some,and as regular con-
tributors there are many.  Among our 
best regular prose writers, of the present
Augusta Joyce Crocheron, who has written
essays, stories and various articles and
biographical sketches is particularly hap-
py in dealing with common place mat-
ters, as well as those that require depth of
thought, and beauty of expression.  She
is the author of several books.  We must
mention, Lu Dalton, who is capable of
handling almost any subject in a masterly
manner;  Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh an
English woman who has been accustomed
to wield the pen for many years, having
traveled extensively in foreign countries
is therefore qualified to write interestingly
on oriental themes, and is able to keep up
too with current topics of the day and deal
with them understandingly.  Ruby La-
mont a Utah girl of Scandinavian paren-
tage is somwhat classical in style, but
writes remarkably well on local themes also.
Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson educated in Cam-
bridge, England is a remarkably gifted
writer, and whatever subject she grasps
handles it like a master workman.  She is
more concise than most women, her senten-
ces are clear cut and forcible, yet altogether
smooth, harmonious and skillfully polished.
	Helen Mar Whitney is one of the most
forcible writers, her articles are always ele-
vating in tone and her type is strictly spirit-
ual.  Lula Greene Richards previously
mentioned is also decidedly religiously
in all her journalistic work, her writings


[Columm 1]
are pure in sentiment and she is a great
favorite in her articles for children. Susa
Y. Gates is perhaps the most prolific writer
among the journalists in Utah,
including a great variety of subjects besides
her own magazine work, stories long and
short, political, religious and household
matters.  Among the younger writers born
and educated here who are doing good
work and give promise of greater excellence
in the future, is Annie Wells Cannon
(Camelia) editorial contributor to this paper
and who has written occasionally ever since
she was very young, and has successfully
managed tile editorial work in our absence
a great many times.  Mrs. Cannon’s letters
from Germany and Switzerland in 1883 and
84 were charming in style and realistic in
description.  Another of the younger
journalists who is fast making herself wide-
ly and very favorably known, also Utah
born and educated, is Josephine Spencer,
she writes upon a variety of subjects, many
of them descriptive in which she certainly
excels. She also takes up national themes,
and is very good at stories long and short,
has secured several prizes in this line; has
been a bright and entertaining correspond-
ent for our local papers at the World’s Fair.
	Lillie T. Freeze also Utah born
writes in something of the tender, pathetic
style, religious in tone and reaching out to-
wards the sublime, she seldom deals with
common place subjects.  Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
who came here when a child is a poetical
prose writer, idealistic and sympathetic in
style, and happy in delineation.   A
thorough literary student yet devoted
practically to her profession.  Julia P. M.
Farnsworth born in Utah, has done con-
siderable newspaper work in Beaver,
previous to coming to Salt Lake City where
she now resides.  She deals with political
subjects particularly well, is thoroughly
patriotic in sentiment and emphatic in style,
also motherly in her nature, and writes
happily on all home themes.  Mary A.
Freeze is a very good descriptive writer and
interesting on many other subjects, especial-
ly lofty and religious.  Julia A. McDonald
Utah born and reared has much native
talent, and is a versatile and uncommonly
genial writer, is one of the young women
from whom much is expected in the future.
	Flora L. Shipp is exceptionally gifted as an
imaginative writer, had opportunities been
favorable would ere this have been known
in the West as a novelist, as it is she has
written much, her articles having been pub-
lished mostly in eastern papers and journals.
Sarah E. Russell is one among many of our
young women who have contributed largely
to our home magazines and papers, and is
very pleasing and sweet-toned in sentiment
and style.  Mary Ellen Kimball has con-
siderable merit as a writer upon religious
topics, though she is also decidedly patriotic
in tone.  Willmirth East is one of the
foremost in patriotic themes, and always
manages to put a great deal of the fire of
’76 in her political articles.  Mary A. House
is a philosophical and logical writer, and
deals heavy blows right and left with her
pen when handling subjects that rouse her
indignation.
	Of women who have been regularly em-
ployed on daily papers, as society reporters
there are Eleanor Campbell nee Young,
M.Chaille Benson, Ada Patterson and Dell
Young Harrison.  These young women are
ingenious and attractive in their line of
work, which is one of the most difficult in
the profession.

[Column 2]
	Cornelia A. Paddock is a very able
and accomplished writer and very
well known in the East as efficient in
dealing with charity and social purity sub-
jects, and is the author of several books.
Mary Grant Major now of Utah formerly
of Michigan has been in newspaper and
journalistic work for a number of years,and
polishes accurately her well rounded
sentences.  Jennie D. Froiseth had attained
to some distinction as a writer in the East,
and after coming to Utah edited a woman’s
paper for two or three years the Anti-
Polygamy Standard, she has had great ad-
vantages and a superior education, deals
much with political subjects, is a writer of
fiction and has published several books.
	There are many others too numerous to
mention here, but we must not fail to bring
into this galaxy one or two more. Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, writes not only scientific
articles, but is also an efficient and compre-
hensive writer upon all practical subjects,
and possesses excellence of taste in style,
and correctness of diction.
	Dr. M. Hughes Cannon B. S., one of
Utah’s young women, is a gifted writer,
not only on subjects pertaining to her pro-
fession, but is happy in description of places
and people, and brilliant in dealing with
lofty themes.
	Ellen Lee Jakeman, who has worked at
type-setting, editing, publishing, and writ-
ing on all subjects for country papers, is a
correspondent for papers and magazines in
Salt Lake City, and has written for Eastern
and Western papers as well, of the style we
can only say she is a very strong and able
writer on almost any subject and might
often be mistaken for a man in the character
of her work.
	Mattie H. Tingey, Gladys Woodmansee,
Alice E. Horne, Lizzie H. Shipp, Emma
Ellerbeck, Emily Clowes, Isabel Sears,
Lucy A. Clark, Sophy Valentine, Aretta
Young, Vina H. Tingey, Minnie J. Snow,
Mary A. Farnsworth, Zine S. Whitney,
represent a large number of young women
from whom much is expected in the near
future, (though some of them write poetry)
who deal with general and practical sub-
jects. The outlook in literary work among
women is encouraging and in the rapid
growth and increase of business and pop-
ulation in the West it may be safely predicted
that the West will yet stand equal if it does
not excel the East in progress and advance-
ment, towards the higher education and
development of mankind.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	OUR readers will please excuse the non-
continuance of the serial “In Rural
England” as this paper only contains
articles complete in one number and special-
ly designed for free distribution at the
World’s Fair.

	THE ladies of the American Fork W. S.
A., Mrs.Hannah S. Lapish, President, very
generously appropriated money to publish
a thousand extra copies of the EXPONENT,
September first, to be given away on Utah
Day at the World’s Fair in Chicago. They
have our most sincere thanks for this
liberal donation. The same Association
have in the past been very active in raising
money for many noble purposes. May they
continue to increase in good works and also
in numbers. Such energy deserves com- 
mendation.


ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT GEORGE
			Q. CANNON.

	[At The Lawn Fete August 14.]
	THE emancipation of woman has been
almost invariably marked by the advance in
civilization. Politically and professionally
the sex is still deprived of some rights and
privileges possessed by man, but there is no
one now who holds that there is in her either
moral or even intellectual inferiority. So 
far as the law has had to do with the im-
provement in the condition of women, it
like civilization itself, has been gradual in
its operation. But this tendency has been
uniformly in one direction. Women’s
disabilities have one after another been re-
moved until at the present time in most
civilized countries the legal position of wo-
man differs but little from that of man, so
far as regards personal and property rights.
	From a very early time the dependent
position of women is a matter of history.
Sacred and profane records point out to us
that she had but very few of the rights to 
which the other sex was considered en-
titled. In the Mosaic law even, divorce
was a privilege of the husband only; and
daughters inherited only in the absence of
sons. In far eastern countries the sub-
jection of women to their husbands is and
has been always a cardinal principle. In-
heritance of property was traced through
males to the exclusion of the females, and it
is an interesting fact that this, probably as
much as any other influence, led to the
suttee, or burning of the widow upon the
funeral pile of her husband, so that her
life estate in the property might be prompt-
ly extinguished. The dependence of wo-
men under the Roman law was equally
complete; if married, her person and
property passed absolutely into the hands
of her husband; if unmarried, she was un-
der the perpetual tutelage of her father and
her kinsmen. No civil or public office
could she exercise. She could not even
continue a family, for the well known Ro-
man phrase declared that she was the
beginning and the end of her family. It is
true she had certain privileges, but these
were given more from pity for her bodily
weakness and presumed mental incapacity
than for any worthier reason. Paul’s
seeming belief in the inferiority of the sex
was doubtless due to his education in the
Roman law.
	The influence of Christianity in the
securing of rights to which woman, like
every other human being, is entitled, de-
serves full recognition. It made many al-
terations, though not always improvements,
in the laws. Its influence was exercised in
favor of the removal of woman’s disabilities,
and if it did not give her political power, it
at least supported the political power of
those who were her friends.
	Among the barbarous nations of northern
Europe the work of her amelioration was
slower; an early Scandinavian law in
the provision for the “Morning Gift” was
probably the parent to the modern “settled
property," but in some of the old Saxon laws
in England a woman might be burned alive
for a petty theft, especially if she were a
slave, which was no uncommon condition.
Wife-purchase was too common a practice to
need allusion here. She might be led on a
halter to the market-place by her husband
and there exposed and transferred to the
highest purchaser. In a few cases, she
might transmit rights which she herself
could not enjoy. Hence the curious


[Column 1]
anomaly of the French law that a claim
through a woman may be maintained, while
the claim of a woman would be rejected.
The old custom of chivalry, by which a
knight or champion appeared in her defence, 
and she was barred from further manner of
redress, possibly explains the rejection of
her evidence as a witness and her rights to
both person and property.
	My ancestors lived on the Isle of Man, a
small island about as long as our valley of
Salt Lake from the Hot Springs to the
point of the mountain, but not near so wide.
It is a choice and beautiful spot of earth
where freedom has been cherished and very
carefully guarded from the earliest ages.
It has a parliament of its own called the
House of Keys. This legislative body had
an existence long before the British House
of Commons; in fact it is the oldest repre-
sentative body in Europe. Small as that
island is, its inhabitants are proud of
their representative government and of
the antiquity of their House of Keys.
	Democratic equality has prevailed to a
greater extent on that island than any other
part of the British dominions. 
	My reason for alluding to this little spot
is that it is the only part of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
where today parliamentary franchise is ac-
corded to woman, though in all parts of the
British Empire under modem enactments
she may fill high positions in the state.
	Most of the professions and trades have,
during the century, been open to woman in
nearly all European countries; rights of
property have been fixed by generous enact-
ment, and under the operations of the crimi-
nal law she has full protection equal with
her husband, her brother, or her son. The
old Scottish law, if a woman committed a
trespass without her husband’s knowledge,
she might be chastised by him like a child,
has given way to the law establishing the
right of married women to vote at school
elections, and giving them admission to the
universities and to take special courses and
degrees. In our own country the laws are
still more generous; a woman married to a
citizen is deemed a citizen herself; the right
of suffrage in some form or other has been
given her in twenty-eight of the states and
territories. In our own Territory she
voted on all questions until disfranchised
through the Edmunds law. It is of re-
cord that a select committee of the United
States Senate has on two occasions reported
in favor of amending the Constitution so as
to forbid the states making sex the
cause of disfranchisement. In most of our
institutions of learning women are admitted
to equal privileges with the men, and it
need scarcely be said, they have carried off
in all competitions a full share of the honors.
The government itself makes no discrimi-
nation against them in the distribution of
its offices. The proportion of post-mis-
tresses is very large, and of women em-
ployed in the departments at Washington,
it can fall but little short of fifty per cent.
This latter advancement, if such it may be
deemed, dates only from the year 1861,
when in September, Secretary Chase of the
treasury appointed the first lady clerk.
During the ensuing three years there were
twelve women appointed to offices in the
treasury department, and at last reports ten
of these were still occupying their places.
During more than thirty years the number
of women has increased to many thousands,
and in all the duties imposed upon them
they have shown adequate capacity, and in

[Column 2]
skill and faithfulness have shown them-
selves to be in no degree inferior to the
men.
	The Woman’s Congress, or rather
series of congresses, held in Chicago re-
cently, is undoubtedly the most notable
gathering of its kind in all history; every
civilized land and some that are not civilized
were represented at these conventions, and
the judgment of those who witnessed the
proceedings agree substantially in this: that
no gathering of men so cosmopolitan and
so numerous ever displayed greater ability
and gave more complete evidence of brain
power, and energy, and administrative
ability on the part of the members, than
this congress of women.
	Every man, be he husband, father,
brother or son must rejoice in the enlarged
liberty and increased privileges which wo- 
men now possess. There was no act pass-
ed by our Legislative Assembly while I was
a member of that body in which I took
greater interest than the enactment which
gave women the right to hold property in
their own name.  The sex should be re-
lieved from every disability, and every ad-
vantage should be accorded to woman
which will qualify her to stand side by side
with man. Having this feeling, on a recent
visit to the World’s Fair at Chicago I took
great interest in every improvement that
would lighten woman’s labor and relieve
her from drudgery. How often have we
seen a young married couple start out side
by side in life together, the husband and
the wife equal in education and ability, one
as capable of progress as the other; but
after the lapse of a few years what a change
frequently takes place! If their circum-
stances are moderate, and the wife has had
to devote herself to the duties of her house-
hold without leisure to cultivate herself, an
inequality appears. The wife has not pro-
gressed in some directions as the hus-
band has. If a man of intelligence, he has
availed himself of the advantage which his
sex possesses, and to a certain extent, he
is a man of intelligence through the ad-
vantages which has left his wife behind.
Her lagging behind has not been because
of any inferiority on her part, but because
the nature of her employment has kept her
confined to a narrow circle, and with but
limited contact with others, and she has
neither had time nor opportunities to im-
prove as rapidly as her husband.  Every
reflecting father who has daughters and
who desires their happiness and their growth
in everything that is elevating, must take
interest in those improvements and inven-
tions which will lighten woman’s toil and
give her more leisure to cultivate the
abilities which she possesses. Co-operative
societies for cooking and laundry work, if
properly organized and maintained, would
do much for the sex in lightening house-
hold labors and furnishing this healthful
and proper leisure.
	These subjects should receive the at-
tention of the men, but woman herself can
do much towards bringing about changes
which will greatly improve her condition and
secure to her advantages that at the present
time are not generally within her reach.
The energy which the sex has displayed
in many directions, the determination
which has been evinced to remove from
woman’s pathway all obstacles which im-
pede her progress, will doubtless be turned
in the directions which I speak of and with
the happiest results.
	Woman’s day is dawning. The

[Column 3]
twentieth century, say disinterested observ-
ers, will be the woman’s century. In-
deed, some who in a joke may be uttering a
solemn truth, aver that the coming man will
be a woman.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WRITTEN FOR THE U. W. P. C. R.
		C. W. S. A. RECEPTION.

	ALTHOUGH I have been a resident of
this beautiful city for the past eleven
months, I am at present but slightly
acquainted, therefore feel somewhat em-
barrassed in attempting an address; yet, as
we are interested in the same cause; our
aims principles and sentiments similar and
as we believe our cause is just and right; I
 will give the ideas which have presented
themselves in as concise and brief form as
possible.
	Politics has been from girlhood an inter-
esting subject to me, perhaps from the fact
that I was an only sister in a family of seven
brothers. My mother being an invalid, I
was unavoidably brought up in the society
of men more or less. Utah’s Governors,
Judges and Attornies often visited Beaver
and my father’s home in early days was
their place of hospitable welcome. I often
heard discussions, social, civil and political,
for as you are aware the little settlement of
Beaver figured in many legal trials of
notoriety. We had District Court, mines,
a military reservation and other facilities
which aid in the civilization of a country.
History in connection with newspapers, I
became accustomed to read, desiring to gain
knowledge and information, learn what was
going on in the “Great Outside World,” I
heard a number of ladies lecture, took up
the study of Phrenology and "Science of
Health,” became imbued with the firm
belief that in all things men and women
should have an interest and understanding
together. I read Daniel Webster’s Speeches,
the “Union Text Book” of our American
Statesmen including the Constutition and
Declaration of Independence,” and many,
other works like John Stuart Mill on
“Liberty,” and the more I read, the more I
felt the positive necessity of woman being
not only a wife and mother in name, but in
very deed! Intellectually strong, brave,
wise, prudent efficient and capable.
	I am a sincere advocate of woman’s suf-
frage, (also, genuine womanliness.) So
far as the right of franchise goes, every
obligation of citizenship, she is as complete
to meet as man, yet, I do earnestly think
there should be established a qualification
for both men and women voters. God
has created them equal, what one is lack-
ing the other possesses, therefore, both
are requisite to form a perfect organization
in the home community and nation, neither
is complete without the other: their rights,
and relations are one and inseparable!
	Politics are the laws and regulations.
which control the acts and conduct of a
people. A mother should be acquainted
with these the same as a father, she should
understand lawful, citizen, family, property
and personal rights; for ’tis she who holds
the destiny, or rather the molding of the
character of her children in her own hands.
	Webster says: “we admire the artist who
presents the mimic man upon the canvas,
we honor and respect the sculptor who
carves out that same image in enduring
marble, but O, how insignificant these
achievements though the highest and fairest
in all the departments of art, in comparison


with the vocation of human mothers!
They work not upon canvas, that will fade,
or marble, that will crumble into dust, but,
upon mind and spirit that will live forever
and bear for good or evil (throughout
duration the impress of a mother’s plastic
hand.”)
	’Tis near a century since woman’s suf-
frage was first introduced and discussed in 
America by Mrs. Francis Wright of
England, and Ernestine L. Rose of Poland.
Its progress has been slow, its opponents
many, criticism and derision has marked its
every advance, yet, it is gaining more
strength and influence every year, that pow-
erful emissary conservatism, is gradually
losing his hold in the minds of intelligent
people; and to-day our strongest supporters
are many of them great, good, influential
men. We feel safe in saying, that just as
soon as we are fully prepared and
credentialed in an intellectual proficiency
we can and will again enjoy unlimited fran-
chise. Our Heavenly Father does every-
thing in a right and systematic order.
He wishes his daughters as well as sons
qualified to fill positions before we receive
them; he desires us to become competent, able
women not only good but truly intelligent.
	“Well” says one “how can mothers with
families of children study Politics?” ’Tis
an old and often repeated saying, “neces-
sity is the mother of invention," here we
have it personified. Mothers are the
natural instructors of the human race; yet
we cannot teach what we ourselves do not
know, here comes necessity. We have sons
and daughters, they are our jewels, our
hope our inspiration; for them we wish to
live, to learn to be informed, to prove
worthy of the great trust reposed in us,
they are our treasures from God. Intel-
ligence is power in our grasp, unlimited!
	Still we must be patient, act wise, mean-
time gaining safe ground on which to erect
a structure. Train our sons and daughters
in the duties of the ballot, in the responsi-
bility of men and measures placed in public
office, in the magnitude and importance of
civil law, yet, radicalism will never ac-
complish this no never.
	Being a Utah woman by birth and resi-
dence, I find many things for thought and
investigation at the present time, and not
alone does woman’s suffrage form a part.
	I am a mining man's wife, (and have
warm feelings, strong sympathy with the
miners of this region and their families,)
and had for the past four years prior to
moving to Salt Lake City lived in a min-
ing camp, consequently, just now I feel
deeply interested in the Silver-problem, its
proper adjustment and ultimate success. I
am not a society woman know few of the
rules that regulate its circle, therefore beg
pardon if I break any.
	We believe there are many ways woman
can aid humanity in the present crisis, the
fall of silver, which involves, hamlet, vil-
lage, town, city, state and nation, or at
least the south and west of our Great Re-
public. Our fathers, husbands and sons
build or have erected homes, it is they who
provide or should procure the wherewith to
furnish them: mothers, wives, and daugh-
ters make the interior of those homes what
we find them: ’tis they who give credit and
order to every department, beauty, comfort
and happiness of surroundings, their taste
and artistic eye can be traced everywhere,
or vice versa, the lack of these acquirements,
noticable.
	There are various features coming up

[column 2]
nowadays in society, that cause sensible
men and women to seriously reflect. There
are numbers of young men who ought to
be good, reliable, respected citizens who are
not, they prefering to follow sporting,
gaming in all its dangerous, wicked folly,
rather than marry; is the fault all with
men? We do not believe it is, yet, we al-
low that woman is the mentor of superior
civilization the world over, still many of 
them are selfish, frivolous, extravagant and
fickle, they regard themselves as frail, fit
only to be  petted, dressed and made much
of; they crave notoriety and flattery,
jewelry, and expensive display. They dis-
regard the holiness the sacredness of mar-
riage the duties of home life, the obliga-
tions of wife and mother, the care of hus-
band and children becomes irksome
monotomous they trust everything to hired
house keepers and nurses. Is it any won-
der woes and darkness surround some
fire sides; that separation is the ultimate
end, is it any wonder some young men
nowadays dread to risk matrimony? We
read of bankrupts and failures, forgeries
and suicides, there is a cause for this, it is
not all woman’s fault, but from personal
observation and circumstantial evidence in
numbers of instances she has been more or
less associated with it.
	Wives, mothers, sisters let us study
domestic economy, let us train our daugh-
ters in the need, duty, independence and
utility of home culture, we ourselves per-
sonally superintend the management of
every department, the lines on husbands
and father’s faces will gradually disappear, a
stronger feeling of security of confidence in-
crease. Self-reliance is one of the best ele-
ments in a true woman’s character. We
should always understand the limit of
husband’s income also, his liabilities every
week and month, and carefully guard and
spend our own pin-money, then if we do
not have the free coinage of silver the com-
ing year, we will at least have the
consciousness of not having foolishly used
our means when others suffered, perhaps
have a reserve fund to assist those less
fortunate than ourselves, for there is now
and will surely be, a time of hardships this
coming winter; and whether we realize it or
not there is a strong faction in every home,
which greatly assists in lightening and bet-
tering, even from a business stand-point a
man’s credit. Then let us never forget to
sustain a true womanly bearing through
every emergency. God in giving us our
position placed us neither at the head or
foot of man, but by his side as companion
and wife, as a capable responsible helpmate.
Although our spheres in life are different,
they are none the less important. To be
the respected wife of a good, honorable
man, the mother of pure, intelligent child-
ren, we regard as the grandest possession
on earth!
			J. P. M. FARNSWORTH.
Salt Lake City, Aug. 14th, 1893.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	CHICAGO has been finally decided upon
by the Board of Lady Managers as the site
for a permanent Woman’s Building.

	MRS. ANNIE BESANT is coming to this
conntry on her way to India, to represent
Theosophy at the Parliament of Religions
in Chicago.


LITERARY WORK OF THE PAST.

			ZINE S. WHITNEY.

	PRIOR to the inception of the Ladies
Literary Club of Salt Lake City, which
has now become widely known, there had
been no Society of this character in Utah
exclusively by ladies. The desire for im-
provement in this direction among the
residents of the Territory, however, had
not been dormant, and as early as the year
1854 an association composed of both ladies
and gentlemen and known as the Polysophic-
al Society was organized. Hon.
Lorenzo Snow was the leading spirit in
this movement, and at the first meeting,
which was held at his home, he was elected
 its President, with Samuel W. Richards
and Claudius V. Spencer as his assistants.
	The meetings of the Society took the
form of a series of evening entertainments,
and much taste and judgment were exer-
cised in the preparation of the programs.
Religious exercises with their pure and
elevating influence were mingled har-
moniously with the intellectual, care was
observed in all the arrangements to relieve
the grave with the  gay, the serious with
the humorous. Extemporaneous speeches
were also judiciously interspersed. The
meetings were largely attended and a lively
interest in the Society was maintained un-
til 1857, the time of the Echo Canyon War,
which event rendered it impracticable to
longer continue the pleasurable sessions.
	THE TWENTIETH WARD INSTITUTE.
	Fifteen years later Messrs John Nichol-
son and Septimus W. Sears, appreciating
the necessity of institutions for the in-
tellectual advancement of the young suc-
ceeded, by speaking in public upon the sub-
ject in awaking an interest therein. The
result was that on January 20th, 1873, the
Twentieth Ward Institute was organized 
with John Nicholson as President, S. W.
Sears first Vice President; John Sharp Jr.
Second Vice President; W. H. Tovey
Secretary; C. R. Savage, Treasurer and
Karl G. Maeser Librarian. A Board of
Directors consisting of eight members com-
pleted the organization. During the first
year the Institute was composed entirely of
gentlemen; but at the beginning of the
second year ladies were declared eligible
and many at once became active and
valuable members. That this association,
having as its object the intellectual, moral,
social and religious improvement of its
members, accomplished much good, it is
perhaps needless to say. It created a wide
interest which led to the formation of simi-
lar societies, and it was without doubt the
parent of the Mutual Improvement As-
sociations which exist throughout the Ter-
ritory today. At the organization of the
latter in the Twentieth Ward, the Institute,
after an animated and successful career of
over two years, fell into line, and is now
known as the  Twentieth Ward Mutual Im-
provement Association.
		THE WASATCH.
	This Society probably became the most
popular among the young people of any
which had existed up to the time of its or-
ganization. Upon the invitation of Messrs.
O. F. Whitney, R. S. Wells and J. X.
Ferguson a number of young ladies and
gentlemen met at the residence of Mrs. E.
B. Wells on the evening of January 29th,
1874, for the purpose of forming a reading
class. The officers were to consist of a


President, Secretary and an Executive
Committee, to be elected each month by
ballot. O. F. Whitney was chosen Presi-
dent and Emma Wells Secretary. Major
W. W. Woods was elected chairman of the
Executive Committee, but resigned in favor
of Miss Mamie Jones, who accepted the
position, Misses Belle Clayton and Cornelia
Horne were her assistants. A critic was
also appointed each evening and meetings
convened weekly. Almost immediately,
however, the reading class was transformed
into a literary, musical and dramatic Society.
The programs consisted of original essays,
declarations, select readings, music—vocal
and instrumental, and occassionally scenes
from Shakespeare and such plays as “The
Lady of Lyons, Marble Heart” etc. were
presented. One feature not to be over
looked was the “Budget Box,” introduced
by Major Woods, now a prominent lawyer
of Idaho. In this box were regularly
placed by anonymous contributors articles
of a humorous and satirical nature, which
were read each evening to the Society by
one of the members previously appointed
for that purpose. This part of the pro-
gram always caused much merriment,
though the personalities indulged in by
the authors of these articles often created
ill-feeling and were deprecated by the
majority of the members. 
	The Wasatch continued in a prosperous
condition, increasing in membership and
popularity for about three years, when
some of its members left the Territory and
others engaged in occupations which pre-
vented them any longer giving time to
such pursuits.
	A great amount of talent was developed
in this Society and tastes were formed
which decided more than one of the mem-
bers in the choice of his profession or vo-
cation. Several have since become
prominent as journalists, lawyers, actors,
musicians, poets and historians. On the
18th of June, 1890, a reunion was held at
the home of Mrs. F. G. Kimball nee Miss
Keetie Keywood. Every member was in-
vited and some of them traveled long dis-
tances to be present on the occasion, which
proved a very enjoyable one. “The
Wasatch days’’ will ever be remembered
with pleasure and pride by all who were
connected with the Society.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE AZALEA.
	On October 25, 1875, another Society
was formed bearing the above title. The
name was chosen because of the beauty
and rarity of the Azalea flower. The
young people who composed this association
were actuated by a desire to belong to a
literary organization and being ineligible,
on account of their youth, as members of
the Wasatch—they conceived the idea of
converting a card club, previously organized
into such a society. Accordingly, on the
date given at the home of Mr. John D.
Spencer the reorganization took place, the
following officers being elected. President
George F. Felt; Vice President, John D.
Spencer; Secretary Charles B. Felt and
Treasurer, James Miller. This Society
was a particularly happy one, the members
all being congenial and their aim, which
was to combine intellectual improvement
with innocent pleasures, was certainly
praise worthy. The agreement made by
each male member prior to his initiation
was that he would obstain from all intoxi-
cants, tobacco in every form, profane
language and conduct unbecoming a gentle-


man. The Azalea proved to be the longest
lived of all the early associations, the final
meeting occuring on September 25, 1884,
just nine years after its inception. Among
the members of this Society are now to be
found poets, actors, play writers, lawyers
and ministers.
		THE SHAKESPEARE SOCIETY
	The Shakespeare Society was organized
by a number of students of literature at
the University of Deseret. Their plan was
to continue the study of Shakespere follow-
ing the course given at the University
which comprised a thorough study of the
great author’s plays.
	One of the most prominent members and
perhaps the originator of the Society was
Miss Alice Merrill, now Mrs. Horne, at
whose home the first meeting was held in
1885. Sessions thereafter convened weekly
at the homes of the lady members. In the
course followed by this Society, a critical
examination of the play under consideration
was required. The poetry, construction,
diction and etymology were examined and
discussed; the history of the play studied,
essays and criticisms written on all the im-
portant characters, and selections memorized
by each student. While it was studied as
a classic, thorough enjoyment of the plot
and a comprehension of its meaning were
obtained. Occassionally, to vary the tenor
of the meetings, members would commit to
memory some of the scenes and produce
them ;these occasions are memorable for the
recreation and pleasure that they afforded.
Some of the plays studied by the Society
were Hamlet, Macbeth, Julius Ceasar,
King Lear, Merchant of Venice and
Othello. Earnest and progressive work
was done for a period of over four years,
when the Society though it did not disband
ceased to study Shakspeare. This was ow-
ing to absence from the Territory of many
of its members; since then it has held no
meetings other than those of a purely social
character. Seven of the members have
graduated from college and received de-
grees, while nearly all of them are gradu-
ates of the University of Deseret.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Y. L. N. M. I. A. of this County
gave an entertainment in the magnificent
pavilion at Saltair, August 11th, ult., at
which some of the best local talent of the
City appeared in music and recitations.
Nellie C. Taylor presided in the absence of
the President, Mary A. Freeze. After a
selection on the piano by Kate Romney,
President Wilford Woodruff made an ad-
dress which was highly appreciated. His
voice was clear as that of most young men
and he was listened to with the most marked
attention while he graphically related some
of the experiences of the pioneers to this
once barren desert. The solos by Bessie
Deane Allison and Louie Poulton, also the
duet by Maggie Bassett and Thos. Ashworth
were very fine. Dr. M. Hughes Cannon’s
rendition of “The Sioux Chiefs Daughter’’
was excellent also B. L. Young’s humorous
reading. Gov. Caleb West’s address was
effective, particularly in his ovation to the
pioneers. The guitar and mandolin clubs 
discoursed sweet music, and Prof. W. C. 
Clive with his violin solo—Maggie Taylor, 
accompanist—were fully appreciated, music
is always sweeter and more touching upon
the water, and the Saltair pavilion is built
out in the Dead Sea of the West. A din-
ner was given by the Committee of this


Association after the exercises were over
and conversation and musicmade a happy
finale to the brilliant entertainment.
	THE Annual Convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association of
Utah will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms in this city, on Thursday,
October 5th. The business meeting will
commence at 10 o’clock in the morning,
and it is earnestly requested by the Presi-
dent, Sarah M. Kimball,and the other Ter-
ritorial officers that Delegates from all the
countries should be present and take part in
the election of officers for the ensuing year
and vote, for a Delegate to the Annual
Convention in Washington. At two p. m.
the Convention proper will be held when
it is expected there will be brief addresses
by the ablest exponents of Woman Suffrage
in the Territory, and the results of the
Executive meeting in the morning voted
upon. Presidents in the several counties
should give special attention to this' notice
and to the circular letters sent out by the
Cor. Sec’y. It is intended to make this
Convention attractive and telling in the
cause. The public are invited to the after-
noon session, which is sure to be interest-
ing.
	THE Conference of the Relief Society of
this Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city on Friday
September 22nd, meetings commencing at
10 A. M. and at 2 p. m. as usual. Repre-
sentatives from all the branches in the
county are earnestly requested to attend as
well as all members who can be present
The public are also cordially invited and a
special invitation is hereby extended to the-
presiding authorities of the Church and of
the Stake and to all Bishops and brethren
interested in this benevolent institution.


R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30, and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R.K.THOMAS

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
No. 41 S. 		WEST TEMPLE STREET,
				  Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.

Dr. ELLIS R. SHIPP, SURGEON AND ACCOUCHEUR.
Diseases of Women a Specialty.
	Instructions upon these subjects; two classes
taught yearly, beginning respectively Oct. 10th
and April 10th. Reviews given to former students
free of charge. For particulars enquire personally
or by letter at No. 18 Main St., Salt Lake City.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

