Vol. 22.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1894.	No. 11.


CONTENTS:
	Woman’s Exponent—S. W. Richards. New
England Thanksgiving—Aunt Em. The Abuses
of Christmas 1893—Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Some of our Lady Friends—S. T. Brimhall. Wo-
man Suffrage Column—Mary E. Irvine. Semi-
Monthly Meeting—L. D Alder. U. W. P. Club—
Ella W. Hyde. Party at Sandy. The Reconstruction
of the Government. An Important Meeting—Mary
Wells. Woman’s Rights—E.H. Lyon. Editorial
Notes.
	EDITORIAL.—The Tendency of the Age.
Editorial Notes.
	POETRY.—In the Celestial City—Lydia D Alder.
A Welcome to the old Folks. Message from
New Zealand—L. M. Hewlings.


[Column 1]
	IN THE CELESTIAL CITY. 

		A REVERIE.

SAY where is now my baby girl
	Of twenty years ago? 
Who came one morning beautiful
	When the world was all aglow?
She brought such love and gladness
	To that parental nest;
The Angels came and left her
	Awhile on earth to rest.
How we thoughtful watched her
	Grow lovely day by day!
The sky was shadowed in her eyes 
	Around her mouth the dimples play,
Her hair was long and fell in curls
	Around her beauteous face,
Her voice was low and tuneful
	Her form was full of grace.
So to womanhood she grew
	This joy of earthly home
Our heart strings close around her twined—
	So lovely had she grown,
It seemed that far off Heaven
	Shone out those lovelv eyes.
And when you drank their beauties in
	You looked in Paradise.
Her spirit true and beautiful
	Crowned with bliss that home,
Where love so deep and lasting
	Around this flower had grown.
Then came a day, can I forget,
	A cloud came o’er the scene,
And rested on this loved one
	The sun and her between.
And when it lifted she had gone,
	The angels had come down,
And called her back to Heaven,
	To wear a glorious crown,
I stood beside that bed
	Of death nor sensed my woe—
Her eyes gazed on the Glorious Day—
	Not now for me to know.
Oh! where is now my baby girl
	With brown and curly hair
With face so fair and winsome?
	Gone from earth oh, where?
The angel messenger of death, 
	Has borne her far away,
From earth with all its sorrow—  
	To realms of endless day.
Oh, God keep all her loved ones
	Left here on earth to mourn,

[Column 2]
So they can see and greet her
	In the Resurrection Morn,
She walks the Golden City
	Her elder sister by her side,
And when God makes up his jewels
	Will be a glorious bride.
And what of me, the mother
	Whose sorrow knows no rest?
Methinks I’ll bow before the throne
	And say “God knoweth best.’’
Then when my wee, wee baby
	Again lies on my breast
And bonny Frank with golden curls
	Close to my side is pressed,
My heart will melt in happy sighs—
	I’ll joyous wait for all the rest.
					Lydia D. Alder.
November, 1893.


[Column 1]
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	What, do as this caption implies: Ex-
pose woman! Yes, she will endure the
most critical, exposition, when compared
with man, as ruler over her. We are will-
ing to accept the compliment which is ever
due to her, and heed the poetic advice;
		“Be to her faults a little blind,
		Be to her virtues very kind;"
	for her virtues are of that historical re-
nown which justly elevate her in the
estimation of her appreciative companion.
	When in the garden, woman was master
of the situation; for a time she held the
destiny of a world in her hands, and not
until man yielded to her persuasive power
did she commit that destiny to the keeping
of her lord. Then with all the loveliness
with which man was surrounded, and even
the tree of life within his reach, there was,
to him, nothing so touching to his divine
nature, not yet humanized; nothing so
desirable in his eyes as the lovely form and
earnest eloquence of that truthful advocate
pleading for his society, to share with her
the conditions by which, and by which alone,
they could become as Gods, knowing both
good and evil, and thereby inherit those
attributes without which there is no God.
	Justice and mercy can be developed only
where good and evil are experienced: both
of which are necessary to the agency of
man.
	Woman may well be proud today of the
part she acted in the glorious panorama of
human existence, she chose her part and
played it well, to the end that man might
be, and have like knowledge as the Gods.
	To her the world is greatly indebted for
what man is, for what he has been, and for
what he may be. From the nursing babe
to the fully developed man of physical and
mental stature, of moral and intellectually
developed genius, by which he becomes the
lord of creation; woman as mother. is the
great factor and promoter of human great-
ness, in the evolutions of our race. Her
influence is stamped upon the character of
man from early childhood, and the influence
of that character is felt in society, leaving
its impress where it may be felt for the
elevation of all social intercourse, through
all the realms of human existence.

[Column 2]
	Though she may seek for political in-
fluence it is only for the laudable purpose of
extending her field of usefulness; and her
desire for power, is only that it may be
used to abate many of the social evils to
which the race of man is in bondage today.
And as a rule we may say that her desire is
as strong, her pleadings as sincere and con-
sistent, as when she plead with her lord in
the garden of Eden; and would, to the well
being of the world today, be as fruitful to
the perpetuity and happiness of man, as it
then was to his existence.
		Then her desire was of the man,—
			Come go with me, and so shall we,
			Fulfill our God-llke destiny;
		To be alone, with good unknown:
			How worthless such a life must be!
	But now she pleads for political recogni-
tion, and says:
		Give us the power and we’ll dispel,
		The reign of tyrants born of hell:
		From men’s unblushing demon deeds,
		Her earnest soul for freedom pleads.
	While woman’s entreaties and influence
have done so much, and would do more,
still for the world of man, her rebuke is no
less a power in restraining the devotee of sin.
	Her tearful eye of entreaty may melt in-
to the keenest sympathy, the stout and
possibly the stubborn heart of man’s
kindled passions; but her stern rebuke in
defence of honor, virtue, and the right,
will fill with awe the most impassioned
enemy, that would intrude upon her peace
and domestic virtues. Her weapons of
defence are indeed powerful when contrasted
or arrayed against the impudence of the
intruder upon the sacred precincts of her
innocence, and the sanctuary of her love.
	Her will is mighty to conquer and sub-
due the wrong, while in her legitimate field 
she is encouraged to exercise it, and that
field may well be extended with safety and
profit to the race, of which she is mother,
and the guardian of their youthful
experience.
		Let woman’s grace and love combine,
		To shed a lustre o’er mankind;
		And kindle fires to ever burn
		In every heart, the truth to learn.
	With woman’s sensitive nature and
powers of comprehension; her enduring
love which like God’s, enables her to be-
come endeared even to those who may be 
the cause of her troubles; her keen ap-
preciation and discernment of both the
right, and the wrongs of life; are but
exhibitions of her nature, which is ever
tending to the development of the divine;
and which indicates her true relationship to
that divinity of which man so often proves
himself a stranger, that it may well be
said, without her, “man is not in the Lord;”
neither can he become legitimately a lord
over and in the midst of intelligent
beings.
		Man of the dust was earthly made,
		Woman from man:—a higher grade;
		Man has the stern and master mind,
		Woman is plastic, loving, kind;
		Man’s nature is to rule, have sway—
		Woman’s to love and him obey;
		Man has the burden of toil to bear.
		Woman his love and cares to share.


No earthly good was e’er designed,
Man should enjoy without her kind.
Man may desire, may know, and then,
Woman must bear the souls of men;
And man the woman still must know,
To fill his mission here below.
All earth is witness she has filled
Her mission, as by Heaven willed,
From first to last, from Eden’s bower,
Her grace and love have been her power;
By which her reign may be complete,
O’er man’s humanity and vain deceit;
And he whose soul can love her well.
May find a home where angels dwell
She led the way for man to go,
That good and evil he might know,
By which, like God he might become,
And live again with Him at home.
S. W. RICHARDS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
NEW ENGLAND THANKSGIVING.
	THE early settlers of New England were
devotedly religious and acknowledged the
hand of Providence in everything that
transpired and were especially grateful in
being saved from starvation in the wilder-
ness and thankful for the harvest of grain
that crowned their labors during the first
years of their sojourn in the new country. 
It was as early as 1633 that they issued an
official appointment for a day of Thanks-
giving, after the harvest which was always
in November falling upon different dates
but always on Thursday, the idea suggest-
ting itself from the Hebrew feast of
tabernacles, feast of ingathering at the end
of the year.
	The Dutch governors too sometimes ap-
pointed Thansgiving—at any rate it grew
to be a national day during the Revolution
and was annually recommended by Con-
gress, but when peace was proclaimed it
became only a matter of taste, except in
New England where it has always been
rigidly observed. During the civil war
Abraham Lincoln issued a national
proclamation of the annual thanksgiving
and since that time the custom has prevailed
always falling on the last Thursday in
November.
	In my childhood thanksgiving was the
great day of the closing year and we were
not allowed to celebrate Christmas, lest we
should be thought ’Piscopals or Church of
England people or worst of all Roman
Catholics. One thing in which it differed
from Christmas was the giving of presents,
it was also more strictly religious. Every-
thing possible was done beforehand, and
we always went to meeting on that day as
much as though it were Sunday, and the
singers were prepared by careful practice
with anthems of praise and the sermons
were admonitions to the people to be
thankful to God. But usually the people
went from the meeting house to the places
of public amusement or the loaded dinner
tables where feasting and visiting inter-
mingling of relatives and friends, songs,
speeches, dancing and mirth occupied the
remainder of the day, games of all kinds by
the children in which often the older ones
joined were also customary, and the even-
ings were spent socially, nuts, apples,
molasses candy (or in my day maple sugar
candy was more common) helped to while
away the time, pop corn too was one of the
luxuries—and the Thanksgiving dinner
was never complete without roast turkey
and pig, baked beans, mince and pumpkin pie,
and plum pudding, made with rice or
Boston crackers and other almost innumera-
ble varieties of nuts, fruits vegetables etc.
	Outdoor games by the boys were also in-
dulged in, some of them not of a very 

[Column 2]
elevating character. Family parties were
the most enjoyable, the married daughters
and sons, coming home with their little
ones to join the family circle, where, the
reminiscences of the past were recalled,
and the old songs familiar to childhood
sung again, often one remembering only a
verse, or a line but all joining in a sort of
medley; the new babies came home at
thanksgiving time to grandma and grandpa
and sometimes four generations would be
present at these happy reunions. Visiting
New England only a few years ago I
found that this custom of primitive
times was still observed and with far more
favor among the Puritanical families
than Christmas, for though they are be-
coming more and more English in manner,
if you go into the villages especially, the
plain country people will tell you without
the least reservation, that keeping
Christmas with all sorts of jolly festivities
is Roman Catholic, and they hate their
ways and all their forms and ceremonies.
But we do not have too many holidays or
too much pleasure with Christmas, Thanks-
giving, 4th of July, New Year’s and all
the other national days Washington’s
birthday and all our own birthdays, and
the 24th, of July our Pioneer Day.
					AUNT EM.


[Column 1]
THE ABUSES OF CHRISTMAS
IN 1893.

	WHILE a chorus of voices is chanting the
holiday joys and the pleasant memories of
children, I feel impelled to disturb the gen-
eral harmony with one discordant note of
protest and complaint.
	I fain would rouse my countrywomen to
the thought of the serious abuses that have
grown out of the once simple customs that
made Christmas one of the most charming
days of the year. Amusing letters, little
tokens of affection, have all given place to
most extravagant presents from those who
have plenty of money, and elaborate pieces
of embroidery and worsted work from
those who have neither time nor strength to
waste The pleasures our mothers had in
the give and take of a few trifles has now
developed into a stern necessity, making
wholesale Christmas presents as imperative
as the laws of the Medes and Persians.
The season is a dread to paterfamilias, be-
cause of the terrible strain on his purse
strings, and to the women of the house-
hold because of the labor involved. How
anxious they look, as they press their way
through the crowds in the stores from day to
day, and though they go home with all the
bundles they can carry, there is always
some one forgotten, which compels another
visit to the busy marts of trade, and another
appeal to the well drained purse of some
long-suffering son of Adam.
	And although women seem wild with de-
light in spending every cent they can wring
out of anyone, you will hear them say,
“Oh dear me!; here comes Christmas day
again!” “I am hardly rested from last
year!” and “Now I must get presents
somehow for at least two dozen different
friends!” “I can’t afford to go to Tiffany’s
and buy beautiful presents, and so I must
work early and late to make them.” Who
would value a present given as a necessity?
It should be an offering of love, a real
pleasure both to giver and receiver.
	The delight of children in an ideal St.
Nicholas, who puts a few little toys in their

[Column 2]
stockings, is all very well, but when the
custom, with a large circle of grown people,
becomes imperative, it is a tax on one’s
friendship, and an unmitigated nuisance.
	I spent a few weeks at a sanitarium one
year and noticed all the nervous women,
for whom the physicians were doing their
uttermost to restore to health and comfort,
sitting in the parlors, with the thermometer
up in the seventies, working away intently
hour after hour to get some satin pincush-
ions and velvet slippers embroidered. I said
throw them to the winds and go up on
top of the house and lie down on their cots
in the sunshine. They exclaimed “What
would you do about Christmas presents?”
“Give none,” I replied, “there is no neces-
sity in the case. If you wish to remind
your friends of your existence, or to show
that you remember them, send your card
with ‘Merry Christmas,’ or ‘best wishes of
the season.” If you were my friends I
should rather get your cards than embroidery
that had taxed your vital forces and your
optic nerves for weeks in your present con-
dition.
	If you are always troubled with spasms
of emotional benevolence at Christmas time
send some meat and vegetables to the poor,
apples, nuts and candy to their children,
the money you spend in satin, silks and
bright worsteds would cheer many a fire-
side and make the children inexpressibly
happy.
	Christmas and wedding presents and
flowers at funerals have come to be such a
tax and nuisance in their extravagance and
excess that sensible people, not wishing
their friends to feel compelled to observe
the custom, now say on their cards of invi-
tation “No presents,” or “no flowers.” If
rich friends wish to send us a check for a
hundred dollars or more, we might receive
it with pleasure, as it requires no labor to
draw a check, nor privation to give of their
abundance.
	But a present of an elaborate piece of
worsted work, say of “Rebecca at the
Well” over which a dear friend had strained
her optic nerves for weeks, and inhaled
impalpable particles of arsenic from the
bright green worsteds, would give me no
pleasure. On the contrary it would be a
source of sorrow every time I looked at it.
I would not work a cat on the toe of a slip-
per for the one I love best on earth. I
would rather give or take a live cat.
	Standing in a book store a few days before
Christmas one year, I heard a wife say to
her young husband, “I must get a present
for Lucy.” “No,” said he, “I have al-
ready spent much more than we can afford.
Come, let us go.” But she insisted, and
lingered in spite of his appeals. I felt so
sorry for the man, probably a clerk on a
small salary, that I hurried away. Sup-
pose, dear ladies, you try the experiment
for one year and give no presents, and see
what a relief it is, and what a saving to
your husband’s pocket-book, as well as of 
your own time and temper. At all events
in these hard times curtail somewhat your
expenses and labors in this direction.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton.


THE South Carolina Senate has been de-
bating a bill to enable married women to
make contracts. One of the Senators
pointed out that the existing law places
women on the same footing with lunatics.
But the bill was rejected.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A WELCOME TO THE OLD FOLKS.

YE honored veterans! ye aged sires!
We bid ye welcome in our midst today,
Prophets, Apostles, God's own noblemen,
With grand dames by your sides, we welcome
	all.
Full three score years and ten you've sojourned
	here,
You've reached the alloted time to mortals
	given,
And still through Father's goodness ye are here
To bless us with your smiles, as rays from heaven.
Ye have borne the heat and burden of the day,
Have braved life's battles with true faith in God;
Stern duty for your motto; ye have proved
That ye could bow beneath His chastening rod.
'Twould fail my humble pen to tell all ye have
	wrought;
To tell what ye have not done, would be easier
	far;
But the crowning glory of your lives sublime,
Lies in the rearing of our Temples, four.
Like Simeon of old, ye now can say,
"Let us depart in peace" for we have seen
The Temple of our God 'mid mountains reared,
And swelled the hosannahs to his holy name.
O noble fathers, mothers ye have set
For us to emulate, examples grand;
Thy children's children, walking in thy steps,
Shall ready be to obey all God's command.
And were it not that death is passed on all,
How gladly would we always keep ye here,
Not still to plant and labor, but to bless,
And in our days of trial give us cheer,
But soon you'll pass beyond the shadowy river,
Reunion hold with friends who once were here;
And as you meet with hand clasps, still rememb-
	er
The Old Folk's parties on this earthly sphere.
And we too shall join you in that circle,
	Just kindly take us by the hand, and say:
You'r welcome to our King's Grand Party;
	What recompense! for welcomes given to day.
July 18th, 1893.


FOR THE EXPONENT:
	MESSAGE FROM NEW ZEALAND.

	[Containing news of the bill bestowing full suf-
frage upon women passed by both houses of
Legislature and signed by the Governor.]
	I was down on the beach, this morning,
		Walked alone by the sounding sea,
	And from the wild waves in their sobbing,
		A message was wafted to me.
	It came from a far-away Country, 
		That is washed by billowy waves,
	A land rising Queen-like and lovely,
		Far out from the sea and its graves.
	It told of the grave and the noble,
		Of manhood and womanhood true,
	Now striving to make the world better,
		With freedom for all held in view.
	Regardless of sex or of station,
		Of whatever caste, or of creed,
	They'll silence the voice of oppression,
		And work for humanity’s need.
	O, glorious message! most welcome;
		A forecast of vision sublime, 
	Of a full free emancipation
		At last of all nations and climes.
							L. M. HEWLINGS.
Chicago, Oct. 1893.


[Column 1]
SOME OF OUR LADY FRIENDS.

	THERE are among our Mexican lady
friends some very intelligent and interest-
ing women. Donna Francisca Vega or

[Column 2]

“Panchita” as she is familiarly called,
is a widow lady of about thirty years. She
married when about fifteen years of age
and one year afterward was left a widow
by the accidental death of her husband
who was one of the prominent men of the
state, he having had a wife before “Pan-
chita” and a family of several children who
love their step-mother as dearly as they
could have done their own mother. Those
children are all married and live in El Paso
and Chihuahua. They often come to Casas
Grandes to see Panchita and look out for
her welfare. Once while we lived at Casas
Grandes and one of her step-daughters
came to see her, they resolved to take a
ride over to the colony and we were invited
to go along so we fixed up the baby and
twelve year old daughter. Soon the large
old fashioned coach came bouncing up to
the door and we were soon comfortably seat-
ed and started out with the two ladies
Panchita’s brother was coachman and
seemed to know just how to manage his
four mules as they glided along up and
down the hills. The Chihuahua lady was
quite interested in informing herself about
our people. We arrived in the colony had
a good visit and returned home in the
evening; felt that we had spent a very pro-
fitable day with two refined ladies. The
Mexican ladies are very fond of their
friends and never forgot a favor; they are
very sensitive and inclined like ourselves to
be jealous. I must not forget to say that
“Panchita” is a model lady, very polite,
and esteems virtue as beyond price; she lives
with her father and mother and is their
only daughter, she generally teaches a
small private school of little girls. We
happened in the other day and were sur-
prised to see girls so small doing such hand-
some fancy work, of lace, flowers, work on
card, and canvas, it would be a credit to
any children.
	We remember next our dear friend Julia,
she is a mother to everybody and takes
pride in doing charitable deeds, she came
over here the other day to see her ‘‘com-
adre” as she calls us, and she was really
taken up with the industry and neatness of
our thriving colony, and expressed herself
as much pleased with all that she saw. We
entertained herself and daughter the best
we could, and she went away feeling quite
happy.
	We must not forget Don Victoria a dear
little beauty, the wife of Don Dolores Hi-
dalgo. Her eyes are bright and sparkling
and her pretty wavy brown hair is always
neatly combed and she is in general
neat and clean, and very intelligent and I
think that she could represent her sex and
“Paiganas” quite as honorably as most any
lady in any land; but women’s rights is
scarcely thought of in Mexico, it is wo-
man’s right here to be strictly obedient to her
husband, and as a general thing they are,
he does as he pleases and she tamely sub-
mits, that is how we account for such sub-
missive and often cowardly sons, as we
often meet among the natives; crush liberty
of thought and action out of the mothers,
and you make cowards of their sons, but
this is not the invariable rule in Mexico, for
there are many liberal-minded men in this
nation who delight in respecting women
and protecting them.
	The most prevalent error here is that 
labor is looked upon by the better class as
degrading to woman, which mistake often
leads to immorality and crime. What we

[Column 3]
want to impress upon the minds of our
Mexican lady friends is, that it is honorable
to learn some trade, or several if necessary,
so that they can gain an honorable living,
and save themselves soul and body; and
that labor is honorable, and saving to the
moral culture of the nation. Our people in
the colonies have set this example before
them and they are beginning to realize it;
we see many of the Mexican ladies making
straw hats and other articles that are use-
ful. More anon.
						S. T. Brimhall.


WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

S. L. C. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of W. S. A. held Dec. 19th,
in 13th, Ward Hall President McFar-
lane in the chair. “Sang “Proud state
of the Union,” prayer C. C. R. Wells.
Sang “Come, come away.” Roll called
and minutes of November meeting read
and approved. Discussion followed as to a
place of meeting. Mrs. McCune offered
her parlor, which was accepted with the
hearty approval of all. Vice President
Druce was interested in this work and
would like to see the franchise extended
woman at an early day, thought we ought
to educate ourselves so that we could vote
intelligently, read from The Woman’s
Tribune a good article on Woman’s
Movement. Vice President Price made
some very intelligent remarks on fallen
women, wished something could be done
to help them to a better life, also spoke of
the needs existing at the present time in
consequence of so many unemployed.
Vice Prest. Eardley thought we ought to
be more parliamentary in our meeting
referred to some club of boys and girls
she had listened to, was surprised at the
intelligent manner in which they conducted
their meeting, referred to the subject that
Mrs. Price spoke upon, thought many of
them could be reclaimed if they were
dealt with kindly. President Mc. Farlane
followed on the same subject, would like to
see women get the ballot then we could
work better for all, had noticed a great im-
provement in women, some men can say
the right thing at the right time, John G.
Carlyle was one of this kind; he was
possessed of tact and if he had to refuse a
request, one went away feeling as good as
if it had been granted, we should try to do
good in a quiet way, read an article from,
The Inter Ocean. C. C. R. Wells sug-
gested that each one inform herself upon
the qualifications of a voter. Moved to
adjourn until the third Tuesday in January
at Mrs. McCune’s, 270 West South Temple
—at 2 p. m.
	MARY E. IRVINE, Sec.


IT is announced from Washington that
the Secretary of the Interior has resolved
to abate the smoke nuisance in his depart-
ment, and that henceforth smoking by the
official force during office hours is to be
prohibited. The clerk devoted to the
cigarette, cigar or pipe must decide whether
his smoke or his job is the more valuable to
him. This praiseworthy precedent by the
Secretary of the Interior might well be fol-
lowed in all the government departments.
—National Temperance Advocate.
DISPATCHES from Italy foreshadow a 
general revolutionary movement.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (melia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
     Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
[-]ng, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY,	JANUARY 15, 1894.


[Column 1]
THE TENDENCY OF THE AGE.
	THE peculiar condition of the country at
the present time, on account of the financial
depression is calculated to call attention to
the why’s and wherefore’s that have
brought about this state of things, and to
those who study the matter carefully some
remedy must necessarily be sought for, and
if possible found, or some method of adjust-
ment of labor and compensation, arrived at,
or some more economic way of living and
of expending the wealth of the world,
that there may be sufficient for all.
	Women should interest themselves in 
this great problem, for really they are the
most deeply interested party, the ones who
are most likely to suffer from the disarrange-
ment of conditions that throw people out of
employment, and force them to go hither
and thither for work, or to seek their
fortunes, by sea or by land poor or other-
wise.
	It seems remarkable at the present day
that women cannot see that it would be
well for them to have an intelligent opinion
on these subjects, and at least to find out
whether the womanly element diffused,
and fine discriminating sense of justice
possessed by the sex would not help solve
these difficult questions.
	To be sure, some do see the need of wo-
man’s help in affairs of state, but the
multitude are not converted to the idea of
political equality. And yet the crisis is
coming, the truth has already dawned upon
some who had been very indifferent previous
to this Columbian year, and it is an
acknowledged fact that the trend of the en-
tire Exposition work was in the direction of
equal rights for all. Women proved their
executive ability on the Board of Lady
Managers to the perfect satisfaction of all
concerned, and it is universally admitted
that women are more economical in ex-
penditures than men. That fact alone un-
der existing circumstances would count
greatly in their favor. Not only the
National Board of Lady Managers acquit-
ted themselves creditably in their manage-
ment, but the State Boards and Lady Com-
missioners and women engaged on Com-
mittees, and last though by no means least
the great Congress of women; its manage-
ment entirely under the direction of women.
That Woman’s Congress stands pre-eminent
among all the host of Congresses that came
after. It had no precedent to follow for
such an one had never been held, the world
had not seen its like, and is it not most
absurd to refuse to such women as Mrs.

[Column 2]
Palmer, Mrs. Henrotin, Miss Anthony,
Mrs. Sewall, Mrs. Avery and their 
colleagues the ballot, by means of which so
much might be accomplished towards mak-
ing women independent or at least equally
so with men in industrial pursuits? Yet 
these heroic and magnificent women are
powerless to carry a measure except through
their persuasive eloquence, or womanly
shrewdness and tact. We are not giving
any reasons why women should be political
equals, but simply calling attention to the
perfect indifference with which the majority 
of women view this matter. They simply
will not look into the subject, they have not
time, or its too much trouble, or its not the
proper thing, yet when some serious
difficulty presents itself, they are compelled
to come forward and “lend a hand’’ for the
time being, but they even then refuse in
many instances to think seriously and study
the cause though they see the effect.
	Men agree that there must be a radical
change of some sort, yet cannot predict in
what way it is to come; peacable methods
are best, and women are generally for peace,
that would be one grand element in public
affairs a peace policy.
	Whether women are prepared or not for
the responsibility of suffrage the tendency
of the times is in that direction, and the wise
and farseeing realize and can appreciate the
necessity for preparation. Every individual
woman who has the best interests of the
community in which she lives and of the
great common wealth of the Republic at
heart, should in some definite way inform
herself as to the laws and measures that
exist, first in her own locality and then in
the state and the United States. It is not
enough to be familiar with generalities,
most of us are very fond of ancient history,
but know very little of the history of the 
time in which we are actually living.
	The women of the State of New York
are carrying on a vigorous campaign in the
interests of the franchise and if perseverance
energy and pluck will win, then they will
surely achieve a signal triumph. A state
that has such illustrious women to lead the
hosts onward as Mrs. Stanton and Miss
Anthony ought not to fear defeat. What a
glorious victory for women would be the
Empire State with woman suffrage in its
platform, and what a magnificent recom-
pense for the life long labors of the two 
distinguished heroines and chiefs in the 
suffrage cause, Mrs. Stanton and Miss
Anthony would such a victory be; and cer-
tainly the imperative needs of the day and
the hour demand some potent power to im-
fuse into the body politic.
	The women of Utah who exercised the
right of franchise for so long a period of
time must surely be better informed in re-
gard to its advantages than those who never
have had the practical experience in its use
and methods. One would think having
had the educational benefit of the ballot
such women should be able to speak advis-
edly on the subject, and persuade the timid,
doubting class and convince the thoughtless
and indifferent ones of the real need of the
ballot for women that all may join together
in one great phalanx to secure equal rights
and privileges for all classes of citizens ir-
respective of sex. That woman may no
longer be classed with idiots, lunatics and
criminals in the body politic.


[Column 1]
	EDITORIAL NOTES.

THE Dunford Shoe Co. whose store is at

[Column 2]
57. S. Main St. are offering great induce-
ments in the sale of shoes of the finest
quality as well as useful, ordinary and
durable kinds. The latest styles too in all
footwear of every kind and description can
be found in this pioneer shoe store, and the
prices arranged for the next thirty days are
at the actual Factory cost, and are without
doubt the lowest ever offered to the public
in this City. Remember friends this
business is managed by a woman and should
certainly receive the patronage of the
ladies, especially as it is a reliable and well-
managed institution.
	THE Stake Secretaries in all the several
Stakes of Zion are now reminded that it is
time to send in reports to be compiled for
the April Conference from the Relief Society,
throughout all its Stakes and also from
branches where there is no Stake organiza-
tion. These reports should be made out
for the entire year 1893, from January first
to December 31st. Secretaries please take
special notice, direct all reports to this of-
fice, and send them in just as soon as pos-
sible, that there may be no delay in the
compilation of a full and complete report of
the entire organization.
	THE LEGISLATURE of the Territory
which convened on the 9th of January
has its Committees hard at work in the
various departments assigned to them, and
everything seems tending towards the ac-
complishment of the results necessary for
the prosperity and advancement of the 
general interests of Utah. It is everywhere
conceded that able men have been elected
who are looking to the public welfare more
than personal or sectional interests, and
there appears to be very pleasant amiability
manifested by those of different party
views, which is likely to prove of greater
benefit than partisanship. The members
seem to be taking a deep interest in
educational and reform matters, as well as
the agricultural and manufacturing enter-
terprises, and home industries are receiving 
special attention.
	THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE of Jan. 13,
Washingtan D. C. mentions the recent
death of Mrs. Lura Orms, daughter of
Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood of Washington
D. C. and her only remaining child. This
is a sad bereavment, the mother and
daughter being closely associated both in
public work and in the home. Their love
for each other was a marked feature of their
lives, and the blow must fall heavily upon
the mother, but her heroism will undoubted-
ly assert itself, and her labors for the good 
of others will help her to bear this sore
affliction. May our Heavenly Father
comfort and sustain her in this time of
trial, and help her to acknowledge his
divine will even in her great sorrow. The
funeral services were held on Monday
Jan. 8th, at Mrs. Lockwood's home and
were largely attended by the National
Woman's Press Association of which Mrs. 
Lockwood is a prominent member.	
	MRS. ELIZABETH BROOKS who died in
this City Dec. 4, 1893, at the age of 88
years (lacking a few days) was a very
worthy, as well as a very able woman, and
had made great sacrifices for her religious
faith. She was the widow of a Ship
Captain Thomas P. Brooks, and was well
to do in the world, when she embraced the
Gospel; her friends all turned against her,


but true to the principles she had espoused
she maintained her integrity and left her
native land and home in Ipswich
to come to Zion. She brought with her
the two youngest children; two sons, who
were then mates of vessels followed a few
years after, so all but one, her eldest,
gathered with the Saints. The funeral
services were held in the 20th Ward Meet-
ing House, following on the same day at
2 p. m. the funeral of Mrs. C. R. Savage.
The house had been handsomely decorated
and the beautiful flowers added to the im-
pressiveness of the occasion. The singing
was excellent, the prayers comforting, the
discourse by Elder C. W. Penrose, was ex-
ceedingly interesting and instructive, consol-
ing remarks were also made by Counselor
Druce of the 12th Ward where Sister
Brooks had resided for many years. Sister
Brooks maiden name was Harper and she
was born in Weymouth, England Dec. 16,
1805 of goodly parentage and had re-
ceived a good education for those days;
she died firm in the faith of the Latter-day
work; leaving quite a large posterity of
children, grand children and great grand-
children to labor for her kindred who have
passed behind the vail.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th, Ward Assembly
Hall, Dec. 2nd, 1893, President Z. D. H.
Young presiding. Sang “O, my Father,”
prayer by Sister L. D. Alder, continued by
singing “Welcome best of all good meet-
ings” &c. Minutes of last meeting read
and approved. President Young gave in-
structions concerning some of the studies
given in the Temple. Desired the sisters
to take in their order the lectures on Faith
in the Doctrine and Covenants which give
an account of the descent of the Priesthood
on the earth asked the sisters to teach these
things to their children President Young
then desired Sister L. D. Alder to read the
Second Lecture on Faith in the Doc. and
Cov. which contains an account of the
inhabitants of the earth and their works,
lecture read down to the time of the flood.
	Counselor Stevenson then spoke con-
cerning meeting from time to time, thought
it necessary to educate us, and keep alive
the desire in our hearts to serve God, said
we should be charitable one toward
another, and merciful, and remember that it
is great to be a judge, made other remarks.
	Sister M. E. Kimball, bore her testimony
thought it quite plain that a Latterday
prophet was as necessary, to usher in this
dispensation as was John the Baptist to
proclaim the coming of the Savior. Spoke
of some of her early experiences, and gave
other good instructions. Sisters Annie
Wheeler, Larsen, Williams, Irvine,  Bar-
row and Mair each bore a faithful
testimony to the Latter-day work.
	Counselor E. Stevenson and Sister
Brown added some further remarks upon
the faith of the Gospel. President Young
spoke of Sister Julia McDonald desiring
that wonderful instances of healing and
miracles performed in this day be sent to 
her as she was making a book of them.
	Her address is St. George Utah.
	President Young testified that President
B. Young established these meetings and
she thought they were beautiful and would 
be a light to our souls.


Announced the Quarterly Conference to
meet in this Hall, Friday, Dec. 15th, 1893.
The meeting stood adjourned for four
weeks. Benediction by Sister Steele.
				L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


[Column 1]
	MINUTES of the Ladies’ meeting held in
the 14th, Ward Assembly Hall Dec. 30,
1893, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “O, happy
souls who pray”&c. Prayer by Sister
Mary A. Lambert. Continued by singing
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."
Minutes of the last meeting read and ap-
proved. Minutes of the Annual Meeting
of the Primary of the 17th Ward, read by
Mabel Davis.
	President M. I. Horne said she had been
highly edified by hearing the minutes of
the Primary. Thought we had all been
instructed by them. Said we had a religion
that we should practice every day of our
lives. It was not enough to believe, but
that we should put in practice that belief
thought there was much had been done at
our late Conference. Business had crowded
so that she could not hardly get through
with it, and a little item now of business
that she had intended to bring before the
Conference was forgotten. She then stated
that so many of the sisters were working in
the Temple and she needed help, in visiting
the different branches and in other things
had talked to the sisters and to President
Zina D. H. Young, and had decided to call
to her aid. Sister Julia C. Howe and
Lydia D. Alder and said “We will put
them before our next Conference. They
have already traveled some, and al-
ways been ready and willing.”
	The motion to sustain these sisters as
aids to President Horne, was then put by
Counselor E. Stevenson. The vote was
unanimous. President Horne read a note
from the Salt Lake Temple Lithographing
Co. making a proposition to the Relief
Society to sell the picture of the Temple on
commission. President Horne thought the
offer a very fair one, and as we had three
months in which to canvas, thought we
might get some means for the poor in this
way. Ten Relief Society Presidents, who
were present agreed to try and do the best
they could in their respective Wards.
President Horne then called on Sister Julia
C. Howe to state how she felt concerning
the call to aid her.
	Sister Howe said, “I believe it is
customary for the brethren to express their
feelings in such cases, and thought it was
right so to do, I always felt that I did not
wish to be a drone in the hive of Deseret.
	My experience has taught me that it is-
not the mighty or educated alone who can
do the most good, but those who are will-
ing to be laborers in the vineyard. I feel to
sustain all those who are called to instruct
and go from place to place. I bear my
testimony to the good done in these meet-
ings, and much will be required of those
who have these opportunities of instruction.
I feel that this duty to which I am called
will be a pleasure, and desire to do all I
can. Sister Howe also spoke on Charity,
explained its meaning, and gave other
good instructions.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, being next called
said, “I feel my weakness as I stand before
you sisters, yet my desire is to do all the good
I can, and help to build up God’s Church
and Kingdom on the earth. I believe I
live my religion better than ever I did, al-


[Column 2]
so appreciate the Book of Mormon more
than ever. Read it my sisters, its beautiful
testimony of the Savior to come, and
after he came on earth, and so many other
beautiful things will help you bear your
darkest hour. I have been promised that
I should meet my Saviour in our glorious
Temple that he would take me by the hand
and tell me why I have had to walk the
thorny pathway why I had such great sor-
rows, and shed so many bitter tears. Also that
He will own me and bless me. This is the
glorious day that I am living for’ let us all
strive sisters and keep these great blessings
in view. My life is on the altar, and after
my family are raised I have been promised
that I should do a great work, I feel to
respond to the call President Horne has
made upon me, and will do all I can to
assist her, and God’s work in the earth;
bore her testimony to the same.
	Sister Gardner of Pine Valley said,
“I was born and raised in this Church, and
desire to do good while I live upon the
earth. Spoke of a promise that had been
given her,when a babe in her father’s arms
namely that she would live to see the com-
ing of the Redeemer, gave an account of
the different organizations in Pine Valley,
bore a faithful testimony to the work in
which we are engaged and desired to be
faithful to the end.
	Sister Hudson of Spring City also bore
her testimony, Sister M. Y. Dougall spoke
on Charity, said it was the love we bore
the human family, urged the sisters to
strive for the spirit of the Lord, and be
faithful in all our callings and especially be
constant in our prayers, desired that we might
all meet in the celestial Kingdom.
	Sister Mary Silver and a sister in the
congregation were thankful that they
were members of the Church and desired
to do good.
	President Horne then asked the sisters if
they had not received good and been blest
in these meetings. “Here our spirits
are fed, and feel a refreshing from the Lord.
Joseph Smith was a great and a chosen
prophet. I am glad that I knew him, and
heard his voice. I rejoice that I live in
this dispensation, when so much has been
revealed and so much more is to be revealed,
I have been reading over my Patriarchial
blessings, for I have been so tried and beset
this year. I find that each one tells me,
that Satan has desired to sift me, and hedge
up my way, but I am promised that I shall
conquer that in so much as I had em-
braced the Gospel with an honest heart, if
sto[-]d true to my convictions, I should be
brought safe through; I have had so many
trials this year but I have been promised to
over come.
	Jesus said to those who overcome, he
would give them to sit down in his Father’s
kingdom, I feel that the last year has been
such an eventful one in our history. God
is working in His own way and time, I
think soon we shall see a great crisis.
	President Horne spoke of the good done at
the World’s Fair, of the Congress of women,
the visit of the choir, and many other
things, and closed by wishing us all a
Happy New Year, and adding her blessing
to all the sisters.
	Sisters Kiddle, Palmer, Price and Jane
James each spoke of the good received at
these meetings.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks
Sang “Satan’s Empire long has flourished
Benediction by Counselor E. Stevenson.
				L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE U. W. P. Club met at Dr. E. R.
Shipp’s office Dec. 30th, 1893. President
E. R. Shipp in the chair. Prayer was of-
fered by Mrs. Phebe C. Young, and
minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved. The roll was called, members
answering to their names by giving the
name of a Poet and his masterpiece, and a
quotation from the same. President E. B.
Wells named the Poet Tennyson, and gave
quotations from “In Memoriam,” and
“The Brook.” President E. R. Shipp gave
a quotation from Longfellow’s “Hiawatha”
and Mrs. R. M. Fox from Burns “Prayer.”
Mrs. Phebe C. Young gave the name of
the Poet Willis, and a quotation from
“Absalom.” Mrs. C. C. R. Wells from
O. F. Whitney’s “Poet’s Prayer.” Mrs.
Lucy Clark gave a verse from Eliza R.
Snow’s “O my Father.” Mrs. Ella W.
Hyde’s selection was from J. G. Holland’s
“Tribute to Woman,” from Katrina. Mrs.
M. E. Shipp gave a quotation from
“Hiawatha,” and Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox from
George Elliot’s “Daniel Deronda.” After
which, Mrs. Phebe C. Young gave an
interesting account of the first Thanksgiv-
ing held in New England. Governor
Winston issued the proclamation on ac-
count of the destitution of the people at
that time, and the relief that came, on the
arrival of the May Flower. An instrument-
al selection was beautifully rendered by
Miss Olea Shipp. Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox and
Mrs. C. C. R. Wells made some remarks,
continuing the subject of Thanksgiving,
and spoke upon the present situation. Mrs.
R. M. Fox recited the poem “A Woman’s
Question” from Elizabeth Browning. Mrs.
Anderson from Provo sang very sweetly,
“Life’s Lesson.” Mesdames Lucy Clark
and M. E. Shipp gave interesting accounts
of their trip to the World’s Fair. “The
Famine,” from Longfellow’s “Hiawatha,”
was read in a very pleasing manner by
Miss Ellis Shipp. A letter was read from
Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh, expressing re-
gards to the club, and good wishes for the
coming year.
	In consequence of the absence of several
of the members, on account of the
political meeting being held on that evening
it was decided that the program for the
next meeting would be the same that was
arranged for the last meeting, as it had not
been carried out, with the addition of an
account, by President E. B. Wells, of her
visit to Whittier, and a recitation by Mrs.
Nellie C. Taylor. Meeting adjourned for
one month. Benediction by Mrs. Lizzie
Wilcox. Refreshments were served, and
the usual pleasant chat followed, during
which time Miss Olea Shipp favored the
club with music.
ELLA W. HYDE, Asst. Rec. Secy.


PARTY AT SANDY.
	Thursday evening at eight, Dec. 14th.
A very pleasant party met at the Ward-
house, in honor to our President of the
Relief Society Mrs. W. Olsen, before her
leaving for a short time, to visit relatives
and friends at Grantsville. Those as-
sembled were members of the Society,
with Bishop Jensen and Counselors and
other friends. A purse was presented to
her with a sum over $20.00 given by the
society members. She felt very happy for


the honor bestowed upon her. The even-
ing was well spent in speeches and dancing.
	Refreshments consisting of many
delicacies were served to the guests, by the
young ladies present, and a general good
feeling animated all.
		HARRIET WILSON, First Coun.
		HILDA LARSON, Secretary.


A few verses were composed and read on
the occasion by Hilda Larson, which in
substance presented the good wishes and
tender affection of the sisters towards their
beloved President and also in appreciation
of the good work conscientiously performed
by her since she had presided over the
Society, and desiring that she might still
stand at the head of that organization and
the Society prosper and each one, officers
and members might affectionately labor to-
gether in love unitedly for the best and
highest good of all in deeds of charity and
benevolence.—Ed.


[Column 1]
THE RECONSTRUCTION OF THE
GOVERNMENT.

	ON the day of General Lee’s surrender,
referred to in the last paper, President
Lincoln, who had been in the vicinity of
Richmond, returned to Washington and on
the 11th of April, 1865, he issued a
proclamation demanding for U. S. vessels
in foreign ports those privileges and
immunities which had been denied them
during the war, on the plea of giving equal
belligerent rights to the Republic and her
internal enemies. And on the day follow-
ing an order was issued from the War
Department stopping all drafting of recruits
for the National army and the purchasing
of munitions and war supplies, thus
making a move towards the speedy renewal
of interrupted commerce, and a restoration
of peace. The people of the nation,
rejoicing that the war was ended, began
making preparations for a grand National
Thanksgiving, when suddenly the alarm-
ing news was telegraphed over the country
that the President had been assassinated in
a theatre in Washington, by an actor
named John Wilkes Booth, on the 14th of
April, 1865; the murderer, after shooting
the President, jumped on the stage and
shouted “The South is avenged,” escaped
through a back door and fled into Virginia.
He was overtaken below Fredericksburg
and refusing to surrender, was shot by
Sergeant  Boston Corbett. President
Lincoln died on the morning of the 15th.”
His body was taken to his home in Spring-
field, Ill., and buried with all due honors.
Six hours after his death, Andrew Johnson,
the Vice-President, took the oath of office as
President of the United States, which was
administered by Chief Justice Chase. It
was believed by many that the assassina-
tion of the President was only part of a
deep laid scheme to murder the members of
the Cabinet, General Grant and other
prominent Republicans, as on the same
evening a murderous assault was made up-
on Secretary Seward by an ex-Confederate
soldier. It was a night of horrors at the
capital, and President Johnson and Mr.
Hunter, the Assistant Secretary of State,
issued a proclamation declaring that a
conspiracy had been formed by Jefferson
Davis and many other rebels and traitors
against the goverment for the assassination
of the President and Secretary of State, and
offering a reward of $25,000 a piece for their

[Column 2]
arrest. But though Davis and others were
afterwards captured no punishment wa
ever inflicted upon them. Let it be record-
ed to the honor of the American nation or
the victorious party in the Civil War that
though they came off conquerors, they
manifested no disposition to put their foot
on the neck of the vanquished and keep it
there, but from the first surrender of
General Lee, and all through the work of
reconstruction of the government, they
manifested a desire to be charitable and to
establish peaceable and friendly relations
between the two parties. Altho’ it was
necessary for several years, until the work
of reconstruction was finished, to keep the
South under military law. The severest
punishment inflicted upon the South was
the giving of the elective franchise to the
colored population, making them equal
with their former masters.
	It has been said that the Civil War of
America was more extended in area and
more destructive of life and property, than
any other recorded in history. It is
estimated that one million men were
sacrificed, that the burden of the nation in
loss and debt was $6,000,000,000, and that
it gave freedom to about 4,000,000 slaves.
After the terrible convulsions produced by
the war, the powers of the government
took steps to bring about a reorganization,
political, social and industrial.
	It was a critical period of the nation’s
history, and required a master mind to
stand at the head. It was not long before the
people became convinced that those neces-
sary elements of character to bring about
the results desired were not possessed by
President Johnson; indeed his administra-
tion forms a lamentable page in our nation’s
history. Almost immediately after taking
the reins of government he took issue with
Congress, usurped its authority, and showed
conclusively that though he had been
elected Vice-President by the Republican
party, his sympathies were with the South,
and he worked and ruled in the interests of
the Confederates. Early in the year 1865,
Congress adopted the XIII amendment to
the Constitution, which was as follows:
“Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude,
except as a punishment for crime, whereof
the party shall have been duly convicted,
shall exist within the United States, or any
place subject to their jurisdiction,”
The President opposed this, his plan being
to restore to the Confederate States their
former position in the Union, without any
provision for securing to the freedmen the
right to the exercise of citizenship, and he
labored secretly and underhandedly for
that object. It was well for the nation that
there were many loyal, honest and de-
termined men in the Congress who would
stand firm to their convictions of justice
and right, notwithstanding the President’s
opposition. Measures had been going on
for perfecting peaceful relations among the
whole people of the Republic, but it
made very unsatisfactory progress, as the
President would veto nearly every bill
passed by Congress, and they would then
reconsider it and pass it over his veto, by a
two-thirds majority. Matters even went so
far that there was a convention held at
Philadelphia on the 14th of August, 1866, 
of the insurrectionists, their object being to
form a new party, with President Johnson
as their leader; but there was such a discor-
dant element there that the scheme utterly
failed. Soon after that another convention
was held composed of loyal men from the


South and representative men from the
north. These men supported the measure
adopted by Congress, and succeeded in un-
doing much of the mischief done by the
President and former convention. In the
spring of 1868 the President’s conduct be-
came so disgraceful that he was finally im-
peached of high crimes and misdemeanors,
and he was ordered to answer the impeach-
ment. On the 30th of March 1868, the
trial was begun, and owing to many wise
men of the Senate counseling moderation,
the President was acquitted by one vote.
	The forgoing items have been gleaned from
histories written by northern men, and pos-
sibly they have exaggerated Prest. Johnson’s
actions, he being born a southerner, had
naturally greater sympathy with the
southern party than Congress, which was
composed of northern men, could have.
	In 1867, the peninsula of Alaska was
purchased from Russia for $7,200,000.
The value of General Grant’s military
services in behalf of the Republic and his
patriotism in assisting to defeat the designs
of President Johnson at the Capital had
won the confidence of the loyal people, and
in June 1868, the Republican National Con-
vention at Chicago, nominated him for
President of the United States, with
Schuyler Colfax as Vice Presideut; and they
were elected by an overwhelming majority
in November.
		[To be Continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN  IMPORTANT  MEETING.

	AN assembly of women under the aus-
pices of the Woman Suffrage association is
to take place at the Fourteenth ward hall on
Saturday, February 3, 1894, at 3 o’clock
p. m.
	There will be brief speeches from some
of the most eminent ladies and gentlemen
of the Territory, intermingled with songs,
recitation, etc. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
Hon. J. E. Booth, Mrs. Emily S. Richards
and others will take part. All are invited to
attend.
		MARY WELLS,
		Chairman Pub. Com.


WOMAN’S RIGHTS.

	AS wives and mother’s have they any? Oh
yes. Innumerable rights. Thousands of
them have rights in the kitchen, at the
wash-tub, at the sewing machine, and num-
berless other rights. Is it right it should
be so? Certainly. But should her rights
end there? No. Does she need no change
from the monotonous round of her daily
tasks? There may be some few (though it
is doubtful) who feel satisfied with this
never ending round, while many long and
crave for something more, higher, intellec-
ual. They do not feel that time is lost by
an hour or two of reading, or attending a
lecture, but rather that they had gained
something. Women throughout the world
have cause to rejoice for a new era has
dawned, for her an epoch been added.
What advancement woman has made in the
past twenty years, and in the future twenty,
what may she not accomplish? If the
younger generation follow in the footsteps
of the many noble leading women of today,
the earth will be revolutionized. Women
will not be the dependent beings they are
at the present time, for they will be fitted
to fill all honorable positions that their sex


will allow them to occupy. Consequently
society will be improved. There will be
fewer fallen women, less saloons, and man,
that all important mortal, will have begun
to realize that women can maintain their
own rights, morally, socially; and politic-
ally.
	E. H. LYON.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Salt Lake Lithographing Company
have presented to the WOMANS EXPONENT
a handsome picture of the Temple and
grounds neatly and appropriately framed,
which we consider a very pretty compli-
ment and a valuable gift. It has been
greatly admired by our visitors both stran-
gers and residents of the Territory. The
company have our sincere thanks for the
acceptable addition to the picture exhibit of
this office.

	THE historical silk map of the United
States which was made by Kate D. Barron
Buck of this City and which received merit-
ed praise, and took a medal, when ex-
hibited in the Woman’s Building at the
World’s Fair, has been photographed and
we have received a complimentary copy, at
this office; the map will be on exhibition at
the Midwinter Fair. The map is made of
silk from the dresses of the wives of the
respective Governors of the several States
and Territories. The District of Columbia
is a piece presented by the late Mrs. Harri-
son of the White House. It is a very in-
genious piece of needle work and quite
perfect in the outline and boundary of the
country, and each of its several States and
Territories as well as rivers etc.

	WE have on hand Relief Society Reports
from Davis, Box Elder, Bear Lake and Sanpete
and some other similar reports of meetings,
and will use them if possible; but our next
issue will contain special matter suitable to
send for distribution at the Midwinter Fair
in San Francisco. The ladies of the
World’s Fair Committee will be at the ex-
pense of one thousand extra copies. There
will be an article on the silk industry in
Utah by Margaret A. Caine, and one on
the music of Utah by Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, also upon the Drama, a fine poem by
Lu Dalton, and other special articles, there-
fore we ask our patrons to have patience
and wait for the general association items
and reports etc. We hope to make a good
representation at the Midwinter Fair with
the books and papers of Utah women, and
especially of the silk enterprise. Mrs.
Caine who had charge of the silk exhibit
in Chicago will have entire charge of the
woman’s department in the Utah Exhibit
in San Francisco, and the women of the
Territory may have perfect confidence in her
ability and management of the matter.
She has been appointed for the position on
account of her familiarity with the silk
industry, and the executive ability she has
shown in her work, through the entire
work for the Fair, and and she received
encomiums of praise and manifestations of
esteem from the ladies in the Woman’s
Building at Jackson Park, where the silk
exhibit was located, and she was warmly
commended by the President of the Board
of Lady Managers Mrs. Bertha Honore
Palmer. Mrs. Caine will probably leave
for San Francisco by the 7th of February.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	HE hath riches sufficient who hath
enough to be charitable.—Sir T. Brown.
	MY thoughts are my own possessions;
my acts may be limited by my country’s
laws —G. Foster.
	THE Scottish Labor Party, held a confer-
ence in London, Jan. 2, at which a resolu-
tion approving woman suffrage was adopted.
	IN Crittenden, Ky., a Republican county,
Miss Mina Wheeler has been elected School
Superintendent, defeating Geo. Perry,
Republican, by a majority of two votes.
	THE Committee on Dress of the National
Council of Women has lately been
strengthened by the addition of Miss Laura
Lee, of Massachusetts; Mrs. Bertha Mor-
ris Smith, of New York; and Mrs. Annie
L. Sloane, of California.
	ALEXANDER CAMPBELL said “We test
the religion, the morality, the prosperity,
the happiness, of every nation and people
by the question—how stands woman
amongst them?”
	LADY HENRY SOMERSET has been hold-
ing meetings in North Wales, where the
British Women’s Temperance Association
was practically unknown before. She has
had immense audiences.
	MISS ANTHONY, who addressed a Buffalo
audience 41 years ago on woman suffrage,
was a welcome speaker on the occasion of a 
grand suffrage rally Jan. 10th in Concert
Hall.
	THE Towoomba Chronicle of recent date
says that a deputation from the Woman’s
Suffrage Society of South Australia, visited
the Premier at Adelaide and he promised
that the government would do all in their
power to place on the Statute book a law
giving the franchise to women in such form
as the women desire it.
	GOV. WAITE, of Colorado, has promptly
appointed six women as notaries public.
They are Ada J. Coan, Ida Dannenfield
and Etta Cunningham, of Pueblo; Lillian
E. McNircher and Ellen C. White, of
Denver, and Minta C. White, of Del
Norte.
	THE Midwinter Fair Executive Gom-
mittee has made abundant provision for the
weary, and seats will be easily obtained.
Over a thousand benches will be placed
about the grounds, and nearly a thousand
chairs will be furnished for use in the
different buildings.
	A VIGOROUS effort was made in Waltham,
Mass., to elect a woman on the school
board. Mrs. Hudson secured the signa-
tures of fifty legal voters to nomination
papers for Miss Sarah Osborn, and Miss
Osborn received over 700 votes, although
she was not elected. The women will try
again next year, and hope to succeed.
	ENGLISH correspondence states that Mr.
Gladstone in consequence of the victory of
the woman suffrage supporters in relation
to the Parish Councils bill, is now compelled
to introduce a measure giving to married
women the vote now exercised by widows
and spinsters in all municipal elections,
parish, district and county Councils, boards
of guardians and all the machinery of local
government.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CORRESPONDENT of the Methodist
Advocate says: “I am in full sympathy
with our church government in every
particular, except that it does not prohibit
our ministers using tobacco. Am I too
harsh? If so, it is because I have seen so
much of the evil thing at this large as-
sembly of ministers. I do believe the
wheels of our Zion are clogged with old
tobacco worms, smoke and embers. I wish
I had not mentioned this, but I cannot write
without speaking os it. I am so troubled
and ashamed of it among our preachers.
I feel that they are actually against us
mothers who are trying to teach our boys
to not use it.”
	MISS MARCIA P. BROWN, formerly prin-
cipal of the Maplewood School, in Malden,
Mass., came home last September, from a
five years’ absence in Brazil. She was ap-
pointed by the Brazilian Government to
examine the school exhibition at the
World’s Fair and to inquire thoroughly in-
to the workings of the school systems in
the United States, Germany, France and
Portugal. The purpose of the Brazilian
government is to institute a model system
of schools in Rio San Paula. Miss Brown
is a member of the State Board of educa-
tion of San Paula, the only lady that has
ever served on the committee. She is the
principal of the teachers in the training
school at San Paula, appointed by the
Government when Brazil became a republic
in 1889, and while she was interested in
missionary work. After two years she
gave the missionary work up, and accepted
the position at the training schools, which
she still fills.


A SAD DEATH.

Dear Sister E. B. Wells:

	OUR newly organized Stake of Wayne Co. is
now caused to mourn, for one of its bright
active officers, Florence M. Williams, daughter of
Mary Coleman and Sylvester Williams and
grandaughter of our esteemed Stake President,
of Relief Society, Jane S. Coleman; she departed
this life Nov. 17 1893, of typhoid fever, aged 15
years one month and seven days. The circum-
stances connected with her death make it sad
indeed. Her father has been dead something
over a year, and at the time of her death, her
mother and four of her brothers and sisters
were very low with the same fever, besides bury-
ing her brother George a little over two weeks
before she was taken sick. She prayed earnestly
that her life might be spared, and desired the
brethren, when a special fast was called for the
family, to pray specially for her that she might
live, to comfort her mother, and help raise her
brothers and sisters. She had great faith in the
Priesthood, the Elders remaining by her side for
several days administering, and for her comfort,
but she was called to finish her mission in the
spirit world she had so nobly begun on earth.
	She was always willing and ready to do every-
thing required of her, and so bright and cheerful
about it, that it was a pleasure to see her, indeed
she was a choice spirit sent to elevate and refine
all those with whom she associated. From time
to time she was promoted to higher callings she
never forsook the primary, but always attended,
assisted in singing, making programmes etc.
bringing rays of sunshine with her presence.
For some years she was secretary of the Sunday
School, also assisted in keeping the Ward record
was counselor to the Y. L. M. I. A., and last May
was promoted to Stake Secretary to the 
Presidency of Relief Society and though young
was competent in every respect; the spirituality
of her nature being highly developed. With the
presidency of the Relief Society visited every
settlement in the Stake, doing her part in the
organizing of new branches, as well as those
already organized. I thought while on that trip,
as her pencil would fly over the paper, surely
President Coleman was inspired to choose her
for she would be a power in Zion some day, and
so she will, with the knowledge she gained while


on earth, and the perform of her duties in the
spirit world, where no weak flesh will bar her
progress, her powers of righteousness will be
felt by all those who have the happy privilege of
associating with her, “Sweet is the death of the
righteous.”

	Weep not for her who has gone before,
	For she loved you all so dear,
	Her life was short, but her record great
	For one so young in years.

	Florence has left us but is not dead
	For the righteous, death shall not taste
	Surely that life was a righteous one,
	Who sought all to save ere ’twas to late.

	I would that all who’s summons came,
	Were as well prepared to go, 
	Whose mission was so near complete
	Whose name was spotless like the snow
***
	Safe beyond the powers of Satan
	Free from suffering sin and woe; 
	Yet prepared to dwell with Angels
	Will assist in saving those below.

	JANE S. COLEMAN, President.
	MARY E. HANKS,
	SARAH FORSYTHE

[To the right of "MARY E. HANKS" and "SARAH FORSYTH": {Counselors.]

Teasdale Utah, Dec. 8th, 1893.


IN MEMORIAM

	Died October 31, in Ogden, Utah, of dropsy
Sister Maria L. B. Goodale, widow of the late
Elder Isaac N. Goodale, aged 65 years four
months and eight days. Deceased was born in
Littleton, Grafton, Co., New Hampshire on the
23, of June 1828. In 1836 she with her parents
removed to Far West, Mo., and in 1837 she
was baptized into the church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints, thus sharing in all the drivings
and persecutions to which the church was sub-
jected. She arrived in Salt Lake City September
19, 1847. On January 17, 1849 she was united in
marriage with Isaac N. Goodale, and in 1883 she
with her husband removed to Weber Co. and
settled in Ogden City.
	She was the mother of thirteen children, four of
whom, with her husband, have preceded her to
the spirit world.
	She was a faithful wife and loving mother and
a friend to the poor and needy, many of whom
have great cause to cherish her memory for the
service she has rendered them.
	She joined the Fourth Ward Relief Society at its
organization which took place January 18, 1879
and was at that time called to be a teacher of the
same, which office she faithfully filled until June
27, 1888 when she was chosen second counselor
in the society, which position she also honorably
filled till death removed her from our midst and
she was called by our Heavenly Father to more
extended usefulness in a higher sphere.

	Farewell dear sister! thou art gone
	From earth with all its strife;
	Thy labors ended. Rest in Peace;
	Thou hast won Eternal Life.

	Resolved, that while we feel the deepest sorrow
in the loss of our member, yet we know that our
loss is her gain, and we therefore bow submissively
to the will, of him who doeth all things well,
and say “Thy will O Lord, not ours be done.”
	Resolved, that we cherish her memory, emulate
her virtues and strive to carry out in our lives
her motherly counsels, which were so wise in
temporal as well as spiritual things.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family, especially to the
daughters, who so lovingly tended their mother
during her months of sickness, and who still need
that counsel which a mother alone can give; that
one copy of these resolutions be presented to
them, and a copy be entered on the record of our
Society and a copy be sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication.
	MARIANNA STRATFORD, President,
	NELLIE BEECROFT, Secretary.


OBITUARIES.

	ANE ELIZABETH JENSEN PETERSON was born
in Haien Veile Denmark, September 28, 1819.
	She was baptized Oct. 7, 1860. In ’62 emigrated
to Utah and has ever been a faithful Latter-day
Saint She died December 5, 1893.
	Sister Peterson was put in as a teacher in the
Relief Society at Ephriam shortly after its
organization and held that position until her
death. She began the silk work industry in 1875,


and was very zealous and took great interest in
it, although she labored under great disadvant-
ages, she produced some of the finest cocoons in
Utah. For about 41 years she was unable to lie
down to rest and was obliged to use crutches for
15 years, when in 1888 she went to the Manti
Temple and received blessings therein and from
that time discarded her crutches and could lie
down and enjoy her rest. She was a woman of
great faith, no sacrifice was thought too much
for the kingdom.
	S. A. PETERSON.


AGNES SMITH ARMSTRONG was born in Car-
lisle, England in the year 1818. Joined the Church
in 1836, was married in 1843 to William Arm-
strong. In 1848 she with her husband and two
children emigrated to America, locating in St.
Louis, Mo., at this place she buried her husband
and four children. In 1855 she came to Utah
locating in Salt Lake City until 1858, she came
to Ephraim, Sanpete Co, where she resided until
the time of her death, which occured Dec. 9th
1893. She leaves three children and eleven
grandchildren.
	Mother worked hard to support herself and
children teaching school for over twenty years.
When the Relief Society was organized in 1869,
she was chosen secretary, which place she
occupied until the time of her death; for the
Society she worked with an energy and faithful-
ness which is a credit to her memory. Mother
had many friends, but those who knew her best
loved her most.	Sincerely.
	HELEN E. ARMSTRONG.


“Do our sons in the law schools rise from
their studies of the invidious statutes and
opinions of jurists in regard to women with
a higher respect for their mothers? By no
means. Every line of the old common law
of England on which the American system
of jurisprudence is based, touching the in-
terests of women, is, in a measure, respon-
sible for the wrongs she suffers today.”
	THE Roman Catholic college of St.
Francis Xavier has just opened its doors to
women.


DUNFORD’S
Will sell you any Shoe in their Mammoth Store at actual
FACTORY COST PRICE.
Commencing Monday, January 29th and continuing for
30 days.
DON'T MISS THIS SALE.
57 SOUTH MAIN ST.
R. K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS
Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
ons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty
NO. 41 S. WEST TEMPLE STREET
Opp. Grant Bros. Stables.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 

[Written in right margin]
84

