	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)

	We never dreamed, when commencing
those little prayer meetings—coming together
so frequently and enjoying the outpourings of
the Holy Spirit—of having to meet and con-
tend with the opposite; but so it was. The
love and union that prevailed seemed to enrage
the evil one, and, not being able to cause a
division among us, he vented his wrath upon the
little ones.
	At one of the meetings which I attended at
Sister Presendia's, there was a powerful mani-
festation of the Holy Spirit, and many comfort-
ing words were uttered, and prophecies of
blessings which it was our privilege to obtain,
if we would unite in fasting and prayer.
	Previous to this the merchants, Davis and
Kimball, who rented one of my mother's rooms,
having sold out their stock, had gone back to
Nauvoo, and her house was the place appointed
by the voice of the Spirit to hold the fast
meeting, and the great blessing to be gained
thereby was the administration of an angel or
angels. I had a promise that day that I 
should be healed by the power of God. Up


[Column 1]

to this time I had remained feeble and unable
to sit up but little, or to walk to a neighbor's
without having to lie down, and this I desired
more than anything else of a temporal nature.
In obedience to that spirit Mother Whitney,
her daughter, Sarah Ann, Sisters Louisa Pit-
kin, Presendia Buel, Sarah Lawrence, Frances
Swan, Harriet Sanders, Persis Young and
two or three others who were there, all being
my father's wives but Sister Persis and Mother-
Whitney, met the next morning without eating
or drinking. But no sooner had we begun to
offer up our united prayers than the devil
commenced his operations on the three little
ones that were there, mother's Brigham and
her little babe, and Sarah Ann's son, who was
born on the journey from Nauvoo. It would
be one and then the other. The eldest was
playing in the room adjoining, and without
any known cause, he commenced screaming;
floundering and going into the most frightful
contortions, which obliged us to stop and ad-
minister to him and rebuke that spirit in the
name of Jesus, when the child quieted down
and went to sleep. We had no sooner begun
again to seek in prayer for the promised bless-
ing, than we were again interrupted by my
mother's babe screaming, and it had lain sleep-
ing peacefully till then. He was operated up-
on in a similar manner to the other, so we were
under the necessity of again stopping to ad-
minister to him, when he was immediately re-
lieved, and went to sleep. But just as soon as
we commenced again to struggle for the bless-
ing that had been promised, the third one was
seized, and this continued through the day, and
every time the evil spirits were rebuked by
the power of the priesthood, which had been
conferred upon us in the house of God in con-
nection with our husbands. This only
stimulated us to persevere, and that wrestle
continued between the two powers, each seeking
the supremacy, till finally we became satisfied
that we would have to part with one of those
little ones before we could obtain the coveted
blessing. Therefore, when the day was nearly
spent, and we had witnessed the workings of
the two powers—one just in proportion to the
other—the mothers concluded to call Bishop
Whitney and relate this day's experience and
leave the dicision with him, whether or not we
had been directed by the right spirit. We
broke our fast, and the Bishop came about
dusk and spent the best portion of the night
in answering questions and explaining doctrines
and things which the sisters had never before
understood. He had previously expressed
some fears that the sisters might be out of the
way, seeing them meet together so often, but
he changed his mind, for he was filled with
the Holy Spirit the moment he entered the
house. His mind was clear and like a foun-
tain, and we only had to ask and receive, for
our faith was such that it would take no denial.
He told us that we were nearer obtaining what
we had sought for, and the Lord was nearer
than we had any idea of and that our desires
would have been realized had we given up one
of those children. He said it was only through
similar struggles that any great manifestations
from on high were ever obtained. There were
things that he uttered that night that he did
not know of himself, but by the Spirit some
choice truths were revealed through him, and
they were of a most consoling nature to women,
particularly to those who were making a will-
ing sacrifice in helping their husbands to accom-
plish the great and mighty purposes which the
Lord had commanded them to do, and they
were promised that eventually all that were
true and faithful would enjoy all that their
hearts desired, or could conceive of; their trials
and sufferings here would be swallowed up in
the glory they had attained to through obedi-
ence, and they would be enthroned and reign
as queens in the presence of God, eternities
without end.

[Column 2]

	I, being very weary and sad in spirit at the
close of the day, had lain down, and I fell
asleep while he was talking. I was quite
young, and not having been healed as I had
been told I should be, my faith was consider-
ably shaken; but the things I heard Father
Whitney say before I dropped to sleep com-
forted me to that degree that I forgot my
disappointment in the hope of that happiness
which I believed would be mine, in connection
with those I loved, in a day to come.
	Sister Persis Young came early the next
morning, saying that she had been impressed
by the Spirit to come and administer to me,
and I would be healed; that she could not
sleep, and she had come there in obedience to
that Spirit. She had been so long under its
influence that she shook as though palsied
when she laid her hands upon my head with
my mother. She rebuked my weakness, and
every disease that had been, or was then afflict-
ing me, and commanded me to be made whole,
pronouncing health and many other blessings
upon me, nearly all of which have been literal-
ly fulfilled. From that morning I went about
to work as though nothing had been the mat-
ter. Thus did the Lord remember one of His
unworthy handmaidens and fulfill the promise
that had been given by the gift and power of
the Holy Ghost.
	The struggles that we had with evil spirits
were something similar to what the Prophet
Joseph Smith experienced in Far West,
Missouri. He said the devil contended with
him face to face, after he had afflicted his
little child, claiming that he had the best right
to that house which Joseph had purchased, it
having been previously occupied by some
wicked people. But he rebuked the devil in
the name of the Lord, and he had to leave the
house.
	My father also had some contests with evil
spirits when young in years, and also in experi-
ence. The Prophet once requested him to relate
those occurrences and the vision of evil spirits
in England on the opening of the Gospel to
that people. After doing so, he asked Joseph
what all those things meant, fearing there might
be something wrong in him. Joseph's answer
was: "No, Brother Heber; at that time, when
you were in England, you were nigh unto the
Lord, there was only a veil between you and
Him, but you could not see Him. When I
heard of it, it gave me great joy, for I then
knew the work of God had taken root in that
land. It was this that caused the devil to make
a struggle to kill you."
	Joseph then said the nearer a person ap-
proached to the Lord, the greater power would
be manifest by the devil to prevent the accom-
plishment of the purposes of God. He also
gave father an account of many contests that
he had had with Satan.
	These things I have written for the benafit
of my sisters, and I have more which I would
like to make known to them, if my life is
spared.


