WINTER.

	Winter at last is here in pomp and magnifi-
cence; it has ushered itself in. The beautiful
carpet of grass has been replaced by one of
pure white snow. Spring and Summer are
beautiful seasons, so likewise are Fall and
Winter.
	Who does not love, as in the evening they
are seated before a cosy fire, to hear the wild
winds of winter first coming like a low moan
ing whisper, then louder, shriller, and more
fierce, until it seems battling and waging war-
fare with some unknown power. As I have
gazed out into the darkness on such a night
as this my soul has seemed entranced with the
wild weird scene before me, and often, as I
have sat thus on a winter evening, the room
well lit, the bright fire throwing forth a ruddy
glow, Whittier's beautiful poem, "Snow Bound,"
was most forcibly brought to mind.
	Again, who does not love to view the trees
on a clear frosty morning; they stand forth
draped in their pure white robes of snow, and
glistening until one's eyes can hardly stand
the radiance. All, all in loveliness; it seems
that one can never tire feasting on the glories
and beauties that our Father has decorated this
mother earth with. I thank God that I have
been given an appreciative mind to enjoy all
this loveliness of nature.
	How many beautiful winter scenes of sweet
childhood are recalled to my mind. How
with eager haste, hood and mittens were
donned preparatory to skipping off to school,
snow sometimes even with the fence as spoken
of in "Snow Bound," would have a hard
crust over it, so that a passage over it was
perfectly safe. Then, too, there would be the
intermission between lessons, when sports, such
as snow-balling, skating on ice,or riding down-
hill on home-made sleds were enjoyed with
great hilarity and mrith, until the silvery
tinkling of the bell warning us that our time
for play was up, was heard by our unwilling
ears, then all would return with haste and con-
fusion to resume our lessons with glowing
cheeks, quick breath, and fast beating heart
from over exertion. All is so plain to my mind's
view I can almost imagine myself a child once
again.
	The winter brings its pleasures and we
should all try to have nothing to do with any
but such amusements as will ennoble and edify
us. Then again there is so much that mothers
can do to keep their children from mixing up
with pleasure that would be a source of evil to
them. Make home pleasant on winter eve-

[Column 2]

nings. That is one great remedy for keeping
our young from inculcating in their minds a
taste for walking the streets, a place
where either sex will surely meet with so-
ciety that is entirely unfit for children of
Latter-day Saints that are desirous of bring-
ing them up in the paths of righteousness and
truth. A sister, while taking me through her
house, after fall cleaning, for the purpose of
showing me her arrangements for the winter,
after entering the family sitting room said,
"this room I have fitted up neatly for my son
and daughter who work during the day, and
are fond of going out in the evening, especially
my son. I wished to do all I could to make it
so attractive for them that they would not
care to leave home to seek other society. This
sofa I have placed here in this cosy corner ex-
pressly for my son M—— to lounge on
after partaking of his supper, as he is
generally very tired. I have found after once
resorting to this cosy retreat, with book in
hand, with but few exceptions, by the time he
usually went his way down town, he really
seemed disinclined, I might say, (laughing)
too lazy and comfortable, hence his evenings
are really spent at home." What wonder! I
exclaimed, as I glanced around the room. Fac-
ing the south was a large bay window hand-
somely decorated with beautiful plants, some
large, airy and light. Two windows facing the
west were also well dressed with ivy and
other lovely plants. No dark heavy curtain
obstructed the light, but instead were those of
thin pure white texture. A beautiful fire-
place, a center table drawn up in close prox-
imity to the sofa well laden with choice read-
ing, chosen from the book case standing in the
corner. Many things passed through my mind
as I took all this in. I think this would be a
good lesson for all, as we are never too old to
learn. I wonder how many young boys and girls
could be seen on the streets at night, it all
adopted the rule of this sister mentioned above.
No matter how little we possess of worldly
goods we can make home attractive and
pleasant and the long winter evening is the
time when much good can be done.
	IDA.


