EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The young ladies of East Bountiful held
their first fair Oct. 28th, 29th and 30th, in the
Central School House. Through the courtesy
of Sister Jane Holt, the President, Sister
Wealthy Clark and I attended; we found it very
nice indeed. It reflected great credit on their
worthy President and her energetic Counselors,
and also on the members, in the arrangement
of the goods, and their responding with many
useful and pretty articles. You will find by
the appraising that they are taught by example
as well as precept. The example, well followed,
would reflect great credit on the young ladies
in general, and would show we were doing
something worthy the name we hold.
	The best hand sewing, a baby dress, finest
case of wool flowers, best door mat and the
handsomest hearth rug, Mrs. Jane Holt; a
lovely quilt, best, pieced by hand, Miss Etta
Burningham; best knitted quilt, Mrs. Hannah
Briggs; next best, Mrs. Emmerette Sessions;
beautiful embroidered table cover, Miss
Caroline Rampton; best knitted hose, Mrs.
Sarah C. Sessions; best embroidered under
skirt, Mrs. Annie Barlow; best wool flowers, on
velvet, Miss Effie Willey; best crochet under-
shirt for child, Mrs. Martha Willey; best
crochet lace, Miss Ada Smedley; best crochet
tidy, worthy of admiration, Mrs. Ellen Wood;
best netted tidy made, Mrs. Archer; best hooked
tidy, Catherine Rampton; a handsome crochet
baby hood, Emily Maynor; lovely netted neck-
tie, Mary F. Call; best silk handkerchief, silk
spun, Mary Waddington; best braided pillow
shams, Elizabeth Evans; handsome wool mat,
Mary Stablie; best artist work, with pen, also
scissors, Rachel Briggs; best painting, on vel-
vet, Margretta Call; best rag carpet, Esther
Sessions; best bottled pears and peaches, Jane


Holt; cherries, Sarah Sessions; Mrs. Rachel
Briggs raised the largest squash, weight 115
pounds; Mrs. Mary Briggs, best display of
cabbage, onions and celery. Judges—Ann
Dustin, Louisa Wood, Eliza Smedley and 
Katie Hollbrook.
	Miss E. W. SMITH.
Kaysville.


