THE EXECUTIVE THRUST.
					---
	On Monday, the 7th inst., upon the assembling at
the Capitol in Washington of the body of law-
makers composing the Forty-ninth Congress,
Grover Cleveland, President of the United States,
in pursuance of a constitutional duty, proceeded
to favor them, and at extreme length, with a recital
of the information at his command regarding the
state of the Union; and to give such recommenda-
tions as he deemed might be of service to them
and productive of good to the commonwealth.
The various political, diplomatic and financial
issues of the hour, consisting of such topics as
foreign affairs, commercial treaties, tariff regula-
tions, currency, domestic improvements, naval
affairs, the Indian and Mormon questions, and
civil service, were all met and dilated upon with a
zeal highly gratifying to His Excellency's partisans
and sympathizers, and equally obnoxious to those
of an opposite political persuasion. Passing over,
without comment, all that portion of the document
which is without special local interest, we furnish
space for the homily on the Mormon question, to
which the careful attention of our readers is di-
rected. Much had been hoped by our readers is di-
rected. Much had been hoped by the Federal
ring here and by our enemies generally, from the
first published suggestions of the new Chief
Magistrate upon the absorbing topic; and certain-
ly all such have cause to feel gratified at the some-
what liberal mention accorded it. A close perusal,
however, fails to reveal that venom and that un-
concealed hostility which the President's apparent
apathy had given some reason to expect. Here
are his remarks in full:--
	"In the Territory of Utah the law of the
United States passed for the suppression of poly-
gamy has been energetically and faithfully
executed during the past year with measurably
good results. A number of convictions have been
secured for unlawful cohabitation and in some
cases pleas of guilty have been entered and slight
punishment imposed upon a promise by the ac-
cused that they would not again offend against the
law, nor advise, counsel, aid or abet in any way
its violation by others. The Utah Commissioners
express opinions based upon such information as
they were able to obtain, that but few polygamous
marriages have taken place in the Territory during
the last year. They further report that while
there cannot be found upon the registration lists
of voters the name of a man actually guilty of
polygamy, and while none of that class are hold-
ing office, yet, at the last election in the Territory,
all the officers elected, except in one county, were
men who, though not actually living in the prac-
tice of polygamy, subscribed to the doctrine of
polygamous marriage, as a divine revelation and
a law unto all, higher and more binding upon the
conscience than any human law, local or national.
Thus is the strange spectacle presented of a com-
munity protected by a republican form of govern-
ment to which they owe allegiance, sustaining by
their suffrage a principle and a belief which sets
at naught that obligation of absolute obedience to
the law of the land, which lies at the foundation
of republican institutions. The strength, per-
petuity and the destiny of the nation rest upon
our homes, established by the law of God,
guarded by parental care, regulated by parental
authority and sanctified by parental love. These
are not the homes of polygamy. The mothers of
our land who rule the nation as they would the
characters, and guide the actions of their sons,
live according to God's holy ordinance, and each,
pure and happy in the exclusive love of the father
of her children, sheds the warm light of true
womanhood, unperverted and unpolluted, upon
all within her pure and wholesome family circle.
These are not the cheerless, crushed and un-
womanly mothers of polygamy. The fathers of
our families are the best citizens of our Republic;
wife and children are the sources of patriotism,
and conjugal and parental affection beget devo-
tion to the country. The man who undefiled with
plural marriage, is surrounded in his single home
with a wife and children, has a stake in the coun-
try which inspires with respect for its laws, and
courage for its defense. These are not the fathers
of polygamous families. There is no feature of
this practice or the system which sanctions it,
which is not opposed to all that is of value in our
institutions. There should be no relaxation in
the firm, but just execution of the law now in
operation, and I should be glad to approve such
further discreet legislation as will rid this country
of this blot upon its fame."
	To which may be added the following sentence,
published as part of the message in some of the
Eastern papers, but not transmitted, through some
inexplicable omission, to the Western press:
	"Since the people upholding polygamy in our
Territories are reinforced by immigration from
other lands, I recommend that a law be passed to
prevent the importation of Mormons into this
country."
	Some of the President's statements regarding
this "Mormon" matter, not only in the paragraphs
above quoted, but also in other published utter-
ances with which he is credited, it is easy to see
are based upon very unreliable information. For
instance, few will be found, even among the anti-
Mormons themselves, who regard the "energetic
enforcement" of the Edmunds law as having been
attended with "measurably good results." As
for those fair-minded, honorable inhabitants of
the Territory who have permanent interests at
stake or who desire the welfare of the country
and the return of the prosperity usually enjoyed,
they certainly do not realize the "good results"
spoken of. Neither do those who, because of a
tenet of religious faith, are compelled either to re-
nounce principles dearer than life and recede from
covenants more binding than anything human
can be,or find themselves subjected to the mockery
of a trial and the indignity of an imprisonment, or
seek self-preservation in absence from their homes
and all the endearments which the word implies.
And that the "faithful enforcement" and the
"good results" are not satisfactory even to the
band of conspirators who wish so devoutly our
entire destruction is shown with sufficient clear-
ness by the fact that new and more drastic reme-
dies are continually suggested and urged to cure
the evil they so piously and purely complain of.
Who, then, regards the results as measurably
good? More than this, the less said by the
Executive and government generally about the
manner of the enforcement of this obnoxious bill
the better. If the President can find any cause to
congratulate himself, Congress and the courts
that "in some cases pleas of guilty have been
entered and slight punishment imposed upon a
promise by the accused that they would not again
offend against the law, nor advise, counsel, aid or
abet in any way its violation by others," they
ought to be welcome to all the honor they can
make out of it. It is not a very creditable pro-
ceeding, from a legal standpoint, to impose a
punishment for something which may be done in
the future, while ignoring or passing over lightly
an equally grave offense already plead guilty to as
committed in the past. Nor would the tempting
of weaker men to violate their most solemn oaths,
with simple offers of immunity and friendship,
seem to merit any particular approval under any
circumstances. As to the correctness of the
opinions of the Utah Commissioners, whose
sources of information are so various and so con-
flicting, we have no means of deciding.
	Mr. Cleveland regards it a "strange spectacle"
that the "Mormons" should vote for and elect to
the offices within their gift, men whose religious
ideas and sympathies are identical with their own
--in other words that the people should place in
office men belonging to the People's party. We
wonder what His Excellency would expect! To
a Democrat elected by Democratic votes or to a
Republican elected by Republican votes there
should not be anything phenomenal in the fact
alluded to. To vote for one's friends instead of
one's enemies seems not only a prerogative, but a
duty, clear as noonday. In this the law of Con-
gress is not in any manner insulted, for the law
does not, and the Constitution declares that any
law shall not, interfere with or presume to dictate
in matters of belief.
	"Our homes, established by the law of God,
guarded by parental care, regulated by parental
authority and sanctified by parental love" are
none the less so that they are "the homes of
polygamy." "The cheerless, crushed and un-
womanly mothers" are not the mothers of "Mor-
mon" polygamy. No purer, happier, truer women
can be found than those in these valleys of the
mountains who "live according to God's holy or-
dinance" as revealed and testified to their hus-
bands and themselves; and not only from our own
past and present, but also from our future history
will the fact be demonstrated that the Republic
has and can have no better citizens than the
fathers of our families. We maintain and have
abundantly proven that there are many features
"of this practice" not opposed "to all that is of
value in our institutions." On all these points we,
who live in and are familiar with the system of
marriage so distasteful to American "civilization,"
beg the liberty of taking direct issue with the
Chief Executive, who knows absolutely nothing
about it, other than that which he has been told;
and we consider our statements, even without the
proof of which they are so easily susceptible,
better than his.
	In conclusion, President Cleveland expresses
his desire to approve further discreet legislation
on this subject, and suggests that there be no re-
laxation in the firm but just execution of the
present law--which one sentence is in fact about
the pith and substance of his message on the whole
question. It is, of course, to be regretted that
the Evarts scheme of prohibiting "Mormon" immi-
gration should have been resurrected and thus
dignified in so important a document as a Presi-
dent's message. The fact that the clause was not
telegraphed West with the body of the message
would almost indicate that somebody in the East
was ashamed of it.
	After all, though, the recommendations of the
President and the enactments of Congress, how-
ever favorable or inimical to us they may be, will
affect but slightly if at all the final result. The
Lord of Hosts, the Ruler of the whole Universe,
has certain designs to accomplish, and whatever
may occur will be found pointing toward their ac-
complishment. This far, at least, the Latter-day
Saints are believers in what is termed destiny;
and among the faithful--those who walk day by
day in the light of the spirit--there is no feeling


of uncertainty or fear as to the outcome of the
cause, with which, with greater or less whole-
heartedness, we have all identified ourselves.


