WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
		---------------------------
    ﻿RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
			    --------
   Synopsis of Minutes of R. S. Conference of
this Stake, held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall,
Dec. 11th, 1885; Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.
On the stand were Counselor E. S. Taylor and
H. M. Whitney, Secretary of R. S., Mrs. S.
Kimball, Secretary R. S. Salt Lake Stake,
Mrs. E. Howard, Treasurer, Mrs. B. W. Smith,
Cor. Secretary,Mrs. M. W. Wilcox, and several
branch presidents were seated on the platform.
After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs.
Rachel Whipple.  Continued by singing,
after which minutes were read and approved,
and presidents’ roll called; twenty-three presi-
dents, five counselors and one teacher respond-
ed, Mrs. Horne gave a few words of advice,
and then reports were given from the 1st, 2nd,

[Column 2]
5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 13th, 14th,
15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, Farm-
er’s, Sugar-House, Big Cottonwood, Draper,
Pleasant Green, Brighton, Riverton and
Granger wards.  After these reports were
given, Prest. Horne made some very earnest
remarks about the Hospital.
   Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.  Singing,
Doxology.  Benediction by Mrs. E. S. Taylor.

   Afternoon session:  After singing, prayer
was offered by Mrs. B. W. Smith.  Singing
again, after which the conference was addressed
by Prest. Horne, who introduced subjects of
great importance at the present day, and en-
treated the young people to be cautious in
choosing their associates, and warned them
against being out at night, and everything that
would tend to evil.  Spoke of the condition of
affairs in Utah, and repeated the quotation
from Scripture. "When the wicked reign the
people mourn." Thought it necessary that the
Saints should be purified, and felt sure that
“God was our Friend,” and made other interest-
ing remarks.
   Coun. E. S. Taylor referred to Bishop
Whitney’s sermon of last Sunday, and felt
thankful she had an opportunity of bearing
her testimony; thought we should gird on the
whole armor of salvation, and felt we could
trust in the Lord, etc.
   Coun. H. M. Whitney, in her remarks,
thought we would be brought into bondage be-
fore we could be delivered by the hand of God.
Said, "All that our enemies are doing is for the
furtherance of our Father’s work; iniquity will
be purged out, and we will have to become a
new people.”  Spoke of the carelessness of
some in attending meetings and receiving in-
structions.  Referred to her recent visit to
Millard Stake, and how the Lord had blsssed
her, although she went alone trusting in Him;
thought deliverance would come to the Saints
soon.
   Mrs. Elizabeth Yates, President of the Re-
lief Society of Millard Stake, made some very
interesting and instructive remarks; exhorted
the sisters to learn all in their power, and re-
minded them of the promises made to the
Saints, the gifts and blessings of the Gospel.
   Mrs. S. M. Kimball, in the course of her re-
marks, said, “Our strength lies in the spirit of
peace we cultivate, and I believe it is right to
pray for the government of this nation, that
its officers may be enlightened and do justice
to our people; the more wisdom we have from
God the greater will be our power; we are to
be disciplined and to be tested."
   Mrs. B. W. Smith said many good things;
realized that we could avoid many sorrows, if
we were watchful and humble, and tried to
cultivate love and peace at home and abroad.
   Mrs. E. Howard believed in short minutes
and in short speeches.  Prayed for President
Cleveland; favored cultivating a spirit of peace.
   Prest. Horne made closing remarks; exhorted
the sisters to pray for the President and
brethren in prison and in bonds; gave other
good instructions.
   Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah.”  Benediction by Mrs. Rebecca
Jones.


An Irish gentleman, having received an
invitation from a wealthy but not over-refined
lady, on arriving was ushered into her presence.
She was sitting in the library, surrounded by
gorgeously-bound books. “You see Mr. X.,”
she said, “I need never be lonely, for here I
sit, surrounded by my best friends.” Mr. X.
approached a shelf, and without replying, took
down a volume which he observed to be uncut,
and immediately observed, with a most genial
smile, "I am happy to find, Mrs. W., that, un-
like the majority of people, you do not cut
your friends."


