		HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
					Washington, D. C., Dec. 7.

   SIR.—Since our conversation this morning
additional sensational statements have been sent
from Omaha and Washington, and published
throughout the East, which are so false and such
outrageous misrepresentations of the facts in re-
gard to the actual situation in Utah that I am con-
strained to lay before you the truth.
	The adjutant general of the army apparently
authorizes the statement that "the Secretary of
the Interior and the Attorney General received
reports from the Governor, United States Marshal,
and other officials there, to the effect that the
disposition of the Mormons is quite offensive, that
demonstrations are being made of a threatening
character, and that the slightest accident is likely
to cause a riot in which the residences and offices
of the United States judges, district attorney and
other officials may be mobbed and perhaps per-
sonal violence attempted," etc., etc.
	You, sir, and your constitutional advisers have
been deceived by designing men who seek to
create in the East the impression that the Mormon
people are unruly and turbulent. The ordering
of additional troops to Utah is the result of a de-
liberate attempt on the part of the republican
United States officials there to create the impres-
sion that there is danger of a Mormon outbreak.
The object of this is, first, to make it difficult for
a democratic administration to remove the officials,
and second, to influence Congress to enact legisla-
tion in the interest of a desperate ring of adven-
turers who seek to control the government of the
Territory in spite of the fact that they constitute
an infinitesimal portion of the population and
have no interest in the material welfare of the
great bulk of the people.

[Column 2]
   The Mormons have been subjected to a sys-
tematic attempt to goad them to a hostile act.
The Federal judiciary has persistently ruled so as
to shield disreputable non-Mormons from punish-
ment for "lewd and lascivious conduct," while
Mormons have been persecuted with the utmost
rigor for unlawful cohabitation under the so-called
Edmunds act, which makes it a crime for men to
cohabit with more than one woman. The chief
justice of the Territory and a majority of the
court have held that the Edmunds law applies
only to Mormons, and a man who was arrested
on a charge of debauching his sister-in-law was
discharged by Chief Justice Zane on the ground
that the Edmunds law was not intended to be a
general corrective of morals. When a deputy
marshal, a married man, was arrested by the
police on a charge of "lewd and lascivious con-
duct" with a woman not his wife, Judge Zane on
habeas corpus proceedings promptly dismissed
the accused on the ground that adultery and forni-
cation was not lewd and lascivious conduct unless
it was practiced in public. On the other hand,
prominent Mormons, who had separated them-
selves from their plural wives immediately on the
passage of the Edmunds law, and had endeavored
to honestly obey that law, were indicted for un-
lawful cohabitation, and when they asked the
right to prove that they had not had sexual inter-
course with their plural wives, Chief Justice Zane
ruled that such evidence was immaterial and irrele-
vant; that unless they had publicly abandoned
their plural wives they were guilty of "holding
them out" as their wives, which constituted their
offense of unlawful cohabitation under the Ed-
munds law. It mattered not that in the entire
history of civil and criminal judicature, no
English or American court had ever held that co-
habitation meant other than sexual intercourse,
the Mormons had to go to jail, because they did
not publicly renounce their plural wives.
	In the execution of the Edmunds act the utmost
latitude has been given to the marshal and his
deputies. Domicilliary visits had been common,
and spies and informers had been encouraged to
ply their infamous trade. When a reputable Mor-
mon resented a gratuitous insult by a deputy
marshal on the street, he was fined by Judge
Zane and sent to jail for five days on the untruth-
ful charge of attempting to intimidate an officer
of his court. The stories about attempts to lynch
Collin, and the gathering of Mormons for that
purpose, and the necessity for placing Collin in
the hands of the military for protection, are alto-
gether false. The sensational reports telegraphed
from Omaha about a mob going to Fort Douglas
and demanding Collin are manufactured for a pur-
pose. There is no necessity for additional troops
in Utah. You, sir, as well as your advisers, have
been imposed upon by Governor Murray and
Marshal Ireland. These representations are
maliciously false. The Mormons understand per-
fectly that every effort has been made and is be-
ing made, by characterless federal officials to
provoke an outbreak. The Mormons know that
they would be doing themselves an irreparable
injury by attempting any violence or unlawful act.
They have not, under the most intolerable and un-
justifiable conduct of federal officials, disturbed
the peace or in any way resisted the execution of
the laws. The Mormons ask only for an impar-
tial administration of the laws, and just treatment.
They have appealed to the Supreme Court of the
United States and are patiently awaiting a decision
by that high tribunal on the rulings of Judge Zane.
They believe that his extraordinary interpretation
of the law will be rebuked. The Mormons do
not object to the presence of the troops in their
midst. They do object, however, to the sending
of troops on false pretenses. They object to be-
ing misrepresented and set before the world as de-
fiant, turbulent, and given to mob violence, when
all their history proves to the contrary. Those


who have demanded and secured reinforcements
sent to Fort Douglas have not been animated by
an honest purpose, but with the object of annoy-
ing, and if possible, of goading the Mormons to
violence. The Mormons insist that the reasons
assigned for sending additional troops to Salt
Lake are outrageously false.
	Very respectfully,
