MISCELLANEOUS. 
	Frankness speaks of those present as if they
were absent; and charity of the absent ones as
if they were present.
	Precept is example written in sand, and
washed away by the tide; example is instruc-
tion engraved on the rock.
	A handsome woman pleases the eye, but a
good woman pleases the heart. The one is a
jewel; and the other is a treasure.
	The perfection of conversation is not to play
a regular sonata, but like the AEolian harp, to
await the inspiration of the passing breeze.
	Education commences at the mother's knee,
and every word spoken within the hearing of
a child tends toward the formation of charac-
ter.
	The man whose soul is in his work finds his
best reward in the work itself. The joy of
achievement is vastly beyond the joy of re-
ward.
	"Quarrel," a little schoolgirl parsed, "is
plural." "Why?" asked the teacher. "Be-
cause it takes two to make one," said the 
child.
	There is a respect due to age, but there is
also a respect due to youth, the lack of which
accounts for many a failure in the household
and in systems of education.
	"Now, you young scamp," said Binks, senior,
as he took hold of his youngest to give him a
"dressing," "I'll teach you what is what!" "No,
papa," replied the incorrigible, "You'll teach
me which is switch."
	An American lessee tells the following with
reference to the late General Grant—"The first
act was over, and we were chatting in the
wings with our manager, when one of the
boys rushed up to tell us that General Grant
and family were in one of the boxes. A flush
of gratified pride mounted to the managerial
face, followed by a look of agonized doubt as
he evidently reflected that perhaps the general
had come in with an order. 'Did you send
him a box, Robson?' he asked me; and, on my
replying in the negative, he pulled a card out
of his pocket, and, scribbling a line on it, told
the boy to take it to the box-office and bring
back an answer. The boy rushed off, his head
full of the general, and returned in a few
minutes with the same card, which he handed
to the manager. A ghastly look crossed his
face as he read it, and, without a word, he
handed it to me. The first line read, in the
rather shaky managerial caligraphy, 'Did Gen.
Grant pay for his box?' while underneath ap-
peared, 'No; but my son Fred did.—U. S.
Grant.' The boy had taken it to the box in-
stead of the box-office."


