SUMMIT STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of Summit Stake convened in the
meeting house at Coalville, on Friday, Sep.
18th, 1885, Prest. M. J. Atwood presiding.
After the opening exercises, the usual business
was proceeded with, after which the condition
of the following branches of the Relief So-
ciety were reported favorably: Kamas, by
Sister S. Harder; Rockport, E. Vernon; Wan-
ship, A. Boyer; Hoytsville, P. Holt; Coalville,
M. Robinson; Upton, A. Clark. Statistical
and financial reports from the various wards
comprising the Stake were read by the Secre-
tary.
	Prest. M. J. Atwood spoke at considerable
length, referring in the course of her remarks,
to the Relief Society Fair now in progress;
congratulated the sisters upon the result of
their efforts, as shown by the splendid display
of their handiwork there exhibited. Spoke
of her recent visits to the various wards, and of
the general good feeling that prevailed through-
out the stake; exhorted the sisters to continue
on in the good work, and referred to the bene-
fit that the several branches of the Society

[Column 2]

were to the local organizations of the Stake,
and gave some excellent instructions to the
Society officers pertaining to their duties as
such, showing, in various ways, the good
they could accomplish. Closed her very in-
teresting discourse by invoking the blessings of
God upon all the faithful.
	Coun. Ruth Park made a few timely and
appropriate remarks, thanking all who had
taken an active part in aiding the Fair, and
for the very creditable exhibit they had made.
Conference adjourned sine die.

	The Society Fair held in Coalville, on the
17th and 18th of September, in aid of the
new Stake Assembly Building now being
erected in Coalville, was the second gotten up
by the Relief Society, Young Ladies' and
Primary Associations of the Summit Stake.
Notwithstanding the dull times experienced
during the past six months, the nice sum of
over eight hundred dollars was cleared by the
Fair, making near twenty-five hundred dollars
that has been raised by the above mentioned
associations towards building our beautiful
Stake House, which, when completed, will be
a great credit to our Stake, and I may say that
the building will be surpassed by none in the
Territory for its architectural beauty and ap-
pearance. Our sisters feel justly proud of their
efforts and success in the part they have taken
in aiding in its construction.
	The completion of the building is greatly to
be desired, as we have no house of sufficient
size to accommodate even a small minority of
the members of our Church at quarterly Stake
conference.
	The Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
desire to express their thanks to all who have
assisted by labor, means, or otherwise, in ac-
complishing so much in aid of so desirable and
necessary an object.
	J. S. B.


Woman's Exponent.


