Vol. 14.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1885.	No. 14.


[column 1]
﻿CHRISTMAS.
All hail!  Savior of the Universe!
Great Redeemer of all the human race—
Centuries have passed since on this earth Thou
Camest, an infant, in most humble guise;
Below all things Thou didst most surely stoop,
That Thou mighst save the myriads of the earth.
A woman as thine agent Thou didst choose,
One whose genealogy was sanctified
By Thine eternal law and covenant;
And she herself was pure—immaculate—
Untainted by the spirit of the world;
A virgin in its most extended sense,
A being angels love to consort with,
And one to her a message did convey,
His salutation most grand and graceful.
"Hail thou that art highly favored, woman
Above all other women shalt thou stand
Through all the countless ages of eternity!
Mother of Christ, thy crowning name shall be;
Grand, appropriate, absolute and just!"

Savior! adorable Redeemer!
We love, we serve, we daily worship Thee;
And at this eventful epoch, the world
Of Christians, congregating, bow the knee.
And celebrate Thine advent on this earth;
The morn of this grand day they hail with joy,
And gladness in their thoughts of Thee,
And in their several ways recount Thy praise;
Partaking of the emblems Thou didst bless
And consecrate for ages yet unborn,
Saying, "This do in memory of ME;"
"This do until I come again, and drink
It new within our Father's kingdom."

Well may the Christian soul rejoice each time
This holy bread and wine doth touch his lips;
Does he not realize the holy tie
That binds him ever to his Savior-God
In holy consanguinity and love?
That love He taught His flock to cultivate,
As sure and certain badge that they were His!

My mind runs back to other days and years,
When "Christmas" was a herald of delight—
The glad re-unions that did then take place,
The absent gladly traveled back to home—
No passion dwelt within each heart, but love—
And where that reigns is paradise regained.

The laborer, as the noble, was at home,
And free to cheer his heart as best he could;
Yes, and the rich arose and piled up means
To make the poor ones' table groan with food.
"Convenient" for the day and age of life,
Believing, only as they blest the poor
Had they a right their splendor to enjoy.

The thrilling bells dispelled the morning dream,
Ushering in the advent of the day;
They had a voice, that after e'en long years
The burden and refrain floats o'er my soul
And list'ning ear, with whisperings immaculate!
Wafting sweet perfume o'er my heart and brain,
Inflating both with lingering delight.

Blest season! to many thou dost ever bring
The sanctity, the holy joy, the love,
The pathos of those long past, happy days;
Again in panoramic guise they pass
Like Banguo's ghosts before the thinking brain,
Informing us of that we long have known,
But in the rush of life becomes dispersed,
For chance and change engulf mortality.

When shall we behold the second advent,
Great and glorious, of our Savior King?
No more infantine, no more in humble guise,
But Lord and King of all the myriads
Of the teeming earth, past, present and to come;
His retinue, ten thousand times ten thousand
Of the glorious hosts of the Empyrean!

[column 2]
My soul, art thou prepared to meet thy Lord?
Is there a people prepared to hail Him,
The great Redeemer, Judge Supreme of earth?
The Christian world for this have groaned in prayer,
On ev'ry "advent Sunday," ages past—
Are they prepared to see their granted prayer?

Great Father, Thou knowest the hearts of all.
Before the Judge of all the earth we stand,
Naked as the new-born, unrobed infant—
My heart and brain I lay before Thine eyes,
And freely dedicate them unto Thee,
For they are Thine—Thou gav'st them unto me
Preserve them in the "hollow of Thine hand"
Until I enter on eternal life
With all the righteous of this teeming earth.
						HANNAH T. KING.
December, 1885.


