RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Inasmuch as our Father in heaven has seen fit to call
from our midst our beloved sister and Counselor,
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of the
Payson Relief Society, desire to show our appreciation of
her worth by recording her virtues.
	Resolved, that we hold sacred in our memories both
her precept and example. She manifested the gift of fer-
vent charity, and was firm in her integrity to the principle
of celestial marriage. May we strive to imitate her
patience and meekness, her uncomplaining disposition, her
wisdom, her devotion to God and His cause.
		B. J. SIMONS, President.

	Alice Malena Johnson, daughter of Alexander Wilkins
and Alice Malena Barney, and wife of M. E. Johnson was
born at Provo, Utah, February 28th, 1857; baptized in 1865;
married March 15th, 1874, at Mona, Juab Co., Utah; re-
baptized October 10th, 1875, at Fountain Green, Sanpete
Co., Utah; Died November 22nd, 1885, of typhoid fever,
at Huntington, Emery Co., Utah, having buried her in-
fant daughter, Hattie Minerva, on the 18th of the same
month. She leaves a family consisting of a husband and
five small children to mourn her loss. She was a devoted
wife and mother.
	She has been an energetic teacher in the Huntington
Relief Society ever since the organization of the same. She
was ever ready to bear a true and faithful testimony to the
work of the Lord, always liberal to donate both time and
means to help the good work along; was also a member of
the Y. L. M. I. A., and belonged to the Huntington choir
for the past five years, and was always punctual in attend-
ance to the same. Her loss will be deeply felt by the com-
munity, as well as her bereaved family and friends.
	We feel to deeply sympathize with her family and friends,
and pray that our Heavenly Father will comfort their hearts
in this affliction and keep them pure and spotless, that they
may be worthy to meet her in a better world to come. And
let us all be humble and prayerful, and so order our lives
hat when we are called to go behind the vail, we, like her
may carry with us a hope of coming forth in the morning of
that glorious resurrection that awaits the faithful.
		TALITHA C. AVERY, President,
		SARAH WIMMER, Secretary.


[Column 1]
F. Auerbach & Bro.
	A Full and Complete Stock of 
		MILLINERY. 
Spring and Summer Goods
	AND LADIES DRESS TRIMMINGS.
[pointing finger graphic] CALL AND EXAMINE.

