	LOGAN PRIMARY CONFERENCE

   The First District Primary Conference met
in the Logan Tabernacle at 10 a.m., November
14th, 1885, Stake Prest. Jane E. Molen
presiding. The meeting was called to order
by Prest. Jane E. Molen. Singing. Prayer
by Sister A. Barber. Singing. "Gladly Meet-
ing." Prest. Molen then invited all the Presi-
dents of the different Primaries to the stand.
The First Ward was then represented by
Prest. Maud Burton. She said that the child-
ren of that ward had made a very nice wreath
of hair flowers, which they were going to
present to the Temple. Hulda Hanson, of
that ward, then gave a recitation, entitled,
"The Ship at Sea." The Second Ward was
represented by Prest. Lydia Baker. A song,
entitled, "The Weary Gleaners," was then ren-
dered by Miss Nellie Kimball and Lizzie
Baker of that ward. The Third Ward was
represented by Prest. Sarah Tarbet. Annie
Tarbet, of that ward, then sang a song entitled,
"If papa were only ready." The Fourth Ward


[Column 1]

was represented by Prest. Harriet Robbins.
Maggie Smith, of that ward, then gave a recita-
tion, entitled, "Little Bennie." The Fifth
Ward was represented by the president, Sister
Jacobs. Emma Bunts, of that ward, gave a
recitation, entitled, "It is anybody's business?"
	Sister Jane E. Molen and Eliza Snow
addressed the children and gave them some
very good and valuable instruction. Thomas
W. Pike and Master Steward, of the Sixth
Ward, rendered a dialogue, entitled, "The lost
pocket book."
	The meeting was then adjourned until 2 p.m.
Singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet." Benediction by Sister Pike.
	The afternoon session met at 2 p.m., and
was called to order by Prest. Jane E. Molen.
Singing, "Love at Home." Prayer by Harriet
Robbins. Singing, "Beautiful Zion." A
dialogue was then given by two little girls of
the First Ward. Providence Ward was then
represented by Prest. Prosina Trabar. She
said that the little boys of that ward were all
braiding themselves a nice straw hat, and said
that the young ladies of that ward helped her
a great deal. Margaret Campell and Joan
Marler, of Providence, sang a song, entitled, 
"Stay on the Farm." Fannie Farnes, of the
Second Ward, gave a recitation, entitled,
"Christmas Eve." Nancy Thomas and Lizzie
Evans, of the Third Ward, then rendered a
song, entitled. "Sweet hour of prayer." The
Sixth Ward was represented by the Prest. Si-
ter Pike, and Carrie Seward, of that ward, gave
a recitation, entitled, "Did not Think." Lulu
Hammond, John Zollings, Andrew Hammond
and David Thomas, of Providence, rendered a
dialogue, entitled, "Smoking." Miss Kate
Hanson, of the Sixth Ward, gave a recitation,
which was followed by a recitation by Celia
Morrell, of the Third Ward, entitled, "My
Mother's Bible." Tennie Ellis, of the Fifth
Ward, gave a recitation, entitled, "Little Ben."
Sister A. Barber gave the children some ex-
cellent advice. Della Maugham, of the Sixth
Ward, gave a recitation, entitled, "Captured,
but not Conquered." A number of little girls
from Providence then sang a song, entitled,
"Never leave us." Sister Zina Young made
some very good remarks. A little girl, of the
Fifth Ward, sang a song. Bernnice Leading-
ham, of the Second Ward, gave a recitation,
entitled, "Safely Through."
	Prest. Molen spoke a little while to the child-
ren, and the meeting was then adjourned until
further notice. Singing, "Did you think to
Pray?" Benediction by Sister Mary Clark.
	ALICE PEARSON, Secretary.

