R. S. AND Y. L. MEETING.

	Synopsis of the semi-monthly meeting held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
November 28th, 1885, Counselor B. W. Smith
presiding. Singing. Prayer by Mrs. E. B.
Wells, and singing the hymn, “O my Father.”
Minutes of the previous meeting read by the
Secretary, Miss Jane Smalie, and accepted; also
minutes of the Y. L. of the 1st and 20th wards,
and P. A. of the 5th, 10th, 20th, 11th and 21st
wards.
	Sister B. W. Smith expressed her pleasure at
hearing the minutes, and presented some matters
of business pertaining to the Deseret Hospital.
Some sisters were wanted there to do some sew-
ing, which was satisfactorily arranged for the next
Friday. Mrs. Smith also reminded the sisters
that the Relief Society Conference of this Stake
would be held on Friday, Dec. 11th, in that hall.
She then gave the meeting into the hands of the
sisters, and prayed the Spirit of God to rest upon
the congregation.
	Sister E. B. Wells said we ought to appreciate
the many blessings we have, and remember to ac-
knowledge the hand of the Lord in all things.
Our enemies are trying to push us to the very
extreme, to see if we will rebel; the freedom we
once enjoyed is greatly in contrast with our present
circumstances and surroundings; we have not
the peace and quiet of former days. Urged the


sisters to be wise and encourage their husbands'
brothers and sons to obey the law of God, and not
to falter, and let our conversation be of an instruc-
tive nature, calculated to build up, for the day is
coming when we will need a strong testimony for
ourselves. Spoke of the danger of apostasy, and
the sentiments of some men in authority on the
subject of the present persecutions, who thought
they were necessary to purify the people."
	Sister M. A. Pratt made some very timely re-
marks, and also referred to those who could not
endure the trials and hardships, and if there were
only a few left, and out of these only one half
with oil in their lamps, it gave us food for serious
consideration. She also very earnestly addressed
young wives, counseling them to aid their hus-
bands in performing the duties devolving upon
them.
	Sister Mortenson bore a faithful testimony, and
Sister Mary A. Freeze spoke of home missionary
work; thought we should improve our opportuni-
ties in spiritual labors, and carry out the revela-
tions that have been given, instead of seeking
after any more. We are still a long way short of
being perfect. Spoke of patronizing our enemies,
and thought we ought to make a great effort
against being led away by the vanities of the
world.
	Sisters Mary Gerber and Ann Player each bore
a strong testimony, and the congregation united
in singing a verse or two of the hymn, "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning."
	Sister Osmer and Sister M. A. E. Watmough
each made a few remarks, and bore a testimony.
Some notices of conference were given out, and
meeting adjourned for four weeks. Singing,
"Lord dismiss us," etc. Benediction by Mrs. 
Julia Howe.


