CHRISTMAS

	Christmas approaches, and as the merry
season draws near, our thoughts revert to a
period eighteen hundred years ago, when the
Eternal Son of God, the mighty Savior of the
world, condescended to become the babe of
Bethlehem, and descended below all things,
that He might bring about the great scheme
of redemption, and open up the way whereby
a fallen world could be restored to the presence
of the Father.
	No wonder the heavenly host sang, “Glory
to God in the highest; peace on earth, good
will to man.” But did mankind receive Him?
Oh, no! he came unto His own, and His own
received Him not. ‘Could this lowly babe,
born of obscure parents and cradled in a
manger, be the King, the promised Messiah?
This cannot be the Deliverer—He that was to
restore the greatness to Israel, and sit upon the
throne of His father, David.  What if angels
did announce His birth with songs of joy, and
the wise men of the east follow His star till it
rested over the manger where the young child
and His mother were! “For,” said they, “how
can this lowly babe be He that was to come
—the promised Savior—and what have we to do
with angels?  Our fathers saw them, but we
have no need, for have we not Moses and the
prophets, and the canon of Scripture is, no
doubt, full, and we cannot receive one who
comes to us under such unpropitious circum-
stances." 
	And so the Jews rejected the Lord of life
and glory.  Ah!  but the arch enemy of man-
kind knew better; he feared {} promise— {}
the seed of the woman should bruise the head
of the serpent, and finding Herod a fitting in-
strument, filled him with fears and inspired his
heart with rage and jealousy, and vainly
thought, by destroying all the young children,
to frustrate the purposes of the Almighty.  No
matter how innocent the victims, no matter
how many mothers are broken-hearted—let
Rachel weep for her children and refuse to be
comforted, if we can only destroy the young
child from off the earth.  But these wicked
designs did not succeed, because the Father
had decreed from the beginning, and overruled
even the evil designs of the wicked, to bring
about His own great and glorious purposes.
And so the Son of God walked the earth His
appointed time, healing the sick, opening the
eyes of the blind, preaching the Gospel to the
poor, comforting the mourner and doing good
to all men; Himself fulfilling every law, that
He might become a perfect sacrifice, doing the
works of the Father who had sent Him, that
He might set an example for us, that if we
follow, and do the works that He did, we shall
become perfect, even as He is perfect.
Then, when another Christmas day dawns
upon the earth, let us remember the Holy One
who has again restored the Gospel to the earth,
never again to be taken from it; and although
His people are under a cloud at the present
time, let us not forget that the promises of God
are sure, and His decrees immutable; and
though some may suffer for a season, the Lord
will surely hear the cry of His oppressed peo-
ple and deliver them and put their enemies to
shame, for they who suffer for Him shall also
reign with Him; and it is they who have come
up out of great tribulation that will follow the
Lamb wheresoever He goeth; while the wicked
and those who would destroy the people of
God from off the earth, shall call on the
mountains and rocks to hide them from His
presence, when the great day of His wrath
shall come, for the efforts of the wicked can no
more overthrow the work of God to-day than
the slaughter of the innocents by Herod could
destroy the infant Jesus.  And the servants of
God, whom persecution has driven to the nations
of the earth, will do a great work therein, and
it will come to pass as it did anciently, that
the more they oppressed us, the more we will
multiply and grow.
Then let us, as Latter-day Saints, seek after-
the Spirit of Him whoso birth we celebrate,
and strive to do the works that He did; and
while we prepare our little gifts of kindness
and love for the objects of our affection, for-
get not the more important duty of administer-
ing to the necessities of the poor and needy,
visiting the sick and carrying comfort to the
mourner, for the Lord Himself has said, “In-
asmuch as ye have done it unto the least of
one of these, my brethren, ye have done  un-
to me.” In this way we shall ourselves receive
a blessing, and give to all a happy Christmas. 
