HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Oil of lavender will drive away flies.
	Grained wood should be washed with cold tea.
	Mortar and paint may be removed from window glass
with hot, sharp vinegar.
	If paper has been laid under carpet, all dust may be
easily removed with it.
	If a bedstead creaks at each movement of the sleeper,
remove the slats and wrap the end of each in old news-
papers. This will prove a complete silencer.
	Carpets should be thoroughly beaten on the wrong side
first, and then on the right side, after which, spots may be
removed by the use of ox gall or ammonia and water.
	Steel knives not in daily use may be kept from rusting if
they are dipped in a strong solution of soda. When dry,
wrap them in flannel and put them away in a dry place.
	Lemons may be kept for months by simply putting them
into a jug of buttermilk, changing the liquid about once in
three weeks. When the lemons are required for use, they
should be well dried with a cloth.
	A little turpentine put into the wash boiler will make
clothes very white, and will often remove incorrigible stains
from white goods. A tablespoonful of turpentine to a
large boiler, or a teaspoonful to two gallons of water may
be used. There is no smell; the boiling destroys it.
	Nice Plum Cake.—Take six ounces of butter, whipped
to a cream; add the same weight of sugar, stir in four 
whipped eggs, and twelve ounces of flour; beat these well,
and add six ounces of currants, and six ounces of sultanas
and stoned raisins, two ounces of candied peel, twelve
almonds, pounded, a pinch of mace, a teaspoonful of spice,
and one of baking powder.
	Minced Fowl.—Take the remains of a cold roast fowl,


and cut off all the white meat, which mince finely, without
any skin or bone; but put the bones and skin into a stew
pan, with an onion, a blade of mace, and a handful of
sweet herbs tied up. Add nearly a pint of water. Let it
stew for an hour, and then strain and pour off the gravy,
putting in a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Take
two hard boiled eggs, and finely chop them. Mix them
with the fowl, and add salt, pepper, and mace, according
to taste. Put in the gravy; also half a teaspoonful of very
finely minced lemon peel, one tablespoonful of lemon juice,
two tablespoonfuls of flour, made into a smooth paste with
a little cold water, and let the whole just boil. Serve the
fowl with sippets of toasted bread. People often prefer
cayenne to common white pepper.


