			WEDDINGS.

	The announcement of a wedding often furnishes
me food for reflection. Are the contracting parties,
the young couple who are thus forming a life
partnership, suited to each other, physically and
intellectually? Are they taking this all-important
step understandingly, and after mature considera-
tion? And above all, have they sought for Divine
guidance from the Supreme King, who so well
understands the works of His hands, before doing
that on which so much is depending, which will,
most likely, "make or mar their whole future
lives" on this earth, and no doubt have a weighty
bearing on the life to come? These, and many
other questions, which time alone can answer,
force themselves on my mind.
	There are many things which should be care-

[Column 2]
fully considered by young people, when taking
upon themselves the sacred obligations of hus-
band or wife. It is not an event to be lightly con-
sidered. Do they love each other with a pure,
unselfish love? Have they perfect faith and
confidence in each other?
	These things are indispensable to their future
happiness. Young people, who understand what
the Latter-day Saints do, cannot, in my opinion,
feel perfectly satisfied and happy with a com-
panion who does not possess the Spirit of God,
and is not striving to live a life of honesty and up-
rightness.
	Many trials will be encountered in this relation-
ship; it will be necessary for each to make many
sacrifices to each other's comfort and wishes, at
times, owing to the unavoidable differences in
disposition and training, but whether these sacri-
fices will be made willingly or not, will depend
greatly on the strength and quality of the love ex-
isting between them. They should be ever willing
to overlook each other's faults, and assist by
kindness and gentleness, to overcome and correct
them.
	A young man, before asking a young lady to be-
come his wife, should observe well her character
and disposition, and whether she will be likely to
make a good, faithful wife and mother, and try to
ascertain if she will be united with him in living
his religion and serving God.
	A young lady should, in turn, make it a matter
of sober thought and sound judgment, to ascertain
if he, who has honored her with an offer of his
hand and affections, is worthy of a pure woman's
love; if he is striving to serve God; if he enter-
tains a proper respect for her sex, and if his
actions and general character are such that she
can respect and honor him.
	By thus making a careful selection, and taking a
consistent course, much misery and unhappiness,
discontent and separation, with their attendant
evils, might be avoided, even though "marriage is
a lottery."
	A wedding in our community to-day, when
grand receptions, beautiful wedding dresses and
magnificent wedding cake, with an endless variety
of presents from the guests are the rule, may
make a greater stir in the community, but to the
bride and bridegroom, their obligations to each
other are precisely the same as when, a few
years ago, the young people and their parents
spent less time and means to make a grand dis-
play; when their limited means and joint savings
were spent in a frugal manner to procure the rea
necessary articles to go to housekeeping with;
when they started out together with strong, loving
hearts, and willing hands to make a home. Was
there not more real comfort and happiness then
than now, when they start with all the comforts
their parents have been able to accumulate after
many years of ardious toil? Truly, this is an age
of advancement. It is to be hoped that those
who are thus favored may have judgment to act
wisely, that they may not come to the place where
their parents, many of them, began—with nothing.
