			SAN LUIS STAKE.

   Minutes of the first semi-annual conference
of the Relief Society of the San Luis Stake of
Zion, held at Manassa, Colorado, June 1st,
1885, President Martha E. Smith presiding.
After the usual opening exercises, President S.
S. Smith made a few opening remarks. Said,
"It is the first time the sisters have had an
opportunity of meeting in this capacity in this
Stake. It is just as necessary that the sisters
should obtain a testimony of this work, and be
able to bear it to each other, and to teach their
families and children the principles of the
Gospel, as it is that the brethren should. Some
of the families of the Saints have been trained
almost exclusively by the wives and mothers of
men who have spent their time preaching the
Gospel, and in doing whatever was required of
them." He also gave many other good instruc-
tions.
   The following wards were then represented:
Manassa, by Prest. Hannah Christison;
Ephraim, Prest. A. M. Rasmussen; Richfield,
Prest. M.A. Berthlesen. The different branches
of the Society were in a flourishing condition.
Many of the sisters then bore their testimonies
to the truth of this work, and gave good ad-
vice and instruction.
   Prest. Martha E. Smith was well pleased
with the reports and the remarks made by the
sisters. "We all have a work to perform, and
if we are humble, and desire the blessing of
the Lord, He will assist us." Asked the Lord
to bless all who are engaged in this work.
   After singing and prayer, meeting adjourned
until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session, 2 p.m.:  Meeting opened
by singing, and prayer by Elder S. C. Berthle-
sen. The Stake organization not being com-
plete, Sister Hattie Beers was chosen and sus-
tained as Second Counselor in the Stake Presi-
dency of the Relief Society; Sister Semantha
T. Boice was chosen and sustained as Secretary
and Treasurer.
   Elder Dalton made some excellent remarks.
Said, "The sisters are entitled to all the gifts,
privileges and blessings in connection with the
brethren, that are within the grasp of humanity.
The Relief Society is one of the best organiza-
tions among the Latter-day Saints." Showed
what relation the sisters sustained to the Church
and kingdom of God; made many other good
remarks, gave good instruction, and bore a
strong testimony to the truth of this work.
Remarks were also make by Bishop Rasmussen,
J. C. Dalton and others of the leading
brethren.
   Sister A. M. Rasmussen was then sustained,
and set apart by Prest. S. S. Smith, as a mid-
wife and nurse to the sick. Sister Beers was
then set apart by Elder Dalton, Sister Boice
by Elder W. Christison, to their respective
offices. A good spirit prevailed during the
conference; we truly had a time of rejoicing
together, long to be remembered by those who
attended.
   After singing "The Spirit of God," etc., and
benediction by Martin Christison, conference
adjourned for six months.
		MARTHA E. SMITH, President,
		SEMANTHA T. BOICE, Secretary.

