[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | September | Issue: 7 | Title: LINES. | Author: LU. DALTON]

LINES.
Addressed to Sister Elizabeth Casto of Manti.

God bless thee, sister, pressing on thy way
With double burden on thy shoulders laid;
A sentinel thou standest night and day,
With human weakness on thy Savior stayed;
Thou  knowest He is full of hope and strength,
As well as love and mercy, truth and grace;
And thou hast learned to grasp His hand at length
And walk in light outshining from His face.


Thy cares and sorrows, many though they be,
Thy burdens, great and heavy to be borne,
Bring not a frown upon thy forehead free
And not a murmur to thy lips is known.
Thy steadfast heart, by faith made strong and brave,
Accepts thy lot and upward looks to Him
Whose arm extends the trustful soul to save,
Whose loving kindness never groweth dim.

Oh, blessings on thy head with silver crowned,
The queenly head of one who walks in light,
And sheds a heavenly atmosphere around,
As radiated from a jewel bright.
A mother thou in Israel, and they
Who grow around thee yet shall gladly rise
To bless thee on thy holy, heavenward way,
And scan thy life with reverential eyes.

Oh, blessings on thy lovely, patient hands
That minister in daily works of love.
As constantly as time’s slow falling sands;
And to thy loved one very angels prove;
That, also, filled with gifts eternal, fall
Upon the heads of Zion’s daughters, come
From far and near, in answer to the call
Of that dear Shepherd leading Israel home.

Oh blessings on thy busy, willing feet
Which go and come at duty's stern behest,
And never falter though 'mid cold or heat,
When errands of sweet love are made their guest.
And rich reward awaits them in the day
When in the clouds thy Savior shall descend
With all the sanctified, for in the way
Those feet shall fly to meet thy Lord and Friend.

And blessings on thy tender, faithful heart
That ever felt for all who weep and mourn,
That on this earth hath borne a faithful part,
And by thy trust in God hath been upborne.
He loveth thee, and hath inscribed thy name
In living light within His Book of Life.
How fade all earthly gain, all earthly fame,
Before this heavenly gift Eternal Life.
						    LU. DALTON.
Manti, July 19th 1889.


[Column 1]
