the General Board, and Miss Emily Smith, daughter of Mrs. Julina L. Smith and President Joseph F. Smith. An Angel From On High The centenary of the first appearance of the Angel Moroni recalls a gem of "Mormon" Hymnology, written by Parley P. Pratt. An angel from on high, _ The long, long silence broke; Descending from the sky, These gracious words he spoke: Lof in Cumorah's lonely hill, A sacred record lies concealed. Ee eet ae * Pe Sealed by Moroni's hand, It has for ages lain, To wait the Lord's command, From dust to speak again. It shall again to light come forth To usher in Christ's reign on earth. It speaks of Joseph's seed, And makes the remnant known. Of nations long since dead, Who once had dwelt alone. The fulness of the Gospel, too, Its pages will reveal to view. The time is now fulfilled, The long expected day; Let earth obedient yield, And darkness flee away; Remove the seals, be wide unfurlec. Its light and glory to the world. Lo, Israel, filled with joy, Shall now be gathered home, Their wealth and power employ To build Jerusalem; While Zion shall arise and shine, And fill the earth with truth divine Items About the Book of Mormon re ** Moroni, the heavenly messenger, first appeared to Joseph Smith on the night of September 21, 1823. The angel informed the boy that "there was a book deposited, written upon gold plates, giving an account of the former inhabitants of this continent, and the source from whence they sprang. He also said that the fulness of the everlasting gospel was contained in it, as delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants." On the 22nd day of September, 1827, Moroni delivered the plates to the Prophet Joseph. The first edition of the Book of Mormon was published in 1830. This edition consisted of 5,000 copies. The Book of Mormon has been translated and published in fifteen languages. These languages are: English, Danish, French, German, Italian, Welsh, Hawaiian, Swedish, Dutch, Maori, Samoan, Spanish, Tahitian, Turkish and Japanese. The book has been translated in Hindustani and modern Jewish but not yet published in these languages. The first American edition of the Book of Mormon was published in Palmyra, New York, 1830. The first Utah ediition was printed and published in Salt Lake City in 1871. The Danish translation was published at Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1851. The Welsh, at Myrthyr, Tydvil. The French, at Paris, in 1852. The German, at Hamburg. The Italian, at London, England, in 1852. The Hawaiian, in San Francisco, in 1855. "The Swedish, in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1878. The Dutch, in Holland, in 1890. The Spanish, in Salt Lake City, in 1886. The Maori, in Auckland, New Zealand, in 1889. The Samoan, in Salt Lake, in 1903. The Japanese, in Tokio, in 1909. The Spanish edition circulates in twenty-one Latin-American republics.
EDITORIAL 
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah