[Vol10 | September 1923 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: BOY OF MY DREAMS]
BOY OF MY DREAMS 445 challenge implies compliance with the conditions, 'honorable release'." The note was signed, Gareth. "Tt isn't true. It is some fool nonsense." Curtis Langley reflected, crumpling the note in his hand. A picture of his wife rose before him, a picture of her as she had appeared standing by the French windows, that evening, so daintily charming of person, so serene and untroubled of sou!. Catherine wear a mask like that to cover deceit? Catherine disloyal to him? Catherine cheap and common? Though he had not realized it before, it suddenly came to him that if he had been an artist striving to paint the perfect Madonna, Catherine's face would have been the one he would have chosen to depict. He roused himself with an effort. 'Honorable release,' a poetic name for divorce. Curtis shuddered as the word crossed his brain. All the things he had regarded as too vulgar and remote to enter into his thoughts seemed suddenly at his threshold. This thing could nct be true. He adjusted his suspenders, got up from the chair and went to the door of his wife's room, her private dressing room. It was a room he rarely entered. He disliked draperies so much. He parted the curtains now and looked in. Then he drew back amazed. Catherine, exquisitely gowned, was dressed for the ball. He had never seen her so beatitiful. Then his own theory smote him. "Women were only lovely when they loved." Catherine was lovely because she loved—who was the fellow? Curtis crossed the room to her desk. Men who made love to other men's wives, the mere thought was revolting to him, always wrote letters and never had sense enough not to send them. The desk was open and he began rummaging through its contents. There it was, a bundle of letters tied with a silk cord. "Perfumed and tied with a ribbon," he muttered to himself. "Nothing omitted, of course. If it is true, if those are his letters to her, if they must stage a thing of that kind," he concluded, "we'll end it in the usual, cheap, melodramatic way." Curtis took his pistol from the table drawer. It was the weapon of a coward, he had always maintained. If it were used now to finish three who had made a muddle of their lives, it would have served its purpose. He laid the pistol down beside the bundle of letters and took one from the pack. He would not act in the dark. He would know what he was doing before he made any move. "Carissima," the letter began. He snorted with contempt. "Carissima." Latin. He had studied Latin himself once; but had never found it necessary to make use of the cumbersome tongue.

 "When you sang, last night," the letter went on, "I listened to you entranced." "Catherine sang?' Her husband murmured to himself, "She used to sing before we were married. And she is singing now for him. JI, too, listened to her entranced." "The house was under your spell," he read on and reflected that she always used to have them under her spell. It was the poetry in her soul or something about her voice that got them. He read on: "I wondered how IJ, a mere man, had dared to lift my eyes to yours." "Yes, I wonder a little myself,' Curtis muttered, clenching his fists in fury. "While the house applauded and would not be satisfied and you returned humbled, not exalted by their joy, I wondered if it could be true that J had sat by your side and held your hand in mine." Curtis caught his breath: "Jove, has it gone as far as that?" "A mist of holiness enveloped you like a veil and I felt that I should never dare to touch you again, even with reverence. And my touch must never 'profane.' Keep me alive to this light that leads me on. Keep me alive—alive to the truest. "Forever yours, "Gareth." He folded the letter thoughtfully and laid it down. It was true then another man loved his wife, loved her truly, he was obliged to admit that. Perhaps deserved her more than did the husband who had slipped into a sodden indifference and accepted her as a matter of course. He remembered that he, too, stood somewhat in awe of her in those early courtship days. He seemed to recall that she had been striving, of late, to restore that former comradship of the soul. But he had been so deep in his groove, and the groove withal had been so comfortable, that now he merely grunted his disapproval and remained behind his paper wrapped in easy silence. "She has mellowed with time and I have mildewed." he thought with bitterness. Curtis replaced the letters on his wife's desk and then a partly finished letter in her handwriting attracted his attention. 'Dear Dream Hero," the letter began. 'How is it a woman could never make her husband her 'dream hero'," he cried. "I can no longer stifle my raptures alone," the letter went on. "I have cried out to the stars: 'Give him to know that I am near. Give him to feel the warmth of my human presence as one is aware of the moon rays, the star gleams, the radiance of a rose, even though one turns and speaks not'." Yes, it sounded like Catherine, always poetical, always the idealist. He read on; but to him I am only a personal convenience, a housekeeper, who smooths the domestic
BOY OF MY DREAMS 447 cares to his fancy, who tempers the accounts to his purse, who nods with interest when he glances up from his paper with a comment, who makes no demur—when he yawns and goes to bed " "Tt does not seem like Catherine to expose my shortcomings to another," Curtis considered, "she has seemed the soul of loyalty." The conclusion of the letter smote him: "I have taken my joys alone. There is nothing lonelier." "I might have gone out with her a time or two," he reflected. And then a vision of her as she looked in the ball gown rose before him. This Gareth, whoever he was, would see her as he had seen her just a few minutes before. He must stir himself while there was time. He found the package in the hall, as the note had stated. If he put it on, he was in honor bound to release her honorably, in case he failed to win her love again. Curtis Langley put on the " silly costume," as he had dubbed it. Perhaps it was not so bad an idea after all. Under cover of the mask and with Catherine thinking him the—what was it she had called this other, this man who was not her husband? Oh, yes, it came to him, "Boy of my Dreams." He, too, had been "the Boy of her Dreams" once, he knew that. They had been as foolish about each other as most lovers. And now he must try to revive the old love, make her admire him as she used to do. A glance into the mirror, as he adjusted the costume, was not reassuring. He had slumped miserably, he could see that. A person might be "fat and forty," and yet not look "fat and forty," and flabby of brain and muscle besides. He was pulling up the hood of the domino, when a voice from Catherine's door smote on his ears with poignant pain. "Curtis," Catherine was standing in the doorway, "I can't let it go any further. Even a dream kept from you, is a deceit." "I may as well tell you that I know all," her husband turned to her. "Not all, dear." "I know enough! Catherine, if you had only told me that you were tired of being my household convenience. If you had said: "Give me my freedom. Let me sing again, and win again a live mate for the—the sort of person I have become. If I could only sit here in my loneliness and think of you serene of soul, as you have always seemed, unsullied by deceit. If you had only left me the image of yourself, as I thought you, to worship and follow to my grave. My honor and yours were in your hands'." "T know, dear," she was more appealing than ever in sweet humility. "A man's very soul is in a woman's hands. That is why I have been blaming myself. I—I think I lulled your soul to sleep with—creature comforts. You know my own soul slept also.

 There were no children—and nothing to wake us up, no sharp crisis." "You seem to have provided that." He observed curtly. "I—I met my crisis some time ago, when I realized where the current of ease was taking us. We were drifting nearer and nearer to the harbor and farther and farther from each other." Catherine was pleading intensely. "You seem to have put in an oar with startling effect," he was steeling himself against the desire to crush her in his arms, crush out the lies and deceit that even then did not show, crush out, perhaps, the very life that was not for him. "Don't sneer, dear,' Catherine went on. "I used to look at you achingly as you sat over your paper and wish that you might glance at me now and then and imagine the space without me. I longed so to be necessary to you before the tide carried me away." "And so you found this 'Gareth'?" "And so I found this Gareth. I read the letters and found my way back to love and romance and the belief in all that is fine and true and happy. Night after night when you had gone to bed 1 would sit here and visit with this 'Boy of my Dreams,' I sang to him, walked in the moonlight with him, waltzed with him." 'Catherine,' her husband burst out threateningly. "Then I tried to rouse you, Curtis. I tried to win you back, dear. I realized that you had not always been indifferent. I knew that if you had slipped it was because I had failed you in some way." "Catherine!" "When I re-read the letters, I could see that we had come a long way from the land of our dreams, you and I. We were hurrying along toward the Long Silence, hurrying away from each other. Some day, one of us would leave the other lonely, so lonely because of the companionship we had missed, the companionship that could then never be." "Catherine, you tell me this, just after you are out of my reach?" "But, Curtis, can't you see; I only did this to win you. I tried every other way." She reached out her arms to embrace him; but he held her aloof. "You could clasp me in your arms, knowing that in a few minutes, he will be here to claim you," he cried indignantly. Catherine laughed softly: "But Curtis, don't you understand? He is here, now, here at last. I have won. I can feel his real presence at last.": Curtis was splendid in his rage. "For heaven's sake, Catherine, speak out what you mean. Where is the fellow?" "I am trying my best to tell you. For some time he has been
BOY OF MY DREAMS 449 only a dream. Now he has come true again, come back to me. Don't you see, dear? There is no other. There never has been another, just the Curtis Langley you became, and Gareth, 'the Boy 299 of my Dreams'. Curtis caught her by the wrist savagely. "Don't lie to me, Catherine; anything but to have that to remember. And don't laugh." He caught her roughly by the shoulders. Tremulously happy, Catherine looked up at him. "That's right, crush me, you big, glorious, ridiculous boy." "Catherine, I'll not be responsible if you flatter and mock. I may do anything," he cried, flinging her from him out of immediate danger. "Oh, won't you see, dear?"' Catherine begged joyously. "Won't you see? I'm not mocking. I love your ridiculousness, dear, anything but your indifference. But if you must have the truth; I am tired of Curtis Langley. I am leaving Curtis Langley. I have always loved Gareth, and now, if you will, I shall always have my Gareth. Oh, I shall keep him so close to me he can never again slip away." For answer, Curtis pulled open the table drawer and took out the pistol. But she put her hand on his. "It isn't loaded, dear. I saw to that. I hoped you would want to shoot me. Surely you know that you are Gareth. Surely you remember that you called yourself that in the days of our courtship. Don't you remember your own letters? You wrote every one of them. Why, if you had looked at the dates you would have known. You wrote them in the days when we meant to be everything to each other; when you meant to do big things; but never anything happier than just loving me. And I let go of you somehow, and let you slip so far away, I called in vain for you to come back. When I re-read your letters one lonely day, I knew we must do something to get back to each other. I lived with my memory of you for weeks and weeks and grew happier and happier. But even that, not shared with you, seemed a deceit. Many a night after you had gone to bed I dressed for a dream dance with you and you flattered me, told me I looked lovely, and danced divinely and that you loved me dearer and dearer. I sang to you, while you were away, wrote to you; but I could not wake you up. You were buried so deep under a—a crust of indifference that I—I couldn't reach down and touch you at all. And so I made this plan." Curtis caught her madly by the shoulders. "You," he cried beginning at last to sense it. "You, it was you, wrote the note I found in my pocket?" "T couldn't rouse you any other way, dear." "And this masquerade costume?" "I thought maybe I could open my heart to you if you were
