[Vol37 | October 1950 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: 696 Visiting Teacher Messages: "For What Shall It Profit a Man?" | Author: Mary Grant Judd]
ViSiting  cJeacher   1 1  iessages — Our  Savior 
Speaks 
Lesson  12- 'For  What  Shall  It  Profit  a  Man,  if  He  Shall  Gain  the  Whole 
World,  and  Lose  His  Own  Soul?"  (Mark  8:36). 
Mary  Grant  Judd 
For  Tuesday,  January  2,  1951 
Objective:     To  stress  that  the  chief  aim  of  life  should  be  the  saving  of  the 
soul  of  man. 
n^O  make  New  Year  resolutions  is 
an  old-fashioned  idea,  but  a 
good  one.  For  how  can  we  develop 
if  we  do  not  make  a  conscious  ef- 
fort to  do  so,  and  when  could  a 
more  logical  time  be  found  to  take 
stock  of  ourselves,  with  a  view  to 
improvement,  than  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  year?  Good  re- 
solves made  at  any  time  are  worth- 
while (provided,  of  course,  that 
they  are  followed  with  purposeful 
action)  but,  to  repeat,  they  are  par- 
ticularly so  at  New  Year's. 
Some  people  consider  it  unneces- 
sary to  pursue  a  concerted  effort  in 
character  development,  preferring 
just  to  drift  along  in  their  day-by- 
day  hving,  and  yet,  as  one  writer 
says,  ''Man  is  the  master  of  thought, 
the  moulder  of  character,  the  maker 
and  shaper  of  condition,  environ- 
ment, and  destiny." 
Even  those  thoughtless  or  care- 
less individuals  referred  to,  if  con- 
templating the  building  of  a  tan- 
gible structure,  would  not  think  of 
commencing  it  without  a  well-form- 
ulated plan.  The  gospel  might  be 
termed  a  blueprint  of  our  Heaven- 
ly Father's  plan  of  life. 
It  was  to  impress  upon  us  that 
the  enticements  of  the  world  will 
lead  us  away  from  God's  plan,  that 
our  Savior  asked  the  question, 
"For  what  shall  it  proliit  a  man,  if 
he  shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and 
lose  his  own  soul?"  (Mark  8:36). 
From  the  time  of  our  first  parents, 
we  have  had  to  meet  and  overcome 
the  temptations  of  the  world.  Even 
the  Savior  was  tempted  of  Satan,

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
703 
who  promised  him  the  kingdoms  of 
earth  and  the  glories  thereof  if  he 
would  but  worship  him. 
In  our  own  time,  we  must  be  con- 
scious of  the  false  gods  that  beckon 
to  entice  us  away  from  right  living. 
One  of  these  might  be  called  by  the 
name  of  vanity.  The  desire  for  un- 
due wealth,  for  show,  for  worldly 
honors  and  the  plaudits  of  men, 
with  attendant  power,  have  all  too 
often  led  to  spiritual  downfall. 
Another  false  god  might  be 
termed  indolence.  To  quote  from 
a  talk  given  by  President  David  O. 
McKay  to  a  group  of  seminary 
teachers: 
Indolence  is  seeking  something  for  no- 
thing. When  a  man  shuns  effort,  he  is  in 
no  position  to  resist  temptation.  So, 
through  all  the  ages,  idleness  has  been 
known  as  the  parent  of  all  the  vices. 
If  the  mind  and  body  are  not 
kept   usefully  employed,   worthless 
activities  will  be  engaged  in.  ''Vul- 
garity weakens  the  mind,"  says 
President  McKay: 
It  is  vulgar  to  like  poor  music,  to  read 
weak  books,  to  feed  on  sensational  news- 
papers, to  find  amusement  in  trashy 
novels,  to  enjoy  vulgar  theatres,  to  find 
pleasure  in  cheap  jokes,  to  tolerate  coarse- 
ness and  looseness  in  any  of  their  myriad 
forms. 
We  must  beware  of  self  indul- 
gence. Intemperance  comes  under 
this  head  and  unchastity.  "Indul- 
gence which  leads  to  licentiousness 
will  kill  spirituality  more  quickly 
than  anything  else  in  this  world" 
(President  McKay). 
May  we  all  resolve  to  be  strong 
enough  in  our  individual  lives  that 
we  may  develop  a  true  sense  of 
values  and  understand  the  full  im- 
port of  Christ's  question,  'Tor 
what  shall  it  profit  a  man,  if  he 
shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and 
lose  his  own  soul?" 
Worl    T7leeting—yUe  Art  of  Homemaking