[Vol37 | October 1950 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Lesson | Title: 686 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: "The Resurrection and the Ascension" | Author: Don B. Colton]
DEPARTMENT 
ofkeoloqij — The  Life  and  Ministry  of  the  Savior 
Lesson  28— ''The  Resurrection  and  the  Ascension" 
Eldei  Don  B.  Colton 
(Reference:  Jesus  the  Chiist,  by  Elder  James  E.  Talmage,  chapter  37.) 
For  Tuesday,  January  2,  1951 
Objective:  To  create  faith  in  the  power  of  Jesus  Christ  over  death  and  to  show 
that  his  resurrection  and  ascension  were  real. 
Christ  Is  Risen 
COMETIME  before  dawn  on  the 
most  memorable  and  the  most 
important  Sunday  in  history,  an 
angel  came  down  in  glory,  and 
rolled  back  the  stone  from  the 
portal  of  the  Savior's  tomb.  The 
Roman  soldiers  were  so  paralyzed 
with  fear  that  they  fell  to  earth  as 
dead  men.  As  soon  as  they  re- 
gained sufficient  strength,  they  de- 
serted their  posts  and  fled.  Ordi- 
narily such  desertion  was  punish- 
able by  death.  The  seal  of  authority 
had  been  broken;  the  tomb  was 
empty. 
Very  early  in  the  morning,  Mary 
Magdalene  and  other  devout  wom- 
en came  to  assist  in  further  anoint- 
ing the  body  of  the  Lord.  They 
brought  spices  and  ointments  ac- 
cording to  the  custom  of  that  day. 
No  doubt,  they  intended  to  sup- 
plement the  work  so  hurriedly  done 
by  Joseph  and  Nicodemus.  They 
said  among  themselves  as  they 
walked:  ''Who  shall  roll  us  away 
the  stone  from  the  door  of  the 
sepulchre?"  They  were  afraid  when 
Page  696 
they  saw  the  angel,  but  he  spoke 
to  them  saying: 
Fear  not  ye:  for  I  know  that  ye  seek 
Jesus,  which  was  crucified.  He  is  not 
here:  for  he  is  risen,  as  he  said.  Come,  see 
the  place  where  the  Lord  lay.  And  go 
quickly,  and  tell  his  disciples  that  he  is 
risen  from  the  dead;  and,  behold,  he 
goeth  before  you  into  Galilee;  there  shall 
ye  see  him:  lo,  I  have  told  you  (Matt. 
28:5-7). 
It  seemed  difficult  even  for  the 
followers  of  Jesus  to  realize  the 
literalness  of  the  resurrection.  Al- 
though she  had  heard  the  angel 
direct  her  to  go  and  tell  the  disciples 
that  he  had  risen,  Mary  Magdalene 
still  told  Peter  and  others  that  they 
had  taken  the  Lord  out  of  the 
sepulchre.  It  is  noticeable  that  a 
devout  group  of  women  were  first 
apprised  of  the  resurrection  of 
Jesus.  Naturally,  Peter  and  "that 
other  disciple,"  probably  John,  hur- 
ried to  the  sepulchre  and  discovered 
that  it  was  empty.  They  found  the 
linen  which  had  been  wrapped 
around  Jesus'  head  and  body.  Note 
the  details  of  the  account.  Having 
seen   these  things,  John  believed.

A  Perry  Picture 
From    a    Painting    by    Hofmann    (1824-1894) 
THE  CHRIST 
Page  697

698  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1950