THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - President

Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor

Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor

Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer

Achsa E. Paxman

Leone G. Layton

Lillie C. Adams

Alta J. Vance

Mary G. Judd

Blanche B. Stoddard

Ethel C. Smith

Christine H. Robinson

Anna B. Hart

Evon W. Peterson

Louise W. Madsen

Alberta H. Christensen

Edith S. Elliott

Leone O. Jacobs

Aleine M. Young

Nellie W. Neal

Florence J. Madsen

Mary J. Wilson

Josie B. Bay

Vol. 37 OCTOBER 1950 No. 10

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (2 segments, 14,866 chars) ===

"We're going to have a baby," she said distinctly, "but of course, you (Continued on page 694) American Pottery and Porcelain Part II—CoNTEMPORARY AMERICAN WARES Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson T has been the dream of many American potters to create a distinctly American china which could stand beside the finest wares of other nations and make the most discriminating purchasers proud to "Buy American." Among those who dreamed that dream was Walter Scott Lenox. Growing up in the pottery district of Trenton, New Jersey, he developed an intense interest in the ceramic activity around him, and determined to lend his skill and energy to its fulfillment. Although even his financial backers prophesied failure, he established his own factory and set about paying off his debts and perfecting his product. He called it American Beleek, for it was the thin, ivory-tinted, lustrous china of the little factory in Ireland which he chose to emulate in design and appearance, though not in fragility. His goal was too close to relinquish, when, in 1895, he became blind and paralyzed, but with the aid of a faithful secretary and an accomplished designer, he worked on. New shapes and patterns were created, and the china was no longer called Beleek,: but Lenox. Soon it was appearing in the finest shops of the land. Then, President and Mrs. Wilson ordered a 1700-piece service decorated with a design adapted from the Stars and Stripes, to replace the old china, and Mr. Lenox knew that he had suc- 'ceeded where all others before him had failed! Page 668 Since that time, other fine American chinas have been put on the market. The Onondaga Pottery Company of Syracuse, New York, manufactures the beautiful Syracuse China—Old Ivory Syracuse, with its soft cream-colored body, decorated with informal sprays and borders of flowers, or, more formally, with simple designs and bands of gold; and Shell Edge Syracuse with a white, very translucent body, decorated with fruit, floral, or deep-sea motifs. The Shenango Pottery Company of New Castle, Pennsylvania, large manufacturers of vitrified hotel china, have recently become interested in two top-ranking home table- — wares. Since 1936, they have been carrying on the production of Haviland china, using formulas, and workmen skilled in their use, sent from the Limoges factory. Thus it ls now possible to fill in sets of the famous gold-band Haviland and other traditional styles, or to choose a completely new and modern pattern of this beloved ware. Castleton china is another enterprise of the Shenango Corporation. The body of this new ware is of a warm ivory tone, decorated with a wide variety of patterns created by eminent contemporary artists. Adaptations of traditional Oriental and baroque floral designs are available, as well as simple and distinguished modern styles. A recent Castleton dinnerware service, produced in collaboration with the AMERICAN POTTERY AND PORCELAIN HAVILAND (ROSALINDE PATTERN) CASTLETON 669 Museum of Modern Art in New York, is a form so chaste and lovely that it requires no decoration. HESE three companies, together with several others producing similar wares, call their product vitrified china, a name which distinguishes it from the chinas produced elsewhere in the world. The difference is to be found mainly in one ingredient of their formula—feldspar. English china is made of various mixtures of clay, flint, and bone ash. Oriental chinas contain bone ash, also, to make the body white and translucent, and help it to keep its shape in the firing, while American vitrified china is composed of clay, flint, and feldspar. In the extreme heat of the kiln, the feldspar melts and partially dissolves the flint and clay, cementing the particles together. Thus, the ware becomes "vitrified'"—dense, non-absorbent, and translucent. Flints, clays, and feldspar from different localities have different qualities, and thus each china company has its own formulas and methods of production. Less expensive than vitrified china, and yet approaching it in some of its qualities, is semi-vitrified china or semi-porcelain. Nontranslucent, slightly more absorbent than vitrified china, with less costly decorations, semi-vitrified china is still a very durable product. It is a crowning achievement of our American ceramic makers that even the tablewares found in our ten-cent stores are remarkably attractive and give good service. The cost of any ceramic ware depends mainly on the cost of the workmanship involved. 'Time and 670 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1950 skill are more costly than materials. The transfer printing process, as in the days of Wedgwood, is a good deal less expensive than hand decoration. Recently, wonderful advances have been made in multi-color underglaze printing, and, today, only the very cheapest ware is decorated with overglaze printed pictures. Gold decoration is accomplished in several ways, but always over the glaze, for gold, like some colors, cannot withstand the high glaze firing. At the Lenox factory, which specializes in gold decoration, only twenty-four carat coin gold is used. It may be painted on by the artist with a brush, applied by a method called. Dry ground laying, or by the acid-gold, or etching, method. In the dry ground laying process, a sticky size is applied to the dish and the gold is dusted on in the form of I powder. Etching is accomplished by covering the piece with an acid-resisting wax, leaving the design exposed. It is dipped into hydrofluoric acid, which eats away the = exposed portion. The -protective wax is then removed, and gold painted on the design. Pieces ornamented with gold are fired in a decorating kiln, and later polished by hand. When several colors are applied in addition to the gold, it is often necessary to fire the pieces several times, thus adding to the cost. THE type of gold used on less expensive wares is called liquid bright gold or luster. This, like the overglaze printed pictures, eventually wears off with use. In the field of design the break with tradition is becoming more and more evident. 'Top-ranking artists are being hired by china companies LENOX VASE to create patterns that are truly American in feeling. An outstanding example is "American Modern," designed by Russel Wright, and made by Steubenville Pottery Company. The shapes are new and rhythmical, and the attractive colors of the glazes are described by their names—Granite Gray, Curry, Bean Brown, and Sea Blue. Among the many interesting patterns created by Victor Schreckengost, artist for the Sebring Pottery Company, American Limoges China Company, and the Salem China Company, are "Comet" with its flame-red lines and platinum stars, and the quaint "Godey" pattern, authentically reprodiis Godey prints. Gladding-McBean Company of California, a large tile and drainpipe producer, makes vitrified china of pleasing shape, and the colorful and popular Franciscan Pottery. Vernon Pottery, also of California, AMERICAN POTTERY AND PORCELAIN puts out the attractive ware with underglaze pictures by the artists Don Blanding and Rockwell Kent. Recent trends toward informality —patio suppers and barbecues, or cozy groups around the fireplace— have given new impetus to the production of artistic stoneware. In it the beautiful colors and textures of earthenware can be combined with the durability and non-porous cleanliness of vitrified china; for stoneware is made from colored clays fired at a high temperature, while china is made from white clays. 671 The future of American ceramics has never appeared brighter. We have finally come to appreciate what we have in our own back yard—literally, as well as figuratively, for the ceramics hobbyist who digs his own clay and experiments with local materials and original shapes and glazes, is breathing life and vitality into the potter's art, which can influence American ceramics as a whole, and develop in us as subtle an appreciation for beauty as that acquired by those who lived during other great periods of ceramic accomplishment. IP - After the Ha rvest Leone E. McCune Now earth has given every lavish gift. The harvest of the orchard, garden, field, Is stored against the fruitless days ahead. The flame of sumac, gold of poplar tree, Have changed to mauve and brown, and indigo Of heavens paled to gray. The burning sun No longer sends its penetrating rays To mpen fruit or consummate the stem. The last sweet sounds of summer disappear In muted bird note, southward in the sky. The bearing of such sumptuous gifts has taxed The earth beyond endurance; weary, spent, She drapes her cloak about her, rests, and dreams. Pioneer Beatrice Knowlton Ekman Though eighty years have etched her face, Her eyes have not grown dull or dim; She walks with her accustomed grace, Her slender figure tall and trim. She has plumbed the depths of life, Billows, shoals, and undertows; Loved and been loved—mother and wife, Knowing all a woman knows, Songs of Gladness Grace B. Wilson Time was I found the happiness That solitude was bringing; But as the days grew long and long My heart held no glad singing. Then, with the coming of my love, Woke such ecstatic madness, My heart is now no longer strange To sudden songs of gladness. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, October 1 and October 15, 1890 "For. THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" A REMEMBRANCE OF JOSEPH THE PROPHET: How little does the world know of the great Prophet who came among us and turned the "key in behalf of woman" nearly half a century ago. I am thankful that I had the privilege of being somewhat acquainted with that noble man, the Prophet Joseph, and hearing sublime truths from his lips, which at the time, probably, I did not so fully appreciate. I have lived to see many of his predictions fulfilled, and still greater events are at hand. The last time he left his home in Nauvoo he said: "I go as a lamb to the slaughter." I saw him pass with his brother Hyrum whom he could not persuade to leave him. They were on horseback and looked very solemn. Joseph knew he would never return alive. It was a terrible blow to the Saints; but they soon leamed to acknowledge the hand of the Lord and that their beloved leader still labors in a higher sphere for the good of Zion. TOE. A. "Forget not the lone one!'' thus thou hast written: Thinkest thou, dearest, we'll ever forget, The poor, weary heart which too early was smitten, Hath suffered and waited, and suffereth yet. Dark days have pass'd o'er thee, since last we met thee; But there's a day when we'll know no regret; Thinkest thou, dearest, we'll ever forget thee? No, gentle friend, we will never forget. —Lula IF YOU WANT TO BE LOVED: Don't find fault. Don't contradict people, even if you're sure you are right. Don't be inquisitive about the affairs of even your most intimate friends. Don't underrate anything because you don't possess it. Don't believe that everyone else in the world is happier than you. Don't conclude that you have never had any opportunities in life. Don't believe all the evil you hear. Don't repeat gossip, even if it does interest a crowd. Don't go untidy on the plea that everybody knows you. Don't be rude to your inferiors in social position. Don't over or - under dress. Don't express a positive opinion unless you perfectly understand what you are talking about. Don't try to be anything but a gentlewoman—and that means a woman who has consideration for the whole world, and whose life is governed by the Golden Rule.—Selected SALT LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Mts. E. S. Taylor said: "I hope we all have a testimony of the Gospel, and not let a spirit of indifference creep over us so that we will be asleep. We should be a peculiar people in faith, in healing the sick, in the blessings of the Gospel. Many are cultivating the knowledge of the Gospel, but many are getting careless, let us teach our children the faith that can heal our sick. We are living in perilous times and we are getting to love pleasure more than right, spending money in many ways that are not right, true pleasure is not enjoyed in such things, it is only by the presence of the spirit of God we enjoy true pleasure." Mrs. Ann Griffiths said: "I had the privilege of shaking hands with the Prophet in Nauvoo, and the precious feeling of friendship has never left my hand yet."—E. Howard, Sec. Page 672 Af TER thirty years tenancy in the Utah State Capitol building, the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers organization in July moved its headquarters to the Daughters 'of the Utah Pioneers Memorial Museum at 304 Lake City, thus fulfilling a long cherished dream. For fourteen years, under the presidency of Kate B. (Mrs. Austin) Carter, and with Cornelia S. (Mrs. Anthony C.) Lund as memorial chairman, contributions have poured in from Daughters in all parts of the world, and from many communities and special donors. It is fitting that the impressive historical relics be housed in this beautiful building at the head of Main Street, where tourists and descendants of pioneers may view and appreciate the relics. UTH CHAPMAN HARTKOPF, housewife, is doing an expert job as secretary-manager of the Eastern Idaho State Fair at Blackfoot. This position calls for physical stamina, sound judgment, diplomacy, and business ability, and is rarely undertaken by a woman. Fourteen counties participate, and the grounds cover thirty-six acres. The attendance last year exceeded 95,000. MARIA COOMBS TAYLOR of Parowan died May 4th, shortly after her 100th birthday. She was believed to be the fourth oldest Utahn.

---

Evelyn L. Winward Dayton, Idaho Your 'College grade" courses in education offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field: Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00 Visiting Teachers Message: Our Savior Speaks Reference: THE HOLY BIBLE L. D. S. Missionary Edition $9.25; Others $1.75 to $20.00 Work Meeting: The Art of Homemaking Reference: "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING." by Constance Talbot $2.90 Literature: The Literature of England Reference: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND VOL. I by Woods, Watt and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75 1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE: Paradise Lost Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell Social Science: "The Progress of Man" Reference: "THE PROGRESS OF MAN." by Joseph Fielding Smith $2.25 — All prices are subject to change without notice — Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 } George Albert Smith, Pres.

=== EXTRACTED ADS ===

--- Ad content from V37_10_26_Poem_Storm_Warning_Newman.txt ---

V37_10_26_Poem_Storm_Warning_Newman.txt

Winward Dayton, Idaho Your 'College grade" courses in education offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field: Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00
Visiting Teachers Message: Our Savior Speaks Reference: THE HOLY BIBLE L. D. S. Missionary Edition $9.25; Others $1.75 to $20.00
Work Meeting: The Art of Homemaking Reference: "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING." by Constance Talbot $2.90
Literature: The Literature of England Reference: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND VOL. I by Woods, Watt and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75 1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE: Paradise Lost Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell Social Science: "The Progress of Man" Reference: "THE PROGRESS OF MAN." by Joseph Fielding Smith $2.25 — All prices are subject to change without notice — Deseret Book Company 44
East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 } George Albert Smith, Pres. Selt Love City, Utah: SS eR A i ee Cc 2 — Me fet