[Work Meeting: Slipcovers and Dressing Table Skirts by Christine H. Robinson]

Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Slipcovers and Dressing Table Skirts Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, January 9, 1951 (Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot, chapters 36, 37, and 41.) "THOUGHTFUL selection of slipcovers can play an important part in the success of your home decorating.
They provide an easy means by which you can use your imagination, ingenuity, and sewing skills to give your home a new freshness and charm.
Slipcovers can be used in practically every room of your home. In your living room you can cover sofas, daybeds, all types of chairs, stools, and hassocks.
Dining room chairs can be slipcovered in a variety of ways to add interest and introduce pattern into a room which might 704 otherwise be plain.
Bedroom chairs and stools, even cedar chests, can be slipcovered effectively. 'The fabric you choose and the style you select can be elaborate or simple, depending upon the spirit you wish to portray. — You can have your slipcovers made by an upholsterer, but you will find it is both stimulating and economical to make them yourself.
They are not difficult to make.
There are excellent patterns and sewing instructions which can be followed easily, and in making your own you will have the joy which comes from creating something useful and lovely.
There are a great many uses for slipcovers in your home decorating.
Some of the more practical of these include: | 1. To protect new furniture from wear, fading, and dust. 2. To fit an odd piece of furniture into your decorative scheme. A piece of upholstered furniture, which is out of harmony with the rest of the room, can, by the use of an appropriate slipcover, be made to fit in and become an integral part of your decorative scheme. 3. To renew old pieces of furniture.
Outmoded or poorly styled furniture can be made to look new and up-to-date with the right slipcover. 4. To economize in decorating. If furniture is old, the use of slipcovers can prove a real economy by enabling you to postpone expensive reupholstering or the purchase of new furniture. In choosing the correct fabrics for your slipcovers, there are several important points to keep in mind. First, the material you select should be of excellent quality and should be in harmony with the general spirit of your room. It is a false  economy to use time, thought, and money in the making of a slipcover unless you use serviceable, good wearing material. If you use an expensive material on one piece of furniture, do not use a cheap material in another slipcover in the same room. The material you use for all your slipcovers should be in _ harmony with the rest of your room's decorations. Although, with the great variety of fabrics which are available today, you can mix various types in the same room, you should make sure harmonious materials are selected. For example, of course, you would not use denim slipcovers in a room with satin draperies. The second point to keep in mind is that slipcovers offer a real opportunity to help co-ordinate your color scheme. If a piece of upholstered furniture seems too large for the size of your room, you can make it appear to be smaller and better proportioned by covering it in a simply styled, well-tailored slipcover made of plain material in a color which matches your walls. If the walls of your room are wallpapered, you might use the background of the paper as the suggestion of the — color of the sofa slipcover. In almost every instance, if you are making a Slipcover for a large sofa or daybed, these pieces will look better covered in a plain colored fabric which blends in either with your walls or with your carpet. A third point to remember is that if you are slipcovering more than one piece of furniture in a room, the "rule of three" is a good guide to follow. (Remember, if too many patterns are used in one room they produce a confused, cramped feeling.) The "rule of three" states LESSON DEPARTMENT that, in most rooms, we should use no more than one basic pattern, plus a stripe (or dot), and the rest a plain color.
This means that if you have a large patterned wallpaper or rug, your slipcovers should be predominantly plain colored, with possibly one chair covered in a stripe. If your draperies are of a patterned material, you can achieve a harmonious effect by using that same patterned material on one or more pieces of furniture in your room, provided the material itself is of suitable quality, such as chintz. By repeating the same pattern in a room, you can achieve a friendly, hospitable, informal spirit.
Many of the same guides we use in choosing slipcovers can be applied to dressing table skirts. The dressing table is one item of furniture with which you can use a great deal of imagination and where you can truly express your own taste and desires.
Dressing table skirts can be very frilly and feminine, tailored and reserved, or sophisticated and even ornate. The skirt can be ruffled, pleated, or straight, depending on the spirit you wish to create.
Solid colored or patterned material can be used, or a combination of two materials is often inter- 705 esting. However, there is one rule to remember, a dressing table must not look isolated. It must bear a relationship to the other furnishings in the bedroom. For a unified feeling in your bedroom, the dressing table skirt should be the same general style and material as your draperies, curtains, or bedspread. To repeat, slipcovers and dressing table skirts can do much to express your individuality in your home. In addition to being a source of economy, they can bring color and life into your home furnishings. Discussion Points 1.
Show the importance of serviceability in choosing material for slipcovers.
Stress the importance of choosing fabrics which are firmly woven and sunfast. (See textbook, page 240.) 2.
Discuss the important details to watch when making slipcovers. (See textbook, pages 244, 245, and 246.) 3.
Discuss measurements for slipcovers.
Call attention to the necessity, where a patterned fabric is used, to allow extra yardage for centering the pattern. (See textbook, page 284.) 4.
Discuss various ways of making economical dressing tables and dressing tables which will fit into corners instead of taking valuable wall space. (See textbook, page 251.) St pate — The Literature—The Literature of England

Lesson 12—Richard Steele and Joseph Addison

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

For Tuesday, January 16, 1951

THE latter part of the seventeenth century following the restoration of Charles II to the English throne in 1660, was one of the most immoral periods in modern history. The gay world of glitter was fashioned solely to please the King and his cavalier court. The gay world of glitter was fashioned solely to please the King and his cavalier court.

So long as the King was popular and all-powerful, no one dared rebuke him. It was after Protestant William and Mary came to the throne, in 1688, that the power of a new middle class, both in town and country, began to assert itself in moral standards, literature, and entertainment, as well as in economics, politics, and religion. From within this class came the inevitable reaction against Restoration shallowness and immorality. From this class, as well, came those masters of English prose who skillfully felt the pulse of the age. They, first, stated in words the hate of sham, and emphasized the love of virtue and industry which were in England's heart, but of which her sons were scarcely aware.

"It is no small thing to make morality fashionable," wrote Hippolyte Taine, a famous critic, of Steele and Addison; yet that was one of their great accomplishments. Another was the manner in which they led, rather than drove, the English people in the direction they felt best. As their contemporary, dramatist John Gay, said of them, they ventured to tell the people that they were a parcel of fops, fools, and vain coquettes; but in such a manner as even pleased them, and made them even more than half inclined to believe that they spoke the truth.

Sir Richard Steele was born in Dublin, Ireland, in 1672. After leaving college to become a captain in the army, and writing controversial political pamphlets for the Whigs (or liberals), he began, in 1709, publishing The Tatler, a periodical or news sheet appearing