[Once Again by Grace M. Candland]

Once again the hillside leaves are turning, The harvest crops are safe in pit and barn; Sumacs have begun their annual burning, And crisping air has drifted in to warn Of coming frost.
Then chestnut burs release Their shining seed, the orchard yield will fall, The song of bird and insect chirp will cease, Squadrons of geese repeat their parting call. The summer's growth will turn to final mold To loam the soil for future bud and bloom; In quiet majesty the year grows old— The ceaseless change of nature's magic loom. We welcome autumn days devoid of stress And gather to our hearts their loveliness. October Winds Rose Thomas Graham October winds croon sleepy lullabies To nodding summer flowers and drooping trees; And frost-kissed leaves like winging butterflies Play tag, suspended in the autumn breeze, Then stamp upon the grass a Persian shawl, Or bank the fence in ornamental frieze.
Bared branches gently scrape the garden wall, With slender fingers tap the windowpane; Birds, flying south, send back a parting call.
Deserted nests hang heavy in the rain On limbs that bow to winters, overlong.
Sweet dreams attend; it will be spring again.
Guchantment in Ouds Elaine Swain Each day I walk a country lane That creeps between the hills, To gather rust and golden leaves A giant elm tree spills.
Each day I haunt October, Trace her footprints, search her lair To find new pools of sunshine Her magic has laid bare.
Each day—come summer, winter, spring, I revel in the fall, For, captured fast on canvas, Autumn hangs upon my wall! Ylotes
10 THE FIELD Request for Copies of 'She Womans &xponent b The General Board wishes to secure copies of The Woman's Exponent in order that a duplicate set of these magazines may be available for safekeeping and for reference in the general office of the Relief Society. It is requested that anyone having copies of any issue of the Exponent who would like to present them to the organization, please send them to: General Board of Relief Society, 40
North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. 'Relief Society Handbook Available The Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society is available at the office of the General Board, 40
North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, price 60 cents each, postpaid. This handbook contains official instructions on Relief Society policies and procedure. It includes a detailed index for ready reference and will be invaluable to stake, ward, mission, and branch officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers. October Ts Forever Lizabeth Wall Here is a beauty for remembering: This moment-of-October, scarlet-still, This quiet time that holds no flight of wing — Nor any wind-song, wild from any hill. And I shall keep this peace to fold about Less lovely seasons I shall surely know: A young, uncertain springtime tinged with doubt, Or any winter, silent under snow. So let me etch upon my heart each leaf, Each arrowed shaft of sun upon the grass, To armor me against impending grief And warm me when these amber hours pass. Page 676
White September Ezra J. Poulsen CHAPTER 2
Synopsis: Against his will, Jim Bates finds himself again very much interested in Daphne Sommers when she returns to Knowlton after an absence of ten years. Jim, the town banker, worries about his assistant Tom Andrews, in love with Daphne's niece Mollie Dangerfield, who, like her Aunt Daphne, seems to have a frivolous disposition and seems to take life lightly.
Daphne goes to Jim's bank and borrows three thousand dollars, with the Sommers home as security, to send Mollie to Europe for the summer. "You'll ruin Mollie," Jim accuses, as Daphne leaves the bank. HE day seemed to drag out endlessly, and my mind underwent a slow process of disillusionment. My resolve to keep clear of Daphne melted like ice in the sun. It was evident she would cause our paths to cross whenever it suited her purpose. Already I could see I was involved in her schemes, and there was little I could do about it. At first, I thought I'd warn Tom, and urge him to fight back, but second thought made this seem foolish. I'd only get poor Tom into a worse fix than ever. As soon as the day's work was over, I saddled my horse and went for a ride. In Knowlton we don't play golf, but we do take pride in our horses. In fact, you might say we've carried the horse tradition down from cowboy days to the present sleek, polished riding club era. But, in my case, riding was a means of getting away by myself. It was a lonely habit, developed during my years of bachelorhood, and prompted by my inherent love for the hills west of Knowlton where I had hunted cows as a youngster. The hills, the valley, the lake—that was my world. Charger, my brown quarter horse, always followed the cow trail northward from Main Canyon through a low pass near the Ringel place, and headed toward the old Humming Bird mine when I gave him his head. I often rode that way because I liked' the view of the valley and Jake from the top of the hill. In my abstraction, I hadn't paid attention to my surroundings until a flock of magpies in the willows made me aware of the small stream running down from the snowbank at my right. 'The zest of late spring stirred my blood.
Throwing off my worries, I took a fleeting glance at the lake nestled in the southern end of the valley, then urged Charger to a gallop. He needed no more than a hint.
Down the hollow we raced toward Sleight's Canyon. We would soon pass the claim cabin on the Jaussi homestead, climb the flat beyond the Long Ridge, and finally reach the Little Valley reservoir from which we would swing back down to the county road, and home. I began to enjoy the stimulus of unconfined action, letting my fancy go completely free. I was almost reckless with speed as I whirled Charger into the canyon creek, dense with willows. But it all ended in a gasp of astonishment.
Charger collided in midstream with a little bay mare, just emerging from the thicket on the opposite side. The force of the impact threw the mare back a trifle on her haunches. I heard a woman scream and saw Page 677 ~ 
678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1950
Daphne Sommers' terrified face as we both reined sharply, our horses' hoofs rattling on the slippery stones. "Oh, Jim!" "Daphne!"
Both of us spoke with the sharp surprise of people who see the subject of their thoughts materialize before their eyes. "How did you get here?" I demanded. "Up Sleight's Canyon. And you?" "Came over from Main Canyon. I hope you're not hurt." I led her mare gently back to the green plot on the north side of the creek. "Oh, no, I'm all might," she replied in a shaky voice. "We really came head on, though, didn't we?" she added with a nervous - laugh. APHNE'S brown eyes reflected a challenging glint as she swept up the details of my careless, informal riding clothes. Instinctively I realized my khaki riding pants and shirt, together with my shapeless gray hat and high-top shoes were under her critical inspection, and the effect was to remind her that I was still a country boy. She'd always had a flare for clothes, I noted, glancing at her black doeskin breeches and shining russet boots. Her hair was mostly tucked out of sight under her jaunty blue riding cap; and over her cream satin blouse, She wore a trim red vest. She reminded me of a picture in a fashion magazine, but she affected me much more deeply. "How about riding up to the old mine with me?" I dared, remembering we had once gone up there together in our younger days. _ This pleased her. "Why, certainly!" We both knew the way. I let her lead out.
There was little said as we meandered through the aspens and elderberry bushes. But when we reached the mine, we became as playful as two children. She seemed as eager as I to refrain from mentioning the unpleasant past. We fed the wild chipmunks, explored the old bunkhouses, and peeked over the edge of the terrifying 'shaft, then threw rocks down it, and laughed as_ they echoed below. Finally, we stood together on the high, weed-grown dump, and looked down into the pleasant valley that had nurtured our childhood. Here, in one mighty surge of emotion, my love for Daphne returned. I could have taken her in my arms and kissed her and forgiven everything, promising to be her devoted slave forever.
Daphne must have surmised my threatened disintegration, for she tan down the dump to where the horses were waiting, challenging me to follow..
Springing on her mare, she started down the trail at a reckless speed. By the time we reached the reservoir, where the road was wide enough for us to ride side by side, our horses were both reeking with sweat, and we were serious. Then, I discovered what was on her mind. "Jim, I wish you'd do something about Tom Andrews," she complained. "He's making a perfect monkey of himself. At the party he was so jealous it was painful. To cap it all, he demanded his ring back last night. " If Daphne had deliberately chosen to make me angry, she couldn't WHITE SEPTEMBER have picked a better subject. "Surely—surely, you don't blame him," I snapped. "Mollie's been leading him around by the nose now for over'a year. And every day she gets more light-hearted and frivolous." "Well, can't he stand a little competition?
Must he lock her up like a cave man, and refuse to let her speak to anyone else?" "Possibly, that would be a good idea," I replied ungallantly. ""I'om's too good a boy to have her ruin his life. He's the best match she'll ever make. But he doesn't like to be kept dangling over a flame forever." APHNE'S eyes spit fire. "Oh, you men! 'T'om's all right. But he's a prude. He ought to marry a scrubwoman. I want to see Mollie happy. 'That's why I'm sending her to Europe where she can meet people and get an idea of what the world is like." "You're ruining Mollie. You're making her a worthless scatterbrain. Just—just..." I floundered. "Just like myself," she said slowly. My face reddened. "No. 'That's not what I was going to say," I denied lamely. But Daphne looked at me as if I'd struck her. In an instant, the buoyant, youthful quality which seemed to cling to her, almost as it did when she was twenty, faded. I could see she was suffering, but she took it with great calm. "All nght, Jim Bates, say it. You might as well. So I ran out on you. I was a muddle-headed flirt myself. I was fickle. I loved to keep men dangling. I had no emotional sta- 679 bility. All I thought of was clothes and parties. I was spoiled rotten!" Her voice brdke with a dry little sob, but she recovered in a split second. "Yes, and that's only half of it. I hated smug, stupid men. And—and—TI still do!" "Why have you interfered with Tom and Mollie?" I pleaded. "Can't you see you're breaking them up?" "Tf Tom can't wait a few months, he isn't much good. It's just that I don't want to see Mollie settle down and be a discontented wife all her life. I—I—want her to be the kind of wife I might have been," she added fiercely. "I want her to know her own heart."
After this, Daphne seemed unapproachable. I understood in a single moment of anguish why I had lost her.
Below the Long Ridge, we let our horses swing into a lazy lope, kicking up the dust which settled like a veil on the greenery of the hills, as we rode back to town. OLLIE Dangerfield left for Europe with a friend of Dahpne's, amid shouting and fanfare, just as Daphne had planned it. Tom Andrews was among the group of admirers who saw her oft at the depot, but he wasn't conspicuous in the role of lover. In fact, several other suitors were becoming bold since the fall of 'Tom; and when he came back to the bank he was very sober and tightlipped.
Knowlton settled back into its daily routine.
During the summer dancing parties at the lake took up a large share of the younger set's time, with many of the older folks 680 tagging along, presumably in the role of chaperons, but, actually, to enjoy the fun. The lake has always been one of. Our most popular attractions. Meanwhile, Daphne, with Mollie taken care of for the time being, turned her attention to another daring undertaking. She announced her intention to open a millinery and dress shop. A clear note of approval came from the younger set, for who would know about styles and such things better than Daphne Sommers? But a chorus of protests arose also from some quarters.
Some of these came from seamstresses who didn't want the competition.
Others came from mothers who didn't think Daphne's influence on their daughters was altogether good. She was worldly and extravagant, they said. Again Daphne came into the bank. "I don't want to borrow any more money," she declared, as if conscious of what was at the moment passing through my mind. "But, Jim, I would like your advice." I forced an uncomfortable laugh. ''As a banker?" I asked. "As a banker," she replied.
Seated again in my stuffy consultation room—it only seemed small and stuffy when she was in it —I listened while she explained her plans, "You—see—I learned to be a milliner after I tired of playing," she said in a tone which made me fee] this statement cost her much. Her voice was so low I could hardly hear her, and her eyes, quite unlike her, were riveted on the table. If my heart had gone overboard for her to my undoing, I was determined my banker's judgment - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1950 should not do likewise. _ Consequently, when I spoke, it was with a cold, professional air I was soon sorry for. "To be honest with you," I 'said, "IT don't see much of an opening here for a miulliner, and even less for a dress shop. You know, nearly everyone buys in the larger towns. That's especially true of the womCU "There's nothing here they can buy," she replied spiritedly. "I think I can draw people. And I know I can give them the best service." Suddenly I believed I saw something new in Daphne—something I'd never seen before, and had looked for in vain. It was a touch of humility. Was it possible she was a little afraid, and perhaps somewhat lonely? Unconsciously I must have let my face betray a touch of relief, which she promptly misinterpreted. "It isn't easy to come back and start all over again," she said. "But I'm going to do it." Her tone became militant. "I'm going to fight to my last breath to show people I'm not what they think I am." I loved her for those words. She had always been so glittering, so headstrong. Now, for an instant, she seemed at my level, a person needing companionship, advice, and sympathy.
Figuratively speaking, I began to discard my banker's mantle as quickly as possible. But I was too slow.
Those glorious eyes of Dahpne's flashed. "But why do I tell you these things? I might have known you wouldn't understand. You bankers—you have about as much understanding of human problems WHITE SEPTEMBER as a piece of pavement." She swept up her little silver-mounted handbag, and left my office. "Tl show you, Jim Bates. I'll make a success of business right here under your nose, right here in this poky little town. And I won't ask for another dime out of your precious bank, either." HE soft red plume on her hat seemed to bow mockingly at me as she went through the door, and her slender form for a moment impressed me with the perfection of her gray, pin-striped suit.
Daphne was devastating in her hats and suits; and her voice seemed to float back reproachfully to me from the corridor. A few days later, she opened her business in a small building on Main Street.
From then on she avoided me as I did her; and since the reports concerning her enterprise were confusing and contradictory, depending on the source _ from whence they came, I was unable to get a clear picture of her degree of success or failure. Secretly I hoped she'd fail, or at least not be successful enough to be able to go her own way independently.
This was mean of me, but the real reason was the hope that I might have a chance to help her. Not that I expected to play easy with the bank's money, for I had some of my own. It would have raised my self-esteem immeasurably to have let her have it, so I could feel she would not be able to ignore me. My difficulty with Daphne had always been that she had never seemed to need me; it had always been I who had needed her.
Rumor became current that she 681 had no money and was in debt, and that her business venture was but a forlorn effort to stave off bankruptcy. Of course the mortage on the Sommers home was a matter of common knowledge. You can't keep such things secret because they have to be recorded in the courthouse. It was frequently said she'd stay in Knowlton just long enough to have a final fling on the last of her father's: money, then she'd be gone. But she had her defenders, too, and most of them were her admirers and customers.
Whatever question had been raised on her solvency was quickly dispelled, when the first quarter's interest became due on her mortgage. She paid it promptly, adding a small token payment on the principal, but she avoided me when she came into the bank. Mollie Dangerfield's letters came pouring back to Knowlton, meanwhile, telling her friends of the wonderful things she was seeing and doing. Tom got his share of the letters, but never dropped me a hint as to what they contained, and I took his silence as evidence that he didn't want me to know. But, to my amazement, I noticed he was beginning to develop a very close friendship with Daphne. Frequently, I saw him with her in her roadster. She seemed to find any number of odd jobs for him to perform before and after his hours at the bank.
People began to talk. Maybe, Daphne was setting her cap for Tom.
After all, she was only five years older than he, and they looked wonderful together. By this time I realized I was suffering my sec ond heartache. (To be concluded) 
682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1950
Photograph, courtesy Cacia F. Margetts, President, Wells Stake Relief Society WELLS STAKE (UTAH) COMPLETES UNIQUE MAP PROJECT FOR THEIR 'MAGAZINE CAMPAIGN Seated, left to nght: Alice Esplin; Lucy Grames; Jennie Waldram. Standing, left to right: Stake Magazine representative Mabel Wood; Cleo Kelson; Merle Wennhold; Vera Bale; Leona Stoker.
Under the direction of Mabel Wood, stake Magazine representative, the seven wards of Wells Stake have completed a unique and useful project.
These detailed and accurate maps present the status of the Magazine campaign in a vivid and clear-cut manner, enabling the representatives to _ keep their records up-to-date and to become acquainted with all the families in each ward. —_- Keepers of the Hearth Ruth Harwood Throughout the passing of the ages Art, itself, has ever been a sacred fire Burning on the world's hearth of culture, With man, no longer stranger on the earth, But warmly homing in a shrine of beauty. You Can Learn M Gs for Money and Il Ys for Tleighbors Katherine Kelly HEN I told Tom that I W would help him so that he would never have to worry about money any more I meant it from the bottom of my heart. But it is funny how even mortgages don't mean a thing when you have a sick baby. As summer cooled, and the autumn days slipped by, my little girl grew fat and rosy, and gradually I remembered that I was supposed to be a wife and helpmate, as well as a mother. Tom never mentioned money matters, but that fall and winter he was feeding cattle again, and he watched the papers for the rise and fall of prices with quiet despera- 'tion. As I read or embroidered during the long winter evenings while the children slept, 1 wondered what I could do to help him.
What could a woman with two little children, out on a farm, do to make money? One day a woman asked me if I would consider making a dress for her.
That was the answer! I could sew! It was the one thing I was good at. The short winter days flew by, and even the evenings weren't long enough. I really loved to sew! For once spring came almost before I knew it. However, I did manage to plant a little garden and a row of my favorite pink sweet peas. Tom teased me about the sweet peas, but the water had to run down that row anyway. My Virginia creeper had lived through the winter and was reaching out strong, green shoots. Our little trees were big enough to make a patch of shade on the lawn, and it could be called a lawn. I sighed with contentment as I pushed the sewing machine in front of the window.
Everything was coming out all right. No one would believe Kathy had been a delicate baby to look at her now. She was the picture of health.
Really a picture, I thought, as the morning sunshine made a frame about her and Ernie as they played on the floor.
Ernie was diligently taking an old clock to pieces, and Kathy's little fat hands reached for the shiny pieces, but Ernie guarded them jealously. As I pulled my chair in place and started to thread the needle, there was a sudden commotion in the field next to us. 'There was our new neighbor driving his horses at a gallop and pulling a mowing machine into the field of hay. Instinctively, I hunched my shoulders and partly closed my eyes, expecting the crash to come any minute. It didn't come! 'The man lowered the hay knife and started up the side of the field, with his horses again at a gallop.
Through the open door came snatches of a song. "My Bonnie lies over tie oGean " I half rose to my feet and my mouth must have dropped very wide open, anyway later it was hard to shut.
What on earth kind of farmer was this? It was bad enough to have strangers move into Mary's Page 683 

684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1950 and Joe's place, but this man must have taken leave of his senses! Mrs. Darby, his wife, had told me that they moved here to get out of the mines, but surely even a miner knew better than to drive horses at a gallop when he was trying to cut hay! It was at this stage that I brought my jaws very firmly together and my lips drew into a thin line.
Ernie had deserted his precious clock and stood with me at the window. It was just as I stooped to save the clock from Kathy, or Kathy from the clock, that 1 heard the crash. By the time I was back to the window the horses were going off through the field dragging parts of the machinery with them. Mr.
Darby had picked himself up and was surveying his broken mowing machine. Well, it served him right. But I melted a little and walked to the fence with Kathy in my arms as I saw Mrs.
Darby run through the field to see if her husband was hurt.
Foolish as he was, there was something about his wife I couldn't help liking. Later, when she sank down on my porch steps all weak and shaking, I felt sorry for her. I asked her in the house and put a chair by the machine. We could talk while I sewed, for this getting tich by sewing was a slow enough process when I didn't waste any time. We talked about farms and mines and ended up, as women do, with men in general. Her sharp eyes watched me as I carefully arranged the black satin under the machine so that the painted design on the front would not get rubbed. "What on earth are you sewing on?" she finally burst forth, "that certainly isn't a dress for you?" "Oh, no, it's for one of mother's friends, see," I said as I proudly held it up for inspection. "I get paid more for my sewing because I can do this fabric painting for trimming. Isn't the silver pretty on black?" "Painting?" she asked incredulously. "Yes, I took a class in it at school, and I love it. I stenciled my own curtains, too, and I painted those bluebirds on the oilcloth." I was just warming up to my favorite subject when she stopped me with an astonished look and asked, "But how do you get time for all that sort of thing, and why do you waste time doing that when you are a farmer's wife?" "Tt isn't wasting time! I get paid more for my sewing because of the painting, and goodness knows, we can use the money.
Farming may be safer than mining, but there surely isn't much cash in it. I promised Tom I'd do what I could to make some money to pay on the mortgage this fall." _ | "Well of all things!" she said in astonishment, "and here they warned me that I musn't pattern after you, because you were such a poor farmer's wife!" My cheeks flamed and my lungs felt like they would burst. A poor farmer's wife! Again, and I had tried so hard!. "But why don't you help your husband like other farmer's wives do? Farmer's wives are supposed to do the milking and other chores, all the women out in Hardscrabble do.
That would help your husband more than all the sewing you can YOU CAN LEARN do. At it, anyway?" 6OVA7ELL, I only have seventeen - dollars in cash but And I did milk the cows while Tom was ill, but Tom doesn't want his wife to milk cows." "Fiddle, they all do. And what's seventeen dollars!'' she said scornfully. "Well, you can do things your way, but I'm going to raise a garden instead of flowers, do the chores, and raise some turkeys. Now there's an idea for you! Why don't you take your seventeen dollars and buy a start of turkeys?" Her eyes shone with enthusiasm and she hurried on, "I have an aunt out in Hardscrabbie who makes more money raising turkeys than her husband does on the farm. She is going to tell me just how to do it. I could tell you, and we could learn together." "But Mrs. Darby,' I said with dignity, "I hate turkeys! I can't even stand chickens, except I like to gather the eggs. Besides I'm allergic to feathers." "Stuff and nonsense," she said, making me look her straight in the eyes, "you just think you are too good to raise turkeys."