[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon LMA ELIZABETH MINEER FELT, ninety-five, died July 28th. A pioneer of 1861, Mrs. Felt gave devoted service to her Church as a guide on Temple Square, in the Mutual Improvement Association, and in the Relief Society, where she was active for forty years, serving twelve years as president of the Eleventh Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City. She directed plays and operas, was assistant wardrobe mistress of the Salt Lake Theater, and appeared in plays and choruses there. TAHR'S delegates to Girls Nation, in Washington, D. C., were two seventeen-year-old girls, Vanet Sorensen of Salt Lake City and Winona Crosby of St. George. 'This participation is a wonderful opportunity and should help develop leadership among American women. GHE probably never went to Girls State or Nation, nevertheless, attractive, feminine-looking Mrs. George H. Davis, only twenty-eight, and mother of three children, was elected mayor of Washington, Virginia, on an all-women slate, which defeated an all-male slate. 'The population of the town is 250. GTENA SCORUP of Salima, a Utah school teacher and the State's first woman mayor, died last summer.  Q—> EDITORIAL —~9 
VOL.  NO. 10
She Quest for Peace AT'TER-day Saints living today are seeing many prophecies related to the last days, coming to pass. One of them was stated by Isaiah in these words: "For the wisdom of their wise men shall perish and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid" (Isaiah 29:14).. - Recently a convention, participated in by men versed in the learning of the world, was held. The question which was discussed was the way to peace.
Many words were spoken and many viewpoints set forth and, although each person directed his remarks along the line in which he had spent.
Years of training, the results were negligible and even trivial. So seem the councils of men throughout the world, the wisdom of their wise men has perished. To a Latter-day Saint such groping for truth seems incredibly childish and futile. 'The Maker of heaven and earth has revealed truth to his children—it is available to all mankind.
There is the written word—"For verily the voice of the Lord is unto all men, and there is none to escape" (D. & C. 1:2); and there are the words of the Lord's living prophets, seers, and _ revelators.
Centuries ago Isaiah gave a recipe for peace: "And the work of righteousness shall be peace; and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance for ever. And my people  shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, and in sure dwellings, and in quiet resting places" (Isaiah 32:17-18). On -the contrary, he declared, "There: is no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked" (Isaiah 48:22). We read in modern scripture, "We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life." -In view of present conditions throughout much of the world, it is not to be wondered at that the Lord, in 1831, declared, "The hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his dominions." The words of the living prophets warn the inhabitants of the earth that only through righteousness, through repentance and_ turning from evil, may peace again be established. | The contemplation of the fulfillment of such prophecies should, however, bring not despair but hope and joy to the Latter-day Saint who prays daily, "Thy kingdom come. 'Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven." All inhabitants of the world are subject to the irrevocable laws of a just God. As men sow, so shall they reap, for the Lord has said, "What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken... And EDITORIAL though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled." The Latter-day Saint knows the voice of his Shepherd and puts his trust in his peace: "These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace" (John 16:33); "And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep 675 your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus" (Phil. 4:7).
Though this might be the time when peace shall be taken from the earth, the time when the rains descend, and the floods come, and the winds blow, yet the spirit of the righteous man need not fail, for the peace of God will keep his heart and mind. —M. CS. Once A. Gain Grace M. Candland Once again the hillside leaves are turning, The harvest crops are safe in pit and barn; Sumacs have begun their annual burning, And crisping air has drifted in to warn Of coming frost.
Then chestnut burs release Their shining seed, the orchard yield will fall, The song of bird and insect chirp will cease, Squadrons of geese repeat their parting call. The summer's growth will turn to final mold To loam the soil for future bud and bloom; In quiet majesty the year grows old— The ceaseless change of nature's magic loom. We welcome autumn days devoid of stress And gather to our hearts their loveliness. October Winds Rose Thomas Graham October winds croon sleepy lullabies To nodding summer flowers and drooping trees; And frost-kissed leaves like winging butterflies Play tag, suspended in the autumn breeze, Then stamp upon the grass a Persian shawl, Or bank the fence in ornamental frieze.
Bared branches gently scrape the garden wall, With slender fingers tap the windowpane; Birds, flying south, send back a parting call.
Deserted nests hang heavy in the rain On limbs that bow to winters, overlong.
Sweet dreams attend; it will be spring again.
Guchantment in Ouds Elaine Swain Each day I walk a country lane That creeps between the hills, To gather rust and golden leaves A giant elm tree spills.
Each day I haunt October, Trace her footprints, search her lair To find new pools of sunshine Her magic has laid bare.
Each day—come summer, winter, spring, I revel in the fall, For, captured fast on canvas, Autumn hangs upon my wall! Ylotes
10 THE FIELD Request for Copies of 'She Womans &xponent b The General Board wishes to secure copies of The Woman's Exponent in order that a duplicate set of these magazines may be available for safekeeping and for reference in the general office of the Relief Society.
It is requested that anyone having copies of any issue of the Exponent who would like to present them to the organization, please send them to: General Board of Relief Society, 40
North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. 'Relief Society Handbook Available The Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society is available at the office of the General Board, 40
North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, price 60 cents each, postpaid. This handbook contains official instructions on Relief Society policies and procedure. It includes a detailed index for ready reference and will be invaluable to stake, ward, mission, and branch officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers. October Ts Forever Lizabeth Wall Here is a beauty for remembering: This moment-of-October, scarlet-still, This quiet time that holds no flight of wing — Nor any wind-song, wild from any hill. And I shall keep this peace to fold about Less lovely seasons I shall surely know: A young, uncertain springtime tinged with doubt, Or any winter, silent under snow. So let me etch upon my heart each leaf, Each arrowed shaft of sun upon the grass, To armor me against impending grief And warm me when these amber hours pass. Page 676
White September Ezra J. Poulsen CHAPTER 2
Synopsis: Against his will, Jim Bates finds himself again very much interested in Daphne Sommers when she returns to Knowlton after an absence of ten years. Jim, the town banker, worries about his assistant Tom Andrews, in love with Daphne's niece Mollie Dangerfield, who, like her Aunt Daphne, seems to have a frivolous disposition and seems to take life lightly.
Daphne goes to Jim's bank and borrows three thousand dollars, with the Sommers home as security, to send Mollie to Europe for the summer. "You'll ruin Mollie," Jim accuses, as Daphne leaves the bank. HE day seemed to drag out endlessly, and my mind underwent a slow process of disillusionment. My resolve to keep clear of Daphne melted like ice in the sun. It was evident she would cause our paths to cross whenever it suited her purpose. Already I could see I was involved in her schemes, and there was little I could do about it. At first, I thought I'd warn Tom, and urge him to fight back, but second thought made this seem foolish. I'd only get poor Tom into a worse fix than ever. As soon as the day's work was over, I saddled my horse and went for a ride. In Knowlton we don't play golf, but we do take pride in our horses. In fact, you might say we've carried the horse tradition down from cowboy days to the present sleek, polished riding club era. But, in my case, riding was a means of getting away by myself. It was a lonely habit, developed during my years of bachelorhood, and prompted by my inherent love for the hills west of Knowlton where I had hunted cows as a youngster. The hills, the valley, the lake—that was my world. Charger, my brown quarter horse, always followed the cow trail northward from Main Canyon through a low pass near the Ringel place, and headed toward the old Humming Bird mine when I gave him his head. I often rode that way because I liked' the view of the valley and Jake from the top of the hill. In my abstraction, I hadn't paid attention to my surroundings until a flock of magpies in the willows made me aware of the small stream running down from the snowbank at my right. 'The zest of late spring stirred my blood.
Throwing off my worries, I took a fleeting glance at the lake nestled in the southern end of the valley, then urged Charger to a gallop. He needed no more than a hint.
Down the hollow we raced toward Sleight's Canyon. We would soon pass the claim cabin on the Jaussi homestead, climb the flat beyond the Long Ridge, and finally reach the Little Valley reservoir from which we would swing back down to the county road, and home. I began to enjoy the stimulus of unconfined action, letting my fancy go completely free. I was almost reckless with speed as I whirled Charger into the canyon creek, dense with willows. But it all ended in a gasp of astonishment.
Charger collided in midstream with a little bay mare, just emerging from the thicket on the opposite side. The force of the impact threw the mare back a trifle on her haunches. I heard a woman scream and saw Page 677 ~ 
678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1950
Daphne Sommers' terrified face as we both reined sharply, our horses' hoofs rattling on the slippery stones. "Oh, Jim!" "Daphne!"
Both of us spoke with the sharp surprise of people who see the subject of their thoughts materialize before their eyes. "How did you get here?" I demanded. "Up Sleight's Canyon. And you?" "Came over from Main Canyon. I hope you're not hurt." I led her mare gently back to the green plot on the north side of the creek. "Oh, no, I'm all might," she replied in a shaky voice. "We really came head on, though, didn't we?" she added with a nervous - laugh. APHNE'S brown eyes reflected a challenging glint as she swept up the details of my careless, informal riding clothes. Instinctively I realized my khaki riding pants and shirt, together with my shapeless gray hat and high-top shoes were under her critical inspection, and the effect was to remind her that I was still a country boy. She'd always had a flare for clothes, I noted, glancing at her black doeskin breeches and shining russet boots. Her hair was mostly tucked out of sight under her jaunty blue riding cap; and over her cream satin blouse, She wore a trim red vest. She reminded me of a picture in a fashion magazine, but she affected me much more deeply. "How about riding up to the old mine with me?" I dared, remembering we had once gone up there together in our younger days. _ This pleased her. "Why, certainly!" We both knew the way. I let her lead out.
There was little said as we meandered through the aspens and elderberry bushes. But when we reached the mine, we became as playful as two children. She seemed as eager as I to refrain from mentioning the unpleasant past. We fed the wild chipmunks, explored the old bunkhouses, and peeked over the edge of the terrifying 'shaft, then threw rocks down it, and laughed as_ they echoed below. Finally, we stood together on the high, weed-grown dump, and looked down into the pleasant valley that had nurtured our childhood. Here, in one mighty surge of emotion, my love for Daphne returned. I could have taken her in my arms and kissed her and forgiven everything, promising to be her devoted slave forever.
Daphne must have surmised my threatened disintegration, for she tan down the dump to where the horses were waiting, challenging me to follow..
Springing on her mare, she started down the trail at a reckless speed. By the time we reached the reservoir, where the road was wide enough for us to ride side by side, our horses were both reeking with sweat, and we were serious. Then, I discovered what was on her mind. "Jim, I wish you'd do something about Tom Andrews," she complained. "He's making a perfect monkey of himself. At the party he was so jealous it was painful. To cap it all, he demanded his ring back last night. " If Daphne had deliberately chosen to make me angry, she couldn't WHITE SEPTEMBER have picked a better subject. "Surely—surely, you don't blame him," I snapped. "Mollie's been leading him around by the nose now for over'a year. And every day she gets more light-hearted and frivolous." "Well, can't he stand a little competition?
Must he lock her up like a cave man, and refuse to let her speak to anyone else?" "Possibly, that would be a good idea," I replied ungallantly. ""I'om's too good a boy to have her ruin his life. He's the best match she'll ever make. But he doesn't like to be kept dangling over a flame forever." APHNE'S eyes spit fire. "Oh, you men! 'T'om's all right. But he's a prude. He ought to marry a scrubwoman. I want to see Mollie happy. 'That's why I'm sending her to Europe where she can meet people and get an idea of what the world is like." "You're ruining Mollie. You're making her a worthless scatterbrain. Just—just..." I floundered. "Just like myself," she said slowly. My face reddened. "No. 'That's not what I was going to say," I denied lamely. But Daphne looked at me as if I'd struck her. In an instant, the buoyant, youthful quality which seemed to cling to her, almost as it did when she was twenty, faded. I could see she was suffering, but she took it with great calm. "All nght, Jim Bates, say it. You might as well. So I ran out on you. I was a muddle-headed flirt myself. I was fickle. I loved to keep men dangling. I had no emotional sta- 679 bility. All I thought of was clothes and parties. I was spoiled rotten!" Her voice brdke with a dry little sob, but she recovered in a split second. "Yes, and that's only half of it. I hated smug, stupid men. And—and—TI still do!" "Why have you interfered with Tom and Mollie?" I pleaded. "Can't you see you're breaking them up?" "Tf Tom can't wait a few months, he isn't much good. It's just that I don't want to see Mollie settle down and be a discontented wife all her life. I—I—want her to be the kind of wife I might have been," she added fiercely. "I want her to know her own heart."
After this, Daphne seemed unapproachable. I understood in a single moment of anguish why I had lost her.
Below the Long Ridge, we let our horses swing into a lazy lope, kicking up the dust which settled like a veil on the greenery of the hills, as we rode back to town. OLLIE Dangerfield left for Europe with a friend of Dahpne's, amid shouting and fanfare, just as Daphne had planned it. Tom Andrews was among the group of admirers who saw her oft at the depot, but he wasn't conspicuous in the role of lover. In fact, several other suitors were becoming bold since the fall of 'Tom; and when he came back to the bank he was very sober and tightlipped.
Knowlton settled back into its daily routine.
During the summer dancing parties at the lake took up a large share of the younger set's time, with many of the older folks 680 tagging along, presumably in the role of chaperons, but, actually, to enjoy the fun. The lake has always been one of. Our most popular attractions. Meanwhile, Daphne, with Mollie taken care of for the time being, turned her attention to another daring undertaking. She announced her intention to open a millinery and dress shop. A clear note of approval came from the younger set, for who would know about styles and such things better than Daphne Sommers? But a chorus of protests arose also from some quarters.
Some of these came from seamstresses who didn't want the competition.
Others came from mothers who didn't think Daphne's influence on their daughters was altogether good. She was worldly and extravagant, they said. Again Daphne came into the bank. "I don't want to borrow any more money," she declared, as if conscious of what was at the moment passing through my mind. "But, Jim, I would like your advice." I forced an uncomfortable laugh. ''As a banker?" I asked. "As a banker," she replied.
Seated again in my stuffy consultation room—it only seemed small and stuffy when she was in it —I listened while she explained her plans, "You—see—I learned to be a milliner after I tired of playing," she said in a tone which made me fee] this statement cost her much. Her voice was so low I could hardly hear her, and her eyes, quite unlike her, were riveted on the table. If my heart had gone overboard for her to my undoing, I was determined my banker's judgment - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1950 should not do likewise. _ Consequently, when I spoke, it was with a cold, professional air I was soon sorry for. "To be honest with you," I 'said, "IT don't see much of an opening here for a miulliner, and even less for a dress shop. You know, nearly everyone buys in the larger towns. That's especially true of the womCU "There's nothing here they can buy," she replied spiritedly. "I think I can draw people. And I know I can give them the best service." Suddenly I believed I saw something new in Daphne—something I'd never seen before, and had looked for in vain. It was a touch of humility. Was it possible she was a little afraid, and perhaps somewhat lonely? Unconsciously I must have let my face betray a touch of relief, which she promptly misinterpreted. "It isn't easy to come back and start all over again," she said. "But I'm going to do it." Her tone became militant. "I'm going to fight to my last breath to show people I'm not what they think I am." I loved her for those words. She had always been so glittering, so headstrong. Now, for an instant, she seemed at my level, a person needing companionship, advice, and sympathy.
Figuratively speaking, I began to discard my banker's mantle as quickly as possible. But I was too slow.
Those glorious eyes of Dahpne's flashed. "But why do I tell you these things? I might have known you wouldn't understand. You bankers—you have about as much understanding of human problems WHITE SEPTEMBER as a piece of pavement." She swept up her little silver-mounted handbag, and left my office. "Tl show you, Jim Bates. I'll make a success of business right here under your nose, right here in this pok