[Social Science: Evil Forces in the World by Archibald F. Bennett]

social science lesson in May 1950. She spoke before the Relief Society women of Nevada Stake. She stressed the importance of the social science lessons and discussed conditions in Germany and Austria. A convert to the Church, and a war bride, Sister Clyde expressed her great appreciation for her new home in America. She was accompanied to Nevada Stake by Sister Stobbe. Bottom photograph, officers of McGill Ward Relief Society, assembled at their annual bazaar, left to nght: work meeting leader, Finis Crane; Counselor Leona Johnson; President Pearl Johnson; work director Sue Anderson; Secretary Bernice Roy Lance. _ This bazaar was held in connection with a very successful food sale, and the funds raised were used to purchase a new electric range for the chapel kitchen. Koa Taylor is president of Nevada Stake Relief Society. Ah LS EY bee © Rs tate Photograph submitted by Florence Pace CARBON STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED MORE THAN TWENTY-FIVE YEARS HONORED, June 2, 1950
Seated, in front, left to nght: Sarah Jane Warren of the Price Fourth Ward; Margaret Ann Horsley of the Price First Ward; Jane Morley, Price Fourth Ward; Harriet Pierce, Wellington Ward. Fifty copies of A Centenary of Relief Society, and sixteen Relief Society pins were given to the visiting teachers in recognition and appreciation of their many years of faithful service. Florence Pace is president of Carbon Stake Relief Society. 
692 
Photograph submitted by Leone R. Bowring TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, MONROE (LOUISIANA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL BANQUET Front row, left to right: Truena Love; Lillian Smith, First Counselor; La Faye Hudnall, President;. Doris Tynes; Leila Crider, Second Counselor; Francis Monk, Secretary; Barbara Hatcher, district visiting teacher leader. Second row, left to right: Phyllis Earl; Margaret Riser; Irma Crider; Cecile Rugg; Anne Bivins; Alice Hollman; Dovie Lawsoh; Martha Tucker; Hazel Stokes; Marcile Roberts. Leone R. Bowring is president of the Texas-Louisiana Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Maurine Nelson STAR VALLEY STAKE (WYOMING) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, May 21, 1950
Stake board members, appearing in the picture, are: Second Counselor and organist, Ressa Chadwick, second from the right in the front row; stake chorister Lily Jensen, at the right in the first row; pianist Ada Gamm, at the right on the second row; stake board member Leola Allred, third from the left on the third row; stake board member Rula Crook, second from the right on the fourth row; Stake President Nellie B. Jensen, fifth from the right on the back row. Some of these women traveled as far as fifty miles to sing with the group for stake conference.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 693
Photograph submitted by Almina Coody NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, NORTH FRESNO BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN PARTICIPATE IN RUGMAKING PROJECT Front row, left to right: Val Stringfellow; Hazel Forrest; Elizabeth Faulkner; Lyle Coombs; Nellie Atwood; Eunice Ellefsen; Doris Hardy; DeLoris Fawns; Gladys Dinestead., Second row, left to right: Sarah Sessions; Annette Crain; Aileen Robinson; Lydia McCauley; Dagmar Steele; Gladys Hansen; Frances Allred; Alberta Ledbetter. Third row, left to right: Goldie Nelson; Alvera Hatch; Marinda Berg; Myrtle Butler; Twila Horn; Elda Petty; Ann Ferguson; Hazel Hopkins. Fourth row, left to right: Ruby Enns; Charlotte Taylor; Hilda Agar; Darlene Anderson; Leah Hansen; Helen Lambourne; President Almina Coody. During the summer of 1949, Lydia McCauley, who was then branch Relief Society 'president, taught a group of women the art of making hooked rugs. When the problem of buying a rug for the Relief Society room in the new chapel presented itself, Sister McCauley conceived the idea of making a hooked rug large enough to cover the room from wall to wall, the actual size being fifty-four square yards. First a pattern was chosen and then drawn on twenty pieces of monk's cloth. These were tacked to frames and stretched, then delivered to the homes of the women who were to hook the rugs. Woolen materials were collected from members, and some materials were purchased. The total cost was sixty-seven dollars. When the finished pieces were collected they were steam pressed and trimmed and finally taken to the Relief Society room where the pieces were sewn together by hand. The photograph shows a part of the rug. Aig P. Gardner is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. A Are you not dependent on your faith, or belief, for the acquisition of all knowledge, wisdom, and intelligence?... Would you have ever sown, if you had not believed that you would reap? Would you have ever planted, if you had not believed that you would gather?.... Or, would you have ever knocked, unless you had believed that it would have been opened unto you? In a word, is there anything you would have done, either physical or mental, if you had not previously believed? Are not all your exertions of every kind, dependent on your faith? (Lectures on Faith 1:11) 
694 
Home Is Where You Make It (Continued from page 667) wouldn't object to a tiny, newborn baby." "Oh, wouldn't I?" smiled the landlord, and switched off the light and turned toward the door. "Little tiny, newborn babies grow up into yelling, howling infants, and then into noisy, rowdy, destructive kids. And it's too hard to get tenants out. Nope."!
Helping her into the car, Hal said, "You didn't have to tell him, Cherry." "Yes, I did," she answered, and sat silent while they drove back to the hotel. The next day, as soon as Hal had gone, Cherry went to the phone and dialed her mother's number. "Mother," she said sweetly, "I'm giving up. No luck, darling.
Will it put you out too much, Mother? I mean, may we come back?" "Oh, darling!" Her mother sounded genuinely regretful. "I wish you could! But Helen Gray called me yesterday—she hasn't a place to go, you know—they sold the house right over their heads—their landlord did, I mean. And_ she seemed so lost and helpless and so desperate to find a place. I told her to come out and look at your old room—and she did—and she is moving her things in tonight. Oh, darling, I'm so sorry; Daddy will be furious. But Hal said you were going to find something.". "Tt's okay, Mother," Cherry aged. "I'm glad. It's Helen." "So am I," her mother sighed. "She will be company for me. I'll confess I've missed you two chilman- 'dren more than I ever dreamed I would, but I know it's for the best." HE had to tell Hal, and she did it as courageously as she could. "T was a fool, Hal, a silly, spoiled little fool. I didn't have any sense. Oh, what if mother did try to punish me in the old way—maybe, like you said, she wasn't even trying to. Hal, she didn't even sound mad at me." "She isn't mad, darling. She's a peach." "What did you tell her, Hal, exactly?", "T didn't tell her how you said you felt toward her. I just said we were going to stay in town.
Till we found a place. But I guess she knew." "I guess she did," Cherry murmured thoughtfully. "Where do we go from here?"
They packed their suitcase, which Hal had gone back home and brought Cherry that first day they had spent in town.
They went downstairs and paid their bill, and Hal tucked it into his pocket, refusing to let Cherry get a glimpse of it.
They got into the car. "Let's try a 'motor court," he suggested. "hat wouldn't be so expensive."
Cherry sat very still beside Hal as he drove out to the south of town.
Motor court after motor court they passed, each with a sign, "No Vacancy." 'Then they came to one that had no such sign, but when Hal went into the office and talked to the clerk, he came out again, ~ HOME IS WHERE YOU MAKE IT grim and silent, and they drove on. "Hal," Cherry said timidly, "any place would do—any at all. You've - got to get some sleep. You have to work tomorrow." "Not that place, honey," he said shortly. "Drive home, Hal," she said at last, wearily. "I'll get Mother to let us spread a blanket on the basement floor.
After all, even that is better than anything we've seen." Hal looked at her. "You sure you want to, darling? If we go back, we'll probably have to stay until after the baby is born. There'll be lots of things..." "There'd be lots of things anywhere, Hal,' Cherry answered, speaking slowly. "Lots of things that would be harder to bear than Mother's little peculiarities—lots of things that would be worse for our son than a doting grandmother and grandfather." When Hal kissed her, Cherry thought she saw diamonds on his lashes, and her own throat grew tight. He really liked her folks, he really liked living there. Her parents were sitting in the porch swing when they drove into the yard. "Darling!" her mother cried, jumping up and running toward her.
Cherry threw herself into her mother's arms, as if she had been gone a year instead of four days. "Oh, Mother!" she whispered. "Oh, Mother, I'm glad to be home!" 695
Her father was' standing there, smiling foolishly, cheerfully. "Dad," she cried, and gave him a quick hug. Then she said bravely, "Mother, Dad, may Hal and I come back? Oh, I know about Helen," she interrupted, "but we'll be glad to stay anywhere. In the basernent, maybe. 'There's that old army cot we used to take camping, and dad's bedroll. We can fix a place—anything for tonight—and tomorrow we can fix something. We'll try not to be too much bother." "Cherry, darling, listen!' Her mother made herself heard. "Your old room is all ready. Helen isn't coming, after all. I phoned her and she said Ted's mother would take them in." "Oh, Mother!'"' Cherry couldn't say any more for a minute. Thien she turned to Hal. "You see before you the world's most foolish girl, transformed in one hard lesson into a wise woman." "T've some lemonade and ginger cookies ready," her mother said, "sit down and I'll get them." Cherry nuzzled close to her father, and his hand went out and touched her arm, gently, understandingly. Suddenly Cherry won- -dered about Helen Gray, about her own room being ready. But as she had just said, she was a wise woman now. She snuggled close, and shut her mouth tight like her Mother did. -—_- "This is the true nature of home—it is the place of Peace; the shelter, not only from all injury, but from all doubt and division." —John Ruskin LESSON = {iE} DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 28—"The Resurrection and the Ascension" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, chapter 37.) For Tuesday, January 2, 1951
Objective: To create faith in the power of Jesus Christ over death and to show that his resurrection and ascension were real. Christ Is Risen OMETIME before dawn on the most memorable and the most important Sunday in history, an angel came down in glory. And rolled back the stone from the portal of the Savior's tomb. 'The Roman soldiers were so paralyzed with fear that they fell to earth asdead men. As soon as they regained sufficient strength, they deserted their posts and fled.
Ordinarily such desertion was punishable by death. The seal of authority had been broken; the tomb was empty.
Very early in the morning, Mary | Magdalene and other devout women came to assist in further anointing the body of the Lord. 'They brought spices and ointments according to the custom of that day. No doubt, they intended to supplement the work so hurriedly done by Joseph and Nicodemus.
They said among themselves as_ they walked: "Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre?"
They were afraid when  they saw the angel, but he spoke to them saying: Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. And go quickly, and' tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you (Matt. 28:5-7). It seemed difficult even for the followers of Jesus to realize the literalness of the resurrection.
Although she had heard the angel direct her to go and tell the disciples that he had risen, Mary Magdalene still told Peter and others that they had taken the Lord out of the sepulchre. It is noticeable that a devout group of women were first apprised of the resurrection of Jesus. Naturally, Peter and "that other disciple," probably John, hurried to the sepulchre and discovered that it was empty.
They found the linen which had been wrapped around Jesus' head and body.
Note the details of the account.
Having seen these things, John believed. L69 @60q LSIYHO FHL (¥68I-FZ81) WueMZoH] Aq BuNUIeG & wWorq PINT Allag yw 698 He explains, in behalf of himself and the other apostles, "For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead." Now he believed.
These two then departed, but Mary Magdalene lingered. She looked into the tomb and there saw two personages.
They asked: "Woman, why weepest thou?" She replied sorrowfully: "Because they have taken away my Lord, and I.
Know not where they have laid him." As she turned from the tomb she saw a personage who made almost the same inquiry: "Woman, why weepest thou?
Whom seekest thou?" It was Jesus speaking, but Mary did not recognize him until in familiar tones he said: "Mary." Then, she turned herself and said "Rabboni," Master. In an ecstasy of joy she would have embraced him, but he restrained her and said: Touch me not; (In revised version, "Take not hold of me") for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God (John 20:11-17). It is worthwhile to consider that to a woman was given the honor of being first to see a resurrected soul -—the Lord Jesus. He manifested himself to at least three other faithful women before he appeared to his apostles. An angel of the Lord also appeared to these women near the empty sepulchre and proclaimed to them the glorious tidings: "He is not here: for he is risen."
Jesus met these women on the way back to Jerusalem, "And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him" (Matt. 28:10). The resurrection. 
Between his meeting Mary Magdalene and the event just mentioned, Jesus had probably been to see his Father.
When the women told their surprising story to the disciples, the brethren could not believe them.
Even the apostles could not accept the actuality of They seemed to have looked upon it as something for the distant future.
After all, there was nothing in their experiences or history with which they could compare it. A man had lived among them. He ate with them, ' mingled with them, taught them, and had been put to death before the eyes of many of them. Now he was with them again in a real body of flesh and bone.
While the apostles doubted, the women knew.
They had seen and heard him; they had touched that sacred. Body.
They knew their Redeemer lived. A Priestly Conspiracy of Falsehood It will be recalled that many of the chief priests were Sadducees who did not believe in the resurrection from the dead.
When the Roman soldiers who had guarded the sepulchre reported to them the supernatural things they had seen, a meeting of the Sanhedrin was called and the disturbing report was considered. 'The high priests - decided upon a scheme and offered the soldiers large sums of money to say, "His disciples came by night, | and stole him away while we slept." The soldiers accepted the proposal as the best way out of their dilemma. So the wicked story went abroad among the Jews. However, many accepted the evidence of the resurrection and openly joined the LESSON DEPARTMENT Church.
Even many of the priests "were obedient to the faith" (Acts Om). - ) Christ Walks and Talks with Two of the Disciples _ The Lord appeared to various of his disciples so that the evidence of his resurrection does nat come to us from only a few favored ones. Two believers, but who evidently were not apostles, left Jerusalem for Emmaus that fateful Sunday afternoon. One of the brethren was named Cleopas. The distance' was about seven miles and they had time for conversation on the one topic uppermost in the minds of all the disciples. As they earnestly talked, another personage joined them.
Soon he asked of the two: "What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?"
Cleopas replied: "Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days?" It was Jesus who walked with the two. In sorrow they told him of the great work done by the Messiah and how the tulers and high priests had put him to death.
They further told him that "certain women" had visited the sepulchre that morning and that an angel had told them that Jesus was alive, and the tomb was empty.
Jesus chided these men for being slow of heart to believe all that the prophets had spoken; and explained to them the scriptures concerning his mission. He accepted their urgent invitation to enter the house to which they were going and, as the guest of honor, he took the prof- 699 fered loaf, "blessed it, and brake, and gave to them. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him, and he vanished out of their sight."
They quickly returned to Jerusalem and added their testimonies to the tapidly growing number who had seen the risen Redeemer (Luke 24:19-33). The Risen Lord Appears to the Disciples in Jerusalem and Eats in Their Presence. The faithful followers in Jerusalem met frequently in solemn assemblies. The testimonies of the two returning brethren from Emmaus were related to the group who were meeting behind closed doors.
Peter also had a visit from the Master. We may be sure that a great change had come over the now repentant Peter. He had every reason to know that he was forgiven for his weakness in denying that he knew Jesus.
Never again did he shrink from danger in giving his testimony concerning Jesus, the Son of God.
While the disciples were in the meeting listening to Cleopas and his companion, "Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you." 'They were afraid at first but the Lord spoke to them saying: "Why are ye troubled? And why do thoughts arise in your hearts?
Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.' He was no "shadowy form" but a living being with a real body. To convince them more of his reality he asked for meat. He took the broiled fish 700 and other food which they passed to him "and did eat before them" (Luke 24:42-43).
Could anything be more real? In addition to all this he again left his peace with them, and "breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost: Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained" (John 20:21-23).
This must not be mistaken for the endowment or gift of the Holy Ghost at Pentecost which will be discussed in our next lesson. Doubting Thomas Thomas, one of the apostles, was not present at the evening meeting on the Resurrection Sunday. At first he did not believe the testimony of those who had seen and heard the Lord. He said: "Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my _ finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe." 'There are many "doubting Thomases" today, many who insist that we must see before we know. Thomas, no doubt, had but little confidence in the women, in Peter, and in the larger group at the meeting. He wanted to see and touch the resurrected body of flesh and bones. It was some eight days later or the next Sunday when Thomas assembled with the disciples.
Then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you.
Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side; and be not faithless, but believing. 
The 
Thomas was convinced. He exclaimed: "My Lord and my God." Jesus told him that because he had seen it he had believed, but blessed are they that have not seen and yet. Believe. (Read John 20:24-28.) At the Sea of Galilee Obedient to instruction, the apostles left Jerusalem about a week after the resurrection and went into Galilee. While they were waiting for further instructions, seven of them went fishing one evening. In fact, they worked all night and had not caught any fish. As they came back at early dawn, a voice from the shore called to them: "Children, have ye any meat." (In those days salutation, "children" was equivalent to our use of "sirs" or "men.") Jesus had made the inquiry and they replied "No." They did not recognize him and he said to them: "Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find." They did this and caught more fish than they could draw into the boat. John was the first to recognize the Lord. He said unto Peter: "It is the Lord." "Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of great fishes." 'The men recognized the miracle as the net did not break because of the overload. Jesus had already built a fire and laid fish on it for them. 'This was the third time that the Lord had shown himself to this group (John 21:3-14). It was the seventh time he had appeared since his resurrection. After the meal was finished, the great 'Teacher gave one of his wonderful lessons: "Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?'"' Three LESSON DEPARTMENT times, in substance, this question was asked of Peter. Each time the apostle replied: "Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee." The first time Jesus answered and said to Peter, "Feed my lambs," and the second and third time the question was asked, Jesus said: "Feed my sheep" (John 21:15-17). - How impressive the lesson! Peter was receiving a great commission. John tells us that the Lord indicated to Peter that he would be called on to suffer a martyr's death for the truth (John 21:18-19). Peter also later referred to it (2
Peter 1:14). It was upon this occasion that Jesus also made reference concerning John's future: If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me. Then went this saying abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto him, He shall not die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? (John a 22°29). Later revelation tells us that John still remains in the flesh (D. & C. Section 7). Jesus also met his apostles on a mountain in Galilee. Others were also present at that meeting (Matt. 28:16-18). The Final Commission and_ the Ascension From the scriptures we learn that Jesus made at least eleven appearances at various times between his resurrection and ascension. There can be no doubt but that he gave many instructions on "the things pertaining to the kingdom of God" (Acts 1:3). Of course, many things he said are not recorded. John tells us that the things that 701 are recorded, "... Are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name" (John 20:31). Some of these instructions were to the apostles. Unto them he said: "... Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned." He then promised that signs and blessings should be given to the believers (Mark 16:15-18; see also Matt. 28:19-20). The final hours of the Savior upon earth in that great dispensation were drawing to a close. He told the apostles they were not to know the time when his kingdom would finally be restored. 'That was known only to the Father. 'The Holy Ghost would lead them in their great missions of preaching the gospel. They journeyed on until they came to Bethany. The Lord then blessed them and ascended into heaven. As he arose a cloud received him out of their sight. While they stood gazing into heaven, two personages, robed in white, spoke to them, saying: "Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven (Acts 1:11). Note the naturalness and the realness of the event, "Shall so come in like manner." It would not be as a great universal, immaterial spirit that he would come, but as the material being who was resurrected— an immortal, celestialized body of flesh and bones. 702
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. Sometime during the meeting at which this lesson is studied, it would be very appropriate to sing, I Know That My Redeemer Lives. 2. Discuss the events leading to the resurrection. Why is it one of the most important events of all times? 3. What convinces you that the resurrection was and is a reality?  4. Describe the ascension. In what form will Christ come the second' time? References in the Gospels Matt. 10:5, 6; 24:36; 26:32, 33, 70, 72, 74; 27:65, 66; 28:1-7, g, 10-20. Mark 13:32; 14:28, 29; 16:1-18. Luke 5:4-10; 22:33; 24:1-51. John 12:42; 13:37; 14:16, 17, 26; 15:26; 16:7, 13; 20:1-31; 21:1-23. (siting Seacher ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 12—"For What Shall It Profit a Man, If He Shall Gain the Whole World, and Lose His Own Soul?" (Mark 8:36). Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, January 2, 1951
Objective: To stress that the chief aim of life should be the saving of the soul of man. O make New Year resolutions is an old-fashioned idea, but a good one. For how can we develop if we do not make a conscious effort to do so, and when could a more logical time be found to take stock of ourselves, with a view to improvement, than at the commencement of the year?
Good resolves made at any time are worthwhile (provided, of course, that they are followed with purposeful action) but, to repeat, they are particularly so at New Year's. — Some people consider it unnecessary to pursue a concerted effort in character development, preferring just to drift along in their day-byday living, and yet, as one writer says, "Man is the master of thought, the moulder of character, the maker and shaper of condition, environment, and destiny."
Even those thoughtless or careless individuals referred to, if contemplating the building of a tangible structure, would not think of commencing it without a well-formulated plan. The gospel might be termed a blueprint of our Heavenly Father's plan of life. It was to impress upon us that the enticements of the world will lead us away from God's plan, that our Savior asked the question, "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" (Mark 8:36).
From the time of our first parents, we have had to meet and overcome the temptations of the world.
Even the Savior was tempted of Satan, LESSON DEPARTMENT who promised him the kingdoms of earth and the glories thereof if he would but worship him. In our own time, we must be conscious of the false gods that beckon to entice us away from right living. One of these might be called by the name of vanity. The desire for undue wealth, for show, for worldly honors and the plaudits of men, with attendant power, have all too often led to spiritual downfall.
Another false god might be termed indolence. 'To quote from a talk given by President David O. McKay to a group of seminary ~ teachers: Indolence is seeking something for nothing.
When a man shuns effort, he is in no position to resist temptation. So, through all the ages, idleness has been known as the parent of all the vices. If the mind and body are not kept usefully employed, worthless 703 activities will be engaged in. "Vulgarity weakens the mind," says President McKay: It is vulgar to like poor music, to read weak books, to feed on sensational newspapers, to find amusement in_ trashy novels, to enjoy vulgar theatres, to find pleasure in cheap jokes, to tolerate.
Coarseness and looseness in any of their myriad forms. We must beware of self indulgence.
Intemperance comes under this head and unchastity. "Indulgence which leads to licentiousness will kill spirituality more quickly than anything else in this world" (President McKay). May we all resolve to be strong enough in our individual lives that we may develop a true sense of values and understand the full import of Christ's question, "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" Work ITleeting—The Art of Homemaking (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at