SKETCH OF MRS. HAYES.

	The Presidential election of November
1876, so bitterly contested, ended in a man-
ner remarkable as unexpected for the wo-
men of the United States; for it gave to the
nation a President's wife. This statement
does not imply that worthy women have
not in recent presidential terms, shared the
honors of the Executive Mansion at Wash-
ington, good wives, and estimable mothers,
but Mrs. Hayes during the year of her oc-
cupancy of the White House has added to
these womanly characteristics, a grace and
power which has made the President's
wife an honored reality before the nation.
	To those who have felt the charm of her
presence to those who know by experience
the genuineness of her professions, and the 
purity of her friendship, it is quite unnec-
essary to inquire concerning the early in-
fluences which developed this rich fruitage
of womanly character. To the greater
throng, however, who study her solely from
afar, there can be no such hesitancy, and for
them this brief sketch of her life, may be
both instructive and helpful.
	Lucy Ware Webb was born of honored
ancestry and her life from early childhood
was spent in the state of Ohio.
	Her father, a physician, died while she
was still an infant, but a mother, such as is
vouchsafed to but few daughters, was long
spared to bless the infant child.
	This widowed mother had two other
children, sons, and for their sakes, she
early removed to Delaware, Ohio, where
was located the Ohio Wesleyan University.
In this institution the boys were entered
for a full university course. Mrs. Webb
was independent as to fortune, and relig-
iously devoted her time and attention to
the care of her three children. Lucy was,
at the period of the removal to Delaware,
ten years of age. Her early education was
ordered with care by this wise mother,
she herself selecting her private instructors,
and at length, obtaining for her the privi-
lege of recitation from the professors.
	It was one of these identical college pro-
fessors, who so long ago inaugurated with a
hearty good-will the co-education of Lucy
Webb with her brothers, who on the night
of December 30th, 1877, ratified with sol-
emn religious service, the renewed vows
entered upon by the President and Mrs.
Hayes on the silver anniversary of their
wedding. Twenty-five years before in hap-
py remembrance of this university episode
in the bride's early girlhood, the professor
had been called to perform the ceremony,
and now again in Washington he was re-
called to assist in the thanksgiving of her-
self and husband over an accomplished
quarter of a century of wedded life. When
the daughter was about fifteen years of age
the sons having graduated at Delaware, and
both being about to enter upon the study
of medicine in Cincinnati, the devoted
mother removed thither also, having the
additional reason for her change of resi-
dence in the desire to place Lucy in the
Wesleyan Female College located in that
city. She was promptly entered there, and
without hindrance or interruption, but
blessed and helped beyond computation by
her mother's guardianship, she spent three
consecutive years in the prosecution of her
studies, and graduated with honor in June,
1850.
	It is a fact fraught with significance that
at this time when the question of the high-
er education of women occupies the atten-
tion of the wisest educators and legislators
in the land—the nation may be said to be

[Column 2]
engaged in honoring a woman who is a 
graduate of the first chartered college for
the education of woman in the United
States.
	This title of college was conferred upon
this institution in the charter granted by
the Legislature of Ohio, February 24, 1846.
The curriculum of study was extended,
and the several college classes were care-
fully graded. Mathematics and the class-
ics were rigidly and faithfully taught, and
the graduates of the institution in the ear-
lier years of its history will to day stand
well the test if compared as to their colle-
giate training with the graduates of the
older colleges for young men.
	To Lucy Webb and her associates those
years of college life, were not careless,
songful years, but-toilful, satisfying ones
nevertheless. The secret of the existence
of this college for women so far in advance,
as to years, of the times, is to be found in
the consecration of another life, whose im-
press Mrs. Hayes' character bears in a strik-
ing manner. The life referred to was that
of President Wilber—Rev. P. B. Wilber,
D. D.—who for thirteen years (or from the
inception of the Wesleyan College, until
one June day in 1859, when he fell insensi-
ble at his post), was its energetic and de-
voted president.
	President Wilber, whose memory Mrs.
Hayes in common with the 243 Alumnae
who had graduated before his death, de-
lights to honor, was a remarkable man. As
an educator and inspirer of young women,
those qualified to judge, esteemed him
without a peer. In the professor's chair,
giving didactic instruction he took high
rank, but from the president's desk in the
college chapel he exerted his lasting influ-
ence. There he eliminated from woman's 
life all that was frivolous, all that was un-
worthy, and there morning after morning,
year by year he exalted the holiest and pur-
est ideals until life grew so solemn that
young hearts drew back and feared to live,
if living was so fraught with responsibility
and accountability.
	Measured in this crucial test of daily in-
trospection, Lucy Webb was not found
wanting. From childhood a christian she
drew her help from the Divine fountain of
wisdom, and went forth from college halls
to assume the duties of womanhood, well
disciplined, and, as the sequel has proven,
thoroughly equipped for the work which
has fallen to her lot.
	While she was yet a member of President
Wilber's family, a rising young lawyer,
used "to open the big iron gate of the Wes-
leyan Female College on Vine Street, pretty
regularly every Friday evening" (reception
evening for the college girls) that he might
greet the bashful undergraduate who was
destined to be his wife.
	Two years later, or in 1852, R. B. Hayes
and Lucy W. Webb were married in Cin-
cinnati. Into the privacy of a home such as
theirs the world may not enter. Suffice it,
that it was a household of rare happiness.
The good mother rested from her cares in
the daughter's home, and enjoyed its peace
for a number of years, until from its bosom
she was "called to go up higher."
	Seven children were born, five of whom
still live. Intertwined among these years
came the war of the rebellion, calling Gen-
eral Hayes to the field of battle, where his
wife courageously and devotedly attended
him.
	The limits of an article such as this can-
not embrace details where each incident
seems replete with interest. Mrs. Hayes'
present record is before the whole people.

[Column 3]
They have read attentively, and that they
approve, is shown by the hearty commend-
ation bestowed on every hand.
	Scarcely less than her husband is she at
present a power in our national life, with
this difference, however, that Mrs. Hayes'
constituency recognizes no party lines. The
womanly womanliness which in home life
apportions "letters to the older boys, and
dolls and pettings to the little ones"—in
public life a cordial greeting to all who seek
her presence, reserving her brightest
smiles for those who in circumstances of
trial or temptation struggle towards the 
right, which in social life sets an example
touching the great moral and religious
questions of the day, which the feeblest as
well as the strongest among lookers on may
follow,—this womanliness thus displayed
commands the respect of people of every
section, name and party.
			—Prof. RACHEL L. BODLEY.
	"Woman's Words."


