	CURTIS MATHEMATICAL MODELS: Mrs. Liz-
zie H. Shipp has the patented right of this
model and wishes to establish agents in city
and county for its sale on liberal terms. She
has located at Mrs. Rumell's millinery store on
Main Street, just below the Co-op Drug store.
Mrs. Shipp is prepared to give instruction with
the sale of the model in its adaptability to
practical use. This model is the invention
of a Latter-day Saint sister, and being a home
production should recommend it to use here
in the Territory. It has acquired a reputation
through the practice of years from some of our
sisters who testify to its having been a com-
plete success. There is one a model for dress-mak-
ing and another for tailoring, both eminently
satisfactory to those who have used them.

	A FEW little girls following the example of
the older ones met at the residence of Mrs. B.
W. Smith and formed what is termed the Ju-
venile Association of Little Girls. The presi-
dent is ten years old the secretary nine. They
have had regular meetings for some months in
which they sing, pray and bear their testimony
to the Gospel. They have recently contributed
means, bought calico and pieced a quilt, the
elder sisters quilted it for them, the children
arranging a picnic for the quilters. The little
girls took the quilt to Bishop Edward Hunter
and donated it to the Temple. The good seed
of the Gospel is being sown, and some of it is
bearing rich fruit. It is easy to predict what
will be the future of such children if they con-
tinue to walk in the narrow way. They will
ripen into noble women, women of God.


THE GENERAL Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day, May 11th, was one of special interest.
Counselor Zina D. Young presided and spoke
upon baptism for the dead, prayer and the ne-
cessity of building Temples. Mrs. Young re-
quested the presidents of Relief Societies who
were present to make a few remarks. Big Cot-
tonwood, South Cottonwood and Brighton, al-
so First, Second, Fourth, Ninth and Ffteenth
Wards of the city were represented by their
presidents. The Y. L. M. I. A. of the Ninth,
Fourteenth and Seventeenth Wards were rep-
resented by their respective Superintendents.
Many interesting things were said by these la
dies calculated to stimulate and encourage the
sisters in spiritual improvement, and in prac-
cal work. These meetings are a source of 
spiritual growth to our community; and those
who attend them regularly feel an influence
which helps them to live better lives, and to be
more zealous of good works.


