			FERENCE.

	We had the pleasure of attending the Con-
ference held by the sisters of Weber County,
in Ogden at the Tabernacle, on Thursday, May
2nd, commencing at 10 o'clock, a. m., and 2
o'clock; p. m. The congregation was very
large, the weather was fine, and all things
combined to render the meetings very satisfac-
tory. President Peery and others of the local
authorities of that Stake of Zion were present,
also Elder Erastus Snow of the Quorum of the
Apostles. The complete organization of the

[Column 2]
Relief Society of that county was effected by
electing Mrs. Sarah Herricks an[-] Mrs. Hattie
Brown Counselors to Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, Secretary, and Mrs.
Josephine West Corresponding Secretary.
Quarterly reports from all the branches of the
Relief Society in Weber County were read,
which showed that since the last Quarterly
Conference, there had been disbursed to the
poor $170.13, donated to the Temple, $119.99,
total amount in sundries $290 12, total amount
on hand in property, $1,247.26. The meeting
was conducted by President Jane S. Richards.
After the reports were read and the conference
business transacted, Elder Erastus Snow ad-
dressed the sisters upon the important duties
and responsibilities resting upon the women of
Israel. Exhorted them to be mindful of the
poor, the sick and the aged, to minister to
them in a loving and tender manner; to search
out the poor in their respective districts and be
careful that none were left to suffer. His in-
structions were excellent and he blessed the
sisters for their praiseworthy efforts in assist-
ing to build up Zion. In the afternoon Mrs.
Zina D. Young was the first speaker. Mrs.
Young spoke of seri-culture, of what had been
done, and future prospects; entreated the sis-
ters to use their utmost influence to make a
permanent start of the silk raising. She spoke
impressively upon the subject of women
physicians, the great need of having women
in the various settlements thoroughly quali-
fied to attend to the sick, especially women and
children. Said we have now in Salt Lake City,
ladies who have graduated and are prepared to
teach others, they are women of God, and it is
such women who should minister among the
sick. She said many other excellent things.
Miss Snow spoke eloquently upon the mission
of women in the Latter days and of the power
given to the saints and the advantages they
engoyed beyond the women of the world;
spoke of the neglect there had been in times
past in the spiritual cultivation of the young;
of the first organizations of the girls, and the
opposition they had to meet, of the great ben-
efits which had resulted already from these as-
sociations, of the influence for good the young
girls could exercise in the community. Ex-
horted the sisters to renewed diligence and
faithfulness, spoke upon Celestial Marriage,
the glorious anticipations of those who em-
braced and lived in it in purity and honored it;
of home industries; sericulture, straw-work and
other branches, of the storing of wheat by the
sisters, and the many subjects of the present
day which make up the sum of woman's work
of benevolence, improvement etc., in the
kingdom of God. President Peery expressed
his approbation with the movements of the sis-
ters and encouraged them to go on in well do-
ing. President Jane S. Richards made a few
appropriate remarks. Each society was then
called by Pres't P[-]ery's suggestion to be repre-
sented through its president or some other
officer. Mrs. Adeline Belknap, Hooper; Mrs.
Melissa Shirtliff, Harrisville; Mrs. Mary Farr,
Monnd's Fort; Mrs. C. M. Lund, Huntsville;
Mrs. Martha Bingham, Riverdale; Mrs. Mary
Fields; Slaterville; Mrs. Ann Bickington,
Lynne and Marriot; Mrs. Emily Shirtliff, Plain
City; each spoke a few words, bearing faithful
testimony to the Gospel. Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards, President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Ogden
City, made a few most excellent remarks ex-
pressing her great desire to be useful, and her
interest in the spiritual progress of the young;
she also spoke of the home industries and her
willingness to assist in their establishment.
	The conference was adjourned for three
months, until the first Thursday in August.
These Conferences of the Sisters are calculat-


ed to do a vast amount of good and awake a
more general interest in home-industries, as
well as in all benevolent works among the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints.


