EDUCATE THE HEART.

	It is just possible there is a neglect in the
present age of hurry and bustle, of the culti-
vation of the affections. People are too anx-
ious to "get on in the world" to take time to
cultivate sentiment, and so one of the most
prolific sources of happiness is left barren. To
be sure novelists do this sort of thing and in
many cases the work is left entirely to them;
but generally their heroes and heroines are
only possessed of one selfish, passionate, all-
controlling love that absorbs every other gen-
erous attachment, and consequently the effect
is not to inculcate generosity of soul and lib-
erality of heart. This love cannot be defined
as sentiment in any wide sense.
	Everything now bands towards the cultiva-
tion of the mind, and if the balance is pretty
equally divided between the mind and the
body, one is apt to think that such a person is
likely to make life a success. But to every
human soul however prosperous life may be in
the aggregate, there is an abstract element of
sentiment that at times makes itself per-
ceptibly felt, if one's heart is not wholly hard-
ened in the pursuit of knowledge or of gain;
and this like an inward monitor leads one to
exclaim "All is vanity!"
	Sentiment in the broadest acceptation of the
term is something so elevating and inspiring
that it adds more to the true enjoyment of
life than all the learning we gather from
books. What is it gives such sweet content to
the humble cottager?  It is a true affection for

[Column 2]

family and friends; it is the genuine sentiment
of the heart springing from the fresh and pure
fountains within. In almost all natures this
element is spontaneous, until it is choked by
pride, or avarice, or torn up by harshness or
some other powerful controlling influence, de-
veloped by circumstances or education.
	What is life to the little child who grows up
without love? A barren dreary waste. To
some persons of strong mental or physical
powers that rule them wholly, life without
love may be made fruitful by working out an
enterprise or accomplishing some settled
purpose; but in nine cases out of ten, the
child who is not cherished with love is like
a solitary tree in the desert, which dies a
literal death for the want of nature's vegetating
nourishment, leaving a withered trunk devoid
of beauty, and roots dried up and sapless. It
has the sunshine, it has the soil, but it has not
the soft gentle rain, nor the moisture of the 
[-]ills beneath that silently invigorate the roots.
So is the child without love. Its tenderer na-
ture dies, it has not been nourished with that
affection that calls into play the finer qualities
of the heart, and it grows up without the soft-
ening, tender influences which make the spirit
pliable and the heart yielding. No life is so
full and complete as that into which enters all
the finer elements of pure and genuine affec-
tion. In persons possessing the highest culti-
vation of the heart we find the most exalted
appreciation of all the beauties of nature's realms;
the song of birds, the ripple of water, the sigh-
ing of trees, the lowing of far off kine, the bleat-
ing of lambs, and all the delightful sounds that
make up the harmony of nature's rhythm, the
soft and indefinable influences which thrill the
soul with music, and make pleasant the rough-
est way, and brighten the darkest path, strik-
ing a sympathetic chord in the soul which
echoes through all its holiest emotions.
	Jesus, in His teachings appeals constantly to
the heart, and seldom, if ever, refers to the in-
tellect. St. Paul declared "knowledge puffeth
up, but charity edifieth," and charity is one of
the finest qualities of the human heart. And
the logic that carries conviction to the heart is
true logic, and the sure testimony is that
which finds an echo in the soul. Faith is
another element which exists in the human
heart, and if cultivated, is most productive of
love, "perfect faith is born of perfect love."
	Mothers draw closely to you the hearts of
your children; never let any coldness spring up,
keep the fountain of love and affection ever
pure; you can do much towards making them
kind, tender and forbearing with love; do not
imagine that personal habits have nothing
to do with molding the feelings and principles
of your children. Let the associations in child-
hood be such as shall draw out the better and
kindlier nature, rather than the rough disciplin-
ing of harshness and severity by which many
a boy and girl have been driven to seek among
strangers the kindness they failed to find at
home.
	In the hour of trial that eventually comes to
all, in the time of sorrow, "when all things
earthly, seem empty," where does the heart
seek for consolation? In the Lord, yes; but how
dear are the tender ministrations of affection
for which instinctively as it were, the heart
yearns; then those who excel in superiority of
heart, whose kindly souls are fullest of
real sympathy are the best comforters. Heart
speaks to heart in the rich eloquence of tender-
ness and "we weep with those who weep," "we
mourn with those who mourn."


SCHOOLBOY'S THEORY:—Teacher: "How
is the earth divided my lad?" Ans. "By
earthquakes sir."


