	MAYFIELD, SANPETE CO., Apr. 28, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT :
	As we have not yet given any account of
our Society, we are anxious to do so. Be-
fore the reorganization of the Church we
were two societies; but we were called to-
gether at a special meeting appointed by
Bishop O. C. Olsen and Counselor Henry
Jenson, and Thomas A. Williams, and
were reorganized into one society on the
2nd of August, 1877. We have fifty-four
members and officers as follows: 
	Sina Neilson, President;
		Maria Olsen, 
		Elsey C. Christensen,	} Counselors.
		Etta Williams,
		Matilda Olsen,		} Secretaries.
		Sina Larson, Treasurer.
	We are most picturesquely situated in
this vicinity, but rather in a scattered con-
dition, a creek and a piece of farming land
being between the settlement. We have
our meetings twice a month and enjoy our-
selves together very much. The largest
portion of our town lies on the south side
of the creek, the meeting house being on
that side, and we have lively good meet-
ings, our brethren meeting with us occa-
sionally and giving us encouragement to go

[Column 2]
on in the work in which we are engaged.
We have a lot on the Public Square which
we intend to fence and plant with mul-
berry trees as soon as we can, we also have
a lot of two and a half acres on the north
side of the creek. We have one hundred,
and twenty-three bushels of wheat stored,
and some other means in our Treasury.
There are several numbers of the EXPO-
NENT taken in this place and we are very
much interested when we peruse its pages.
	May God bless and prosper all the sisters
that are engaged in the Latter-day work is
the prayer of yours truly, 	
			ETTA WILLIAMS, Seretary.

	CLARKSTON, CACHE CO. April 9th, ’78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We were reorganized in a Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Association, March
5th, 1877, by our Bishop John Jardine; of-
ficers as follows.
	Marinda Homer, President,
	Sarah Walker,
	Emily J. Homer,
	Sarah Clark,
	Isabel Morton,
	Huldah Malmberg,
	Margaret Archibald,	} Counselors
	Mary A. Homer, Secretary,
	Agnes Jardine, Treasurer.
	Since our organization we have donated
five dollars to the Salt Lake Temple; nine 
dollars to our new meeting house; and are
now trying to do something for the Tem-
ple at Logan. Our meetings are well at-
tended, in them we feel well and enjoy the
spirit of the Gospel. We desire to improve
ourselves by refraining from that which we
know to be evil, by trying to elevate and
cultivate our minds, and by being united
and doing all the good we can.	
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
we remain your sisters in the Gospel,
			MARINDA HOMER, Pres't.
			MARY A. HOMER, Sec'y. 
	MINERSVILLE, BEAVER CO., Apr 15, 78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you the Annual Report of our So-
ciety, read at our Annual meeting, which
shows our society to be in a prosperous con-
dition; we have laid up seventy-five bush-
els of grain, which we intend adding to as
fast as possible; we are anxious to do all the
good we can, and wish to try and carry out
in a proper manner, the counsel that is giv-
en us. We have commenced making straw
hats and hope to make this business a suc-
cess. A short time ago the sisters arrang-
ed a dance and picnic, and the brethren
turned out and fenced our city lot which we
intend setting out in mulberry trees as
soon as we can obtain them, for we wish to
be one wtth our sisters in trying to raise
silk. Our society numbers fifty members
and we hold our meetings every two weeks
when we receive good counsel and instruc-
tion from our president and many others of
the sisters. We are desirous of doing all
the good we can in this great work in which
we are engaged.
	Annual Report ending March 7, 1878.
	Donations to Temple		$ 24 75
	Donations received			50 37
	Property in Society			78 22
	Disbursements			118 32
	Balance in Treasury		35 02
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel,
		Polly Ann Zebriskia, President;
		Sarah Myres,
		Nancy Blackburn,	} Counselors.
		Susan Roberts, Secretary,
		Jane Corbridge, Treasurer.


