WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		189


[Column 1]
					For the Exponent.
PECUNIARY DEPENDENCE OF WO-
				MEN.

	It is much against Madame Grundy's rule
for a woman to earn money. If a married wo-
man manages in any direct way to earn her
own pocket money, society immediately
frowns her down—what right has a married
woman to earn money? Why don't her hus-
band support her? These and numberless oth-
er questions are asked if any woman dare be
brave enough, or has sufficient independence
to go out of the common groove. Men usual-
ly are very much ashamed of a wife who in-
sists on earning money herself, and it irritates
them beyond expression to feel that a woman
should want any pocket money she will not
ask them for, and give them an account of.
Don't they provide everything that's neces-
sary, and do they ever refuse to hand over to
the wife for extras? But supposing they want
to spend a little means aside from family ex-
penditures, do they ever feel called upon to ac-
count for it? No, why should they, don't they
earn all the money, every cent. I once heard
a mau make the remark when I was a wee bit
of a girl, "my wife never earned a cent in her
life, I've kept my family in style by my own
hard earnings and business tact, ever since we
were married, and we've had ten children to
educate." This was said as a sort of boast that
he was a good husband and father, but, al-
though I was a very little girl then I knew wo-
men had rights as well as men, though that
woman didn't seem to realize it, and I began
from that time to soliloquize on this subject.
I wonder who endured all the sorrows, trials,
aches and pains incident to bearing those ten
children, and in nursing and rearing them;
who but the mother knows the toil, the pa-
tience, the forbearance it requires, leaving out
the hard work, the making and mending and 
cooking. No doubt the very woman to whom
reference had been made, had done all her
household work, save when help was actually
a necessity. When will men feel that their
wives are equal partners in pecuniary matters?
Many women could manage household expen-
ses much more economically were they al-
lowed to make their own purchases; their na-
tures are adapted to these matters and they
know what is most suitable and really make
better bargains than men, besides taking more
pains to get the right thing, instead of just
anything.
	Women have been led into resorting to all
sorts of snbterfuges, and "telling lots of little

[Column 2]
fi[-]s" to get what they want, or money to make
small purchases; to be sure they should not be
tempted to wrong doing even through unjust
or unkind treatment, but such is the bent of 
human nature. Wives feel they have a right
to a certain portion of the means which the
husband earns, if not by right of wifehood, for
cooking his meals, washing his clothes and be-
ing a domestic servant generally, or "maid of
all work," and "by hook or crook" there are
some who will have it however niggardly the
husband may be with them, or however tight
a string he may draw on his purse. Women
have different methods of getting what they
want, some by coaxing and wheedling, some
by tears and entreaties, and others afraid of an
open rupture, or of being denied will accom-
plish their purpose in a way which actually
degrades them in their own eyes, because they
feel it to be morally wrong, but excuse them
selves by thinking there was no other alterna-
tive. No one need think that married women
have time at their disposal, or inclination to go
and earn money if there were no need of it,
and therefore Madame Grundy should be si-
lent on this score at least. The best of hus-
bands is apt to "put on airs" when the wife
wants extra money, but would be astounded
were she to question him as to how, or where
he spends money that he gives no account of
whatever. Many a man worth his thousands
unconsciously perhaps (for charity's sake we
will grant it so), makes his wife undergo a hu-
miliation as grinding as that of the old Quak-
er's wife in the anecdote, when she trembling-
ly asked him for a little change and was re-
torted upon with the question "What hast
thee done with that dime I gave thee last
week?" And many a woman who lives in an
elegant house (her husband's) and rides in a 
handsome carriage (her husband's) cannot
command sufficient money to purchase any
little trifle without making an explanation of
all the why's and wherefore's, and running the
risk of being snubbed into the bargain, or per-
haps flatly refused. All these things are very
mortifying to a sensitive nature, and if the evil
could be remedied, it would save much unhap-
piness, as well as deceit between husband and 
wife, where perfect concord should exist if not
so much for their own comfort, for the sake of
the children who comprehend much more
readily than parents are apt to imagine the lit-
tle causes of unpleasantness and annoyances
between father and mother.

	There are very few married women compar-
atively speaking, who have any time to earn
money however willing they may be, and
however great may be their tact or ingenuity.
Household cares require strict supervision and
young women raising families need all their
physical and mental vigor for maternity and
motherhood, and the husband if thoughtful
and considerate will render material help to 
his posterity by careful attentions and timely
consideration for the wife and mother. Every
woman under these peculiar circumstances
feels much more acutely any neglect, or in-
difference, any unkindness or denial, and the
husband cannot be too careful of the mother
of his offspring. Yet such unfortunately is
not the case; women must learn to look to the
Lord, to lean on the Lord, so we teach and so
we believe, but this does not leave the hns-
band without excuse. If men who are not
willing women should enter a profession, or go
into business, would set the example of liber-
ality towards women in sharing the means
they earn it might have a good effect. Wo-
men who cut, make, mend and do all the work
of a household are scarcely entitled in com-

[Column 3]
mon parlance to more than their board and
clothes, and dare not presume to any extra
privileges, and if their husband takes them
now and then to a theatre, or concert makes
them feel they have had a favor conferred up-
on them, for which they should be most grate-
ful. Many women lie awake at night in fear
and trembling when they are compelled to
ask the husband for money, for even ordinary
comforts; Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer said
at the Woman's Congress in Cleveland last
year, that once in Washington she was listen-
ing to a lecture upon this subject and the 
speaker made the daring assertion that of all
the women there, "not one of them had
twenty-five cents to spend as she pleased with-
out asking somebody for it; "Upon this," said
Mrs. S. "all the old maids and widows clapped
their hands upon their pockets, but the mar-
ried women who were "supported," hung
their heads in silence. They knew it was too
true."
							THYRA.
	S. L. City, May 11, 1878.


