R. S. REPORTS.

	The Fourth Annual Meeting of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of the First Ward was held
Apr. 2, 1878. After the usual exercises
and reading of the minutes, the President
Mrs. Sarah Graham alluded to their organi-
zation four years previous and the good re-
sults of their labors in spiritual improve-
ment, and closed by saying several of the
sisters of great wisdom and experience had
been invited to speak to them. Miss E.
R. Snow made some interesting remarks
and urged upon the young the necessity of
earnestness and prompt action in attending
to duties and responsibilities in the church
and kingdom of God. She spoke of the de-
sire of the saints to become Saviors upon
Mount Zion, and that it required the people
of God to help redeem the human family,
otherwise there was no attaining such a
high position, such blessings were not for
those who followed after the fashions of the
world; if any of us thought so we would
meet with disappointments, and she feared
that many would. Miss Snow remarked
that in many instances the young ladies
who had stepped forward in the organiza-
tions for improvement had exerted a pow-
erful influence for good over the young
men in their respective districts. She gave
much good advice to the President of the
Association in regard to the influence that
could be used with the young. She felt
the subject was inexhaustible and that we
required the aid of the Spirit of God con-
tinually in disciplining and molding the
daughters of Zion for future usefulness in
the church and kingdom of God. Mrs. M.
I. Horne thought many of the sisters did
not realize and fully appreciate the bless-
ings and privileges which were bestowed
upon them, said that those who lived near-
est to the Lord were the happiest under all
circumstances. Exhorted the young ladies
to honor the principle of Celestial Marriage.
Mrs. Horne dwelt quite earnestly upon the
principle of order and the necessity of in-
culcating it in the habits of our children at
an early age; thought that example was be-
fore precept with the young and regretted
that many mothers paid so little heed to
their own lives; made some excellent re-
marks upon economy and the management
of home; said that children should be
taught respect and obedience in early life;
said many other good things. Counselors
Agnes Campbell, Jane Van Tassell, Ellen
Hill, Miss Amy Adams, Mrs. M. G. Chase,
President of the Relief Society, and Mrs.
Margaret Steel her Counselor, all made re-
marks calculated to benefit and stimulate
the young ladies in their efforts to improve.
	Some business in the interest of the As-
sociation was transacted previous to ad-
journment. The good spirit seemed to rest
upon all present.
	AMY H. ADAMS, Secretary.

