				THOREAU.*

	Thoreau's life was in many respects a
strange one. If his life were a strange
one, was it an exception to what life
in general is? It was and it was not. In
this strange and mysterious consciousness
called life, the potent and all pervading fact
of it is that it is. Thoreau's life was an ex-
ception to the common experience in so
much that he steered its course out of the
ordinary; and he betook himself to the
woods and their lakes "not that he loved
man less, but that he loved nature more."
He absented himself from man and his oc-
cupations that he might know him better,
and not because he loved not man and his
ways.
	In the universe man stands alone; he
may find in others a sympathy of ideas and
feelings, and yet he must gaze upon his fel-
low man as a part of an incomprehensible uni
verse; the universe of himself and his mind;
the thought suggests itself to him, am I a
part of the universe, or is the universe a
part of me? A question unknown and un-
knowable. This is what Thoreau must have
thought and felt when he retired to Wal-
den.
	He went here; as he himself says, to live
one of his lives, and that he might the
better meet and master the new lives to
come. He did not despise the revolutioniz-
ing improvements and advancements of
nineteenth century progress. The whistle
of the locomotive was to him not the death-
cry of beauty and of nature in its primi-
tiveness before man began his despoilation
of all for gain, but was rather the merry
laugh of a conscious being bringing comfort
to those who needed, loving friends and
faithful hands to those who mourned. In
this he is the opposite of Ruskin with his
Scotch lakes and Highland dells. Ruskin
sees in the advance of civilization an uni-
versal onslaught upon the beauty and har-

[Column 2]
mony of nature; not so Thoreau. Thor-
eau sees man expanding his nature, and de-
veloping an unknown and illimitable power
that is within him.
	Although he lived alone he was no her-
mit. Is he a hermit who communes with
the stars; sings with the birds; talks with
the beasts of the field, the fowls of the air,
and the fishes of the sea? No; to him all
nature and nature's is a companion, a loving
voice, a sympathizing soul. "Consider the
lilies of the field, they toil not, neither do
they spin, and yet I say unto you that even
Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed
like one of these." None ever more fully
realized the truth and beauty of this pas-
sage than Thoreau. He had at Walden
what he would have found in human soci-
ety,—companions as God made them and
not as society fashioned them. Here at
Walden his life was simple and philosophic
in the extreme; his bean field supplied
the place of the cabbage patch of
Cincinnatus. Indeed we deem this
portion of his life most poetical and 
was not that of a melancholic and misan-
thrope. Well has he earned the appellation
of "poet-naturalist." He was a poet after
the model of Sidney and Mill. All that
we can say of his life during these years of
solitude is that it was such as might have
been the envy of the angels.
	His ideas of government were preemi-
nently republican; and yet he greatly de-
precated the evils of republican institutions.
His ideal of a society would have been to
have had a primitive equality, a society
like that of the Village of Grand Pre,
where "the richest were poor, and the poor-
est lived in abundance." Certainly this is
an ideal that is most desirable, but too Uto-
pian for actual realization. Man wants no
equality unless it betters his condition.
They will cry equality who have nothing to
lose, everything to gain. Observation
teaches us that there is only one society
and one country where is absolute equality
—that society is the dead, that country the
grave.
	Mr. Pago has done a service to the mem-
ory of Thoreau, though his book is not all
we could have wished. We think he has
refuted, and fully, the assertion of Mr. Al-
ger, that Thorean was an egotist and self-
praiser. Thoreau only found within him-
self a centre from which all his ideas radi-
ated, and which returned again to that cen-
tre. Man's knowledge of mankind will al-
ways be and only be commensurate with
the knowledge of his personal self.
	Thoreau sleeps in his own beloved Con-
cord, where he was laid by distinguished
and loving friends. May we some day vis-
it this birth-place and home of so much
American genius.
	We hope some day that we shall be fav-
ored with a life and the letters of Thoreau.
							A. L. F.
	*	Thoreau: His Life and Aims, a study,
by H. A. Page.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON-
