	AMERICAN FORK MEETING HOUSE,
						April 2nd, 1878.

	Meeting opened in usual order; minutes
read, etc. A report of a meeting of the
Executive Board was read which presented
several questions for consideration; first, the
necessity of petitioning the County Court
for an appropriation for the furtherance of
the silk business. Elder Graves spoke on
the subject and motioned that we apply for
fifty dollars, seconded by Mrs. Hindley;
Bishop L. E. Harrington also made some
appropriate remarks on the subject, approv-
ing of the motion. Elder H. Cluff followed
with some interesting remarks encouraging
to silk-raisers, felt assured that the County
Court would do all in their power for the
furtherance of the enterprise, but was also
in favor that if the Court refused to aid us,
that we raise fifty or one hundred dollars
by subscription offering to donate ten dol-
lars himself. Made an amendment that we
apply for one hundred instead of fifty dol-
lars, which was seconded by Bishop Har-
rington, and carried unanimously. The
next question before the meeting was
whether the sisters of the Relief and
Young Ladies Societies are members of the
Silk Association, by virtue of their mem-
bership in these Associations, or must they
be enrolled. Elder Graves considered they
are already members through the call of
President Brigham Young. Motioned by
Bishop Harrington that the Ladies of the
Relief and Y. L. I. Associations are all
members of the Silk Association; carried.
Some other items of business were trans-
acted; after which Mrs. Zina D. Young ad-
dressed the meeting; spoke very interest-
ingly on the raising and manufacturing of
the silk. Referred to the mission given to
the sisters by President Brigham Young.
Spoke of the duties of mothers to their
children, and the necessity of furnishing
employment and clothing to them and also
to ourselves. Told the sisters not to get
discouraged by failures, but to "try again;"
related some of her experience in the silk
business and encouraged the sisters to keep
on persevering until they make it a suc-
cess. Spoke of Celestial Marriage as a di-
vine principle, and calculated to purify and
elevate the saints of God, said many things
that were cheering and profitable and full of
the spirit of the Gospel. Urged the sisters
to plant cuttings and put in seed of the
mulberry, and persevere in the work ob-
taining a little knowledge here and a little


there. We have no time to spare in none
sense or frivolity, but let us be of one heart
and one mind, and seek to do all the good
we can while we live upon the earth, that
when our time comes to go, we shall have
nothing to fear, but all will be peace. Let
us seek each other's interest and welfare by
wearing the clothes made by our own
hands, thus showing our faith by our works.
We know that we are in advance of the
women of the world, and they know that
we are superior to them in many respects.
	Let us speak well of each other, and pray
for each other, and bear each other's bur-
dens. We take with us throughout eter-
nity the improvement we make in our
minds. There is nothing that gives us the
same satisfaction as heavenly things; we
have no sorrow only for sin, and there is in
the gospel a healing balm for every wound.
	The reports of the sisters from the var-
ious settlements were interesting and satis-
factory, all manifesting their willingness
and anxiety to do all in their power for the
furtherance of silk culture, also bore faith-
ful testimonies to the principles of life and 
salvation. Altogether the meeting was
both pleasing and profitable. The spirit of
the Lord prevailed and all felt benefitted
and blest in coming together.
	Mrs. Young announced that Miss M. A.
Rockwood would take pupils to learn reel-
ing and twisting of silk, for $5,00 each.
	On motion of Mrs. Hindley the meeting
adjourned until July next.
		MRS. MARY HINDLEY, Pres't.
