WOMEN'S SPHERE.

	As I said Betsey Bobbet is awful opposed
to wimmin's having any right only the 
right to get married. She holds on to that
right as tight as any single woman I ever
see, which makes it hard and wearyin' on
the single men round here. For take the 
men that are the most opposed to wimmin's
havin' a right, and talk the most about its
bein' her duty to cling to man like a vine
to a tree, they don't want Betsey to cling
to them, they won't let her cling to them.
For when they would be goin' on about
how wicked it was for wimmen to vote—
and it was her only spear to marry, says I
to 'em, which had you rather do, let Betsey
Bobbet cling to you or let her vote? and
they would every one of 'em quail before
that question. They would drop their heads
before my keen grey eyes, and move off
the subject.
	But Betsey don't get discourajed. Every
Time I see her, she says in a hopeful wish-
ful tone, "That the deepest men of minds
in the country agree with her in thinking
that it is wimmin's duty to marry and not to
vote. And then she talks a sight about the
retiring modesty and dignity of the fair
sect, and how shameful and revoltin' it
would be to see wimmin throwin' them
away, and boldly and unblushin'ly talkin'
about law and justice. Why to hear Betsey
Bobbet talk about wimmin's throwin' their
modesty away, you would think if ever
they went to the political pole, they would
have to take their dignity and modesty and
throw them against the pole, and go with-
out any, all the rest of their lives.
	Now I don't believe in such stuff as that,
I think a woman can be bold and unwoman-
ly in other things besides going with a 
thick veil over her face, and a brass mount-
ed parasol, once a year, and gently and
quietly dropping a vote for a Christian
president, or a religious or noble minded
pathmaster.—My Opinion's and Betsey
Bobbet's.—English Woman's Review.


It is repo[-]ted that ex-Queen Isabella is
about to make London her residence.

	WHAT letters of the alphabet are most
valuable to a man in business? N. R. G.
(energy).

	AN intelligent German thus expressed
his preference for a quack doctor—"I
vouldn't call him iv mine cat vas dead."


