	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
		April 8th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In my last I told you I would try and
glean some information concerning the cus-
toms and manners of this people, that would
be interesting to the readers of our paper.
When I see the habits of this people the
old saying is brought forcibly to my mind,
"one half of the world has but little idea
how the other half live." The males here,
as a general thing, take what we call the
heavier part of the house work, cooking
and preparing the food, and frequently do
their own washing and ironing. For a wo-
man to have a meal prepared for her hus-
band when he returns from work would, to
say the least, be out of the common course
of doing business here, not that the women
are lazy, but it is not customary. Many of
the women work in the field, and at many
kinds of out door work, to almost as good
advantage as the men. They make their
own clothes, and sometimes their husbands.
They are all good braiders, make their own
hats, which are very nice and becoming to
the people, and adapted to the climate; they
also braid a great many mats out of the 
Pandamus leaf, which constitutes the prin-
cipal part of the furniture of a genuine
Hawaiian house; they compose the floor, and
by adding a few extra ones at one end of
the room, they answer for bed and bed-
stead, and a smaller one to spread down in
the centre at meal time, is all that is neces-
sary for a table; some few have tables but
they are more for an ornament than for use.
They never think of spreading their food
upon them and sitting around them as we
do. It is becoming fashionable with the
more wealthy to have a few chairs in the
room, but a native seldom uses one, custom
having made the mat or floor an easier seat
for him.
	Their style of washing clothes is quite

[Column 2]

different and much easier, I think, than
ours. Taking them to the brook or spring,
they soak them and place them on a flat
rock, sit down and pound them with a
stick, or stone, until the dirt is out; pouring
clean water over them as they require it;
but clothes washed in this primitive way
do not last as long as they do with our more
mild treatment. This people are not epi-
cures, they do not require to be taught re-
trenchment, especially in their diet. as
their appetites scarcely ever crave more
than three or four kinds of food at the same
meal. Poi is the staff of life with them,
as bread is with us; the next most pal-
atable viand is raw fish, and also cooked
pork; after which comes what they call ex-
tras, li-mu (sea moss) na we, (a species of
shell fish) bannannas, etc., on this fare any no-
ble of the land could feast. Their habit how-
ever in irregular eating frequently leads
many of them to overload their stomachs,
and is the cause, I believe, of much sick-
ness among them.
	The District Conference for this Island,
was held at Honolulu on the 30th, and 31st
ult., at which a great many of the Saints
were present from different parts of the
island, as well as quite a number of unbe-
lievers. Her Majesty Queen Kapiolani at-
tended the services Sunday morning, and
gave attention to the teachings of Elders
J. S. Woodbury, H. P. Richards, J. Gates,
jr., and M. K. Hawaii, who bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Our regular Conference here closed on
the 7th inst , different branches on all the
islands being much better represented than
usual on such occasions. A good spirit was
manifested by all, and much valuable in-
struction was given to the elders both for-
eign and native.
	We are having a severe drouth which is
very detrimental to this little place. The
verdure on our once evergreen hills and
slopes, presents an appearance of having
been frost-bitten. Such an extreme drouth
has not been known for many years, which
is causing much suffering both to man and
beast.
	Your sister and fellow laborer in the
cause of Truth.
