BY HANNAH T. KING.
[concluded.]

	I now present another tableau in the life
of the sisters of Bethany, "Six days before
the passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where
he had raised Lazarus from the dead; there
they made him a supper, and Martha serv-
ed; but Lazarus was one that sat at table
with him. Then Mary took a box of oint-
ment of spikenard, very costly, and
anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped them
with her hair, and the house was filled with
the sweet odor of the ointment. Judas
who was present, objected saying, why was
not this ointment sold for three hundred
pence and given to the poor; not that he
cared for the poor, but he "carried the bag"
and was a dishonest man, and wanted to
handle the money. Then said Jesus "Let
her alone, against the day of my burial
hath she done this;" again did he sustain
her. From this time we hear no more of
Martha. Time passes, the Savior's life on
earth is drawing to a close; his life has
been one of obedience, and now approaches
his suffering death. At his crucifixion we
read that there stood by his cross Mary, his
mother, and Mary, the wife of Cleophas,
and Mary Magdalene; true unto the death
were these most remarkable and highly
favored women; they wait and watch all
through those tremendous sufferings, they
hear his last groan, his last words "It is fin-
ished;" still they wait till the body is taken

[Column 2]

down from the accursed tree. They see it
received by kind and appreciative friends,
laid in a new tomb, embalmed by sweet
spices, myrrh and aloes, according to the
order of the Jews, and robed in linen
pure and white, and all of his troubled life
is over. We pass on—"The first day of the
week cometh Mary Magdalene while it was
yet dark, unto the Sepulchre, and seeth the
stone taken away; she then goes to Peter
and other disciples whom Jesus loved and
tells them, they have taken away the Lord
out of the Sepulchre, and we know not
where they have laid him. The disciples
return with her, and make their own obser-
vations, they then go away to their own
houses; but Mary remained mourning at
the sepulchre, and stooping down she look-
eth in, and saw two angels in white, sitting
one at the head and the other at the feet
where the body of Jesus had lain; and they
say unto her, "Why weepest thou?" She
answered, because they have taken away
my Lord, and I know not where they have
laid him; and turning round she beheld a
personage standing by her, whom she
thought must be the gardener, and said to
him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell
me where thou hast laid him, and I will
take him away. Jesus saith unto her
Mary! she turned herself and saith unto
him Rabboni! How often have I pondered
on this most wonderful scene; I have pic-
tured it in my mind and tried to realize it.
How was it that she did not know him till
he pronounced her name? What was the
tone in which he uttered it? Why did she
instantly recognize him? Why were her
eyes instantly opened? Was it some tone
of peculiar graciousness, in which he had
at times addressed her? There must have
been some power, some intuition that flung
the veil from her vision as he pronounced
that ever pure and beautiful name, and she
answers it by another name, grand and
glorious Rabboni! I seem easily to realize
her tone, even her attitude, and the very
expression of her countenance yes even the
very sensations of her soul at that blissful
moment of her life! Did it not repay her
for all her sufferings? Methinks it was in-
deed the pearl dissolved in the acid cup of
life! I picture her throwing herself upon
her knees and stooping to kiss his feet, but
he exclaims, "Touch me not, for I have not
yet ascended to my Father! but go to my
brethren and say unto them, I ascend to
my Father and to your Father, to my God,
and your God! What gracious comforting
words are these, how they call forth the
love and worship of every Saint; how pas-
sive we feel under their god-like influence.
Blessed Mary! blessed Martha! blessed all
noble women upon the face of the wide-
spread earth! God loves them, they are
his special care; only let them be true to
themselves. Woman know thyself—study
thy divine mechanism; leave the science
of mathamatics if you must give up one;
but read yourself like an open book. Walk
through the length and breadth of your
heart and brain, and you will find the hand
of God has been busy there; see that you
render back some return to the Divine
Architect. The Scriptures say no more on
the Sisters of Bethany, but it is all written
in that book which has yet to be opened.

[Column 3]

	The next character the inspired penman
describes as a woman full of good works,
and alms deeds; by name, Tabitha or Dor-
cas; she took sick and died, and the friends
prepared her body for interment. They
then sent two men to Peter desiring that
he would not delay coming unto them; and
he arose and went with the messengers,
and they took him into an upper room
where the body was laid, washed and dress-
ed for burial; and all the saints and widows
stood by him weeping, and shewing the
coats and garments that Dorcas had made
while she was with them. But Peter put
them all forth and kneeled down and pray-
ed, and turning him to the body, said Ta-
bitha arise! and she opened her eyes, and
when she saw Peter she sat up, and he gave
her his hand and lifted her up; and when
he had called the saints and widows, he
presented her alive! and many believed on
the Lord.
	I have taken only the most prominent
women of Scripture, and even their charac-
ters are very brief in holy writ; I might
have elaborated them more, but I felt our
paper is small, and I must not exceed my
allotted space; enough has been said to ex-
cite interest in some minds that, perhaps,
have not made the old Scriptures much of
a study, but the models are fine and we
should study them.


