[Vol3 | December 1916 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature for the Home - Course Overview]

LITERATURE FOR THE HOME. The chief aims of the course are these 1. To help mothers select better books for their homes. 2. To give to them some simple fundamental principles to guide them in their choice of stories and other reading for their children. 3. To cultivate a love of literature that will lead to right reading habits in the home. The home library generally is but a motley collection of books, purchased at random, and suitable mostly for grown-ups. What more beneficial study can be taken up than one that will help us spend our book money more wisely? A home without a good library is like a town without a school. This does not mean that the home must have many books, but it should have a choice selection. Mothers should learn how to choose the book companions of their children. With what stories are your boys and girls feeding their minds? What are you doing to guide their reading habits? Book companions are next to human companions in their influence over the minds of children. Mothers should study what stories to place before their children. So also should they learn what poems and other choice literature to bring into their homes for inspiration and culture. The reading habits of the home, likewise, need attention. Home reading generally consists of a hasty glance through the papers, a running over the magazines to see the pictures, and taste of the jokes or stories they contain, or it is a haphazard browsing among books. There is more mental dissipation than education in the ordinary home-reading. We need to restore the fireside story, to bring the family into closer intellectual companionship through the medium of good books. There should be more voicing of good literature in our homes. In the course that has been planned for the coming year, all of these practical problems will be considered. A series of studies, one for each month, will be taken up. The following suggestive outline will give some idea of the content of the course: Lesson I. Literature as Creative Art. The purpose here is to help parents to know what literature really is, to give them some fundamental principles by which to judge a literary selection. Lesson II. The Author at Work. The aim here is to show how the writer creates literature in ? 
 ? form of verse and prose producing these three chief types the sermon, the song, and the story. Lesson III. The Lyric, or Song. In this study, the mothers will learn what are the characteristics of a choice song, what is a lyric line; how to read lyrics to bring out their beauty; what lyrics to read. Lesson IV. The Children's Poets. This lesson will deal with the development of children's poetry from the days of Mother Goose until now. Poets of earlier times and those of recent days will be compared and enjoyed. Lesson V. Stories True and False. The purpose of this study will be to give parents the main principles by which a story may be judged, to show what marks the artistic story, what stories are really true and worth while. Lesson VI. Old Time Tales. A study of folk lore, the tales that have tumbled down the stream of time and have come to us in form of nursery tales, fairy stories, fables, parables, etc. These different types will be explained and illustrated. Lesson VII. Modern Tales for Children. The aim here is to give parents at least a good introduction to the best story-writers of recent days for children. Lists of choice stories will be offered for consideration. Lesson VIII. Our Country in Song and Story. The choice lyrics and tales that reflect the spirit of our country will be taken up here. A study to inspire true patriotism, we feel, could hardly be planned.