[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 328 | Poem | Memories Catherine | B. Bowles]
My mother was all these things and more to me; and yet I know MEMORIES Catherine B. Bowles A radiant light still glows Along the byways as I roam— A narrow winding pathway That leads me back to home. That she, like all of us, was no perfection. She would be the las one to gloss over her faults o magnify her goodness. But eve her weaknesses, and her recognition of them, became a source strength to me. These are three women in t background of my life wh qualities of courage and strengt I can only attempt to approximate, but it is my duty and m responsibility to try to make t attempt. My background is no unique; it is duplicated in t lives of many other Latter-da Saint women. Every woman, she takes her place in each succeeding generation, has a responsibility to those who follow her. The only way any of us can ful fill this great responsibility an acknowledge the great debt owe is to pattern our lives so th our own children and grandchildren may, in turn, receive t benefits and blessings which a their rightful heritage. With bowed heads by the table Sat my parents old and worn, Giving thanks for all their blessings— For the children they had borne. Father's hands were scarred and shaky, Gently placed upon my head— Then all aches and pains would vanish As he stood beside my bed. Now those memories linger, And though I journey late, I feel protective counsel To make my pathway straight. 328 Literary Contest Announcements 1966 The Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest @ The Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1966. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize 0 02222222-2---$40 Second prize I 22.0.-.-$30 Third prize 00000000 00.02.002..$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4, The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. That is has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published