[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 344 | General Feature | Editorial: Young Women in Relief Society | Louise W. Madsen]
EDITORIAL 

 belie S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Young Women in Relief Society Most young women are motivated by a desire to make something beautiful of their lives. Many realize the need for help beyond themselves for fullest achievement. Some know and others need to be assured that Relief Society offers a way for fulfillment of their goals, that for each desire, Relief Society membership and activity have a reward. Young women who have found themselves in Relief Society have responded to its. Programs with eager acceptance. The more than 6500 members of University campus Relief Societies are among the most ardent of sisters. They bear testimony of their joy in continuing spiritual and cultural education. Dedicated and selfless compassionate service is being given on campuses by the young married sisters. Loving kindness is their watchword. To no women are their homes more precious, their husbands more honored, their children more cherished. Relief Society needs the youthful vigor and enthusiasm, the strength and _ willingness, the knowledge and_ dedication of the young women in addition to the graces and strengths of the mature women. Young women need the guiding influence, the steadying hand, the inspirational teaching, the heaven-inspired leadership of Relief Society. DESIRES Desire to accept what the Lord has provided. Desire to give full expression to her innate urge to worship and serve the Lord. Desire for growth as a person. Desire for continuing education. Desire to know her religion. Desire for leadership opportunities. Hood. Desire to achieve refinement. Desire to be a worthy wife. Desire to be a noble mother. Desire to be a competent homemaker. Desire to have her capabilities recognized. Desire to overcome weaknesses. Desire to make friends. Desire for social experiences. Desire to give volunteer service. ) f REWARDS Relief Society is a divine gift to women. The programs of Relief Society give impetus to worship and provide ways to serve. Relief Society encourages and provides intellectual stimulation. Courses of study enlighten spiritually, culturally, mentally, and add to her store of knowledge. _ The doctrines and principles of the gospel are taught through Priesthood approved lessons. Sisters may hold executive, administrative, committee, and class leader responsibilities, thus receiving leader- _ ship training. Desire for poise, for gracious woman- I The security of knowing what is right to do is gained by participation in the _ many-faceted Relief Society program. Relief Society exerts a refining influence by teaching the best, the most uplifting ideals. Relief Society teaches her to understand the sharing of the blessings of ' her husband's Priesthood. Lessons are correlated with the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons so that husband and wife may be united in gospel understanding. No goal is more desirable and Relief Society leads the way. Skills and techniques are taught to increase her abilities. Relief Society makes use of her talents and helps her discover new talents. Strength is gained by association with wise and spiritual sisters and by profiting from the experiences of others. Friendships so lasting are formed in Relief Society that the Prophet's mother stated that we may all sit down in heaven together. Relief Society has delightful socials where sisters are given incentives to have happy association with others. _ Opportunities to let her compassionate nature be enlarged are abundant in Relief Society. —II. W. M. 345 a mw Arlene McHugh was making every minute count as she hurried with her washing. Little Clair and Carl were still asleep, but that wouldn't last for long. She gathered up the colored batch and put it in the conventional washer. Then, taking the white batch in the big basket, she went outside to hang the clothes on the line. As Arlene hung her sparkling white wash, she crooned a little overture. She looked at the blue, blue sky, with puffs of clouds arranged artistically. They reminded her of her billowy wash. Indoor clothes dryers were a housewife's best friend on rainy or winter days. But outdoor clotheslines were made for summer. Hanging clothes was such a wonderful time to think and count one's blessings. One blessing was the fact that her husband Barney had a good paying summer job. Which was a mighty fine thing, as Bamey tried to make enough in summers to tide them over winters, while he went to college.