[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 363 | Home | A Pod Full of Peas | Helen Hinckley Jones]
A Pod Full of Peas Helen Hinckley Jones ® Like other American housewives, I have learned to do things the easy way. I have a ready thumbnail for the breakfast food box or the quick mix, a flexible wrist for opening cans and emptying their contents into a bowl or saucepan. But every time I drop a frozen mass of green peas into the required boiling salted water and hear the "klop," I remember the beautiful music fresh peas make as they ping into a pan. Peas don't play bravura music. Even with as rapid a "sheller'"" as my mother was, there is a delicate one-note-at-a-time sort of music. "Helen, would you like to help me shell the peas for dinner?" Mother would ask, and the two ef us would sit down with the peas on a paper between us, each with a bowl on her lap. An extra special atmosphere of oneness would settle upon us as we commenced to pop open the pods and drop the peas into our pans. I'd eat all of the little underdeveloped ones as they came from the pod, and we would talk. We were shelling peas when Mother told me about the "olden times" when she was a little girl and knew such great men as Brother Maeser, the first President of Brigham Young University. Sdmetimes, she told me of how she met Daddy and fell in love with him and how they were married in the Manti Temple. Sometimes, she talked of the even more ancient time when her mother, my quiet little grandmother, was a lively girl in England, or of how her father crossed the plains with the Gold Rush, but saw Grandma in a Great Salt Lake City kitchen and never completed his journey. We were shelling peas when I asked her, a little awkwardly, perhaps, about how babies come into the world. And she, looking at her fast moving hands instead of into my eager face, because even with her own little girl she was a bit reticent, told me about what it means to be a woman, a wife, a mother. 


 We were shelling peas when I told her about my sixth grade "crush" and my ninth grade "heartbreak," and still later of my adolescent plans and aspirations. Nowadays mothers say that they can't "get through" to their daughters. Girls who have confided in me say that they wish they could talk with their own mothers. Because of this lack of communication, mothers and daughters, too, go through the days and weeks and years never understanding each other, never really discovering how to make their lives touch. Because they cannot tolerate this distance between them, or because things go wrong, mothers and daughters, too, seek family counselors, psychologists, analyists, psychiatrists. Perhaps all of this expensive counseling is helpful, perhaps, sometimes, it is necessary. But maybe what mothers and daughters need is a quiet hour with three pounds of garden-fresh green peas that need four hands to do the shelling. 14 c. Vegetable oil 14 ¢. Light vinegar 14 c. Sugar dash paprika sprinkle of pepper 1 green pepper (medium sized, finely 1 can tomato soup cut) 1 tsp. Salt (or less for individual taste) 1 onion (size of small egg), minced 1 tsp. Mustard (prepared) 1% c. Finely cut celery Blend in your blender or mixmaster, or shake well in a bottle, all ingredients except the green pepper, onion, and celery. When the other ingredients are blended, toss in the cut green pepper, the minced onion, and the cut celery. Keep in a covered jar in the refrigerator. This wonderful dressing is delicious with lettuce and sliced tomatoes, or lettuce alone. Any combination of salad vegetables is delectable with this dressing.