[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 356 | Home | Bulletin | June F. Krambule]
Bulletin June F. Krambule A practical gift for adult or child; ideal organizer for a busy mother; instant-reminder to a forgetful teenager; attractive wall decoration, costing about a dollar—these describe a simple-to-make, easy-to-use bulletin board that can be completed in an afternoon. It was devised by Mrs. Barbara Fishburn of Ogden, Utah, who made several for her children, who were great collectors of this-and-that. To construct one of these bulletin boards, first obtain a piece of composition board, approximately 17" x 26" (costing about fifty cents), or in any shape you may prefer. Cover with burlap in your choice of color, requiring not more than two-thirds yard, and costing about forty cents. Stretch the material smoothly over the board, keeping the grain of the fabric straight. Glue in back and tack or staple securely. Corners should be carefully clipped and mitered, making them as flat as possible. Now, decorate and trim to your heart's desire with lions, flowers, fruits, bees, parasols, butterflies, fish, or trees! Bits of colored felt to match your decor are ideal for this. Apply a stick-on wall hanger, provide push-pins, or those with glass heads—then use well and often. 357 Much of Worth - The Relief Society Magazine Mabel L. Anderson m'"That surely must be a good Magazine,' Mark said, as he took his grandmother's picture. ""You are always reading it." "It is, the best in the world,' Grandma Violet Nielsen answered as she continued to peruse The Relief Society Magazine. That she was always reading it, was not quite accurate. When one saw the mountains of sewing she did, of cross-stitched aprons, pillows, quilt tops, crocheting, and items for the bazaars and trousseaux for granddaughters; when one tasted her good home cooking, and visited her neat little home, one knew that her hands were indeed busy. But when leisure moments came to her, when she must stop to rest, the litthe Magazine she loved was right at hand, by her rocker or easy chair, or bedside table. As soon as the postman delivered it, matters of less urgency were dropped ''just to glance through it."