[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 394 | Home | Work Meeting — Clothing Care Adds to Wear Margaret | P. Childs]
WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Margaret P. Childs Chairman, Clothing and Textiles Department Brigham Young University CLOTHING CARE ADDS TO WEAR Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1966 Southern Hemisphere: January 1967 Objective: To show how to extend wear-life of clothing INTRODUCTION The sense of well-being and adequacy which homemakers enjoy when they can provide clean and appropriate clothing for each member of the family to wear in all of their various activities, is well worth striving for. Unfortunately, many of us never reach that goal. In the mistaken idea that more clothes are needed, we tend to acquire an ever-increasing wardrobe and, thereby, further complicate the problem. An oversupply of clothes takes a toll of time, money, and energy for handling, care, and storage out of all proportion to its usefulness. Wise choice of each wardrobe item, then, is the first step in clothing care. But for the purpose 394 by systematic, good care. Of this discussion, we are concerned with. The actual "care techniques" which extend the wear-life of clothing. The working tools of clothing care are a systematic routine, some good technical skills, and a basic understanding of the factors involved in clothing care. When the laundry or ironing piles up or clothes are not wearable because a seam has to be restitched or a strap mended, we might as well not own the clothes. They are only useful when they are in wearable condition. Mother should not try to do all the work herself and deprive the family of a chance to learn and to share the work. Children appreciate their possessions more ~_s 4 when they are responsible for them. LAUNDERING The most effective laundry procedures, regardless of the kind of equipment used, will be based upon these factors: 1. Pre-spot bad soil and stains. 2. Sort clothes for color, soil, and fiber content. Wash dark and light colors separately. Do not wash badly soiled articles with lightly soiled ones. Never wash white synthetics with colored clothes. 3. Pre-soak soiled clothing in cool water for 10 to 15 minutes to loosen and float away some of the soil that hot water would set in the clothes. Some soap or detergent may be added to make the soak period more effective. A chlorine bleach, in measured amounts, will aid soil, stain and bacteria removal. Do not overbleach. 4. Wash in very hot (soft or conditioned) water to which a proper amount of soap or detergent has been added. Prolonged washing may damage fabric, and a too-short period of agitation will not remove all the soil. Too much or too little soap is equally ineffective. 5. Rinse thoroughly to remove all detergent, bleach, and remaining soil. Use fabric softeners only occasionally. Starch clothes that require body, or that will resist soiling better when they are smoother or stiffer. 6. Dry in sunlight or dry in tumble dryers to the just-dry state, as overdrying damages fabrics. Some colors, and all nylons, silks, and wools, are best dried out of sunlight which will deteriorate them. The _ brighteners used in many detergents on the market to brighten colors and whiten whites also deteriorate and become ineffective in sunlight. However, sunlight has a bleaching and sanitizing effect. Cottons smell fresher when sun-dried. Heat-sensitive fibers and wash-wear cottons are permanently wrinkled by high temperature and overdrying. Read labels on clothing for instructions on proper care. Freezing helps bleach cotton, but frozen fabrics are easily damaged by handling. Boiling also bleaches, but weakLESSON DEPARTMENT ens fabrics, and high temperatures speed the damage of bleaches and strong soaps. IRONING Good ironing requires: 1. Uniform dampening and ironing within twelve hours after dampening. Mildew forms quickly in warm temperatures and even when the odor and color can be removed, mildew damage is permanent. 2. Iron with temperature adjusted to the fabric and fabric finish. Scorch is permanent damage, even when the color is bleached away. 3. A well-padded, clean, smooth ironing surface on a board of comfortable height. Soiled ironing surfaces give up scorch and soil to damp clean fabrics. 4, Skill in the use of the iron. Ironing with fabric grain, and ironing the underside of thick areas first are helpful techniques. 5. Careful folding or hanging of ironed garments. PRESSING To press successfully: 1. Thoroughly brush away lint and dirt which damage color and fiber. 2. Choose the right press cloth— tissue paper for sheer fabrics, wool or canvas for woolens and worsteds. Always use the same side down. 3. Dampen uniformly with a sponge avoiding excess moisture. 4. Suit the iron temperature to the fabric. 5. Press, do not iron. Steam alone will relax most wrinkles which can then be brushed away or pressed with the hand. 6. Shape different areas with rolled towels, - press cushions, or sleeve boards. SPOTTING Some types of soil permanently bond to fabrics if not removed immediately. In general, wash fabrics can be treated by home methods, and dry-clean fabrics are best cleaned by professional cleaners, but there are exceptions. 


 It is best not to try to remove anything from non-washable fabrics that will not come out with clear cool water. Clothes should be cleaned before becoming too badly soiled. Tell the cleaner what caused the spots and what you did, if anything, to remove them. For wash fabrics, pre-treat blood, egg, meat, catsup, ink, and similar stains with cool water. Rub detergent into soil caused by body oils, grass, tar, cosmetics, oil, greasy foods, and perspiration. Then rinse with clear water. Harden gum and candle wax with ice and pick off the fabric. Pour boiling water from a_height (about elbow height) through fruit juice stains. Grass and ballpoint pen ink can be removed by soaking in alcohol, but it may damage colors. A helpful bulletin for home use is the U. S. Department of Agriculture bulletin "Removing Spots and Stains from Fabrics."' (Suggest your own national government sources.) STORAGE Seasonal clothes should be stored when not in use to protect from dust, mildew, strong light, and insects. Moth and carpet beetles feed on wool, silk, hair, and feathers. While cedar chests and moth balls help some, the best insurance is airtight storage of thoroughly cleaned and brushed garments. Silver fish eat rayons and other cellulose fibers. These insects breed in damp cracks and sometimes require fumigation to rid a home from their damage. Dust destroys colors and wears fibers. Store clothes where they cannot collect dust. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Techniques described herein could well be demonstrated, such as: Laundering helps, correct ironing procedures, pressing a man's or woman's suit, spotting techniques for various fabrics, or storage facilities. Some demonstrations of the care of the new "wash and wear" fabrics may also be helpful.

RIC 4e3 Pots and pans stay "'white glove'' clean Hf its electric, its better!
