[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 322 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]

I have been reading our wonderful Magazine for seventeen years, and love every issue. Now I am a ward representative and take great pleasure in ordering and placing the Magazine in as many homes as possible. I so much enjoyed reading the conference address by President Belle S. Spafford, ''The Blessings of Experience'' (November 1965); and ''Teaching the Gospel,'' by President Joseph Fielding Smith (January 1966). These addresses are so uplifting to us all in these troubled times. Margaret L. Dickinson Oroville,. California Every time I pick up a copy of our choice Magazine and read the beautiful and wholesome contents, I thank God for my heritage. What a blessing to be able to read, to have at my fingertips words of comfort, inspiration, strength, and encouragement. But this is not all. The short stories and poems feed that part of my soul which yearns for expression and understanding. I am thankful for the Magazine. I am_= in love with it. Phillis L. Grayson. Hunter, Utah I am thankful to have had the pleasure of receiving The Relief Society Magazine, which has been ordered as a gift to me three times by the mother of the missionary who converted and baptized me four and a half years ago. The Magazine has been a great help to me in many ways, in my callings as literature class leader, first counselor, and secretary-treasurer in our branch. The Magazine has helped me to understand and live the gospel better. It has helped me to read and speak English. It thrilled me when I saw a picture from Switzerland on the cover and one inside the Magazine. Margrit Stauffer Kuhn Baldwin Park, California (formerly of Solothurn, Switzerland) 322 I must teil you how much I appreci the Magazine, especially now that are 7,000 miles away from home, é our only contact with the Church is mail. There are three families of us and since the other two sisters we have invited them to join with me t Sunday evenings a month to study Relief Society lessons. It might s difficult for Statesiders to unders how we hunger for the gospel, and have been on Saipan only t months. My husband reads The C dren's Friend from cover to cover, well as The Relief Society Maga Reading Dorothy Roberts' poem " ple Spires'' in the February Mage made me come into the bedroom a lock the door so our maid wouldn't me cry. It still remains a thrill to something I have written published. Love Mary Scopes' illustrations. Janet E Mariana Isla I would like to express my apprecié for The Relief Society Magazine. I just finished reading the Dece Magazine (with lessons for Ma from cover to cover. I have been te ing school for the past eight ye and so have been unable to a Relief Society meetings, but meetings are being held for the ing sisters on Sunday morning, the Priesthood meetings are bh held. Eloise Mc Blackfoot, Id I had occasion to lend four issues The Relief Society Magazine to soi nonmember friends. The man emergency surgery, and I thought wife would like something to while she waited. Both the husb and the wife commented on the derful stories, poems, color pict and how the lesson material had g them a new insight concerning Le day Saint beliefs. ' Mrs. Dorothy Eri Mt. Carroll, Ili the Relief Society Magazine 

 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford
