[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 360 | Home | Cousins Genevieve | Van Wagenen]
Genevieve Van Wagenen m As youngsters we romped together, sat on the back porch at grandma's, and ate jam on homemade bread which she had baked. We laughed at our jam-smudged faces, appointed a committee of one, to ask for "seconds" for us all. Together, we peeked into the silent parlor (which was usually off limits), admired the red plush chairs and spun glass flowers grandma prized so highly. Disregarded the cautions and warnings and slid down the banister, walked the picket fence, climbed the apple tree, ate our fill of I ' green apples. Caught pollywogs and water skaters under the bridge. Popped corn, we helped grandpa shell, by rubbing two cobs together. Tested skill, as we jumped on the hay in grandpa's bam. Acted as good Samaritans by removing the itchy straw we'd tumbled into, from each others shirts and necks and hair. Drank water from grandpa's sparkling flowing well. Made yards and yards of dandelion chains. Played train in the old wooden swing, each taking his turn being the conductor, collecting tickets, calling stations, and letting passengers on and off. We shared birthday parties and valentines, Thanksgiving Days and Christmas. Carved jack-o'- lanterns. Treasured the willow whistles grandpa taught us how to make—how carefully he selected the willow! How gently he tapped the bark with his pocket knife, to loosen it; then slipped it off and made that all-important notch in the wood, then slid the bark back on again. Each owner tested his out for sound. When each one had a whistle, we formed a band. Our enthusiasm would have made John Philip Sousa envious. Together we waited (during what seemed the longest time in our lives) while the adults ate their dinner. We watched the steaming bowls of vegetables passed about. The meat disappearing. Smelled the fragrant, tantalizing aromas that made us impatient. Listened to the adults' joyous conversation that droned on endlessly. At last someone remembered us. The dishes were cleared away, the table reset, the bowls refilled. After what had seemed an eternity, we were all seated around the table. Yes, our hopes and prayers had been answered, there was still some chocolate cake left, and homemade ice cream, enough to make the rounds—but not enough to satisfy our appetites. (Could it ever?) We were often together on Sunday evenings. We sang hymns together and knelt in our family prayer as grandpa prayed for one and all. We waved or called goodbye as each family separated and trudged home. So much we shared together of fun and love, of learning and comradeship. The sidewalk wasn't broad enough to hold us all, as we walked with arms locked - around each other's necks. Yes, there were favorites among our group. We tolerated the younger "tag-alongs" and "tattle tales" and made plans to "get even" with youthful informers—plans that had never materialized, for THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT grandfather, as patriarch, meted out justice to both accused and accuser and taught a Christian lesson to both. We were a happy, carefree group of youngsters. Tall and short, blond and brunette, blue eyes and brown, curly hair and straight, but somewhere _intermingled in all our differences was a similarity. We bore the trademark of our sturdy pioneer ancestors—you could tell we "'belonged." THEN industry and _ transfers scattered our families. No longer was distance measured by blocks and miles. We were separated by states and hundreds of miles, even thousands of miles. Years parted us. Rarely did we share together the warmth of grandpa's stove, or gather round the organ grandma played. When we were there—others were not. No time seemed convenient for all. We heard of "doings," achievements, and tragedies. Grandma kept in touch with all. Then. Grandma passed away. Then grandpa. That was the last time we were all together. The communication lines never again operated as efficiently as when grandma was in charge. Procrastination, neglect, responsibilities —life itself, almost severed the lines of communication. Aunt Mary, the family genealogist is our main source of information, now. Recently we have been returning—returning at rather frequent intervals. Not to grandpa's home, for it has long ago been sold. Not to our childhood homes; for years they have housed strangers. We have returned with bowed and 


 reverent heads, with loved ones, to the quiet, hallowed family plots. To pay last respects to a beloved parent, a favorite uncle, or a thoughtful loving aunt. We look around. At first glance, there are strangers in our midst, but they are strangers only momentarily. A smile, a softly spoken childhood nickname, a_ peculiar little chuckle, erases the camouflage of years and reveals—our cousins! What memories crowd around! What joys abound! What surprises! Little blond curlyheaded Georgie, whom we've remembered through the years as being such a doll, is a tall, distinguished, gray-haired lawyer, now. Tom, who once could jump the farthest in the hay loft, has continued to make great strides— he is a big executive in the East. Skinny Mildred has changed so much—she is well-padded, now. We never would have recognized her, if she hadn't been with Aunt Mill. Just think, we who once were pals, could have passed on the street without knowing one another! The handshakes are firm, the hugs and kisses plentiful. We feel the family's eternal tie. Lapy luck has leaned heavily on some. Other cousins, she has snubbed. Tragedy has trudged the path with some. Success has followed others all the way. Talent has mingled freely with them all. Some have clung to the "iron rod," others relinquished their grasp and habits now seem to have pushed it beyond their reach. But wait! There is hope! They were wiping their eyes after the dedicatory prayer. The solemnity of life has made an im- 362 pact upon them. Faith has been fanned into a spark. Its light reflects in their eyes. Resolve is felt in their grip and voice. Grandma will be pleased. The cemetery is a sacred spot for us. Grandfather and grandmother are buried here, and their parents before them—our courageous, God-fearing pioneers. Grandfather was sexton at the cemetery for a number of years. As youngsters, we knew the cemetery well. There were old familiar headstones and _ wellknown family names that caught our quick attention. The towering granite shaft of the wealthiest man in town stands high above all others. There is the "weeping woman" carved in whitest marble, sitting with bowed head. She has kept a silent vigil through all these years. "Over there is another familiar stone," said cousin Beth, motioning southward. Yes, there was the huge gravessize slab of pinkish brown marble. It is two feet thick. In the center rests a large highly polished ball of matching marble. The ball is all of three feet high. ""Do you remember how that bothered us? We worried how that poor man would ever get out on resurrection day, with all that weight on him." So we reminisced, happy in our reunion. Sorrowing that only a funeral could bring us together. Mindful of the fact that once goodbyes were said, and each went his separate way, we might not meet again in this life. Such is life, and time. But we are thankful for our rich heritage, our common bond, and the joyous happy years of youth we spent together as cousins.