[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 373 | Poem | Memories in May Annie | Atkin Tanner]
MEMORIES IN MAY Annie Atkin Tanner I never feel a May b reeze touch my face But I see apple blossoms Pink and fragrant, Leaning on a brown and aging fence. In memory I see 2 pear tree standing With all its pristine whiteness Veiled in moonlight, And on its topmost Singing joyously, As if the whole wor branch a mocking bird id heard 'his song. I never listen to a spring wind Shake the branches by my window, But I see a lilac bush With heart-shaped leaves And purple sprays of blossoms, Drooping in the evening rain. Then all the years between are gone And I am young and home again. 373 @ The spirit of Relief Society — that of service — is exemplified in the faithful performance of the callings of stake and ward Relief Society magazine representatives. The stake Magazine representatives give guidance, direction, and stimulation. The ward Magazine representative may walk through rain, she may carefully pick her way on icy paths, she may return a second and third time to procure a subscription. The service she renders, however, is not confined to one time, twice, or to three times. The service extends itself over a twelve-month period and beyond. The joy and inspiration which a Magazine representative brings are expressed by the following: The Magazine has been a great comfort to me. It also helped me in preparing talks for Church. The Magazines are a constant source of inspiration to us in rearing our son and building our family relationships. No college student should be without the Magazine. I wish to express my gratitude for the support my family receives from the Relief Society Magazine. It has helped to build faith within each family member, five girls and a boy, and the father and mother. It has also enriched their literary world. I love the warmth and friendship the Magazine brings to me, and the chance to visit with my sisters around the world. The fresh ideas it has on homemaking and caring for my family are much appreciated, but I value most the spiritual growth the