[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 353 | Home | Look for the Small Clues Kaye | T. Roberts]
[Look for the Small Clues Kaye T. Roberts]

In 


 his mad rush he forgets to close it tightly., Inside, I close my umbrella and wonder, has he eaten? Removing my wet raincoat I walk toward the kitchen. Rain has brought early darkness and I switch on the lights. If the cupboard and refrigerator doors are closed and the sink clear, then I expect to find a note saying he is planning to eat out. Normally though, he has left his clues; on the sinkboard an opened jar of mayonnaise, a jar of peanut butter, an empty soup can, a loaf of opened bread, a half-sliced onion, a greasy skillet. Tonight, the refrigerator door is ajar and a bit of meat is left in the skillet on the stove. Like Hansel and Gretel, he has trailed crumbs from the kitchen, through the hallway, and into his bedroom. In his bedroom, I look around for his slicker. Is it on his back, or will he come in later drenched to the skin? I figure this out by subtraction and deduction. His tan school pants are on the chair, and his shoes are upside down and his socks inside out on the green throw rug beside his bed. A brown belt is flung over the top of his dresser and his blue work pants are missing. Thus, I presume he has been in, changed, and gone to work. His slicker isn't draped over the chair back or thrown on his desk, so I hope it is on his back. And, yes, he has showered. The wet towel has been carried in and dropped on the bedspread, and the washcloth drips from the edge of the wash basin. Leaving the room, I pick up 354 an empty milk bottle, this morning's sports section, orange peels, a pair of soiled socks, and used notepaper that has missed the waste paper basket by a mile. I straighten the shades and hang up his pajamas. A lamp falls from a stack of magazines that are piled on his night stand. The lamp and magazines hit a pile of records, and they all strike the floor! All right, this is it! Starting tonight, I'm turning over a new leaf. We're going to improve this room. Completely discouraged, I size up Steve's room. Where have I failed? Tonight I'll be ready with a lecture. When he comes whistling in the door I'll be ready. How can this sixteen-year-old son of mine high jump, swing a tennis racket until it is a thing of beauty, play such a dreamy clarinet, and still be so thoroughly careless? How can he slip out of the door looking so clean-cut and leave this total mess behind? As I lift my hand to turn off the light, I see the report card that has slipped under his bed. Reading it, I want to cry. Four solids are only mediocre grades. I was so in hopes he'd make at least one accelerated class. I walk back to the kitchen, tired both in mind and body. Self-pity, that I so often hold in check, sweeps over me again. I've missed so much, not being home perhaps at the important moment, not being able to eat our meals together. Not being home when he opens the door, not being here to call goodbye when he walks out. In the service porch, something wet and dripping strikes me full in the face. I quickly flash on the switch and find three pairs of gym socks and two gym shirts hanging on a make-shift line to dry. The clorox is stifling. Sickly, I remember. I had forgotten to wash his gym clothes the night before. I enter the kitchen, ready to prepare a rather thin, lonely meal. There among the dirty dishes I find a note I had missed earlier. Steve had hurriedly written on a scrap of notebook paper: I just remembered that you might not get your check cashed. Here is three bucks... Go out and get yourself a good meal, Mom. P. S. You forgot to leave a note for the milkman. I'll bring two quarts of milk home from the store. Steve. Time for a lecture? I sink down on a kitchen chair. Forgive me, son, I think to myself. So you forgot to shut the door, hang up your clothes, and tidy your room. You had thought about me. You washed your gym clothes, and cloroxed them, bless you, right in my kitchen sink. At least you had tackled the job. In your own sixteen-year-old way, you had prepared your own food. Slipping my hand into my dress pocket, I bring out the report card. This time I read the THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT note from the teacher about an inquiry I had made about Steve's citizenship grades. "Steve is very cooperative," he wrote, '"'courteous, gets along well with others, appears to be welladjusted, and respects the rights of others. However, he needs to improve upon neatness on his homework assignments. He could make better use of his class time." I stand up straight and carefully fold the paper. On second thought, I'm not as fatigued as { first thought. My appetite is climbing. Just for tonight, I'll count my blessings, and forget about the lecture. Instead, I want to think of a rather clever note to leave upon the clean kitchen table, so Steve will be sure to see it when he takes the milk to the kitchen, later, when he comes from work. Something about thanking him for being so sweet and leaving me the three dollars. It would — take a bit of thinking, for sixteenyear-old boys don't like to be told they're sweet. I pick up the greasy skillet and put it to soak. In a short time, I think to myself, humming, while my own dinner cooks, the right words will come.