[Vol53 | May 1966 | Page 343 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
Mrs. Evelyn Wood, a Latter-day Saint woman, in 1959, established in Washington, D. C., the first ''Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics _ Institute."" Today she manages fifty-nine institutes in the United States and Canada. She has traveled in many countries speaking on the importance of reading, giving demonstrations, opening institutes, and directing schoolteachers in the application of her methods. Her new technique for rapid reading has been featured in many national magazines, and she is the author of a textbook 'Reading Skills.'' Patricia Gilroy, a student at the University of Washington, is an expert figure skater.
She has won two United States gold medals, and is a demonstrator of techniques relative to her ''art,'' as well as a lecturer on the subject. Katharine McBride, President of Bryn Mawr, ranks high among college presidents in the United States. She probably belongs to more key groups than any single male president. Among these organizations are the National Institute of Health and the National Science Foundation. She has served as president of the American Council on Education, and the College Entrance Examination Board. A noted psychologist, she has led Bryn Mawr for twentythree years. Mrs. Hattie Anderson, eighty-two, Leamington, Millard County, Utah, is still "'in business.'"' She is representative of storekeepers in rural areas, who dispense country hospitality and comforting words, along with horseshoes, rakes, hoes, canned goods, wearing apparel, yard goods, household supplies, and notions. Kathy Kusner has been acclaimed top horsewoman of the United States. She entered her first horse show at the age of twelve; scored her first win at fourteen; and at eighteen she set a woman's high jumping record of seven feet, three inches, a record which still stands. At twenty-one she made the United States Equestrian Team and was chosen '"'Horsewoman of the Year." Now, at twenty-five, she is making plans to participate in the 1967 PanAmerican Games, and the 1968 Olympics. Laura H. Fisher, a member of the Cheyenne Stake Relief Society Board, has recently had her second novel for children published, ''You Were Princess Last Time'' (Holt, Rinehart, and Winston). Mrs. Fisher's first book ''Amy and the Sorrel Summer" appeared in 1964. She is the wife of Dr. Roger Fisher, a professor at the University of Wyoming, and they have three children. Mrs. Margaret Durrance (Miggs Jennings) was a member of the 1948 United States Olympic Ski Team. Now she travels the world around writing articles on skiing and illustrating them with her own excellent photography. She is a specially appointed photographer. For the ''National Geographic Magazine." Mrs. Dorothy K. Haslam, mother of five children, who makes her home in Utah, is a member of the Museum of Ceremonial Art in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and is a well-known collector of Indian artifacts and a lecturer. She is an authority on sand painting and weaving, pottery, and jewelry.