Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon PRESIDENT TTRUMAN invited twelve outstanding American citizens to meet with Ex-President Herbert Hoover in the White House in March. They planned means of decreasing American consumption of food in order to send more to famine-stricken peoples. Among the twelve were Mrs. Anna Lord Strauss, President of the League of Women Voters, and Mrs. Emily G. Dickinson, President of the National Federation of Women's Clubs. Al eighty years of age, Sister Mary E. Abel is a visiting teacher's message leader in Relief Society and also a teacher in Sunday School in the Third Ward of American Fork, Utah. As first Relief Society president of that ward, she served for nineteen years. Since the age of thirteen she has continuously filled one or more positions in the Church. MB:. BELLE J. BENCHLEY has an unusual profession for a woman. For twenty years she has been curator of the San Diego Zoological Garden, California, which she has made into one of the greatest zoos in the world. She has originated and pioneered excellent features, many of which have been adopted by similiar institutions throughout America. MARCH 12, 1946, Mrs. Celestia Snow Gardner of Salt Lake City, Utah, was ninety-seven years old. She is the daughter of William Snow, brother of Erastus Snow. She has known all of the presidents of the Church except the Prophet Joseph Smith and has listened to their inspiring gospel messages. HREE Utah women have been appointed to national positions in the Parent-Teachers Association of the United States. Mrs. Arch J. West is president of the juvenile protection committee; Mrs. L. K. Nicholsen is chairman of the safety committee; Mrs. Eric A. Johnson, President of the Utah P. T. A., is a board member. [XN the American Legion Auxiliary, two Salt Lake women have been honored with national appointments. Mrs. Rae Ashton is vice-chairman of child welfare; Mrs. H. C. McShane, community service chairman. RS. GEORGE P. PARKER, formerly a member of the Relief Society General Board, is chairman of the home division of the Utah Safety Council. The excellent work of her division brought Utah the January national award for home safety. Page 315 C@?D EDITORIAL c~ ? VOL. 33 MAY 1946