Comments from Magazine Readers With this belated renewal subscription, I must write a few words of appreciation for mys, and for the women of goodness, talent, intelligence and inspiration who lead and have led the women of the Church. The contents of the Magazine are so varied and far-reaching. It always offers intelligent and inspirational reading especially in times of illness or when one needs comfort, strength or courage. ?Glendale, Calif. I am a faithful reader of your Magazine and I do enjoy it immensely. You are doing a fine job and I personally want to thank you for such a fine magazine. ?Ogden, Utah I appreciate your Magazine very much. I think it is wonderful and hope to convert more people to my idea. Your 8 1/3 cents a month is a very small price to pay for such a fine women's magazine. ?Moscow, Idaho I have been a subscriber of your wonderful little Magazine for years, the best little book that comes into a home with four teen-age children who always read it before I ever get a chance. Just wouldn't be without it. Payson, Utah I have always enjoyed reading the Magazine for it is very uplifting and a character builder for any individual. The sisters should make an effort to live up to the many teachings that are written in the book. Wailuku, Maui, T. H. For about thirty-five years I have been an appreciative silent reader. When I lived on a homestead many years ago, the Magazine was such a welcome visitor, as it still is. Many otherwise long, lonely hours slipped by while I was absorbed in some cheery story or interesting lesson outline. I was really grateful for the diversion the Magazine afforded me. I do not want to miss any of the Magazines. They are a great help and an inspiration to me both spiritually and temporally. I am proud to say I have sent in subscriptions for fourteen out of the sixteen families in my visiting district. ?West Los Angeles, Calif. Please renew my subscription so that I may receive the next issue. I teach theology and I like to prepare ahead of time. I feel deeply appreciative for such a magazine in my home. The editorials alone are worth its price??Monrovia, Calif. My January issue of Thecame today, and I wish I had words to express to you the appreciation I feel for this very fine publication. As I turned the pages and read each succeeding article, I felt what a wealth of material and spiritual uplift you have passed on to Relief Society workers. Your selection of material this month seems especially enticing to my spirit, and for that, and the fine work you are doing, I want to say, "Thank You." Salt Lake City I love the Magazine and enjoy reading every word within its cover. ?Gunlock, Utah I enjoy Theso much I always have it handy on a table or chair ready to read any time I get a few minutes??San Bruno, Calif. I like your Magazine. It is filling its niche with distinction ?Los Angeles, Calif. - I value the Magazine as my most important reading and study material. ?Provo, Utah We received Theyesterday and have read it almost through and enjoyed it thoroughly. The stories were fine and we had a good laugh. Graham, Washington Page 355