[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 907 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— Lesson 8— The Lord's Work and | His Glory]
[Spiritual Living— Lesson 8— The Lord's Work and His Glory]

INTRODUCTION The beautiful view of the earth from thousands of miles in space seen by the astronauts in 1969 should impress man with the fact 

907 December 1970

 that he is living on an island in a sea of space. As he looks into the heavens from his island-earth, he may be moved to exclaim with the Psalmist: O Lord our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! Who hast set thy glory above the heavens. When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou _ hast _ ordained; What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visiteth him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet: O Lord our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! (Ps. 8:1, 3-6, 9.) For those who lack the understanding of the revelations concerning man, there is an everpresent challenge to find a reason for his existence. Man seeks to find the answers to the questions: Who am I? Why am J here? What is the meaning of life? Class Discussion 1. What is the purpose of life? 2. Do you think the world has lost the knowledge of the purpose of life? If so, why? GOD'S REVEALED PURPOSE OF LIFE FOR MAN All of the standard works of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contribute to the revealed purpose for which the earth, man, and his environment exist. The Pearl of Great Price provides the most concise statement in scripture: "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the im- 908 mortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39. See also Moses 6: 59; D&C 29:43.) Admittedly, the Lord has provided us with other truths which also indicate purpose in life, but the foregoing truth summarizes the intent of God for man. PREMORTALITY Basic to an understanding of the purpose of life is the doctrine of premortality studied in an earlier lesson. (Lesson 3, Relief Society Magazine, September 1970, pp. 702-708.) Briefly, this doctrine, revealed anew in our dispensation, teaches that men and women are the spirit sons and daughters of the Eternal Father. When born as spirit entities, they differed in their talents, gifts, and powers as men and women do today. Those who have been or will be born on this earth elected to follow the plan of salvation presented in the premortal council; those who rebelled against that plan followed Satan and are seeking to destroy the souls of men. (Lesson 6, Relief Society Magazine, November 1970, pp. 843-50.) In this eternal plan, Latter-day Saints recognize that they are in this earth life by design and not by chance, that there is a definite purpose for this earth life, and that that purpose is made known in God's revelations to his prophets. Class Discussion What bearing does the doctrine of premortality have upon the purpose of life? WHY AN EARTH LIFE? The first fundamental fact is that the spirit entity, male or female, was to be added upon with a physical body made of earth elements. Why? A modern revelation states that "the spirit and the body are the soul of man. And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul." (D&C 88:15-16.) A necessary part of man's progress and a purpose of his creation is that the soul might receive immortality, or the resurrection. (Moses 1:39.) This means that the physical body must be joined with the eternal spirit forever. Our Eternal Father is a resurrected Being of immortal flesh and bone. (Joseph Fielding Smith, comp., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1938], pp. 345-46; also D&C 130:22.) WHAT IS ETERNAL LIFE? It is the work and glory of God to bring to pass man's resurrection and also his eternal life. Included in the doctrine of the resurrection is the fact of the everlasting, conscious existence of the spirit and body combined forever. The spirit of man is already eternal. (D&C 93:29; 131: 7-8.) What, then, is eternal life? It is God's life; that is, he who attains unto eternal life, the greatest gift God bestows upon his worthy children, may become as God is. (D&C 19:10-12; 14:7.) This glory is to receive all that the Father hath, to be made equal with Christ, for they have overcome all things. (D&C 132: 22-24; 84:38; 76:58-60.) What is the purpose for which men are on the earth? Briefly Lesson Department expressed, it is that the spirit being may be united with earth elements (body) to insure a resurrected immortal body. Furthermore, those who receive the highest degree of glory—exaltation of eternal life—receive the powers of godhood. Class Discussion Why is it necessary to have a body in order to progress? WHAT MAKES IMMORTALITY AND ETERNAL LIFE POSSIBLE? There are some fundamental, revealed factors which make the resurrection and godhood possible. These are (1) the atonement of Jesus Christ, and (2) the appointed means by which men and women accept that atonement. In last month's lesson it was written that the atonement was made by Jesus Christ because he was literally the Only Begotten Son of the Eternal Father and through the Father he had power over death, even to bringing about his own resurrection. Furthermore, by reason of his inherited power and because he lived a sinless life, he was able to redeem man from his spiritual fall by bringing repentant man back into God's presence. This decision to be man's Redeemer and Savior was made in the premortal council. (Moses 4:1-4.) THE LAW OF SACRIFICE From the days of Adam the Lord revealed the need for man to offer sacrifice to him. After being shut out from the presence of the Lord, Adam and Eve were commanded that they should 

909 December 1970

 offer the firstlings of their flocks for an offering. Obedient to this commandment they were later asked by an angel why they offered such sacrifices. Adam said that he did not know but the Lord had commanded _ him. (Moses 5:4-6.) Then the purpose for such offerings was revealed by the angel: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth. Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore. (Moses 5: 7-8.) As President John Taylor wrote, the atonement of Christ fulfilled all of the sacrifices which were offered from the beginning, and the sacrament is now administered in remembrance of the great sacrifice made by Jesus Christ. (John Taylor, Mediation and Atonement [Salt Lake City: Stevens & Wallis, 1950], p. 125.) Why a blood sacrifice? "... Without shedding of blood is no remission." (Heb. 9:22. See also Heb. 9:19-22; Lev, 17:11.) President Joseph Fielding Smith points out that the ancient revealed practice of offering blood sacrifices had two purposes: (1) it pointed to the sacrifice of the Savior, and (2) it became a ""purifying agency which helped to remind Israel of sin and how to overcome [it]." Here also is the crux of the matter as applied to the sacrifice of Jesus Christ: Since it was by the creation of blood that mortality came, it is by the sacrifice of blood that the redemption from death was accomplished, and all creatures freed from Satan's grasp. In no other way could the sacrifice for redemption of the 910 world from death be accomplished. Blood being the agent of mortality, it had to be returned to Satan and to death, whence it came. The Beloved Son of God was chosen before the foundation of the world to redeem mankind. It had to be a redemptiont * by the shedding of blood; also it had fo be by a God, who had power over death, one who could lay down his body by the shedding of his blood, and then take his body up again by the inherent power which was in him. Jesus obtained his blood from his mother Mary; he obtained his power over death from his Father. Therefore he could and did voluntarily surrender himself to his enemies who crucified him by the shedding of his blood. When he arose from the tomb, he was free from blood, and his body had become subject to eternal law henceforth and forever. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Answers to Gospel Questions [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1960], 3:102-103.) The sacrifice of animals was symbolical or "in similitude" of Jesus' sacrifice. (Heb. 9:11-28; 10: 1-31; Rom. 3:21-27; Eph. 1:7; 1 Pet. 1:18-21.) Jesus instructed the Nephites after his resurrection that, with the discontinuance of the law of Moses, the Lord required the sacrifice of a broken heart and a contrite spirit which would lead to an acceptance of the atonement for their individual salvation. (3 Ne. 9:19-22.) IMMORTALITY According to the scriptures all men will be resurrected. (Moses 7:62; I Cor. 15:20-23; John 5:28- 29; Dan. 12:2; D&C 88:28-32.) The resurrection of which the scriptures speak is the literal raising of the body, both limb and joint. (Phil. 3:20-21; Al. 11:43-45; D&C 129:1-2.) The resurrected body will consist of the spirit entity, the flesh and bones, and spirit element. (D&C 88:27; Al. 11:45; Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 7:163 [hereafter referred to as JD.) The revelations speak of the resurrected body as being physically perfect. (Al. 11: 43-44; 40:23; Roy W. Doxey, The Doctrine and Covenants and the Future [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1969], pp. 105-15.) By the resurrection men are redeemed from death and the grave through the atonement of Jesus Christ. (2 Ne. 9:13; Mosiah 16:7-8; Morm. 9:12-13; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 84.) Thus, a purpose of God for man is accomplished—his immortality. HOW MEN ACCEPT THE ATONEMENT OF JESUS CHRIST Adam was commanded to have faith in the Lord, repent of his sins, be baptized in water in the name of Jesus Christ, and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, which commandments he obeyed. (Moses 6:52, 64-66.) The Lord told Adam that "This is the plan of salvation unto all men, through the blood of mine Only Begotten, who shall come in the meridian of time." (Moses 6:62.) Children who are under the age of eight, the year of accountability, are redeemed by the atonement of Jesus Christ without these saving principles and ordinances of the gospel. (Mosiah 3:16; Moro. 8:20; D&C 29:46-48; 74:7.) Those also who are as little children, the mentally retarded who are incapable of understanding, are also saved by the atonement without obedience to these principles and ordinances. (Moro. 8:22; D&C 29:50.) They who are eight years of age or over and who have understanding are comLesson Department manded to repent that they may be saved. (D&C 68:25-27; 29:49.) FAITH IN JESUS CHRIST Implanted into every heart is the seed of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ that may begin as passive belief, but when nurtured by obedience to commandments, prayer, and involvement in the workings of the Church, passive belief will grow into faith. A good discussion of the distinctions between belief, faith, and knowledge is found in the writings of Elder James E. Talmage. (The Articles of Faith [Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1966], pp. 96- 100; see also Al. 32:28-43.) Essentially, belief does not necessarily * spur one to action, but faith will do this. Knowledge is to know, whereas faith is to hope for things unseen, with the assurance of obtaining them. (Al. 32:18, 21.) To be saved in God's kingdom requires the power to resist sin after having made covenants with the Lord. Faith in Jesus Christ carries the power to resist sin. When tempted, a person of faith remembers his Savior and the love the Savior has demonstrated for him in offering himself as his Atoner. The person remembers what would have been if that atonement had not been made. (2 Ne. 9:6-9.) Man is always given power sufficient to follow the way of eternal life if he will resist temptation. (1 Cor. 10:13.) THE GIFT OF REPENTANCE The apostle Paul referred to two kinds of sorrow arising out of sin. The "sorrow of the world" is that remorse which turns one 

911 December 1970

 away from a sin in order to satisfy one's personal needs; as an example, a person might change his life to regain the respect of his family and friends or quit smoking for fear of contracting lung cancer. Though turning from the sin, there still remains the affront to God by breaking his commandments. This kind of sorrow, said Paul, "worketh death." (2 Cor. 7:10.) The sorrow for wrong committed that arises out of knowing that one has sinned against God is the "godly sorrow [that] worketh repentance to salvation." (2 Cor. 7:10.) In this case the sinner seeks to rectify his past conduct by changing his life with God's help, and thus he is made "sorry after a godly manner." (2 Cor. 7:9.) God grants man the ability to repent when he exercises true faith in his Son Jesus Christ. Before baptism in water, man prepares himself to receive covenants in showing the Lord he wants to be one with him. After baptism, repentance becomes the principle of forgiveness whereby one may be kept on the way to perfection by the discontinuance of evil practices. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1956], pp. 100- 101; Spencer W. Kimball, The Miracle of Forgiveness [Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1969], chapter 12.) WATER BAPTISM Jesus becomes our Atoner for salvation, provided we have faith in him, repent of our sins, and accept the ordinances of water and spirit baptism. (D&C 18:11- 12; 29:17.) 912 Water baptism is the symbol of the atonement when administered by immersion by one having the divine authority. It is the "blood of Christ" which saves, but baptism is the way one accepts it. Paul likened this baptism to the Savior's going down into the grave and rising up to a new life; so also, the repentant person goes down into the water in similitude of Christ's atonement and is raised to a new life, devoid of offense toward God and man, having left sin behind. (Rom. 6:3-6; Moses 6:58-59; Mark 1:4; Acts 2:38; 22:16; D&C 49:13- 14.) SPIRIT BAPTISM The laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost performed by an authorized servant of God also remits sins. Unless one receives both water and spirit baptism, there is no remission of sins and therefore no exaltation. (John 3:5; 2 Ne. 31:17; D&C 19:31.) A purpose of the atoning sacrifice of Christ is to bring man into spiritual union with God that he may regain his presence. Spiritual life is received through obedience to the principles and ordinances by which the atonement of Christ becomes effective for salvation. (D&C 29:43-45; Joseph F. Smith, JD, 23:169-71.) The gift of the Holy Ghost provides gifts to the recipient that he may not be deceived by the powers of men and Satan. Class Discussion Show the relationship between water and spirit baptisms and the atonement of Christ.

(continued on page 931) = a RZ) CORONA! Legs I = = om = & =a =: -__ ~~ me A we - NIA) AAG o Nez UT "I I im I I — l l! I I I ce ae ws » EA —_—_ = > SO « ih — = — A - a a en CE —— <2 cae —— 7 wa °° & > -. = aa f cam Se © oe ow Ge SE Oo aR GE cee & 2 eR —ee ee ce Ce "F AeVe) O38«5! (hee RS! (No s Sane Christ in Gethsemane.