[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

﻿		NOTES AND NEWS.

	MARRY for love, young man, but remem-
ber that  is as easy to love a girl whose pa
has a hundred thousand in the bank as one
whose old man sits up behind a pair of
mules and yells, "Whoa! you Pete, or I'll
take your ear off!"
	THE PRINCE of Wales on his visit to In-
dia, will be accompanied by four representa-
tives, of London Journals. Dr. Russell for
the Times, Mr. Forbes for the News, Mr.
Henty for the Standard; and Mr. Edwin
Arnold for the Telegraph.
	IN WISCONSIN a new law has gone into ef-
fect, providing that every woman over 21
years of age, residing in the district where
certain duties are to be performed, shall be
considered eligible for the following offices:
director, treasurer, clerk of school districts,
director and secretary of town boards, un-
der the township system of school govern-
ment. Members of a board of education in
cities and county superintendents of schools.
	A JUST and sensible scale of salaries has
been adopted by the Board of Education, of
Nashville, Tennessee. They have decided
to pay each teacher for the actual work per-
formed, without distinction in regard to
sex. When directors and law-givers in
general, see fit to lay down the rules on such
equitable terms, women will have less occa-
sion to clamor for their rights than they
now have, and will probably talk less, and
be less talked about.
	IT IS stated now by the Eastern papers,
that the direct cause of the destructive fire
at Holyoke was the use of trimmings etc.
about the altar; also the entire building was
sheathed with pine instead of plaster. The
coronor's verdict condemns those who had
the construction of the interior of the build-
ing, they not having provided sufficiently
for egress therefrom. Already eighty have
died and there are more who are not expected
to survive the effects of that most distressing
catastropher.
	A BOOK recently published by the Rev.
Dr. Jessup, who was seventeen years a
missionary in Syria, gives one some ideas
concerning the people and customs of that
Eastern land. A large part of them speak
the Arabic language, and are devoted follow-
ers of Mohammed. The women among
them are looked upon as something very in-
ferior, and when a baby girl is born, there
is mourning, whereas, at the birth of a boy
there is rejoicing. A Mohammedan Mufti,
in reply to Dr. Jessup suggesting girls being
taught, said, "Teach a girl to read and
write! Why she will write letters, sir, yes,
actually write letters! The thing is not to
be thought of for a moment." There is still
work to do for those who have the means
and ability in elevating the women of that
far-famed land, where our blessed Savior
lived and taught the principles of divine
truth, where He was scourged and beaten,
and at last crucified.
	A WOMAN PREACHING IN ENGLAND.—
	John bull says that another clergyman's
relative has taken to preaching. "Miss
Laura Addiscott, who delivered the ad-
dresses at Deptford on Sunday week, is 

[Column 2]
youngest daughter of Mr. J. L. Addiscott,
and neice of the late Rev. H. Addiscott, of
St. Paul's, Taunton. She is of middle
height, and apparently eighteen years of
age. She conducted the services without
any aid from others. She gave out hymns,
prayed with great fervor, and read the
Scriptures admirably. In the evening she
took her text from a portion of Mark vi.
The address lasted over three-quarters of
an hour. Her appeals were forcible, her il-
llstrations homely, usually the result of per-
sonal observation, and, as a rule, well chosen
and well applied."
	BUNKER HILL'S centennial exhibition
in Charleston, Mass. last month was evi-
dently a grand success. The procession was
ten miles long, consisting of nine divisions,
and was four hours and ten minutes in
passing any given point. The route was
six miles long, from Columbus Avenue to
Winthrop Square. The military is estima-
ted as numbering 11,500 persons and the
aggregate number of the procession 26,000.
Judge Devens delivered the oration, com-
mencing with a WELCOME etc. Next he
expatiated at some length upon the Harvard
men who were engaged there a hundred
years ago; afterwards of Prescott and War-
ren, next the constitution, the duty of con-
cilation, then Sumner, and in conclusion
exhorted the audience to imitate the exam-
ple of those who there fought for civil and
religious liberty, not like the Romans or Gre-
cians for love of war. In the evening an
informal reception was given by the Mass.
Commander of the Loyal Legion of the U.
S., to Gen. Sherman, at the Parker House,
which was largely attended by the most dis-
tinguished people, and was exceedingly
pleasant.


[Column 1]
