[President George F. Richards by Joseph Fielding Smith]

PRESIDENT GEORGE F. RICHARDS VOR forty years I sat in council, attended conferences, and served in various ways with President George F. Richards. He, with Elders Orson F.
Whitney and David O. McKay, was called into the council of the apostles in April 1906.
Four years later, in April 1910, I followed.
From that time forward until his death I was closely associated with President Richards. We have traveled together from one end of the stakes of Zion to the other. In the early days, we, the brethren of the general authorities, went two by two in the visits to the stakes of Zion.
Where railroads did not take us, and such places were numerous, we usually traveled in what were known as "whitetops," which were light spring wagons.
Distant trips usually meant appointments to two stakes, frequently to three or four. On such trips meetings were held daily between stake conferences in the various settlements, or wards, of the stakes.
Such trips were over bumpy roads, sometimes merely trails, through heavy dust in the summer and the biting cold of the winter, frequently through heavy mud or heavy snows.
Roads were not kept open in those days as they are today. However, in making these extended journeys by team, at times suffering from the heat or the cold, we had the assurance that our teams would carry us through safely, even if the journeys would be long. Today, with good paved roads and swift automobiles, we are not always so sure of reaching our destination in such safety, for now the brethren face hazards on icy roads, and with the help of the Lord have been preserved miraculously, at times. I repeat, in that early day, we went two by two, today the brethren have to travel singly. In 1910, there were only thirty-eight stakes of Zion and today they number 180, and they are still increasing. [N 1921, President George F.
Richards was appointed president of the Salt Lake Temple and I was appointed to be his counselor. ] 662
From that day until his passing we were closely associated in the work of the temple. I do not remember the time when I first became acquainted with him; it was several years before his call to the apostleship. He and I were privileged to accompany President Joseph F.
Smith and his party to the dedication of the birthplace and monument in memory of the Prophet Joseph Smith on the one hundredth anniversary of the Prophet's birth. On this trip President Richards and I became more closely acquainted. I would like to say something which. I have not mentioned before. Not long after his call into the apostleship, he, one day, said to me that the time would come when I would also be called into that council. I felt at the time that in this he could not have spoken by inspiration, for at the time I had an older brother, Hyrum M., in that council; moreover, President George Albert Smith, my cousin several generations removed, was in that council, as was his father, John Henry Smith. Naturally, because of this condition, I dismissed the thought as merely a wish and paid no heed to it. I have always honored, respected, and loved President George F.
Richards because of his deep devotion to the cause of Zion, his great faith in the restored gospel, his sincere adherence to every principle of the truth that has been revealed. He loved the truth and his steadfast devotion was due to the fact that the Holy Spirit had borne upon his soul the truth of all these things. I feel assured that never was there a doubt in his mind of  the great mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, nor did he ever lose - his faith and devotion to the Prophet's successors, for the Lord had made known to him that all these things are true. He taught his family by example as well as by precept. It has often been remarked by his brethren that he, with the help of Sister Richards, to whom much of the credit of course is due, trained his children in the truth, and they have walked steadfastly, without exception, in the footsteps of their beloved father. The Lord once said of Abraham: "Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do. For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord, to do justice and judgment; that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him." So, likewise, could the Lord have spoken of President George F. Richards. He commanded his children, and they are keeping the commandments of the Lord. I pray that they may continue to do so to the latest generation. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has said that a great man has been taken from us.
This is verily true. We, his brethren, miss him greatly. We would have kept him with us longer, but he had filled his mission here, and his work now accompanies him into the spirit world, there to be continued until the great day when the Lord shall say: "Ye saints arise and live; ye sinners stay and sleep until I shall call again," for with the righteous he shall come forth from the dead when the Lord shall come. bine Is Where You Make It Olive Woolley Burt HERRY got up from the bed across which she had flung herself, and went to the mirror. She'd have to fix her face before Hal came. She didn't want him to see that she had been crying. She went slowly across the hall to the bathroom, washed her face in cold water, and brushed back the light brown hair that curled softly around her face, now' rumpled from burrowing in the pillow.
Back in the bedroom her mother had turned over to her and Hal— her own old room—she was just fastening a scarlet bow above her ear when Hal came in. "How's ma honey?" he sang gaily, putting his arms about her and bending until his face was beside hers in the mirrored reflection.
Cherry smiled. 'Right as rain!" she answered, and put up her hands to cuddle Hal's cheek. Oh, how she loved him! Hal put his hand under her chin and tipped her face toward the window. He studied it thoughtfully. "Tears, Cherry?" he "What's wrong, honey?" "Nothing, Hal," she answered. "IT was just thinking—how much I love you. I must skip now, and help Mother with dinner." She slipped away from his hand and dashed out into the hall and downstairs. She went into the dining room and saw that the table was already set. The sight sent a sharp, irritating sensation up her spine. Her mother was still angry, then. She was showing it in her customary asked. Way, by doing the things Cherry was expected to do, silently shutting Cherry out.
Cherry went into the kitchen. She wasn't a child to be punished in this way. Why did she feel it was punishment anyway? 'The answer was easy—because it was punishment.
Your mother didn't have to beat you to punish you. Her mother had never even scolded her. Her method was more subtle, more devastating. She just shut Cherry out of everything—out of all the life of the home, by taking over her daughter's little chores. It had always worked, Cherry thought resentfully. But she was a woman, now. She would pay no attention to her mother's tacit reprimands. "Shall I make the salad?" asked brightly. She ER mother, busy at the stove, shook her head. "No, really, darling; there's nothing to do. Why don't you go sit on the porch and keep Daddy company?" Suddenly Cherry could fight it no longer. She turned and left the kitchen, and met Hal coming down the stairs. "Hal!" she begged, "take me into town for dinner! Please, Hal—and a show." Hal glanced into the dining room, at the table set for the four of them. "But your mother..." he began doubtfully. "Hal!"
Cherry couldn't keep her voice from shaking. "Hal, take me  664 away for dinner or or I'll go alone!" Her husband looked at her, and nodded. "Okay, honey, come along." On the porch Cherry paused, ran across to her father, reading the evening paper in the porch swing. "Daddy, dear!" she bent and gave him a swift hug and a kiss on the top of his head where there was no hair to interrupt. "Daddy, tell Mother, Hal and I have gone into town. We don't know when we'll be back." "No dinner?" her father asked mildly. "We're stepping out, Daddy.
Dinner in town." Her father nodded. He was wonderful. It made no difference to him whether Cherry went out to dinner. He was so sure of her love for him and his for her, that nothing ruffled his composure in his dealings with her. * * * DRIVING along the wide country road toward town, Cherry nestled against Hal's arm. He asked her nothing, until a tiny sigh warned him that she was ready to explain.
Then he said, "Out with it, Ladybird. No use strangling on it." "Hal," Cherry spoke determinedly, "we've got to get away. I just can't stand it living in Mother's house any longer. I just can't!" she added emphatically. "Okay," Hal agreed, "have you decided where we are going to go?" "I don't care where we go! It is unbearable there.
Mother still thinks I'm a child. She still tells me what to do and what not to do. She  still punishes me if I don't mind her." Hal grinned. "That is news," he said. "I had a notion that my spoiled darling had never been punished at all." "Don't be funny, Hal!' Cherry was not in the mood to enjoy her husband's wit. "Of course I've not been beaten." His hand left the wheel and he hugged her impulsively. "You're precious!" he said. "Well," Cherry went on, reasonably, "there are worse punishments than whipping. And Mother knows how to administer them very effectively.
When she takes over my jobs —like she did tonight—setting the table..." "Most girls would be glad to have their mothers do their jobs like that.": Cherry shook her head. "No. She was mad at me, Hal. We had a quarrel today...
Over the baby." Hal couldn't help showing his amused disbelief. "Over the baby?" he asked. "Poor kid—not even born yet—and he's causing strife in the family." "Mother thinks I should name him after Daddy. She says Daddy has always been so good to me—and he has, Hal. I love him very much. But I love someone else more—and [ think you have the right to have your first son named after you." "Why not name him after both of us—Harold J. Levi Bronson Meldrum?" Hal asked, trying to sound serious. "Well, I didn't mind her having an opinion, and telling it to me, Hal," Cherry went on, ignoring his suggestion, ""but when I said no, and she began arguing, and then her HOME IS WHERE YOU MAKE IT 665 lips went tight— just like they al- out into the star-bright night again, ways do when she's angry; and then Hal turned back toward the hotel, she switched out into the kitchen 'The car's down this way, Hal," and started to whip up a cake— a she reminded him. chocolate cake, when I had just ''No, it isn't. I've parked it in told her I wanted to make one for the hotel garage, when I left you you— she just did it to punish me. there at dinner for a few minutes,"
I can't stay a little girl just because Hal explained. "And, honey, I've they have been good to us. So we've got us a room in the hotel tonight, got to move, Hal— before the baby I called your mother and told her comes. We've got to." we were staying in town, so everything's okay. In the morning we can OAL drove along a little way, with- decide . . . ." out speaking. From time to 'Is mother still mad at me?" time his eyes left the road and Cherry asked timidly, looked down at his pretty young Hal shook his head, wife. He estimated the misery in ''I made everything okay," he asher face, the rebellion and unhap- sured her. piness, and came to his resolution. It was like a honeymoon again
"Okay, honey," he said gently, —the two of them alone in a hotel
"You're not a little girl to me. I room, with the lights of the city know that when you decide a thing, twinkling on and off through the you've given it thought. We'll move windows. It was heavenly to be at once. Somewhere we will find alone with Hal— all alone, a place. Now forget it for awhile, and let's enjoy a real, old-time date. HPHE next morning Hal slipped
How's about it?" away and to work, and Cherry
He parked the car and, taking her lay luxuriously in bed, looking at arm, led her down the sidewalk the ceiling, feeling rich. After to the biggest hotel in town. awhile there was a knock on the "Roof garden would seem good door, and there was her breakfast, on a hot night like this, don't you all the things she liked best, for think?" he asked. her to enjoy in bed. And a news-
Cherry glanced swiftly at her paper. She studied the classified dress. ads.
"Hal, I'm not . . . ." She got up at last, bathed and "You're wonderful," he assured dressed, and went out, the folded her. "You walk like a queen, and so newspaper in her hand. When she your dress looks extra special, no went to the desk, the clerk handed matter what it is." her the car keys.
Cherry laughed, and they went up "Mr. Meldrum said for you to use in the elevator. the car today. Ma'am," he said.
The dinner was very good; and courteously. after the dinner Hal suggested a Cherry was glad— and free. She technicolor musical that was show- went to the garage and the attending in a nearby theater. ant brought the car, and she set out
When it was over and they went to answer the one or two not very

666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— OCTOBER 1950 promising ads listing rooms and it, Hal. Remember, we've got some apartments. big expenses coming up."
There was only one real vacancy '1 know, dear," he agreed. "And
—she was either too late for the Vm looking for a place, too. But it others, or they had never existed takes a little time. Did you call at all. This one, though, was in an your mother today?" awful looking house. Cherry's nose ''No," Cherry answered, hesitatlifted in distaste as she followed the ingly, ''but Fm going to." landlady up the dark stairs to the She dialed her mother doubtfully, third floor. remembering her own resentment
At the second floor landing, a big, when she left home, and half exburly dark man came thundering pecting that her mother's would against them, shoving them back have increased in the interval, against the wall as he passed. But her mother's voice was sweet
"Why don't you watch where and cheerful, and Cherry listened you're going, Steve?" shouted the in vain for any hint of anger, landlady. "Darling!" her mother cried,
The fellow gave an ugly grunt "have you had any luck? Hal said and went on, clomping down the you vv^ere going to find an apartstairs. ment, come what might."
"Not very courteous, is he?" Cher- "I've tried. Mother," Cherry ry said. answered, "but you've no idea . . ."
"Not him. But that's nothin'. "Oh, but I have, dear! I think
Folks here ain't got time to be cour- you and Hal had a marvelous idea, teous. Got work to do." though, to stay right in town where
"Does he live here?" Cherry you could grab one if it so much as asked, shuddering. poked its nose out of the ground.
"Sure— next room to the one I'm Tell me what it's been like." showin' you."
Cherry didn't even look at the 'pHEY talked. It was like old room, then. She didn't even see the times, and Cherry felt tears bepeeling paper and the smudgy win- hind her lashes as she realized how dows. She just shook her head and hungry she had been for the sound said, "No, thanks. I'm afraid this of her mother's voice, won't do." But I'm not going to give in, she
"Better take it and be glad," the told he rself fiercely. I'm not going woman said sourly. "Aren't many to be soft, ever again! apartments in this town." She could hardly bear to hang up
When Hal came to the hotel the receiver. Hal was already room that night, he found a very stretched out in bed. tired, but not discouraged Cherry "Fm dead tired," he groaned, "I waiting for him. didn't get any lunch— used my lunch
"Any luck?" he asked, kissing hour to go with Jim Stanton to look her. at a place he passed on his way to "Not yet. But there's always to- work— folks were moving out then, morrow. We can't stay here very But someone else had moved in by long," she said. "We can't afford the time we got there." He yawned.

Home is where you Mak^ it
M Cherry didn't even get a nibble the next day, either, but on the third day she met Anne Gillespie who lived in an apartment hotel high on the bench east of town. When
Anne heard of Cherry's plight, she spoke enthusiastically, ''Listen, Cherry, Mrs. Saunders, an old lady in the apartment above me, has a room. Her son and daughter-in-law have been with her, but he has been sent East. She's been hanging onto that extra room for dear life. I'll bet you and Hal could get it."
'Take me to her!" cried Cherry, and she almost pushed Anne toward the car.
Mrs. Saunders was a very charming lady, and she seemed definitely ready to let them have the extra room. But she hesitated.
"There's just one thing," she said gently. "I do not sleep well, and I will have to require that you be in early, and that you make no disturbance at all after I go to bed."
Cherry swallowed hard. Then she said, as pleasantly as she could,
"Well, of course, Mrs. Saunders, I realize that you would be doing us a great favor, indeed, taking us in, and we'd both try to do everything possible to be unobtrusive and no trouble, but I'd like to talk to my husband before settling the matter.
Will it be all right if I phone you this evening?"
She was discouraged, telling Hal about it.
"It would be terrible," she moaned. "She looks so gentle, but you could see she has a will of iron.
She's a tyrant, if ever there was one.
Oh, Hal!"
"We don't want her old room,"
Hal said. "Listen, honey! I've heard of a duplex."
"What are we waiting for?" cried
Cherry.
The desk clerk stopped their mad rush.
"Mr. Meldrum," he said, courteously, "you realize, I suppose, that tomorrow your four days are up?"
Cherry stared, openmouthed.
"What do you mean?" she gasped.
"Mr. Meldrum only took the room for four days, and it has already been reserved for another guest. He will be in tomorrow. The room is to be vacated by two o'clock."
Cherry thought she had never been so angry in her life. She switched along, seething.
When Hal caught up with her, she said resentfully, "I never heard of such insolence. Hal, what is the world coming to?"
Hal answered miserably, "I should have told you, but I thought we'd get a place by now. Maybe we will," he added, hopefully.
The duplex was still vacant. They rang the bell of the owner, who lived in one side.
"It's all been newly decorated, and fixed up," the owner bragged, turning on the light. Cherry gasped in delight. It was lovely.
"Of course," the landlord went on, "we've always kept it nice, and we're very careful about our tenants. No shenanigans, you understand, no parties or noise, no dogs or children."
Cherry stared at him. Should she keep silent, tacitly deny the wonderful thing that had happened to her and Hal? Never.
"We're going to have a baby," she said distinctly, "but of course, you
[Continued on page 694)

American Pottery and Porcelain
Part II— Contemporary American Wares
Rachel K. Laurgaard
Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson
IT has been the dream of many Since that time, other fine Ameri-
American potters to create a can chinas have been put on the distinctly American china which market. The Onondaga Pottery could stand beside the finest wares Company of Syracuse, New York, of other nations and make the most manufactures the beautiful Syracuse terest in the ceramic activity around j-^ted with fruit, floral, or deep-sea him, and determined to lend his motifs. skill and energy to its fulfillment. xhe Shenango Pottery Company
Although even his financial back- of New Castle, Pennsylvania, large ers prophesied failure, he established manufacturers of vitrified hotel his own factory and set about paying china, have recently become interoff his debts and perfecting his ested in two top-ranking home tableproduct. He called it American Be- wares. Since 1936, they have been leek, for it was the thin, ivory-tinted, carrying on the production of Havilustrous china of the little factory in land china, using formulas, and work-
Ireland which he chose to emulate men skilled in their use, sent from in design and appearance, though the Limoges factory. Thus it is now not in fragility. His goal was too possible to fill in sets of the famous close to relinquish, when, in 1895, gold-band Haviland and othe