[Home Is Where You Make It by Olive Woolley Burt]

HOME IS WHERE YOU MAKE IT lips went tight—just like they always do when she's angry; and then she switched out into the kitchen and started to whip up a cake—a chocolate cake, when I had just told her I wanted to make one for you—she just did it to punish me. I can't stay a little girl just because they have been good to us. So we've got to move, Hal—before the baby comes. We've got to." AL drove along a little way, without speaking.
From time to time his eyes left the road and looked down at his pretty young wife. He estimated the misery in her face, the rebellion and unhappiness, and came to his resolution. "Okay, honey," he said gently. "You're not a little girl to me. I know that when you decide a thing, you've given it thought. We'll move at once.
Somewhere we will find a place. Now forget it for awhile, and let's enjoy a real, old-time date. How's about it?" He parked the car and, taking her arm, led her down the sidewalk to the biggest hotel in town. "Roof garden would seem good on a hot night like this, don't you think?" he asked.
Cherry glanced swiftly at her dress. "Hal, ''m not." "You're wonderful," he assured her. "You walk like a queen, and so your dress looks extra special, no matter what it is." ] Cherry laughed, and they went up in the elevator. The dinner was very good; and after the dinner Hal suggested a technicolor musical that was showing in a nearby theater.
When it was over and they went 665 out into the star-bright night again, Hal turned back toward the hotel. "The car's down this way, Hal," she reminded him. "No, it isn't. I've parked it in the hotel garage, when I left you there at dinner for a few minutes," Hal explained. "And, honey, I've got us a room in the hotel tonight. I called your mother and told her we were staying in town, so everything's okay. In the morning we can decide." "Ts mother still mad at me?"
Cherry asked timidly. Hal shook his head. "J made everything okay," he assured her. It was like a honeymoon again —the two of them alone in a hotel room, with the lights of the city twinkling on and off through the windows. It was heavenly to be alone with Hal—all alone. HE next morning Hal slipped away and to work, and Cherry lay luxuriously in bed, looking at the ceiling, feeling uch.
After awhile there was a knock on the door, and there was her breakfast, all the things she liked best, for her to enjoy in bed. And a newspaper. She studied the classified ads. She got up at last, bathed and dressed, and went out, the folded newspaper in her hand.
When she went to the desk, the clerk handed her the car keys. "Mr.
Meldrum said for you to use the car today, Ma'am," he said, courteously.
Cherry was glad—and free. She went to the garage and the attendant brought the car, and she set out to answer the one or two not very 666 promising ads listing rooms and apartments. — | | There was only one real vacancy —she was either too late for the others, or they had never existed at all.
This one, though, was in an awful looking house. Cherry's nose lifted in distaste as she followed the landlady up the dark stairs to the third floor. | At the second floor landing, a big, burly dark man came thundering against them, shoving them back against the wall as he passed. "Why don't you watch where you're going, Steve?" shouted the landlady. The fellow gave an ugly grunt and went on, clomping down the stairs. 7 "Not very courteous, is he?"
Cherry said., "Not him. But that's nothin'.
Folks here ain't got time to be courteous. Got work to do." "Does he live here?"
Cherry asked, shuddering. "Sure—next room to the one I'm showin' you."
Cherry didn't even look at the room, then. She didn't even see the peeling paper and the smudgy windows. She just shook her head and said, "No, thanks. I'm afraid this won't do." |. "Better take it and be glad," the woman said sourly. "Aren't many apartments in this town." When Hal came to the hotel room that night, he found a very tired, but not discouraged Cherry waiting for him. "Any luck?" he asked, kissing her., "Not yet. But there's always tomorrow. We can't stay here very long," she said. "We can't afford  it, Hal. Remember, we've got some big expenses coming up." "IT know, dear," he agreed. "And I'm looking for a place, too. But it takes a little time. Did you call your mother today?" "No," Cherry answered, hesitatingly, "but I'm going to." She dialed her mother doubtfully, remembering her own resentment when she left home, and half expecting that her mother's would have increased in the interval. But her mother's voice was sweet and cheerful, and Cherry listened in vain for any hint of anger. "Darling!" her mother cried, "have you had any luck? Hal said you were going to find an apartment, come what might." "Tve tried, Mother," Cherry answered, "but you've no idea " "Oh, but I have, dear! I think you and Hal had a marvelous idea, though, to stay right in town where you could grab one #f it so much as poked its nose out of the ground.
Tell me what it's been like." "THEY talked. It was like old times, and Cherry felt tears behind her lashes as she realized how hungry she had been for the sound of her mother's voice. But I'm not going to give in, she told herself fiercely. ''m not going to be soft, ever again! She could hardly bear to hang up the receiver. Hal was already stretched out in bed. "T'm dead tired," he groaned, "I didn't get any Junch—used my lunch hour to go with Jim Stanton to look at a place he passed on his way to work—folks were moving out then. But someone else had moved in by the time we got there." He yawned. HOME IS WHERE YOU MAKE IT Cherry didn't even get a nibble the next day, either, but on the third day she met Anne Gillespie who lived in an apartment hotel high on the bench east of town. When Anne heard of Cherry's plight, she spoke enthusiastically, "Listen, Cherry, Mrs. Saunders, an old lady in the apartment above me, has a room. Her son and daughter-in-law have been with her, but he has been sent East. She's been hanging onto that extra room for dear life. [ll bet you and Hal could get it." "Take me to her!" cried Cherry, and she almost pushed Anne toward the car. | Mrs.
Saunders was a very charming lady, and she seemed definitely ready to let them have the extra room. But she hesitated. "There's just one thing," she said gently. "I do not sleep well, and I will have to require that you be in early, and that you make no disturbance at all after I go to bed."
Cherry swallowed hard.
Then she said, as pleasantly as she could, "Well, of course, Mrs. Saunders, I realize that you would be doing us a great favor, indeed, taking us in, and we'd both try to do everything possible to be unobtrusive and no trouble, but I'd like to talk to my husband before settling the matter.
Will it be all right if I phone you this evening?" She was discouraged, telling Hal about it. "It would be terrible,' she moaned. "She looks so gentle, but you could see she has a will of iron. She's a tyrant, if ever there was one. Oh, Hall!" "We don't want her old room," Hal said. "Listen, honey! I've heard of a duplex." 667 "What are we waiting for?" cried Cherry. The desk clerk stopped their mad rush. "Mr. Meldrum," he said, courteously, "you realize, I suppose, that tomorrow your four days are up?"
Cherry stared, openmouthed. "What do you mean?" she gasped. "Mr.
Meldrum only took the room for four days, and it has already been reserved for another guest. He will be in tomorrow. The room is to be vacated by two o'clock."
Cherry thought she had never been so angry in her life. She switched along, seething. When Hal caught up with her, she said resentfully, "I never heard of such insolence. Hal, what is the world coming to?" Hal answered miserably, "I should have told you, but I thought we'd get a place by now.
Maybe we will," he added, hopefully. The duplex was still vacant.
They rang the bell of the owner, who lived in one side. "It's all been newly decorated, and fixed up," the owner bragged, turning on the light.
Cherry gasped in delight. It was lovely. "Of course," the landlord went on, "we've always kept it nice, and were very careful about our tenants. No shenanigans, you understand, no parties or noise, no dogs or children."
Cherry stared at him.
Should she keep silent, tacitly deny the wonderful thing that had happened to her and Hal? Never. "We're going to have a baby," she said distinctly, "but of course, you (Continued on page 694)