Then he cooked his frugal supper, made appetizing by the WALT'S LUCK 495 day's hard drive and his own healthy youth. It was dusk now and he fancied once, twice, perhaps that the hooting of owls was just a trifle too frequent, but it seemed so natural and appropriate in this tree-clad hollow with the hills hiding the mountains by their nearness, that he could not be sure. Just once he saw something suspicious out of the corner of his eye. A stump seemed to melt into the tree beside it, as though an Indian had been playing stump and had quietly slipped behind the big tree. The dimness of the light and the flicker of his own cheerful camp fire made Walt uncertain, though a cold drop of water seemed to trickle/up and down his spine, defying the law of gravitation in obeying the law of premonition. His hair prickled, too. He did not whistle after that. But he finished his supper to the last bite, washed his simple dishes, saw that his team were all right and then came back to the fire. It was flaming quite brightly still, and he knew that as the darkness closed about his camp he was by its light revealed more and more clearly to any lurking observers who might covet his team, his freight, or his scalp. That was why he was so careful to keep every motion steady and even the expression of his face calm. If keen and hostile eyes were observing him, he wanted them to get no idea that he was afraid. For the one who was afraid was doomed, if he let his fear be known.: It promised to be quite a warm night, but he took all the bedding he had used on the trip out to keep comfortable in the cold air of the higher mountains, and carried it to a spot near the fire. There he fussed for a long time getting it ready and then sat quietly by the fire until the flames had died and the coals gave out only a faint, soft glow. At last, when he thought sufficient of the slowly dragging minutes had passed without anything happening, he threw some fresh wood upon the fire and moved to his bed. While he had been making it, he had rolled his gun inside a blanket, feeling secure so long as the Indians knew he was awake, and laid it by the bed. Now, before his fresh fuel had time to catch fire, he lay prone beside his bed, rolled one of the quilts into a long bundle under the top cover, to simulate a human form, and grasping gun and blanket, slowly and silently worked his way, snakelike, toward his wagon. Under it he passed, but did not pause, until it was between him and the glow from the fire. Then, he rose to hands and knees and went on cautiously till he reached the nearest thick bush. There with the bush between himself and the fire he paused to look back. The fresh fuel was beginning to blaze. It showed the bed nearby, with an irregular hump down the middle suggesting the recumbent form of a man. A little farther off the wagon showed  less distinctly, and in the quiet he could hear the peaceful munching of the team. Thus far his plan seemed to have worked well. He was positive that his maneuvers in going to bed, throwing fuel on the fire, and sneaking away before it had time to blaze had been successful in getting him thus far without being observed. He thought from his knowledge of Indians that they would not attack until he had been in bed at least an hour, but his chief difficulty lay ahead. For he had not the slightest knowledge as to where the Indians would be. They might be grouped all together in any direction. They might be all asleep save one who would be watching. Or they might be scattered and creeping slowly upon the camp where he supposedly lay just dropping into the first sound sleep of youth and weariness. Wherever they were, he was as liable to come upon one or ail of them as to miss them. So now he hesitated and tried to guess in which direction they would least likely be. But the uncertainties of the situation were so great that at last he gave up trying to decide and guessed that the next move in the affair must depend upon what his friends called "Walt's Luck." If it were "luck" that had guided him thus far in his adventurous life, he at least carried no symbols of it. No rabbit's foot or swastika or other emblem of "luck" was ever found in his pockets. Instead, now, when his life hung upon the chance of which direction he crept during the next few minutes, he merely bowed his head once more and thought a prayer. Then. He selected a bush a good way up one of the hills that partially surrounded the spring and softly worked his way toward it. Reaching it at last, he breathed another prayer, this time of thankfulness for his having chanced upon no prowling Indian on the way, and throwing the blanket about his shoulders and grasping his gun, he waited?and waited?and waited. The young moon had set before he left the camp fire. The stars were growing brighter. For a long time no movement or sound came to him from his camp. Even the horses ceased their munching, and the blaze from the fire, though still casting a slight glow upon objects about it, had almost died away. The little spring did not give enough water to ripple, and the leaves of the | trees hung motionless in the unstirring air, as though they shared Walt's suspense. He dozed once, and quickly roused himself with a vigorous shake of the head and a few silent deeply drawn breaths. Was he to slumber peacefully here while the Indians robbed his wagon of its precious cargo and drove off his team? His bitter anger with himself for the momentary lapse roused him to alertness. Again time passed, and at last he became aware of a skulking WALT'S LUCK 497 form beyond the vague glow of his camp fire. He stared at it intently. It moved. An Indian! "I thought so!" he whispered to himself as though he had been hoping that Indians were about. At least it proved that his suspicions and precautions were not entirely unnecessary and foolish. Now Walt could distinguish the upraised tomahawk beyond the fire's dim glow as the Indian crept toward the still form in the bed. He was torn between a shudder of horror and a strong desire to laugh aloud. He discerned another Indian not far behind the first and then another. Then the tomahawk was raised higher and descended where Walt's head appeared to be. At the signal a horde of voices let out the triumphant war cry and a group of tall forms leaped erect about the fire and the bed. Instantly silence descended. One of the Indians had thrown some wood upon the fire as he yelled, and in the strange quiet the one who had wielded the tomahawk tore the bed apart as the little flames began licking upward. The silence was broken by a word of command from the leader and several ran hastily to the wagon and looked under it, and in it. Walt could not suppress a slight chuckle as their postures revealed to him by the increasing glow of the fire the bewildered amazement his ruse stirred in their hearts, and the alarm which was steadily growing into terror as they failed to find their prey and realized that it was hidden somewhere about and might at any moment fire upon them. He sobered instantly at the thought of what would happen to him if they forced him to reveal his position by firing, then smiled again, remembering his emotions during the evening as he had felt their eyes upon him and could not see them, and knowing just how their spines must be creeping now in the knowledge that any one of them might be the victim of his first shot. They knew he had the drop on them. But he knew that would avail very little if he fired, for he counted cleven of them as they passed between him and the blaze and could not possibly kill them all before some of them found him. And if he shot just one, the rest would then be botund to seek revenge. He told himself grimly that "Brother Brigham" was certainly right when he taught that it was "cheaper to feed the Indians than to fight them," but he was still resolved not to let them rob him without offering any resistance. He saw one of them suggest that they scatter and search for him. Others refused. Their quick nervous glances into the darkness grew increasingly fearful and they drew closer together and farther from the fire. Another urged that they take the horses, another that they filch what they chose from the wagon.  Then one who seemed to be the leader held up his hand for attention, uttered a few brief commands, pointed to the one who had suggested robbing the wagon and pantomimed his doing it and falling back dead from an unseen bullet. They were all impressed and silent at that. Then a terse command came from his lips and they accepted it. So vivid was the pantomime that Walt understood the arguments as though he had heard every word in his own tongue. Suddenly the Indians melted into the darkness empty-handed. And Walt told himself that if he understood Indian nature, he had by his trick won their respect and admiration and was safe from them for the rest of the night and the next day, though he should meet them face to face. He had made them afraid and the Indian did not as a rule rob or murder the man who had made him afraid. Still, he did not go back to his camp nor allow himself to take more than brief snatches of sleep until the morning star had faded. Then he investigated. The quilt he had rolled and the one spread over it were both torn by the sharp blade of the tomahawk but otherwise nothing was injured. He cared for his team, ate a hasty breakfast, and sleepy, but triumphant and deeply grateful, he drove on and overtook Pete and Dick just before nightfall. That night Walt slept so long and so soundly that Hansen laughingly declared a squaw could have scalped him and he'd never have known it.