He felt, too, that in spite of his six feet and strong muscles, he was very much a lonely boy. He wished that he dared push his team hard enough to cover the miles still between him and his friends ahead, but he knew that the last two days he had kept them to a pace that now demanded rest. Besides, if Indians were near, he would be no safer driving over the rough road in the dark than he would be in his lonely camp. Grimly he urged the weary team toward the spring. Warily he kept his! Face ahead and his eyes turning, turning, seeking something tangible on which to base his fears. If he were sure that Indians were about, he thought he would feel better. A real danger was easier to meet than an imaginary one. Why should he worry about the Indians, anyhow? He asked himself this question and answered that they had never hurt him, that this was a part of Nevada in which they seldom made trouble, and that his load of freight, so valuable to white men, was not what Indians prized. Then he chuckled to himself, "They might not want the gold, but I've got enough hair for two good scalps, and a mighty fine team of horses, and a good wagon and camp outfit. Besides, I'm notiso sure they wouldn't want the gold if they knew about it. For most Indians have had dealings enough with whites to know  that it will buy anything a white man has. And I've got a good gun.". He patted it with one hand as it lay on the seat beside him, and for a moment it gave him a sense of security. Then he thought again, "Yes, a gun they'd each like to own, but it wouldn't save my scalp because while I got one with it an Indian that already has a gun would get me with him, or one would with an arrow. Well, I guess my famous luck will hold. It has before." Three days before, as he and Jim had blithely started out together with their valuable loads of freight, Jim's younger horse shied at a blown piece of paper just enough to throw one front wheel into a deep rut that Walt had carefully avoided and a loud crack of splintering hardwood had reached Walt's ears. He promtly stopped and came back to help Jim appraise the damage. It didn't look so bad at first, and they had worked cheerfully reinforcing the splintered spoke; so they thought it would carry the load through this time. But after only an hour of driving the same wheel had struck a rock hidden in the deep dust at the bottom of a rut, and two more spokes had given away. Again Walt came back to his companion and they stood silently staring at the wheel. Walt thought that if Jim hadn't been counselor to the bishop at home, Jim might have said a plenty. His face went white at first, and then it turned so red it was almost purple. Finally he expelled a great sigh, which must have compensated in part for the swearing he had held in, and remarked, "No telling how long it will take to get a decent job done on that. Maybe a week back in that town.": "That blacksmith you talked with yesterday said he didn't have any new wheels on hand, didn't he?" Walt asked. "Yeh. Too much freighting over these roads with heavy loads of gold and supplies. It's hard on wheels. Guess I'll unhitch and ride one of the horses in and see if I can't borrow a good wheel or a whole wagon till I can get my load in a safe place. Might as well make the best of it.. Darn the luck!" Walt grinned at the mild "cuss" and then looked thoughtful on his own account. "Brace up my axle; I'll let you use my wheel to go in with if you say so, Jim." Jim looked speculatively at him, as though estimating his size and courage. Then he asked, "Going to wait for me to get fixed up?" "Well, I dunno," Walt replied, '""Hansen and Thurber didn't get started till late yesterday afternoon and my team's better than either! One of theirs. I might catch them; let's see, about day after tomorrow, I guess." WALT'S LUCK 493 "Think you could? Be pretty hard on the team. You've got a good load and the roads are tough." Briefly then they discussed the chances, where the other two would probably have camped last night, how far they would get today, and where Walt would have to camp in order to gain enough each day to overtake them so soon. Finally they mentioned Indians and Jim shook his head. "Don't believe you'd better tackle it alone, Walt. Your folks sort of look to me to help you along, and if I let you go off alone this way and anything was to happen, they couldn't help thinking it was partly my fault." "But Jim, we're both nearly strapped for money and got just food enough for the trip. And everything costs like the dickens in these mining towns. I could let you have a little extra to last you over if I go now; but if we both stayed on, things wouldn't look so good." "That's true, too; but I hate to think of the country you'd be driving through tomorrow and you having to camp alone there. Indians would be sure to get you." Walt laughed confidently. "Well, I've never had much trouble keeping just one jump ahead of any Indian I ever met so far. I'm lucky that way, you know." "Yes, I know you've got more brains than most, but Injuns is Injuns, anyhow. And what if something happened to your wagon or horses, so you didn't catch up with 'em as soon as we've figured? Every day would take you further into Indian country?alone." "My. Wagon's practically new and my team's in the best condition. I think I'd better try it. The Indians haven't been bad lately, so I guess I could go all the way alone safe enough. I'll tell the folks you tried to make me stay and couldn't, if anything should happen." Jim knew that when Walt made up his mind he was hard to change, and he knew also that the boy had never failed yet to meet any emergency that had come in his varied experiences, From Salt Lake to the Muddy and freighting both East and West, in peace or Indian trouble, Walt had won a reputation for being cool headed in time of danger, though he was not one to seek it out. With Indians or with whites, from the days when he herded sheep barefooted on the hills, he had never been known to pick a fight or to stop fighting if the other fellow started. It, until that other acknowledged defeat. He had lived few years, but they had been full ones, and he had already proved himself a man in action as well as in inches. ? Jim thought of all this and argued no more, but refused Walt's offer of a wheel so that he might lose no more time. The boy insisted upon dividing his little store of wages with Jim, and  drove merrily off, whistling, as Jim unhitched his team and started back to the town. By sunset yesterday Walt had made the distance they had figured he would need,. And slept comfortably in a deserted prospector's cabin. Today, too,-he had gauged his distance and. His team's strength accurately, and now he approached the second campsite of their plan. It was three hours since he had stopped to examine a camping place which showed fresh signs, and had found in several places the print of a wider horseshoe than the average, and knew it for the off hind foot of Hansen's bay. He found, too, a few tiny heaps of tobacco ashes, which he was sure came from Thurber's pipe; for Thurber, as he said, had been born in the South with a pipe in his mouth instead of a silver spoon. Knowing that he had gained so much on them reassured Walt that he would have no trouble in overtaking them tomorrow if he started a! Little earlier and drove a little faster than he knew they would. Yet, in less than an hour after he had passed their camping place of the night before, this eery depression had settled upon him, and he could not but believe that he was being followed by Indians. As he called "Whoa" to his team and took a long careful look about, Jim's parting injunction seemed to ring again in his ears. It had been said in a tone of banter, but Walt and tJim both recognized the seriousness beneath the tone. "Better remember your prayers, Walt." Walt stopped as he was about to jump from his wagon and bowed his head a moment. Lifting it again, he shook it, as though to rid himself of his fears, and with a smile and a friendly slap upon his horse's rump, started whistling again as he had not done the last two hours. If Indians were about he would try hard to take care of himself. If 'they were not, he need not make himself miserable by worrying about them.: Cheerfully, then, but with his eyes ever alert for a stump that moved, or listening for an animal cry that didn't fit the locality or the time of evening, or that sounded unnatural or was answered too promptly, Walt made his simple camp. Carefully and almost tenderly, he cared for his team, saw that they did not drink too much, let them eat grain while he gathered an extra large supply of firewood and made his fire, then led them once more to the spring. Instead of hobbling them and turning them loose tonight, he staked them. But he took particular pains to keep his cheerful whistling going and to move with leisurely confidence as though he had not the slightest suspicion of enemies.