This may make necessary on occasion firm commands to abstain from this. Variety of torture. When children do not get on well DEVELOPING THE MORAL JUDGMENT 481 together there can be at least some degree of separation. They may be given separate, individual work to do until they can learn the value of harmonious, agreeable cooperation. The punishment of requiring them to play separately, in case other companions are not available, may be sufficient to stimulate a wholesome effort to be agreeable. Throughout it must be remembered that such measures should be only temporary means of keeping the peace, and that children must learn ultimately to work and to play together in the spirit of friendly cooperation. The Basis for Thrift Instruction Another phase of character for which the home is primarily responsible is that of thrift. This too calls for development of the moral judgment in connection with training in right habits. The practical training is, of course, at the foundation, and is essential to the development of real meaningful judgments concerning the nature and the value of thrift. It involves honest earning, reasonable savings properly secured, and wise spending. Laws prohibiting child labor are enacted to prevent any person or corporation from using a child as a means to some other end than that of his own greatest good. This is a legal application to children of Kant's principle: "Treat every person as an end in himself, never as a means." The child labor laws are, however, not to be understood as meaning that all kinds of labor are bad for children. Children must learn to work much as they learn other things. By this means the child acquires habits of industry and individual responsibility. He may learn very early to be responsible for easy tasks; to begin with, for instance, the care of his own clothing as he changes morning and evening. To have a place for his clothing, and of course, for his toys or other property, and to put things in their proper places, is a foundation habit in thrift, since it tends to conserve these things and, more important, still, it conserves time, often the time of others as well as his own. The reason for this type of thrift may well be brought to his attention before he enters the elementary school. When this training has been well done in the home, and the habit has been somewhat generalized through thoughtful attention to the reasons therefor, the teacher of beginners will have occasion to be thankful. Many such teachers have to assume responsibility for training that rightfully belongs to parents. The delinquencies of the home in this respect are sometimes so far reaching as to put a damper upon the otherwise unsullied joys of a honeymoon,  when the slovenly habits of one of the newly wedded pair may first become known to the other. Thrift Developed by Industry The care of clothing and toys is, however, only the beginning of thrift. The child should early learn something of cooperative activities and responsibilities through training in doing his part, a part appropriate to his age and strength, in carrying on the business of the household. Training in habits of work and responsibility is best secured by definite assignment of regular tasks and making it impossible for the individual to shirk the task assigned him. This training in work habits should be supplemented with insight into the necessity of work and the justice of each individual's doing his part. This is generally made easier if work is used as a means of training in all phases of thrift, including saving and wise spending. It is much better for the child that he shall earn his own pocket money than that he should have it handed him outright or that he should beg it, as many children do. A child, may be instructed early in the most profitable methods of saving as well as of spending. This practical economics as applied to the individual may be taught in the home and the foundation laid for reasonable and honest expenditures in adult life. The all too prevalent tendency of Americans to spend beyond their incomes or on such a close margin as to make no provision for living through nonemployment and sickness periods may be due in some measure, at least, to want of proper early training in thrift habits and instruction in the principles of thrift. Knowledge of Principle Essential It is the purpose in citing these typical cases of moral training to call attention to the fact that while training in moral habits is basic and essential in all phases of moral education, this alone is insufficient. If desirable habits are to carry over into adult life and if the individual is to adjust successfully to new situations, he must have insight into the moral principles upon which his habits rest or ought to rest. He should have practice also in reaching conclusions of his own as to the rightness or wrongness of any proposed action. Mere habit is often wholly inadequate to cope with new or complex situations. In this respect ethics is not unlike other practical sciences. In the various applications of physical science to practical affairs knowledge of fundamental underlying principles is essential. A mechanically trained person may easily learn to operate a complex machine so long as it runs in routine fashion, but if anything goes wrong or DEVELOPING THE MORAL JUDGMENT 483 new conditions arise requiring new adjustments of machinery, there is call for the services of one who understands the principles upon which the machinery works. Life is full of new, complex, and difficult situations. It is fundamental in moral character that the individual shall make his own moral decisions. He may advise with others concerning his moral problems, he cannot, however, delegate his moral responsibility. Should he not, therefore, be trained systematically and thoroughly to exercise his moral judgment and thereby be enabled to decide upon the right course of action, when such decisions are called for? Morals a Part of Religion A system of morals is rightly a part of every great religion. Every system of morals taught as a phase of religion, however, should have the added support of reason and experience. No devotee of a system of religion should hesitate to apply this test to moral precepts taught him dogmatically. Authority in morals should not be at variance with reason and experience. It often happens, however, that one who has been brought up on dogmatic religion, including morals, comes to be a doubter of the religious dogmas he has been taught; and, having no other basis for his system of moral precepts than association with religious dogma, his disposition is to set aside his moral precepts also. Thus many individuals have gone on the rocks morally when they might have been saved from this fate by early instruction in the rational basis of conduct. Recompense Life is a path of ups and downs? Now the sun shines, now it frowns; Yet from that low descending cloud, Black and hanging like a shroud, Falls the cool refreshing rain On the dry and thirsty plain; And from out the soul's deep night God's path is seen with keener sight.