DR. KATHARINE BLUNT New President of Connecticut College for Women  Sketch of Life of Dr. Katharine Blunt Dr. Katharine Blunt, who will assume her duties as President of Connecticut College, New London, was born in Philadelphia on May 28, 1876, of Massachusetts and New York parents. Her father, a West Point graduate, Colonel of Ordnance, U. S. Army, retired, was living in Springfield, Massachusetts, at the time of his death. Her mother lives in Springfield, Massachusetts. She has had both an extensive and varied educational experience covering a period of a quarter of a century. In her preparation for the responsible positions she has held, she attended schools in Washington, D. C., and in Springfield, Massachusetts (Miss Porter's School, 1889-94). In 1898 she took her baccalaureate degree from Vassar College, and later on did graduate work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1907 she received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Chicago, her major being chemistry. Then began her professional career. Her first teaching was done in Vassar College where, as an assistant instructor in chemistry, she worked from 1903-05. In the interim she did work in Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, returning again to Vassar from 1908 to 1913. Then came her appointment on the faculty of the University of Chicago, where she made rapid progress, serving in the capacity of assistant professor, associate professor and finally professor of home economics. From 1918 to 1925 she was chairman of the Department of Home Economics informally, when the department was part of the School of Education, and formally from 1925 to the present, with the Department on a regular basis in the Graduate Schools and Colleges of Arts, Literature, and Science.. Miss Blunt did war service in Washington from September, 1917, to June, 1918, with the U. S. Department of Agriculture and the U. S. Food Administration, writing (with others) U. S. Food Leaflets and a Course in Food Conservation for Colleges,  afterward published in book form by Houghton-Mifflin Company as Food and the War. She is now finishing a book, in collaboration with Miss Ruth Cowan, the exact title of which is not settled, on vitamin D and ultraviolet light, a new chapter in nutrition, which is to be published shortly by the University of Chicago Press. She has written a number of articles published in the Journal of Home Economics and the Journal of Biological Chemistry on general home economics or nutrition subjects. Dr. Blunt is the editor of the University of Chicago Home Economics Series. She has been active for a number of years in the American Home Economics Association, for three years as vice president, for two as president, and now as a member of the Council. She is also a member of several other professional societies, of the Chicago College Club, the Prairie Club, etc. The following extracts from an article published in July in the Boston Globe are of interest: "Fligher education for women means healthier babies and a physical improvement of the race. "This is the opinion of Dr. Katharine Blunt, scientist, teacher and college administrator, who will drop her work at the University of Chicago this summer and join the distinguished group of New England college presidents. "The training of women, she believes, brings an immediate reaction in the next generation. "The newly-appointed president of the not very old Connecticut College for Women obviously likes her job and has faith in the capacity of her sex to make large contributions to civilization. ""Of course,' she said, 'the modern mother knows more about bringing up children, about properly feeding, dressing and training them than her mother knew. ""There has been a tremendous development in the whole subject of nutrition. It has had its origin in the scientific laboratory, and has been widely applied. Not only highly trained mothers, but mothers with less training realize the benefit of this increased knowledge. "*The president of a college for women must believe in a woman's ability to take part in a great variety of occupations. She must believe in woman's capacity for intellectual progress. She must have faith in woman's fitness for scholarship and for positions of influence in society. "These are articles in my creed. I believe woman is capable of applying what she acquires in a college training in the home, in the arts, in civic life. The richer lives women lead, the better it will be for our civilization.'