Harvest Moon By Virgina C. Jordan O big, white, harvest moon, Hung in the pink, mauve sky, Over the uneven purple hills With fleece clouds floating by? Why wait so serenely there In the sunset's evening glow? Do you wait for the greater light to pass, That your own silvery beams may show? Ah listen, methinks I hear you say To the foolish one: "Not so; I am placed here by a Mighty Power, And His will is the only law I know." Notes from the Field Lyman Stake. In the July issue of the Relief Society Magazine, under Notes from the Field, a most interesting account of a flower show, and other enterprises showing fine public spirit, appeared under the head of Woodruff Stake. This should have been reported from Lyman Stake. These two stakes are closely associated, and are both to be congratulated upon the fine spirit of the work they do. It is always regrettable when an error in the report is made, and we are most anxious to call attention to this one and to give to every stake the credit and recognition due for its fine achievements. In addition to the flower show and the other enterprises recorded, there was also, in the Lyman Stake exhibit a fine display of what Relief Society women may accomplish during the hours of their Work and Business Meeting. Accounts of all Relief Society activities are most welcome, and are given attention in the office as nearly as possible in the order in which they are received. IN MEMORIAM During the past year, in many of the Latter-day Saint communities, the passing of some of our older and best beloved Relief Society sisters is noted. In reading the accounts of the lives of these wonderful women, we find an explanation of why the Latter-day Saints as a people have been so successful as colonizers and community builders. The companionship and helpfulness such as these women display make it impossible for men not to succeed. One of the great political thinkers of this age has said if we would know the political and moral condition of a state, we must ask what rank women hold in it. Their influence embraces the whole of life. Of the three noble sisters whom we shall mention, we feel that we could say they have what Shakespeare said should attend old age?"honor, love, obedience, and troops of friends." Annie Heiselt Otteson was born in Pleasant Grove, Utah, April 15, 1861. The state was still in its pioneer days, but Annie availed herself of the opportunities given to attend school in her home town. She was married December 28, 1877, to James Otteson. About three years later, in response to a call made by the leaders of the Church, she, with her husband and parents, left their Utah home and went to Colorado to assist in colonizing the San Luis valley. At this time Sister Otteson had a baby  only ten days old, and the journey from Pleasant Grove to San Luis took six weeks. In entering the new field of pioneer life there were great responsibilities, serious problems, often so grave as to be almost a matter of life and death, but this brave sister, true to the spirit of her people, faced these conditions with a determination to adjust to anything that might arise, and make the best of every situation. Many of her early ambitions had to be sacrificed because of the times, and the environment in which her life was cast. Sister Otteson was for many years a most active worker in the Relief Society organization. True to the spirit of that work, she was ever present in the home where sorrow entered, and ever ready to give the comfort and assistance required. One of the Bishops said of her, "She is a ministering angel, her presence always where it is most needed, and what she is doing on earth is but a beginning of her work in the hereafter." While her children were still young her husband accepted a call to fulfil a mission in Europe. From this experience he returned an invalid, never to regain his health. In August, 1896, Sister Otteson was left a widow. Her faith in God's goodness was unshaken, and she patiently assumed the double responsibility which had come to her. Her children, as well as the people of her community, will remember her as one who ministered among the sick, and helped many sufferers to find relief. During the latter years of her life she did not enjoy good health, and a very beautiful testimony of what her earlier life must have been, especially with her children, was found in the way she was regarded by them. Her sons and her daughters felt it the greatest privilege to minister to her during the last years of her life. The close of her life came in the place she had colonized and helped to build. Beautiful and impressive funeral services were held in the Sanford ward of the San Luis Stake, on July 25, 1928. Elizabeth Susan Brunt: Nearly forty years in Relief Society work is the line which challenges the eye in the little sketch sent into the office in reference to Sister Brunt. She was born on April 30, 1854, in London. When six years of age her family moved to an English colony in New Zealand, where Elizabeth was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, at the age of eight years. In 1870 she was married to George Brunt. About ten years later, she,-in company with her four small children, preceded her husband to the United States, and she settled in Farmington, Utah. Some years later her husband joined her and the family moved to Eagle Rock, Idaho, now known as Idaho Falls. Mr. Brunt died a year later. The double responsibility of widowhood and motherhood now rested upon Sister Brunt.