[Vol46 | March 1959 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: "Now, Let Us Rejoice"| Author: [Editorial - author not explicitly named in visible text]]
"Now, Let Us Rejoice"

"For the traditions of the people shall become a legacy which they shall evaluate with rejoicing. . . ."

ONE hundred and seventeen years have passed into the annals of time since the organization of Relief Society, March 17, 1842. More than a century has gone, and we come to another time of special evaluation of our heritage as members of Relief Society. It is a time for us to contemplate, with historic perspective, our traditions, our beliefs, the practices and principles which have guided the lives of our mothers in the generations past, which are now our daily pattern, and which will be the legacy of our daughters.

The gospel came to the women of the early Church as a cause for great rejoicing. From a profound and earnest searching, a glorious fulfillment had come. The generations of the past, the wide and wonderful vistas of their own day, and all the frontiers of the future reaching into the eternities, for them were linked together in the great sunlight of the restoration. Even hardships became opportunities, and the women felt a desire to enrich their individual potentialities and to unite with their sisters that their hands might be strengthened, their spirits uplifted, and their services multiplied.

This rejoicing in the gospel became the luminous horizon for the divinely directed pathway of women.

The sisters of Nauvoo saw the boats ruffling the waves of the wide river, as families arrived day after day to unite with the Church, and the women who were first in the "City of Joseph" considered the needs of the newcomers as "a loud call for relief"—not for the providing of food and housing alone, but for spiritual enlightenment and for kindness and comfort in an alien place.

Long before the formal organization of Relief Society, the women had hoped for a pattern and a design to guide them. When the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key and gave direction to their efforts, the women rejoiced, for they knew that the blessings of the Lord would be with them in their ministrations.

Thus, the restoration of the gospel and the organization of Relief Society by the Prophet became the first great traditions of the Society, and a beacon light for times to come when membership would be multiplied, when responsibilities would be diverse and far-reaching.

In accordance with instructions, so well expressed by the Prophet, and "in harmony with their natures," the women looked first to the needs of their households, the honoring of their husbands, the rearing of their children, and the tasks of making their homes orderly and beautiful, employing with energy all they possessed of time and talents.

Then afterward they reached out,