[Vol46 | March 1959 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Driggs]
[The Second Mile Effie K. Driggs]

Their love about me like an accolade, I walk to meet the night all unafraid. Page 178 Rachel Goes to Relief Society Elizabeth C. McCrimmon 669 DON'T see how I can go to [I Relief Society meeting today!" fretted Rachel Johnson when she awoke that snowy morning in late winter. She thought of the two-and-a-half-mile drive to the meetinghouse and all the things she had to do at home. As the only woman on a large ranch southwest of Salt Lake City, she had too much work to do. So, in the morning, she would plan the day's program, seizing on the most pressing things, deciding what she could let go. A good housekeeper, she claimed, knew what to leave undone. Today, besides the regular chores of feeding poultry and washing the separator, she ought to mop the kitchen linoleum, make cabbage relish, bake bread, and iron, if any of the clothes thawed out enough to be ironed. Right now the frozen underwear flapped on the line like a row of hanging men. Besides, she ought to roast the chicken she had dressed the day before. On the other hand, the Relief Society needed her. The members of Vista Ward, on the salt flats, were mostly foreign-born women, German and Scandinavian. As an educated American woman, Rachel had been the unanimous choice for secretary. When she thought of her assistant, Anna Weiss, she realized it would be difficult for the Swiss woman to write the minutes in English. I guess I'd better go, she decided as she jumped out of bed and donned her clothes. The fire was already going in the kitchen range. Nice of Port to start it before he went out. The world looked cold and gray through the windows. After the breakfast dishes were washed, Rachel kneaded the dough into loaves and left them to rise while she stuffed the chicken. She made the dressing with stale bread crumbs, chopped onion, and celery, with a dash of summer savory and sage. 'The chicken and the bread would both be ready for the noontime dinner, which on the farm, was the main meal of the day. I'm glad I fixed the chicken. Farm folks get mighty sick of salt pork by the end of the winter, she thought, as she built up the fire and slipped the bread and chicken into the oven. The room was filled with fragrant odors when Port came in and washed up for his lunch.