[Vol46 | March 1959 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Announcing | Author: Issue]
Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue The April 1959 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "The Day I 'Turned Eight," by Ilene H. Kingsbury "Unto the Hills," by Helen Hooper "Great-Grandmother's Notebook," by Arlene D. Cloward "The Bishop's Wife," by Sylvia Probst Young A Sireside Chat On a (Burning Question Freedom and Discipline blessed security of direction in our choice of life patterns may be gained from a serious contemplation of our heritage as daughters of Zion. 'This legacy of physical and spiritual wealth, wide and challenging in its implications, is still a pattern of restraint and discipline. A woman pioneer to the mountain valleys once remarked, "The fireside and the flame seem always to make a design of my life." She recounted the memory of bright flames leaping above a campfire in the snows of Winter Quarters, and, later, the flare of evening fires along the lonely reaches of the Platte. Her first evening in the wide valley beneath the Wasatch Mountains was warmed by a fire that blazed beside her wagon. 'The fire in her first stove in her first cabin was the heart of the home. And when she was finally settled in an even more distant place, the big, bulging stove in the meetinghouse became the center of her time of worship. Always the flame and the fire were beautiful to her, but always their use required control and constant watchfulness. Our life patterns give us freedom or bondage, according to the value or the detriment which inevitably accompanies each established habit. We need to stand in our own tall strength, and then to have a reserve of energy and enthusiasm for offering to those who need us. It follows, then, that we must eliminate from our lives those habits already acquired which detract from our strength, and we must be ever watchful that no beginning is made on habits which cause us to light a cigarette, "playing with fire" which may lead us into bondage rather than to freedom. It is often necessary to be subject to discipline, if we are to achieve freedom. When we control our habits we have power; when they control us we are weak. It has been well said that there is no infirmity of body or mind that cannot be helped by seeking the truth, and by reliance upon the ever-available help of our Heavenly Father. The light and beauty of the hearth of home, and the heritage of discipline and freedom, are ours to give direction and purpose to our lives — to help us make the most of our brief years upon the earth. Page 175 Recipes From the Central States Tllission Submitted by May E. J. Dyer LEMON CrumMB CRUNCH Step 1— '% c. Sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 2 tbsp. Flour ¥ c. Lemon juice ¥% tsp. Salt 1% tsp. Grated lemon rind 1 c. Hot water 5 Combine sugar, flour, and salt, then add water and mix well. Cook over hot water until thick, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and add egg mixture; return to stove and cook 2 minutes over hot water, stirrmg constantly. Next add lemon juice and rind and continue cooking about 1 minute. Remove from stove and cool. Pour over layers of crumb crunch. Step 2— Crums CRruNcH ¥% c. Shortening % tsp. Salt 1 c. Brown sugar 1 c. Wheat cereal flakes 1 c. Flour % c. Coconut Mix shortening and brown sugar. Add flour, salt, cereal flakes, and coconut. Place #4 of crumb mixture in greased 8-inch square pan, pour filling on top of it, then place remaining 4% of crumb mixture on top. Bake at 350° for 40 minutes. Serves 9. Serve hot or cold with whipped cream or ice cream. BoiLep RaIsIn CAKE Jennie Jewkes First Mixture— 1 Ib. Raisins 1 c. Shortening (scant) 2% c. Water Boil for 10 minutes slowly, and cool. Second Mixture— i¥ c. Sugar 2 tsp. Cinnamon "2 ¢. Sifted flour 1 tsp. Nutmeg 1 tsp. Soda (rounded spoon) 7 tsp. Ginger Add this to first mixture when cool. Bake at 350°. 'Time: 1 hour; Pans: 2 greased loaf pans. Ricoh BROWNIES Margaretha Evans 2 eggs 1 C. Pecans 1 Cc. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla % Ib. Butter 2 squares bitter chocolate (melted) 1 c. Flour Page 1/6 She American llational Red Cross and Lts Field of Service O. C. Duckett Director, Public Information 6 [N this world where we must continually combat materialistic, godless, and selfish forces, it is not only our military strength but also our spiritual heritage of selfless devotion to meeting the needs of our troubled fellow man that is going to keep us from coming out second best in the fast, tough league in which we are playing." That was the declaration of General Alfred M.