[Vol46 | March 1959 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
[The Central States Mission Preston R. Nibley]

May we as leaders in that organization not leave a stone unturned to see that the blessings and influence of Relief Society are carried into the lives of every mother and homemaker in our wards and branches. May we truly do as Sister Smith said, "cherish one another, watch over one another, comfort one another and gain instruction" together, I pray humbly in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Our Chapel — She Grove Joyce Wahlburn Durban, South Africa The gates swing wide at a touch, To open on the forepath—an emerald sea, And mirrored in its depths, by light of moon, The stately palms—graceful in their watchful majesty Keep guard over the house of God— Haven of peace and calm serenity. Squarely it stands, wrapped about in its mantle of green, Bordered by hedge-row embossed with trailing bloom And trailing evergreen. Embraced by the night-shadows, and psalmed by the night-sounds Of myriad tiny creeping things. Within his house, the Father waits—a kindly host to all Who enter in, with faith and love. Hush! Hear now—he calls to you—your place is set. Step within these portals—no longer roam, Behold the unseen hand of love held out, And feel the smile of welcome, As the Father bids thee stay, for here is home! Shird Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The House on Cherry Lane Drive Sarah O. Moss SARAH O. MOSS VALYN had arrived for her visit at the home of her daughter and son-in-law, Maida and Charles Spence. She stood at the ironing board, pressing a scarf, while her daughter sat at the table, sipping her orange juice in the crowded little kitchen. 'The two small children had gone out to play. "Sure you can manage by yourself, Mother?" asked Maida. "I could drive you around and perhaps save your strength, if you have to do too much walking." 'Don't worry about me, dear," answered Evalyn hastily. "I'll just catch a bus up here at the corner, Page 150 and go right to the bank. From there —well, I have a few scattered errands about town. I shouldn't be too long." She felt a little guilty. It didn't seem quite fair to the children, to put over such a big thing as buying a house, all by oneself, thought Evalyn, but she wanted everything settled before she told Maida and Charles that she had bought herself a home on Cherry Lane Drive.