[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: 164 A Great Tradition—The American National Red Cross — Edwin H. Powers]
phere of  great  cities.  Much  of  our  population  shifts  back  and  forth  across 
the  country,  hardly  finding  time  to  get  acquainted  with  new  neighbors. 
The  protective  unity  of  families  is  weakened  as  individual  members  scatter 
from  the  home  community. 
But  people  have  not  changed.  In  time  of  trouble,  they  need  assur- 
ance that  they  are  not  alone.  To  help  provide  this  assurance,  millions  of 
Americans  turn  to  their  Red  Cross.  Because  they  join  and  serve,  they 
are  able  to  extend  a  friendly  hand  to  those  who  most  need  help. 
We  see  that  help  in  the  millions  of  pints  of  blood  freely  given  through 
the  Red  Cross  for  those  who  would  die  without  it.  We  see  it  when  a  New 
England  fisherman  who  lost  his  boat  in  a  hurricane  is  given  another  so  he 
can  earn  a  living  for  his  family.  We  see  it  in  emergency  help  to  the  family 
of  a  serviceman  who  is  away  from  home. 
When  the  Red  Cross  answers  the  call  of  those  in  need,  Americans  keep 
alive  one  of  our  great  traditions— friendly,  neighborly  help  to  our  fellow 
men. 
This  is  an  annual  appeal  for  good  will  and  help.  Join  the  Red  Cross 
and  answer  the  1955  call  to  service.

Q)ight^-(cJne    ijears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman  s  Exponent,  March   i,  and  March  15,  1873 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
Note:  The  heading  "Eighty-One  Years  Ago"  is  substituted  this  month  for  the  regular 
title  "Sixty  Years  Ago/'  since  no  issues  of  the  Woman's  Exponent  were  pub- 
lished during  the  month  of  March  1894.  ^^^^  Woman's  Exponent  began  publi- 
cation in  June  1872,  and  the  following  excerpts  are  from  the  issue  of  the  fol- 
lowing March. 
A  UTAH  LADIES'  JOURNAL:  The  women  of  Utah  to-day  occupy  a  position 
which  attracts  the  attention  of  intelligent  thinking  men  and  women  everywhere.  They 
are  engaged  in  the  practical  solution  of  some  of  the  greatest  social  and  moral  problems 
of  the  age  ....  Who  are  so  well  able  to  speak  for  the  women  of  Utah  as  the  women 
of  Utah  themselves?  "It  is  better  to  represent  ourselves  than  to  be  misrepresented  by 
others."  For  these  reasons,  and  that  women  may  help  each  other  by  the  diffusion  of
