[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: Society for the Perfection of Women — Marianne C. Sharp]

"As a matter of fact," she said, "af you'll go out in the orchard and get the stepladder while I rig up a long extension cord, we'll go up and examine that sea chest." I brought up a couple of planks to bridge the beams, and a large cushion for Aunt Elon, because we had to sit on the planks. Then I helped her up carefully, and I dangled the light globe while Aunt Elon raised the lid on the chest. The while she was telling me the story. "Ma was never so disappointed and hurt in her life. All the pretty things her grandfather had collected around the world while he was a ship's captain had been stored in that chest when she was a girl. She told me about a Spanish shaw] that was embroidered all over in rich, bright colors, and of a carved ivory fan that had come from India. But you see they are not here. Ma had two older sisters. 'They did not have the blessing of the law to break the will, but they found a chisel to break the lock." At that moment my light globe revealed a yellowed letter, tightly folded, and written in a fine, cramped hand. 'There was no envelope, and the page was written over itself, crosswise. "I never knew there was a letter," Aunt Elon said. "Or if I ever knew, I had forgotten. Read it, child." I read: 176 To our sister, Emily Preece, who, without blessing of bishop or kindred, deserted the home that nourished her, despised the country that protected her, and spurned the faith that fostered her, to become the consort of the infidel, one Reyburn West, who together with him did go to dwell — in a land of savages and heathens: Emily, you have broken your mother's heart. Ma is dead. She departed this life on the 27th instant. She left a last testament. We, your older sisters, Charlotte and Rhoda, do jointly inherit the house and grounds. 'To you, Emily, is left the old sea chest. 'The testament reads: ''the old sea chest and contents." The contents, you see, are not itemized. We, Charlotte and Rhoda, knowing full - well that you will never have any need for silks and ivories in a wilderness of buffaloes and Indians, have taken it upon ourselves to supply a suitable contents which will satisfy the demands of the will. Respectfully and oblige, Your sisters, Charlotte and Rhoda Preece. P. S. You asked for news. So we are sending you news. We are sorry that much of it is charred. 'The firemen were careless when the church burned down, and the printing establishment also caught fire. We were able to rescue this much. Respectfully, C. P. & R. P. HE trunk was full of rubbish— broken plaster, bits of brittle stained glass, charred wood fragments, chips of stone, and old papers, many, many old papers, blackened around the folds where the flames had eaten in, and yellowed and water-stained in the centers where the fire had been arrested—just the sweepings from the street where the rubbish had been strewn. Poor Grandmother Emily! No wonder she had closed the trunk forever. No wonder she had had it placed up on the rafters where RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 it would never be seen or mentioned. A legacy of rubbish! Her mother had forgiven her enough to send her the chest and contents. But her sisters had forgiven her only enough to send the chest. I tugged at one of the larger fragments of "news."