[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Stewart]
[The Legacy — Ora Pate Stewart]

Hands on hips, he, surveyed Joanna's folly. There were fruits, vegetables—dozens of them— and dry beans and split peas and cereals and canned potatoes and meat "Hey, are we going to invite the neighbors to share our cozy little disaster?" he wanted to know. "Tf necessary, yes, although Marge and some of the others are planning to start rooms like this now." George's grin was sardonic. It would be pleasant to watch that, from a distance. He held up a bucket with, holes poked through the sides near the bottom. "What is this?" "A stove. When you get the charcoal burning down in the bottom of it, you put this grill on and cook hamburgers or potatoes or 154 corn in husks, or what-have-you. It also keeps us warm." "Lights up the gloom, too?" "Oh, no. Look!" She held up a kerosene lamp with a glass bowl and stand and a wick a foot long. It brought back memories of visits to Gramp's old ranch when George was a kid. Apparently Joanna hadn't forgotten a thing. Silently he picked up her Red Cross certificate of First Aid and Civil Defense and tacked it up over the door. "What on earth are you doing?" "Just hanging up your sheepskin, honey. We are now ready for disaster." Accordingly, disaster struck. It was nothing so dramatic as an atomic bomb or a famine. Not even a small earthquake. George was coming home from work, carrying the inevitable sack of groceries, and between the curb and his own door he got run over. By two racing bicycles. How it happened, or why it happened, only the testimony of two very frightened young boys would ever indicate. All Joanna knew was that there was a shout, two screams, the horrible grinding sound of metal on cement, and a terrifying huddle of arms, legs, and battered bicycles right there before her front door. Be calm, be cool, the well-trained first aider inside her head shrieked wildly. First, urgent rescue! Her head began a slow, agonized swimming, but her legs carried her to the spot. Almost at once, two bodies extricated themselves from the mess. 'They were Jim West and Paul Dean, boys who lived up the block. Jim's shirt was mpped right down the back, and a long scratch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 began to show red beneath it. It turned Joanna's sight fuzzy. She shook her head impatiently. George lay motionless on the sidewalk, face down. She dropped down beside him just before her knees gave out on their own account. "Gosh, we didn't mean to, Mrs. Cameron," Jim babbled, and Paul began to sob. "He was looking back at his car and walked right in front of us!" "I know you didn't mean to," Joanna said gently, her lips continuing with a silent, steady prayer. AREFULLY she ran quick, exploring fingers down George's back before she eased him gently over. A sickening gasp sucked itself through her clenched teeth. It looked as if the whole left front of him were bleeding. On the sidewalk were scattered groceries and the jagged pieces of a shattered bottle. She shut her eyes. "Paul, go into my house and call Dr. Peters." Paul was moving before she finished speaking. "Jim, go around to George's work room and bring me the First Aid box on the top shelf just inside the door. Quick!" Jim ran with a queer, one-sided gallop. The soft, fuzzy settling around Joanna's head was stifling. ""This is George," she said aloud to keep her faculties awake. "And he is injured. Open his shirt and see where's he's hurt. Move!"' Her fingers did as they were commanded. Most of the blood disappeared when she pulled the shirt back. Only the sleeve grew darker and darker. Jim was back with the fog that began SURVIVAL UNDER PROTEST 155 Leola Seely Anderson, San Bernardino, California, appears in The Relief Society Magazine, as a first-time winner in the short story contest, with her offering "Survival Under Protest.'' However, Mrs. Anderson has had considerable recognition for her literary efforts. ""The Relief Society Magazine launched my first article from Brigham Young University ("A Personnel Department for the Home,' The Relief Suciety Magazine, October 1935), but I cut my literary teeth (news and fiction) on The Deseret News, The Salt Lake Tribune, The Sun-Advocate (Price, Utah), and The Toronto Star Weekly. Most recently Reader's Digest and Faith Today have printed articles. Next to my family, my seminary class is my greatest love, though I also teach the literature lesson in Relief Society, and college English classes. My husband (a language instructor at San Bernardino Valley College), and my sons, Richard (fourteen) and Brent (nine), are presently aiding, abetting, and heckling me in a program of "Mom Goes Back to School." Future grist for the literary mill—when it finds a spare moment to grind! I used to be a member of the Blue Quill (Ogden, Utah, writers) and also a member of the Southeastern Chapter of the League of Utah Wiiters."' kit, and she cut the shirt away at the shoulder. As the cloth slid back, blood spurted with each thrust of George's strong, young heart. She groped for a bandage, but her eyes would not focus. All she could see was that bright, red life leaving George, her George. Dr. Peters would be here in a few minutes—but even a few minutes would be too late. First Aid is what you do before the doctor comes. Knowledge is to prepare you to act when it is necessary. You know what to do, Joanna. Do it! She shut her teeth tight together, and her nerveless fingers went down into that warm, scarlet stream and closed around the jagged flesh. The blood ceased to spurt. "Go get Marge Johnson," she mumbled, while nausea rose in an engulfing tide over her. FOR the next century Joanna knelt there, George's blood drying in stiff little smears on her hands, light and darkness confusing her thoughts. That awful bump on his forehead must have knocked him out, and his cheek is rubbed and bruised.... Joanna resumed her prayers. "Joanna, baby!" Marge's voice brought all the tension release of the arrival of the US. Cavalry. "Whatever happened?" Don't let go, Joanna commanded herself. This is a reinforcement, not a replacement. "Get the stretcher from the Survival Room." She found a dressing now, and though as she momentarily released her hold on the wound, the blood leaped at her again, it was a matter of seconds until the bandage was in place and securely tied—with square knots. They rolled George on to the stretcher and carried him into the Survival Room and _ laid him on the cot. "Fix Paul and Jim up, will you, Marge?" Joanna said, while she 156 bathed the blood and catsup from George's face. Why didn't he open his eyes? She put a cold compress on the lump that gleamed red, white, and bruised on his forehead. A car stopped out in front. Dr. Peter's quick, efficient footsteps and the music of his voice. ""What's up, here?" He leaned, over George, raised his eyelids, took his pulse. He examined Joanna's bandage and the wound beneath it. He tossed a smile over his busy shoulder. "Tl cite you for gallantry in action, Joanna," he said. "You probably saved your husband's life." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 "I—I did?" smiled Joanna moistly, and toppled over at his feet, out cold. That's when George Cameron sighed and opened his eyes. "Joanna!' he croaked. "What's happened to Joanna?" Dr. Peters laid her on the other cot. "She fainted. I promise to give you full details when I'm not so busy with two of you." George viewed his own bandages with a grimace and rubbed a hand gingerly over his aching brow. "Well," he mumbled, "the little woman never could stand the sight of blood." ~~} Of Power and Love Genevieve Wyatt For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind (II Timothy 1:7). Peace of mind I asked for, "Oh, peace of mind," I prayed, "God grant me this one blessing For I am sore afraid." And through the dark T struggled And through the dark cried out, For fear still lingered with me In troubled thoughts and doubt. Then, seeing peace in loved one's eyes, I saw, too, perfect trust, For peace of mind is perfect faith— God's love is true and just. And as my faith grows stronger God's greatest gift is sure. I know it will be completely mine When faith is full and pure. Perennials Preferred Dorthea N. Newbold, Deseret News Garden Editor asked — numberless times — "Please tell me the name of a perennial flower that will bloom continuously throughout the summer." Perennials are herbaceous plants that live for many years — usually they die down to the rootstock in the fall and come up again in the spring — flowering every year. But certainly there is no one variety of these treasures of the garden which will bloom continuously throughout the growing season, By selecting from a wide assortment of perennial plants, however, the gardener may be assured of bloom from earliest springtime until late fall. E VERY garden editor has been Preparation of Soil Consider first the soil with which you will be working. For, without a rich, crumbly, well-drained soil, all the work of creating a garden and the expense of top quality plants, is wasted. Soil should be dug deeply, with ample humus material incorporated to make an almost inexhaustible storehouse of food for the plants. Remember that once planted, it will be many years before you will move those perennial plants. Give Perennials a Strong Background To show to the best advantage, perennials need a_ strong background. A free standing border makes a thin appearance — even though there are generous sized colonies of plants. Placed against a strong background, such as a border of shrubs, of evergreens, or against a garden wall, or a wooden fence (either painted or stained), or against the side of a building, the blooms will show off to much greater advantage. Width of Beds Width of the beds is very important. It is almost impossible to achieve continuous bloom or a varied effect in a narrow border. Consider beds five to eight feet in width for the best effects. However, you may have a narrow strip in which you prefer to plant perennials. 'Try peonies or iris or phlox or chrysanthemums for a big season splash of colorful blooms, and use an annual, such as petunias, for the front edging to give color throughout the summer and fall months. Wide borders allow plenty of space to use low-growing, early blooming perennials in the front of the borders, taller growing plants at the rear, with the medium growing plants placed in the center sections. This is not an ironclad rule to be followed, for a medium tall plant having attractive foliage — peonies for example, may be placed near the back of the border, or some delphinium plants may be_ brought close to the front edge. Emphasis on the Old Reliables Peonies, iris, delphiniums, daisies of every variety, phlox, hardy asters, Page 15/7 158 Derthea Nowbold COLUMBINE The delicately beautiful blossoms of columbine and the attractive foliage add airy grace to the' perennial borders. Chrysanthemums — these are the old reliables, and plant hybridizers have worked wonders with them to give us plants with larger flowers, sturdier stock, better colors. Use these plants with a lavish hand, planting them in colonies of threes, fives, sevens, nines, or more, if desired. 'To create a garden picture which will have unity and strength, repeat like plantings in another section of the border. For example, you will find that a planting' composed of three peonies, five delphirriums, and seven phlox carelessly scattered in an_ undesigned border says very little. 'The same number of plants grouped in colonies, with a like planting repeated in another section, will give greater pleasure and satisfaction. Front Edging of Borders It is extremely difficult to plan a border of any size which will disRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 play a neat, tidy appearance and at the same time be in bloom from April until fall. There will usually be unsightly spots where some perennials have passed their season, and where neighboring plants have failed to cover the traces of the earlier variety. Care must be taken, then, not to have too many of the early blooming sorts toward the front of the border unless they will retain their foliage until fall. The general appearance of a planting depends tremendously on the blossoms and foliage of the front of the border. Hardy candytuft — Iberis sempervirens — produces loads of lovely white flowers in the springtime, then the plants may be sheared back for a neat appearance for the remainder of the season. Courtesy Jackson and Perkins Company DELPHINIUM (LOVELINESS) Delphiniums are an unsurpassed source of blue flowers. The tall spires of bloom add interesting form to the perennial border. PERENNIALS PREFERRED Courtesy Jackson and Perkins Company 159 SHASTA DAISY (WIRRAL SUPREME) A new form of an old standby, the Shasta Daisy, a thrifty plant which blooms lavishly. Dianthus, variety Cheddar pink, or Dianthus plumarius — old fashioned clove pink, will provide fragrance unsurpassed during its blooming season, then the seed pods may be trimmed off for a neat, attractive appearance throughout the remainder of the season. 'The evergreen coralbell, Heuchera, is a lovely thing, its geranium-shaped leaves remaining in perfect condition until after hard frosts. Early-Flowering Perennials Primroses of many varieties, Doronicum, (leopard's-bane), peonies, Pyrethrum, iris, bearded and the Siberian varieties, oriental poppies — there is an endless list of May and June blooming perennials. However, selecting a_ limited group of bearded iris is a complicated business, for the varieties number into the thousands. Great self-control is needed on your part 160 or your garden will become a display of iris and not the varied perennial garden you desire. Early Summer As the springtime slips into the summer, oriental poppies take over the scene. Poppies need a careful setting, for a flaming orange will protest loudly if placed near a patch of rose. Still we would not forfeit the pleasure of growing poppies. Poppies disappear after the blooming period, leaving a blank space in the garden. 'The gardener soon learns to cover up their disappearance with plants of Chinese delphinium, Shasta daisies, Statice, or baby's-breath (Gypsophila paniculata), variety Bristol Fairy, planted in front of the poppies. Perennial Phlox for Midsummer Blooms With midsummer and with the coming of hot weather, the energy of the gardener is sorely taxed, but if the perennial phlox plants have been grouped with a generous hand, if they have been carefully watered and mulched with a layer of wellrotted manure, the borders will be a riot of color. No perennial quite equals the phlox for extravagance of blooms, for persistence, or for selfreliance. The New Day Lilies In recent years day lilies, Hemerocallis, have been undergoing some interesting changes through the efforts of plant hybridizers. A little thoughtful study of a catalogue will disclose the many new colors — pinks, purples, pale creams and yelRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 lows, white, deep yellow, and many blends as well. 'Then, too, you may select from long lists, varieties that will bloom during the spring or summer or fall. Indeed, one could have a most interesting garden containing only day lihes. Fall Arrives As the summer passes and the fall season begins, hardy chrysantheums, hardy asters, and anemones come into their own. No garden would be complete without hardy asters which are sogenerous with their blooms. Plant hybridizers have worked wonders with the hardy chrysanthemums, and there are dozens and dozens of new varieties listed in the growers' catalogues — waiting for you to use them in every spare corner of your perennial borders. 'They take up such a small area until well into the late summer, that with generous use of small, single starts set out in early springtime, the garden will, in the fall months, look as if it were a garden of chrysanthemums. From September until killing frosts, anemones will offer lovely white or delicate pink waxen blooms, lovely for either the house or the garden. Like people, perennials have their limitations, so learn to allow for these. At the same time, emphasize all their wonderful assets. Learn to evaluate. Though you desire a plant of every known variety when you begin to garden, you will soon learn to make discriminating selections — to please you and to suit your personality. ACI Go to Reliof Society Nell B. Brenchley HE things that happen to me on Relief Society day! I am sometimes tempted to believe that if I had not such an ardent love for that organization, I should have given up trying to get myself and two or more children to Relief Society meeting long ago. Somehow things seem to get all tangled up on that particular day. I have entertained the thought that life might run more smoothly, if I pretended not to be going to meeting at all, And then, say about 1:30, I would trick fate, change my dress, grab the children, and dash off to Relief Society without looking back. But no. I would most assuredly have to bathe John, my three-yearold, you know how little boys are, and then perhaps the baby would be asleep or hungry or—no, I must plan ahead. But you know when Sister Hammond read that quotation from Burns in her literature lesson last year, the one which goes, "The best laid schemes o' mice and men, gang aft a-gley,' well, I felt like Burns must have written that especially for the mouse and me. Just that very day I had hoped to be all ready to leave, and when I called John in, there he was with mud up to his ears. I have almost developed a sleight-of-hand act from some of those quick changes. I wasn't late, but I can't say I was unruffled. Then there was last week. I was going like a race horse to get things in shape so I could leave when the telephone rang. Goodness, I thought, I hope it's not. My good husband's voice asked, "'Aren't you going to Relief Society today?" "Yes, dear, I am," from me. "Why didn't you say you wanted the car at lunchtime?" he inquired. "Well, I did mention that I was going to meeting, but I decided to walk." Isn't that just like a man? He probably didn't even listen when I told him I was going. He was saying, "And carry that baby? Ill say not. Ill come and get you." "T can walk," I insisted, but then, thinking that I could use those extra ten minutes, I said, "All right, if it won't put you out too much—meeting's at two." I did use the extra ten minutes profitably, but at three minutes to two there was still no car in sight, so I wrapped up baby, and the three of us started out, thinking we would surely meet him coming for us. Baby was getting powerfully heavy by the time I reached the church, and I was puffing like the "little steam engine that could" or something, but still no husband in sight. I do hate to be late. Just as I reached the Relief Society room I turned, too quickly I am afraid, to see if young John was following. He was, and I smacked him in the poor little head with my swinging handbag. He sent up a wail that would put a banshee to shame. I found at suppertime that husband had forgotten completely about us. He was very penitent, but I think I shall not make any such arrangements another time. Page 16] 162 There was another day. I was helping with the program for the opening social, so I was planning to leave home a half hour early. I was finishing up the luncheon dishes and things seemed to be well in hand, when John's voice called to me from the bathroom. "Mommy, I can't open the door." I dried my hands on my apron and turned the knob, and my heart sank. "John, you didn't lock the door, surely?" I asked. "Locked, Mommy," he called nonchalantly. "But how could you, it's too high?" that was to myself, but he answered, "I standed on my toes." "Well, just stand on your toes again and unlock it." I was impatient. "T did, but I can't." "Keep calm," I kept telling myself, but as the minutes wore on and his three-year-old efforts were in vain, [ became frantic. I thought of the one small window. It was my last chance. I hurried down to find the stepladder, hoping desperately that the window was unlocked. As I shouldered the ladder, I glanced at the axe in the corner and thought grimly to' myself that if the worst came to the worst, I could use that. APPILY, the window was unlocked, I found, after forcing the screen, but it was far too small for me to get through at that time. My five-year-old Patty was the only one available, but she took one look into the bathtub below and shrieked that she was afraid. I begged, coaxed, and pleaded, and _ finally dropped her screaming and kicking safely to the bathroom floor. ' The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 three-year-old stood peacefully washing his hands, with the water running over the basin and into his Sunday shoes. We got to the meeting that day, too, finally. But do you know when I arrived home at four o'clock, I found my bread still baking. I guess I hadn't heard the bell in my excitement before leaving. I have heard somewhere that Brother Brigham Young liked thick crusts on his bread, but I do declare, I am afraid even he couldn't have eaten mine that day. I could name other hectic instances, some which have been more provoking than amusing. But I have adopted for my Tuesday creed, "Never say die." I must go to Relief Society. I simply cannot miss the theology meeting. I look forward to that day as a day when my life is enriched, and I may drink in the beautiful spirit of our class leader, our president, and her counselors, and as I listen to the staunch testimonies of the other sisters, my testimony grows, and I know that I am going to try to live closer to my Father in heaven and strive to understand my mission upon earth more fully. I must go to work meeting. 'That is the day that gives me courage to be a better homemaker. (Goodness knows I could improve my 'Tuesday schedule.) 'The leaders on this day awaken interest in so many homemaking arts that I have formerly thought beyond my reach. I do so want to make of my home a place where my little family will want to be more than any other. I must go to the literature lesson. Then my soul may rise above the I GO TO RELIEF SOCIETY commonplace things, and I may walk briefly with great minds. Could associations be more rich than those with Tennyson, Dickens, or Browning? Oh, the beauty of the literature day! I must go to the social science lessons. I am just awakening to the realization that we here in the United States have some things not 163 to be found in any other country. I must learn what I can do to help preserve the liberty that God has bequeathed upon this promised land, so long as we serve the God of this land who i