[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Now Its Spring Again]
AND  NOW  IT'S  SPRING  AGAIN!  179 
The  log,  as  you  see  in  the  picture,  curved  naturally,  and  was  proportioned  perfectly 
for  the  table  which  was  laid  for  twelve  guests.  The  beauty  of  this  unusual  centerpiece 
was  that  the  flower  arrangement  was  low,  and  guests  seated  opposite  each  other  had  no 
difficulty  in  conversing  and  admiring  each  other  over  it. 
This  same  rustic  log  will  be  used  again  and  again  as  the  different  seasons  roll  around. 
For  early  summer,  perhaps,  it  will  be  filled  with  buttercups,  daisies,  and  forget-me-nots. 
These  will  be  arranged  in  the  log.  Hot  paraffin  wax  will  be  needed  to  secure  the  con- 
tainers holding  the  flowers.  Then  the  flowers  will  stay  as  they  are  arranged  without 
danger  of  slipping  or  falling. 
When  summer  comes  and  gardens  are  a  riot  of  color,  Florence  may  fill  this  same 
rustic  log  with  bachelor-buttons,  poppies,  roses,  Shasta  daisies,  baby's-breath,  and  per- 
haps lovely  little  figurines,  quaint  and  colorful,  will  be  placed  along  the  sides  of  the  log. 
After  summer,  fall  days  will  roll  around.  Nothing  could  be  more  colorful  or  lovelier 
than  to  use  this  same  log  with  green,  red,  and  purple  grapes,  rosy  apples,  yellow  pears, 
and,  maybe,  ears  of  corn  and  green  peppers  to  give  evidence  of  the  bounteous  harvest 
days. 
With  each  changing  season,  the  cloth  used  will  carry  out  the  color  scheme  and 
harmonize  with  the  colors  used  in  the  centerpiece. 
Yes,  it's  spring  now,  and  violets  are  blooming,  but  summer  and  fall  are  sure  to  fol- 
low soon.  Each  season  has  its  own  measure  of  beauty  and  is  resplendent  with  flowers 
and  foliage,  just  waiting  to  be  plucked  and  used  by  Florence  to  make  tables  and  parties 
beautiful  and  different. 
JLet  cJhere   Ujc   ijDeautii . , , 
MaryhaJe  WooJsey 
They  err,  who  say  joy  cannot  be  in  "things'*— 
That  paintings,  tapestries,  a  willow  plate, 
Or  even  priceless  books  and  jeweled  rings, 
Are  only  dead  stuff,  quite  inanimate. 
They  do  not  understand  what  I  can  see 
Beyond  some  fragile  object  in  my  hands  .  .  . 
What  voices,  through  my  treasures,  speak  to  me 
Of  bygone  years,  from  strange  and  distant  lands. 
For  Persia's  patient  weavers  were  my  kin, 
And  China's  old  men  at  their  potters'  wheels; 
Smiths,  sculptors,  poets — all  who  knew  within 
Their  hearts,  such  love  for  beauty  as  mine  feels. 
Across  dim  centuries  we  speak  the  common  tongue 
Creativeness  has  known  since  time  was  young. 

Home  Laundering 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
Extension   Service   Home   Management   and   Furnishings   Specialist, 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College 
THE     term     "blue     Monday''  that  has  been   made   in   providing 
arose    out    of    the    common  more    efficient    products    for    the 
practice  of  homemakers  do-  home  laundress,  but  they  must  be 
ing  the  family  wash   on   Monday,  bought    with    caution    and    under- 
With    the    meager   and    inefficient  standing,  if  progress  is  to  be  noted 
equipment  and  supplies  homemak-  in  the  final  results  of  their  use. 
ers  had  to  work  with,  there  is  no  Today's  home  laundress  will  do 
wonder  a  state  of  depression  settled  well  to  read  labels  and  follow  direc- 
over    the    homemakers    of    bygone  tions  with   great  care.     Measuring 
days  as  they  faced  their  laborious  devices  and  temperature  indicators 
task  of  doing  the  family  wash.  Truly  are  needed  just  as  much  today  in 
it  was  a  full  day  of  hard  work  for  the  laundry  room  as  in  the  kitchen, 
many  mothers.  Easier    washdays    and    fewer    gray 
While  women  in  general  were  washes  are  easily  attainable  with  cor- 
laboring,  often  without  the  help  of  rect  use  of  laundry  aids  now  avail- 
any  mechanical  aid,  to  free  clothes  able. 
of  soil,  there  were  men  and  women  By  far  the  most  important  laun- 
working  almost  as  energetically  in  dry  aid  is  a  good  cleanser  or  deterg- 
laboratories  to  discover  easier  and  ent.     Today  we  have  two  kinds  of 
more   efficient  ways   of   doing   the  detergents,  soap  and  soapless.  The 
task.     As  a  result  of  the  labors  of  latter  are  commonly  referred  to  as 
this  group,  much  of  the  worry  and  synthetic     detergents     or     syndets. 
hard  work  has  been  taken  out  of  Within  each  group  are   mild  and 
washday,  and  the  life  of  laundered  all-purpose  detergents.  The  first  are 
items  has  been  greatly  extended.  intended  to  remove  hght  soil  from 
Efficient  labor-saving  equipment  delicate  fabrics.  The  latter  are 
and  supplies  in  the  stores,  how-  heavy-duty  cleansers  intended  for 
ever,  are  just  part  of  the  solution  the  general  family  wash.  Great  dam- 
leading  toward  snowy  white  washes  age  may  result  from  using  a  cleanser 
done  with  a  minimum  expenditure  stronger  than  is  necessary.  Like- 
of  time  and  energy.  Equipment  wise,  washday  blues  are  almost  sure 
must  be  used  efficientlv.  Good  to  result  if  mild  cleansers  are  used 
work  habits  must  be  practiced  by  to  remove  deep  soil  from  cottons 
persons  doing  the  home  laundering  and  linens. 
before  ''blue  Mondays"  can  be  en-  Just  what   is   the   difference  be- 
tirely  forgotten.  tween  these  two  kinds  of  detergents, 
Kinds    and    varieties    of    laundry  soap  and  soapless,  and  how  can  they 
aids  seem  to  increase  almost  daily,  best  be  used?    These  are  questions 
Shoppers  wishing  to  make  the  best  many  are  asking, 
choice  for  their  particular  needs  are  Soap  is  an  efficient  and  economi- 
often  bewildered  as  they  view  the  cal  detergent  when  used  in  soft  or 
vast  array  now  available.  I'here  is  no  softened  water.    When  it  is  put  in- 
doubt  regarding  the  great  advance  to  hard  water,  free  minerals  in  the 
Page  180 

HOME  LAUNDERING 
181 
water  mix  with  ingredients  in  the 
soap  to  form  a  scum.  By  adding 
more  and  more  soap,  the  scum  is 
eventually  dissolved,  but  it  is  ex- 
pensive to  use  soap  as  a  water  sof- 
tener. A  better  practice,  if  wash 
water  is  hard,  is  first  to  soften  the 
water,  and  when  the  softener  is  dis- 
solved, add  soap.  The  idea  that 
soaps  have  a  definite  advantage  over 
even  the  best  synthetic  detergent  for 
washing  clothes,  provided  that  the 
water  is  soft  or  softened,  is  not  with- 
out support  from  many  who  have 
done  extensive  research  in  this  field. 
Soaps  seem  to  have  the  ability  to  re- 
move dirt  that  syndets  just  won't 
get  out.  The  effectiveness  of  soap 
depends  on  maintenance  of  active 
suds  to  float  the  soil,  keeping  it 
from  settling  on  the  clothes.  Brok- 
en-down suds  permit  the  soil  to  col- 
lect on  fabrics,  thus  a  dingy  wash 
results. 
Syndets,  like  soap,  are  also  made 
from  oils,  but  they  are  treated  in  a 
much  different  way  and  are  much 
more  complex  in  their  chemistry.  In 
addition  to  fat,  general  purpose  syn- 
dets have  other  ingredients  added, 
such  as  water  softeners,  bleaches, 
fluorescent  dyes,  ordinary  bluing, 
and  products  that  will  protect  metal 
parts  of  the  washing  machine.  The 
big  advantage  in  the  use  of  syndets 
is  that  they  can  be  used  successfully 
in  either  hard  or  soft  water.  While 
they  will  completely  dissolve  in  cold 
water,  they,  like  soap,  clean  best  in 
hot  water  (140°  to  i6o°F),  a  tem- 
perature too  hot  for  your  hands.  A 
good  two-inch  suds  is  important  for 
good  performance.  Too  much  or 
too  little  will  minimize  the  cleans- 
ing power,  therefore,  it  is  wise  to 
use  the  least  amount  of  detergent 
that  will  do  the  work. 
Don't  change  from  one  detergent 
to  another  every  washday  or  so,  and 
never  mix  detergents.  Washday 
blues  await  if  you  start  a  wash  with 
one  brand,  then  add  another  one  to 
the  same  wash  water. 
npHE  removal  of  soil  from  clothes
