[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Mothers | Author: Thomas]
This  patriotic  program  was  presented  before  an  audience  of  about  one  thousand 
people,  who  thoroughly  enjoyed  the  pageant.  The  Singing  Mothers  choruses  from  the 
wards  of  the  two  stakes  combined  to  make  a  wonderful  chorus,  with  about  160  singers 
participating. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Bernice  O.  Dyer 
WEST  GERMAN  MISSION  RELIEF  SOCIETY,  BIELEFELD,  RUHR,  AND 
COLOGNE   DISTRICTS   HOLD   CONVENTION  AT   HERNE, 
September  11,  1954 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Bernice  O.  Dyer,  President,  West  German  Mission 
Relief  Society;  Berta  Hommes,  Ruhr  District  Leader;  Betty  Noble,  missionary;  Crysta 
Gorts,  Cologne  District  leader. 
Lucie  Wachter,  Bielefeld  District  leader,  cannot  be  seen  in  the  photograph. 
Sister  Dyer,  in  reporting  the  activities  in  her  mission,  tells  of  a  number  of  recent 
con\'entions  held  throughout  the  mission:  "At  each  convention  there  were  two  sessions. 
The  morning  session  was  only  for  the  officers  of  each  organization,  and  instruction  was 
given  to  them  regarding  their  function  as  officers.  The  proper  procedure  of  holding 
Relief  Society  meetings  was  also  discussed,  and  messages  of  visiting  teachers,  prayer  meet- 
ings, monthly  officers  meetings.  Singing  Mothers  organizations,  the  November  and 
March  Sunday  exening  meetings  were  taken  up.  The  afternoon  meetings  were  held  for 
all  the  sisters,  and  a  good  attendance  in  each  convention  was  evidence  that  they  are 
eager  for  such  occasions  ....  At  each  convention  also  a  handwork  display  was  held,  and 
the  beautiful  articles  made  by  the  sisters  in  each  organization  were  exhibited  to  ad- 
\antage.  Much  warm  winter  clothing  was  included  among  the  articles,  in  addition  to 
the  excellent  handwork,  such  as  knitting,  crocheting,  and  embroidery.  One  group  has 
purchased  a  knitting  machine,  with  which  they  make  all  kinds  of  warm  knitted  clothing.
