[Vol42 | March 1955 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: O Be | Author: Young]
North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 38, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

"O Be Wise: What Can [ Say More?" Aleine M. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1954] Y dear brothers and sisters, I M wish it were possible for me this afternoon, to express to my Heavenly Father and to you, the gratitude that is in my heart for the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ in these latter days, and for the organization of our own great Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is a real thrill to look out over this vast auditorium today and see all these wonderful sisters, and to realize that most of you are workers in this great women's organization. When we add to this great number all the sisters throughout the Church that are members, think what a wonderful power for good we can be if we will all be wise and live up to all the commandments that have been given to us. When Jacob, the brother of Nephi, was pleading with his people to believe in Jesus Christ and live up to all the teachings of the prophets, he concluded with these words: "O be wise; what can I say more?" This is the message that I would like to bring to you today, be wise. Last summer [ attended a sacrament meeting and a fireside for the young people at Bryce Canyon Lodge. I was thrilled with the sincerity of the many young people who stood and bore their testiPage 148 monies. One of the things that impressed me most at that time was the statement of many of these young people that their parents had been their example; that they had not only taught their children the principles of the gospel, but they had lived it themselves. What greater happiness could come to a parent than to hear this and to know it to be true? These parents have been wise and are reaping the reward. This is the reverse of the words of Emerson, who said, "What you are stands over you the while, and thunders so that I cannot hear what you say." 'These young people have said of their parents, ""What you are stands over you, and thunders so, that I, too, will be wise and follow your example." When the Pharisee came to Jesus and said, "Master, which is the great commandment in the law?" (Mt. 22:36) he replied saying:. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself (Mt. 22:37-39). I am sure that as Relief Society workers we are all endeavoring to live up to these two great command- "O BE WISE; WHAT CAN I SAY MORE?" ments, but there are others that we should also follow, if we are wise. We should at all times accept the advice and instructions of our leaders who counsel us so wisely. We will remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. This commandment was given to us for our own good that we might have a day of much needed rest, and the opportumty to improve ourselves and to grow spiritually. If we are wise, we will attend our meetings and we will urge our children to go with us, for it is here that we learn of Chnst and _ his teachings. It is here that we renew our covenants with our Heavenly Father. I' we are wise, we will keep the Word of Wisdom, for it is God's law and his will that we do this. Doctors and scientists and those who are living the Word of Wisdom today are proving that it is the right way of life and that everyone will benefit by doing so. If we are wise, we will accept in all humility any calling that comes to us in the Church, and give to it our best efforts, for it is through activity in the Church that we grow and our testimonies are strengthened. I have mentioned but a few of the commandments that we should adhere to, if we are wise. There are others just as important, and we are not in a position to choose the ones that we feel apply to us. The Lord tells us to keep all his commandments, and Jesus said: He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father (John 14:21). 149 In Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, and also in his great sermon to the Nephites, he advises us in these words from The Book of Mormon: Therefore, whoso heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him untd a wise man, who built his house upon a rock—And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man, who built his house upon the sand—And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell, and great was the fall of it (3 Nephi 14:24-27). Which are we like, the wise or the foolish man? Are we building our house upon the rock of obedience or upon the sands of disobedience? If we are wise, we will build it upon the rock and receive the blessings that have been promised to us in the sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which says: Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion; Seek not for riches, but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is nch (D. & C. 6:6-7). We all believe this, and we are all working and looking forward to eternal life in the celestial kingdom of our Father in heaven, but in order to achieve it, we must always follow the advice of Jacob when he said: "O be wise, what can I say more?" I pray that we may all have the strength and courage to do this, and I humbly ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Shird Prize S: tory Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest Survival Under Protest Leola S. Anderson HE first Monday night that Joanna jumped up from the dinner table to rush off to first-aid training class, George was amused. "Sure, Pl be baby-sitter, honey," he said magnanimously. "Never let it be said that the Georges, pappy and son, ever dimmed the lamp of our own Crusader!" Joanna pulled a face at him, running her fingers down her blue skirt over slim, lovely hips. It was a heady evening in early spring, with the setting sun sending gold fingers through the yellow organdy curtains to caress the blond heads of all three Camerons. The smell of freshly watered lawns from this corner up both sides of the subdivision came strongly through the open window. Serenity ruled inside and out, as if disaster were seven lightyears away. Poised behind their chairs, Joanna turned each blond head back and dropped a quick kiss on two turned-up noses, Geordy's little button one and George's strong skijump one. "Bye, precious. 'Bye, hon." "Not so fast!" George caught her wrist as she zoomed past and pulled her down into his lap. "I deserve better than that for tubbing, pantsing, and bedding my son down. To Page 150 LEOLA S. ANDERSON say nothing of washing up your dishes!" "Oh, George, the dishes, too? When you hate them so?" The stars came out in Joanna's blue eyes. "You're the nicest husband I ever married." "Just this once, I will," he said, "because I have an idea there won't be another one. Just let that Red Cross expert start talking about great, gaping, bloody wounds, and Mammy's life-saving career will end at the rail." Joanna turned a little pale, but she swallowed hard and firmed her lips resolutely. "No! I'm going to! SURVIVAL UNDER PROTEST get clear through this one. Why, it may mean our very survival." George's eyebrows went all the way up. "So bad?' 'There was laughter in his voice. Joanna nodded vigorously. "If we do as the Church tells us, we don't need to fear anything. And _ this we've been told to do. Besides, Civil Defense is warning us, too. The time has come when every home must be prepared for—for— well, for whatever comes." Geordy pounded his spoon in the soupy mess in his plate. "Mum, mum, mum!" he chortled. George nodded solemnly. "You're so right, both of you." He planted a swift, businesslike kiss upon Joanna's soft mouth and stood her on her feet, all five-feet-two of her. "Now you rush right out and prepare to detend our home, honey, while I mop up my son and heir." He grinned, towering over her. Outside a horn honked. Joanna flung her arms around his neck for a moment and ran for the door. "Never mind the dishes," she sang.