Summer Excursion Fares
Southern Pacific Lines
TO CALIFORNIA POINTS
To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS via SAN FRANCISCO $40.00
To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning direct or route reversed $47.10
Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA.
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS.
TICKETS ON SALE DAILY MAY 15TH TO SEPT. 30TH
FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCTOBER 31ST
For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE
PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT
41 SO. MAIN ST.
SALT LAKE CITY
PHONES WAS. 3008—3078
The Family's Insurance
Something New
Our Juvenile insurance is written on the standard form basis, giving insurance for the children that is really worth while.
It is now possible for the entire family to be protected by BENEFICIAL INSURANCE.
BENEFICIAL POLICYHOLDERS SHARE IN THE NET EARNINGS OF THE COMPANY
It will pay you to see a representative of the BENEFICIAL who will be pleased to furnish, without obligation, information and advice on:
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.
THE BIG HOME COMPANY
Home Office Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City
Heber J. Grant, Pres.
E. T. Ralphs, Gen. Mgr.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
AN OVERALL WITH A CLASSY APPEARANCE
MOUNTAINEER EXPRESS STRIPE OVERALLS
GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY, FIT, AND SERVICE
A clean, neat appearing garment for the Store Clerk, the Flour Mill Operator, the Dairyman, the Garage Man, the Teamster
None Too Large None Too Small
Be Prepared When Winter Comes!
Joy, comfort and security are yours if you own a face brick home!
FACE BRICK—charming in their soft color tones and textures, each individual brick taking part in carrying out the architect's designs, enables the builder to achieve beauty, dignity and personality in each home.
The Salt Lake Pressed Brick Company
319 Kearns Bldg.
Salt Lake City
Phone: Wasatch 951
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS AUTUMN AND WINTER LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of autumn and winter wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt. wgt. cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies number $1.25
No. 2 Old style, ribbed lgt. wgt. Cotton, our standard summer wgt. 1.25
No. 3 Ribbed med. Wgt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number 1.90
No. 4 Ribbed heavy wgt. bleached cotton. Our double back number 2.25
No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number 3.00
No. 6 High grade rayon tricosham silk. For particular people $4.00
No. 7 Light wgt. New or old style, mercerized silky finish 1.75
No. 8 Ribbed heavy wgt. Unbleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number 4.25
No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style 1.50
No. 10 Medium wgt. Silk for men and women, new style only 2.25
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills
Briant Stringham, Manager
28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines in Neat Uniform Bindings
$1.50 per Vol. In cloth with gold title
A Valuable Addition to Your Library.
Send Your Back Volumes Now.
We specialize in binding all Church Magazines, and offer a discount of 10% in lots of ten or more volumes.
The last series of Radio Discourses by B. H. Roberts, bound in dark blue cloth, gold title, for $1.50, makes a valuable book for study and reference. Send us the leaflets for binding.
The Deseret News Press
29 Richards Street
Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave $1.10
208 Light Weight Rib 1.35
32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt. 1.50
222 Cotton Rayon Stripes 1.65
294 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.00
302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.50
307 Men's New Style, Rayon 2.75
258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95
628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt. 2.25
264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality $3.00
748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.00
754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.25
908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75
1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton 4.00
BARTON & CO.
Established In Utah 45 Years
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City, Utah
HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE
If you want to prevent canker or sore throat, use Hall's Canker Medicine.
If any of your children have canker or sore throat, give them Hall's Canker Medicine.
This wonderful medicine is sold by all Druggists.
In Buying Canker Medicine Don't Forget to Ask For
HALL'S CANKER MEDICINE
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton Knee length $.75
No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs .85
No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot. 1.10
No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle 1.85
No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle 1.35
No. 64 Ribbed Med. lt. Cot. 1.35
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. bleached 1.70
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back 1.70
No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached Double Back 2.15
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 3.35
No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool 3.85
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. $1.75
Fine Wearing Rayon, Elbow and Knee Length 2.35
Long Sleeves and Legs 2.85
WHITE SHIRTS Cutler's Fine Quality $1.95
BLUE SERGE SUIT $37.00
HAND BAGS BRIEF CASES
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c.
Postage Prepaid.
Cutler's
36 So. Main
GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
PARENTS!
Give your boy—your girl a better chance to succeed
Prominent business men will tell you, "Young men or young women with a practical business education are independent. They can always earn a good living, and they are working under eyes of executives—where the lightning of promotion is likely to strike."
A thorough business course at this school will give your boy or your girl a better chance to succeed. There is no greater inheritance you can leave them than the ability to get ahead in the world.
We have prepared special literature which gives definite proof that our graduates succeed. It tells about the opportunities in business and how we train young people to grasp them. Write your name and address at the bottom of this ad and return it today for full details. No obligation.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
80 North Main
Your Name
Address
Shay's Cafeteria
137 South Main Street
FOR HEALTH'S SAKE!
TRY OUR SPECIAL PLATE DINNERS—
Well-Balanced Menus!
Priced 20c, 25c, 35c, 50c per plate
Served From 11 a.m. To 8 p.m.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

CONTENTS
Portrait of Mrs. Herbert Hoover Frontispiece
Transfiguration Henry F. Kirkham 463
Portrait of Mrs. Calvin Coolidge 464
The Coming of Autumn Mary Hale Woolsey 465
Dr. Katharine Blunt 466
Sketch of Life of Dr. Katharine Blunt 467
My Awakening Amy M. Rice 472
Three Generations of "Y" Graduates (with portrait) Harrison R. Merrill 473
Stick to It! Weston N. Nordgren 478
Editorial—Honorary Degrees for Women 479
The Social Workers' Conference 481
Shirley Reid Gudmundsen 482
Developing the Moral Judgment Dean Milton Bennion 483
The Evolution of the Ugly Duckling Estelle Webb Thomas 487
Easter Thoughts 491
Henry Catmull 492
Walt's Luck 498
Harvest Moon Virginia C. Jordan 504
Notes from the Field 505
Guide Lessons for November 509
Uncontrollable Curiosity Owen Woodruff Bunker 518
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123

VOL. XVI SEPTEMBER, 1929 NO. 9 MRS. HERBERT HOOVER Substituted for her husband, President Hoover, when she addressed the Young Women of Radcliffe College, June, 1929 Transfiguration By Henry F, Kirkham Spring goes! Her distant bells a murmured echo send— Yet now, where fairy lips first kissed from sleep The fallow earth, soft shadows quaintly blend; Lo, luscious summer fills the world complete, And golden glory full fruition lends. Spring goes! Her flowered steps a promised legacy— Even as child and lilting laughter part To bloom again, the man who is to be; So virgin life holds close beneath her heart The potent seed of some high destiny. MRS. CALVIN COOLIDGE Who received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at Smith College, June, 1929 THE COMING OF AUTUMN By Mary Hale Woolsey Autumn is coming, the bold, the gay, With a laugh and a song in Gypsy mood; With days of splendor—her gifts to earth— And hours of storm-hushed solitude. Spring crept so shyly into the vale, Hiding awhile in the sheltered places; And Summer, too—we could not tell Just the day she came with her thousand graces. But for Autumn—none of such modest ways! Hers is a conqueror's manner of pride; Hers those triumphal pennants flung From the highest grove on the mountain-side! Then a song for Autumn, the bold, the gay, The season of majesty and mirth; There's a maple aflame against the sky— And Autumn's at hand to claim the earth! DR. KATHARINE BLUNT New President of Connecticut College for Women THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XVI SEPTEMBER, 1929 No. 9 Sketch of Life of Dr. Katharine Blunt Dr. Katharine Blunt, who will assume her duties as President of Connecticut College, New London, was born in Philadelphia on May 28, 1876, of Massachusetts and New York parents. Her father, a West Point graduate, Colonel of Ordnance, U. S. Army, retired, was living in Springfield, Massachusetts, at the time of his death. Her mother lives in Springfield, Massachusetts. She has had both an extensive and varied educational experience covering a period of a quarter of a century. In her preparation for the responsible positions she has held, she attended schools in Washington, D. C., and in Springfield, Massachusetts (Miss Porter's School, 1889-94). In 1898 she took her baccalaureate degree from Vassar College, and later on did graduate work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1907 she received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Chicago, her major being chemistry. Then began her professional career. Her first teaching was done in Vassar College where, as an assistant instructor in chemistry, she worked from 1903-05. In the interim she did work in Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, returning again to Vassar from 1908 to 1913. Then came her appointment on the faculty of the University of Chicago, where she made rapid progress, serving in the capacity of assistant professor, associate professor and finally professor of home economics. From 1918 to 1925 she was chairman of the Department of Home Economics informally, when the department was part of the School of Education, and formally from 1925 to the present, with the Department on a regular basis in the Graduate Schools and Colleges of Arts, Literature, and Science.. Miss Blunt did war service in Washington from September, 1917, to June, 1918, with the U. S. Department of Agriculture and the U. S. Food Administration, writing (with others) U. S. Food Leaflets and a Course in Food Conservation for Colleges, 468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE afterward published in book form by Houghton-Mifflin Company as Food and the War. She is now finishing a book, in collaboration with Miss Ruth Cowan, the exact title of which is not settled, on vitamin D and ultraviolet light, a new chapter in nutrition, which is to be published shortly by the University of Chicago Press. She has written a number of articles published in the Journal of Home Economics and the Journal of Biological Chemistry on general home economics or nutrition subjects. Dr. Blunt is the editor of the University of Chicago Home Economics Series. She has been active for a number of years in the American Home Economics Association, for three years as vice president, for two as president, and now as a member of the Council. She is also a member of several other professional societies, of the Chicago College Club, the Prairie Club, etc. The following extracts from an article published in July in the Boston Globe are of interest: "Fligher education for women means healthier babies and a physical improvement of the race. "This is the opinion of Dr. Katharine Blunt, scientist, teacher and college administrator, who will drop her work at the University of Chicago this summer and join the distinguished group of New England college presidents. "The training of women, she believes, brings an immediate reaction in the next generation. "The newly-appointed president of the not very old Connecticut College for Women obviously likes her job and has faith in the capacity of her sex to make large contributions to civilization. ""Of course,' she said, 'the modern mother knows more about bringing up children, about properly feeding, dressing and training them than her mother knew. ""There has been a tremendous development in the whole subject of nutrition. It has had its origin in the scientific laboratory, and has been widely applied. Not only highly trained mothers, but mothers with less training realize the benefit of this increased knowledge. "*The president of a college for women must believe in a woman's ability to take part in a great variety of occupations. She must believe in woman's capacity for intellectual progress. She must have faith in woman's fitness for scholarship and for positions of influence in society. "These are articles in my creed. I believe woman is capable of applying what she acquires in a college training in the home, in the arts, in civic life. The richer lives women lead, the better it will be for our civilization.' " My Awakening By Amy M. Rice Many and many a dream I've had Of things I would like to be: A pine tree tall against the sky For all the world to see. While in the valley are bushes small Their worth I could never see; For a pine tree grand with branches tall Was small enough for me. And many and many a time, I'll state, A river grand I would be, Carrying ships both small and great Away to the wonderful sea. I love the rills and brooklets small, Singing their way through the land; They play their part. But it takes them all To make a river grand.; And many a time I've looked at the moon When it flooded the world with light, And wished that I a moon might be, Looking down on the earth at night. But the millions and millions of glittering stars That twinkle so merrily— Somehow their glory I never wished for; They seemed too small for me. And so I dreamed, as the years went by, Of wonderful things I'd be; But quite forgot that without the leaves There could never be a tree; That the stars are worlds greater far than this, Tho' small fo the finite eye; That without the rills, there could never be A river grand rushing by. Till at last, by the patient Master's will. One thing I have come to know: If you can't be a tree on the top of a hill, Be a bush in the valley below. If you can't be a river, then be a rill; If you can't be a moon, be a star. By earnest endeavor, keep trying until You're the best, whatever you are. MISS ARLENE HARRIS, MRS. EUNICE S. HARRIS, PRESIDENT FRANKLIN S. HARRIS Three Generations of Brigham Young University Graduates Three Generations of "Y' Graduates By Harrison R. Merrill, Brigham Young University Approximately fifty years ago, up from the little town of Benjamin, located a few miles south of Provo, came Eunice Stewart to attend school at Brigham Young University. When she signed her name as a student that first day, perhaps she did not know that she was the beginning of a line of "Y" students among whom would be a president of the institution, and a granddaughter who would go to Mexico to teach in a community which she would later help establish. Approximately twenty-five years later, Franklin Stewart Harris, son of Dennison E. And Eunice Harris, found his way to Brigham Young University. There he labored diligently, in 1904 was graduated from high school, and in 1907 took a Bachelor of Science degree. Young Franklin, endowed with the spirit of his pioneer ancestors, and pressing beyond the intellectual frontiers in search of further knowledge, soon became nationally known in his chosen field of agronomy. He returned from Cornell to teach in the Utah Agricultural College, where his outstanding ability soon placed him at the head of the Experiment Station. Then his Alma Mater called. Dr. George H. Brimhall, having grown old and gray in the service of his school, deserved to spend some years of his later life free from the onerous cares which his position forced upon him. In looking for his successor the Church Board of Education found Franklin Stewart Harris and elected him president of his and his mother's school. President Harris brought with him to Provo a small family of children. They entered Brigham Young University; and this year, fifty years after his mother's graduation and twenty-five years, approximately, after his own, his daughter, Arlene, took her degree. Arlene has accepted a teaching position at Juarez, Mexico, the home town of her grandmother and her father. The end of the line is not yet, perhaps. A quarter of a century hence another with his or her middle name Harris may come up to the old school that has meant so much to the Harris family. On the fifty-third commencement day, Eunice Stewart Harris returned, June 5, last, to attend the graduation exercises of her granddaughter, and stood with her son, the president of the institution, and his daughter Arlene, to be photographed. 472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Of course, there are many other cases of three generations of "Y" graduates; but these were especially interesting since the three were practically a quarter of a century apart, and Franklin Stewart Harris happened to be president at the time of his daughter's graduation. Stick To It! By Weston N. Nordgran No matter what trials you have in this life— No matter what burdens you're called on to bear— No matter what suff'ring and toil and care— No matter what problems you meet in the strife— Stick to it! No matter what others may think of you, friend— No matter if money is gone; The thing that will count as you go on and on— Is your courage and grit, and your definite end! Stick to it! Your loved ones may leave you alone to the world— Your friends may desert you afield. But the one who goes on, never thinking to yield— Is the one for whom flags are unfurled! Stick to it! Your God is above you, to lend you a hand; Your sweetheart or mate may be true; But the test of your character is up to you! Can you weather the storm—and stand? Stick to it! THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN  - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - -  - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND : - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L, Bennion Mrs. Elise B. Alder Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Lalene H. Lart Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - -Alice Louise Reynolds Manager : - - - -: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager. - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah: Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah 

VoL. XVI SEPTEMBER, 1929 No. 9 EDITORIAL Honorary Degrees for Women Not a great while ago women were made happy because President Glen Frank drew to the University of Wisconsin three well-known and well-beloved women in the realm of art. These women were Maude Adams, Minnie Madden Fisk and Zona Gale. There in the presence of the Commencement Convocation they each received the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters. Utahns were particularly interested in this event on Maude Adams' account, for they have always believed that she has earned any honor that might be conferred upon her. Now Smith College does itself proud by conferring on Mrs. Calvin Coolidge the degree of Doctor of Philosophy. We are using the presentation speech made by President Glen Frank in conferring the degrees on these three notable women. They are of such high literary quality that we feel sure that our readers will be interested in their inclusion. President Frank addressing Miss Adams said: Miss Adams: No one thought you would come to us, because no one thought you existed in flesh and blood; you were to us the discarnate spirit of immortal youth, dwelling in a fascinatingly impossible world of Celtic fancy with "hills which emit white birds and unwoundable pigs, thistle-stalks and fuzz-balls 474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE which take the appearance of armies, witches who shoot heroes through a hole in a leaf, dogs that turn men to ashes by their breath, or produce out of their mouths quantities of gold and silver, harps that spring to their owners and kill nine men on the way, shields that roar to each other and are answered by the Three Waves of Ireland." Certainly you had no right to walk into this stadium on mere human feet; you should at least have flown to us on the wings of fantasy. Because by the winsome witchery of your personality ani the creative contagion of your spirit you have, as Peter Pan, brought the lilt and laughter of youth to a world that must battle with age from the hour of birth, and, as Chanticleer, your lyric call has left eternal sunrise in the hearts of your hearers, I am happy to confer upon you the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters. Mrs. Fiske: As Miss Adams has brought us escape from the sordid and searing realities of our existence by carrying us into Barrie's and Rostland's world of imagination and fancy, you, like a priestess and prophetess, have brought us insight into the realities of our existence by carrying us into the world of Ibsen and those other social prophets who have made the theater at once clinic and confessional. Because you have guarded the sacred flame of quality in a theater threatened by quantity production, because you have dared to lead the crowd where others were content to follow it, I am happy to confer upon you the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters. Mrs. Breese: Because, as Zona Gale, you have given Wisconsin her place in the sun of letters; because subtlety and strength of mind, capacity for clairvoyant insight. Into the depths of the human spirit, richness and range of social sympathy, delicacy and determination of convictions, and artistic creativeness that refuses to crystallize into a formula have combined to make you a distinguished daughter of this University; because the ministry of your mind to this generation has achieved that union of mysticism and rationalism towards which valid religion and valid education alike move, I am happy to confer upon you the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters. Oberlin College and the University of Michigan, two colleges whose doors opened early to the gentler sex, should be looking about for worthy women on whom they may confer honorary degrees. We feel sure faculties will continue to cast about for outstanding individuals on whom by honoring, they can honor themselves. In their search they will not forget women. There are today a goodly number of women in the United States who would honor any institution by carrying the degree of that institution, and their number will steadily increase as time goes on. EDITORIAL 475 The Social Workers Conference The members of the General Board of the Relief Society and others who attended the National Conference of Social Work in San Francisco have returned in a very enthusiastic state of mind. They feel that the convention put over a program highly satisfactory and beneficial to social workers throughout the nation. Most of them seem to be deeply impressed with the message on the New Morality by Dr. Miriam Van Waters, the new president of the National Conference of Social Work. It was a message to the effect that no one may rightly be charged with committing crime until his inheritance, environment and particularly his own individual personality is understood. When we do understand these things we find "that the criminals of today are children who have failed to grow up because of the bad handling of parents. When we understand their actual life histories we see that evil wears the face of a frightened child. * * * The new morality is not merely a process of negation and suppression but it is the natural flowering of a vital human spirit. * * * It is not to terrorize man but to vitalize him." Another problem presented to the organization related to health. It had to do with medical treatment for the masses. It was stated that the poor received the best medical treatment free of charge as do the wealthy who can afford the best. The people who really suffer for proper medical care are of the middle class who cannot meet the physician's fee. It is a matter of gratification that so many members of the General Board were able to attend the conference. President Louise Y. Robison was there as a representative of the Traveler's Aid Society, and made an address before the Traveler's Aid section of the Conference. Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine represented the General Board of the Relief Society. Mrs. Marcia K. Howells, who is a member of the General Board, was also present at the session. From the office force of social workers, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams, Miss Lydia Alder, Miss Helen Midgley and Miss Margaret Davis were in attendance. Presidents of the following stake Relief Society organizations were at the conference: Cache, Ensign, Granite, Grant, Liberty, Logan, Pioneer, Salt Lake, San Francisco, Utah; and Bear River, Pocatello, and Wasatch Stakes were represented by stake workers. Such a representation is important to Relief Society workers for it is the only way they can understand and follow the forward movements in social work. In a later issue the Magazine will publish an article on the work of the conference written by a member of the General Board who was in attendance. 476 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Ruth The 'Ruth of the Old Testament symbolizes fidelity to family life. Wordsworth speaks of his Ruth as "a slighted child." Whatever may have been the fate of the Ruths of past days, they are decidedly to the fore at the present time. So much so that it brings to mind once more Shakespeare's far-famed question, what's in a name? A rose by any other name would smell as sweet. We are not inclined to quarrel with Shakespeare's philosophy, yet we do recognize that Ruths in the United States seem to be playing decidedly in luck. There are, in our country, today, many women of force who might go to Congress and represent their districts with efficiency and dignity. But the Ruths seem to be in the public mind, consequently we have the very singular and amusing result of adding three new women to the House of Representatives last year, all of whom bear the name of Ruth. Nor has it stopped there. It was inevitable that a woman should be President of the National Education Association this year. Two women ran for the position but the candidate from Nebraska, Miss Ruth Pyrtle, principal of Bancroft School, Lincoln, Nebraska, was the successful candidate. At least for a period of a year or two leadership has not only extended to women but we have assuredly fallen into Ruth's hands. Bread By Shirley Rei Gudmundsen And some there are That stand and serve The bread of each day's necessity To the hungry world, And smile? Knowing its hunger And its need. Ah?you wonder, then, At the fine cruelty of excellence P? That he who hungers most Should serve the best! Developing the Moral Judgment A JOINT RESPONSIBILITY OF HOME AND SCHOOL Radio Address Given over KSL in January, 1929 By Dean Milton Bennion, University of Utah Many people, young and old, go wrong because they do not think straight, and especially because they fail to foresee the consequences of what they do. In every field of business and professional activity such foresight is, at least under modern conditions, absolutely essential to success. Thus some moral phases of vocational activities may come into the focus of attention because they are inevitably associated with vocational success. In practice, however, this works in opposite ways. With unscrupulous individuals it may lead to immoral practices on the assumption that such practices further success. Thought Controls the Moral Life It is in the leisure time activities of individuals and of social groups, however, that distinctly moral or immoral habits are likely to be developed. It is also in these leisure time activities that conduct is apt to be most thoughtless. This may be because thinking is hard work, and leisure time activities are generally sought as means of relaxation. The remedy evidently lies in doing some preliminary work in deciding upon the kind and the consequences of the leisure time activities to be engaged in. If these are properly selected, some of them, at least, may be safely indulged in as relaxation. To what extent is systematic effort being put forth in the home to train young people in moral thoughtfulness? This queston should be answered for each family, and probably can best be answered by the parents if they will take time to check up on themselves. We shall undertake to suggest what they may and should do, with the help of their schools, toward developing this phase of education. There may be times when it is necessary to tell children dogmatically what they must do or refrain from doing. These occasions should, however, be reduced to a minimum. It should be the general practice to guide older children, and youth especially, by appealing to their understanding, by making clear to them the probable consequences, both immediate and remote, of various types of conduct and to develop in them a sense of responsibility for these consequences as they affect both themselves and others. It is evidently the lack of this training that is the cause of much 478 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the misconduct of the present generation, so much complained of. This statement is purposely made to include adults as well as youths. Officers charged with the enforcement of the laws know very well that much of the trouble is due to the thoughtlessness, irresponsibility, and selfishness of grownups as well as of the immature. Drunkenness Comes From Thoughilessness By way of illustration of such conduct consider the case of drunkenness. Has any one ever known of a young person who deliberately set out to become a drunkard? Or have all drunkards become sttch inadvertently and as a rule by seeking sociability and relaxation in their leisure time through moderate drinking with no thought of becoming drunkards? A scientific answer to this question might be sought by questionnaire and statistical methods. Probably an offhand reply may be regarded by some as very unscientific; but is there need of such scientific procedure to determine what every experienced observer already knows? May it not be taken for granted that the beginnings of drunkenness go hand in hand with thoughtlessness? In this connection it should be noted also that any use whatsoever of intoxicating drinks is to that extent intoxication, and that the foundation habit which results in what is commonly designated as drunkenness is formed during the period of early indulgences in such beverages. All young people and older people who may be tempted to such indulgence, should be led to understand and picture clearly to themselves the evil consequences both to themselves and to others of the use of alcoholic beverages, In pre-prohibition times the physiological consequences were taught in the schools. Since then evidently too much dependence has been placed upon the mere force of the law, which force is greatly weakened when numerous people fail to see the justice of the law and the beneficent effects of its general observance. It is these effects that should be systematically taught in both home and school. The physiological effects are, of course, important, but manifestly less so than are the economic, mental, and social effects of this type of self-indulgence. Any person of ordinary intelligence and reasonable degree of self-control who can be led to picture in imagination the ruinous consequences of such indulgences will gladly obey the prohibition laws of the state and the nation. When this result can be attained through the combined educational efforts of the home, school, and church, the problem of law enforcement, in this particular, will be solved. Bootleggers cannot do business without patrons. Morality Arises from Self-Restraint The same method may be applied to the problem of sex relations, with emphasis, however, upon the positive values attainable DEVELOPING THE MORAL JUDGMENT 479 through such relations when properly made as permanent life relations and subject to proper restraints?such restraints as will conserve the highest good of the race and the lasting satisfaction of the individuals immediately concerned. Young people should be led to think of their own future possibilities as life companions of persons of the opposite sex and, in this connection, of the possible joys of home and family relationships. In the light of these prospects the destructive forces of prostitution and other illicit sex relations become almost self-evident. Yet there may be occasions when it is advisable to direct attention specifically to the evil consequences of unchastity. Because this is generally regarded as a very delicate subject and one that calls for great wisdom in treatment it has been much neglected both in the home and in the schoo!. It is now conceded in theory that the home should be primarily responsible for this phase of education, and that the school should supplement home training and instruction as best it can.* How to Train in Truthfulness A moral education problem of universal concern to parents is that of training young people in habits of truthfulness. Can this be done successfully by mere command to be truthful or by the fear of punishment for lying? Students of this question are thoroughly convinced that it cannot. On the contrary, fear of punishment may have the reverse effect. Children will very commonly acquire the habit of lying as a protection against punishment. Many confirmed liars are doubtless made in this way. Fear of the natural and inevitable consequences of wrong doing doubtless has a proper place in moral training, but fear of humanly imposed consequences which there is a chance of escaping by lying is likely to be more harmful than helpful to moral development. Training the child to be truthful calls first for a relationship of love and confidence between parent and child together with a developing understanding on the part of the child, as he matures, of why it is wrong to lie. The reasons grow out of the social consequences of lying on the one hand, and of truth telling, on the other. It is easy for youths and older children to understand these consequences; how lying tends to break down confidences and undermine the foundations of all business and satisfactory social relations. The proper test of any type of conduct is to consider its social consequences were it made universal, and then to apply Kant's fundamental principle of conduct: "So act that thou canst will as a rational creature that thy maxim become a universal law of conduct;" or try the golden rule. Kant's form of stating this Both parents and teachers may obtain helpful suggestions from the American Social Hygiene Association, 370 Seventh Avenue, New York City. Some bulletins of this organization are sent free on request, while others are sold on a cost or less than cost basis. 480 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE principle may be too ponderous for the immature minds; the golden rule may not appeal to a selfish mind; but surely any normal mind of high school age can understand what would happen to society, and especially to business, if every one became a liar. With this assumption in mind he should readily arrive at a judgment of why it is wrong to lie. The same procedure may lead to approval and commendation of truth telling as a moral standard. It is absolutely essential to human welfare and to social progress. There remains, of course, the task in this as in other cases, of developing the feelings of the child in such a way that he will habitually act in agreement with his moral judgment. Respect for property rights and the prohibition of theft may be treated in similar fashion. Children very early and apparently very naturally assert their rights to their own property although they do not so readily recognize similar rights of others. In this case there is especial need of developing in each child understanding of the golden rule as applied to property; this rule may later be encuged to other forms of conduct where its application is less obvious. Attaining Harmony at Home A home problem of almost universal concern is that of inharmonious relations between children in the home. It is not unusual to hear a mother tell of the terrible quarrels and hateful attitudes manifest on the part of a fourteen year old boy toward a sister near the same age, and to note the consolation that comes to many such mothers when they are told that theirs is no unusual family experience. Perhaps the greatest comfort to parents, however, is to be given some assurance that the children will probably outgrow it. The facts seem to be that they may or they may not; something should be done to help them outgrow this habit, for such it often becomes. It is so much an outgrowth of deep seated feeling that development of rational judgment with respect to it, on the part of the child, seems almost hopeless. The best chance of doing this, however, is not usually in the heat of passion on the part of either the parent or the child; nor is such judgment best developed in public or in the presence of the exciting object. It had better be undertaken in private with one child at a time and in moments of emotional tranquility. Persistent efforts of this sort may, in due time, make an impression. Meantime measures of some sort need to be taken to prevent perpetual family turmoil, serious damaging of dispositions, both of children and of parents, and other possible disastrous consequences to mental health. This may make necessary on occasion firm commands to abstain from this. Variety of torture. When children do not get on well DEVELOPING THE MORAL JUDGMENT 481 together there can be at least some degree of separation. They may be given separate, individual work to do until they can learn the value of harmonious, agreeable cooperation. The punishment of requiring them to play separately, in case other companions are not available, may be sufficient to stimulate a wholesome effort to be agreeable. Throughout it must be remembered that such measures should be only temporary means of keeping the peace, and that children must learn ultimately to work and to play together in the spirit of friendly cooperation. The Basis for Thrift Instruction Another phase of character for which the home is primarily responsible is that of thrift. This too calls for development of the moral judgment in connection with training in right habits. The practical training is, of course, at the foundation, and is essential to the development of real meaningful judgments concerning the nature and the value of thrift. It involves honest earning, reasonable savings properly secured, and wise spending. Laws prohibiting child labor are enacted to prevent any person or corporation from using a child as a means to some other end than that of his own greatest good. This is a legal application to children of Kant's principle: "Treat every person as an end in himself, never as a means." The child labor laws are, however, not to be understood as meaning that all kinds of labor are bad for children. Children must learn to work much as they learn other things. By this means the child acquires habits of industry and individual responsibility. He may learn very early to be responsible for easy tasks; to begin with, for instance, the care of his own clothing as he changes morning and evening. To have a place for his clothing, and of course, for his toys or other property, and to put things in their proper places, is a foundation habit in thrift, since it tends to conserve these things and, more important, still, it conserves time, often the time of others as well as his own. The reason for this type of thrift may well be brought to his attention before he enters the elementary school. When this training has been well done in the home, and the habit has been somewhat generalized through thoughtful attention to the reasons therefor, the teacher of beginners will have occasion to be thankful. Many such teachers have to assume responsibility for training that rightfully belongs to parents. The delinquencies of the home in this respect are sometimes so far reaching as to put a damper upon the otherwise unsullied joys of a honeymoon, 482 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE when the slovenly habits of one of the newly wedded pair may first become known to the other. Thrift Developed by Industry The care of clothing and toys is, however, only the beginning of thrift. The child should early learn something of cooperative activities and responsibilities through training in doing his part, a part appropriate to his age and strength, in carrying on the business of the household. Training in habits of work and responsibility is best secured by definite assignment of regular tasks and making it impossible for the individual to shirk the task assigned him. This training in work habits should be supplemented with insight into the necessity of work and the justice of each individual's doing his part. This is generally made easier if work is used as a means of training in all phases of thrift, including saving and wise spending. It is much better for the child that he shall earn his own pocket money than that he should have it handed him outright or that he should beg it, as many children do. A child, may be instructed early in the most profitable methods of saving as well as of spending. This practical economics as applied to the individual may be taught in the home and the foundation laid for reasonable and honest expenditures in adult life. The all too prevalent tendency of Americans to spend beyond their incomes or on such a close margin as to make no provision for living through nonemployment and sickness periods may be due in some measure, at least, to want of proper early training in thrift habits and instruction in the principles of thrift. Knowledge of Principle Essential It is the purpose in citing these typical cases of moral training to call attention to the fact that while training in moral habits is basic and essential in all phases of moral education, this alone is insufficient. If desirable habits are to carry over into adult life and if the individual is to adjust successfully to new situations, he must have insight into the moral principles upon which his habits rest or ought to rest. He should have practice also in reaching conclusions of his own as to the rightness or wrongness of any proposed action. Mere habit is often wholly inadequate to cope with new or complex situations. In this respect ethics is not unlike other practical sciences. In the various applications of physical science to practical affairs knowledge of fundamental underlying principles is essential. A mechanically trained person may easily learn to operate a complex machine so long as it runs in routine fashion, but if anything goes wrong or DEVELOPING THE MORAL JUDGMENT 483 new conditions arise requiring new adjustments of machinery, there is call for the services of one who understands the principles upon which the machinery works. Life is full of new, complex, and difficult situations. It is fundamental in moral character that the individual shall make his own moral decisions. He may advise with others concerning his moral problems, he cannot, however, delegate his moral responsibility. Should he not, therefore, be trained systematically and thoroughly to exercise his moral judgment and thereby be enabled to decide upon the right course of action, when such decisions are called for? Morals a Part of Religion A system of morals is rightly a part of every great religion. Every system of morals taught as a phase of religion, however, should have the added support of reason and experience. No devotee of a system of religion should hesitate to apply this test to moral precepts taught him dogmatically. Authority in morals should not be at variance with reason and experience. It often happens, however, that one who has been brought up on dogmatic religion, including morals, comes to be a doubter of the religious dogmas he has been taught; and, having no other basis for his system of moral precepts than association with religious dogma, his disposition is to set aside his moral precepts also. Thus many individuals have gone on the rocks morally when they might have been saved from this fate by early instruction in the rational basis of conduct. Recompense Life is a path of ups and downs? Now the sun shines, now it frowns; Yet from that low descending cloud, Black and hanging like a shroud, Falls the cool refreshing rain On the dry and thirsty plain; And from out the soul's deep night God's path is seen with keener sight. Recompense By Estelle Webb Thomas Miss Anne Hallowell was thirty-five years old; and even it she had wished to conceal the fact, which she never did, but which women since Eve have been accredited with doing, it would have been as impossible a feat in Mapleton as to have tried to keep secret the year Columbus discovered America, or the equally important year that the Mapleton dam went out. For one thing there was always old Granny Blevins, who at any time could push her spectacles up on her forehead, count up on her fingers and say, "Let me think?Anne's thirty-five, twenty-first December. My, that was a blizzardy night! I well remember how Mr. Hallowell came a-stampin' and a-knockin' at my front door?," and there wasn't a young matron in town who had not said, '"Let's see, now, Anne Hallowell's from December to June?or some such matter?older than I am. My goodness, who'd have thought that Anne would have been the old maid of the bunch!" And the children?it had become a formula to ask Miss Anne's age each fall when school opened, as though she were a stranger of whom one had never heard and then give the inevitable answer, "My land! You that old? Why, you're as old as my mother, and purty near as old as my dad. Ain't it funny you ain't never got married!" Miss Anne would listen abstractedly and murmur, "Isn't, Jack, not ain't!'' While perhaps some adoring little girl smoothed over Jack's crudities with the whisper, "I'm a-going to be an old maid school-teacher when I get big, just like you, Miss Anne!" And then Phil Morton knew. "Two years, two months, two weeks, and two days older than you, Anne!" - He had said it so often that it said itself now, whenever he thought of Anne. He had said it the day he was old enough to go to school, when Anne had had to wait an interminable two years. He had said it when they were high school sweethearts, and on that memorable occasion when Anne had shyly promised to marry him when they both got old enough. He had said it again, ruefully, when Anne had broken that childish engagement and said without bitterness that she would be an old, old lady before she would be free to marry, and he had said, "'I'll still be two years, two months, two weeks and two days older than you, Anne, so it will be all right." But Anne had been firm and Phil had for a time brooded darkly, nursing what he thought was a badly broken heart. But a young man in that romantic condition is an easy mark for Cupid, RECOMPENSE 485 and not without some surprise Phil found himself engaged to be married to pretty, round-faced little Alma Jennings. Alma was a good wife, a model wife, in fact; and if Phil's conduct was not always irreproachable, it was not for want of wifely counsel. Of course, Phil was happily married. He would have been the last person to deny it; but sometimes, sitting in church by his plump little wife and three round-faced children, he would glance speculatively across the aisle at Anne's clear profile, her dark eyes intent on the preacher, her brown cheeks flushed, and wonder, idly, what 'life with Anne would have been. As she wearily plodded through melting snow-puddles under naked shade trees, on this afternoon in early spring, Anne Hallowell was thinking of those long-gone days. It was seldom in these later years that she had time or even inclination for such reminiscencing, but it had all been resurrected today by the return to his home town for one brief day and night of the famous explorer and scientist, Dr. Stanley Davies. "The fellows" were giving him a "Do" at the town hall that evening, and he had called at her schoolroom to see Anne at recess, and incidentally to renew the offer he had made so long ago. Eighteen years! She had been just seventeen when young Stanley Davies, fresh from college, with many honors and more ambitions, had been attracted by her distinctive charm and courted her with the same intensity he gave to anything that claimed his attention. But although she had felt flattered, and any girl in Mapleton might have thought herself fortunate to have captured Stanley, it had been Phil who had held her girlish fancy then. And she had never seen Stanley since the night of her regretful refusal until today. Today in the dusty, prosaic schoolroom, with the cold, pale spring sunlight through the murky window bringing out all the lines in his clever face, the portly, successful man, incredibly matured in mind and body, who had called with no intention save the friendly renewal of an interesting acquaintanceship, had, as unexpectedly to himself as to Anne, rather diffidently and tentatively, renewed his boyish proposal instead. Anne was so different from what he had been expecting! So complete a fulfilment of what her vivid girlhood had promised. How the life of an "old maid school-teacher" in Mapleton could have so developed her, he could not imagine; but somehow, this Anne seemed just as desirable to the middle-aged scientist as that long-ago maid had been to the callow college youth. He took the second denial more philosophically, however, than he had the first, and assured Anne warmly, more than once, that he was at her service if ever the time came when he might prove his friendship. He little guessed, nor did Anne, how soon she would ask him to redeem his promise. A sumptuous automobile, better than those commonly in use 486 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in Mapleton, sped by, splashing mud on Anne as it passed near the unpaved sidewalk. Anne had a brief glimpse of a beautiful, discontented face before it was gone. The doctor's wife was nome again. Almost simultaneously there came from the little corner drug store a shriek of laughter followed by a lower chuckle in a boy's voice. Through the open doorway she could see the doctor's son, Richard, absorbed in the attractions of bold-eyed, painted Peg Bunting. Peg, a product of the vague section known as "the other side of the track," had been a problem all through the brief period of her school days, and almost from her babyhood had enjoyed the title of "fastest girl in Mapleton." She was older, and how infinitely wiser in the sort of knowledge in which she specialized than Richard Weston, and it was with a feeling of almost physical nausea that Miss Anne saw the boyish, high-bred face so near and so absorbed in the cheaply pretty, sensual one so temptingly near his own. There was a stricken expression on Anne Hallowell's own face as she went slowly on down the dreary sidewalk. It was true then, what she had heard whispered or hinted with giggles and winks and meaning glances, that Peg Bunting had "caught" Richard Weston. Little Richard, whose birth had meant for her a travail far greater than his mother had known, whose baby face had always so strangely stirred her, and whose every childish scrawl, with all the little gifts that proved his devotion, she had treasured during his first years of school. She remembered jealously when other interests, incidental to his normal boyish development, had supplanted her in his affection. He still spoke nicely and courteously when he met her as was to be expected from the son of Dick Weston and aristocratic Elizabeth Van Veering; but it had been years since he had actually seen her. As she turned into her own gate and entered the little white house which was the only home she had ever known, Anne's face automatically cleared. Her step was brisk and her smile warm as she stepped into the little living room. Her mother, as usual, sat by the fire, a knitted shawl around her narrow shoulders, her work basket by her side; but her thin, white hands were idle in her lap. At Anne's entrance she looked up with a worried frown. "Anne, can you pick up my stitch for me? I must have dropped it hours ago, and haven't been able to find it since; I'll never catch up with my knitting!" That accounted for her unaccustomed idleness. Anne could hardly remember a waking moment in the last ten years that those thin, white fingers had not been knitting?relentlessly knitting a cocoon, within which they were both being shut from life and reality. It had been fifteen years since Mrs. Hallowell's bodily health had failed, ten since her mind had gradually returned to RECOMPENSE 487. Childhood and she had become Anne's first and almost only consideration in life. Anne picked up the lost stitch now, thus restoring her equanimity, then changed into a gingham house dress and went methodically about her preparations for their early supper.; She toasted bread over the coals her mother had been nursing to the right heat for the last half hour, made tea, and spreading with a clean, white cloth the low table which a few moments before had held her mother's work and the pictures over which she liked to pore as a rest from her knitting, she set it with delicate old china?the tea, toast, and a jar of marmalade. Her mother, with the appetite of a delicate child, merely pecked at the food, and Anne, in her sad abstraction, ate scarcely more. The meal over, she gently washed the wax-like face and hands, brushed the still lovely hair, and carried the little, old child as tenderly up the stairs as ever mother took an ailing child to bed. Down in her living room again, Miss Anne hesitated a moment, - then went swiftly to the telephone in the corner and called the doctor's residence. "Dr. Weston?" she asked in a crisp, impersonal voice when her call was answered. "Mrs. Weston," came the answer in the soft, cultivated drawl of the doctor's wife, "the doctor is preparing to go out this evening. Was it something professional?" "Yes, and urgent!" replied Anne, quickly. "May I speak to him for a moment?" "I'll see." Mrs. Weston's tone was icy, but Anne waited, holding the receiver patiently until her message should be delivered. "You, Dick?" she said, when presently his unmistakable deep tones came over the wire. 'This is Anne. I must see you tonight. Can you come at once?" She did not think to apologize for interrupting his plans for the evening, nor did he notice the omission; he supposed her mother was suffering one of her frequent nervous hysterias; and with a brief, 'Yes, at once," hung up the receiver. It seemed but a few moments to Anne, waiting by the open fire, before his step sounded in the little hall. Amd indeed he had hurried. The thought of Anne facing those rending scenes alone was always terrible to him. At sight of her calm, pale face and the quiet room his own face expressed astonishment. "What is the matter?" he asked almost sharply. "Where is your mother?" "Asleep. It isn't Mother," said Anne in her low voice. "Sit down, Dick, I want to talk to you." The doctor obeyed automatically, never taking his eyes from her face. Anne leaned forward. "Dick," she said, her tone almost accusing, "do you know where Richard is tonight?" The doctor paled and a worried frown creased his brow, 488 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "No," he confessed, after a moment; "I wish I did. Something has?Richard is changed. I?can't seem to get at him any more. I am away so much?and he seems to be always out or going out when I am at home." His frown deepened. "If his mother was ever home?she came this afternoon, and you'd have thought he would have wanted to spend this evening, at least, with her; but he made some excuse and was gone as soon as dinner was over." It had been a relief to pour out his worry to Anne, and he had spoken with scarcely a pause; but now for the first time he seemed to sense the significance of her question. "Why, Anne, what?do you know where he is?" "Didn't you know, Dick, that he has been?been?" she hesitated for a word?"been seen constantly with the Bunting girl for the past month?" Nothing but Anne's voice and the expression in her deep eyes softened the bald statement. The doctor whitened. Richard! His clean, fresh lad with his frank, innocent eyes! "Not that?that? bad girl across the tracks?" he almost whispered. "That girl," said Anne, her own face white. "Dick, we've got to get him away! I couldn't bear?nothing must happen to him. He's?he's got it in him to be something. Dick, listen! All afternoon I've been thinking?you know Stanley Davies is here?" "I was going to the banquet for him," said the doctor, impatiently, "but what about Richard?" "Richard has always been interested in exploration? crazy about it?read everything he could get hold of on the subject," said Anne swiftly, as though she was his mother. And indeed, she knew far more of Richard's mind and tastes than his mother did, and went on when the doctor made as though to interrupt her, "Stanley told me today he would always grant me any favor?surely, Dick, he would take Richard with him on this trip he's just undertaking!" "To Africa!" the doctor gasped. "Yes, to Africa! O, Dick!' Anne was pleading, her lovely eyes imploring his, her slim hands clutching his arm. "Can't you see? It has to be something drastic? Richard is too fine to be lost. If he only had?" she hesitated, then plunged on, "Don't misunderstand me?but Richard needed more home life; he hasn't been safely anchored, Dick!" "As if I didn't know that!' The doctor's face was bitter. "But she'll never consent to let him go, Anne. Although she only sees him for a few months each summer, she'll exercise her divine prerogative as his mother to prevent that?even if Stanley would take him," he added, doubtfully. "I'll arrange it with Stanley!" Anne spoke confidently, RECOMPENSE 489 and added urgently, "Go find him, Dick, and try it! His mother couldn't object when she sees how things are!" When the doctor had gone, Miss Anne again had recourse to the telephone. Dr. Davies was surprised and intrigued at receiving a call from Miss Hallowell just as he was leaving for the city hall. No, it would not be at all inconvenient to call at her home on his way, he assured her, wondering if by any chance she had really changed her mind. Well, his offer stood?but it would really take a lot of readjusting of his plans if he were to take a woman along on this next expedition. Still, Anne?a vision of her calm, understanding face?her deep eyes, rose before him, and he hurried into his overcoat. It was near midnight when the Hallowell doorbell rang for the third time that evening. Anne still sat before the fire, a book in her lap but her eyes on the coals. There was an air of waiting about her and a controlled tenseness in her quiet figure. But it was her usual serene face she turned to the Westons when they entered, father and son, and one glance at their faces assured her of what she wished to know. "Well, we saw Davies, and he offered Richard a chance to go with him to Africa?even offered to stay over a day and wait for him!" The doctor said all in one breath, and then looked at Richard, standing rather awkwardly in the background. The boy stepped forward. "Miss Anne," he said, shyly, twirling his cap about in his hands as he spoke, and fcc the first time in years really appearing to see her, his frank eyes even looking the same adoration which used to be so inexpressibly dear to her, "Dad says you are the one to thank for this?this chance. It's great! It's something I've wanted all'my life! I?I?surely appreciate it ?and I can?tell you?I won't forget it!" His speech was painful and halting, but his look was something Anne Hallowell cherished to her dying day. "His mother is going to Europe with her mother and sister for the summer and perhaps longer," said the doctor, with a significant look, when Anne had put the boy more at his ease with some quiet, gracious reply. "So of course, she won't miss him as she would otherwise have done. It was really to s?e if I would consent to Richard's going that she came back so early." He paused, and Anne thought of the selfish woman who could not endure the hardships of the country town winters for the sake of her husband and son, and who was now going to fail them for the brief, beautiful country summer. "Mother was disappointed that I preferred going with Dr. Davies to a trip to Europe with Grandmother and her," interposed Richard, "but she doesn't understand what this 490 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE d means to me; you?you understand more about kids, Miss Anne, I guess because you've taught school so long! I'm afraid Dad is going to be lonely, though," he added, as a contrite afterthought, "all alone for a year or more; you'll not forget him, will you, Miss Anne?" "T''ll not forget him, Richard," promised Miss Anne, and the look she gave the elder Richard was recompense and balm for all the long and arid years before him. Around the Bend By Henry Catmull Says my kind friend, "I cannot see What there is in this life for me; You see my hair is getting gray, Like danger signals in my way. I've labored hard from day to day, Still found it hard to pay my way; For me the future, right ahead, Brings to my soul that fear and dread." Along the road our way we wend? We cannot see around the bend; One calls, "Stop quick, or we will go Headlong into the depths below." The driver tries to calm our fears; In confidence he firmly steers Right up unto the seeming end, When, lo! He swings around the bend. We travel on; no fear we feel, But trust to him who holds the wheel. 7" Sail on, sail on; there is no end, But scenes of beauty round the bend. The great Creator made the plan And shapes the destinies of man; Then put your trust in him, my friend? See the glory around the bend. Walt's Luck By Pawah Torrido Walt had never felt quite so lonely in his life as he did this evening when the lowering sun warned him that it was time to think of making camp. Nor had he ever felt the unseen prying of hostile eyes so keenly as it gnawed at his subconsciousness now. Indians! For two hours he had felt them watching him, he called himself a fool because, for all his skill in detecting the signs of pursuit, he had not actually seen or heard a suspicious thing. Yet he kept feeling that Indians were following him, just out of sight, ever alert to know exactly where he was, and very much aware that he was alone. He was near the camp-site that he and Jim had selected for this night. Another fifteen minutes would bring him to the little spring in the hollow. He had succeeded in keeping to his schedule so that before another camping time came he would probably overtake Pete Thurber and Dick Hansen. But now he was alone and it was time to camp, and he felt that Indians were about. He felt, too, that in spite of his six feet and strong muscles, he was very much a lonely boy. He wished that he dared push his team hard enough to cover the miles still between him and his friends ahead, but he knew that the last two days he had kept them to a pace that now demanded rest. Besides, if Indians were near, he would be no safer driving over the rough road in the dark than he would be in his lonely camp. Grimly he urged the weary team toward the spring. Warily he kept his! Face ahead and his eyes turning, turning, seeking something tangible on which to base his fears. If he were sure that Indians were about, he thought he would feel better. A real danger was easier to meet than an imaginary one. Why should he worry about the Indians, anyhow? He asked himself this question and answered that they had never hurt him, that this was a part of Nevada in which they seldom made trouble, and that his load of freight, so valuable to white men, was not what Indians prized. Then he chuckled to himself, "They might not want the gold, but I've got enough hair for two good scalps, and a mighty fine team of horses, and a good wagon and camp outfit. Besides, I'm notiso sure they wouldn't want the gold if they knew about it. For most Indians have had dealings enough with whites to know 492 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that it will buy anything a white man has. And I've got a good gun.". He patted it with one hand as it lay on the seat beside him, and for a moment it gave him a sense of security. Then he thought again, "Yes, a gun they'd each like to own, but it wouldn't save my scalp because while I got one with it an Indian that already has a gun would get me with him, or one would with an arrow. Well, I guess my famous luck will hold. It has before." Three days before, as he and Jim had blithely started out together with their valuable loads of freight, Jim's younger horse shied at a blown piece of paper just enough to throw one front wheel into a deep rut that Walt had carefully avoided and a loud crack of splintering hardwood had reached Walt's ears. He promtly stopped and came back to help Jim appraise the damage. It didn't look so bad at first, and they had worked cheerfully reinforcing the splintered spoke; so they thought it would carry the load through this time. But after only an hour of driving the same wheel had struck a rock hidden in the deep dust at the bottom of a rut, and two more spokes had given away. Again Walt came back to his companion and they stood silently staring at the wheel. Walt thought that if Jim hadn't been counselor to the bishop at home, Jim might have said a plenty. His face went white at first, and then it turned so red it was almost purple. Finally he expelled a great sigh, which must have compensated in part for the swearing he had held in, and remarked, "No telling how long it will take to get a decent job done on that. Maybe a week back in that town.": "That blacksmith you talked with yesterday said he didn't have any new wheels on hand, didn't he?" Walt asked. "Yeh. Too much freighting over these roads with heavy loads of gold and supplies. It's hard on wheels. Guess I'll unhitch and ride one of the horses in and see if I can't borrow a good wheel or a whole wagon till I can get my load in a safe place. Might as well make the best of it.. Darn the luck!" Walt grinned at the mild "cuss" and then looked thoughtful on his own account. "Brace up my axle; I'll let you use my wheel to go in with if you say so, Jim." Jim looked speculatively at him, as though estimating his size and courage. Then he asked, "Going to wait for me to get fixed up?" "Well, I dunno," Walt replied, '""Hansen and Thurber didn't get started till late yesterday afternoon and my team's better than either! One of theirs. I might catch them; let's see, about day after tomorrow, I guess." WALT'S LUCK 493 "Think you could? Be pretty hard on the team. You've got a good load and the roads are tough." Briefly then they discussed the chances, where the other two would probably have camped last night, how far they would get today, and where Walt would have to camp in order to gain enough each day to overtake them so soon. Finally they mentioned Indians and Jim shook his head. "Don't believe you'd better tackle it alone, Walt. Your folks sort of look to me to help you along, and if I let you go off alone this way and anything was to happen, they couldn't help thinking it was partly my fault." "But Jim, we're both nearly strapped for money and got just food enough for the trip. And everything costs like the dickens in these mining towns. I could let you have a little extra to last you over if I go now; but if we both stayed on, things wouldn't look so good." "That's true, too; but I hate to think of the country you'd be driving through tomorrow and you having to camp alone there. Indians would be sure to get you." Walt laughed confidently. "Well, I've never had much trouble keeping just one jump ahead of any Indian I ever met so far. I'm lucky that way, you know." "Yes, I know you've got more brains than most, but Injuns is Injuns, anyhow. And what if something happened to your wagon or horses, so you didn't catch up with 'em as soon as we've figured? Every day would take you further into Indian country?alone." "My. Wagon's practically new and my team's in the best condition. I think I'd better try it. The Indians haven't been bad lately, so I guess I could go all the way alone safe enough. I'll tell the folks you tried to make me stay and couldn't, if anything should happen." Jim knew that when Walt made up his mind he was hard to change, and he knew also that the boy had never failed yet to meet any emergency that had come in his varied experiences, From Salt Lake to the Muddy and freighting both East and West, in peace or Indian trouble, Walt had won a reputation for being cool headed in time of danger, though he was not one to seek it out. With Indians or with whites, from the days when he herded sheep barefooted on the hills, he had never been known to pick a fight or to stop fighting if the other fellow started. It, until that other acknowledged defeat. He had lived few years, but they had been full ones, and he had already proved himself a man in action as well as in inches. ? Jim thought of all this and argued no more, but refused Walt's offer of a wheel so that he might lose no more time. The boy insisted upon dividing his little store of wages with Jim, and 404 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE drove merrily off, whistling, as Jim unhitched his team and started back to the town. By sunset yesterday Walt had made the distance they had figured he would need,. And slept comfortably in a deserted prospector's cabin. Today, too,-he had gauged his distance and. His team's strength accurately, and now he approached the second campsite of their plan. It was three hours since he had stopped to examine a camping place which showed fresh signs, and had found in several places the print of a wider horseshoe than the average, and knew it for the off hind foot of Hansen's bay. He found, too, a few tiny heaps of tobacco ashes, which he was sure came from Thurber's pipe; for Thurber, as he said, had been born in the South with a pipe in his mouth instead of a silver spoon. Knowing that he had gained so much on them reassured Walt that he would have no trouble in overtaking them tomorrow if he started a! Little earlier and drove a little faster than he knew they would. Yet, in less than an hour after he had passed their camping place of the night before, this eery depression had settled upon him, and he could not but believe that he was being followed by Indians. As he called "Whoa" to his team and took a long careful look about, Jim's parting injunction seemed to ring again in his ears. It had been said in a tone of banter, but Walt and tJim both recognized the seriousness beneath the tone. "Better remember your prayers, Walt." Walt stopped as he was about to jump from his wagon and bowed his head a moment. Lifting it again, he shook it, as though to rid himself of his fears, and with a smile and a friendly slap upon his horse's rump, started whistling again as he had not done the last two hours. If Indians were about he would try hard to take care of himself. If 'they were not, he need not make himself miserable by worrying about them.: Cheerfully, then, but with his eyes ever alert for a stump that moved, or listening for an animal cry that didn't fit the locality or the time of evening, or that sounded unnatural or was answered too promptly, Walt made his simple camp. Carefully and almost tenderly, he cared for his team, saw that they did not drink too much, let them eat grain while he gathered an extra large supply of firewood and made his fire, then led them once more to the spring. Instead of hobbling them and turning them loose tonight, he staked them. But he took particular pains to keep his cheerful whistling going and to move with leisurely confidence as though he had not the slightest suspicion of enemies. Then he cooked his frugal supper, made appetizing by the WALT'S LUCK 495 day's hard drive and his own healthy youth. It was dusk now and he fancied once, twice, perhaps that the hooting of owls was just a trifle too frequent, but it seemed so natural and appropriate in this tree-clad hollow with the hills hiding the mountains by their nearness, that he could not be sure. Just once he saw something suspicious out of the corner of his eye. A stump seemed to melt into the tree beside it, as though an Indian had been playing stump and had quietly slipped behind the big tree. The dimness of the light and the flicker of his own cheerful camp fire made Walt uncertain, though a cold drop of water seemed to trickle/up and down his spine, defying the law of gravitation in obeying the law of premonition. His hair prickled, too. He did not whistle after that. But he finished his supper to the last bite, washed his simple dishes, saw that his team were all right and then came back to the fire. It was flaming quite brightly still, and he knew that as the darkness closed about his camp he was by its light revealed more and more clearly to any lurking observers who might covet his team, his freight, or his scalp. That was why he was so careful to keep every motion steady and even the expression of his face calm. If keen and hostile eyes were observing him, he wanted them to get no idea that he was afraid. For the one who was afraid was doomed, if he let his fear be known.: It promised to be quite a warm night, but he took all the bedding he had used on the trip out to keep comfortable in the cold air of the higher mountains, and carried it to a spot near the fire. There he fussed for a long time getting it ready and then sat quietly by the fire until the flames had died and the coals gave out only a faint, soft glow. At last, when he thought sufficient of the slowly dragging minutes had passed without anything happening, he threw some fresh wood upon the fire and moved to his bed. While he had been making it, he had rolled his gun inside a blanket, feeling secure so long as the Indians knew he was awake, and laid it by the bed. Now, before his fresh fuel had time to catch fire, he lay prone beside his bed, rolled one of the quilts into a long bundle under the top cover, to simulate a human form, and grasping gun and blanket, slowly and silently worked his way, snakelike, toward his wagon. Under it he passed, but did not pause, until it was between him and the glow from the fire. Then, he rose to hands and knees and went on cautiously till he reached the nearest thick bush. There with the bush between himself and the fire he paused to look back. The fresh fuel was beginning to blaze. It showed the bed nearby, with an irregular hump down the middle suggesting the recumbent form of a man. A little farther off the wagon showed 496 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE less distinctly, and in the quiet he could hear the peaceful munching of the team. Thus far his plan seemed to have worked well. He was positive that his maneuvers in going to bed, throwing fuel on the fire, and sneaking away before it had time to blaze had been successful in getting him thus far without being observed. He thought from his knowledge of Indians that they would not attack until he had been in bed at least an hour, but his chief difficulty lay ahead. For he had not the slightest knowledge as to where the Indians would be. They might be grouped all together in any direction. They might be all asleep save one who would be watching. Or they might be scattered and creeping slowly upon the camp where he supposedly lay just dropping into the first sound sleep of youth and weariness. Wherever they were, he was as liable to come upon one or ail of them as to miss them. So now he hesitated and tried to guess in which direction they would least likely be. But the uncertainties of the situation were so great that at last he gave up trying to decide and guessed that the next move in the affair must depend upon what his friends called "Walt's Luck." If it were "luck" that had guided him thus far in his adventurous life, he at least carried no symbols of it. No rabbit's foot or swastika or other emblem of "luck" was ever found in his pockets. Instead, now, when his life hung upon the chance of which direction he crept during the next few minutes, he merely bowed his head once more and thought a prayer. Then. He selected a bush a good way up one of the hills that partially surrounded the spring and softly worked his way toward it. Reaching it at last, he breathed another prayer, this time of thankfulness for his having chanced upon no prowling Indian on the way, and throwing the blanket about his shoulders and grasping his gun, he waited?and waited?and waited. The young moon had set before he left the camp fire. The stars were growing brighter. For a long time no movement or sound came to him from his camp. Even the horses ceased their munching, and the blaze from the fire, though still casting a slight glow upon objects about it, had almost died away. The little spring did not give enough water to ripple, and the leaves of the | trees hung motionless in the unstirring air, as though they shared Walt's suspense. He dozed once, and quickly roused himself with a vigorous shake of the head and a few silent deeply drawn breaths. Was he to slumber peacefully here while the Indians robbed his wagon of its precious cargo and drove off his team? His bitter anger with himself for the momentary lapse roused him to alertness. Again time passed, and at last he became aware of a skulking WALT'S LUCK 497 form beyond the vague glow of his camp fire. He stared at it intently. It moved. An Indian! "I thought so!" he whispered to himself as though he had been hoping that Indians were about. At least it proved that his suspicions and precautions were not entirely unnecessary and foolish. Now Walt could distinguish the upraised tomahawk beyond the fire's dim glow as the Indian crept toward the still form in the bed. He was torn between a shudder of horror and a strong desire to laugh aloud. He discerned another Indian not far behind the first and then another. Then the tomahawk was raised higher and descended where Walt's head appeared to be. At the signal a horde of voices let out the triumphant war cry and a group of tall forms leaped erect about the fire and the bed. Instantly silence descended. One of the Indians had thrown some wood upon the fire as he yelled, and in the strange quiet the one who had wielded the tomahawk tore the bed apart as the little flames began licking upward. The silence was broken by a word of command from the leader and several ran hastily to the wagon and looked under it, and in it. Walt could not suppress a slight chuckle as their postures revealed to him by the increasing glow of the fire the bewildered amazement his ruse stirred in their hearts, and the alarm which was steadily growing into terror as they failed to find their prey and realized that it was hidden somewhere about and might at any moment fire upon them. He sobered instantly at the thought of what would happen to him if they forced him to reveal his position by firing, then smiled again, remembering his emotions during the evening as he had felt their eyes upon him and could not see them, and knowing just how their spines must be creeping now in the knowledge that any one of them might be the victim of his first shot. They knew he had the drop on them. But he knew that would avail very little if he fired, for he counted cleven of them as they passed between him and the blaze and could not possibly kill them all before some of them found him. And if he shot just one, the rest would then be botund to seek revenge. He told himself grimly that "Brother Brigham" was certainly right when he taught that it was "cheaper to feed the Indians than to fight them," but he was still resolved not to let them rob him without offering any resistance. He saw one of them suggest that they scatter and search for him. Others refused. Their quick nervous glances into the darkness grew increasingly fearful and they drew closer together and farther from the fire. Another urged that they take the horses, another that they filch what they chose from the wagon. 498 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Then one who seemed to be the leader held up his hand for attention, uttered a few brief commands, pointed to the one who had suggested robbing the wagon and pantomimed his doing it and falling back dead from an unseen bullet. They were all impressed and silent at that. Then a terse command came from his lips and they accepted it. So vivid was the pantomime that Walt understood the arguments as though he had heard every word in his own tongue. Suddenly the Indians melted into the darkness empty-handed. And Walt told himself that if he understood Indian nature, he had by his trick won their respect and admiration and was safe from them for the rest of the night and the next day, though he should meet them face to face. He had made them afraid and the Indian did not as a rule rob or murder the man who had made him afraid. Still, he did not go back to his camp nor allow himself to take more than brief snatches of sleep until the morning star had faded. Then he investigated. The quilt he had rolled and the one spread over it were both torn by the sharp blade of the tomahawk but otherwise nothing was injured. He cared for his team, ate a hasty breakfast, and sleepy, but triumphant and deeply grateful, he drove on and overtook Pete and Dick just before nightfall. That night Walt slept so long and so soundly that Hansen laughingly declared a squaw could have scalped him and he'd never have known it. Harvest Moon By Virgina C. Jordan O big, white, harvest moon, Hung in the pink, mauve sky, Over the uneven purple hills With fleece clouds floating by? Why wait so serenely there In the sunset's evening glow? Do you wait for the greater light to pass, That your own silvery beams may show? Ah listen, methinks I hear you say To the foolish one: "Not so; I am placed here by a Mighty Power, And His will is the only law I know." Notes from the Field Lyman Stake. In the July issue of the Relief Society Magazine, under Notes from the Field, a most interesting account of a flower show, and other enterprises showing fine public spirit, appeared under the head of Woodruff Stake. This should have been reported from Lyman Stake. These two stakes are closely associated, and are both to be congratulated upon the fine spirit of the work they do. It is always regrettable when an error in the report is made, and we are most anxious to call attention to this one and to give to every stake the credit and recognition due for its fine achievements. In addition to the flower show and the other enterprises recorded, there was also, in the Lyman Stake exhibit a fine display of what Relief Society women may accomplish during the hours of their Work and Business Meeting. Accounts of all Relief Society activities are most welcome, and are given attention in the office as nearly as possible in the order in which they are received. IN MEMORIAM During the past year, in many of the Latter-day Saint communities, the passing of some of our older and best beloved Relief Society sisters is noted. In reading the accounts of the lives of these wonderful women, we find an explanation of why the Latter-day Saints as a people have been so successful as colonizers and community builders. The companionship and helpfulness such as these women display make it impossible for men not to succeed. One of the great political thinkers of this age has said if we would know the political and moral condition of a state, we must ask what rank women hold in it. Their influence embraces the whole of life. Of the three noble sisters whom we shall mention, we feel that we could say they have what Shakespeare said should attend old age?"honor, love, obedience, and troops of friends." Annie Heiselt Otteson was born in Pleasant Grove, Utah, April 15, 1861. The state was still in its pioneer days, but Annie availed herself of the opportunities given to attend school in her home town. She was married December 28, 1877, to James Otteson. About three years later, in response to a call made by the leaders of the Church, she, with her husband and parents, left their Utah home and went to Colorado to assist in colonizing the San Luis valley. At this time Sister Otteson had a baby 500 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE only ten days old, and the journey from Pleasant Grove to San Luis took six weeks. In entering the new field of pioneer life there were great responsibilities, serious problems, often so grave as to be almost a matter of life and death, but this brave sister, true to the spirit of her people, faced these conditions with a determination to adjust to anything that might arise, and make the best of every situation. Many of her early ambitions had to be sacrificed because of the times, and the environment in which her life was cast. Sister Otteson was for many years a most active worker in the Relief Society organization. True to the spirit of that work, she was ever present in the home where sorrow entered, and ever ready to give the comfort and assistance required. One of the Bishops said of her, "She is a ministering angel, her presence always where it is most needed, and what she is doing on earth is but a beginning of her work in the hereafter." While her children were still young her husband accepted a call to fulfil a mission in Europe. From this experience he returned an invalid, never to regain his health. In August, 1896, Sister Otteson was left a widow. Her faith in God's goodness was unshaken, and she patiently assumed the double responsibility which had come to her. Her children, as well as the people of her community, will remember her as one who ministered among the sick, and helped many sufferers to find relief. During the latter years of her life she did not enjoy good health, and a very beautiful testimony of what her earlier life must have been, especially with her children, was found in the way she was regarded by them. Her sons and her daughters felt it the greatest privilege to minister to her during the last years of her life. The close of her life came in the place she had colonized and helped to build. Beautiful and impressive funeral services were held in the Sanford ward of the San Luis Stake, on July 25, 1928. Elizabeth Susan Brunt: Nearly forty years in Relief Society work is the line which challenges the eye in the little sketch sent into the office in reference to Sister Brunt. She was born on April 30, 1854, in London. When six years of age her family moved to an English colony in New Zealand, where Elizabeth was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, at the age of eight years. In 1870 she was married to George Brunt. About ten years later, she,-in company with her four small children, preceded her husband to the United States, and she settled in Farmington, Utah. Some years later her husband joined her and the family moved to Eagle Rock, Idaho, now known as Idaho Falls. Mr. Brunt died a year later. The double responsibility of widowhood and motherhood now rested upon Sister Brunt. The call to both heavy duties was most cheerfully NOTES FROM THE FIELD 501 met. Having been active in Church work from the time she was a girl, it was a part of her life, and in response to one of the outstanding characteristics of her nature, to continue her service. Her first office in the Relief Society was that of secretary. This office was held soon after the first organization in Idaho was perfected. Later she was chosen as secretary of the stake Relief Society when the Idaho Falls Stake was organized. Her further service in the Relief Society was in the capacity of both first and second counselor in the stake organization. During Sister Brunt's residence in Salt Lake, which covered a period of some years, she was actively engaged in temple work. Some years before her death she had the rare privilege of again visiting her home in New Zealand. The object of this visit, in addition to renewing the memories and joys of the past, was to do missionary service for the Church, which was ever so dear to her. The last three years of her life were spent in her old home in Idaho Falls, where she had lived most of the time for over forty years, and where her children had been reared. The end came very quietly and peacefully to Sister Brunt on February 14, 1929, Emily C. Brooks: On February 10, 1929, Mrs. Emily C. Brooks died at her home in St. George, Utah. In her passing and in the review of her life, we are reminded that few women have such an enviable record. First in her life's accomplishments is her splendid family of twelve children, all intelligent useful citizens and enthusiastic Church workers. Only one?a daughter ?has preceded her into Eternity. Sister Brooks' motherly heart included not only her own family, but those of the whole community, for she has served as counselor, ward president, stake president and board member for a period of thirty years. Her record for public service is seldom equalled. During the World War, her strenuous work in the Red Cross Chapter, added to the strain of having three boys in the service, caused a nervous breakdown, from the effects of which she never fully recovered. All her public work was done without the neglect of a single home duty, for her home was always first in her heart?a haven of refuge for her family and friends. By her sweetness and gentleness she endeared herself to all her associates, and has left a lasting memory among her friends. Her peaceful death closed the record of a wonderful life. Leone E. McCune is the author of "The Pioneers" which appeared in the Relief Society Magazine, July, 1929, page 395. It is regretted that her name did not appear with the poem, as its author. Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) BOOK OF MORMON Lesson 2. The American Bible 1. Assignment: This lesson covers the Book of Mormon from page 36 to page 70. It includes the matter from First Nephi, Chapter 16, to Second Nephi, Chapter 5. It is a mechanical, not a logical, unit, and this fact must be kept in mind as the lesson is read. 2. Preponderance of Explanation: Also it must be kept in mind that the backbone of the Book of Mormon is the narrative and that its teachings are insets, if we may so speak. It is probably true, however, that the main thing in the minds of its various writers is, not to tell a story, but rather to expound some ideas. Still it is helpful to keep this broad distinction constantly before us. The proportion of what goes on and what is explained is not hard to estimate in these two lessons. They cover seventy pages. The story covers about twelve years in time and includes the leaving Jerusalem, the two trips to the city for the Brass Plates and Ishmael's family, the journey through the wilderness, the voyage across the sea, and the landing?possibly ten or fifteen pages out of the seventy. As for the rest?about fifty-five to sixty pages?we have the visions to Lehi, those to Nephi, the admonitions of the patriarch to his sons, and the counsel of Nephi to his brothers, in explanation of his father's words. Of course, we must place the same emphasis on the ideas as Nephi intended. And this is characteristic of all the writers of the Book of Mormon?which indicates what they had in mind when they wrote. 3. Preview: In Lesson I we left the Lehites "in tents in the Valley of Lemuel." We don't know, of course, where that is, and it doesn't matter. In the present lesson, they leave this place, continue their travels till they reach the sea, build there a ship, embark and cross the ocean, and land in what is now America. We do not even know where they landed. And that does not matter, either. The doctrinal part begins with the "hard 'things" that Nephi had said to his brothers, and goes on to quote from the GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 503 prophet Zenos, of whom we know nothing from any other source, and from the prophet Isaiah (two chapters), a disquisition on the House of Israel by Nephi, and'an exhortation by Lehi to his sons, together with some comments by the youngest son. Following is a brief outline of the entire lesson: I. Narrative. 1. Travels in the Wilderness. (a) Nephi breaks his bow. (b) What they ate. (c) They build a ship under difficulties. (d) They embark. 2. The Voyage and Landing. (a) Incidents en route. (b) Probable conditions of the voyage. (c) The landing. - II. Ideas. 1. From Zenos?prophecies concerning Christ. 2. From Isaiah?words "to the remnant of the House of Israel." 3. From Nephi?explanation to 'his brethren of the words of Zenos and Isaiah. 4, From Lehi?address to (a) His older sons. (b) Jacob. (c) Joseph. 4. An American Bible: The Book of Mormon has often been called the "Mormon" Bible, chiefly in scorn and derision. It is not, of course, our Bible in the sense in which it is intended by that term. For the Latter-day Saints do not have a Bible of their own at all. If they did, it would be rather the "Doctrine and Covenants." A Bible, as the word has come to be used, means a collection of sacred literature. And in this sense the Book of Mormon is a bible. But it is in reality the American Bible, just as the Hebrew Scriptures is the European Bible. For it bears the same relation to the New World that the Jewish volume does to the Old World. And for that matter, it is just as valuable a collection, viewed from the standpoint of its teachings. Most people, in truth, have a mistaken notion of the term "bible" as applied to the sacred writings of the Hebrew people. While it is a collection of books, a library in fact, it does not contain all the sacred writings of the Jews. The Book of Zenos, mentioned by Nephi, who quotes from it, is not in that volume. And there are many others. Besides, it never was intended by anyone, except indeed by some wrong-headed Christians of the early centuries, that the "canon of scripture" should at any time 504 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be "full." For, as a matter of fact, God has the right, whenever He pleases, to reveal His will to man, and, if that be set down in writing, it becomes "scripture," and in a sense part of a "bible." The Book of Mormon thus becomes a "'bible" not only, nor indeed the American Bible distinctively, but the only collection of ancient American writings known to us, and therefore all the more valuable. Of course, we know that it does not contain all the literature of the Nephites, nor even all the religious writings of the Nephites. It contains rather what its authors, if they knew the word, would call the quintessence of the word of God to the ancient inhabitants of the Americas. 5. The Point of Origin: Another thing of no small interest in connection with the Book of Mormon is its origin as compared with that of other sacred books. Of that origin we shall have something to say later on in this course, but this point of source must be mentioned casually here. Four peoples of the world have sacred writings, not counting the Latter-day Saints. They are the Chinese, the East Indians, the Arabians, and the Hebrews. And these sacred writings may be termed bibles. The Chinese Bible was written by the disciples of Confucius. Confucius, born in 551 B. C., was of a distinguished family', became a public teacher in his early manhood, later held positions in the government of China, but in his old age wandered from state to state, puzzled as to why his teachings were generajly rejected by the potentates. "No sooner was he dead, however, than his wisdom was recognized by peasant and emperor alike; admiration rose to veneration, veneration to worship. Sacrifices were offered to him, temples built in his honor, and a cult established which has lasted almost two thousand years." His disciples of about the fourth century, B. C., set down what they could remember of his sayings, "making free use of the written memorials concerning him, which they had received, and the oral statements which they had heard, from their several masters." "The Hindu Bible centers in Gautama, or Buddha, the "Awakened." Born a warrior prince about the middle of the sixth century B. C., he renounced his wife and child and possessions to give himself up to asceticism and concentration of thought. After years of disappointment, self-discipline, and failure, he one day became suddenly "illumined" and saw the Great Truths. He too wandered about from place to place preaching his new creed, with extraordinary results. H. G. Wells calls Gautama "one of the most penetrating intelligences the world has ever known," and comments sarcastically on the anxiety of his later disciples for the preservation of the tree under which their master saw his "vision of the way" instead of preserving the thoughts which GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 505 he received under the tree. His teachings have been summarized under eight heads?right views, right aspirations, right speech, right conduct, right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, and right rapture. Among the Moslems in Arabia the "Koran" holds the same place that Hebrew Scriptures do among Christians. It contains the revelations to Mohammed written down by his followers mostly after the prophet's death. Some of these, it is claimed, were given him while he was in a trance; others in the form of pages or scrolls, which he was to read by the "grace of God." The central idea in Mohammedanism is, that "there is but one God, and Mohammed is his prophet." The Hebrew Bible is too well known to need extended mention. It is sufficient to remark that it was written by some forty different men and contains almost every form of literature?stories, orations, drama, and so on. The Book of Mormon is the work chiefly of two men? Nephi the First and Mormon. Joseph Smith was merely its translator. The entire volume was revealed to the Prophet by an angel of the Lord, the original plates having been given back to the heavenly messenger when the translation was finished. 6. Some Comparisons: (a) The Book of Mormon is the only one of the five sacred books that was given intact at one time to man; (b) it is the only one in which an angel was concerned in the book as a 'whole; (c) in it the religious element is more pronounced than in any of the others, not excepting the Hebrew Scriptures; (d) there is greater unity in it than in any of the others; (e) as compared with the Hebrew Bible, its translation can be more depended upon, for the reason that that translation was done "by the power of God"; (f) and as compared with the others, the work comes to us direct, instead of through the memory of disciples. A quotation from each may be helpful, though inadequate, in showing the spirit and style of these Bibles: Confucius?Love makes a spot beautiful: who chooses not to dwell in love, has he got wisdom? Loveless men cannot bear need long, they cannot bear fortune long. Loving hearts find peace in love; clever heads find profit in it. Buddha?There are three conditions under which deeds are produced. And what are the three? Freedom from covetousness is a condition under which deeds are produced; freedom from hatred is a condition under which deeds are produced; freedom from infatuation is a condition under which deeds are produced. Mohammed?Oh, you who believe! If you obey those who disbelieve, they will turn you back upon your heels, so you will turn back losers, Allah is your Patron, and He is the best of helpers, 506 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Book of Mormon?It is better that one man should perish, than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief. Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy. The things which some men esteem to be of great worth, to the body and soul, others set at naught and trample under their feet. Questions 1. Give the story part of this lesson. 2. Tell the substance of what Zenos gives concerning Christ. 3. The word "prophet" has two meanings?to foretell and to see into truth. Show how*Lehi stands for these two meanings; how Nephi does. 4. Show (a) that the Book of Mormon is not our bible; (b) that it is a bible, and (c) that it is the American Bible. 5. What are some main differences between the Book of Mormon and the other sacred writings mentioned? 6. Of the various quotations given, which strikes you (a) as the best thought? (b) as the best "Phrasing? LESSON IT Work and Business TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR NOVEMBER (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in November) OBEDIENCE I. Obedience to a. Parents b. The Laws c. God is the outstanding need of today. "We believe in being subjects to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law."?Twelfth Article of Faith. IT, Training in Obedience Should Begin in the Home. "These early years from birth to seven years old are the most important ones in the child's whole life, for in them is laid the basis, physical and moral, of what the future man is to be." "We must begin not with the adults whose habits and GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 507 ideals are set, but with children who are still plastic. We must begin with the children in the home, the street, and the playground."?Charles W. Eliot. "To guide first steps rightly is better than to alter false steps later." "Early years are the habit forming years." Nature of Obedience. A. Blind obedience. 1. Sometimes necessary on part of very young children because of inability to understand. 2. Sometimes necessary to God for same reason. Easy when necessary because of confidence in parents and in the Lord. B. Reasoned Obedience. "One of the chief services which the Master has rendered His followers is to redeem obedience from forbidding severity and to make it a glad and winsome loyalty. He has said, not 'Go! Obey!' but 'Come! Follow me!' " "The will should not be repressed, but stimulated and guided." "Child nature is not to be crushed, but directed and approved." "Parents should never drive their children, but lead them along, giving them knowledge as their minds are prepared to receive it. Chastening may be necessary betimes, but parents should govern their children by faith rather than by the rod, leading them kindly by good example into all truth and holiness."??-Discourses of Brigham Young, page 323. "Teach the people truth, teach them correct principles; show them what is for their greatest good, and don't you think they will follow in that path?'?Discourses of Brigham Young, page 348. "All that the Lord requires of us is strict obedience to the laws of life."?Discourses of Brigham Young, p. 348. "Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson? "That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers oi heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control, or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the 508 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood, or the authority of that man * * * "No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the Priesthood, only by persuasion, by long suffering, by gentleness, and meekness, and by love unfeigned; by kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile, reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death."?Doctrine and Covenants, Section 121:34-44). IV. Obedience is founded on law and knowledge and responsibility. A. Without law?physical and spiritual?reasoned conduct would be impossible. "Know the truth and the truth shall make ye free." b. Obedience founded on knowledge. We obey the doctor, our parents, etc., because of their superior knowledge. C. Obedience based on affection. The true foundation for obedience is the desire for the well-being of him who obeys. The desire for obedience based on affection only is usually selfish and should rarely be indulged. V. Understanding. True obedience aims at rendering the obedient free, independent, self-directing observers of the law?physical, legal, and spiritual. All other kinds of obedience are temporary and futile. Forced obedience is not constructive; it does not lead to character building. Obedience is a positive power in life and is essential in the building of a noble character. BIOGRAPHIES FOR LITERARY LESSONS Biographies to be studied in the 1929-30 Literary Lessons may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, at the following prices, postpaid: Karl G. Maeser, $1.50; The Girl in White Armor, $2.50; An American Idyll, $1.75; A Son of the Middle Border, $2.50; The Lost Commander, $3.00; Joaquin Miller, $1.75; Schumann-Heink, $5.00; Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson, $4.00. (See also note at bottom of page 512.) GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 509 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in November) THE GIRL IN WHITE ARMOR By Albert Bigelow Paine Albert Bigelow Paine, author and editor, was born in New Bedford, Mass., July 10, 1861. He is a former editor of St. Nicholas and is a member of a number of exclusive literary clubs. Since 1893 he has been publishing essays, poems, and biographies rather steadily. Chief among his published biographies are "A Boy's Life of Mark Twain," "Mark Twain, a Biography," "A Short Life of Mark Twain," "Joan of Arc?Maid of France," in 1925, and "The Girl in White Armor," 1927. He was decorated Chevalier Legion of Honor (France) 1928. His home is in West Redding, Conn.?Facts from "Who's Who." Among the best known, the most revered, the most mystical characters of truth and fiction, that of Joan of Arc, the girl in white armor, will always stand preeminent. Cold scientists may scoff, unbelievers may howl, and the sophisticated may smile scornfully, but the Maid of Orleans stands calmly unmindful of them all. What she did is on record. Her deeds speak for her. In "The Girl in White Armor, the True Story of Joan of Arc," Albert Bigelow Paine has caused the maid to live once more, to walk through even this modern world, declaring that voices can reach through from the Unknown country and that they do have power to predict and save. We may marvel, we may doubt, but the cold facts remain. This girl of seventeen did follow the Voices, did save France, did crown her king. But shame and pity of it all, she did burn at the stake in the presence and with the sanction of the very people she had saved. In this volume of 312 pages, published by The Macmillan Company, Mr. Paine has drawn a picture of the Maid of Orleans that is as interesting as fiction. The book reads like a novel and yet rings true. Of course, in so brief an account of the Maid's activities, the entire picture of her times cannot be given; but enough can be shown to reveal the girl in her beauty and power, and her contemporaries in their loyalty and their wickedness. Beginning with an account of the Tree which played such an important part in the early life of Joan and in her miserable trial, Mr. Paine follows the story through all the great events of 1429, 1430, and 1431. In a concluding chapter he gives us 510 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a travelogue through France, following the footsteps of the youthful French martyr. The story is incredible. Were it not vouched for and were it not based in every particular upon records that cannot be impeached, one would be inclined to doubt. For who, without weighty evidence, could believe that a maid born and reared in humble circumstances at Domremy, far from the centers of population of her country, could at the age of seventeen go before men trained in war and induce them to turn armies over to her command and in addition to follow her to hopeless battle? Who could believe that she could go before her exiled king and make him believe that she had heard the King of Heaven declare that he was to be crowned at Reims? And then, who could believe that she could endure hardship, face powerful enemies, drive out the alien English armies and free the cities according to her prediction? Last of all, who could believe that after anyone had done all this that the king whom she had crowned, the soldiers she had led, the poor she had comforted, the country she had saved, could be so ungrateful as to allow the friendless girl to be inhumanly imprisoned in terrible dungeons, heartlessly treated by the scum of the earth, and at last burned at the stake as a common witch? Yet, it is all true. The records made at the time prove it to the everlasting shame of France, England, and humanity in general. Albert Bigelow Paine, a gifted biographer and writer, has gone over the trail Joan made from her little village home, Domremy, through all the country round about to Rouen, where the maid yielded up her life. He has been in the towers where she slept and has visited the dungeons in which she was imprisoned, and through his gift of writing has given to the world another biography of the girl who has since been sainted and holds a sacred place in the hearts of all those who love romance and high spiritual achievement. In a straightforward manner Mr. Paine has recounted the high lights of the great story. With deft pen strokes he has pictured the essential acts in one of the unique dramas enacted upon the human stage. Cleverly he has woven in at strategic points in the narrative the exact words of various characters as they have been preserved in official records and personal diaries for these five hundred years. In so doing he has made his narrative less graceful than it might otherwise have been but infinitely stronger and more interesting. Touches like the following make the book unusual: "So we complete the picture of the little peasant girl: diligent, tender-hearted, devout; requiring duty of the bell-ringer, offering reward if he performed it; mingling with her companions yet GUIDE LESSONS OR NOVEMBER 511 finding alone a companionship they could not understand. Said one of these: ""Often while we were at play, Jeannette (Joan) drew apart and spoke to God. The others and myself teased her about it.' "Certainly she was different. Her priest of that time declared that there was not her like in the village." The picture Mr. Paine paints of the young girl struggling tu gain an audience with de Baudricourt and of the loyalty of Durand Laxart is one which cannot but impress all readers. That the biographer believed in "The Voices" as firmly as did Joan herself, there can be no doubt. Laxart, it seems, believed fully in the girl. Of him Paine says, "The nation of France owes a debt of gratitude to Durand Laxart." It seems to me that Jean de Metz and Bertrand de Poulengy should also share in whatever debt of gratitude is due the "honest Laxart," for had it not been for "those two high-hearted soldiers of fortune" the maid might have had more difficulty in reaching the king. The picture we have of the king, Charles VII, can hardly do other than fill us with disgust, although we must with our imagination attempt to reproduce the situation in order to be just to all. Were a girl seventeen years of age to come to one of our leaders at present with a tale as fantastic as that which Joan told, perhaps she would be received in no better manner. Had the king reached out his hand to save her or even to attempt to save her during that last trial we might have forgiven him al! Else. As it is, he must remain one of the most despised and despicable among men, sharing only with Cauchon, the Bishop of Bauvis. The combined censure of humanity. Joan was at her zenith when she entered Orleans. The girl in white armor with her sword of the cross carrying her great banner is the picture of her we all like best, perhaps, for at that time only did she have the undivided support and faith of her followers. Her power to foretell and her power to lead are both emphasized by Mr. Paine, who evidently believes that Joan was possessed of supernatural knowledge. His narrative taken from the records would seem to indicate that according to the well known test of a prophet, the maid was a prophet indeed; for time and time again did she reiterate her prophecies, and time and time again were they fulfilled to the letter. As we read, we are likely to wonder, if the Voices could direct her and could rout the armies of the English, why they could not save her from the awful fate she suffered; and thus one comes up against the mystery of life and its relationships. Why, we might ask in the same breath, was Christ allowed to be crucified and Joseph Smith to be shot? In fact, the same 512 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE question might be asked concerning all the martyrs since the world began. The details of Joan's imprisonment and trial are horrifying; but that they are true, there is no doubt. That is perhaps why in his foreword the author says, "The story of Joan of Arc is hardly a tale for young children, and, strictly speaking, this is not a children's book." Mr. Paine, however, relieves the narrative by constantly referring to the "Voices" which, no doubt, were a comfort to the beset girl. If there is in fiction a more terrible picture than that of Cauchon's "Beau Proces," as the trial of Joan was called, then I have not come upon it in my reading, Chapter Twenty, "Afterward," which tells the story of 'What came to Cauchon and Others," rather satisfies those of Mr. Paine's readers who have not quite reached the full stature of a Christian. Most readers, no doubt, subscribe sufficiently to the old Mosaic code to enjoy this working out of justice. Members of the class would, no doubt, enjoy Mark Twain's "Joan of Arc" and De Quincey's essay. Since in this year the world is celebrating the five hundredth anniversary of the great deeds of Joan of Arc, class leaders and teachers should have little difficulty in finding plenty of material about the Maid of Orleans. "The Girl in White Armor," however, is the work under consideration. Questions and Problems 1. Why is Albert Bigelow Paine well prepared to write a short biography of Joan of Arc, like "The Girl in White Armor''? Can you give reasons why Joan of Arc is worthy of world acquaintanceship? 3. What qualities make this book especially readable? 4. Can you see why such a girl as Joan of Arc should inspire many works of art in sculpture, painting, story, biography, etc? 5. Read De Quincey's essay on Joan of Arc. Note the tone of the piece. It can be found in De Quincey's Essays or a part of it can be found in Twelve Centuries of English Poetry and Prose. 6. Find what you can regarding Cauchon, Bishop of Bauvis. An American Idyll is not out of print as the August number of the Magazine stated. However, Noon, scheduled to appear in the January, 1930 issue of the Magazine, is out of print, but the lesson outlines on the other eight biographies (listed in August, page 453, and in September, with prices, page 508) will be arranged to cover the nine months' course. GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 513 JOAN OF ARC?SKETCH OF HER LIFE Albert Bigelow Paine begins his narrative of the life of 'Joan of Arc by telling of a great beech tree which overlooked the valley of the Meuse which was variously called 'Ladies' Lodge" and "Fairy Tree," because, according to tradition, the ladies of fairyland sometimes danced there. Around this great tree Joan, or Jeannette, as Joan was named, also danced there with the children of her time who hung garlands for the fairies on the tree. Joan of Arc was born January 6, 1412, in Domremy. Her parents were Jacques d'Arc and Isabelle Romee. Isabelle Romee was a devout Catholic and taught her little girl of her religion and told her stories of the saints. Joan grew to be a saintly little creature. One of her companions declared, "Often while we were at play, Jeannette drew apart and spoke to God." On August 17, 1424, news came to the village that the French army had suffered another defeat at the Battle of Verneuil. Shortly thereafter (she was then thirteen) Joan received "the first word of the work she was to do." "On a summer day," Mr. Paine says, at the hour of noon, in her father's garden, she saw toward the church a great light, and heard a Voice. * * * The Voice came from the direction of the light, 'a worthy Voice,' full of dignity. She was told to be a good child, that God would help her, and that she would go to the rescue of the King. And the angel spoke to her of "the pity (the sorrow) that was of the Kingdom of France." Telling of it later Joan said that she knew the Voice to be that of a celestial being?Saint Michael. She also saw a figure, accompanied by angels. She once spoke of their appearance at the spring below the Fairy Tree. Probably on that account the tree was mentioned frequently in her trial. Her visitants (she had them frequently) finally told her that she had been selected to save France, to crown the King and give him back his kingdom. "To the Saints Joan pledged her maidenhood 'for so long as it pleased God'; that is, until her mission was ended." On October 12, 1428, the siege of Orleans, a key city of France, was begun by the English. Joan could stand it no longer. Her Voices must be obeyed. She finally persuaded Durand Laxart, an uncle, to take her to Robert de Baudricourt, a powerful captain. She told de Baudricourt to tell the Dauphin to hang on and not to cease the war; that he would be made King and that she would conduct him to his coronation. "Who is your Lord?" de Baudricourt demanded. "The King of Heaven," was Joan's simple reply. De Baudricourt, unimpressed, told her to go home. Bertrand 514. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE de Poulengy, however, was impressed by her. Jean de Metz met her soon afterward and was so impressed that he said, "To thee, Joan, I, Jean de Novelompont, called Jean de Metz, pledge my knightly faith, and promise thee, God aiding, that I will conduct thee to the King." It was these two gallants de Poulengy and de Metz, who finally took the peasant girl to the King. The King received her hesitatingly, but soon she was placed at the head of an army that marched upon Orleans and saved it. The city joined in a great procession in honor of the Maid of Orleans. Later she joined in other campaigns, but she was at her height at Orleans. On July 17, 1429, five hundred years ago, Charles VII was crowned King of France in the cathedral at Reims, the same cathedral which figured in the World War. From this point Joan's star began to set. She was soon doubted, wounded, and at last captured by the English who had threatened her many times with a fiery death. She was held in captivity for weeks. At last, however, she was brought to trial before sixty judges in Rouen. Cauchon, Bishop of Beauvais, had charge. After days of trial and struggle, Joan was condemned and burned at the stake May 30, 1431. Later in the day her executioner said to friends: "I shall never be saved, for I have burned a holy woman." A churchman said, "Would God my soul were where I believe the soul of that woman to be."
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November)
LESSON 17. CHANGES IN THE COURSES OF STUDY AND THE METHODS OF TEACHING IN THE SCHOOLS
(Based on Chapters 18 and 19 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs)
In the last lesson we discussed the changing objectives of American schools. In this lesson?which, it will be noted, covers two chapters in the book?we consider the changes that are taking place in the courses of study and the methods of teaching in the public schools of today. In the next lesson, which will be the last in The Child: His Nature and His Needs, we shall attempt to sum up and bring together the main points of the entire eighteen lessons.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER
As announced last month, the six lessons for January to June inclusive will survey The Field of Social Work. There will be no book required for this set of lessons; the outlines, however, will contain references to appropriate readings.
A. The Changing Course of Study
In comparison with European schools it is correct to conclude with the author of this chapter, that American schools are, in general, much more modern and less bound by tradition. Yet from the standpoint of the profound changes which are taking place in American social and economic life today, our schools are backward; they are changing their courses of study and their methods of teaching with painful slowness. In fact, this situation is the basis of a major criticism of American schools today. The truth, therefore, lies somewhere between these two extreme comments.
In some enlightened places, the schools are progressively adapting their efforts to the preparation of the child for the life he is probably going to live. These experiments have great significance and are being observed with a critical eye by school people generally. Many innovations, however, have been introduced under the guise of careful experimentation, and presumably after careful thought, but which turn out to be nothing more than spurious ways of "jazzing up" the curriculum. Who will not recognize the tendency?possibly in one's own community, so aptly described by a writer in the August, 1929, Century* as follows:
"Walk past a typical high-school building * * * Choose any hour of the day. * * * The broad demesne of this establishment is filled with the fleeting forms of children. The welkin rings with their shouts. The school band is discording a cheap march. Boys in decorated B. V. D.'s are batting balls * * Others in khaki and brass buttons are shouldering guns, beating drums and blowing bugles. On the other side of the grounds the girls are doing much the same thing * * * boys are applying wrenches to auto frames. Others are hammering the tops of cooky-boxes * * * yet more are feeding a hungry printing-press with good white paper that will soon whirl out covered with juvenile wise-cracks. Across from the tin-shop a group is preparing the musical program for the next 'pep' meeting that is to inspire the gladiators of Webster in their struggle with Longfellow. In the library, the executive committee of the Webster Parent-Teachers' Association is meeting to determine whether to put on a carnival or a minstrel-show to raise money for a new stage curtain. The library is closed to the few earnest students who have mistakenly believed that it is a place for books and study * * *,"
516 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Genuine change, born of need and a careful analysis of the situation, is a much coveted thing in education. But the introduction of change merely for the sake of change is distinctly hazardous. The author has wisely emphasized the utilitarian principle now gaining currency in American education, that the school must prepare the child for actual life. However, let us see to just what extent this is true of education as we know it.
Take, in the first place, the matter of vocational education. Do our schools really prepare children for some vocation or other? True, we have some agriculture, some business courses and a little home-making in the high-school curriculum, but who would contend that this is a satisfactory, well-integrated scheme of vocational education? Furthermore, how much vocational guidance is offered the average secondary-school pupil? These same questions might be raised in regard to character education.
Take also the question of education for parenthood, more specially for motherhood. The traditional courses in hygiene, home-making, etc., are offered, to be sure, but does the high-school girl-graduate learn anything about home-nursing, children's diseases, mental hygiene of childhood, sex education, etc.?
Finally, we might mention the increasing importance of preparing children for the intelligent use of their leisure time. What, for instance, does the average public school do by way of systematically cultivating avocational habits and interests in its pupils? It does something, of course, but rarely does it do anything explicitly in this direction.
Of course, the vision of the "what to do" in education is obviously clearer than our understanding of the "how to do it." Most school people and boards of education would readily assent to these needs, but very few have the vision, the courage, the preparation or the financial backing to enable them to do what seems indicated.
Other Questions
1. What specific courses are offered to your children in the public schools that were not available in your day (or vice versa)? Is this difference an improvement? Why or why not?
2. How valid is the criticism that "we (in the U. S.) do not train our pupils to be students or scholars; we merely entertain them with a great variety of knowledge?"
3. Who determines the courses of study for the school children in your community? Are the wishes and opinions of parents ever consulted on such matters? Should they be? Explain.
*"What Makes Teachers Cranky?" by One of Them, August, 1929, Century, page 469.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 517
4. What constructive criticisms can you offer regarding the courses of study in the public schools of your community?
B. The New Methods of Teaching
Perhaps the most striking difference between the schools of today and those of a generation ago is the freedom and informality of present-day education. The over-strict discipline of a former day has gone. Nowadays, the child is encouraged to express rather than to repress his individuality in the class-room. The old problem of discipline, for instance, is easily dealt with in the modern school, not by threats of punishment, however, but by interesting the pupil. New skills are also achieved by new methods. For example, equal emphasis is placed on the silent as well as the oral reading ability of the child. Alongside memory training, the ability to think, to evaluate and to solve problems is emphasized. Moreover, children in the modern school not only read about a subject?such as history, for example?but they learn with the aid of projects involving music, dramatics, literature, etc. The schools of today are also well-equipped with laboratories, museums, maps, etc., all of which increase the efficiency of the learning process in general.
To some extent?although not as much as they should?children participate in their own management. Here the rudiments of citizenship can be taught and the art of living together learned in a dynamic way. The spirit and characteristic of the modern school is activity. The old "sit-still" education is happily passing. The good teacher knows that activity is synonymous with life and growth; that inactivity is mental and physical death, so to speak. The formal subjects such as grammar and arithmetic are nowadays made dynamic by the new methods in education which make free use of the play and competitive element. Occasionally there will also be found the school which makes discriminating use of those revolutionizing devices, the movie and the radio, in order to vitalize the subjects taught. During the last school year, for instance, many eastern school systems equipped their buildings with receiving sets so that the children might learn?direct from that great artist, Walter Damrosch, conductor of the New York Symphony Orchestra?the elements of music and music appreciation.
To know how to use these newer devices, and to be able to choose wisely from among the many psychological and mechanical aids to teaching which are clamoring for adoption, demands more intelligence, education and training on the part of the teacher than ever before. For this and other valid reasons, only competent well-paid teachers should be in charge of the schools of today.
518 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Other Questions
1. What are the usual criticisms of American educational methods?
2. What is the Montessori method?
3. Do the schools in your community make any use of the moving-picture or the radio in conjunction with the teaching process?
4. To what extent do the pupils in your schools participate in self-government?
5. What constructive criticisms can you offer of the educational methods employed in the schools of your community?
Uncontrollable Curiosity By Owen Woodruff Bunker
I've ransacked every nick an' nook To find that darned old doctor book My Ma an' Pa gits down at night T' read aroun' the kitchen light.
I jist can't figger out why they Should keep the blamed thing hid away.
One time, when Ma was sick abed With wet cloths wrapped aroun' her head, I saw my Pa sneak back somewheres Behind the bottom of the stairs An' fetch it out, I reckon fer T' find out what was ailin' her.
I had t' squeeze behind th' door An' didn't get t' see no more; But some day I'm agoin' t' find That thing, an' satisfy my mind An' read, an' read, 'till I can see Jist why they hid it up from me.
[ADVERTISEMENTS SECTION]
BULBS For Fall Planting We will have our usual carload shipment of Tulips, Hyacinths, Crocuses, etc., direct from the best growers in Holland. This will include the very cream of all the varieties now in cultivation. Peonies, Phlox and Perennial Plants and seeds from our own grounds are now ready. Write for Free Copy of New Catalog Porter-Walton Company 42 West First South Salt Lake City, Utah
When YOUR Building BURNS There's a certain amount of comfort to know that should fire destroy your building tonight that you are covered by fire insurance. Such insurance will indemnify you for the loss incurred and allow you to rebuild without financial hardship. It's worth a good deal to have this protection in these times. See our agent in your town UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO. HEBER J. GRANT & CO. General Agents 20 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah
