Here is the corrected OCR transcription in a vertical list format in the order from the document:

Modern Food Emporium
Thousands of families in eight different States are now buying their entire food requirement from O. P. Skaggs System Stores and Markets in a more satisfactory manner than they have ever before experienced. Join this modern and thrifty host of buyers.
O. P. SKAGGS
Efficient Service
FOOD System
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
What It Is!
a BEAUTIFUL home for those we love a community Tomb wherein the body of a loved one is laid away in its own private vault, or Crypt—in its entirety, as in life.
to come forth in the first resurrection, after perhaps centuries of perfect preservation.
even as Kings of Egypt are being found, just as they were buried four thousand years ago.
how beautiful!
could one do more for the one one loves?
hardly!
of course, such a "Temple of the Dead" must be a thing of beauty, design, and craftsmanship, in order that it may endure through the ages.
Located on Wasatch Boulevard in the City Cemetery. Designed to last forever by America's foremost builder of Mausoleums.
Salt Lake Memorial Mausoleum
404-405 Walker Bank Building
Phone Was. 2073
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
FELQEIST DEPARTMENT STORE
ON BROADWAY, BETWEEN MAIN AND STATE
WASATCH 696
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
DEPENDABLE MERCHANDISE
At Common Sense Prices—Always
Events of the Past
How well do you know them?
The new books of history and biography will interest you!
DESERET BOOK COMPANY
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
P. O. Box 1793
Salt Lake City, Utah
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Good Housekeeping Institute Seal
Aprons 75¢
For homes without electricity, the Maytag is available with built-in gasoline motor.
There Is Only One Maytag
Only one Maytag cast-aluminum tub.
Only one Maytag Gyrafoam Washing Action.
Only one Maytag Roller Water Remover.
The Maytag is the measure of washer value. Send for a trial Maytag washing—if it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it. Deferred payments you'll never miss.
Maytag Intermountain Co.
211 SOUTH STATE
SALT LAKE CITY
Phone Was. 5858
Distributors
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Summer Excursion Fares
Southern Pacific Lines
TO CALIFORNIA POINTS
To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS via SAN FRANCISCO $40.00
To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning direct or route reversed $47.10
Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA.
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS.
TICKETS ON SALE DAILY MAY 15TH TO SEPT. 30TH
FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCTOBER 31ST
For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE
PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT
41 SO. MAIN ST.
SALT LAKE CITY
PHONES WAS. 3008—3078
Berry Season is nigh
For Unsurpassed Preserves
Use Utah Sugar
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made
CHILDREN'S ALLOVERS
Khaki and White Khaki and Blue Peggy
Backed Denim Dutch Kut
for Boys For Girls
The Famous MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS
Give Splendid Satisfaction
This Happened in Rigby, Idaho
Our salesman was in a store in Rigby, Idaho, and overheard the following conversation:
"I want a can of Pork and Beans."
"BLUE PINE?"
"Yes, I want SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans."
"Lady, you really like BLUE PINE Pork and Beans?"
"The last can we bought of SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans were the best Pork and Beans we have ever eaten."
Scowcroft's BLUE PINE PORK & BEANS are made from those large, Great Northern beans, cooked through and flavored with a liberal piece of fresh pork and covered with a delicious tomato sauce that we make from our own recipe, which has not been duplicated by any other packer of Pork and Beans.
Another part of kitchen drudgery can now be done away with. Buy Blue Pine Pork and Beans and let the can opener reveal a wholesome, satisfying meal.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS SPRING LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of spring wear:
No. 1—New style, ribbed lgt. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number $1.25
No. 2—Old style, ribbed lgt. wgt. Cotton, our standard summer wgt. $1.25
No. 3—Ribbed med. wgt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number $1.90
No. 4—Ribbed heavy wgt. unbleached cotton. Our double back number $2.25
No. 5—Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number $3.00
No. 6—High grade rayon wgt. tricosham silk. For particular people $4.00
No. 7—Light wgt. new or old style, mercerized silky finish $1.75
No. 8—Ribbed heavy wgt. unbleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number $4.25
No. 9—Ribbed med. wgt. wool and cotton. Our light weight winter number $4.75
No. 10—Ribbed light weight men's and ladies' summer garments, new and old style 75¢
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills
Briant Stringham, Manager
28 Richards Street ½ Block South of Temple Gates
Wedding Announcements and Invitations
Be sure to see us before ordering your announcements or invitations. If you are unable to come in, don't hesitate to write for samples and prices. You should entrust this work to a firm that assures you the newest in style and correctness in taste. Our line is complete.—Printed, Process Embossed, and Engraved. Prices are right.
The Deseret News Press
29 Richards Street
Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
147 Spring Needle Flat Weave, a popular Lt. Wt. $1.10
278 Medium Rib 1.20
208 A Good Number, Lt. Wt. Rib 1.35
32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt. 1.50
222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes 1.65
258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95
628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt. 2.25
264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality 3.00
748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.00
754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.25
908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75
1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton 4.00
BARTON & CO.
Established in Utah 45 Years
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City, Utah
Special Sunday Bricks and Neapolitan Bricks 25c pt., 50c qt.
Call Your Keeley's Dealer.
ICE CREAM CANDY CAKE PUNCHES
Extra packed in ice.
TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices.
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton Knee length $.75
No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs .85
No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot. 1.10
No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle 1.85
No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle 1.35
No. 64 Ribbed Med. lt. Cot. 1.35
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. bleached 1.70
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back 1.70
No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached Double Back 2.15
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 3.35
No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool 3.85
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
Wool and Silk Stripe 4.65
Knee Length 2.35
Long Sleeves and Legs 2.85
WHITE SHIRTS Cutler's Fine Quality Collar Attached or Without $1.95
BLUE SERGE SUIT $37.00
HAND BAGS BRIEF CASES
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new style. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c.
CUTLER'S
36 So. Main
GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
For Diamonds, Wedding Rings, and Watches
Come to Jensens, the old reliable jewelers that have been at your service for over a half century
JENSENS JEWELERS
15 MAIN ST.
EST. 1875
"She Has a University Training"
How Often that Sentence Determines the Selection of Women for Important Positions in Church and Civic Affairs.
TO BE "Y" TRAINED IS TO BE TRAINED FOR SERVICE AND LEADERSHIP
Located in the Heart of Utah in Provo the Garden City, Brigham Young University is prepared to serve Western People Fully in the Field of Higher Education.
It Is Accredited By The Association Of American Universities
THE FALL TERM BEGINS SEPTEMBER 16
Students who desire to enter before that time may do so at the opening of the summer quarter June 10, or at the beginning of the second term of the summer school at Aspen Grove July 22.
"Ask Any 'Y' Student About The 'Y' Spirit"
For Information Address
Brigham Young University
PROVO, UTAH
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
CONTENTS
The Tabernacle at Salt Lake City Frontispiece
Relief Society Conference Julia A. F. Lund 289
Officers' Meeting—Morning Session 290
Officers' Meeting Afternoon Session 297
Work and Business Meeting 340
General Session—Morning 341
General Session—Afternoon 342
The Best You Can Do Alfred Osmond 343
Evolution of the Ugly Duckling Estelle Webb Thomas 344
Love's Recompense Grace Jacobson 352
Evening Merling Clyde 353
Evening and Night Weston N. Nordgren 354
Thoughtfulness Myrtle Janson 355
Requirement Alberta H. Christensen 356
Beloved Nona H. Brown 357
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123

VOL. XVI JUNE, 1929 NO. 6
THE TABERNACLE AT SALT LAKE CITY
Where the general sessions of the Relief Society Conference were held, April 4, 1929. Records of the organization show that Relief Society conferences of April 7, 1891, and October 7, 1897, and the Jubilee celebration, March 17, 1892, were held in the Tabernacle. It will doubtless be the policy to hold the general Relief Society conference sessions here in the future.

VOL. XVI JUNE, 1929 No. 6
Relief Society Conference
Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints held its annual conference April 3 and 4, 1929, in Salt Lake City, Utah. President Louise Y. Robison was in charge, presiding over the general officers' meeting and stake presidents' meeting, and both general sessions. Eleven meetings were programmed, also the presidents' breakfast, the reception in honor of President Clarissa S. Williams, and the meeting of the mission presidents and former presidents.
The conference opened with the general officers' meeting on Wednesday morning, for stake officers, board members, and mission presidents, the attendance being perhaps the largest that the Relief Society has yet had. The program as printed and distributed to the various stakes was carried out in every detail. Representatives from 99 out of the 101 stakes, and 5 missions were present. The roll call showing the following representation: General Board members, 19; stake and mission officers, 561, including stake presidents, 99, counselors 117, secretary-treasurers 55, other board members, 285; mission presidents, 5; making a total of 580.
The seven department meetings were held on Wednesday afternoon, with capacity audiences participating. For the first time since October 7, 1897, the Relief Society general sessions were held in the Tabernacle. This was not the usual practice at that time so that in holding the conference in this building, the Society is inaugurating a new policy to be followed hereafter. Ushers, provided by the six city stakes?Ensign, Granite, Grant, Liberty, Pioneer and Salt Lake, gave excellent service in meeting the people and handling the large number in attendance.
The music was excellent. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, director of the Relief Society choir, and Miss Edna Coray, organist, did their usual fine work; besides there were special numbers from the stakes, and from local artists, and two of the
290 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tabernacle organists, Edward P. Kimball and Alexander Schreiner.
The reception on Wednesday evening, a most delightful affair, was held in the beautiful auditorium of the Bishop's Building, tastefully decorated for the occasion. Here the host of friends and Relief Society workers had the opportunity of meeting again with our dear former president, Clarissa S. Williams, and also the new president, Louise Y. Robison, the First Presidency, other Church officials, and members of the General Board. Able committees managed this affair, the city stake presidents acting as hostesses.
One of the most successful meetings of the conference, the presidents' breakfast, was held on Thursday morning at the Hotel Utah. It took the form of a round table discussion of important problems confronting Relief Society workers.
With a record-breaking attendance, the inspirational and instructive department meetings contributed strongly to the high spiritual uplift that pervaded the entire conference proceedings.
Officers' Meeting
Morning Session
President Louise Y. Robison
My beloved sisters: If I only had words to express my gratitude to you this morning I am sure it would be something greater than anyone has ever done; but I trust that you can sense my appreciation, as well as that of my counselors, the secretary and the General Board, for your loyalty and support. From the time we were called last Fall, messages have continued to come in, expressing loyalty and love. We cannot tell you what this means to us in carrying on the work, and we can only pray that you will have the same fine support from your ward workers that you have given to us.
I am sure you are missing Sister Williams this morning, just as we are. You will be happy to hear that her health is much improved. The reception in her honor will be given here on this floor, but we shall have the board room open downstairs, and we ask you just to make yourselves at home. Our hostesses tonight will be the city stake presidents.
We recognize conspicuously among the other outstanding things that you blessed sisters have done this winter, your fine co-operation in pushing needed social legislation. Throughout the State of Utah the sisters were asked to circulate petitions to be sent to the legislature asking for a home for our feeble-minded. The response was wonderful. We have been told by prominent people, and by the officers of the Mental Hygiene Society, that had it not been for the Relief Society's efforts, this piece of work
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 291
could not have been accomplished; and we desire to thank you heartily.
Our message to you today, my dear sisters, is that we are trying just as hard as we know how, to carry on the work that has been established so beautifully by our mothers and the former leaders in Relief Society. We have all confidence that you will do your best, in your individual stakes. If there is anything with which the General Board can help you, we shall be most happy to co-operate. Call on us; make this your headquarters when you are in Salt Lake. Come in and talk your problems over. No problems are too small; they are all big, if you are interested in them.
In part we realize what the sisters have accomplished; but I think only our Father in heaven knows the full extent of your work. We have gratifying figures and splendid reports, but I believe the real spirit of Relief Society work is never recorded. I think that the angels of heaven are the only ones to keep the record of what is being done.
A matter of business that has not been brought before the people for some time has now reached a point where we should like to call the attention of the president, and especially of the sister on the stake board who has charge of the Magazine work, to the order blanks that we send to the wards, without charge. Encourage the sisters in the wards to use these blanks accurately, and to note any change of address. If they write down when the subscriptions are to begin, we keep them on file and they are of great help to us.
Many fine advertisements appear in our Magazine. If those who write in from out of town to any who advertise with us, or if you are in the city and are making purchases, it will help us and strengthen us greatly if you will mention that you saw the advertisement in the Relief Society Magazine, and I believe you will be given better attention as well.
Reports coming in from many of our stakes inquire about holding meetings on Tuesday night with the other auxiliaries. In some of the stakes our officers have been perplexed and annoyed by these inquiries. Now, sisters, we have the word from the Presiding Bishopric that the Relief Societies are not to hold their meetings on Tuesday night unless it suits their convenience. During this conference, the general theme for the conference will be the up-building of our homes; and I feel that it is a mistake even to have Church duties conflict with our work for better homes.
Since there is a full program this morning, I just want to pray that the blessing of the Lord will be upon this audience, that the beautiful prayer offered by Sister Eleanor J. Richards may be realized by all. I humbly ask that the Lord will protect our loved ones at home, and that He will be with us here, that we may receive the things that will be for our best good.
292 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ANNUAL REPORT
Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund?General Secretary
It is my great pleasure, sisters, to give you a brief statement of the annual report for 1928. Reports from the various stakes and missions have been duly received and carefully audited. The statement that I shall make concerns simply a very few of the outstanding features; the report in detail will be furnished you in the May Magazine.
When one is engaged in a special piece of work, her attention naturally centers there; never before have I appreciated what the work of the secretaries of the various stakes and missions of the Relief Society organization really means. I thank sincerely all those fine secretaries who have so splendidly co-operated with the general office in this important labor.
The summary shows the total balance on hand, January 1, 1928, to be $171,794.72; total receipts during 1928, $302,817.17; total balance on hand and receipts, $474,611.89. The amount paid for charitable purposes was $100,836.76; the total disbursements were $298,402.44, leaving a balance, December 31, 1928, $176,209.45. The total assets amount to $1,042,754.13.
Number of ward conferences held, 1,171; teachers' visits made, 700,131; visits to the sick and homebound, 189,593; membership, 1927, 61,820; 1928, 62,550, an increase of 730. The membership includes 10,463 executive and special officers, 20,948 visiting teachers, and 31,139 lay members. The average attendance in 1927 was 22,590; in 1928, 24,775, an increase of 2,185. The amount paid for charitable purposes in 1927 was $100,105.39; in 1928, $100,836.76; an increase of $731.37.
As I have said before, we appreciate the secretaries, and hope to be of all possible service to them.
MRS. CAROLINE S. HYDE Former President, Australian Mission Relief Society
In standing before an audience of this kind, I feel very weak, as it is something I am not used to. But I know by the audience that the spirit of the Lord is here, and I am grateful to have the privilege of reporting the Australian mission.
Australia is a very beautiful country. There are many fine people there, and we have five Relief Society organizations fully organized, and although our membership is small, a good work is being done by the sisters there. Many of our members have to travel long distances in order to get to their meetings, and though transportation is very easy with the electric trains, street cars and bus system, yet travel takes much time and is expensive.
In Australia, owing to scattered conditions, we have no visiting teachers, and one of the presidency or a sister takes one day a month for
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 293
visits to worthy sisters who are not able to attend Society meetings. The five organizations of the Relief Society are located in Adelaide, Hobart, Melbourne, Perth, and Sydney. The distances between these towns is from 600 to 1,700 miles. The Relief Society mission president generally makes her visits during conference time so that she may have the privilege of traveling with the mission president. When we remember that Australia is larger than the United States, with about seven million people, it would be about the same as traveling from New York to Los Angeles, and holding conference half a dozen times during that distance.
The sisters are taking up the lessons in the Magazine in their meetings, and they appreciate them very much, especially the theology lessons. Many of the women are young in the gospel and young in the organization, and they take a great deal of interest in the lessons.
A short time before I left, there was a call from the children's hospital for a donation from all the churches, several hundred articles being wanted. The hospitals in Australia are kept up by donations, and make only small charges for service. One of the elders, operated on for appendicitis, was in a hospital for two or three weeks at a cost not exceeding $30.
The Relief Society in Western Australia made several articles and sent them to the children's hospital. Favorable comment was made, and not long after that, they were asked to join with other organizations in a bazaar and to share in the proceeds. The president of the mission thought this co-operation would be a very splendid thing because the Latter-day Saints would be able to reach a different class of people, and put their work and some of the principles of the gospel before them. These two little charitable acts have done a great deal of good, but a bitter feeling toward our Church still exists.
TEACHER TRAINING MEETING
Report by Mrs. Hazel N. Boyack, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society
It is indeed a pleasure to stand before you this morning, and I wish to bring to the General Board and to the sisters in this conference love and greetings from the Relief Society women of the Big Horn Stake. We want you to know we are one with you in heart and in the aims and purposes of this wonderful organization.
My theme this morning is the teacher-training class; I have been asked to speak on the way we carry it on in our stake. I think it a very progressive step in our organization. There are three points I should like to mention: first, it gives a personal touch to the visiting teachers' work that it has lacked before; secondly, it gives them a little added training; and thirdly, because
294 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the great number that this department can reach (in our stake 38% are visiting teachers), it enables this department, if carried on as it should be, to stimulate every member of our organization.
In the Big Horn Stake the winter has been severe, the thermometer going thirty and forty degrees below zero, and we have had much snow. In spite of that handicap, our work has improved every month. During January four out of nine wards reported 100%; the rest were up in the nineties. During February six out of the nine had 100%. One ward has had 100% for fifteen months?a remarkable record.
One other thing that I think has contributed much to the teachers' work is the visiting teachers' testimonials, with the ward presidents as hostesses. They serve perhaps a three-course luncheon, have snappy toasts and good music, and get a short response from each visiting teacher. These teachers go away with a determination to reach 100% in efficiency. This plan has worked very well, and the teachers feel that they are being noticed.
Report by Mrs. Julia E. Parry, President, North Weber Stake Relief Society
Having tried the new teachers' plan for the four months, we feel that it would be a splendid thing to have the sisters attend the one o'clock meeting for the inspiration that comes from these wonderful lessons. In our four city wards we have great success, some of the wards reporting 100% in attendance; but in the country wards it is different. In a farming community there is always a dinner to get for the men who are working and for the children who come in from school; therefore it is impossible to get the sisters to the one o'clock meeting. They are trying it out, and they think it a wonderful plan, but the hour that has been set is a little inconvenient. As a result, their attendance has not been so good. They feel that the discussion they have on the teachers' topic is very helpful, and their meetings have been some of the very best we have attended. We received strength and encouragement by meeting with the teachers and seeing the splendid faith they have in their meetings. They all feel the responsibility when we discuss the lesson. We do feel that this is a wonderful plan, but we are not satisfied with the way we are working it out. We feel that possibly we will have to change our hour. We feel that the teachers' work is one of the best, and we have willing women in our stake. We desire to support the General Board. We feel their sweet, lovely spirit towards us, and we enjoy meeting with them. We receive strength from them when we come to conference. We have the desire in our hearts to do all that they ask of us. We feel that the sisters with whom we work are very lovely and desire to do all that is asked of them.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 295
Work and Business Meeting
Report by Mrs. Achsa E. Paxman, President, Utah Stake Relief Society
In Utah Stake we collect our charity fund probably a little differently than most of you do. Some years ago a community welfare department was established in our Relief Society. Twice a year, in April and in October, we make collections. Each ward is assessed according to its population and financial ability to pay. Last year our assessment for our sixteen wards was $4,860 and I may say that we always get 100% in, because the rich ward helps the poor ward. The work is handled from stake headquarters. Each ward has a social worker, or the president handles the social work and reports to the stake headquarters, and the money is distributed from the stake headquarters to the various social workers or presidents. Of course, our bishops aid in determining the help that should be given in the various wards. No money comes in on the second Tuesday of the month, that being taken care of previously. Our teachers give only their teachers' topic in the homes, and investigate what the needs are, which they report to the president.
About four years ago there were some who felt that a program should be arranged for this second Tuesday. This was done and was called the special activity program. In September the stake presidents of the Primary and the M. I. A. gave topics, telling what they hoped to do for our boys and girls. Many mothers are not acquainted with what their boys and girls are doing. The attendance in Primary and Mutual has increased through co-operation with the Relief Society. In October a Kensington was given, each member sewing for over-burdened mothers. In November the special activity program related to the spirit of Christmas and Christmas foods. In December the topic considered was how a mother may assist in habit formation and in the sex problems of her children. This topic was given at one of our group sessions. We divided our sixteen wards into five groups and a physician gave the instruction. The wards enjoy coming together, seeing sisters from other wards, and hearing a good program. It is a very good advertising medium for the Relief Society, bringing sisters who had not attended regularly. We planned another general sewing day in January; in February, a travelogue of foreign countries, each ward procuring someone who had traveled abroad to give the talk. In March we considered trees and birds, this topic being previously given in union meeting by two professors from the Brigham Young University. The topic for April was home improve-
296 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ment and practical hints on home furnishings. In May, the book The Fundamentals of Prosperity, by Roger W. Babson, will be reviewed.
This is the fourth year we have tried this plan. You will notice that we arranged for two sewing days during this year's program, which must be just as well planned as the program for any other day. Our stake this year has made 192 quilts, 37 woven rugs, and 447 miscellaneous articles.
Report by Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon, President, Pioneer Stake Relief Society
I am happy to tell you how we put over the Work and Business Meeting in our stake. Of course we take it from an entirely different angle than does the Utah Stake. To me there are two main divisions of the work and business day?the business part, and the work part combined with the social.
In the business part of the meeting we have our opening exercises and our preliminary program, which I feel is a very necessary part of the work and business day, because in the business meeting we have not a great deal of business to transact. I would not have this program for the work and business meeting exceed thirty minutes, as the women are anxious to get to work, and feel that every minute taken from their work is a loss.
Nearly all the wards quilt. The women enjoy this as it lends the community spirit. Eight women usually comprise a quilting group, so that we must provide something for the other women to work on. In our union meeting we make suggestions of work, which the presidents carry into their wards. There should be two or three activities prepared for the work meeting, which is one of the most fundamental meetings we have for creating a community spirit. It requires preparation. Every detail must be planned ahead of time. When the women come, the sister in charge organizes them, every woman being taken care of immediately and started to work.
Social contact for the women is important. While we work we can visit and learn to honor and respect each other. One organization is typical: There was one quilt; twenty other women were making painted candles and artificial flowers. In another group, five or six elderly women were visiting, talking over old times, not working but getting social contact. In one ward at a most successful work meeting, there were nine members; two of the women were cutting up old stockings to make a cushion for the elders administering the sacrament to kneel on, and another for the bishop's chair. Others were unravelling old sweaters to be crocheted into an afghan. All were looking to see what could be done to help the community. OO RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 297 Officers' Meetings (Afternoon Session) THEOLOGICAL DEPARTMENT Mrs. Jennie B. Knight presided, assisted by Mrs. Cora L. Bennion and Mrs. Ethel R. Smith Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, chairman of the committee on theological lessons, in presenting the course for the ensuing year, stated that next year, 1930, marks the centenary of the organization of the Church. The committee therefore felt that a fitting course would be one devoted to a study of the Book of Mormon. In listening to reports from the mission fields we learn that the missionaries are distrbuting many copies of the Book of Mormon, giving much time and labor to bringing this valuable book to the attention of people in the world. Many testimonies from members of the Church emphasize the importance of the Book of Mormon and its teachings. We feel that our members will enjoy a study of the gospel doctrines that are found within this book, as it explains the gospel i in great simplicity. Dr. George H. Brimhall, who has written the theological lessons for the past ten years, was introduced by Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, who said that he had been her teacher for over fifty years, and that so far as she was concerned, he was the greatest teacher she had ever known. LOYALTY Dr. George H. Brimhall First?Be loyal to the great ubjective of all teaching, leading others to learn. Not what the teachers do, but what the class is led to do is the measure of success.; Second?Be loyal to the lesson outline. Supplement it, condense it, and expand it, but don't discard it; for in so doing you foster depreciation, which is always depressing to the student, if not discouraging. Loyalty to outline is loyalty to the organization that furnishes it. Study the outline with a view of making it sparkle. Thrd?Be loyal to the rights of class appointees. When a member of the class has been assigned a part for special preparation the teacher will see to it that the member has recognition in the lesson presentation. There is program ethics just as there is road ethics or banquet ethics or business ethics. Fourth?Be loyal to the spirit of inquiry. The spirit made of Joseph Smith a student on his way to become a seer. Encourage inquiry, not speculative inquiry but truth- -seeking inquiry. Adam was not afraid to ask, Why men must be baptized? 298 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LITERARY DEPARTMENT Miss Alice L. Reynolds presided, assisted by Mrs, Rosannah C. Irvine and Mrs. Kate M. Barker Miss Alice L. REYNOLDS Member of the General Board  The thought behind the literature lessons of the past six months has been that of emphasizing social problems that are, or may be at any time, part of the consideration of a social worker. We heard of one ward that asked a specialist in literature about The Devil's Disciple. This specialist promptly asked, "Why read The Devil's Disciple if you are going to consider Shaw?" This, of course, was a natural reaction born of a purely literary point of view, but it. Implies a course which would upset the whole purpose of the drama lessons. The Devil's Disciple was selected primarily for two reasons: first, it furnishes a situation where we have a self-righteous daughter of New England Puritanism entrusted with the care of a child born out of wedlock. Many of us have the Puritan background and might be tempted to treat a child just as Dick Dudgeon's mother treated Essie. Dick Dudgeon, who is called "the devil's disciple" is the only person who really has any consideration for the child. The second point to be emphasized is brought out in a speech of Dick's when he says to the minister's wife: Your husband is a good man, but I fancy he is good because you have helped him and treated him kindly; and it may be that I am a bad man because I have been treated unkindly. That is a lesson in environment. Again, turning to Galsworthy's play, Justice, we have a number of social problems presented. There is the motive for the crime, the matter of the prison, and what is to be done with a man who has served a prison term and is back in society. It presents also the situation growing out of Ruth's attempt to care for her children and the discovery that it is impossible to do so on the ten shillings a week which she receives for sewing. All these problems were of concern to Mr. Galsworthy, who was trained for the practice of law, but who has preferred to present the injustice that frequently grows out of following the law. The Yale Review of October, 1921, has this to say of John Galsworthy: "His work is notable for its economy of words, its breadth of social sympathy and deep pity, its sharp perception and extreme sensitiveness." Perhaps we have no other modern playwright who has given so much intelligent attention to social problems as has John Galsworthy, For this reason we selected one of his plays. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 299 Joseph and His Brethren is a pageant play, replete with beautiful pictures taken from the Biblical story of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt. It is not intended to present a social problem, but merely to bring before the organization a wholesome play which draws its material from the Bible?a play richly laden with beautiful passages and scriptural teachings. PROFESSOR HARRISON R. MERRILL. For the coming year in the department of literature, it has been decided that a study of literary biography will be both profitable and entertaining to our readers. At least nine biographies will be selected and prepared for study. Since they are to serve as literary studies as well as accounts of worth-while lives, these biographies will be selected with great care. This decision has been reached in a rather logical manner. In our own day men and women who really are splendid writers are giving much attention to the writing of biographies and autobiographies. It was thought, therefore, that it would be more profitable to read a well written, fearless, yet sympathetic biography of a real person than it would be to read the biography of a fictitious character such as is found in the best novels. That is, the committee feels that it would be fully as enlightening to read the life struggles of an Abraham Lincoln as it would be to read about the supposed struggles of a Henry Esmond or a Silas Lapham. This very decision, however, suggests the method to be used in the study. In the first place, the literary form of the biography itself should receive attention; and in the second place, the character of the person about whom the biography was written should be considered. Each month in the Relief Society Magazine will appear a review of one of these books written up in lesson form as a guide not only to the teacher and to the person who gives the lesson, but to all who desire to read the biographies selected. An attempt will be made to have these lessons complete in themselves. Many readers, however, may prefer to read the entire, original biography. In an early Magazine will appear the names of all the biographies that are to be studied. It is suggested that the class leader study her class membership carefully and make her assignments early, in order that the person who presents the lesson may have time to read and actually study the biography she treats. In this way the lecture may take the form of a first class book review, and deal with the literary charm of the biography as well as with the character it portrays. Biographies are usually a little more expensive than ordinary books, because their distribution is rather limited. Wherever it is practical, therefore, the local town library should be induced to 300 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE secure the books in advance. Librarians usually welcome suggestions for the purchase of books, since the library is maintained for the use and pleasure of the people who support it. In towns where there are no libraries, some of the sisters may perhaps be willing to buy one or more of the books; or, possibly, a library fund may be secured by individual contributions to it or hy public entertainments, for its benefit. The Deseret Book Store in Salt Lake City maintains a traveling library service from which books may be had at a nominal cost. In some cases, it may be possible to induce the company to place these books in a town library for the use of members of the Relief Society. If the books cannot be secured at all, our readers will have to rely wholly upon the lessons written for the Magazine. The best lesson work cannot usually be realized in this way, for it is through contact with the authors of the biographies that adequate estimates of the characters are to be had. A definite attempt will be made to keep the lessons on a plane which will give them an appeal for all classes of women. The reading of such preparatory books as "What Can Literature Do for Me?" by C. Alphonso Smith; "The Interpretation of the Printed Page," by Clark; and "The Study of Prose Fiction," by Bliss Perry, will be helpful to those who direct the class work and to those who review any of these books. Editor's Note: The use of these books may be had at many public libraries. The Deseret Book Company will carry the biographies, but we wish it understood now, as formerly, that the purchase of these books is optional with the organizations. VISITING TEACHERS' CLASS LEADERS DEPARTMENT Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter presided, assisted by Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Baxter explained briefly the purpose of the teachers' demonstration in the different homes, and Mrs. Bradford gave the place of the woman as hostess in the home. The value of the teachers' message was discussed at some length. Mrs. Emmaretta G. Brown, President of Granite Stake Relief Society, presented able arguments in favor of the printed message, while Mrs. Mary E. B. Fitzgerald first counselor in East Jordan Stake Relief Society, gave an excellent defense of the oral message carried by the teachers on their visits. Both were fine examples of the logical and consistent thinking through of a problem. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 301 SOCIAL SERVICE CLASS LEADERS DEPARTMENT Mrs. Inez K. Allen presided, assisted by Miss Sarah M. McLelland and Mrs. Marcia K. Howells MENTALLY SUPERIOR CHILDREN Dr. Dorothy B, Nyswander Today I am to talk upon a subject which has been of primary interest to people in general, to educators and to psychologists, for some hundreds of years. Plato was one of the first persons that we know of to become interested in this problem of the child. He set up some very simple tests to pick out the superior child from the rest of the children of Greece. That was the beginning of mental testing; and though an experimental attitude toward children entirely disappeared during the middle ages, we still feel the effects of Plato's discriminations in our attitude towards superior children today. Brilliant Children Become Leaders of Men One of the most prevalent beliefs that I have encountered is that most of our brilliant men today are mediocre as children and did not do very good work in school. If we should make an investigation of the American and British men of science, German men of science, and men of letters in these three countries, we should find that they have been exceptionally bright from earliest childhood, and that the majority of them did excellent work in high school and in college. The one who does not do exceptional work in school, and who does not show signs of brilliance in childhood, is the exception. We should realize that brilliancy is something characteristic in the young child and in youth, not something sporadic, but something consistent. However, many children who do not show these signs of brilliancy may fail to do so because of lack of opportunity, because they have been brought up in a rural community which did not offer advantages for bringing forth the superior mental equipment which they possessed. When the boy who has been brought up in a rural community goes to college, he becomes interested in his work, and shows signs of brilliancy which were dormant in his home town. That does not mean that this boy was stupid as a young boy, but only that he failed to get interested in the work the rural schools gave him. Bright Children Do Things Their Own Way Another common error is that genius and insanity are linked together. I have known parents of a brilliant child to be concerned about his sanity. There are just as many people who become insane from a 'mediocre background; that is, there are no 302 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE more people of genius who become insane than come from other ranges of mentality. But the brilliant child refuses to be circumscribed by convention, refuses to see the importance of all behaving according to a given social pattern; whereas the child who is less brilliant does not observe that most of us behave after a commercial pattern. Most of us do not resent the fact that there are certain laws which we must all obey for the good of society. Many parents have a child who is much more clever than they are; and this child, being so clever, wants to be an individual who does not wish to conform to the rules of society. We see that time and time again, but on the other hand we see the same patterns of behavior demonstrated by children who are feeble-minded, and by children who lack intelligence to appreciate the rule. The point I want to make is this, that the superior child alone is not the only type of child who refuses to abide by the laws of convention, and by our social laws. Hence the importance of his training in the home and school where he is taught to appreciate and to understand the laws of society, and where he is shown that the best good for himself and the best good for society can come from his observance of these laws. Where you fail to teach this to the brilliant child, he builds up habits of his own and becomes a social rebel. Intelligence Differs in Quantity Sometimes we think of the brilliant child as absolutely different from other children; but when you study intelligence in children, you find that the thing children differ in is not in the quality of their intelligence, but in the quantity. They are not different. Any one child is not different from another in mind, but simply in his large degree of intelligence; and so, we discover in training the superior child, we should use the same type of training in the home for actual habit formation that we use for all the rest of the children. The superior child is not a different person; his mind works in the same way, but a little faster. He learns more quickly, gets insights into situations more readily than other children do; but the same attitude should be taken toward him as toward the other children. Some people have supposed that children who were bright when they were little, turn toward mediocrity when they get older. What is the trouble with a judgment of that kind? In the first place the child may only have appeared to be bright when he was little. Unless you have a scientific analysis that the child is bright. You must be very careful in your judgment. Many a school teacher has been deceived by the looks of a little child sitting down in the front row. The little child looks so bright. And especially the little girls, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 503 who learn to smile at the teacher. That is what many children learn, and teachers are deceived by appearances. School Studies May Be at Fault The other thing that may happen is this, that a bright child is not interested in any of the school work. That happens time and time again with children who are very superior in their intelligence, yet who do mediocre work in school. The failure is that of the school to call forth their intelligence. Another thing that makes adolescent children appear dull or stupid is the fact that they are having emotional streaks and social streaks, which keep their minds from doing their school work. That is something which all parents should recognize. During adolescence we may get a sporadic type of work from children which is not consistent. That type of problem we meet most often in high school work. Another thing that enters into this problem of the superior child is our frequent failure to distinguish between the ability of the child to do mechanical work and creative work. Often a child with mediocre intelligence is able to do excellent work in arithmetic, in spelling, in memorizing music; such a child may also do beautiful copy work, and may excel in doing all these things; yet he may not be of superior intelligence, nor a child of genius, These things which I have mentioned are mechanical. The Mark of Genius The thing that distinguishes is creative ability. The child, of genius, of superior mentality, is able to create something of his own, to do something else than copy what others have done. We can distinguish this quality in very young children. In putting things together in a new way, or attempting to do something in a new fashion. In drawing animals or making up words such as have never been used, the child uses creative power. Not many of us have children who have this ability. About one child out of ten is classified among superior children, and. About one child out of a hundred is classified among the children of genius. There we get the distinction. Many of us have a child who is one out of ten; but it is a very exceptional thing to find a child who is one out of a hundred. Value of Intelligence Tests Dr. Termain at Stanford University is now making a followup study of one thousand children of genius. I have had the privilege of being a student in part of this work. The tests were made on these one thousand children of genius nine years ago, and research facts have been given to Dr. Termain to enable him to follow up just what is going to happen to these children. Twentyfive years from now we shall know much more about what a high 304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE intelligence quotient means than we do now. At present we are not quite sure what a high quotient means. It is correlated with learning power, but what has it to do with social ability? What will these children of genius do as leaders of people, in the business world? These are questions to be answered through the research of Dr. Termain. In studying their physical assets, We find that children of genius are above the average 10 height, in weight, and in all health measurements. We sometimes find frail bright children and healthy bright children, but the average health of bright children is above the average of the normal group. They play just as do the normal children, but their play takes on different characteristics. They are less fond of group play; they are always trying to change the rules of the game; they have creative minds; they ask, "Why should we stick by those old rules?" When the rest of the group refuses to have the rules changed, they find it more snteresting to play by themselves. They have interest in hobbies and books. The superior child reads perhaps ten to fifty times as many books as does the child of inferior intelligence; and they are books that give them instruction?travel pooks, nature books, tales of discovery. They like to read stories about great men, also to read magazines that tell them how to construct things. The Scientsfic Attitude By virtue of this intelligence test, we have a more scientific attitude toward the differences in children. Five years ag0 we. Were not able to distinguish between these children in their ability to learn and in their tendency to achieve greatness: We could not tell; the best thing we could do was to look at them and their school credits. Parents are not able to tell anything about the brilliance of their children, because they do not know enough children to compare them with. I have heard very bright children described by their parents as not very clever; the standards of the family were so high in achievement that they had no way of comparison. The parent is least able to discriminate; the school teacher does it a little better because she has many children to compare. Not a Measure of Emotions But the intelligence tests have many weaknesses. They do not meastire emotions, trustworthiness, honesty, nor any of those fine traits that are necessary in children. Because a child has a very high I. Q., it does not mean that he is going to bea leader of men. If he develops bad study habits, he will be lost to society. Some parents think that because their child is above the average in intelligence, they have nothing to worry about. That is not true. Habits of work, industry, temperament habits of sympathy, of understanding, of leadership, must be learned. This is something RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 305 to remember when you hear criticism of the intelligence test. All the intelligence test does is to measure the ability of the child to learn; but it does this rather effectively. I should prefer a child who is of average intelligence, with fine habits of personality and industry, to work with me, to be one of my students, to be my secretary, to be one of my associates, to one of superior intelligence without these traits. These things must balance against each other, and we must understand them when we come to evaluate children. What to Do With Gifted Children Just a word on the matter of the education of gifted children. What shall we do with them? There are various methods for training them. In some schools we put them in groups and we call it the superior group. When we do this, and the children know that it is the superior group, we sometimes get harmful results, not only as respects the development of the other children, but harmful results also to the children who are actually superior. The system is a good one when it is properly worked out. I know, because I have been part of a school system in which we had children classified according to their abilities, none of the children knowing they were in a superior group or an inferior group. In other schools, they give rapid promotion. There is no one general rule that can be set, or used, since each child presents a different problem. Some children, physically and socially mature, may be advanced half a year, and, with a little extra teaching, put in another group; but many bright children are not developed socially and physically to cope with the children of the advanced groups; so that special promotion in many cases does serious harm. Make Special Study of Each Case Each case should be a special case to be handled by itself; in 10 school system should a fixed rule be made. What seems of most benefit at the present time is to give bright children an opportunity for self expression; to give them books, stories, hobbies. The bright child who can do the required work in school, can have a collecting hobby of cards or stamps, or he can build up a system for himself. If a child is not given something to do, he will get into bad social or mental! Habits. This problem of educating the brilliant child is one that cannot be neglected. Our object is to give him an education that will make him a leader, because from the superior children must come our leaders, since creative work is possible only by them. There are such children equipped mentally for real leadership. In some parts of this country we do have to contribute funds for the study of music and art for the brilliant student, but we have not yet made communities interested in furthering the intellectual achievement of a brilliant child in their midst by giving him advanced college or professional work, 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SOCIAL SERVICE CASE WORK DEPARTMENT Counselor Amy Brown Lyman presided, assisted by Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Annie W. Cannon, Mrs. Amy W. Evans The subject considered in this department was Social Case Work. It was discussed as follows: (a) Definition and Scope, Mrs. Amy W. Evans, member of the General Board; (b) Essentials of a Family Plan, Counselor Amy B. Lyman; (c) Case Presentations, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon and Mrs. Emma A. Empey, members of the General Board, and by Mrs. Lyman. The object of the meeting was to gain a better understanding of family problems and of how to help people out of difficult situations. WHAT IS SOCIAL CASE WORK? Mrs, Amy, W. Evans, Member of the General Board Case work is difficult to define, but all the cases cited this afternoon will lead towards a definition. Social work has several different forms. First, social reform, which aims, through educational work and social legislation, to improve conditions in the mass. Obvious results of social reform are better working conditions, such as the eight hour law, minimum wage, protection of life and health in industry, and child labor laws. Better health conditions come from protection of the water supply, milk supply, from pure food laws, public health movements, tuberculosis campaigns, and better housing. These improvements result from social reform. Programs for the right use of leisure time provide further benefits. One important form of social endeavor is group work, It includes settlement houses, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, our Bee-Hive girls, and similar movements. Social research is a form of investigation which makes original discoveries in any field of social work and re-interprets facts for use in these various fields. Case work deals with the individual who is striving to effect a better adjustment between himself and the world in which he must live. Case work requires insight into personality, which it aims to develop and change in the right direction; it must have insight also into the resources, dangers, and influences of the social environment of those in need. Case workers must have the closest association with families - in order to help them in times of crisis and strain. There is no phase of family life that the case worker does not consider. Our organization comes into contact with thousands of families and with all types of family situations. Though case work is old, yet the systematizing of its processes is comparatively new. These RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 307 processes have been developed out of past experiences of social research through case work. Social reform has grown largely out of case work, as case workers come in first-hand contact with the needs and bring them to the attention of society. Mrs. Evans then cited a case Mustang her points. ESSENTIALS OF A FAMILY PLAN Counselor Amy Brown Lyman Mrs. Lyman stated that the object of social work is to conserve families?to save and preserve them, to raise human life to its highest level; it is not merely to give relief. The giving of relief may or may not be necessary, but if given and wherever given, it should be in connection with a plan to remedy the whole situation and not merely to relieve the condition momentarily. It is often possible to relieve a situation without giving any money relief whatever. Other instances may require temporary relief only: and there are instances where the disability is permanent and where aid must likewise be permanent. A plan is an organized scheme for the care and betterment of a family. Before an efficient plan can be created, careful study must be made. Such a plan involves gathering all available information concerning the health, finances, family relations, school life, and history of the family's past adjustments. Just as a doctor must know family history and habits to help him in diagnosing a medical problem, so must the social worker have information in order to diagnose and solve an economic problem. The doctor can't make a good plan if he doesn't know the details. Neither can the social worker. Mrs. Lyman stressed the importance of giving no relief except emergency relief, unless it is part of a plan. Two examples of treating families were given?one in which there was no plan, and the other in which there was a carefully worked out plan, based upon a knowledge and understanding of actual conditions. Some of the disadvantages of giving relief without a plan were pointed out as follows: danger of either neglect or giving more assistance than is necessary; the family is wrongly judged: the family's standards of living are lowered; nothing is done to remove underlying causes; the ward is unable to estimate accounts. Advantages of giving relief to further a plan were listed as follows: the family is not neglected nor over indulged; the underlying causes of dependency are corrected or removed; there is a closer understanding between ward and family: the standards of the family are bettered, not destroyed; the ward is better able to estimate accounts. 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE GROUP AND FAMILY COUNCILS Mrs. Anme Wells Cannon, Member of the General Board Having been a Relief Society worker all my life, I know the problems that confront you, and how much in need we are at all times to secure any system that will make the work more satisfactory. I love the Relief Society work and workers, and am interested in you all. The sisters who have addressed you this afternoon have mentioned some things that we have neglected. One is, we have not realized that, as taxpayers, we are entitled to assistance from the state, county, and city in our work; and we have not co-operated enough with them, nor taken advantage of the opportunities in our midst. We have not such places as settlement houses; but there are centers where foreign women and others are instructed in certain things and Americanization work is carried on. Then there is the State Department of Rehabilitation. It is surprising how few take advantage of this splendid work. You have just heard Sister Lyman tell the story of the boy who lost his limbs and artificial ones were obtained for him; then he was referred to the State Department of Rehabilitation, under whose supervision he was trained to be a telegraph operator, and finally received fine remunerative work. This department does a splendid work, but how many of our women have taken advantage of this? It is my privilege to present a case to illustrate one form of our work, that of group work, and to show how through the council a case may be settled without any particular expense. So often we neglect to bring families together sufficiently, where if we did they might solve their own problems. The case I am going to present is the case of a Sicilian family; not local, though it might happen in mining districts. A Sicilian woman, widowed nine years, was found living in damp, dark quarters with a little daughter eleven years old. The mother, who could not speak English, was suffering from rheumatism. The little girl was pretty, and left to her own desires, was found wayward and a truant from school. Here are two problems for the social worker?the gentle care and comfort of the mother and the proper care and discipline of the daughter. This case was under the direction of the social worker for one and one-half years before it was settled. It was finally worked out with visits back and forth between relatives and other children, which made a much happier condition in the family life. But it was mainly through the efforts of the group and the bringing together of the family and co-operating and counseling with them, that so much good was done at such a minimum of expense. Among us we have similar problems and cases. It is not a
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 309
good plan to separate families. In the case cited it was better to put the girl under the care of a younger woman, than to have her in her own home; but as a general rule it is not a good plan to separate families. In all our Relief Society work I hope that none of us lose the real spirit of our calling. I think, in spite of all the technique that we can bring into our ministry in trying to heal the sick and care for the needy, we should aim to unite the intelligence of the mind with the sympathy of the heart, and keep the spirit of the Lord in our work. The knowledge of good well done is happiness.
CHILD-PLACING
Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Member of the General Board
Mrs. Empey discussed briefly the problem of child-placing and presented a child-placing case. She stated that there are a number of reasons for taking children from their homes, but no home should be broken up because of mere poverty. Immorality, venereal disease, drunkenness, or feeble-mindedness on the part of the mother are sufficient causes for the removal of children from their homes and placing them with agencies qualified to take care of them.
It isn't a hard matter to give a child away, for there are always plenty of people who want children. But great care should be exercised in the selection of a home for dependent children. The social worker should determine the family's reasons for wanting the child, and their plans for its education and future should be taken into consideration. The attitude of the other children, if there are any, toward another child coming into the family, should be known, also the make-up of the household, the health of the members, and their relations to each other, the family finances, their standing in the community and neighborhood, and their church affiliations. Good placement should provide a dependent child with the best possible chance of well-being and development.
There are four kinds of homes for children?the free home where people are willing to take a child and care for it free of charge; the boarding home where people are paid for the child's care; the working home where the child is old enough to earn his board; and the adoption home, where children are adopted. No one, not fully qualified by training and experience, should undertake this important work.
TRANSPORTATION CASE
Mrs. Lyman discussed a transportation case, showing the bad results from shipping a homeless man from one community to another at great expense to the agencies involved, and without bettering the condition of the man or making him satisfied.
310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SUMMARY OF DISCUSSION
Mrs. Evans gave a brief summary of the discussions. She felt that in all the cases cited the good of the individual was the main consideration. Personal assets, the family resources, and the individual resources have all to be discovered and marshalled for the benefit of the one in need. The Savior spent his life among those who were unfortunate, saying that the whole needed no physician. In our efforts to help one another we are helping to strengthen the chain of humanity; but we must remember that the chain is no stronger than its weakest link. In trying to strengthen the weak links in our social chain, we are rendering a great service. We should always keep in mind one of the fundamentals of social case work, which is that we should minister to the strength of the people and not to their weaknesses. We can judge all of our work by that fundamental. If we are helping people to become stronger and to attain a higher plane of living through our efforts, to that extent we are doing a good work.
National Conference of Social Work
Mrs. Lyman, who is President of the Utah State Conference of Social Work, announced the meeting of the National Conference of Social Workers to be held in San Francisco from June 26 to July 3, to which all social workers are invited.
CHORISTERS' AND ORGANISTS' DEPARTMENT
Mrs. Ida P. Beal presided, assisted by Mrs. Elise B. Alder
Mrs. Afton L. Langton took the subject, "What Have You Accomplished with the Ten Minutes Allowed for Weekly Community Singing Practice?" Emphasizing the urgent need of singing practice and the selection of songs that correlate with the lessons, she urged that the chorister be thoroughly prepared in advance, so that the practice can be put through in ten minutes.
Mrs. Pearl K. Davis argued that it is a wonderful accomplishment to have the sisters memorize the music. In a demonstration of teaching and developing the song, she pointed out that the chorister should proceed carefully, thoroughly, and teach a few songs thoroughly rather than to rush rapidly through many songs.
MUSIC IN THE ORGANIZATION
Professor Edward P. Kimball
When Mrs. Beal said that we ought to know how important music is in our church activity, the question runs through my mind, after twenty-five or thirty years of experience, do we really
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 311
know? We are playing music all the time, and if we are to get the real value out of it, it is not enough just to participate. We know how to run an automobile if we own one; but if something goes wrong, how many know how to fix it? Well, music is a good deal the same. We can all participate; but how many really know the music?
The subject of music is so large that I can hope to strike only the high places; but if anything is to be added to religious services by music, it will not be by mere participation. Music, no more mysterious than language or washing dishes, must have a place and purpose in your organization. Its purposes are three: entertainment, worship, and recreation; and it should be instructive in all three of its phases. When we are singing spiritual songs, we should sing them with the same spirit with which we pray. After one has heard a piece, he should be richer in soul than before.
People learn to sing by singing, as they learn to spell by spelling. In my own teaching I find that there are three things necessary?interest, progress, and practice?all closely related. If a pupil makes no progress he loses interest, and if he loses interest he will not practice. If you keep your organization singing, not just casually, but with a purpose in mind, until you are proud of it, then you will keep your practice moving and insure progress and interest.
Professor Kimball gave a fine discussion and demonstration of part singing and time beating.
General Session (Thursday Morning) SALT LAKE TABERNACLE
President Louise Y. Robison
We are most happy to greet you here this morning under such favorable conditions. It seems to me that the women of the Latter-day Saints should have more gratitude than anybody else in the world for the restoration of the gospel. You know at the time the gospel was restored women had very few privileges, in an educational way, or in a financial way, or even in the home. But when the gospel was restored, and our Father in heaven graciously gave that revelation through the Prophet Joseph Smith for Emma Smith and the women of the Church, it seems to me that it opened the door for women in every direction, and here this morning the Church Authorities and the Presiding Bishopric have kindly allowed us to use this magnificent building in which to hold our meetings.
312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
In reading magazine articles and in hearing lectures many of us are truly shocked to hear of home conditions throughout the world?that people are getting away from the home atmosphere and those fine high ideals which the Latter-day Saints have always had. Today we thought it would be profitable to speak about our homes, as I believe the women of this Church will be called upon to uphold the standards of real home living; for we believe that home life will exist in the hereafter. Grateful for the children whom our Father gives to us, our best efforts should be to make of these children the fine, splendid men and women that we should like to contribute to the Church and to the world.
Yesterday our meetings dealt with outline work; today the time will be spent in trying to instill into our minds the things that will help us in our homes. Latter-day Saint women should have homes where the spirit of God resides, and from which we may give to the world boys and girls who are clean, pure, and honest. Elder Melvin J. Ballard, when going to the South American Mission, took with him pictures of the mountains; but when he got to South America, he found that higher mountains than ours were there. He took pictures of public buildings, but found in South America finer public buildings than ours. He took also a picture of a group of fine boys (and I think he might have taken an equally good picture of girls), saying, here is a group of young men who are morally pure, who have never tasted liquor nor tobacco; and such a picture as that South America could not produce. Now, if the women of this Church can give to the world, not only a hundred or a thousand, but tens of thousands of boys and girls who are morally pure and clean, honest in their dealings, and with high ideals, no other contribution that we can make will be so worthy.
HOME AS A BASIC INSTITUTION
Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of the General Board
Home is a basic institution. In the total scheme of things the family occupies a unique place. It is older than history. It has come down through the countless changes of the ages, always meeting the fundamental needs of humanity. Out of it have grown government, industrial order, and religion. Today, the changing status of women, brought about by our economic and social developments due to science and invention, and the complexity of modern society may threaten the very foundations of the home; but it is an institution of stout fibre, able to defeat these dangers. With each change in society, we realize that the family is more important in the nurture and development of mankind. Society cannot exist without the background of the hearthstone, the bond between the generations. The family fulfills the fundamental desire of every human being to possess and to be possessed?to be
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 313
himself and yet to be part and parcel of the life of others, and to have an anchorage, no matter how he may depart from it. We believe that family life will still continue to be the anchorage of the race here and that in the life to come family relationships will go on; that father, mother, brother, sister, will meet and find joy and happiness in its sacred bonds.
HEALTH STANDARDS IN THE HOME
Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Member of the General Board
Health standards in the home should include sanitation and public health as well as personal health. No matter how much effort one puts forth in the interest of personal cleanliness and personal health, it would be of little avail if one comes in direct contact with bad sanitation, polluted water, and unclean food. So, in our health standards, there are two viewpoints to be considered?public health and personal health.
Relief Society women should be interested in problems of public health as they affect the home and the community?in the water supply, in plumbing, in the protection of food from contamination, in proper disposal of garbage, in fresh air, in ventilation of homes and public buildings. Women's influence in this matter is most telling.
The American health standard includes a yearly physical examination?examination of the teeth and early attention to the eyes, ears, nose and throat. It is important to establish, as early in life as possible, proper health habits and high standards of cleanliness. One of the most important things in the world is good health, which, like youth, is rarely appreciated until it is lost.
INDUSTRY IN THE HOME
Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Member of the General Board
Industry is necessary to physical and mental health. No woman who understands the laws of health will shirk activity. All hygiene advisers declare that beauty is attained only by physical exercise. Brain work is an absolute necessity for mental health; so is physical labor; neither is complete without the other. Without the support of the physical, the spiritual life could not long survive.
Industrious habits have a close connection with peace of mind; and idleness is far more dangerous than work; it is the nature of life to grow by exercise. It is a moral and social wrong when girls are brought up helpless in the home. It is still worse when they come to think it not respectable to be industrious. Girls should begin when young to take an interest in the family, and daily should do something for its comfort. What we cause our children to desire is of more importance than what we make them learn.
314 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Industry, whether it be hard labor or exercise of the mind, is that by which the great and good of our sex have been distinguished. It is by the application of this principle to their lives that women have become truly good or great. It is said of Jesus that He went about doing good; industry was a prominent trait of His character; and no one can truly say he is a faithful follower of Jesus unless his faith is made manifest by his works.
In the domestic circle, industry makes home happy, for women require intelligence to guide their efforts and direct their energies. A short eighty-two years ago, the pioneers, equipped only with faith and the blessings of industry, came to a vast and vacant space. The fruition of their faith is often extolled; but the glory of their industry is too often forgotten. Slowly but surely they wrested from the stubborn earth the necessities of life. The strength and fibre of our institutions of today are a result of the toil in the pioneer home.
WHAT MOTHER TEACHES
Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Member of the General Board
I am thinking of the Latter-day Saint home where the mother and her children do the work and the cooking. In this home there lives the greatest teacher, and she does not know it. This mother, if she understands her opportunity, will gather her little flock around her when a new baby is coming into the home, will tell them that a great event is going to happen?that God is sending another life into their home for them to cherish. The children will be awakened to a trust and a love of God that will never leave them. It will establish a foundation of faith that, though the waters and the tempests of the world rage about, they will never affect them. They will look upon the possession of brothers and sisters as wealth, not as privation, and upon the establishment of the family as the greatest achievement of life. With this foundation they are ready to go well equipped out into the world.
The naming of the baby should be impressed upon children. Teach them that it is a privilege to take the baby to be blessed in the congregations of the Saints, a marvelous privilege that was given to the women anciently, and is given now. Never mind whether the baby looks so nice in its clothes, never mind whether the baby cries, the thing to listen to is the marvelous blessing that is pronounced upon it?a blessing that will follow it through life.
Then there is the blessing upon the food. We get into the habit of thinking it is just a little form. No; let the children understand that this is a psalm of thanksgiving to God for making the earth yield its bounties that we may survive.
Then there is baptism. Mothers, see to it that your children understand what step they are taking; let them know the import-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 315
ance of baptism; tell them to listen to the marvelous words of the Elder as he stands waist deep in the water?to listen as he says, "Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ..." Tell them that nothing greater in the world could be said to them, and they will not have any fear of the water, and will understand what baptism means. This same teaching should be given when they are confirmed the next day?to listen to the marvelous promises, and to know that these are given with the same authority that Christ had.
How we love to read the simple narrative of the first miracle performed by Christ! We love it; we read it again and again. Do we teach our children that a miracle is performed before their eyes whenever men holding the authority take sweet oil, used as a food throughout the world, and consecrate it from a common to a sacred purpose, to be used in the household of faith? Let the children see what this wonderful ordinance has done, and let them know that it was done by the same power that Christ exercised when He changed the water into wine. Thus shall we magnify the little things in our home, and our children shall know that these are not forms, but the greatest gifts that can be bestowed.
INFLUENCE IN THE HOME
Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, Member of the General Board
Of all human influences, those of home are the most far-reaching. Recent investigations indicate that character traits are developed in infancy and childhood. The love natural to motherhood is fundamental in child training. It needs, however, to be guided by intelligence, and by wisdom derived from study. Love should be manifest always in doing that which will be for the ultimate best good of the child, not merely in yielding to his whims. This calls for insight into child nature, knowledge of how habits are formed, and how to use means of control in forming them.
The example of the mother will be very helpful to the child. Example, always the best teacher, trains in habits of cleanliness, truthfulness, dependability, and service. By example of parents, primarily, these should be taught, and by training the child to behave in these ways.
The home is for the child, not merely for adults, with child activity branded as a nuisance?an attitude that tends to drive children away from home and parental influences. Children should be trained early to work, that is, to perform simple tasks at regular times as their contribution to family needs. In this way they develop habits of industry, also individual and social responsibility.
In early youth care should be taken to recognize budding manhood and womanhood. The youth cannot be treated as a child. Thus to treat him insults his personality and endangers parental
316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
influence. Ordinary shortcomings should be treated with great patience and hope. We should always see the best that is in him, and manifest confidence in the possibility of his realizing the best rather than the worst side of his nature. Help him to overcome evil with good?to find joy in hard work and high purposes.
One writer has said that parents should try to remain youthful, to see life through their children's eyes, to look at youth's point of view; then we might see a decrease in the number of child problems. By trying to understand our children, we can make them stronger, better, more helpful, happier and more contented. A tremendous growth is taking place during the adolescent period?a broadening of thinking, a deepening of the emotions. Problems that cause friction at this time are characteristic of the period rather than of the child. Remember that "a soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger." If we would control our children, we must learn to control ourselves. In character we must be what we wish them to become. No school, however dedicated, no church, however consecrated, can take the place of home. It is the home and home people that educate for character.
OPPORTUNITY OF OLD AGE
Mrs. Elise B. Alder, Member of the General Board
"For age is opportunity, no less Than youth itself, though in another dress, And as the twilight fades away The sky is filled with stars invisible by day."
Another writer has said, "To know how to grow old is the master work of wisdom, and one of the most difficult chapters in the great art of living." He further says, "Old age is a time for learning the relation of past, present, and future. It is the decorative age, when, like the autumn leaves, life may take on its glory."
There are many aged persons who find it possible to enjoy a fair degree of health, who have good dispositions, and are able to engage in some helpful employment. There are wonderful opportunities for the aged to teach the young, both by precept and example. As we grow older, life holds for us that which we have stored up within us. Books leave their traces in our minds; and the thoughts, passages and experiences of others we have stored away, we may call forth at will. Correct English enriches our lives. Women in middle age are realizing the possibilities and advantages of training, and are reaching out, and grasping opportunities. Teachers and class leaders should not tire in urging to activ-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 317
ity, but instead of putting away all outside interests and duties, they should encourage larger fields of usefulness, where woman's influence for good may be exerted all through life. These women should not be expected to drop out of activity, but to find new fields of service. The church, the community, and the home, all need the wide outlook, the wisdom, and the sympathy which come with the best type of mature age.
THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN
Mrs. Eleanor B. Richards, Member of the General Board
Children should be trained rather than governed by punishment. Should be kept. Children's questions should be answered truthfully, avoiding exaggerations. Property rights of each member of the family should be respected. Articles brought in should be accounted for, and owners sought for, all found articles
318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
THE SPIRIT OF THE MASTER
Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, Member of the General Board
"Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou had'st been here, my brother had not died."
If men had exercised more faith in the power of the Redeemer, and followed his admonition given as a new commandment to "love one another," peace and love, instead of strife and bitterness, would have filled their hearts. It has been my good fortune to witness among us, through our acts, the presence of the Redeemer, made manifest in our love for others, and in help extended to lead them in the path of righteousness and everlasting life.
Sometimes, however, I have been made to wonder if ever we have caused anyone to cry out in anguish, as did Martha when her brother died. Are we loyal to each other, to our officers, to the Priesthood, to the organizations of the Church? Do we follow the great commandment to love our neighbors as ourselves? Or do we secretly hate and refuse to speak to them? Do we take advantage of the widow and the orphan, or do we exemplify the spirit of the Master by extending a helping hand? As mothers, do we appreciate the true beauties of motherhood, the wonderful privilege that is ours, and do we endeavor to train our children in all righteousness? At times we are lifted up in vain pride, in under-estimation of true values, seeking the satisfaction of the moment rather than eternal treasures. Is the presence of our Master shown by example as well as by precept in the training of our children? Or is it through lack of our effort that they fall or die?
May we diligently strive to follow the teaching of the Master, that never through any act of ours shall we cause our own or strangers to condemn our course or cry unto the heavens, "Lord, if thou had'st been here, my brother had not died."
MUSIC?ITS MESSAGE AND MINISTRY
Mrs. Ida P. Beal, Member of the General Board
Music is everywhere recognized as one of the most potent of civilizing influences. It is certainly inspiring and gladdening in its immediate effects, and there is scarcely a thinker or philosopher who does not consider its beneficial effects to be lasting. Appreciation of good music, however, comes through culture. Music is a universal language?the language of the emotions. The best music is often the simplest, lying easily within a child's comprehension, and is a vital factor in his life. Every child should grow up in a home where music is played and sung, and where the art is encouraged. It will be a blessed memory to him and his soul will be sweetened thereby. In these days, music is not looked
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 319
upon as a luxury, but as a necessity?one of the chief agencies for understanding and enjoyment. One of the elevating and inspirational gifts of God to His children, it spurs us on to deeds that are higher and nobler, and thus aids in the building of character. In our material, bustling age, to add balance to our lives, we need beauty?the message of music to make us sensitive to loveliness.
Community singing has always been a stimulant to tired, weary men and women; it was a real tonic to the pioneers as they traveled westward. Music renders a large and liberating ministry to humanity. It is more than a thing to relieve the tedium of tired hours, more than a thing to be bought and paid for in concert halls. All through the ages mankind has found many uses for this art, especially indispensable in amusement. From the jazz band to the intricate performance of a symphony orchestra, music has been the invoker of joy. Where there is music and laughter, there is gladness of heart. Music is a great asset to the laboring man. His task is not so irksome and heavy when he has a song on his lips.
One of God's gifts to His children has been music. It is a medium through which we draw closer to Him, and by which we express our love and admiration of Him. The song of the righteous is a prayer unto God, an expression of divine adoration. The rich tones of the organ and the radiant strains of song are inseparable from the common man's idea of worship. Many a man has been made better, purer and a more liberal Christian by hearing a mighty multitude unite in one loud, glorious song of praise.
LOYALTY IN THE HOME
Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Member of the General Board
Many years, even centuries ago, Plato was asked this question: "What is the best education?" "It is," he answered, "that which gives to the body and to the soul all the beauty and all the perfection of which they are capable." Beauty is a quality of divinity; to live much with the beautiful is to live close to the divine. "The more we see of beauty everywhere, in nature, in life, in man and child, in work and rest, in the outward and the inward world, the more we see of God." Beauty, like happiness, comes from within. Much depends upon our own state of mind as to whether we are happy, and to appreciate the beautiful brings joy and happiness. We must cultivate the ability to see the beauties surrounding us, the ear to hear the beautiful sounds on every side, and to fill our minds with beautiful thoughts. We do not need to have an elegantly furnished home to have a home of beauty?it is the lives of those who live therein that make home beautiful.
320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
MRS. KATE M. BARKER Member of the General Board
To the women of the Church our Heavenly Father has been wonderfully good in giving us this organization, where we have such rich opportunities for service both in relief work and in helping to build up Zion?the abode of the pure in heart. Great as is the work of relief which seeks where there is anything wrong to bring the remedy, equally great is the work of prevention. In looking after the physical health of the community we have learned that it is not enough to reduce the dangers of exposure to disease, to the minimum, but it is also imperative to have proper clothing, exercise, and diet, so that we may build up bodily resistance. So that we may hedge our youth around and try to shield them from temptation by forbidding tobacco advertising, by prohibition, and law enforcement, yet there is but one real safety: We must so build up the spiritual resistance of youth that it shall be able to repel temptation. Our great work in prevention consists in building spiritual resistance within the very heart of the home. Its work lies with the mothers; if the mothers are right, the homes will be wholesome. If the homes are wholesome, the children will be strong physically, mentally, and spiritually; and all will be well in the state and in the Church.
We cannot separate religion from life; and if we have built homes on the spiritual foundation, then everything fine and beautiful that we can bring into those homes is part of our religion. What makes for better health, for greater satisfaction in life, and gives us power to develop our inborn possibilities by work and study, and to honor the counsels and commandments of the Lord and enjoy the peace and comfort of prayer, than the religion of Jesus Christ? All these things are taken into our homes by 62,000 women and will build for the abundant life and the making of a strong, efficient, happy people.
MRS. MARCIA K. HOWELLS Member of the General Board
I have lately been thinking of our motto, "Charity Never Faileth." It brings a satisfying thought?one that we may profitably consider. You will remember that when the Prophet Joseph organized the Society in 1842, with its eighteen original members, he told those sisters that the object of the Relief Society was to save souls, take care of the poor, minister to the sick, and foster a love for religion. The Relief Society is doing all these things, and even more than these original purposes and ideals seemed to sug-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 321
gest. This wonderful audience today testifies to the growth of the Relief Society, and shows that it has been a most worthwhile work.
If there could be a record of all the work of the Relief Society sisters, it would be most interesting. There is not a mission, stake, or ward where charity work is not being done; and when we think that "Charity Never Faileth," it makes us happy. At the time Jesus was on the earth, He and His disciples taught charity by precept and example. You know that love and charity are sometimes used interchangeably. They are much alike, and we know that God is love; therefore charity is a god-like characteristic. We are told that charity suffereth long and is kind, and that charity envieth not, and of the three characteristics, faith, hope, and charity, the greatest is charity. Since it is so desirable a characteristic, I wonder if we think about taking it into our homes as much as we do into the community.
General Session (Thursday Afternoon) SALT LAKE TABERNACLE
PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS
As we came out from the Temple a few moments ago, and I saw this line of women coming to the Tabernacle, I asked if it was in the Tabernacle that the Relief Society conference was to be held. The answer was yes, and I wondered why that was necessary. It is all explained now that I see this large congregation.
Yesterday, as I was at work in my room in the Church Office Building, I heard a baby voice saying, "Ma! Ma! Ma!" I went to the north window, and there on the lawn, with a woman's coat under it, I saw a baby sitting. Naturally the child attracted my attention, and I stood looking at it. In a few moments a woman, frail looking, came round the corner of the building, went to the baby, and gathered it up in her arms. A little girl, whose head came to the mother's shoulder, was walking by her side, and three little boys, each with a cheap toy in his hands, trotted along behind. Gathering up the child, the mother said, "Come along, boys," and started out toward the street. The whole story was told to me as I stood there looking. The woman was comfortably, but rather poorly clothed. The clothing of the children was ordinary, but looked comfortable. They all appeared to be happy. As I stood there I offered a prayer of thanksgiving to God our Father for women, for mothers, for women who were ready to take up the responsibility of wifehood, of motherhood, of life, even under adverse circumstances, giving, as I knew this little woman had, her life for those children.
322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
All the wealth of the world could not purchase one of them from her. She does not live in a palace, she does not enjoy the luxuries of life. I do not know who she was or is, but I felt like going out and blessing her. If it fell to my lot to undertake to lay the foundations of an empire, a kingdom, I would want just such women as that, and just such men as I have come in contact with in the humbler paths of life, to go with me to perform that undertaking.
I am strongly of the opinion that the safety and welfare of the world have always depended upon women. They seem to be more susceptible to spirituality. They are attracted to the truths of the gospel; they are more ready to make sacrifices; they are more devoted and are less likely to forget the covenants they enter into than are men. I would not say this to the detriment of good men, but I am firmly of the opinion that my conclusion is a correct one, and I see in this body of women before me what I saw in that little mother yesterday?women of faith, of devotion, women who are willing to make sacrifice, women from whom their faith could not be purchased with the wealth of the world.
I grew up in the Relief Society, my mother being an active worker in it. I have traveled with her in my childhood as she visited the stake; been with her in meetings; know of her devotion; remember the counsels that she always gave; sense the goodness of her heart. The poor never passed from our door without relief, and we were not very plentifully blessed with the good things of life, either; but she fed her thousands, as did her sister, the mother of President Grant. When I think of these things I thank God for my mother, just as your children thank Him for you. I pray that His blessing may be upon you; that you may continue to become more numerous, until after a while the Tabernacle will hardly be large enough to hold you.
PRESIDENT CHARLES W. NIBLEY
My dear Relief Society workers, laborers in the vineyard of the Lord: I greet you with love and blessing and congratulation also?congratulation for the splendid work you are doing. What a world of good these organizations of the Church have accomplished since they were first instituted! We know what the program is, what the outline is. We get a general idea of this kind of work, but I want to say to you that I believe the real work, the great empire of work, I might say, is done humbly in the wards of the Church all over the world, where the sick are ministered to, where our sisters sit up nights, where they minister to the poor. I have said, thousands of times I suppose, that I do not know what the poor would do without the poor. That is where the hard work, the strenuous work, is done. I do not disparage the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 323
work that is done by these sisters on the stand?they have been through all that also; but the untold amount of good, of comfort and blessing, that has been bestowed by the ministering angels of the Relief Society, is in all the wards of the Church.
The Lord bless you in this your fine work. Nothing that you can do is more helpful, I think, in the Church, than the work that you are doing. It has been well organized during the past years, it has been well administered, and the Lord's blessing has attended it and will attend it, I am sure, from this time on. That this may be accomplished, and that our hearts may be made to rejoice in the accomplishments of this wonderful organization, I humbly pray through Jesus Christ our Lord.
REVERENCE FOR PARENTHOOD
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Member of the General Board
Heaven, I think, is very near us today. While I have been sitting on the stand and looking over this congregation of women who are giving great service to the Church, I have also had many other pictures presented to my mind. This meeting in the Tabernacle marks an epoch in Relief Society history. It was not many years ago when my mother said in the Assembly Hall that the day would soon come when the Assembly Hall would not hold the sisters of the Relief Society?our membership would have become so numerous that we should have to hold our conferences regularly in the Tabernacle. The day has now arrived.
I have felt all through this conference that the spirits of those loved who have departed, the great women of the Church, are with us, and they seem to pass before me as in a pageant. There are many changes taking place in the world today. There are wonderful inventions and discoveries along all lines, and as science has changed our mode of life, so has it changed in many ways our code of ethics and human behavior. While we realize things are different from what they have been in the past, still there are some fundamental things that time ought not to change. Some things, the dearest things in life that we should cling to, are reverence and love.
In reading the history of the great men and great women of the world, those who have written their names large on history's pages, we find the men and women who have held in reverence their parents. In the last dispensation of the fulness of times there is nothing lovelier than the story of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his love and admiration for his mother. It was to his mother that he went with all his confidences. It was his mother who helped him conceal the plates of gold before the translation of the Book of Mormon was completed, when his enemies were harassing him, and trying to steal the plates, and persecuting him. His
324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
mother wrote the story of his life from childhood, through youth to manhood, in simple, lovely words. All through the pages of that little book are mentioned the love and reverence of that man of God for his father and his mother.
Some things there are in the world more lovely than those things that can be bought with gold or precious stones: the beautiful things in nature; the joys God has given that appeal to the inner soul?the red flash of the oriole as it flies across the sky; the song of the meadowlark in early spring; the fragrance of the wild rose by the wayside; the lilt of the laughter of a little child at play, and the love and faith of that little child for the mother and father who gave it birth. These are the things of the heart that lead us on to great ideals, and that make for happiness. May the Lord help us always to remember his mercies, and to obey that great commandment, "Honor thy father and thy mother."
A LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME BASED ON A KNOWLEDGE OF THE DIVINITY OF CHRIST
Miss Alice L. Reynolds, Member of the General Board
A knowledge of the divinity of Christ is essential to a Christian life, and clearly fundamental in the life of a Latter-day Saint. In our time, many attacks have been made on this truth. Recently I read a magazine article which said, "If, indeed, Christ was more than Hamlet"?an intimation that Christ never really lived, but was the creation of the mind of some literary genius. A few years ago, on the campus of an American university, one of the students who had listened to an elder express our belief in the divinity of Christ, said to me afterwards, "Miss Reynolds, I was reared to believe the things this gentleman has spoken of; but I am afraid to speak of such things on this campus lest I be regarded as feeble-minded."
In this city I have heard a gentleman say in public address, that if tomorrow morning we could prove absolutely that Christ was not of divine origin, the educated class would say, we have always known that, and the class who are not grouped with the educated would say, we have always suspected it. Now, you and I know that, despite the gentleman's learning, he did not state the fact; because we have the witness of the holy spirit that Christ is the Son of the living God; and there is no place that is better to combat this modern falsehood than in the home.
I make an appeal to parents to guard this sacred truth. The Book of Mormon is so plain on this matter that practically every one of the prophets of that ancient record has testified concerning the divinity of Christ, and has told us also that the knowledge of His divinity comes through the ministrations of the Holy Ghost. I am grateful also, more grateful than I have ever been before in
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 325
my life, that in the vision given to the Prophet Joseph Smith the Father did not say this is Jesus of Nazareth, who was born in Bethlehem, and was crucified in Jerusalem, but that he said, "This is my beloved Son," acknowledging His Fatherhood. May this knowledge become deeper and more a part of our lives every hour that we live, because it never has been more necessary that we should know this truth than at the present timie. PRAYER IN THE HOME Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Member of the General Board Prayer is thanksgiving and an appeal for divine guidance. In this day of doubt and criticism, surely we have need of prayer. Every properly trained Latter-day Saint should be so traditioned in the habit of prayer, secret and family, that if he neglects this devotion, his conscience will prick him and he will have a feeling of something left undone. Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart therefrom. Regardless of the perplexing situations which arise to interfere with family prayer, it should still be a part of our daily program, even though all members are not always able to participate. "It is a blessed privilege," says my father, "to be in correspondence with the Lord." It is a woeful thing not to be on speaking terms with our Father in heaven. One dark, cloudy day a mother left her two small children at home alone while she attended to an important matter, During her absence a storm broke in with all the fury of thunder and lightning. The lightning struck a tree in front of her home. The children were frightened, of course; but when the mother hurriedly opened the door, she did not find the children screaming or crying, but, kneeling by a chair in the middle of the room were the little brother and sister in the attitude of prayer. How had they learned of this unseen protection? A group of young matrons were attending a luncheon in honor of some brides-to-be. Naturally their conversation turned upon problems of married life. After listening with interest to their comments, the eldest of the group said, "Well, you will have some misunderstandings, and maybe you'll quarrel; David and I do sometimes; but when he puts his arm around me and says, ?Come, now, it's time we had our prayer before I go,' I just can't be angry any more." Do you think that divorce will ever separate this couple, both of whom have come from prayer-observing homes? With what an anchor of trust and safety these children of prayerloving families leave their home each aco s Do you think they are apt to cheat and lie, steal or smoke? It has been the custom for the married children of a very busy father and mother to meet at their parental home as often as 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE circumstances will permit, to spend the evening together. Invariably the conversation turns to gospel themes. When time for "Good Night" comes, the father says, "Let us have our family prayer before you go." In this family of fourteen there is little, if any, envy or jealousy, but much of sympathy, co-operation, confidence, yes, and sacrifice, one for the other's sake. Prayer has been the golden thread that binds their lives together, the anchor holding them to their ideals, their shield in times of temptation, their comfort in times of sorrow. "O, thou by whom we come to God, The life, the truth, the way, The path of prayer thyself hath trod, Lord, teach us how to pray." READING IN THE HOME Counselor Julia A. Child The home is essentially a social organization. It is made happy and successful only as each member contributes to the welfare and pleasure of other members of the group. But, however social and spiritual the members of a family may be, life becomes clannish and sometimes even sordid without the active influence of friends and neighbors. A happy home, therefore, means good and ample friendships that have come to be enjoyed. Next to friends and personal contacts, however, and somewhat like them in influence, is good reading matter that is used and understood by the members of the family and considered a prime necessity. With reading habits well established and carefully chosen books and magazines on hand, many hours of leisure may be both a joy and a source of intellectual growth to the family group. Through books we may associate with the best people, enjoying with them the beauties of life?of color or form or song. By means of books the world of literature, science, government, and human activities is brought into the family circle. The mind is thus provided with wholesome food, the soul inspired to higher living. The home is primarily an educational institution; good books are essential, provided also that correct habits of reading are early established. A home without books or a family without the ability to read them is under a serious handicap. One writer has said, '""Open the windows in your children's souls by giving them books?keep them open by encouraging the reading habit." Parents may early create in the child a taste for good reading, not only by surrounding him with good books, but by early awakening within him a desire to become acquainted with these books. This may be done, first by story telling, later by reading to the children from classics, fairy RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 327 tales, folk tales, stories of adventure and biographies, including our own Church works, until they are able to read for themselves. Then they should be guided through the flood of juvenile books now available, some good, some indifferent, some trashy, and some positively injurious. The habit of reading good books on the part of parents and children around the fireside, is one that should be cultivated. An opportunity is thus given for discussing what is being read, and habits are established that will cling to the child through life. CHURCH STANDARDS Counselor Amy Brown Lyman There are probably no members of the Church who strive harder to live the gospel, and to keep the commandments of the Lord, than the women of the Relief Society. I always take it for granted that Relief Society women are orthodox Latter-day Saints, that they accept the gospel as a whole and in its entirety, and that they live according to its teachings. I always feel that they promote faith, bear testimony, support the Priesthood, and conform their lives generally to the plan of living which has been established by the Church. I am sure that no one who does this will go far wrong. Even if we did not believe in a hereafter, and were trying to set up a scheme of living for this life only, we could not do better than to adopt the gospel standard of living. My remarks today are not by way of criticism, but of reflection and review. I think it is a good thing occasionally to take stock, to review and survey our lives, and to see how nearly we are meeting the requirements. We are inclined sometimes to think that if we go to church, and testify of the goodness of the Lord to us, and of our beliefs?all of which are very excellent things to do?that that is enough. But I feel that there are a great many things fundamental to a righteous life; there are laws to obey, duties to perform, good works to carry forward, and standards to reach. The plan of salvation includes the principles of the gospel and practical religion, the latter covering instructions on how to conduct our lives, on our duties, on our relationship to our Heavenly Father, and on our relationship to one another. And let me say that it is much easier to believe and to testify of our beliefs, than it is to live them. In the Church today our leaders have set up standards for us, two or three of which only I shall mention. The 13th Article of Faith reads: "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men." Do we practice these things? Are we honest and truthful? Are we benevolent? We are asked to keep the Sabbath day holy, and I wonder how many 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of us do this. I wonder how many of us have standards that will permit us to go to ball games and picture shows on Sunday, or allow our minor children to do so. What are our standards with regard to Fast Day? Do we keep this law, and do we contribute funds on this day for the benefit of those in need? And what about our family prayers? Most of us, perhaps all of us, pray secretly; but I am wondering how many of us live up to this teaching, already commented upon so beautifully. It is quite an undertaking to have family prayers, but I think the mothers can do more to promote this practice than anybody else. What about tithing? Do we believe in this principle? And are we supporting our husbands in this matter? And are we teaching our minor children to pay tithing? I think that if children are not taught to pay tithing while they are young, it is almost impossible for them ever to obey this law. One more thing I would like to mention is the Word of Wisdom. I wonder how fully we are keeping it. I wonder if we make excuses because of ill health, and say we cannot get on without stimulants. I wonder if we set the proper example in this respect to our little children and grandchildren. Let us review our lives frequently and see if we are conforming to these rules and standards and duties which have been given to us. PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT It is a very inspirational sight indeed to see so many of the sisters here today. I have often remarked, as did Brother Ivins, that I have grown up in the Relief Society. I was personally acquainted with five of the original members listed here when the Society was first organized. With four of the five I was intimately associated from my earliest recollection. I rejoice in the wonderful work that has always been manifest in the Relief Society. I have often said that the picture of the leading women of the Church, a fair and honest photograph, would be a refutation of all the slanders that have ever been published against us. It is impossible for God-fearing women to have anything but noble faces. The face is an index to the character, and I have had many people say to me that they thought the finest young men that they have ever seen are our missionary boys; and the great majority of boys inherit their looks from their mothers. I know of no personal acquaintance, of any man that has made a record, that is an outstanding record for integrity to the Church, and ever accomplished anything in the battle of life, that has not had a devoted mother. Of course I can only know of my father by the remarks that people have made to me, as he died when I was only nine days of age, so that my dear mother had to be both father and mother to me. She had to be the provider for the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 42 family, as well as the one on whom devolved the care of the house. I rejoice in the wonderful example that she set for me. The principal task of my life has been to encourage people to do things?to keep the Word of Wisdom, to pay tithing, to teach the children, and to attend to family prayers. I am not a preacher on theory of the gospel, but I have tried to encourage people to do their duty. There is one thing that has been born and bred in me; that is the teaching of obedience, by my mother. If there is one thing more than another that I would like to do, with the ability which God has given me, it is to impress upon the hearts of the Latter-day Saints to keep the commandments of the Lord; to serve God with full purpose of heart. By so doing I can promise that you will grow in grace in the sight of God, and in the light, knowledge, and testimony of this great Latter- -day work, We have in very deed the true plan of life and salvation, we have the pearl of great price, we have that which is of more value than all the wealth and all the honor that can come to a man in this life. We have that which will take us back into the presence of God, to meet our loved ones who have been faithful and true. I ask God to help each and everyone of us that has a testimony of the divinity of this work, that we can say in all honesty that we know God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of the living God. I also pray that we may so live that all who come in contact with us may feel the inspiration, may know that our lives are worthy, and that we may do this and be blessed by our Father in heaven is my humble prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON My heart is so full of gratitude and thanksgiving that I am sure I cannot express what I would like to for the loyalty and the splendid courage of you, my dear sisters, who have left your homes and your families to come to this Relief Society conference. My heart goes out in prayer that our Heavenly Father will bless you, that you will have added strength, faith, and courage; that your families will be protected in your absence; and that you will return so full of faith and the spirit of the Lord that the influence in the home will be most beneficial. 1 pray too, that we shall enjoy the spirit of the Lord during the conference of the next three days, that we shall be filled with His spirit, that it may help us in our daily lives to live above the disagreeable things, and know that our l'ather in heaven is assisting us. I trust that what has been said here today will enter the hearts of you sisters, that you may carry this message back to the sisters in your wards; not only to those who come out to meetings and are filled with the desire to do right, but to some who do not have this 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE desire; that you may know how to reach their hearts and help them so that they will turn in service to our Father in heaven. We have been so favored in having the spirit of the Lord with us in all our meetings that I humbly return my thanks for it. J appreciate the courage and the support we have had by having here some of the former General Board members, who have helped to lay the foundation and make our work easy. I would like them to know that we honor them for what they have done. As a crowning blessing, we have the First Presidency of our Church with us. As I said in the beginning, my heart is full of gratitude that we were permitted by the authorities of the Church to meet in this beautiful house today. In the past we have been so crowded in the Assembly Hall that many have had to stand. But today we have the Tabernacle, and the organists to render beautiful music on this marvelous organ. We thank Professors Kimball and Schreiner for their contribution and the sisters who have furnished the music. With-all the blessing that I have in my heart I bless you, my dear sisters. I pray that you will have health and strength, and fine courage to carry on the work that you have set your hearts to do. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards, who was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society, April 2, 1921, was released during the conference, April 4, 1929, Reorganizations which have occurred since October, 1928 confenenice: Alberta Stake reorganized, August 19, 1928, Mrs. Jane W. Bates released, Mrs. Dora H. Jacobs appointed President; North Sevier Stake reorganized, October 14, 1928, Mrs, Minnie S. Dastrup released, Mrs. Melissa A. Crane appointed President; Parowan Stake reorganized, November 25, 1928, Mrs. Mary M. Marsden released, Mrs. Barbara M. Adams appointed President: Summit Stake reorganized, October, 1928, Mrs. Florence B. Crittenden released, Mrs. May Jordan appointed President; Young Stake reorganized, December 9, 1928, Mrs. Johanna S. Smith released, Mrs. L. Nettie Behrmann appointed President; Woodruff Stake reorganized, January 13, 1929, Mrs. Esther Thomas released, Mrs. Harriet Spencer appointed President; Juab Stake reorganized, March 10, 1929, Mrs. Maud Forrest released, Mrs. Edna Cazier appointed President; Australian Mission reorganized, November, 1928, Mrs. Caroline S. Hyde released, Mrs. Hazel B. Tingey appointed President; California Mission reorganized, March 13, 1929, Mrs. Margaret K. Miller released, Mrs. Charlotte C. Stahr appointed President; South African Mission reorganized, February, 1929, Mrs. Clara A. Martin released, Mrs. Geneve Dalton appointed President. The Best You Can Do By Alfred Osmond The best you can may never win a prize, Nor please the critics, scholarly and cold; But, judged by standards of the great and wise. It has a value that should be extolled. The best you can is all that God is asking; It has a rank and station with the best, Although its crudeness is a means of masking The fact that you have stood a moral test. The best you can will not accept decisions That magnify the majesty of might. The best, you can will see the clearer visions Of peace exalted to her throne of right. The best you can will never be defeated. The mangled head and bruised and bleeding feet Are tragedies the best you can has greeted As foes that it was not afraid to meet. The best you can will drive away your sorrdw And lead you to the land of happiness. The best you can will see a bright tomorrow Behind the clouds of darkness and distress. The best you can is always frank and fearless When it has found some worthy work to do. When you are sick and sad and faint and cheerless, The best you can will see you safely through. Evolution of the Ugly Duckling By Estelle Webb Thomas Part III January 15?A letter from Mother at home. Mrs. Douglas died suddenly last Sunday, and her son has taken her back to the old home for burial. Dear little lady, she seemed to love life so! I wonder why he didn't let me know? Now the other Margaret will 'marry him to comfort him while he is there, and he'll never come west again. It was for the sake of his mother's health they first came and now he is free to step into his father's practice, marry Margaret, and live happy ever after. Oh, well, why should an Ugly Duckling always be envying the Swans that swim briefly across her vision? An Ugly Duckling who will never be a swan herself?never! January 22?I've taken to writing on Friday evenings, as there is nothing to scribble about during the week, and I am still trying to appeal to the finicky appetite of those ogres?the Editors. Mr. Dixon came in at recess and told me about the Teacher's Institute. It seems he thinks we should both go; and then I had a letter from Marie Webster, my friend who teaches at Centerville, begging me to go, so I suppose I must. I surely hate the expense, as I'm saving pennies for a good typewriter and some new summer clothes. Well, the Institute will be a change, at least. Haven't heard any more about the Douglases. Mother writes but doesn't mention if the doctor has returned?and of course he won't. February 8?Institute was not at all bad! I was glad that I got me a nice party dress, for the Faculty of the State University entertained the visiting teachers at afternoon tea and a ball in the evening. In the afternoon I wore my pretty new suit with a beautiful little bouquet of violets with which Mr. Dixon unexpectedly presented me. The University Profs. And wives were lined up by the door into which we were ushered; and as we went in we introduced ourselves by name and school. To the mighty ones, and were benignly hand-shaken before we moved on. I was just behind Mr. Dixon, as that was the way we were arranged in the: line, and Marie was just behind me. Behind her was an extremely fat woman with a very flowery hat, who seemed so obsessed with her own importance that she could not wait her turn to shake hands and announce herself in her rich bass. We had got to the third faculty member, not counting wives, when a dried-up little dignitary deafly requested Mr, Dixon's name EVOLUTION OF THE UGLY DUCKLING 333 repeated, and then asked in an interested way if he were the F. L. Dixon who had been contributing articles on Rural School Problems to the State Educational Magazine. While Mr. Dixon, to my amazement, was modestly admitting this and receiving the old gentleman's effusive approbation, Marie hissed in my ear, "Will you walk a little faster," Said the whiting to the snail, "There's a porpoise close behind me And she's treading on my tail!" This familiar quotation was so apt, with the stout, porpoiselike creature impatiently shoving Marie, that I giggled right out in meeting. I could have bitten off my tongue the next instant, I was so afraid Mr, Dixon would think I was laughing at the old gentleman's fuss over him. I could not see his face but his ears, I noticed, were very red. I didn't see anything more of him until the dance, to which I went with Marie and Jack Tuttle, the fellow she is going to marry.. 1 intended to apologize to Mr. Dixon for the ill-timed giggle; but he came, as soon as I arrived, and gravely repeated the rest of the quotation from "Alice" as a request to dance: "See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance! They are waiting on the shingle; will you come and join the dance? Will you, won't you? Will you, won't you? Will you join the dance? Will you, won't you? Will you, won't you? Won't you join the dance?" I made two or three discoveries about Mr. Dixon this past week. For one thing, he is quite distinguished-looking in his quiet way. Not tall and dark, like?some people, but of medium height and slender, and looks excellent in evening clothes. Then his hair isn't gray from age, as I once supposed, but must have turned prematurely gray from sickness or trouble and lends an air of distinction to his still youthful face. I am sure he isn't more than thirtyfive, though I might have guessed him fifty a month ago. The fact is, I never really looked at the man till I saw so much attention paid him at the Institute. Can it be that he is burying himself in country schools for the purpose of studying conditions there? And what on earth does he say about Primary teachers, who don't amount to much at their best, and often aren't at their best? My blood runs cold! I am going to concentrate, on making a good impression o: that man, or rather on correcting the bad one I must certainly have made! How glad the school children will be! February 15?I've been so busy imparting knowledge, writing reams of unsalable stuff, and making a good impression on Mr. 334. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Dixon (in a strictly professional way, of course) that I have neglected my diary?haven't recorded any heart-throbs for nearly a month; but if there had been anything of importance happen, I should have recorded that fast enough! This means, of course, that I have never heard a word of a certain dark-eyed young doctor since he cast me and my belongings on the morning train for Pine Valley, six weeks ago! Mother, in the most provoking way, writes long letters, concerned chiefly. With the dear Professor's doings and 'sayings, and never mentions our next-door neighbor's whereabouts. I hate to ask outright?the Professor is always scenting a romance! I suppose Margaret has married him by this time. (Not the Professor, of course!) Just like her! To nab him the first time he showed his head in her neighborhood again! All right for you, Margaret! I only hope he turns out to be a regular bear, and makes you regret your piggishness a thousand times over! There! I feel better, now; what a comfort a diary is! March 15?I was surprised on the Friday afternoon after my last entry, to have Mr. Dixon come into my room as I was straightening my desk for the night and ask rather diffidently if I would like a tramp over the hills with him. He had noticed that I looked rather pale lately, and fancied I sat too much over my writing. Now, who told you that I am trying to write?" I asked indignantly, for I thought I had kept that little matter a secret, but he answered with a smile that he had seen several of my little things in the magazines, and liked them immensely. Then he went on to tell me that he was gathering material for some articles on the flora and fauna of this region??hence the walks. Well, I went and came home for Mrs. Lowell's early supper really refreshed, going at my evening's work with more interest than for many a day. Since then the tramps have become almost an institution. Mr. Dixon is an interesting talker and I've learned a lot of things about natural history that I would never have known otherwise. I asked him if he is a naturalist in disguise, and he owned that he is getting material for a book, and chose a country school that he might have the opportunity to study his subject at first hand. I am dying of curiosity to know something of his personal history, but never talks personalities, and of course I can't ask. April 3?School will be out in three weeks, O, joy! And yet Vil suse miss the interesting times I've had with Mr. Dixon and all the dear little pests I've struggled with this past winter; even Mrs. Lowell's ""Neow, Honey, make out a meal, don't be so dainty!" that has vexed me so many times. I had a love letter today from Johnny Hackett, the school tough?he pressed it into my hand as the line marched out, eon EVOLUTION OF THE UGLY DUCKLING 335 "Dere Techer "I luv yu ef I doan ack like it. It maks me cri to thinck school will clos so sune. I am shur sorry I hav bin so onerly. Am goin to do beter. I will allus luv yu., 'Yur dere pupal, "J. H." There, dare to say I am not attractive enough to inspire the divine passion!. April 10?A whole budget of home letters tonight. One from Mother and the Professor full of news about home affairs, the repainting of the house, Mother's room done over, the garden they are planting, and the flock of new Rhode Island Reds. One from Inez full of clothes and views and lovely times and, incidentally, Henley. But the most exciting of all from Lisbeth, who writes to announce her engagement to her music teacher, who isn't a longhaired Italian or a German with a bay window, as she says she knew I would at once imagine, but a real one-hundred-percent! American, with a first-class family and world's of ambition. It was a real treat to get news of them all at once; but since supper while I have been sitting up here alone in my room reading the letters all over again I must confess I've felt more forlorn and Ugly Ducklingish than ever. Everyone seems so full of happy plans and none of them seem to include me?at any rate my dropping out would not change them one whit. How nice it would be to be first with somebody! Ugly Ducklings don't change into Swans, I've found that out! They just. Keep on being Ugly Ducklings to the end of the chapter, and nobody cares! I fancy I see people going off and forgetting all about Inez or Lisbeth! But perhaps I had best be satisfied with what comes my way, not always be trying to stretch my ugly wings and follow the larks! April 17?Big preparations for closing exercises in the school. Inez writes she is sending me a dress??the very latest?to dazzle the natives with (her own words) before I turn my back on them forever. She evidently takes it for granted that my little attempt at teaching is over. I'm not so sure?I shall teach till my literary wings are strong enough for a flight into that enchanted region and then if I'm successful?who knows, I may be "the clever, distinguished Miss Wallace" long after Inez and Lisbeth are humdrum married ladies with prosy, unromantic husbands! Signed, Old Sour Grapes. 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Part IV April 24?-So much to write I don't know where to start; but I'm far too wide awake and excited to go to bed, and J want to record all the wonderful happenings before the new wears off. Our Closing Exercises went off with a bang! Parents invited, children delighted, teachers excited?that is the Primary teacher, who was in a fever from dawn till now. And with cause! After the morning session was over, reports signed and distributed, books put away. For the summer, and all the hundred odds and ends attended to, there was still an afternoon of preparation for the evening entertainment. Mr. Dixon had pleaded ignorance and total inability to help with this, but promised to do all my despised report making if I would prepare the big "Do" alone. I was to use all the available talent in his room as well as my own. Now, I love that sort of thing, but it was an extremely weary, flushed, disheveled girl that concluded the final rehearsal at four p. M. And sent the children home for their suppers and to make their toilets for the evening. Mr. Dixon came out of the little office as the children filed out, with all the neatly finished yearly reports in his hands. He looked startled at sight of me and said with more impulsiveness than I have ever heard him speak, '""How tired you look!" I was really so tired that his sympathetic tone almost brought tears to my eyes. And when he asked if a little walk wouldn't refresh me before the evening's ordeal, I said yes out of gratitude, though I wanted nothing but to go home and have a hot bath and a long quiet hour in my room. But he seemed to read my thought for when we reached the willow grove that fringes the tiny stream that runs past the school house, he asked if I would like to rest there while he told me a story. If he noticed the amazement in my face at this request, he made no sign but found me a seat on an old log and then sat on the ground below me so that I couldn' t see his face. Then without looking at me he told me the "story." It was the usual story of an ambitious country boy seeking life and adventure and finding disillusionment. He had been so full of wonderful dreams and when he met "her" (the inevitable her), she had seemed the most golden dream of all. It had been unbelievably wonderful to find she loved him (or thought she did), and her love actually seemed to stand the test of poverty with a struggling student for a whole year. Then she had left and he had disappeared too, to give her grounds for the divorce she wanted. (Although he did not say, I thought perhaps he could have found the grounds, but would not). This had all been over, years ago, and he had long ago ceased to love or even to hate her. But the humiliation of it all was so EVOLUTION OF THE UGLY DUCKLING 337 great, he had never gone back to the old ways again, but was trying tc. Build a new life away from the devastating reminders of the old. He told me all this in the manner of one reciting a lesson, and gave me no chance to comment if I had wanted to. Then after a pause, while I wondered frantically how I could express the sympathy I felt, he went on talking in a changed tone, and I suddenly realized that the man was actually telling me he loved me?and asking if I had the courage to marry him. He had been so kind?he seemed so steady and sincere?and I knew instinctively that his story was true, and that it was something very deep and fine he must feel for me to make him tell it? that I almost whispered "'yes", in the ear so near my knee, but there was that haunting vision of dark eyes?eyes that spoke though lips were silent, 'and I couldn't!. I couldn't say a word, but just sat miserably wishing, oh, so hard! That I could give him the happiness he had never found, He seemed to read my answer in my silence, and after a long, long look at my down-cast face said quietly, although he was very pale, "Don't you care! It's all right, I?I didn't expect it." And we came silently home. He was his old considerate seif at the party, and never betrayed by his manner that I had hurt him at all. But every time I caught the look in his eyes I felt as if I had killed something, and longed to comfort him. But in spite of this compunction my heart was singing for joy, and I went through the familiar routine in a sort of trance, for a miracle had just~-happened to me! The tri-weekly mail came in just as we were leaving home on our way to the exercises, and tucking my letters into my bag, I took them with me to be read hastily in intervals of leisure?if any. One thin one of an unfamiliar character stirred my curiosity, however, and I opened it at once. I nearly fainted when I pulled cut a check for one hundred-fifty dollars from one of the popular magazines! A story had been accepted! Actually! No stereotyped rejection slip here, but a warm personal note, commending my story and asking for more of the same sort?and the check!! I told Mr. Dixon about it behind the curtains, while our iS bined departments shouted, "Hail To The Spring," out in front. "And to think I'm not an Ugly Duckling any more!" I exulted, crazily, just being obliged to slop over to some one, "And have swum right out into the Swan class!" He repeated slowly, "Ugly Duckling! You an Ugly Duckl- _ ing! Why, to me?" but I'm not going to write what he said? I've gushed disgustingly, as it is?my face burns to read it over. And then, after it was all over and-the parents had congratulated us, and the children had all come up to say, "Good-by" (strange how it hurt to part with the dear little nuisances!) and Mr. 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Dixon, too, had said, "Good-by"' (for he was leaving early in the morning) with a look in his eyes I shan't soon forget, came the most wonderful part of all! It had been such a day! Such a long, full, exciting day that I simply couldn't go to bed, and was standing at the gate in the moonlight, in the soft, sweet, spring air, and the poignant fragrance of the flowering apple orchards?just reveling in beauty almost too painfully sweet to bear, and dreaming dreams as vague and tenuous as the misty moonlight?when one of my dreams resolved itself into something more substantial than moonlight and moved toward me down the dusty road, creating a halo of soft dust about itself as it walked. I had heard, without heeding it, the eerie shriek of the 10:30 train, but had never dreamed that it bore such a cargo for me through the magic moonlight. I could hardly credit my senses when the shadow stopped at the gate, and I found myself staring speechlessly up into the dark eyes of Donovan Douglas. IJ thought for a moment that over-weariness and excitement had turned my brain and I was "'seein' things at night." But figments of the fancy don't wrench open gates and sieze both one's hands in large warm ones with a grip that suggests they will never let go, and say tenderly, "Were you waiting for me, little Daisy? And how did you know that I couldn't wait another minute, but came to bring you home as soon as I knew you were free to come?" Some way, quite naturally, I was in his arms, and he was telling me all about the other Margaret, in answer to my whispered question. He had gone home after his mother's death, and when everything was settled had lingered there, trying to settle down in his father's business, trying to get back the old feeling for Margaret. But she had finally seen "what I had known, ever Since I first saw you making smoky cocoa over your mother's library fire, that she and I weren't meant for each cther," and had offered him his freedom. He had intended to go through with it, but when the break was broached by Margaret had joyfully accepted her decision, and flown as fast as trains would carry him west again to the Margaret he really loved. Dreams do come true! And who is an Ugly Duckling, now? Two proposals in one day! And an acceptance! For the fact that I have at last "broken into" one of the big magazines looms just as large as the other incredible facts! And then, all of a sudden, I] knew I couldn't! Not yet! Oh, not yet! Just as the Ugly Duckling has found her wings at last! Just found my wings and discovered my kin- nn ir ll ttilrtties ee al EVOLUTION OF THE UGLY DUCKLING 339 ship to the Swans, and longirig to sail with them into those enchanted realms of which I've dreamed so long! What are handsome brown eyes, or hurt gray ones either, to the freedom nad joy of stretching new-found wings! Let some one else bind up the broken hearts?the Ugly Duckling has become a Swan and is going to fly! April 25?How high and mighty that last entry sounds! But Donovan refused it for an answer, and when I wrote it last night I knew it was my Swan song?though he graciously conceded that I may use my wings all I desire, and sail away as far into the realms of fancy as I choose, if I'll always come back to him when my flights are over. So the Ugly Duckling is no more; and once more I seal up the little volume with the story of her ups-and-downs, and face the new life with a happy heart. (THE Enp) Love's Recompense By Mrs. Grace Jacobson It was in the early June time When I first met you, dear; And the happy birds were singing In the tree tops far and near. Our hearts were young and tender, Tuned to love's enduring lay, As we dreamed of life and beauty In that trusting lovers' way. Yet our love has not grown cold; Its golden tie is just as strong And true, as we grow old. In the years that come and go, dear, Love once more will sing anew, In our love's approaching sunset, Deeper far than that we knew., Long years have passed since then, dear, Evening By Merling Clyde Tis evening in the valley now, The sun, a ball of fire, Hangs just above the blue-robed hills, Its rays to God aspire. I smell the sage that lines the lane, My heart with rapture thrills, As cooling breezes bring a tang From snow-capped cedar hills; While stretching far the level earth Is green with new-born grain; The low-hung clouds, fleeced through by light, Foretell tomorrow's rain, "Tis spring and, lo, my throbbing heart Tunes in with Nature's game, A promise and a hope renewed Bright pierced by vision's flame. The stun 'goes down?a blaze of gold, Behind a bank of clouds; Whose vivid lining, shot by fire, Is challenge for our doubts. The valley 's draped in amethyst, Which hangs, a purple fold, Deep-dropping where the hollows curve In lover's arms that hold. Caressing shadows softly fall, As twilight filters down; Afar yet darker grows the sky? A slow advancing frown. EVENING 341 Yet still the purpling rays of light Enrich the evening sky With orange shafts to drench the clouds In last defiant cry. The towering peaks stand shining yet, Softly they shed a glow; Kissed last, they send their lingering smile Through dusky vales below. Then earth, regretful, darker grows, As paler grows the light; A blanket falls, the stars shine out: Now sleeps the quiet night. Evening and Night By Weston N. Nordgran The burning sun sank in the west And hid beneath the mountain crest. A sharp-trilled night-bird's cry was heard? And gentle winds the pine boughs stirred. The darkened sky, with stars filmed o'er, Displaying night?and nature's lore. A snowy owl on noiseless wing? A hov'ring bat beside the spring. Two trusting souls, confidingly, Made one for all eternity. A calm; a peace; a happiness? And dying embers?perfectness! Thoughtfulness By Myrtle Janson Today, as a friend and I were out for a ride, we found ourselves going down the wrong street. As we backed to turn, we nearly ran into an old lady. Misinterpreting our maneuvers, she ran bright-faced to the side of the car, asking if we wanted her to go for a ride. It was an embarrassing situation; we couldn't take her then, as others were waiting for us who would fill the seats; so we told her we would call the next day. The disappointment in the withered old face was really painful. She thought that we were just making that promise as an excuse to be on our way. My conscience smote me; I had passed the forlorn old lady time and time again, and the 'thought had actually never entered my head that she would enjoy a car ride. "Poor old'soul!" mused Louise, "how lonely life must be for her without a relative in town. You didn't know her husband did you?a sweet, intellectual man, but an invalid for years. She worked like a slave, taking care of him until his death, and then slaved again in order to care for the two adopted children. One of these children is dead now, and the other has so large a family that he seldom has time to think of the old lady. I believe he did ask her to go to the Coast and live with his family, but she had sense enough to cling to her own home. Now that the bill pensioning the aged has passed the legislature, with her little rent money and her frugal habits, she will get on nicely. "But?" I interrupted, wishing to touch on the point that im-, pressed me most, "isn't it a travesty on human nature (my own included )?all these cars passing her home daily and hourly and not one of us considerate enough to realize how hungry she is for a little ride. When our own hunger is appeased, we think that everyone else's should be." Next day, as Louise and I stopped with a squeak of brakes before her adobe cottage?one of the few remaining pioneer dwellings with the proverbial lilac bush before the door?there peered through the red geraniums of the daintily curtained window a bright wizened face whose expression was a ray of joy. The visage bore the most radiant gleam of happiness I had ever beheld. As we drove down the highway. And swerved to the side to let whizzing cars by, she showed not the least sign of nervousness, as most elderly people do who are not used to automobile riding. The entire afternoon was a perfect joy to us, she was so rapturously thrilled with the ride itself and with every object we approached. (Who dares to say that youth is the only time for THOUGHTLESSNESS 343 thrills?) She showed us where the old fort used to stand, where they used to braid the Maypole and have picnics, where she herded sheep that the family might be clothed; for in those days they had literally to take the wool from the sheep' s backs to make clothing. Mothers had to weave the cloth as well as make the garments. "You would die laughing," she trilled, her brown eyes sparkling, "if you saw the first trousers, without a pattern, I made for my husband?baggy here and baggy there, and skimp where they should not be skimp. But, do you know, he was just as proud of those trousers and of me as if I had been the best tailor in New York." The humorous pride with which she told this was exquisite. After we had deposited the dear old soul at her gate and received her effusive thanks, I felt my eyes moisten and my throat tighten so that it was best to keep mute. Louise finally gasped, "I wouldn't have missed this afternoon for a thousand dollars. Isn't it strange that we should be so thoughtless when just a little time and a little consideration brings so much joy into the world." Requirement By Alberta H. Christensen Love does not ask for eyes With lashes long; It does not ask for moonlight, Or the song Of nightingale, or soft, sweet loveliness Of scented trees. You err, Romance?Love does not ask for these. Love does not ask for hands Soft, fragile, fair; Rough ones that daily toil Can smooth the hair With tender touch; Release the aching head from Fevered bands. You err, Romance?Love does not ask for hands. But Love does ask That when the shadows stretch Their sombre length Across a sunless path, Another one shall lend His spirit's strength To hasten dawn And help the twilight pass. Beloved By Nona H. Brown I thank my Maker for you, sweetheart mine. Your love has made a Paradise, earth's way. I thank Him that you found me here, and claimed Me for your own, one blessed April day. You've stood by me through joys and fear alike, Bringing the sunshine to my darkest days; You've changed despair into rich happiness! Your love has lessened keenest pain always. You walked with me and tightly held my hand, Into the torturing shadow-land of birth, And smiled first at the wee one we brought back? The wond'rous gift God sent us here on earth! Oh, may God grant us years to realize The happiness on earth together here. May life's experience but teach us two To hold each other ever yet more dear. At Less than half the cost of cream Sego Milk Cream?s rival "We should'a drunk more milk. When we wuz kids? YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at?a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health. CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. Ist So. Was. 2177 Seven Times Champion of the World Sent to you on Free Trial For Sale by Utah Power & Light Co. And Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City Select Your Own We, as a rule, are much better satisfied when we do things ourselves than when others do it for us. This is especially true in the selection of. Fruits and vegetables. It stands to reason that you will pick the best. When you serve yourself in our stores, you know you are getting what you want. This is only one of the many advantages enjoyed by O. P. Skaggs System patrons. 0. P SKAGGS Efficient Service FOOD System When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine VISITORS INVITED TO INSPECT SALT LAKE MEMORIAL MAUSOLEUM NOW UNDER CONSTRUCTION  Located on Wasatch Boulevard in the City Cemetery Mausoleum entombment has been accepted foo the earliest civilization as the preferred method of burial. Devoted husbands and wives, patriotic Cities and Nations, have through the years of history selected this form of Memorial to properly express undying devotion and furnish a suitable place where the loved and honored ones may sleep in peace. May we have the privilege of furnishing you additional information about this beautiful Memorial edifice. Salt Lake Memorial Mausoleum 404-405 Walker Bank Building Phone Was. 2073 Salt Lake City, Utah Without obligation, kindly furnish me further information regarding Salt Lake Memorial Mausoleum. Name am, Address...... When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine! USE BENNETT'S PROPERTY LIFE INSURANCE PAINT PRODUCTS During "Clean-up"? Time this Spring Made in Utah by Bennett Glass & Paint Co.  A SERVICE THAT MEANS MUCH TO YOU! If you are not familiar with our new Combination Rate?which brings to you the advantage of a low, onemeter rate for every kind of electric service in your home?it will pay you to give us an opportunity to explain it to you. CALL US. OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE PLEASED TO TELL YOU ALL ABOUT IT. Utah Power & Light Company Efficient Public Service USE Made in SALT LAKE CITY When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SUCIETY LARK UTAH ??Satisfied? Not only have the Policyholders of The Beneficial received the Guaranteed Values as set out in their Contracts, they have in addition thereto received A Special Cash Dividend With the new arrangement adopted by The Beneficial all Policyholders share in the Net Earnings of the Company. AND THIS ADDED FEATURE, AT NO ADDITIONAL COST The Big Home Company Now Offers? PARTICIPATING INSURANCE AT LOW NON-PARTICIPATING RATES This innovation in Insurance Benefits, firmly establishes The Beneficial as a Policyholders Company, offering the very best there is in Life Insurance. FEEL FREE TO CALL ON ANY On Any Insurance Problem?Without Obligation. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Rae When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine HEBER J. GRANT, President Beneficial Representative Who Will Gladly Advise You anes Home Office, Vermont, Building, Salt Lake City, Utah E. T. RALPHS, General Manager Summer Excursion Fares Southern Pacific Lines TO CALIFORNIA POINTS
PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT 41 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PHONES WAS. 3008?3078
Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, Utah HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Manager
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
