Here is the corrected OCR transcription in a vertical list format in the order from the document:

MUSICAL EDUCATION!
Join our Xmas Club. Anything in our store held for Xmas delivery on a small deposit.
Brand New Pianos $295.00 Up
Beautiful Baby Grands
C. G. Conn Band Instruments
Ukuleles, Banjos, etc.
Majestic and Victor Radios!
Give Your Family Something Musical
Write in for more information
Glen Bros.-Roberts Piano Co.
161 S. MAIN
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Relief Society Women---Attention!
After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department.
The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people.
The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys.
We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
MRS FRANCIS DALY
PANGUITCH UTAH
Until You Try a Maytag---
if you have never seen a Maytag do a washing, you have no idea what a vast improvement has been effected in washer design and performance. The Maytag Roller Water Remover, alone, offers advantages that will surprise you. Practically every operation is automatic. It has a safety feed, a self-reversing drain plate, and automatic tension adjustment. The flexible top roll and firm bottom roll flush out the soap, water and imbedded dirt without injury to buttons. A quarter of a million dollars was spent in developing this Maytag feature.
For a trial Maytag washing. If it doesn't sell itself, don't keep it. Deferred payments you'll never miss.
MAYTAG INTERMOUNTAIN CO.
Distributors
Salt Lake City
211 South State
Aluminum Washer
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Special Christmas HOLIDAY RATES
Southern Pacific Lines
CALIFORNIA POINTS
FARE AND ONE-THIRD FOR ROUND TRIP
Tickets on Sale December 16th to January 1st Inclusive.
Return Limit January 12th
Stop-overs Allowed
For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE
PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT
41 SO. MAIN ST.
SALT LAKE CITY
PHONES WAS. 3008—3078
Instant Starting.... With
PEP '88'
WINTER'S HOTTEST GASOLINE
Here's the new winter gasoline that brings to your car a wonderfully improved cold-weather performance. Yet it costs no more than ordinary gasoline!
PEP '88' is the high quality, balanced, PEP gasoline you know so well, but made with a lower "initial boiling point" so that it starts quicker in cold weather. Try it. You won't need to use the choke so much. All PEP dealers can supply you with PEP '88'. Look for the signs.
Manufactured and Guaranteed by
UTAH OIL REFINING COMPANY, Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Z. C. M. I. MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS
MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Are made from finest quality Denim,—guaranteed for quality, fit and service.
SOMETHING DIFFERENT The Spring-O-All Suspender, no rubber to rot, nothing to wear out.
Make This a Musical Xmas
JOIN OUR XMAS CLUB NOW!
A small deposit down will hold anything in our store for Xmas Eve delivery.
GULBRANSEN PIANOS FOR $295 UP
MAJESTIC & VICTOR RADIOS
C. G. CONN BAND INSTRUMENTS
Write in for more information
Glen Bros. Roberts Piano Company
161 South Main
For Christmas
Old-Fashioned ROYAL FRUIT CAKE
Real old-fashioned fruit cake... As much a part of the happy Yuletide season as holly wreaths! So easy to have, too. Just ask your grocer for Royal Fruit Cake. It's made with nine different kinds of fruit, fresh eggs and creamery butter, plus the skill of long experience, and the advantages of modern facilities. Order from your grocer
Made by the makers of ROYAL BREAD
Royal Baking Company
Salt Lake and Ogden
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
AUTUMN AND WINTER LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of autumn and winter wear:
No. 1 New style, ribbed light weight cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies number $1.25
No. 2 Old style, ribbed light weight cotton, our standard summer weight $1.25
No. 3 Ribbed medium weight cotton, bleached. Our all season number $1.50
No. 4 Ribbed heavy weight unbleached cotton. Our double back number $2.25
No. 5 Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number $3.00
No. 6 High grade rayon tricot silk. For particular people $4.00
No. 7 Light weight new or old style, mercerized—silky finish $1.75
No. 8 Ribbed heavy weight unbleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number $4.25
No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only $7.50
No. 10 Medium weight silk for men and women, new style only $8.50
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills
28 Richards Street
Briant Stringham, Manager
One-Half Block South of Temple Gates
ANNOUNCING A New Line of Sacrament Trays
A new line of Sacrament Trays built for service and beautiful in appearance. The water tray is manufactured in Salt Lake City, by a home concern and is guaranteed by us never to tarnish or lose its lustre. The tray is made of highest grade material, chromium plated. The glasses are hand fashioned and of lead composition, insuring uniformity in size and making them less likely to break.
PRICES
Water tray complete with three doz. Glasses....$18.50
Glasses per dozen $ 1.50
Write in for more particulars on Bread and Water trays.
Deseret Book Company
44 East on South Temple Street
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave..$1.10
208 Light Weight Rib............1.35
32 Combed Cotton, Light Weight....1.50
222 Cotton Rayon Stripes......1.65
294 Ladies' New Style, Rayon...2.00
302 Ladies' New Style, Rayon 2.50
307 Men's New Style, Rayon....2.75
258 Double Card Cotton, Medium Weight 1.95
628 Mercerized Lisle, Light Weight.......2.25
264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality...3.00
748 Unbleached Cotton, Heavy Weight 2.00
754 Bleached Cotton, Heavy Weight.....2.25
908 Unbleached Cotton, Extra Heavy 2.75
1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton......4.00
BARTON & CO.
Established in Utah 45 Years
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City, Utah
SALT LAKE VISITING NURSING SERVICE
For general information call K. M. Hudson, R. N., 46 Truman Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone Hy. 6177. Service includes, Routine Visits, Maternity Service, Surgical Assistance at minor operations and Hourly Service by appointment, for special treatments or dressings.
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed extra light cotton knee length $.75
No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs................ .85
No. 74 Ribbed light weight cotton 1.10
No. 84 Ribbed mercerized lisle.... 1.85
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
Cutler's Fine Quality BLUE SERGE SUIT—$37.00
No. 61 Ribbed medium heavy unbleached double back $1.70
No. 56 Ribbed heavy cotton bleached 2.15
No. 55 Ribbed heavy cotton unbleached double back 2.15
No. 27 Ribbed medium weight 50% wool 3.35
No. 39 Ribbed heavy weight 50% wool 3.85
No. 82 Silk and Wool 4.50
WHITE SHIRTS Collar Attached or Without $1.95
HAND BAGS
BRIEF CASES
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid.
CUTLER GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Today's Milk Today
Braithwaite's Cottonwood Dairy
Our High Quality Milk is gathered—Perfectly Pasteurized—bottled and delivered the same day.
1063 E. 21 So. Hy. 670
New Home—New Goods
New Low Prices On Quality Merchandise
Our building remodeled and newly painted and decorated. We are now ready to serve our friends with the best in RUGS, LINOLEUMS, CARPETS, DRAPERIES, SHADES, COAL, GAS AND ELECTRIC STOVES AND RANGES in the latest designs and colors at the very lowest prices possible.
See the NEW ROUND OAK, COMBINATION GAS AND COAL FURNACE. Can use COAL one day and GAS the next day or both together. See demonstration
CROSLEY and ERLA RADIOS, at new low prices. Convenient payments. Special discounts for cash.
"Trade With Your Friends"
MODERN FURNITURE CO.
234 South State Street—Salt Lake City
Upstairs Take Elevator
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Sometimes it's lucky you "can't see the back of..."
These close fitting hats soil so easily but they clean the same way
YOU start to put on a hat and it's too badly soiled to wear! You wonder if anyone saw it when you wore it last. But you needn't discard it; clean it. A few minutes is all you need—simply sponge it—away from the crown, toward the edge—with Shell Dry Cleaner.
Shell Dry Cleaner is a new fluid from Shell laboratories. Perfectly safe to use because it is not explosive. And a wonderful cleaner, too. It will save you many mortifying experiences.
At grocery, drug and department stores and Shell stations—½ pint, pint and gallon cans—with the red and yellow label—the Shell colors.
A score of daily home uses—cleans shoes, hats, ties, clothing, furs, upholstery—all fabrics
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
CITY LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
1930 BROWNING-DRAKE RADIO
SCREEN GRID—ALL ELECTRIC
The Radio Season is on
The Outstanding Radio—This Season—
No Exaggerated Advertising—But the Quality Built Into The Set Throughout.
Ask for your Demonstration—Phone or Write
Browning-Drake Distributing Co.
135 So. Main St., Salt Lake City
Properly Pasteurized and Clarified!
Clover Leaf SELECTED
Phone Wasatch 2177
Phone Was. 2
CONTENTS
The Madonna Del Granduca Frontispiece
Madonna Claire Stewart Boyer 631
The Holy Family 632
A Day in a Jewish Village in Russia Dr. Franklin S. Harris 633
Music in the Home of Hamlin Garland 639
Evergreen Elsie Talmage Brandley 640
Vesta Pierce Crawford 651
Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief Society Julia A. F. Lund 652
Children's Books Lala Vernon Hales 660
Childhood Tuberculosis H. E. Kleinschmidt, M. D. 665
Guide Lessons for February 667
The Names of Santa Claus 679
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123
VOL. VOL. XVI DECEMBER, 1929 NO. 12
THE MADONNA DEL GRANDUCA BY RAPHAEL
MADONNA By Claire Stewart Boyer
Her love springs elemental from a great maternal sod, And grows and reaches till it holds The very stars of God; Her duties are the shining joys That grace Maternity And hang like Christmas ornaments upon that holy tree.
THE HOLY FAMILY BY MURILLO

XVI DECEMBER, 1929 No. 12
A Day in a Jewish Village in Russia By Franklin S. Harris, President, Brigham Young University
I should like to have you go with me for a day to a Jewish village in southwest Russia in what is known as the Ukraine. We shall take the evening train at Moscow. After traveling southwest for about twenty-four hours, we pass through the beautiful city of Kiev, situated on a high bank overlooking the Dnieper river. Kiev has one of the most interesting histories of any city in Europe, but that is another story. The village that we are to visit is further on southwest. In the study which I am making as a member of a Commission for planning the colonization of the Jewish people of Russia, it is desirable to get a clear insight into the inner life of the Jewish people, hence the visit to many of the places where they are living. The village to which I am taking you is one of the many places examined by the members of our commission.
This particular village was visited by Mr. L and me. He was born there and has many relatives living in the vicinity, and has an intimate knowledge of the conditions. The through train on which we were riding did not stop at this village, so we had to go on to the next one, where, at three o'clock in the morning, we were met by two of Mr. L's brothers and a number of relatives. Waiting till nearly five, we took the local train back to the village. A large group of Mr. L's relatives was at the station to meet us. It may be needless to say that there are no sidewalks or pavements in a village of this kind, and the black, heavy soil makes first-class mud. Mr. L and I were put into the one waiting Isvostchik, a one-horse, buggy-like conveyance used all over Russia, and were taken to the house of one of the brothers, while the others trailed after us through the mud. After the greetings, we had to partake of refreshments; then came visiting between Mr. L and his relatives whom he had not seen for more than two years. There were brothers and brothers-in-law, cousins, and cousins-in-law, and all the children, making up about thirty in all. As everywhere in Russia this household was very much crowded. The theory at the present time in this country is that all houses belong to the Government, which assigns on the average about one room to the family; but since this family had a number of branches and many children, four rooms were assigned to it.
During the day Yiddish was the principal language spoken. Occasionally when a non-Jewish person came to visit us, Russian was used. I knew very little of the latter language, but by using German I could get along in a fairly satisfactory way with the Jewish people, and particularly well with the young people, since they speak more clearly than older ones. Yiddish has German as its foundation, but has developed into a separate language using the Hebrew alphabet. While Mr. L visited the older relatives, I found myself constantly surrounded by a group of young people. There were two young ladies fifteen or sixteen years old and a boy about twelve who seemed to be contesting for places near me. In my more optimistic moments I assumed that they came to me because they liked me, while during periods of pessimism I decided that my popularity may have resulted from the fact that they wanted to hear me speak German, or to hear me tell about America, or to examine some of my strange personal effects, such as a
634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
A BUSINESS STREET IN A JEWISH RUSSIAN VILLAGE
pencil that had ink in it. Some of them seem never to have seen a fountain pen before. Whatever the cause may have been, I was very much the center of a group. I preferred to look at the young ladies, but the boy was better to talk to.
There was a brother-in-law who was a bookkeeper, and one who was a worker in a poultry packing establishment; there was a nephew who was a photographer and a brother who had a job that classed him as one of the elect workers. There was an older brother who had been broken by the vicissitudes of revolution and persecution; then there were the wives of all of these and the children. All in all, they were very much like the families we might find in any of our smaller towns in Utah. Certainly they were well informed and as intelligent on general matters as we ordinarily encounter. The limitations in household devices and equipment growing out of raids and persecutions left much to be desired in the way of arrangement of meals and methods of serving. They had one distinct luxury in the house, however?a wash stand, with a tank behind the mirror into which the water was poured so that it could run out of the tap into the wash basin and then be drained into a bucket below?a semblance of modern convenience which I was glad to use.
After breakfast, while the family visited, I took a half hour's nap since we had been up practically all of the previous night making connections and seeing the other part of our delegation get off at their various villages. The beds, somewhat similar to those found in Germany, are interesting. They are feather beds with a large feather pillow which extends nearly to the middle of the bed. The covering is a sort of light feather bed inclosed in white linen, which can be changed in place of changing the sheet.
During the middle of the forenoon the clouds cleared away and the sun came out, so we took a trip through the village. On the main street we saw rows of peasant women, displaying their products to all who passed. They had brought in their eggs and other wares and were lined up along the street in the mud. There were dozens of these street vendors with everything from cloth to live chickens for sale. This street had about ten feet along the middle paved with cobble rocks. Along this pavement a constant stream of peasants passed in their little low-wheeled wagons pulled by tiny ponies. There were groups of people standing about talking, and everywhere curious eyes were turned toward us and our photographic apparatus. Later, during the afternoon, we went out with Mr. L's moving picture machine. Almost the whole village followed to watch the process of taking a moving picture. So great was the commotion that the local police officials took us in and made us show our identification papers and explain what we were doing there, why we should be taking a moving picture, and a lot of other questions. We finally answered all of their inquiries and they released us. The local photographer wished to take our pictures, copies of which he said he would send to us. When we went into the front room studio the curious crowds so filled the door and jammed the windows that he had to take us out into the back yard, herding off the crowd while he took our pictures.
In the crowd that passes along the street, most of the women are in their bare feet, many of them carrying heavy loads, while some have water in two buckets suspended from a pole over the shoulders. Many are in rags. As at the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem, we see along the way many a Jewish brother with long whiskers. Most of the young people, however, are wearing Russian costumes, as if they were courting the favor of the Government by throwing off the ancient costumes. Most of the houses are built of a sort of adobe or cheap brick and are plastered with mud, some of them whitewashed. Although some houses have tile roofs, many are covered with rye straw about a foot thick. On every hand there is evidence of poverty. If anyone had means he would not display it in Russia, because no worse title can be applied to one than to be called "bourgeoise," and the Government taxes very heavily all who have more than the average of wealth.
During the afternoon it rained again, so we returned to the house, where anti-Jewish persecutions of previous years were recounted. One of the men told how a cousin, who was a dentist, had been killed by Russian peasants whom he had previously served free; but during these pogroms, which are outbursts of race hatred, no one seems to escape. During the civil war following the withdrawal of Russia from the World War there were 2,500 pogroms in 900 separate cities and towns, some places suffering as high as three, four, and five such outbreaks; certain towns were completely wiped out, men, women, and children being killed. There were 200,000 orphans left and twenty per cent of the women were left widows. The statement went abroad that all the trouble of the Russians came from the Jews and the latter were massacred by the thousands. The village in which we are visiting has seen many of these raids. The recital of the story, with the shedding of many tears, brought to my mind Haun's Mill, Nauvoo, and Carthage. The Jewish persecution in Russia is such a manifestation. With the coming of the new regime, an attempt is made to eliminate all race persecution and to allow each people to develop its own culture. The people in the villages, however, have vivid memories and are in constant fear that something may arise to bring on a repetition of past atrocities. With the coming out of the sun we got into one of the curious wagons and rode to a nearby peasant village. We inspected the local school in a brick building as modern as any such buildings in those parts. The teacher showed us the semblance of a laboratory; and while he was very proud of the equipment, we would consider it primitive, It is, however, a step in the right direction; and 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE though all could not be accommodated in the school with its two teachers, there is hope for a new day in Russia due to the increased interest in education. It must be said to the credit of the Jewish people that they are easily the best educated group in Eastern Europe. Throughout the ages, in spite of persecution and poverty, they have maintained their interest in education. This is probably one of the chief reasons why they have been able to survive in the presence of hostile associates. They have been more capable than the other peoples, and have got along in spite of adversity. Our train did not! Eave until three the next morning, but the family would not go to bed; to the last child all insisted on staying up until our train left. I begged for an opportunity to take a nap about one o'clock, but was awakened more than an hour before the train left, so that I would be sure to be ready and so that there would be a little more visiting. Though most of these A Girl BELONGING TO THE FAMILY THAT PRESIDENT Harris VISITED A DAY IN A JEWISH VILLAGE 639 people had been up twenty-four hours, none of them went to bed, contenting themselves with little naps. When it came time to go, we all marched in a procession through the mud. Every child joined the company. One of the young ladies took hold of my arm on one side and a young man on the other, so that I should not slip in the mud. When we reached the station twenty minutes before the train was due, we found dozens of people sleeping around on the floor just as they do in all stations in Russia. At the whistle of the train we said good-bye all around two or three times and went out and said good-bye again at the car steps; then I reached out through the car window and shook hands with everyone as a final farewell. In order to show their respect two of the men went with us on the train to the next station and when they left, each of them gave me a good-bye kiss on the cheek. Even though I had known these Jewish people only one day I seemed very near to them; they were like old friends. I left with a greater determination than ever that the Commission which I represented would do everything possible to alleviate their suffering and to give these good people an opportunity to live happy lives unmolested by hostile neighbors and freed from the abject poverty which is now their portion. Music in the Home of Hamlin Garland In the stirring sketch of pioneer life in "A Son of the Middle Border," by Hamlin Garland, we get a splendid idea of what music meant to the family and its closest neighbors so far removed from contact with the rest of the world. It was a great part of the entertainment of these early heroes and heroines. They often spent the evening sitting around the fireside singing their favorite songs. Quoting from the story we have Hamlin Garland's own description of these delightful occasions. "Our home was a place of song, notwithstanding the severe toil which was demanded of every hand, for often of an evening, especially in winter time, father took his seat beside the fire, invited us to his knees, and called on mother to sing. These moods were very sweet to us and we usually insisted upon his singing for us. True he hardly knew one tune from another, but he had a hearty resounding chant which delighted us, and one of the ballads which we especially liked to hear him repeat was called 'Down the Ohio'. * * * Mother, on the contrary, was gifted with a voice of great range and sweetness and from her we always demanded Nellie Wildwood, Lily Dale, Lorena or some of Root's stirring war songs. We loved her noble, musical tone, and yet we always enjoyed our father's tuneless roar. There was something dramatic and moving in each of his ballads. He made the words mean so much. It is a curious fact that nearly all the ballads which the McClintocks and other of these powerful young sons of the border loved to sing were sad, * * * and the memory of their mellow voices creates a golden dusk between me and that far-off cottage." Having caught the thrill of their favorite music, would it not be a fitting tribute to these worthy people to sing some of the songs which they loved so much? With this thought in mind the suggestion is made to have some of their songs sung on the day when the literary lesson on "A Son of the Middle Border" is given. If this suggestion finds a favorable response "Belle Mahone" and "Lorena" could be sung with great effect, thus bringing in a bit of the atmosphere of the Garland home. These were two of the songs Hamlin's mother sang. Many of the songs mentioned in the story are out of print, but these two songs can be obtained by writing to Wm. A. Pond & Co., 18 W., 37th St., New York, or to Daynes Beebe Music Co., 61-63 South Main St., Salt Lake City. Evergreen By Elsie Talmage Brandley The little pink area on the map which indicates the relative position of British Columbia is as unenlightening as the tiny black dot denoting the town of New Michell. A casual glance at the black dot set so carelessly down upon the pink expanse discovers nothing except that the dot is perhaps as small as any dot can be and still retain its standing as a full-fledged dot. A less casual glance, one colored with a bit of imagination, might lead to the additional conclusion that certainly life in such a place must be unendurably dull, and that a person was favored of fate if his path on the map of life lay along a route of more conspicuous dots. But that conclusion would have been reached before one had heard the story Ruth Mason had to tell of the joy she had found in New Michell. After that the thing would assume different proportions, perhaps. Ruth had lived the whole of her twenty years in Oregon, where her father operated a large saw and planing mill inherited from his father. The Masons had been known in the surrounding counties as the "lumber people" ever since the first of the name had come west for gold. Finding instead the glory of the Oregon pines, they settled down to live and work among them. Ruth's earliest recollections dealt with trips on her father's back across the little ravine between the large, comfortable log home and the roaring hungry mill, which they pretended was a giant who must be given an uninterrupted diet of choice pine-morsels. The spicy aroma of the woods was her first smell-memory, and she always felt that the fulness of life's beauty filled her heart as the fragrance of the pines filled her nostrils; and the combination had resulted in an unusually fine and contented existence. Her little girlhood had known nothing of strife, or sorrow. The woods, the sky, the flowers, her books, family, and curly hair seemed all that any girl could ask of the gods, and life abundant flowed through the veins of her. She exulted, she scintillated; and withal she radiated serenity. "Funny about Ruth Mason," the few neighbors of the locality would say. "She never was what you might call pretty, with that nose; but there's something about her face you like to look at." Which was quite true. There was a vivacity, a joyousness, about the girl which made one feel that a light was burning steadily and brightly behind the gray eyes. Her face, with its crown of wavy copper hair, was one of those that in passing left the impression that at least in one girl's heart all was right and good. She was just twenty when she met Larry Roberts?tall, genial EVERGREEN 641 Larry, who had come in the capacity of assistant manager of the New Mighell Lumber Company to learn something of a new planing mill which the Mason people had installed. The planing machine amounted to almost nothing at all, but the trip was epoch making, for the hour that Ruth turned the gray tranquility of her eyes upon Larry, he was a changed man. In his heart he found that he had been unconsciously harboring an abstract image of the girl for whom he was seeking?how else could he account for the sudden realization that at last she was found? She was the coming true of dreams long dreamed, and Larry was fairly breathless with the wonder of it all. It was all settled before he went back. They were married in September, standing in a grove of the pines they both loved, and with the autumn sunshine sifting through the boughs to set its seal of benediction on the two heads bowed in a flood of wonder and. Incredible gratitude. Then came the haste to get everything ready to catch the train at the little station and start off for the new place they were to call home. "Larry, what fun to eat at these darling little white tables! Don't you love the cool clink of the ice when the car rocks a little and sways the dishes to one side?" "You're a sweet thing, Ruth. Everything is fun to you, isn't it?" "No, Larry; some things are much more than fun. This trip is. It's glorious, heart-crushing, unbelievable." And the evenings, looking out at the passing landscape as it grew more and more shadowy in the deepening dusk, with here and there a light shining out from a little cabin, were almost unbearably sweet. "Think you'll be able to stand it way off from your people, in a little house like that one?' Larry would whisper. "Stand it, Larry? I only wonder how I've stood it this long anywhere else." "Ruth, I want to make you happy. No, I can't do that, for you are so happy already; but please God, I'll keep you happy, dear." Tears from the depths of a new-found spring of joy welled up in her voice. "Oh, Larry," was all she really said, but Larry heard much more. There could be volumes written about the home-coming, and getting settled in a little house o' dreams; but all such unimportant details must be left out to make room for Goldie McGee. Goldie was so called according to that unfathomable rule of boys which decrees that a nickname shall imply something which the nicknamed is not. Goldie McGee was as ungold as can well be imagined, with his black, part-defying hair cut square above 642 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE heavy black eyebrows, which in turn were above eyes too dark to be expressive. Swarthy skin, a very husky voice, and perpetually dirty hands all combined to produce the effect of unqualified darkness, which inevitably resulted in the name of Goldie. If there was anything golden about the boy, it was his smile, about which there hovered a suggestion of spirituality almost incongruous with the rest of him. And it was his smile that won Ruth. She saw him first one day in late October, when the Indian summer sun had lured her out of doors to putter around, as she called it. The immaculate little cabin was in spotless order, and as near heaven as an earthly habitation can be?without flowers. The lateness of the season had precluded the raising of anything outside, but Ruth's passionate love of growing things had sent her in search of something she might transplant into boxes, to give the finishing touch of hominess to the place. Her quest had been successful?ferns and moss and vines had all been discovered, and left where they were until such time as a window box would be ready to receive them. A long, narrow box from the store gave perfect satisfaction as to size and shape, and, with an ease born of long experience, she set to work to cover the outside with bark, thus transforming a once plain box into a rustic fernery. It was a touch of home, for play-hours all Ruth's life had been closely associated with chairs and little cupboards covered in just such a fashion. This particular autumn day was so lovely that it fairly hurt her who, sensitive always to the beauty of nature, was now, loving and loved, unusually responsive to it. The wooded hills, rising in sharp relief against the glow of the sky, pressed on her soul with a sudden ache. She felt that she could endure nothing more perfect?somewhere in the back of her head she was going over and over some lines she had read once?"Let fall no burning leaf; dear Lord, let no bird call. Let fall no burning leaf; dear Lord, let no bird call." No, that was not quite right. There was no "dear Lord" in. The poem, but it didn't matter. She wanted a "dear Lord" in it anyway. Her wealth of vitality was expressing itself by means of vicious choppings and hammerings as she prepared the strips of bark for their destined places on the fernery. The violence of the exercise had brought a flush to her cheeks and a glow to her eyes. The thrill of activity shot through her whole being, and with red lower lip caught between rows of even white teeth she looked like the spirit of the autumn tide. And thus, Goldie McGee, coming over to borrow the wrench, came upon Ruth. Involuntarily he stopped short to stare. Then "If you ain't a peach. You sure are. If you ain't a winner," he EVERGREEN 643 exclaimed; and the earnestness of his tribute made up for any possible lapse in grammar. Ruth's first reaction was one of complete astonishment, followed so quickly by an appreciation of the boy's spontaneity that she beamed an unmistakable welcome, and held out her hand. "You must be Goldie McGee. Larry has told me about you. Won't you come in?" He accepted her invitation readily, with none of the adolescent awkwardness she feared might follow such an outburst. Goldie had seen a new kind of woman-person; one who could hammer things, and from the way she was biting her lip, the boy knew that the hammering was counting for something. He said so. "You don't act like most girls when you hammer. Ma can't hit anything when she tries, and neither can Sis, and they get awful mad cause I laugh. What you makin'?" "A fern box, so I can have things that grow in the house all winter. It seems to me that spring is nearer if there is greenery in the window. Don't you think so?" "I dunno. Never tried it. But I believe I could nail some ? bark onto that there box." "You can, I'm sure. There is a piece all cut to fit. Go ahead." Goldie went ahead, and nailed on piece after piece of the rough covering, finding in the occupation a stimulation quite new to his experience. Funny how it made him feel. No use being mean, and knocking good things to pieces when it was just as much fun to fasten bits of wood together that weren't any good, and make something decent out of them. "Wish I'd thought of this long ago. Ma would too, I bet. She hates me to be whittlin' around everywhere, but I can't seem to help doin' it, somehow." Ruth felt a pang of yearning toward Goldie. Jn his mobile face she read a little of the satisfaction he was finding in this simple outlet for energy which he had been led to regard as destructive... The making of things! The joy of it! The thrill of it! She loved the boy already. Then, after awhile, "Goldie, let's go inside; shall we? We don't need to finish the box today, you know, and I've a whole jar of spice and raisin cookies in the house, just aching to be eaten by a boy of your size." "Cookies?" "Yes, I should say cookies. Great big ones. Larry is a perfect baby over them, so I always have far too many for just the two of us." An hour later there were not too many cookies for anyone. Goldie had done his best, which, in that particular respect, was very good, 644 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Will you have just one more, Goldie?" Ruth asked him as he was about to depart. "I could chew one, maybe, but I sure couldn't swallow it, Mrs. ?Miss?" "Miss Ruth is my name, Goldie," she helped him out. 'Sounds kinda like you look. Now I gotta go." "Will you come again tomorrow? I need lots of help with my fern box." "Sure will. G'bye, Miss Ruth." Goldie forgot the wrench he had come for. When he came the next day his exuberance had moderated, but as he got well into the work at hand it partially returned. "Miss Ruth, what d'ye know about it?Ma wasn't a bit struck on havin' me come over here. She said the craziest things, that I didn't get at all." "I'm sorry, Goldie. Why didn't she want you to come?" "Dunno. She and Sis looked at each other, and said somethin' about the kind of a girl who'd take another girl's fella away from her, or somethin' like that." "Did she mean me, Goldie? Did I take another girl's fellow? I didn't know it, if I did." "How could you know it when you didn't do it? Larry wasn't never Sis's fella. She was just hopin' he would be, was all. He used to come over to supper once in awhile, and then play checkers with me or Dad; and Sis kinda thought he was there to see her, but he wasn't. 'nd Ma crocheted a bedspread for Sis's box that took her about a year, and it made her sore when Sis didn't need it. See?" "But, Goldie, if your mother really doesn't want you to come over here, perhaps you hadn't better come. I don't want her to?" "Naw, she just sputtered a bit, cause that's her way. She's darn glad to have me cuttin' on your back porch instead of her kitchen floor." So the matter rested there. Ruth could not bring herself to send the boy away, for into the interesting occupation he had discovered, he put an intensity that fairly frightened her. No wonder he had been regarded by neighbors as something of a terror. Poor kid, with nothing given him as an outlet for the surplus steam. He was the best boy in the world. At length the fern box was finished, and the two, now quite inseparable outside of school hours, took a tramp into the woods for the greenery. It was a brisk day in early November, with a purplish haze casting a mysterious veil over everything, and the tang of the autumn woods permeating every fibre of them with its crispness. It was a day of heart-wrenching loveliness, and Goldie's response to it all was touching. The birds, the river, the clouds in their billowy whiteness, all seemed to speak to him with EVERGREEN 645 voices he understood best, and not once did he speak to his companion, or she to him; and yet that trip was to both, a cementing of their friendship. Within a day or two after that, the job was done, and Goldie appeared to be so lost without it that Ruth hastened to think up something else. "Christmas will be here soon, Goldie. How would you like to make a window box for your mother, and surprise her?" "Think she'd like it? She thought it was kinda nutty to be tinkerin' so long on yours." "Oh, I'm sure she would like it, Goldie. Presents we make for people are always far nicer than any other kind. And perhaps she doesn't know how lovely a thing it is to have something green in the house when everything outside is icebound. Why, Goldie, to watch the new little fern tendrils unroll, and know that you yourself have watered and cared for them, gives a joy I can't put into words." Goldie caught her spirit. "Kinda nice to know you were keepin' the little rascals from freezin' to death, too." "That's exactly what I mean, Goldie. It is a very pleasant thing to know you have helped some helpless thing. Try to remember that always, will you?" "Veh," They set to work on the second box, and the pleasant congeniality of the hours spent with the boy was to Ruth beautiful. She loved his blunt, untactful way of speaking out the thing that was in his mind. Often some observation of his amazed her with its maturity of viewpoint; and she knew, with the humility that comes with such a realization, that she listened to the thoughts of a soul that was far, far older than the youthful little body harboring it. Manliness was cropping out, unformed, and scarcely understood, but it was an absorbing study. The work on the box went forward at about the same rate of speed as the cookies went inward. Ruth devoted three mornings each week to the preparation of the afternoon refreshments; for whereas Larry's cookie longings were easily appeased by a weekly cookie-bake, Goldie was not so temperate. As a measure of gastric precaution, Ruth took to using less sugar and spice, but it lessened the consumption not a whit. Sometimes talkative, and sometimes thoughtfully silent, Goldie's hands were always busy and his jaws kept pace. "Wish Mom knew how to make these cookies, and would do it.' he said once. "I told: her I bet you'd teach her, but she acted as though she never heard a word I said. Not that it matters much, 'cause I eat so many over here that I couldn't get away with another if our whole house was full of 'em." 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Ruth smiled at him; and he smiled back. They were good friends, these two. Three days before Christmas the box was done, and a thing of loveliness it was. Instead of the broad slabs of bark, they had covered this box with small, evenly matched twigs from the pine boughs, and a little design had been worked out on each side. Exhilarated with the success he had achieved, Goldie had been fired further, and had worked out a Christmas greeting on a board a foot square, and adorned with somewhat crooked letters whittled from sticks and put together to form the hearty, if uneven message, "Merry Xmas, to Mom, from Goldie." His delight knew no bounds. It was great, this making things for people, when they hadn't even asked you if you would. He could hardly wait for Christmas, to see what Mom would think about it all. It was too late for ferns; they had been frozen for over a month. But Ruth had decided to spare half of hers to make the gift complete. That was to be her Christmas surprise for Goldie. But she had reckoned without the boy. The morning before Christmas, he came over all bundled up in his warmest coat and mitts. He was jubilant over something. "Miss Ruth, I've had the best idear. It happened sometime in the night, I guess, for I found it in my head when TI woke up." "Fine, Goldie. Hurry and tell me what it is. From the way you look, it must be something perfectly scrumptious." "It's that I've thought of a way to get plants for the box for Mom's Christmas gift. Its the evergreens upon the south Galloway Mountain. They never freeze, and they'd be just as pretty as ferns, wouldn't they? Green, and everything." "What a perfectly lovely plan, Goldie. How did you ever come to think out anything so great? I call it downright inspiration." Ruth's enthusiasm was not feigned, and the lad glowed under her commendation. "Guess she'd like it better, all right, if it had some plants in it, wouldn't she?" "Will you be gone long, Goldie?" "No, it's not so far. I'll easy get up and back before dark." "Here, take a pocketful of cookies along with you. Take every pocket you have full, and I will have some nice hot soup ready for you when you get back." In a moment the boy was gone, and in her mind Ruth tried to follow him in his pilgrimage. There was something about the thought of him, away upon the white, lonely mountainside that caught her by the throat. He was such a game little chap. She hoped he managed his trip nicely, and wasn't disappointed in his search. EVERGREEN 647 Larry came in from the mills about three for his lunch, and found an almost tearful wife. '"'What's the matter, Honey?" He was all solicitude. "Oh, nothing, Larry, only of course it is the first Christmas away from home, and I think I must be just a teeny bit homesick." "Where's Goldie? I've sorta been depending on him to keep you company these busy days." 'Maybe that is one thing I'm worried about. He is away upon the South Galloway Mountain after evergreens, and it seems so cold and lonesome to think of him alone up there. After he gets back we'll be so busy getting his gift for his mother ready that I'll be all fine again." "That's good, Ruth, for I'll be pretty late at the mill tonight. The paymaster went home for the holidays,-and I have to stay and pay off the men." "How late will you be, Larry? Not too late to fill our stockings, I hope." "Fill our stockings! I never filled stockings in my life. What makes you think I'll know how the thing is done?" "Don't you know, Larry Roberts, that when a man asks a girl to marry him, he virtually promises to fill stockings every Christmas from then on?" "Still a bit of a kid, aren't you, Ruthie? Well, you can count on me. Hang up the very longest hosiery you own, and I'll surprise you." Ruth's thoughts kept going back to Goldie. "Have we ever been upon the mountain where Goldie is, Larry? Perhaps I wouldn't feel quite so worried about him if I knew just what he was doing." "We haven't been as far as the evergreen, but we went along the trail on that very first hike we took after coming here. Remember?" "Do I? Could I ever forget? I'm so glad you told me, for now I can picture the boy on his quest. And come home as soon as you can, won't you, Santa Claus?" "You bet I will," and with a quick kiss Larry was gone. The short afternoon was gone, and the chill of the mountain evening had settled down before it seemed possible. The sound of steps on the back porch brought Ruth's heart into her throat, from relief. She hadn't realized how concerned she had been until the moment when the concern was ended. When she opened the door, she faced Goldie's mother. "Well, Mrs. McGee, I'm so glad to see you. Come in." The warmth in the girl's voice gradually faded before the relentless unfriendliness of the other. "Where's Goldie McGee?" 648 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "T think he'll be back here any instant. He told you where he was going, didn't he?" "He told me he was going up on the mountain on an errand. A great one you are, sendin' a kid off on a wild goose chase the day before Christmas. I've got forty chores for him to do." "I'm sorry, Mrs. McGee. Truly I am. It was thoughtless of us, but he was so anxious to?" "Well, it don't matter. I thought this was a good chance, anyhow, to come over and speak my mind to you. About Goldie, of course. I'm good and sick of the way he spends his time over here?never home to chop his wood, never hungry at mealtimes because he's stuffed full of your sickening cookies?not satisfied with anything me or 'Si does for him, because he thinks you can do it better." "But Mrs. Mice, I haven't known I was making him discontented. I haven't purposely?"' "No, I guess not. But you might have known, if you'd taken the trouble to think. Anybody could get'a kid away from his mother if she went at it the way you have." "You are tired tonight, Mrs. McGee. I'm sorry that Goldie went away today and left you so much to do. If I have done anything to hurt you, I beg your pardon, and I'll be more careful in the future. I have been lonely, and Goldie was friendly to me? a stranger. The boy needed something to keep him busy, and I have tried to help him. There has been no thought of anything disloyal to you." Mrs. McGee was unconvinced. "Don't you think I have enough work at home to keep him busy?me with no other boy to help? But-you get him. Over here and let him whittle everything to pieces, so's he'll feel that home ain't home to him no longer. And now its come to your sendin' him goose-chasin' after heaven knows what nonsense for you, and its dark as a pocket, and him mebbe lost on that Galloway slope. Might stay there and freeze to death for a Christmas gift to me. How'd you like that?" Ruth's throat felt dry, and there was a tingling back of her eyelids. The thought of danger had never occurred to her. Goldie was such a little Gypsy that he knew every step of the trails for miles around?but what if he had lost his way? What if he were hurt? Larry would be very late, he had said. The flashlight was bright?she would go in search. Slipping into the next room without a word, she put on her warmest coat, gloves, and stout overshoes. Passing back through the kitchen, she secured the searchlight from the drawer, and with only a brief "I'll try to find Goldie for you," she was out in the crisp chill of the winter night. The big sled Larry used for hauling. EVERGREEN 649 fire-logs was against the porch, and this she dragged along behind her. In her heart was a little quiet prayer. "Please don't let sorrow come to us this Christmas Eve. Please, please lead me to Goldie." All along the way she tried to imagine how she would feel as she came back. If only she found the burden she sought. And if only it were not too limp and white and still a burden. As she walked rapidly down the road, she heard her name called. Mrs. McGee getting panic-stricken, no doubt. Anyway, there was no time to stop. Moments might 'be too precious. A short way up the slope' Ruth had to moderate her speed. The incline was steep, and as the moon passed behind a dense cloud-bank, she realized how dark and uncharted was the way, and began to wonder at her folly in attempting a solitary search in the blackness of the night. If only some sign might be given her. If only a single ray of hope might gleam more brightly within her heart. - Just then the clouds drifted apart, and from out their midst shone one bright, bright star, and to the frightened girl it might have been that glorious star that shone so fair another Christmas Eve, in Bethlehem. Courageously she renewed her climb, flashing the light to right and left of the path and calling at intervals, "Goldie! Yoohoo! Goldie!" And after about an hour which had seemed endless to her, when hope was waning, and the star had hidden itself in the clouds again, she heard the faint reply, "Yoo-hoo!" With joy pounding through her being, and forgetting the weariness and despair, she sped onward, calling once or twice, but saving her strength for the further physical effort which lay ahead. She came upon the boy suddenly, lying in the snow. One foot was caught in a gnarled root and his arms were full to overflowing of evergreen. Ruth dropped to her knees with an ecstatic little sob of relief and gratitude. "Goldie, old boy, are you hurt? Are you frozen? Oh, I'm so glad, so glad to have found you." "Hello. No, I don't believe I'm froze, but it'd be pretty chilly by mornin' I reckon." "Have you been lying here long, Goldie?" "Dunno just how long. Got my foot caught in something, and couldn't git around to git it Joose, somehow." Untangling him from the binding root was a matter of only a few moments. It was hard to tell how seriously his foot was injured, though the swelling was ugly enough to indicate something amiss. Ruth arranged the sled-rope in such a way as to make a pair of reins by which she could guide the sled from behind, and managed to get Goldie settled in a fairly comfortable position, with the evergreen held tight. As they began the difficult 650 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE descent, Goldie was heard to murmur happily, "If you ain't a peach! You sure are a peach." Getting down was a slow and very difficult process. The hill was steeper even than it had seemed in the climbing, and the dead weight of the boy carried the sled forward too fast, so that the strain on the girl was terrific. The blood pounded in her temples until it seemed that they would burst, and the ropes cut into her hands and burned with increasing pain. How long the trail! How much more of it could she endure? The way stretched on ahead, down and down, without the lights of the town even discernible. Goldie, weary and happy was fitfully sleeping, jerking out of his delicious drowsiness whenever an especially sharp bump was negotiated, then drifting back into a doze again. It began to snow, softly and soothingly, for a white Christmas. Ruth was only half conscious of the fact, for now a numbness had begun to creep over her, and a dullness into her brain. She felt as though she were a machine, going on and on, knowing that before long a cog would slip, and the whole engine stop. But no cog slipped, even though the hammering in every vein grew louder, and the throbbing pain more throbbing. It was almost unbearable, but through it all was the half-memory of another Christmas journey, when a woman, no doubt in pain, had made a long, hard trip, and had not faltered. Mary, whose little lad, born that night, had given the whole world all that it knew of love and service. Mary had endured. Ruth, too, could endure. And thus thinking hazily, almost past the awareness of her physical anguish, she tugged away at the ropes, and guided the sled on down the Galloway hill, safe into the flat east of the home road. It was over soon. Larry, having come in and found where she had gone, had already started up the road. Meeting the travelers, he picked Ruth up and carried her the rest of the way, with the rope caught over his arm to drag the sled and Goldie along behind. The kitchen door of the little home stood open, warmth and light streaming out a glad welcome. Mrs. McGee, her face streaming with tears, was standing back with pride warring with contrition for supremacy on her face. The sight of Ruth, white-faced and exhausted, melted the rancor and envy she had nourished, and in a flood of relief and shame, she dropped down beside the couch on which Larry had laid his wife, and burst into a confused babble. "Miss Ruth, can you ever forgive me, dearie? Can you ever forget what a horrible old woman said to you? To think you'd risk your own life to go out after my boy, and him gone to get me a present. I found the blessed message he whittled for me?and me sendin' you out with the bitter words and feelin' I did." EVERGREEN., 651 Ruth's answer was a wan smile, but one of complete forgiveness and understanding. Goldie, looking in amazement from one to the other, could scarcely comprehend what was going on. Something had happened. Something wonderful. His mother was looking at Miss Ruth as though she, liked her, and Miss Ruth was as glad looking as though she had already opened her Christmas mail. And right there in the middle of the room was standing the plant box for his mother?and she was seeing it before Christmas. "Aw shucks, Mom, this was supposed to surprise you tomorrow. That's what I went up on the mountain for?to get the evergreen. How'd you happen to come over here on Christmas Eve anyhow, and spoil the surprise?" Goldie McGee's mother turned on him a new look?and her face was suffused with a light he had never seen there before. "Why, Son, I came over fer two or three things, I s'pose. First I want to ask Miss Ruth if she'll accept a crocheted bedspread fer a Christmas gift; and then besides, I want to git the recipe fer the cookies you like so well." Goldie felt an electric shock go through him. Something had happened, sure enough, to show him that his mother did care about him after all. Words struggled for utterance, and then came forth incoherently. "Why, Mom, I didn't know you could be so pretty. If you ain't a peach! You sure are. And if I ain't glad I got you the evergreen! I sure am!" And the bells in the little town began to chime twelve, ushering in the beginning of Christmas Day. Memory By Vesta Pierce Crawford Thin-lined as a silver thread Are the winding roads of Nazareth. Misty as clouds hung out at sea Are the barren hills of Galilee. But Mary, I know, cannot forget The manger place at Bethlehem, The Christ on Olivet! Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief Society By Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held on October 3, 1929, in Salt Lake City, Utah. There were two sessions?a general officers' meeting in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building at 10 a. M., and a general session for the public in the Assembly Hall at 2 p. M. The attendance at the general session was notable?ten of the missions and more than seventy stakes had representation. With the exception of Mrs. Lalene H. Hart, who is on a mission with her husband in Canada, and Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde, who is acting as Collector of Customs in Honolulu, Hawaii, all General Board members were in attendance. President Louise Y. Robison presided at both sessions. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, general chorister, was in charge of the music, which was especially attractive. In the morning, the solo by Mrs. Edward herself, accompanied by Professor Beesley, and in the afternoon session the congregational and the choir numbers with the choice instrumental trio by the Evans Sisters, were all artistic and inspirational. Ushers were provided by four of the city stakes?Ensign, Liberty, Grant and Granite. Officers' Meeting MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer Before calling the roll of the stakes this morning, I take this opportunity of expressing my appreciation to the various stakes and missions for the prompt and helpful responses to our letter asking for suggestions relative to the record books for the stakes, the wards and the missions. Accept our thanks for the response which has been most general. We assure you that, just as far as it is possible, we have taken into account your suggestions. The books, now in course of preparation, will be ready for distribution in time for the beginning of the year's work. We sincerely appreciate your very hearty co-operation. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON On this beautiful morning I am thankful to see so many at this conference, and I greet you all with love and blessing. It is CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 653 encouraging to know that many who cannot be here are praying, with love in their hearts, for our success. We enjoy hearing from our presidents. We keep in touch with their work, and appreciate the presence of sisters from faraway stakes and missions. We have an unusual number of changes to report?probably never before so many changes as this year. With sorrow we report the death of one of our faithful, fine presidents, Sister Lily Belle Gledhill of the Sevier stake. A marvelous president, she was full of love, charity, and steadfastness, faithful all her life, having served the Relief Society for many years. After continued ill health, she passed away during the summer. The other presidents, too, have given faithful and fine service. Having carried the burden so long, they were willing to pass it on to someone else. The names of these splendid sisters we would like to present in token of our esteem for the work they have done. Organizations and Reorganizations Date Stake Released Appointed President June, 1929 Moroni Mrs. Anna Blackham (organized) Sept., 1929 Sharon. Mrs. Eva Giles (organized ) Gillespie April, 1929 Emery Mrs. Louisa Oveson Mrs. Margaret Peterson May, 1929 San Juan Mrs. Lucinda A. Redd Mrs. Hattie R. Barton May, 1929 Weber Mrs. Marianne _ Mrs. Katherine G. Browning Wright June, 1929 Summit Mrs. Mary P. Jordan Mrs. Myrtle Richens June, 1929 Sevier Mrs. Lily B. Gledhill Mrs. Estella P. Poulsen (deceased) July, 1929 Hyrum Mrs. Susannah Nielsen Mrs. Laura L. Christensen Aug., 1929 No. Davis Miss Emily Brough Mrs. Elizabeth H. Layton Aug., 1929 San Fran. Mrs. Eva B. Merrill Mrs. Sarah H. Carruth Aug., 1929 So. Sevier Mrs. Ada Anderson Mrs. Annetta Christensen Sept., 1929 Cottonwood Mrs. Vera P. Wahlquist Mrs. Emily M. Carlisle Sept., 1929 Wasatch ee Mima M. Broad Mrs. Nellie C. DeGraff Sept., 1929 Boise Mrs. Florence E. Lewis Mrs. Mary C. Martineau Sept., 1929 Shelley Mrs. Cora M. Mrs. Bessie Kelley Christensen Nov., 1928 East Central Mrs. Fanny S. Smith States Mission. June, 1929 Eastern Miss Olita Melville Mrs. Alice D. Moyle States Mission June, 1929 Northcentral Harriet H. Allred Mrs. Phoebe M. Welling United States Mission June, 1929 Tahitian Mrs. Vera T. Burton Mrs. Marguerite S. Mission Burbridge 654 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This summer we have suffered the loss of a beautiful woman, Sister Emily S. Richards, a former member of the General Board. To Brother Richards we feel to express the sympathy of the whole Relief Society. Many of you older sisters will remember Sister Richards when she visited your stakes, and will recall how kind and faithful she has been. As she always attended conference, we miss her here this morning. There are a few things we should like to explain. You know that at our October conference we try not to take up any new business, but just comment upon rulings already made. In early summer we sent a letter to the stakes concerning the 50c temple fund. We have asked that every Relief Society woman in the Church either do one day's work a year in the temple, or pay the equivalent, 50c a year, so that one woman can be redeemed by each member?a beautiful work which I am sure the Church has been very happy to have done. In the Relief Society we have over 60,000 women doing regular work, and possibly 30,000 others doing extra temple work, so that the women's work is far in advance of the men's. For the time being, we ask the sisters to try to get the brethren interested, either to do their work or to make contributions so that it can be done. Pooling the Wheat Interest: The General Board felt that by pooling the interest received from the wheat fund, more could be accomplished. In many stakes this plan has worked admirably. Wherever any bishops have not shared our viewpoint, but have encouraged the sisters to keep the interest in the wards, the stake presidents have been disturbed or discouraged because of this apparent lack of co-operation. The ruling has been modified to the effect that the wheat interest shall be used only for health purposes, and it is hoped that, in stakes where the funds are not pooled, none of our ward presidents will use a dollar of the fund without the approval of the stake president. Certain ward presidents write that they have no need of wheat interest for health purposes, and they desire to use it in building meeting houses or amusement halls. It is so difficult to imagine such a condition that we wish these ward sisters would confer with the stake officers. In stakes sparsely populated, it is difficult to pool funds without a great amount of work. Where wards are scattered, or where stake presidents have no definite plan for health work, our advice is that the fund be retained in the wards and expended under the advice of stake officers. Requests that we change our day of meeting from Tuesday afternoon have been numerous, but we feel that we should only lose by changing the day. So, unless it is with the request of the Priesthood presidency (and then kindly take it up with us) we advise that our meeting time remain Tuesday afternoon. In the missions the situation is different. I recall that in the East, the women in one district could meet just as well on Tues- CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 655 day afternoon because they were mostly the wives or mothers of students; while just a short distance away the membership was made up mostly of women who were working in factories and shops, and they could not attend in the afternoon. On program for Work and Business meetings, we have a committee from our General Board?Sisters Amy W. Evans and Lotta Paul Baxter?who will communicate with you. If we can find out which departments have been a success in your stake, we shall pass the plan on to another stake that is in need of help. This summer, in the Benson stake especially, we have had a beautiful expression of love for children. Sister Lyman and her helpers have arranged for sixty-four underprivileged children to be entertained there. We are grateful also to city stake Relief Societies that made it possible for these children to go. One local sister, Mrs. Mary P. Carlson, has made a valuable contribution each year. She sends her check to help pay for these children to go on trips. Other children have been sent out?two to Box Elder stake, one to Timpanogos, and one to Preston. I cannot think of anything more inspiring. When these children come home with gifts for mother, they have jellies and jams and other good things. Fourteen of our children have been at the tubercular camp where I had the opportunity of seeing them. We have great joy in store for you, since our dear Sister Williams is to give you a word of greeting. I shall be glad if you will stand for a minute to show your appreciation. PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS My dear?I hope I may say?fellow-workers, even though I have not been working very much, except with brain and heart. During the year that I have been away from you, you have been almost constantly in my thoughts. I feared that I could not control my emotions as I looked around and saw so many of those whom I knew so well and worked with so long; but I know that they feel, as I do, that it was a good time for someone else to take up the joys of Relief Society work. Next to your families, the work that you do in the Relief Society is the greatest joy 'that you have. With deep interest I have listened to the roll call, and to the report of President Robison. If I might make a suggestion, it is that you continue your missionary work of converting the brethren and the sisters to the thought that the wheat fund interest should be used solely for health work. I feel to lay this on you as a solemn mission. I believe that it carries on the sacred thought that our fore-mothers had when they instituted the gathering of the wheat, thus making it possible for this vast sum of money to be distributed to the wards and missions. It seems to me that in heaven they are looking, I will not say down, but around us, to know what we are doing and what our 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ideas and our objects are. Ill they not rejoice that you have grasped the spirit they had in gathering these funds? Will you not assume it as a solemn mission to educate first the brethren and then the sisters? Because there are few of our sisters not educated to this thought. Then it will be easier for you in your wards and in your stakes to see a little boy or a girl who needs a pair of spectacles; or one who should have his teeth filled; or another who needs an artificial limb; or a child who is tubercular and needs the assistance that science can give him. I desire to say again how much I love you, how sincerely I appreciate the work you are doing; and you that do not know me or that I do not know, I love just the same. If you are united and seek the spirit of the Lord you will succeed, and the Relief Society work will prosper. Think from what it has grown in all the years that are past, and look forward to what it may become in the future! Is this not a vision worth seeing? I pray that joy and happiness may reign in your homes, and that you may have pleasure in all the duties you have to perform. MRS. VERA T. BURTON Former President, Tahitian Mission Relief Societies There are few here that know just where the Tahitian Mission is. Many times I have been asked, Where is the Tahitian Mission? It takes in the whole group of the Society Islands, and is 2,000 miles south of the Hawaiian Islands, or just twice as far from here. You board the ship at San Francisco, then for ten days travel on the sea without seeing land. The first sight of land is the small island of Tahiti, and it looks very small, though it is ninety miles around and rises about 7,000 feet straight out of the water. The inhabitants are dotted along the sea shore. It is a beautiful place?it is like a flower garden. Papeete, the city, means a basket of water, so named because from the top of the 7,000 foot cliff is a wonderful waterfall, foaming down into the valley as if it were falling into a basket. The coloring is beautiful; the skies are the bluest I have ever seen, as are also the waters; and I have seen many waters. For three years in the Tahitian Mission there was just one white woman belonging to the Latter-day Saints and one white child, so that you can imagine how, at times, my feelings blended in with the azure skies and the blue ocean. But then, as we look back, we think of just the bright things, and Tahiti is really a beautiful place. Except in the small branch at Tahiti, I have not had much experience in the Relief Society, because we had to travel in small schooners covering from three to seven hundred miles. One trip I took is outstanding in my missionary experience. Boarding a
CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY ? 657
small schooner about 8 o'clock one Monday morning, we landed in Takaroa three and a half days later. Schooners are generally driven by the wind, but this one had a motor on it. Takaroa is a small coral island?you can hardly imagine how small. If you would just take off your wedding ring and plant it in Salt Lake, you can imagine how small it would seem as you look out and see the grand palms rising out of the water. The beautiful church house there stands out above the cocoanut palms?an inspiring sight. When we arrived, one of the sisters shook us by the hand, saying, "Live in our house as long as you are here." A beautiful little wooden bungalow it was, covered with flowers, the most beautiful roses, the soil for which she had carried from Papeete. Can you imagine anything more beautiful than this little house where we dwelt for five weeks, waiting for a ship to return to Papeete? I was the second white mission president's wife to visit the islands since our mission has been in the South Seas, and my little boy was the first white child of a missionary to go there, so you can imagine the joy and excitement among the people at our coming. In Tahiti they are doing Relief Society work just as we are trying to do it here. They have their funds for the poor; they take care of the dead; they wash the clothing, do the cooking, take care of the missionaries. They raise funds for the Relief Society by climbing the cocoanut trees for the nuts. These they crack open, take out the meat, then dry it and sell it to the traders. They have their quilting bees, making wonderful colored quilts. The beautifully blended colors are marvelous to us, their materials being poor, yet beautiful and effective. While we were there they were so happy that almost daily they feasted and banqueted us. The native people are the happiest you ever meet. They worry about nothing, being happy all the time, no matter what comes their way. It would be wonderful if we could have just one little bit of this in our make-up. In Tahiti the work conforms to the plan of lessons; but in the islands practically all Relief Society work is left to the elders, who do very well in teaching the native sisters. Once a month we have a regular work day. Three Tuesdays in the month are devoted to lesson work and other things pertaining to their families and the care of their children. They have their socials, and it is wonderful how beautiful they can make a social with their flowers. These dear sisters down there are devoted and sincere. If they had taken tea or coffee, they would go before the congregation of the church and ask to be forgiven and to be admitted back into the work.
658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
MRS. IDA S. PETERSON Former President, Danish Mission Relief Societies It is truly a pleasure to give a report of our little mission away over in Denmark. Most of the people there have to work for a living, and we have our Relief Society meetings in the evenings. We do not stop during the summer, but hold meetings the year round. This work is recreation to our people there. We have a sort of moving congregation; for as soon as they are able, they emigrate. To those who remain, we teach the fundamentals. They delight to hear about the gospel?the really big thing in the mission, since other things come afterwards. The true Relief Society spirit is with the Saints in the European Mission. The love of the gospel is great in their hearts, and, of course, that includes everything that is beautiful and good. The spirit of the work is wonderful. These people sacrifice everything. Our ward teaching in these cities is almost perfect. In each of our branches we have from 90% to 100% of the homes visited every month. There are seven fully organized branches. Copenhagen is a large and beautiful city. To meet the sisters requires that the visiting teachers ride street cars, buses, or walk; but they enjoy teaching. Denmark is a very beautiful country, and the Saints in Denmark love the gospel; thus the mission work is carried on there just as well as in the German or French missions. We keep in close touch with the missionaries, and all work together for the one great cause. We have enjoyed the Relief Society Magazine. I am happy to be back amongst you, and I wish to thank you for this opportunity of reporting. MISS OLITA MELVILLE Former President, Eastern States Mission Relief Societies I have been engaged in Relief Society work for the past two years only. The first year I was a member of the Boston Relief Society, and during the last year presided over the mission Relief Society. During that short period I have learned that it is an opportunity for every woman of the Church to be counted a member of the Relief Society. My experience in this work has impressed upon me more than ever the truth of the saying that it is more blessed to give than to receive. Last November there were 27 Relief Societies in the Eastern States Mission. During the year we had the pleasure of organizing new ones at Syracuse, Oceanside and Palmyra; also in White Sulphur Springs and New Martinsville, West Virginia. The New York Relief Society was divided into three, adding two more to our total, which brought it up to 35, with a membership of approximately 500. Relief Society work in the Eastern States Mission, unlike that at home, has many different types of Societies. Some are com-
CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY ? 659
posed entirely of university women, who have a good understanding of the work, with splendid lessons. Others, composed of sisters who are converts from foreign countries, labor under great difficulty because of their handicap with the language; yet they have the spirit of their work at heart, and they are doing wonderfully well. In some of our remote districts the women walk miles to attend, and many of them never miss a meeting during the year. With some this is their only source of education, and they are learning to become better mothers and better wives. When people see what the sisters are doing, they desire to become affiliated with such an organization and become members. Then they study the lessons. As soon as they learn that the gospel has been restored, they are baptized. There is a divine plan in all things; I believe that we are sent to the place where we are most needed and are given means and abilities with which to uplift ourselves. During the last two months of my mission I had the opportunity of traveling with Sister Moyle, my successor. I learned to love her, and am happy that one so capable is to take the work over. When we think of the first organization, and the small number at that time, then look over this great gathering of women here today, we feel the words of the Prophet at the first meeting have been fulfilled: "And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days to this Society." I love this work because it comes nearest to the hearts of those in trouble, and not only gives relief, but also saves souls. MRS. HARRIET H. ALLRED Former President, Northcentral States Mission Relief Societies I rejoice this morning that I have the privilege of giving a brief outline of the Northcentral States Mission Relief Society. When I was called to undertake this task I scarcely knew where to begin; but with the help of the Lord, and of my husband, I was able, in some degree, to do this work. It has been a great joy? it has been my recreation; I have never considered it work. It entailed much activity, and the work of the mission president is a little different from that of the stake president, because there is more territory to cover. Our mission comprises part of what used to be the Canadian mission, that is, Manitoba and Saskatchewan, the Dakotas and Minneapolis, a tiny bit of Wisconsin, a small piece of Ontario, and the very slight eastern edge of Alberta. We had only one Relief Society in Canada?in Winnipeg, where we have a very fine branch. In Montana we have four branches?Billings, Belfry, Harlem, and Chinook. In the Montana districts we have women who had been in Relief Society work at home; so I feel that we were more than blessed in having such experience available. We
660 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
started with five organizations; when I left in July, there were nine and one district. We have other branches?one in St. Paul, one in Minneapolis, one in Grand Forks, South Dakota. We have one teachers' district, by way of experiment, in Bergland, Ontario, which is forty or fifty miles from Winnipeg. There are a few sisters living in Bergland who wished to do Relief Society work. Their numbers were too few for an organization, but they were eager and anxious for the privilege. We made a plan for them, which seemed to be working well when I left in July, whereby they function under the wing of the Winnipeg branch. We call them the Bergland District of the Winnipeg Relief Society. If this plan works out all right, probably there may be other districts organized. I met many wonderful women?many real Latter-day Saint women, who have the gospel and the welfare of each other at heart. We appreciated the assistance of the missionaries in the Relief Society work. They came and helped us with our meetings. Occasionally we had to ask one to be an officer. We prefer to use the local talent, but where that was not available, the lady missionaries were called to assume the responsibility. But the elders had to help with the organizing, and very often they would say: "Sister Allred, if we had known that we would have this phase of the work to do in our missionary labors, we would certainly have paid more attention to Relief Society work before we came here. We did not realize the importance of it, and the wonderful things that may be learned, and the help it may become to a community." The Minneapolis branch was the largest of the nine, and had about 45 members; St. Paul had 41. The lesson work, as a rule, worked out beautifully. Some of the sisters have said that the lessons just seemed to fit in, being just what they needed every time they came to study them. General Session PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON We are especially happy to see so many of our dear sisters here on this day which had so beautiful a beginning. A call from President Grant said that he could not be with us, but asked me to give his love and blessings, with greetings from the First Presidency. This morning our own President Clarissa S. Williams extended her love and greetings to all of us. Sister Vilate R. Ivins, from the Hawaiian Islands, was instructed by the sisters there to bring greetings from them, not to the Relief Society of Scandinavia, or of the Southern or the Western States, but to the Relief Society of the entire Church. MRS. VILATE R. IVINS If I were standing before a group of Hawaiian people, I would say 'Aloha', and they would answer back, "Aloha." The
CONFERENCE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 661
love this word conveys is greater than that of any other word you can think of. The Hawaiian women are big in body and in heart; full of "aloha" for the work of the Lord. At the head of our Relief Society in Hawaii is Sister Oliva S. Waddoups, a wonderfully fine woman, in charge also of the women's work in the Hawaiian Temple. Her two counselors are fine Hawaiian women; there may be some in the congregation who know Sister Fernandez?a life-long friend to the missionaries and still strong in the faith. As well as bringing the "Aloha" from the Hawaiian people, I bring it also from the Samoan, Japanese, and Tahitian people. In our meetings is the dearest old Japanese sister ? one of the first converts to the Church in Japan. Faithful in the work, she first went into the temple not understanding a word of English; yet she understood everything that was said to her. Our work in Hawaii is similar to that reported by mission presidents today. We follow the Relief Society Magazine ? the theology lessons, the testimony days, the work and business meetings. Our women make beautiful quilts, take care of the sick, bury the dead. Among the lady missionaries is a nurse, Sister Gedge, from Salt Lake City. Our enrollment is large; the mission includes five islands. At the present time they are having their conference in Hawaii, sometimes spoken of as the metropolis of the world, because of the different nationalities there. PRESIDING BISHOP SYLVESTER Q. CANNON This gathering is evidence to me of the interest that is manifest in Relief Society work. I was impressed in listening to the talks that were made this afternoon. I do not believe you really know how powerful your influence is; and if you do begin to appreciate how important it is, I am sure you will realize the care that should be exercised in all that you do in your official capacity. Outside people say, "If we could only get the Relief Society to help us, we should be sure of success." They have even said that the Relief Society is able to put over elections. We do not admit that to be true; but it shows that many people think that the Relief Society has political as well as moral influence. The Relief Society has various fields of activity from an educational, a moral and a spiritual standpoint. One of the important duties is the administration of relief. We have suggested to the bishoprics of all of the wards that they ought to place that work where it can be effectively carried out. The bishop can turn over to the Relief Society the investigation of charity cases, and can be assured of proper investigation; and recommendations for relief, if carried out by the Relief Society, will remedy the condition. When I speak of relief I do not mean financial
662 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
relief only, but other service that will enable every family and every part of a family to become self-sustaining and independent. PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON A General Board member came back from one of the stakes where she had been for several days; some of the sisters had taken her to the train. When she came home she said, "I have resolved, after seeing what those wonderful ward presidents do, that I will do better work.' You do stimulate the General Board. This General Board representative said that what the ward president had done in the ward she had visited was almost unbelievable; and I think that is true of every one of our ward presidents. I pray that you will have health and strength, that you will have influence in your homes, that the Lord will bless you with your people, that you will know their needs, that no child will be neglected and that no person who is in your care will suffer. I thank you for coming out, I thank these busy men who have come to help us today. I thank Brother Tracy Y. Cannon who came and helped us with our music, and Sister Edward, and all who have helped to make our meeting a success. The proceedings of the conference will be continued in subsequent issues of the Magazine Children's Books By Lala Vernon Hales "No college English, no finishing school course in art and literature, will give men and women what they might have had if books had been as much their friends in childhood as the children next door." To select books for children it is absolutely necessary to have a clear conception of their interests and activities. The child will miss a natural companionship with books if we select the books that ought to be read instead of the books that will be read. Choose Books of Action The little child lives in the immediate present; he wishes to hear about things that belong to his environment?what he sees, hears, or handles. He likes best to hear his own experiences reproduced exactly as they have happened to him. The most representative contribution to the experience story is Here and Now Story Book (E. P. Dutton). A little later the child wants to hear stories about other children who do the things he likes to do. Here is the place for: stories of dogs, cats, rabbits, and other animals. He will appreciate immensely Helen Bannerman's The Story of Little Black Sambo (Stokes) because Sambo had just those experiences which he longs to have. He is not yet ready for fairy tales or any
CHILDREN'S BOOKS 663
thing remote, fantastic, or far away. After full experience with the actual he will enter more freely and joyously the world of the imagination. When Romance Begins Later, during the third and fourth years in school, the child reaches out for the vivid, the romantic, the thrilling. His interest in people calls for hero books. They may be fairly long, for the child has discovered the charm of the book "that lasts a long time." Do not give abridgments to children; they are unsatisfactory, confusing, and unliterary in approach. One recalls Anne Carroll Moore's statement against abridgments and adaptations?"A piece of literature is an organism and should therefore be put before the scholar, no matter how young, with its head on and standing on both its feet." Rather than give the child abridgments, Miss Moore would have him learn "judicious skipping," as by omitting the long descriptions in Scott and Cooper. They are now ready for Robinson Crusoe (Scott. Foresman and Company). With adolescence, love for adventure becomes closely related to the quest for realization of youth's ideals; and the literature chosen must voice dreams and visions. Now come the stories of King Arthur, the Odyssey, the Song of Roland. We may use some of the finer new things such as Cornelia Meigs' The New Moon (Macmillan) to excite curiosity and induce more reading. Thus the new literature may be used as a stepping stone to the classics. Avoid "Series" Books All early books for children should be told in strong motor terms and should be simple stories of actual child experience. This is the surest guide in selecting literature for the young child. As to the "series habit," which is too easy and encourages mental laziness and satisfaction with the obvious, we can do two things. Give the child many kinds of vivid experiences in daily life to develop his mental alertness and curiosity. This will enable him to reject the colorless, commonplace experiences of the "series books", and will surround him with desirable books with which the poorer ones cannot compete. Once alive to the delights afforded by good books that tell him things that he wants to know, a child is well on the way toward developing valuable reading habits, which will endure for a lifetime and which will fill with profit and pleasure the leisure time that is fraught with possibilities for good or ill. There is no child who does not care to read if the right books can be found. Children Like Poetry As the unwaning popularity of Mother Goose testifies, children like genuine poetry. In poetry children prefer direct, colorful rhythms, lively actions, and rollicking humor. Poetry be-
664 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
longs to children. They warmly welcome the fine poetry of Walter de la Mare. When parents and teachers have allowed them to, they have cared for the matchless songs of childhood in William Blake's Songs of Innocence (Minton, Balch & Co.). During the tenth and eleventh years children demand ballad poetry. Among the new things they are ready for John Neihardt's The Song of Hugh Glass (Macmillan). Children also appreciate much of our best lyric poetry, but they must be allowed the utmost freedom in following individual preferences. The poetry of Robert Louis Stevenson and Eugene Field should not be given indiscriminately to the young children. Many of their poems are appreciated later on. They Like Men and Nature Children are genuinely interested in biography if it conforms to their natural predilections. Biography exerts a powerful influence, next only to the influence of a personal friend, and should be given in plentiful amount. Helen Nicolay's The Boy's Life of Abraham Lincoln (Century) is good. Books of geography and travel also are fascinating to children. As to Nature stories?'no fairy tale, no story of adventure, possesses greater power to command the interest of the child than do true stories of insects, birds, plants, animals, stars, man, and the earth itself, provided they are well presented through skillfully selected material." The Burgess Flower Book for Children and the Burgess Animal Book for Children (Little, Brown & Co.) are delightful mediums of introduction to the flower and animal life about them. Get Illustrated Books The best illustrated books for children are good economy as a rule, "since it is the best literature which has attracted to its service the work of the best artists. One book of pleasing proportions, with good paper, attractive print, wide margins, artistic binding, and beautifully conceived and executed illustrations which fit a worth-while text, is worth a dozen cheap editions of the same text. Children need good and beautiful bindings. You can give books to children but you cannot make them like them. The book must do that. The picture books of Randolph Caldecott are very good, especially his The House That Jack Built, The Babes in the Wood, Sing a Song of Sixpence (Warne & Co.). The above material has been gleaned from A Handbook of Children's Literature written by Emelyn E. Gardner of the College of the City of Detroit and Eloise Ramsey of the Detroit Teachers College. It was published recently and is without doubt one of the finest of its kind. It is sane, conservative, exhaustive. To the wide-awake teacher or mother it is indispens-
CHILDREN'S BOOKS 665
able. Besides the material touched upon above, there is included a valuable course of study which enables any mother to guide her children through an entire course, beginning in babyhood and ending well after adolescence. It ought to assist materially in answering the annual question "What books shall I give my children for Christmas?" GREETINGS HEALTH Childhood Tuberculosis By H. E. Kleinschmidt, M. D. Few people know that children may have a disease of the lung glands which is different from adult tuberculosis, but often a forerunner of it. When discovered during childhood the prospects are far brighter of maintaining health than when the child has grown up, and the disease may have developed into the commonly known type of tuberculosis. Because of this, one of the primary reasons for conducting the Christmas seal sale is to raise money to promote the early discovery of those children who now have within their bodies the seeds of grave future danger. Usually the condition is unknown to the family. There are no clear and unmistakable evidences of it apparent to the eye of the physician at a cursory examination. Its detection requires special skill and experience aided by the tuberculin test and the X-ray. Certain warning signals indicate those children who should be given the benefit of these tests. The child may show signs of underweight and slight weakness; his appetite may be poor; he may be somewhat pale; he may tire easily and be lacking in pep. But all these symptoms may be due to other causes?only the tuberculin test and X-ray in the hands of a competent doctor can ascertain the facts with certainty. In the beginning this condition is not lung tuberculosis at all. The breathing surface has not been invaded. In childhood the disorder is usually confined to small glands about the size of beans, which are located at the point where the windpipe divides into two branches, one going to each lung. These glands serve as filters. If the germs of tuberculosis get into the lung, the lung glands tend to stop them from getting into the blood circulation, but in doing so the glands may themselves become damaged. Ultimately the injured portion of the gland is replaced by a hard gritty substance called calcium, which makes a distinct shadow on the X-ray plate. Children who live or have lived in homes with adults having tuberculosis should be given these tests, as it is close contact with
666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the disease that is most dangerous. Undernourished children who fail to respond to intelligent feeding and plenty of sleep should also be examined. Perhaps the best thing is for all children to have such a thorough examination, with X-ray and tuberculin test. Lung gland tuberculosis can usually be prevented from developing into lung tuberculosis. By shielding children from receiving additional large doses of tubercle bacilli, active tuberculosis can usually be avoided. If there is another case of tuberculosis in the family and it is impossible for him or her to be in a sanitarium, every precaution should be taken, such as never kissing the child, scalding and washing separately all dishes and eating utensils and destroying the sputum, preferably by burning. The patient most certainly must sleep alone. The child with lung gland tuberculosis should be relieved of all possible strain at home and in school. Strenuous exercise and fatigue must be avoided. Defects, such as bad teeth and tonsils, must be corrected and good daily health habits cultivated. Nourishing food, sunshine and fresh air in abundance are essential. Ten or more hours of sleep at night and rest periods of an hour or more morning and afternoon are necessary. Just as rest is the secret of successful treatment of tuberculosis, so also is it the most important preventive of that disease. In fact, everything possible should be done to build up the child's general health. Preventoria established in some communities conduct special supervised school work for children threatened with tuberculosis, heart disease and other handicaps. These schools aim to help parents carry out the health-building program outlined above. Such all-year-round work as is here described is fostered by the National Tuberculosis Association and its 1,400 affiliated organizations throughout the country. They are conducting their annual Christmas seal sale from Thanksgiving Day through Christmas. In Utah the Tuberculosis Association is combating the disease by teaching the importance of frequent health examinations, and the necessity of keeping the children up to their normal weight. The Christmas Seal Camp, in Big Cottonwood Canyon, which is conducted for six weeks each summer, is one of the ways in which this education is accomplished. Here children are not only properly fed and supervised but they learn health habits, which enable them to continue the improvement in health which begins in Camp. The second means of carrying on tuberculosis prevention is the field nurse, who goes from county to county promoting health examinations, clinics, teaching classes of mothers and, when there is no county health service, making inspection of school children. The third means used is the furnishing of health teaching material to school teachers. This consists of posters, pamphlets and plays. These activities are made possible through the sale of Christmas seals. Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) BOOK OF MORMON Lesson 5. The Good King Benjamin This lesson, which includes the material between pages 150 and 181 of the Book of Mormon, falls naturally into three sections, as is shown by the following brief outline: Outline 1. The words of Enos. (a) His "wrestle before God. (b) Conditions during his time. 2. The words of Jarom. (a) Who Jarom was. (b) Conditions in his day. 3. The words of Omni, Chemish, Abinadom, and Amaleki. II. The words of Mormon. 1. Who Mormon was. 2. When he lived. 3. His abridgment. III. Beginning of the Larger Plates (Mosiah). 1. Conditions in 124 B. C. 2. King Benjamin. (a) Type of man and king. (b) His speech from the tower. (1) On service. (2) On duties of kingship. (3) On Christ. (4) On Charity. 3. Mosiah II. (a) Character, Education. (b) Delegation to Land of Nephi. Notes 1. The Words of Mormon. It was said in a previous lesson that one of the difficulties found in reading the Book of Mormon lies in its structure. In the present lesson this difficulty comes into clear view. For, at the conclusion of the Small Plates of I. Close of the Small Plates of Nephi.
668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Nephi (page 157), 200 B. C., we come all of a sudden upon "the Words of Mormon," a character who lived some four hundred years after Christ. We learned in our last lesson how this comes about. The larger plates of Nephi, which were but one set out of many during the history of the Nephites, were used to set down the events year by year as they took place. But the small plates of Nephi covered only the first four hundred years of Nephite history, and were "more religious" than the larger plates. And when Martin Harris lost the first part of the manuscript translation, Joseph made a translation of the small plates, instead of retranslating the other account. Of course the "Words of Mormon" form an introduction to what follows, or a link between the two. Notice the difference between the two translations, so far as the form is concerned. The translation of the small plates is in the first person, while that of the work that follows?at least the abridgment part?is in the third person. And this fact is in harmony with the assumption that the Prophet made a translation of a real record, instead of making up the work out of his head, as he is charged with having done. If the third person had been used throughout the first 157 pages, which is not supposed to be an abridgment at all, then it would have been a very serious objection to the Book of Mormon claims to being the history of a real people, which would be very hard to overcome, if not impossible. But as it is, it is a striking evidence to the truth of its claims. 2. A Sidelight on Prophecy. One of the illuminating sidelights on life and religion so often appearing in the Book of Mormon comes in connection with this episode of the Small Plates. A good many people find themselves puzzled over the apparent casual connection between human agency and prophecy. If an event is foreseen a dozen or a thousand years before it happens, it is sometimes thought that the mere foreseeing of it makes it come to pass by a sort of predestination. But that is not the case. There is no relation whatever between the act and the foreseeing of the act by the Lord. The Lord, twenty-four hundred years before the revelation of the Book of Mormon to the Prophet Joseph, foresaw that Martin Harris would lose the manuscript, and, foreseeing that act on the part of Martin, prepared for it. The act of Martin Harris in losing the manuscript would have happened anyway whether or not the Lord anticipated it and provided against it, for that was the man's disposition and nature, as brought about by the play of cause and effect. And the Lord did not see fit on this occasion to interfere in the situation. But, knowing that a certain condition
GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 669
would arise, he provided for it beforehand. The Lord did not make Harris lose that manuscript. 3. Benjamin a Just Ruler. The account of King Benjamin in the Book of Mormon is surely one of the high lights of the Nephite Record as we have it. This covers the first six chapters of Mormon's Abridgment. A ruler is supposed to be a guide to the people in their struggle towards the light. But how rarely has this been the case in the history of mankind. As a rule, the kings and emperors have acted on the assumption that the people were made for them instead of them for the people. And that was particularly true before the rise of the people to political power. It is too often true today, also, when self-seeking politicians get into office. But here, in Benjamin, we have a model king. His character and acts cannot be duplicated in history. Alfred the Great in early England comes the nearest to being like Benjamin of any we can think of. And even if we look upon the Book of Mormon as a work of fiction, conceived by Joseph Smith, as some critics would have us believe, instead of a history of a real people, as the Saints contend, it is assuredly a fine and energizing thing to have created a character as noble and conscientious as King Benjamin. He is as tender toward his subjects as a kindly father is of his own children, and as solicitous about their welfare. Moreover, he is a Christian?and that is saying a great deal,?for even Christians today do not always act like Christians. And the people respond nobly to his appeal to their better selves. His teachings are far in advance of his day, whether you consider the Nephite nation or contemporary nations in Europe. He works for a living instead of taxing the people to support him in regal state. While he has punished, as king, any transgression of the law, yet he has not attempted to be unjust, or to enslave any of his subjects, as he might have done. On the contrary, he has taught them the principles of self-government and helped them to put these into practice. But most of all, he places himself on an equality with them, puts himself on the same level with them. This is most extraordinary in a king. He says, for instance, that he has the same infirmities of body and mind as they have. Nor does he take to himself any credit for being their king, for he was chosen king and has been "suffered" by the Lord to be their ruler. This, too, is extraordinary in a king. And then look at his advanced views on service. Service is the slogan of the twentieth century, not only in religion but in business as well. But here is a king who made that his ideal twenty-one hundred years ago. Even if we make King Benjamin the creation of Joseph Smith, still he is three-quarters of a century ahead of his time. And the idea of service is elaborated upon
670 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
by this early ruler. "If I, whom you call your ruler," he says, "do labor to serve you, then had not ye ought to labor to serve one another?" And then he adds that since he serves the people, they should serve one another, and all serve God. "When ye are in the service of your fellow beings," he tells his people, "ye are only in the service of God." Here is the true Christian ideal of life, which the world has been nineteen hundred years trying to grasp, and our comprehension of it at the end of this period is not nearly so clear as that of this humble Nephite king. Benjamin also had some fundamental ideas on charity. The Nephites had the poor among them, it appears?as indeed what nation has not? Also they had among them persons who felt that the poor were poor because they had brought upon themselves their poverty, and who said this to justify themselves in not relieving the distress they saw around them. But the kindly Benjamin told them plainly that in saying this they had "great cause to repent" and that except they repented they would "perish forever" and have "no interest in the kingdom of God." That was strong doctrine. The only legitimate motive for giving is love, the king taught. "Love one another," he said, "and serve one another." A wonderful king was Benjamin, and a wonderful man?a true Christian. Questions 1. Explain how it is that we have the Small Plates of Nephi instead of the regular abridgment of Mormon. Suppose we had the lost manuscript abridgment, what difference would we observe? 2. Tell the incident of Martin Harris' loss of the Book of Mormon manuscript. (History of the Church, Vol. I, pp. 20-28.) 3. Refute the idea that a person's acts are predestined to take place. What is the difference between "predestination" and "foreordination?" 4. Who was Mormon? When did he live? How comes it that his "Words" appear in our Book of Mormon 125 years before Christ? 5. Describe the character of King Benjamin. Why is it remarkable that we should have such a person before the Christian Era? How do you account for his character and teachings? 6. Tell about Benjamin's ideas (a) on equality, (b) on service, (c) on charity. 7. Are his ideas on charity as applicable today as they were then? Why do you think so? What are our modern notions as to why some people are poor and how they should be looked after? What effect has indiscriminate giving (a) on the giver and (b) on the receiver? GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 671 LESSON II Work and Business Teachers' Topic for February (This topic to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in February) PATRIOTISM I. Definition. Patriotism is a love of country and a devotion to its welfare.? Daniel Webster. "I therefore believe it my duty to my country, to love it, to support its Constitution, to obey its laws, to respect. Its flag, and to defend it against all enemies.'?The American's Creed by W. T. Page. II. Value of Patriotism. A. Creates love of country. "Breathes there a man with soul so dead, who never to himself hath said, ?This is my own, my native land? "?The Lay of the Last Minstrel by Scott. B. Encourages observance of law. One of our solemn duties today is to stand by the Constitution and the flag of our country?to pledge a new allegiance to both. We know that the American flag stands for liberty under the law; that liberty is protected and made safe by law; and that only through obedience to law can liberty exist. Peace and security, which result from a good government, depend upon obedience to good laws. "Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land."? Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 58, verse 21. "And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me; "Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church, in befriending that Jaw, which is the constitutional law of the land."?Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 98, verses 5, 6. C. Promotes Security of Life, Liberty, Property. "Nowhere in the world is there a government of sq much liberty and equality,"-?Lincoln. 672 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Our country asks us to live for her, and so to live and to act that her government may be pure, her officers honest, and every corner of her territory a place fit to grow the best men and women ??thank God, I am an American.'"?Daniel Webster. D. Develops respect for the flag, and thus Aids in creating the proper national spirit. "Through all the ages some flag has been an emblem to inspire men's hearts with confidence and hope and reverence." Do we understand the proper observance and use of the flag, and know its history? III, Cultivation of Patriotism. By knowledge of history and laws. By reading biographies of statesmen and pioneers. By learning songs, stories, and traditions. By observance of national holidays. By cultivating peace-time patriotism. MOOS "There is a necessity of remembering that carelessness and lawlessness are apt to manifest themselves during protracted peace times rather than during war. ?Eternal Vigilance is the price of liberty.' "'?Law Observance and Enforcement Bulletin, "So its home again, and home again, America for me, My heart is turning home again and there I long to be, In the land of youth and freedom beyond the ocean bars, Where the air is full of sunlight and the flag is full of stars." ?Henry Van Dyke. The Names of Santa Claus As Christmas draws near, the name of Santa Claus becomes vividly present in all children's thoughts. It is often on the lips of their parents. Too, with this and that admonishment to be good! Santa Claus is also called St. Nicholas, and, sometimes, Kriss Kringle. It is interesting to find out where he received these names. St. Nicholas, according to Webster's New International Dictionary, was a bishop of Myra, Asia Minor, about the year 300 A. D. "He is the patron saint of Russia, and of seafaring men, thieves, virgins, and children." From these multifarious duties, St. Nicholas seems to have selected one by which to be best known. "As the bearer of presents to children on Christmas Eve his name has been corrupted to Santa Claus," or, as it is occasionally spelled Santa Klaus. Kriss Kringle is a quite different name. It comes from the German "Christkindl," meaning the Christ child, or a Christmas gift, a diminutive of "Christ kind." GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 673 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) THE LOST COMMANDER?FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE By Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews is the daughter of the Rt. Rev. Jacob Shaw and Ann Louise Shipman. On December 31, 1884, she married William Shankland Andrews. The first story by which she was widely known was "The Perfect Tribute" which was published in 1906. Since that time she has written a number of books and various articles for some of the best magazines. She is now living at Splitrock, Syracuse, New York. "A great commander was lost to England when Florence Nightingale was born a woman."?Sir Edward Cook. Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews takes the above quotation as a sort of thesis for her very readable life of Florence Nightingale, the mother of modern nursing. That idea is like the ground cloth of a piece of tapestry behind the colorful patterns of the twelve chapters of the volume which was published in 1929 by Doubleday, Doran & Company, Garden City, New York. On account of the fact that she has been a rather prolific writer since about 1906, Mrs. Andrews will not be a stranger to most of the Relief Society sisters. Her little story of Abraham Lincoln? "The Perfect Tribute'"?was one of the most popular short stories of the first quarter of this century and has had a very wide circulation. Those who know her work will have some idea before reading it what The Lost Commander is like, especially from the literary point of view. Mrs. Andrews in this as well as in many of her other works, has a tendency to be over sentimental. But in the main she restrains her story except in dramatic places where she allows herself to drift dangerously near to what newspaper men call "sob stuff." She has a facility of expression, however, and an imagination which add charm to the story. Mrs. Andrews begins the book with an imaginary incident in the life of Florence Nightingale. She pictures the little girl ready for a ride in the carriage with her very dignified and stylish mother at Embly, Hampshire, England, where the Nightingales lived. The nurse leaves the child for a moment while she goes away to attend to something. In that moment a dirty, wounded cat comes along, excites the pity of the little girl, who scoops her up in her arms, much to the detriment of the immaculate clothes she is wearing. The author introduces this imaginary episode to indicate that Miss 674 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Nightingale, though a child of wealth and ease, the daughter of dignified English gentle folk, had from earliest childhood profound interest in the wounded, the maimed, and the sick of all classes. This bent in the girl s character is traced through her young womanhood to the time when she took up nursing as a life's work. On account of the author's propensity to mix imaginary incidents with the facts, the reader is sometimes a bit bewildered and is not sure just which is fact and which is fancy. This adds to the literary interest of the book, no doubt, but detracts from its value as biography. Another disconcerting feature is the frank statement that the author has set out to show that Florence Nightingale was in truth a "lost commander." With that thought comes the suspicion that the author has selected her facts, not to give a true and adequate picture of her subject, but to prove that she really might have been a great general had not fate made her a woman. Mrs. Andrews is bitter in her denunciation of Strachey, the English biographer, on the ground that he purposely selects uncomplimentary facts to present, thus painting an incorrect portrait. She says, "Strachey is a very 'smart-Aleck' artist indeed, whose trick is to make his sitters as ugly as possible, and yet preserve a likeness." And again: "People ought to condemn the more Strachey's dishonesty. If Strachey were dull, one could forgive him?in fact, one would probably not read him. A clever criminal deserves a deeper hell than a stupid one, not only because he does more damage but because he is more aware of his damaging." Of course the reader smiles over that statement, for Mrs. Andrews might be accused of selecting only those features to paint in that will show Florence a great commander, a fine figure everywhere. She may be merely looking at the other side of the shield. She does admit, reluctantly, that in the Lady-in-Chief's last years she was imperious, almost impossible, but she excuses her as deftly as she can. Despite its faults, the book is very much worth while in that it does give an interesting picture in an interesting way of this great leader of modern women, who gave her life to a great cause; a work out of which has radiated many movements that have been important in the evolution of the world in the direction of better health, better care of soldiers during both war and peace, better care of all sick, in fact, and a clearer understanding of women. According to Mrs. Andrews, she was the first woman ever to be appointed to any important office in the British government. Florence Nightingale was the daughter of Frances Smith and William Shore, who later, on account "of inherited property, took the name of Nightingale. This high-minded, splendid young couple went to the continent for their honeymoon, remaining several years in Italy. While there, two daughters were born to them, GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 675. Frances Parthenope and Florence, named after the cities of their birth. The younger, Florence, was born in 1820. Upon their return to England in 1821, the family lived at Lea Hall and later at Lea Hurst, Hampshire, on the Derwent River. In 1825 Embley Park was secured by Mr. Nightingale and also became a home of the family. The girls were well trained by Mrs. Nightingale in the art of managing a household, and, according to the times, were given a thorough education. Florence could speak several languages fluently and was accomplished in other ways. Though these girls had everything that. Position and wealth could afford, Florence was restless, feeling that life without some high purpose was not sufficient. While yet a very young lady she went on a visit to Rome, where she met Sidney Herbert and his charming wife, becoming intimate with both and loving both dearly. This was a very important acquaintanceship for the reason that Sidney Herbert later became Secretary of War and assisted Florence Nightingale in carrying on her chosen work. To indicate the bent of the girl's mind, it is interesting to note that in 1850 she wrote in her diary: "I am thirty, the age at which Christ began his mission. Now, no more childish things, no more love, no more marriage. Now, Lord, let me think only of Thy will." Mrs. Andrews reviews briefly the history of nursing; she shows that nursing in the modern sense was not known at that time. Sisters of charity, it is true, had nursed the sick since early Christian times, but in continental Europe and England the nurses of Florence Nightingale's time were "drunken, immoral, and untrained." In 1833 Pastor Theodor Fliedner, of Kaiserswerth, Germany, founded a school for nurses. He had in mind, however, only sisters of the Church. This school really got under way in 1836, when Florence was sixteen years of age. She heard of the Fliedner school in 1846 through a report which was sent to her by Baron Bunson. Despite the entreaties of her parents, especially her mother, she entered this school in 1851 and remained three months. She had found her work. "This is life," she wrote. "Now I know what it is to love life." In 1853 she went to visit the sisters of charity in Paris and to study the whole nursing situation. Later she became superintendent of one of the nursing homes in Harley Street, Paris, where she received training that was of paramount importance. In the year when she went to Paris came the Crimean War. British soldiers, fighting hundreds of miles from home, were poorly cared for when they fell sick or were wounded. A dispatch from Constantinople said: "No sufficient preparations have been made 676 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the care of wounded, not sufficient surgeons, no dressers and nurses.... In Scutari it is found that the commonest appliances of a workhouse sick ward are wanting, that men die through the medical staff of the British Army forgetting that old rags are necessary for the dressing of wounds." On October 14 and 15, 1854, Florence Nightingale and Sidney Herbert exchanged letters regarding the matter, and in seven days 38 nurses had been recruited to send to the front. On October 27 they sailed from France, arriving in Constantinople on November 4. These women and their Lady-in-Chief found four miles of cots six inches apart, each bearing its wounded soldier, most of whom had not received the commonest kind of first aid. These women literally rolled up their sleeves and went to work. Mrs. Gaskell, the novelist, said of Florence Nightingale, "She seemed as completely led by God as was Joan of Arc:" so wholeheartedly did she enter into nursing and so indomitable was she in securing what she wanted for the soldiers. Sidney Herbert said, "Those thirty-eight nurses on the way to Scutari are truer successors to the apostles shipwrecked at Melita than thirty-eight cardinals." Mrs. Andrews cleverly connects Tennyson's "Charge of the Light Brigade" with this charge of the women upon the war sufferers. Her comparison is made all the more effective by the fact that the battle of Balaclava had just been fought when the nurses arrived and many of the wounded of the famous "six hundred" fell to their charge. The treaty of peace was signed in Paris March 30, 1856; on August 6, Florence Nightingale returned to England. Funds had already been gathered for a nurse's home, but it was not until 1859 that Florence Nightingale began the school. She advertised for candidates, and on June 24, 1860, fifteen probationers were admitted. They became the first lay nurses in the world's history and a new profession had been born. The first class of 13 was graduated in 1861. Nursing, Mrs. Andrews declares, is Florence Nightingale's greatest and most lasting monument, although she was instrumental in opening the whole world to the entrance of women. It was not until 1871 that Dr. Susan Dimock established the first nursing school in America. The closing years of Miss Nightingale's life?she never married?though she suffered much from illness, were active ones. She would not stop until many of the evils she had seen during the war were wiped out. She was instrumental in having a Royal Commission with four sub-commissions established. These Mrs. Andrews calls Miss Nightingale's four chicks. They were: 1. A sub-commission to put barracks and hospitals in sanitary order. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 677 2. A commission to organize a statistical department. 3. A sub-commission to institute an army medical school. 4, A sub-commission to reconstruct the army medical department and other big things. From her bed she continued her work, directing many movements during the troubles in India although she did not leave England. She was also instrumental in starting a movement for rural hygiene. She wrote a few books, and many reports and papers. The best known of these is "Notes on Nursing." In 1907 King Edward offered her the Order of Merit. In August, 1910, she closed her career at the advanced age of 90. She was buried in Hampshire with her people, though before her death she was offered the privilege of resting in Westminster Abbey. She preferred to be with father and mother in the beautiful country where she had spent her childhood. One closes the book feeling that it is good to have known, even remotely, this woman who dedicated her life to a great cause, and won immortality through her service to mankind. Questions and Problems 1. What is the evidence that Mrs. Gaskell was right in her statement regarding Miss Nightingale? 2. Read the "Charge of the Light Brigade." 3. Why might it be said to be a questionable practice for a biographer to take a proposition to prove in the biography? 4. Has Mrs. Andrews, in a book like The Lost Commander, any good right to criticize Strachey so severely for being dishonest? 5. In what way did the work of Miss Nightingale differ from the work of the Relief Society? 6. Some one might describe a first-class modern hospital and point out differences between it and earlier ones, or even home nursing methods. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) THE FIELD OF SOCIAL WORK Lesson 2. Poverty and Dependency A. The Extent and Causes of Poverty It is important to distinguish between poverty and destitution. Destitution is a state of absolute and utter want; poverty 678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is merely a relative scarcity of the means of subsistence. Poverty, therefore, is much more frequent than destitution. Because communities do not keep accurate statistics and there is no way of comparing one community with another, the amount of destitution and poverty in any country at a given time is almost impossible to determine. Political economists, at different times, have estimated the number of people in a state of poverty. Their estimates range all the way from one to ten per cent of the population, with five per cent as the median. This would mean that at any one time about five per cent of the entire population are receiving some sort of public or private assistance. There is no common agreement, either, as to the specific causes of poverty. The most reliable opinion on the subject holds that poverty, like disease and crime, is a uniform consequent of many different antecedents. That is to say, poverty is a symptom of social disease, just as a high temperature is a symptom of physical disease; and many totally different factors can produce it. Jamison B. Hurry, formerly Medical Officer at University College, Reading, England, has called our attention to the "vicious circle" characteristics of poverty: "In the ordinary course of economic law, the reaction provoked by a social disorder tends to arrest such disorder. For example, idleness is checked by indigence, crime by social ostracism, alcoholism by dyspepsia, insanitation by ill-health. By this natural process the social organism maintains itself in health. Where a Vicious Circle is present, the ordinary sequence is modified. The reactions which should be beneficent are maleficent and intensify the disorder. Poverty, one of the most important of social evils, is to some extent subject to the usual economic law, since it has sequela which render it disagreeable and therefore to be avoided. Unfortunately, however, there are other potent factors which aggravate in lieu of arresting the primary disorder, and cause poverty to become self-perpetuating. As Solomon pointed out many centuries ago: "The destruction of the poor is their poverty.' "' Typical examples of this "vicious circle" relationship are the following: Poverty?improper housing?ill health?unemployment?poverty. Poverty?improper food?malnutrition?low wages?poverty. Poverty?ignorance?inefficiency?poverty. Poverty?alcoholism?unemployment?poverty. Poverty?improvidence?borrowing?poverty. In a word, we may say that the causes of poverty are any and all circumstances that operate to deprive a person or a family of the necessaries for subsistence and efficiency. Chief among these, GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 679 are ill health, low mentality, unemployment, indolence, limited education, low wages, improvidence, physical and mental handicaps. B. The Care of Dependent Adults The oldest institution in English-speaking countries for the care of the pauper is the almshouse, or, as it is sometimes called, the "poor house" (in England it is still called the workhouse). This institution became firmly established under Queen Elizabeth, in the seventeenth century. Our Puritan and Pilgrim ancestors continued the pattern in this country, with the result that every American county either has an almshouse or makes an arrangement with a neighboring county to care for its indigent old men and old women. Originally, the almshouse was a ''catch-all'" for indigents of all sorts,?the insane, the unemployed, dependent children, the crippled, the blind. One by one these latter groups have been taken out of the almshouse, to be cared for in other ways, leaving only the homeless, indigent adult. Almshouses have little to commend them. They carry with them an unfortunate stigma which the inmates always resent. ?Over the hill to the poor house" is a phrase that suggests the nature of public opinion on the subject. The food, the lack of stimulating occupation, and the isolation from free society, are among the common objections to the place. In order to avoid the stigma of the "poor" house and at the same time to secure the advantages of congregate living, many religious groups?for example the Jews, the Lutherans, the Baptists,?provide homes for the aged of their own denomination. The stigma has been further removed from these institutions by requiring inmates to pay a small amount per month or at the time of admission, towards their upkeep. This plan of caring for helpless, indigent, old people has much to commend it. Institutional care for indigent adults becomes necessary only when such persons lack savings, a private income, or children who will care for them. In order to stem the tide of pauperism and to enable the aged to live in self-respect outside of the "poor" house, most modern states and nations have considered?and some have adopted?the old-age pension. Kelso, in The Science of Public Welfare, says: "All the important nations of Europe have legislated upon the subject of old age pensions. These with Australia, New Zealand in the East, and Argentina in the South, together with Canada, Alaska, and five of the United States, make up a grand total of thirty-one jurisdictions recognizing some form of old-age pension. Seven countries which have non-contributory pensions are mostly English speaking. They comprise a total population approximating 70,000,000. Fifteen nations require some form of contribution by the pensioner. These have a population totaling some 240,000,000." 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Old-age pensions have not been popular in the United States. Arizona, in 1914, passed the first pension act and abolished the almshouse system. Unfortunately, the law was declared unconstitutional. Since that time Alaska, Nevada, Montana, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Utah, and a few other states have adopted old-age pension laws of one sort or another. At best, these laws are inadequate because the pension is too small and the age limit? usually sixty-five or seventy?is too high. As Kelso further says, "While the public is willing to succor the helpless out of sympathy as a private charity, they are not yet ready to pay out their subsistence to the improvident and other of the fraternity of the necessitous under some reasoned claim of right. It doesn't go down with the individualistic American people. Meantime the problem should be recognized for just what it is?the riddle of the empty stomach. Experience of decades, yes centuries, with the public poor shows beyond question that the only way to relieve indigence adequately from the point of view of the dependent, and safely from the point of view of society, is through friendly personal case-work, wielding a sympathy tempered always by justice." C. Care of Dependent Families Supplementing the almshouse?the system of "indoor" relief ?is the plan of money doles, supplies of food, clothing, coal, etc., called "'outdoor" relief. Monies for this service are, of course, secured through taxation. This system is objectionable because it permits of so much abuse, graft, and patronage. Yet it is far more economical when well administered than the almshouse system used exclusively. If careful case-work investigation is made of applications for relief, "outdoor" relief has much to commend it. The backbone of most private philanthropic work is what is called family welfare work, such as is administered by the Charity Organization Societies, Family Service Societies, Relief Societies, United Charities, etc., throughout the United States. Family welfare work is becoming less and less a matter of furnishing relief in money or in "kind" and more and more a matter of rehabilitation. It is in connection with this type of social work that the art of case-work is seen at its best. Private philanthropic societies are not restricted by law as to the kind and amount of help that might be given to their clients. In many of these societies an adequate budget is allowed for the families under care. In some societies, notably the Jewish, this service has even taken the form of setting up a tradesman or an artisan in a small business. D. The Care of Dependent Children Up until the beginning of this century the orphanage was the main institution for the care of dependent children in Anglo-American, GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 68! communities, In 1909, however, President Roosevelt called the famous White House Conference to consider the general problems of child welfare in America. At this time the consensus of opinion was decidedly against the orphanage as a place for dependent and delinquent children, The general principles concerning which there was substantial agreement among social workers at that time are the following: 1. Preservation of home ties wherever possible. '2. The paramount importance of preventive work. 3. The superiority of the foster home as a substitute for the natural home. - The adoption of the cottage plan for institutions, 5. The incorporation of child-caring agencies, 6. State inspection of the work of child-caring agencies. 7. 'Education in institutions as part of the public educational 8. The keeping of adequate records, 9. Physical care. 10. Co-operation among child-caring agencies, The beginning of the twentieth century saw also the introduction of the juvenile court movement in the United States-a movement that has spread to every state in the Union and to most civilized countries throughout the world The purpose and basic principle of the juvenile court is well stated in "A Standard Juvenile Court Law" published by the National Probation Association, 1928. "The purpose of this act is to secure for each child under its jurisdiction such care, guidance, and control, preferably in his own home, as will conduce to the child's welfare and the best interests of the state; and when such child is removed from his own family, to secure for him custody, care, and discipline as nearly as possible equivalent to that which should have ?been given by his parents," court. There the child is detained only until approved private boarding-homes can be found. The child is made a public ward, the State Board of Control becoming his legal guardian. On an average children remain only a few months. They receive good medical care and appropriate training in the common branches, manual training, and domestic science. Another type of public child-saving activity is the boarding and placing-out System, as it is conducted in Massachusetts, New 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Jersey, Indiana. The Massachusetts Department of Public Welfare has extensive powers and duties in the care and custody of delinquent and dependent children. The system for dependent children is essentially one of supervision in approved boarding-homes. Another type of social work for dependent children is sometimes called the "mother's pension." This plan of allowing a widow with dependent children a sum of money each month in order that she might remain at home to look after her children, began in Illinois and Missouri in 1911. At the present time forty-two states and the District of Columbia have enacted mother's pension laws, or "aid to mothers" laws. A unique feature of this system of public care for dependent children is the fact that in about half the states the responsibility for administering these laws has been placed upon the local juvenile courts. This has had the advantage, in many places, at least, of minimizing the abuses that often accompany any system of outdoor relief. Questions for the Further Stimulation of Thought 1. How much destitution is there in your community? 2. How would you find out how much poverty exists in your community? 3. Is there an almshouse in your county? If so, what is the age, sex, nationality, religion, physical and mental health of its population? Is the food, clothing, recreation, medical attention, adequate? Have you ever visited this institution? If not, why not: 4. If there is no almshouse in your county, what arrangements do your County Commissioners make for the care of indigent adults? 5. Are there any private homes for the aged in your community? If so, under what auspices are they managed? What are the requirements for admission? 6. What are the arguments for and against old-age pensions? Is there an old-age pension in your state? What are its provisions? 7. What are the essential characteristics of case-work with dependent families? Do dependent families in your community get this sort of service? 8. What are the arguments for and against the orphanage? Why did the American Legion, following a careful study of the situation, decide recently to use the system of child-placing instead of institutions for the care of war veterans' dependents? 9. Is juvenile court work in your community administered according to the White House standards of 1909? 10. How much is spent on mother's pensions in your county? What is the average amount allotted to each widow? Are careful investigations made before pensions are granted? We all want to make more money? but when do we start? Better job?but when do we start? No one ever yet secured a worthwhile position without preparing for it?and nobody ever will. The way to earn training course in this school will increase your market value. Qualities? Pt L. D. S. Business College. U. S. Business College Machine Calculation || NAME -- ADDRESS Iron Economy Why buy unknown brands of sub-standard Irons when you can get a fully guaranteed HOTPOINT 6 LBS. HOUSEHOLD SIZE IRON FOR AS LITTLE AS More Value per Dollar; longer, better and more dependable Service. Our Guarantee back of every Iron we sell. Call in or phone us your order. Modern Electric Company Was. 2307 128 South State Electrical Gifts are appreciated for the continued service they Give. Gratitude Day by day more Food Buyers are patronizing our stores, showing their gratitude for having in their community, a fine, clean O. P. Skaggs System store where the highest quality merchandise can be bought at economy prices. O.P. SKAGGS. Efficient-Service System When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine COURSES: * Shorthand o, e Speedwriting; Bookkeeping Of course we all expect to get a promotion soon, or a We can think of lots of ways to use more money, and sometime we expect to have it. But when do we start? More money is to make yourself worth more. A business It takes backbone and the power of decision to start training. But what goal was ever achieved without these Your name on this ad will bring you complete details. Why not make a start by sending it in today? No obligation. "YOU CAN'T GO WRONG" THAT'S WHY WE SAY 'Buy Blue Pine Food Products'"' and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money. Scowcroft's BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS The Western Farmer and His Home The West holds the reputation of having a showing in rural electrification that is the envy of eastern states. That means that in these rural homes the same comforts and conveniences may be enjoyed as in the larger towns and cities. Cooking, Refrigeration, Electric Water Heating, Washing, Ironing, and the ''thousand and one things' that women have to do in farm homes are now made pleasant incidents of the day where electricity does all your hard jobs. The farmer and his men now may do electrically, and all in shorter hours, the hard work of the farm that used to make it the hardest kind of labor. Our New Combination Rates Make it more profitable than ever to make a generous use of electrical appliances to take away the drudgery and make life happier for man and woman?who always want to do things they haven't time for or are too tired after a day's work if they cling to old fashioned methods. Call our nearest office and a representative will be pleased to call on you to discuss electrification as it pertains to your home or farm?there will be no obligation whatever on your part. Seven Times Champion of the World. Sent to you on Free Trial. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN World AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Sent to you Prompt and Careful Attention To on Free Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Trial Orders. Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M. Ai General Board Relief Society and 39 Bishop's Building 177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City Complete Printing and Binding Service OFFICE and bank forms Ruling and book binding SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS. We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.? Write us about them. The Deseret News Press When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Utah Power & Light Co. Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 29 Richards Street Phone Wasatch 3286 Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City Relief Society Women--- Attention | After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department. The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people. The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys. We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine WASATCH 1300 | RELIEF SOCTIETY ? ARE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS WELCOME? Relief SocietyJust what their visits would mean to your family should the husband and father be taken from you or be totally disabled? Life Insurance protection relieves the Relief Society of their greatest task?-The Financing of the Widow's Family. Don't Shirk Meeting This Issue FACE to FACE Put your house in order by procuring sufficient Life Insurance to carry on in case you are unable to carry on. Beneficial Insurance For The Entire Family (Age 1 Day to 65 Years) Insurance is one of the highest type investments if you live or if you die or are disabled. The Big Home Company Gives You Participating Insurance At Low Non Participating Rates All Beneficial Policyholders share in the net earnings Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home Office, Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Any Beneficial Representative Will Give You Full Details When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Heber J. Grant, Pres. E. T. Ralphs, Gen. Mgr.