
CONTENTS
Here is the corrected OCR transcription in a vertical list format:

The Fountain of the Virgin, in Nazareth Frontispiece
My Ideal Mrs. Elsie Parton 175
The Letter and the Spirit Elder Orson F. Whitney 176
Le Printemps Brooks Kjartan 180
What it Means to Understand Religion A. C. Lambert 181
Editorial—The First Editor 183
The Seventieth Birthday of President Clarissa S. Williams 184
Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Honored 184
The Centenary of the Organization of the Church 185
Retrospect Lula Greene Richards 186
The Ugly Duckling Estelle Webb Thomas 187
Easter Thoughts Elsie E. Barrett 191
Elvira Lathrop Fay Ollerton 192
Pioneers Lois V. Hales 204
Books 206
Notes from the Field 210
Guide Lessons for June 214
Christie Lund 229
Susan T. Jennings 230
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123

VOL. XVI APRIL, 1929 No. 4
VOL. XVI APRIL, 1929 NO. 4
THE FOUNTAIN OF THE VIRGIN, IN NAZARETH
THE Relief Society Magazine
VOL. XVI APRIL, 1929 No. 4
My Ideal Third Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest By Mrs. Elsie Parton, New South Wales, Australia
No canyon grand or mountain peak, Bright flow'ry dell, or willowed creek, No eerie scene where fairies bathe 'Neath mossy banks in forest glade Holds my ideal.
It is not held in silver note Of music sweet, from singer's throat. Nor setting sun, whose crimson hue Dyes like blood the western blue, Holds my ideal.
But wrinkled cheek, once bright and red, Now pale and worn, its bloom long fled, Dear toil-worn hands, once smooth and white. That always guided me aright— Holds my ideal.
Battered with time and years of care, With faltering step and silver hair; Deep-furrowed brow o'er eyes that shine With tender love as they meet mine— Holds my ideal.
Earth's greatest heroes pass away; Kingdoms vanish in a day; But high where nothing can compare My mother stands exalted there, As my ideal.
The Letter and the Spirit By Elder Orson F. Whitney, of the Council of the Twelve
"The letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life."—I Cor. 3:6.
How prone we are, when studying the Scriptures or other sacred teachings, to tie ourselves down to the letter of what has been written or spoken, regarding too little the Spirit that indited it and is alone capable of interpreting or making it plain.
"Eye hath not seen, ear hath not heard," says Paul—referring of course to the natural eye, the natural ear, and the inability of such organs to see or hear heavenly things. "But," adds the Apostle, "God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit; the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God."
As an example of the letter requiring interpretation by the Spirit, let us first consider this passage from Genesis: "So God created man in his own image; in the image of God created He him; male and female created He them." (Gen. 1:27.)
To the casual reader this might imply that God is both male and female—a bi-sexual being. But we know better, having been correctly taught. We know that God is "an exalted Man" who "sits enthroned in yonder heavens." (I quote from the Prophet Joseph Smith.) The male, not the female of the human species, is in the image or likeness of the Eternal Father. But,
"In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare. Truth is reason—truth eternal Tells me I've a Mother there."
So says the poet-prophetess, Eliza R. Snow, in her immortal invocation to the Eternal Father and Mother. What is that glorious hymn but an example of the Spirit interpreting the Letter?—the Spirit of Truth—the "secret something" that whispered to her of her heavenly origin. It was in the image or likeness of the Eternal Mother that woman was created. The Creator was speaking of man in the generic sense—mankind—when He said, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." "The man is not without the woman, nor the woman without the man, in the Lord." Wedded, they are as one; the two together constituting the unit of the race.
A too rigid adherence to the letter of the Mosaic Law, and a bigoted contempt for the Gospel or Higher Law, caused the Pharisees and Sadducees to reject the Messiah. They professed to revere Moses and the Prophets, but being without the Spirit that illumines and gives life to the letter, they failed to see clearly the meaning of the Mosaic Code and the Book of Prophecy. For instance, they thought it a sin to do any work on the Sabbath day, and found fault with the Savior for healing the sick on that day. "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath," He told them, and further confounded and angered them by declaring: "It is lawful to do good on the Sabbath day,"—meaning, of course, if necessary, as when food is prepared "in singleness of heart," to sustain the body while keeping the Sabbath or otherwise worshiping the Lord. To paraphrase His own illustration: If an ox has fallen into the ditch and needs instant help, it is lawful to extend that help, even though it be on the Sabbath day.
These and like teachings, reflecting the highest wisdom and the soundest common sense, sealed the doom of the sinless Son of God. His enemies invoked the letter of the law against the One who had given that law ages before, and because He, by the Spirit, now taught a higher law—the time being ripe for it—He was condemned and crucified.
Next, let us take the case of the Christian Church in the early centuries after the age of the Apostles, when uninspired teachers, aiming to interpret the letter without the Spirit, led the flock astray. Among other things, they misinterpreted the Eucharist or Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. "Eat—this is my body." "Drink—this is my blood." So the Savior is represented as saying of the bread and wine blessed by Him and given to his Apostles on the night before his crucifixion. But is it a true translation? When Jesus introduced the same ordinance among the Nephites He was more explicit, saying "This shall ye do in remembrance of my body" and "in remembrance of my blood which I have shed for you." (Book of Mormon—3 Nephi 18:7-11.) A clearer idea of the Sacrament and its purpose is thus given.
But suppose He did say to the Apostles: "This is my body and my blood"? The Spirit that was in them made plain the Master's meaning. He could not have meant that the bread was indeed his body, or the wine his blood; for his body was then intact, unbroken—He was speaking to them out of it. And his blood was in his veins, yet unspilt. His true disciples, in all ages, when partaking of the Sacrament worthily, receive of his Spirit, which is the food of their spirits, the power by which they grow and become strong. But they do not chew his flesh nor drink his blood. If He really said, "This is my body,—this is my blood," it was only a short way of saying what He intended. He was not speaking literally; He was using a metaphor, an implied comparison, a common custom with Orientals. But after the Apostles had departed, and uninspired leaders arose, the opposite or literal view was taken, and by their faulty interpretation millions of souls have been misled. We can and should respect their sincerity, but we cannot accept or approve their doctrine. It is always right to be sincere, but sincerity is not always right.
Another case in point. John the Apostle wrote, or is supposed to have written: "No man hath seen God at any time." (John 1:18.) How are we to understand that, granting it to be a correct translation?—for we are under no obligation to believe even the Bible except in-so-far as it has been translated correctly. Did not Adam see God? Did not Enoch walk with God? Did not Jehovah appear to Abraham? Did not Moses, Aaron, Nadab and Abihu and seventy of the Elders of Israel go up into the mountain and see the God of Israel? The Bible says so, and modern revelation confirms it. Did not the Apostles see Jesus Christ, in whom "dwelt the fulness of the Godhead bodily?" Was He not "the Word that was God" and was "made flesh" and dwelt among them, that they might see Him? John himself declares it (John 1:1, 14); and yet is made to say, in the very same connection, "No man hath seen God at any time." What then? Shall we cling to the letter of that one statement, and ignore all that went before it, both history and doctrine? Why, it would tear out the foundations of the Christian religion. It would blot out all the Gospel dispensations and destroy every hope of salvation. No, let us put life into the dead letter, and make it read as it ought to read. And how ought it to read? Moses virtually decides the question in saying: "Now mine own eyes have beheld God; but not my natural, but my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld; for I should have withered and died in his presence; but his glory was upon me; and I beheld his face, for I was transfigured before him." (Pearl of Great Price—Moses 1:11.) Thus the wrinkle is smoothed out. "No man"—with his natural eyes—"hath seen God at any time." Or, as our own revered Prophet puts it: "No man hath seen God at any time in the flesh, except quickened by the Spirit of God" (Doc. And Cov. 67:11)—which means precisely the same thing.
In Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice" Shylock demands the literal fulfillment of the bond that Antonio has forfeited, and insists upon his "pound of flesh, to be by him cut off nearest the merchant's heart." Portia, pleading for Antonio, entreats the Jew to be merciful. "Upon what compulsion must I?" he asks. Then Portia:
"The quality of mercy is not strain'd: It droppeth, as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath; it is twice bless'd; It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes; 'Tis mightiest in the mightiest; it becomes The throned monarch better than his crown. His sceptre shows the force of temporal power, The attribute to awe and majesty, Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings; But mercy is above this sceptred sway, It is enthroned in the hearts of kings, It is an attribute to God himself; And earthly power doth then show likest God's When mercy seasons justice."
This plea, so sublime in letter and in spirit, having failed to melt the hard-hearted money-lender, Portia next reads into the bloodthirsty bond an interpretation so literal that it completely baffles the cruel and vindictive schemer, takes him in his own snare, and rescues the merchant from his peril. It was a triumph of letter over letter, one might say. But it was also a triumph of the Spirit.
There are times, however, when the Letter almost crowds the Spirit off the platform. Here is an instance. A pious father was taking to task his little son for uncharity; the boy having angrily expressed himself over some wrong, real or fancied, done him by another. "You shouldn't talk that way about your little playmate," said the father, "haven't you thought how you might heap coals of fire on his head?" "No," said the boy, "I hadn't thought of it, but it's a peach of an idea." The young Shylock!
Many things are implied that are not expressed; what is told being suggestive and inclusive of the untold. In the revelations of God given to the Church in these days, the chewing or smoking of tobacco is inhibited; but that does not leave morphine unbanned. The "dope fiend" is also a breaker of the Word of Wisdom. Again, the excessive or untimely use of "the fowls of the air" for food, is discountenanced; but the fowls of the barnyard, though unmentioned, are not omitted, but are included by implication. Gluttony is a vice, as well as drunkenness, no matter what the gourmand gorges himself upon. All excesses are hurtful to health, whether or not they be "nominated in the bond." All are infractions of divine law, the intent of which (as in human law) should always be weighed and considered—not the letter alone.
In "seeking for wisdom out of the best of books," as we have been commanded, we need the Holy Spirit as an interpreter, lest we blunder and go astray. The letter, alone, is an insufficient guide. Like "faith without works," it is "dead." But the Spirit cannot err. The letter, with the conflicting interpretations put upon it, is responsible for disputations and contentions, against which we are solemnly warned. By the letter we are divided. By the Spirit we see eye to eye, and are made acceptable to Him who has said: "Except ye are one, ye are not mine."
Le Printemps (The Springtime) By Brooks Kairn
I dipped with eager pen to write of spring Then thought me of the cynic's grating words, "How now, another poetaster bent On gushing of the bumble-bee and birds?"
"Write on!" a milder voice bade teasingly; "For poesy was born of such as this— Of stream and tree—the morning's early glow, Cold loam's awakening at Springtime's kiss.
Sing on with words to match the lark's clear note— In lines full patterned to the bluebird's wing, Imprison tulip's grace within your rhyme And joyfulness of warbler's caroling.
Weave deftly golden strands of prismic light In this, your tapestry. Let there be hint Of brooklet's dashing play on mossy rocks— The green of pristine leaf caught in Sol's glint.
Attune this theme you'd pen of brighter days To fragrance of the dew-pearled mountain flower, Blend carefully your verse to fleece-blown cloud Revealed in cameo on turquoise bower.
All these, and more. String then your modest lyre; Seek out the kindred pipes of elfin Pan; Send forth this gladsome melody of Spring— Rejoicing in a wise Creator's plan."
What it Means to Understand Religion By A. C. Lambert
"Until man becomes either a lotus-eater or a God he will believe and pray and worship. So long as man remains man, 'who partly is and wholly hopes to be,' he will be incurably religious." So long as men refuse to turn their backs on the great adventure of living; so long as men refuse to admit that fear cowardice, and self-seeking can permanently dominate personality; so long as men refuse to turn their faces from the search for good, which is found in the life of God revealed to men—just so long will religion remain. For religion is the way of spiritual self-fulfillment. It is the way in which men find the ultimate significance of life's practices and beliefs when life and the world are interpreted as a whole.
Though religion has been most variously defined, its continuing reality as a human experience and an integral part of human living must be recognized. Demonstration of the validity of the fact of religious experience comes through examination of the observable experiences and practices of human beings. Demonstration of the value of religious experiences is found in the feeling life of innumerable human beings. Demonstration of the ultimate truthfulness of religious doctrines and practices comes through (1) acceptance by individuals and groups of revelations from God, and pronouncements of those authorized to speak for God, (2) recognition of their consistency with other accepted truths empirically established, (3) recognition of their demonstrated power to reconstruct human lives and human institutions in directions universally recognized as "better" and good, and (4) their felt value to the individual. Any one of the four methods gains strength when supplemented by all the others.
The ultimate key to a real understanding of any religion is to feel it. That means more than to secure a knowledge of its doctrines, its theology, its ritual, its ethical and moral precepts, its ecclesiastical organization and machinery, its sacred shrines and its temples; for these, though inherently necessary, are but the body of the religion, and not its life-blood; its externals, not its reality. A religion to be understood and to be appreciated as a driving power to spiritual self-realization must, in some degree, be experienced.
Really to understand a religion one must put himself in the place of the believers and practicers of that religion. He must have been troubled as they have been troubled. He must have struggled for spiritual light and growth as they have struggled. He must have felt God's presence as they have felt it. He must have risen through belief from sin and despair as they have risen. He must have suffered as they have suffered. He must have conquered as they have conquered. Short of this, no one may adequately understand a religious system or a great religious life.
But with understanding can come appreciation of religion as a fundamental and natural expression of life. With understanding comes less bitterness in criticism of dogma and practice. With understanding comes more intelligent toleration and cooperation between individuals whose creed, ritual, and symbols take different forms.
Ultimately, truth is individual truth. Many truths of religion may be demonstrable truths; and in order to be universally or generally accepted, they must be such truths. Empirical method is one method of demonstrating truth, and it has proved its value and place as an instrument and a creation of human thought. But ultimately, truth in religion, like truth in knowledge, is felt truth. Truth and knowledge come to be demonstrated, accepted, and depended upon, by reason of the general and continuing uniformity in the way human beings think and feel about it. Let men not delude themselves in thinking that they think beyond thought.
It is, therefore, perhaps true that much of religion must remain sacredly intimate and individual. That fact need not weaken the fundamental significance of religion as a general human experience and a valuable possession for group preservation. Rather it should make men think more deeply on their own true selves, perchance to learn anew the worth of faith in human life, perchance to learn again that truth itself has many sides, that values have no meaning unless felt by human souls, and that striving after God brings light and life and hope, and in the end makes better men. In learning of all this, we come more adequately to understand religion.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - - - - - - - - ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Manager - - - - - - - - LOUISE Y. ROBISON Assistant Manager - - - - AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

EDITORIAL
The First Editor
On the 8th day of April, 1929, Lula Greene Richards will commemorate her 80th birthday. She was the first editor of the Woman's Exponent, and the Magazine rejoices to be able to congratulate her at this time. She began her editorial duties before her marriage and continued them for a short time afterwards. Ever since the day when she turned her work over to Emmeline B. Wells, her writings have appeared in Church magazines.
The ability to do things artistic may develop in children in different lines of art. This was true in the case of Robert Browning and his wife Elizabeth Barrett Browning who were poets; their son is a sculptor. Mrs. Richards has sons with literary ability, those who write both prose and poetry, but perhaps her best known son is Lee Greene, a well known painter, particularly of portraits.
We congratulate Mrs. Richards on the fact that her 80th year finds her in reasonably good health, with exceptional mental vigor for one of her advanced age; also with an amount of optimism that is truly refreshing. She has undoubtedly known trials. One of her refinement could not escape suffering yet she loves her fellow men, she loves her Father in Heaven, and in this age of skepticism when everything is being questioned, the Gospel lamp is the guide to her feet. She has joy in the testimony of the divinity of Christ and the sure knowledge of the Resurrection; as, to use her own words, "she draws nearer to the fullness of His peace."
The Seventieth Birthday of President Clarissa S. Williams
The Magazine rejoices to be able to congratulate President Clarissa Smith Williams on her seventieth birthday, which falls on the 21st day of April, 1929. On that day the hearts of thousands will turn towards her in appreciation of her kindly ministrations extending over a very active and useful life. In the minds of those who know her best, memories, sweet and precious will arise, evoking from the hearts of all her friends tenderness and love. They will wish that, as the days come and go, she may be a special charge of divine providence; that her health may be good, her happiness secure, and that, in the mercy of heaven, no good thing may be withheld from her. Showers, showers, of blessings we would call down upon her. We commend her at all times to the loving care of the Most High, who knows the righteousness of her heart and what a benediction her life has been to all among whom she has labored. May it be our Father's will to extend her life as long as she finds joy and satisfaction therein, with her children, her children's children, her many friends, and this good earth upon which her lot has been serenely cast.
Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Honored
The President's suite in the Hotel Utah was the scene of another festive occasion on Wednesday, February 20th, when a dinner was given to honor three Board Members, but particularly to take note of the services of Sister Jennie B. Knight, first counselor to President Clarissa Smith Williams during the period of her presidency and now a member of the General Board. The committee consisted of Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Mrs. Emma A. Empey and Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Corsage bouquets were placed at the covers of Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Miss Alice L. Reynolds, and Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, in recognition of the cordial welcome and hospitality extended to Board Members during the recent Leadership Week held at the Brigham Young University.
The dinner was arranged especially to give the Board Members an opportunity to express appreciation to Sister Knight. To this end, all the Board Members paid her tribute and were exceedingly happy for the opportunity. Some did it through the medium of stories which were part of Sister Knight's history, and some through tributes to her sterling qualities. The dinner was arranged by Mrs. Emma A. Empey and presided over by President Louise Y. Robison. It was an occasion of festive cheer and good will. Mrs. Knight was presented with a book in a beautiful leather cover resembling Roycroft work?a book that can be used by her for her notes when she goes out to conventions or on any occasion when she wishes to use it. The presentation speech was made by Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, who in fitting words expressed the appreciation of the Board to Sister Knight and their devotion to her.
The Centenary of the Organization of the Church
We are just one year from the centenary of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It will be the privilege of all organizations connected with the Church during the next year to demonstrate what the output of this great spiritual movement has been. This demonstration may be carried on in many ways. Art is one of the mediums of expression: it is possible to employ art in public addresses, poetry, essays, dramas, music, painting, sculpture, pageantry, as well as in exhibitions of scientific, industrial and economic achievements. This year may be one of assembling and of arranging many things, to the end that all shall be in readiness for the centenary in April, 1930. The Relief Society will have its place and in a variety of ways be able to demonstrate and review the story of its growth and achievements, establishing thereby its worth as a great welfare organization.
Editor's Note
Mrs. Julina Green is the author of the poem, "A Reverie" which was published in the March number of the Magazine. It is regretted that her name did not appear with the poem, as its author.
The Ugly Duckling By Estelle Webb Thomas
I
December 25?or 26?1 a. M.?Just slipped a bath-robe over my night gown to keep from freezing, and a cap over my marcell to keep from spoiling it (the things are expensive), and am sitting up in bed to write till I get sleepy, which time isn't far distant.
Quite an interesting Christmas day for a lone, lorn Ugly Duckling! After my light lunch, I put on my new tan suit, and made a few calls as per schedule. Had several invitations to stay with people, but declined them all as I want to rest and relax this holiday and not be obliged to wear my pleasant expression all the time?too much like school.
When I reached home in the early dusk, I found a funny old creature camped on the front step, who said that she had been over three times, and the last time "jest set down to wait till I did come!" She brought a little note from Mrs. Douglas, next door, saying that she was a good friend, though a recent one, of mother's; and as her son had told her that I was all alone in the house, she had taken the liberty of asking me to dine with them this evening.
Mrs. Douglas proved to be a delightful old lady and put me at my ease at once, especially as the son was not present at first. As she made no reference to our little escapade, I presumed he had not mentioned it. He came in from the street in a few minutes and greeted me pleasantly but formally as the old servant came in to announce dinner.
They are the sort of people who can be entertaining, and still make a guest feel interesting and at his best, too. When dinner was over, Mrs. Douglas begged to be excused, as she invariably retires immediately after dinner, and she "was sure Donovan would do his best to entertain me." I was surprised to see "Donovan" unconcernedly lift the old lady in his arms (I had noticed that she was very lame), and after asking me to excuse him for a moment, walk calmly and easily up the stairs with her.
He was back immediately and suggested that we "step out" as the evening was still young. So we saw "Charlie's Aunt," played by a bunch of High School kids in the H. S. Auditorium. Mr. Douglas suggested a dance afterward?there was one in progress at Daly's Movie Palace, but I felt he had sufficiently atoned for his last evening's faux pas and said I had rather go home. I preferred to walk too, for the night was clear and starry and beautifully white with snow.
Mr. Douglas hesitated after he had said "Good-night," and asked if I wouldn't let him start my fire before he left. I hadn't intended having a fire, but no one will ever know how relieved I was at having someone go in with me and turn on the lights. Goodness knows, I'm not a coward; but there's something about going into a dark, empty house?!
Well, the upshot of it was, that we passed a most interesting hour before the fire, with some of mother's fruit-cake, and my home-smoked cocoa for refreshment. When he finally left we had a good many side-lights on each other's history and felt quite like old friends.
December 27?Had lunch today with Sally Turner, who used to be the class ninny, but who now has me bested by the possession of a cute little house, a set of new furniture, and a husband. This latter appeared to be something she has picked up at a bargain sale?cheap; but she is satisfied, and fairly exuded pity at my unattached state. "You'll never know what happiness is, Daisy," she gushed, "till you have a loving husband and a dear little nest of your own."
I was trying to walk this off when I ran plump into Mr. Douglas, hurrying along with a pre-occupied frown on his brow and a suit-case in his hand. "Why the savage expression?" he asked by way of greeting, though I had not known I was showing my vexation so openly.
"Only an over-dose of the sunny side of life," I replied, trying to look more amiable than I felt.
"Come with me and I'll give you a view of the seamy side," said my new friend, taking my arm and turning me gently about as he spoke, "Only I'm late and in a powerful hurry, as Janet says; so if you don't mind we'll have a walking contest! That is," he added, "unless you have other plans."
I was curious about his "seamy side" of life until he explained that he is a doctor, newly arrived and trying to build up a practice by unfailing interest and promptness. As old Dr. Halley has no financial necessity for work and has become so cross and crotchety that people would almost rather die by themselves than disturb his nights, I foresee a successful future for young Dr. Douglas in our town and told him so. He seemed pleased and told me he had had a chance to take over his father's practice in a large Eastern town at the time of his recent death, but had decided to come west for the sake of his mother's failing health, and sincerely hoped he would be able to make a "go" of it.
The Doctor's mother came too, and while he attended the "flu" patients to whom he had been making daily visits for a week, though there was nothing in it for him but getting a practice established, his mother explained, she descanted on the perfections of her handsome son; much to his discomfiture, I could see, when he caught the drift of her confidences.
Running down presently on the subject of Donovan, she began to ask me a few polite questions. Mother and the professor called, and mother had been in a number of times; but they had been in town only two months, and knew so few people? She asked about my sisters, and my name. "Margaret!" she repeated, when I told her, "Why, that is the name of the girl Donovan is going to marry! Do you hear that, Don? You'll enjoy calling Miss Wallace Margaret, won't you, dear?"
I hastened to explain that I am always called Daisy; and Mr. Douglas remarked a trifle dryly that he had hardly got to the stage of calling me Margaret, yet. As most of his visits were to flu patients and the doctor advised us to stay in the open air, I learned something of Margaret, the fiancee. She was the daughter of an old and valued friend, and it had been the desire of Donovan's father's heart as well as of Margaret's father that the two should eventually marry. The engagement had made Donovan's father very happy, coming as it did during his last long illness, when he was worrying about Don's future, and when Margaret was so kind and attentive to the bed-fast old friend. Don had been inclined to be a trifle wild?not bad, of course?just gay and reckless; but his father's death had sobered him wonderfully and he had become as steady as his father himself. And as thoughtful of her.
I rather hoped the doctor would come in when he brought me home, but he very formally took his leave at the front door. Perhaps the thought of the absent fiancee is haunting him, and he feels he shouldn't be so nice to every Ugly Duckling he meets. I confess the absent Margaret rather spoiled the picture for me. And I'm going straight to sleep and not weave a single romance around a tall dark-eyed young doctor with an interesting name.
January 1?I threw the diary in a corner when I finished writing last time and only resurrected and dusted it off again tonight to finish recording this episode before going back to school tomorrow. The day after my last entry the doctor was called out of town, and didn't get back until last evening. I passed several very dull days calling and receiving callers, dining with friends and going to movies, and wishing heartily for the time to come when I must go back to work. Janet came over to ask me to dinner with Mrs. Douglas yesterday, and volunteered the information that the doctor is gone and his mother was lonely.
I was really relieved that the doctor was away. I had thought he was purposely avoiding me, and felt furiously angry at myself at snapping up so eagerly the little crumbs of companionship he had offered me, as if I never had had any attention before. But since he was gone I could go to dinner with his mother without any sacrifice of pride; so to please her I got myself up in my very best bib and tucker and went over early, resolved to be as amusing as possible and try to pay some of my debt of gratitude for their kindness.
But dinner was barely commenced when in walked Dr. Douglas! How dreadful I felt! The conceited thing had been so cool to me that last evening, and now to find me hanging around his mother, as if waiting meekly for him to return, was too provoking! I hurried home as soon as I decently could, but the doctor insisted on coming with me, and seemed rather offended when I refused to let him come in and make a fire. I told him I was leaving on the six-thirty train, and intended going straight to bed, and really enjoyed his unmistakable look of disappointment. So that's the last of Dr. Donovan Douglas, so far as I am concerned, and after tomorrow my contacts will be with the Primary Department of the Green Valley school and Mr. Dixon, principal of same. January 5?Mrs. Lowell's Up-Stairs Left-Hand* Bedroom.? Well, back again, ready to deal out knowledge in large doses to my young hopefuls. Arrived cold and weary last evening at nine o'clock in a veritable blizzard. Quite a price to pay for the privilege of spending Christmas all by myself in a deserted house! But that is unkind. The Douglases made it as pleasant as possible, and contrary to my last statement in my diary, I hadn't seen the last of Dr. Douglas, on New Year's night. When I came down the steps in the dim, gray early morning there stood the Doctor's car with the Doctor in it, waiting to drive me to the station. I felt an over-whelming sense of obligation and tried to tell him so, but he only smiled and replied with a look in his handsome brown eyes that made me turn my own away, that perhaps I could return the favor sometime. There was no time for conversation for we were barely in time, but as Dr. Douglas hurried me into the car and my suit-case after me, he asked if he might write. So there's that to look forward to when the children get too dumb, and life looks too drab. January 8?One week of the second semester gone. The children were little fiends after their week of merry-making, late hours, and too much candy. I should have sent the whole roomful in to Mr. Dixon en masse, I was so provoked one afternoon, if he had not looked so harassed with his own set of young ideas. I have been so busy with my own private problems that Mr. Dixon had failed to make much impression on me before; but today I got to wondering what his story is?perhaps something THE UGLY DUCKLING 191 interesting enough for one of my romances, For that's my secret ambition. I'm trying to write?and making a sad failure so far. I believe I might be able to accomplish something at it if my time were my own, but if I get out of bed just teeming with bright ideas the school-bell is sure to ting disgustingly early; and by the time I am free again, every bit of inspiration has fled. Then if I plan a quiet evening at my scribbling, Mrs. Lowell is sure to get up some sort of "Do," and insist on "teacher" coming clown to be the life of the party. But I am not going to give up till I find, like Joe, whether "genius burns" or not. Still, if I devote all my spare time to this Journal, what is to become of my "literary career?" Haven't heard from "anybody" at home, but had a letter from mother saying that Lisbeth is much better, and she and the professor will be home in another week. Easter Thoughts Elsie E. Barrett Glad Easter Morn'. Break forth in song! Sing praises to your King! The clouds of doubt have rolled away, And death has lost its sting. How soul-inspiring just to think That Jesus died for me; So wonderful to have the thought That He'll provide for me; That He has risen from the tomb For such as I?robbed death of gloom. O Jesus, help my faith to grow, Help me to feel my debt; Though I can never, never pay, Help me, lest I forget. Elvira Lathrop By Fay Ollerton Elvira Lathrop did not go back to the store that afternoon before Thanksgiving. She hurried back and forth in her adobe house with its lean-to, getting the rooms cleaned in preparation for her absence tomorrow. Alone she still had the stooped gait of a woman whose head had first leaned forward in expectancy, then drooped with resentment, and later grown careless. She was a spinster in a town of almost unanimously married women, and she had grown to show a surface acceptance in her kindly timid eyes of being the butt of Red Water's jokes on feminism. The Co-op's superintendent, Hans Nielson, knew that the next day was the yearly gathering of the Lathrop clan, and that Elvira would value the extra time. He could, she realized, be generous when it did not inconvenience him, and there would be few customers that afternoon; they would be home cleaning turkeys and chickens, baking pumpkin pies, and dusting rooms only opened for great occasions. "I feel like maybe you would want this afternoon to make a potato cake," he teased, showing his yellow teeth. She nodded back, pleased in spite of her dislike for the sleek little superintendent. She did not like his patronizing smile; every time he spoke she felt more poignantly than ever her thin spinsterhood, now growing into its forties; and her fight to retain her self-expression in the little sage-brush town with its red streets and its open contempt for any unwanted woman. Yet, she was flattered about the potato cake. His mention showed that the town recognized her supremacy in one line usually dedicated to wearers of the ring. Every person must have some reason for existing, outside of the mere routine of eating and sleeping, something no matter how small that he feels he can do better than his fellows, that he can use as a barricade against the forces that would level him with the rest of his creatures. Potato cake was Elvira's weapon in Red Water's battle. No wedding supper, no pioneer day celebration, canyon outing, or woodhauler's banquet was complete without this cake. Not another woman in town could compete in the rich, moist brownness and delectable flavor of her masterpiece. Husbands invariably called for more. Often they turned to their wives with: ?Why can't you make cake like this? I wish you'd get Elviry's receipt." And their failure to get the recipe was in no way due to their lack of zeal. They had tried, after Elvira had first produced her ELVIRA LATHROP 193 triumph, but ineffectually. All she told them was that a friend of hers in Salt Lake had obtained the recipe from an English aunt. The shy woman had found the sweet pleasure of excelling and she guarded her secret well. If Red Water's housekeepers had been more in touch with the world that lay beyond their sagebrush trails and low, red hills; if they had subscribed for women's magazines now becoming practical, or even bought cook books, they might have found a potato cake recipe similar to Elvira's, but they went on handing down cooking rules from mother to daughter, and exchanging methods over back fences and at Relief Society quilting bees. Some of the wives, spurred on by their husbands, had taken recourse to experimentation; their delvings into the realms of science were sorry failures. Because their "menfolks" liked the cake, they called for it on every occasion, and Elvira would come home, her tight little heart that was carefully schooled against emotion, warmed and expanded. At such times she would chat brightly with her taciturn brother, Ward, who was a bachelor. "You ought to have been there, Ward," she would say to the tall, spare man sitting in front of the box stove with his stockinged feet resting on the red checkered tablecloth; "they had some right nice speeches and music, and the supper was real good." Ward would lift his somber eyes from the. Semi-weekly he was all week reading to say in his halting voice: "I'm glad, Elviry, that you enjoyed it," and relapse into silence again; but he knew that someone had been exuberant in his praise of the cake. It meant a great deal to his sister, this family reunion. Some twenty years ago Elvira's skin had been smooth and clear and faintly touched with pink; her light brown hair had curled over her high forehead instead of being drawn back in its tight grayness, and she had been in love with Eric Kelner, now married to her cousin, Delia Lathrop. There had been no formal announcement; that was not Red Water's custom even now in the beginning of the second decade, but the town had known there was something serious between the two. Had he not taken Elvira to Sunday night Mutuals for two years past, ever since she had returned from the Academy at Provo, to care for her declining mother? And had he not been seen walking home from Lathrop's on wintry days with books that Elvira had loaned him? Summer evenings, too, when the fragrance of freshly cut alfalfa and garden flowers vied with the sage and rabbit brush for supremacy in the breezes, they had gone buggy riding in the weedy and brush-lined streets towards the meadows on the south, or to the East canyon. And Elvira, who had been working in the Co-op store for a year, was known to be putting away material for sheets and tablecloths. This last alone would have been proot sufficient for any 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fown; and in Red Water no one left his back door ajar but the neighbors knew the reason. Girl, and at the height of her timid rage, Elvira had left the dance hall afone, and her lover in willing hands. Later she blamed Delia entirely. How could gentle, awkward Eric, who had lived more fact! And in her stupid pride, Elvira had continued to leave Not knowing how to forget, or to substitute, which is much the same thing, Elvira had grown thin, gaunt-eyed, and more retiring. She was already looking old when next spring Eric returned of giving a linen tablecloth to a mere cousin. As time passed, it pained her to see that Eric no longer had time to read, or to ELVIRA LATHROP 195 think of the school plans they had talked about. He was a busy man now, working his small farm, doing odd jobs of hauling freight and loaning out himself and team to keep Delia supplied with the silk dresses she demanded; her pantry piled with materials for her bounteous table, and later providing for the regularly increasing Kelnars. It did not heal Elvira's wound any to see the ample Delia each year becoming more sharp tongued. She felt too keenly for Eric, unnecessarily stooped and worried looking, and she was growing thinner and worn herself. Yet there were times when she could do something for her old lover and she eagerly anticipated these occasions. There was the annual birthday party for Aunt Sarah, now grown feeble, the Lathrop weddings, the holidays with their interchange of family dinners, and the Thanksgiving reunions, where Eric always sought her for a few minutes of desultory talk, and ate prodigiously of her potato cake. "No one," he often said, "can make such good cakes as you. Elvira. I just wait for these dinners to come," and turning from the glowing spinster to his wife, "Delia is a good cook, but her cakes can't come up to these." Elvira cherished these compliments, even though she knew they were his futile attempts to cover old sorrow, and enjoyed Delia's retort that, "she'd get that receipt or bust." The secret was too much a part of the spinster's self ever to be disclosed now. The coming family reunion was the one oasis in an otherwise arid and disappointing year. Ward, a few years her senior, had been more crippled with rheumatism than was his wont, and had had a hard time harvesting his small crops and hauling in the winter wood from the cedar and pine-covered hills. Wool had shot down in price, until their tiny income from it would not pay for the magazines Elvira subscribed for. The brother was growing more dependent upon her: he had few pleasures, and it had been years since he had mingled in the town activities other than to attend Sacrament and Priesthood meetings. To make matters worse, Elvira was having trouble with her left leg. "You're on it too much. You ought just to sit down and do nothing else for months," old Dr. Dunn had told her. "If you aren't careful, you'll have some serious trouble soon." She knew, too, that Hans had seen her slight limp, and was only waiting for some slacking in her work to take on a younger, prettier girl. "You're not so spry as you used to be, Elviry," he had said only a few days ago. She knew he had in mind his wife's sister, a strong young thing, and pretty in a blousy, coarse way, and who wanted a chance to clerk; but he would not dare to discharge the older woman without some serious reason. The Lathrops were 196 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE too strong in the community; though they were letting their stock in the co-operative store slip to enter other ventures. Frightened, Elvira had worked when she should have been home asleep. She wondered now as she scurried around in her low-raftered, whitewashed kitchen and gathered her cake materials about her, if Hans had given her the free half-day so: that he could report her inability to work full time. Orderly as always, Elvira placed the ingredients in exact amounts on her brown oilcloth tablecover, and started creaming the butter and sugar. She had no more than begun her strokes when a rap sounded on the kitchen door. Because her hands were dusted with flour, she called, "Come in." Panting and robust, Delia Kelner stood in the doorway, an old brown coat thrown hurriedly over her pink gingham dress. "Hello, Elviry," she called, loudly excited. "I saw your smoke and knew you was home, because Ward is in the cattle pasture. I been waiting to tell you the news!" "What news?' Elvira paused in her creaming. She knew Delia's ways. She was more worried how she could get rid of her cousin, or take her into the front room. The potato cake was too much in evidence. "What news is right, Elviry," the cousin declared, not a whit dampened by the response. She seemed all the more pleased for a chance to extend her climax. She opened her eyes in an attempt to be mysterious, and sat down uninvited in Ward's congress chair. Elvira waited, her hands fluttering helplessly about her work. As if she would burst if she contained her story longer, Delia leaned forward and said in a stage whisper, "Esther's home again, and she ain't alone! She's got a fourth husband, and they say," here the informant lowered her voice, screwed her eyes, into a semi-closing, "they say she's going to bring him to the reunion tomorrow!" She was not disappointed in her climax. Elvira dropped her cake spoon, her eyes and mouth opened wide, and had to catch her gold-rimmed spectacles with trembling hands. "Great Scotland!" was all she could say at first. The spinster was not given to expletives. Esther was a second cousin by marriage, the result of a Lathrop's mesalliance; she was the one unfettered spirit in a long line of staid, emotion bound, and duty thinking citizens that made up the family of Lathrop. Her first husband had died, and six months after his funeral, she had married a young Lathrop who was in the early stages of rebellion against the conventions of his family. But, true to his heritage, he found life with the irrepressible Esther unbearable, and quietly divorced her after two years of misery. Not daunted in any way, Esther had married ELVIRA LATHROP 197 again; this time she did the divorcing herself, and in a day and town where a woman divorced once had as well wear a scarlet letter. Unable at last, to stand the town's and the Lathrop's steady rebuffs, she had gone to a coast city. The mention of her name was always a flagrant signal in Red Water, and her return with a fourth would not diminish the gossip. "When did she come?" the now thoroughly alert Elvira demanded of the righteous Delia.; Delia removed her coat, preparatory to a lengthy stay. ?Why, she come on the stage last night," she began in her high, discordant voice, her deep flesh glowing; while Elvira, all caution forgotten, went on with her creaming, a high spot of color in her sunken cheeks. It had been a long time since she had had a chance to forget herself in a choice bit of gossip. "Eric was up at the post office this morning, and they come right in for their mail. She was just as brazen as anything, introducing him right and left to her 'old friends.' Cousin Tom's wife was there too, and Eric had only started telling me, when she run in with more news. She said that Esther was bragging she'd walk into the Lathrop reunion and give 'em the surprise of their lives." Delia folded her lips into a pudgily tight line. She was the essence of satisfied virtue. By the time she was through with all that she had heard and surmised, the cakes were in the oven and the fire adjusted to their needs. She arose still bristling with importance. I got to be getting on. Old lady Henry's bedridden this week, and ~ I know she'd like to hear about Esther, and then I've got to get home and get supper for Eric and the rest of the family. He's been hauling hay to the cattle pens all day and he'll be hungrier than the threshers." She took up her coat, this time taking care to run her arms through the sleeves. The short November day was fading into a gray evening and the air was chilly. "I?ll be seeing you at the Relief Hall when the women folks bring over their vittles," she called good-naturedly from the back stoop, and energetically waddled around the graveled path to the unpaved sidewalk, Elvira watched her from the front window, puzzled to see the cousin turning towards home instead of Mrs. Henry's. "I expect she's decided to let the old lady wait," she thought, letting her eyes rest on the dried branches of the still trees. She felt quite kindly towards Delia. Outwardly they had kept up appearances, true to Lathrop traditions, but the old rancor had kept them from becoming intimate in spite of their living but two blocks apart. Later, when the first glow of the gossip had worn off, and she sat in the darkening twilight with the singing kettle, waiting for Ward to return, she wondered if Esther's sudden appearance would detract from the coming of her favorite cousin, John Lathrop. John was the son of Jedediah, the oldest member of the clan, and had gone East, to New York, and become so noted in his law profession that his name sometimes appeared in the metropolitan papers. He had come all the way across the continent with his wife, whom none of the family had seen. The cakes had baked without a flaw, and the little spinster was content in her anticipations.
Elvira was one of the first to meet at the Hall. She knew that the women depended on her to help with the arrangements and the cooking. They said she was right handy at fixing the flowers?mostly potted plants?and telling the men where to put the chairs and rugs; then there was the paring of the vegetables. Making room for the turkeys, and the dishes, and she didn't have any children to bother her. As she scurried around on her sore leg, helping to place the horsehair sofas, the buttoned leather lounges, and the nondescript rocking chairs, she could not forget her cakes. Her pride in them was almost indecent. Each year she tried to make a different icing. This time the smooth, white surface had an "L" with flourishes in every direction. With that "L" there could be no mistaking her cakes!
About one o'clock the families began to assemble. The older ones and a few of the youngest had been to the Thanksgiving services in the Meeting House. The Lathrops were a large and important part of the town, and they all bore the marks of their English and Scotch-Irish ancestry. In their number was Charles K., bald and rotund, and president of the one bank. He drove up in his car, the second one in the town, with instructions for his son Frank to spare no gas when errands were to be run. Then there was Ralph K., also of the older generation, who was stake president and had invited both his counselors and their families. Bishop Madsen had been invited, too, because David Lathrop, just returned from a mission and newly married to Red Water's belle, was his first aid. Lean and lanky Rod, standing six foot two in his bare feet and more typical of the clan than Charles, was there, looking as if the weight of his great sheep herds was more than he could bear. And that was Howard, by the door. Howard, was a younger one and taught school at the State University. All the town was proud of Howard. Wasn't that Ellen, the only business woman in the family, walking in with her husband? She lived in the capital city also. The wives were noisily in evidence; mostly plump they were, except the older Lathrop girls, flushed and energetic. The sunbrowned husbands of the Lathrops stood about, abashed in their Sunday clothes, for all the world as if they were not yet used to contact with the powerful clan. There was no sign of Esther and her fourth.
The women glanced apprehensively at the door and then at each other. There was a hush over the laughing back-slapping crowd at his entrance, then a pleased little burst of welcome, and after that everyone talking at once. With him was his New York wife, whose accent they would never forgive, nor cease in their talk about her stylish clothes. John was tall, distinguished with the straight Lathrop nose and dark hair. He had always had a part of the gracious dignity that was so evident now, and his pleasure at being home was not feigned. She wanted to rush to him, but her self-consciousness held her back. One time he had been her only confidant, and he knew of the plans she and Eric had made. Eric was to live with the cousin, and Elvira was to supply part of the money needed for an education. John could put his emotions into words, and was the only help she had accepted. She hated to have him see her a faded part of the background, only made welcome because blood ties were no slight thing; she had to speak to him some time. There he was, smiling in her direction. He broke through the crowd, his hands outstretched. She felt her old dress, aware that even her best silk was years behind the styles, and then the tables, concocted of lumber and trestles, ran the length of the long hall. Every Lathrop, large or small, was seated. Most of them came from the farm home from school before supper was finished. Elvira and Ward were seated next to Delia and her sprawling family and near enough to John to reminisce with the banker. The two lone members ate with hearty appetites, their eyes opened wide as if to retain the excitement and genial contact until a quieter day.
After the prayer came turkey, roast pork and beef, chicken smothered in flaky tan crust, salad and vegetables with the dried fruit the Lathrop men spent August days in paring and slicing; shivering jellies, pickles and yellow rolls, all shot with the lemon glow of the sun drifting through the newly washed Relief Society curtains. For dessert there was squash pie, piled with whipped cream, plum pudding, and heavily iced cakes, with a special treat of bananas and grapes brought from Salt Lake by John.
Elvira was animated with pride when she saw her two cakes, cut in small pieces, the "L" still visible, and topped with red rose buds that had come from Provo only this morning. Eric's voice, made content by the food and companionship, was heard asking if he might have cake before pie or pudding. Happily flushed, she pushed one of her platters his way. Before she could see it reach its destination, John called to her from his seat near the head. Something had reminded him of an experience at the Academy and he wanted to share it with her.
"Do you know, Elvira," he half shouted above the buzz of Lathrop talk, "that I saw the same Fanny Davis who had a room at our place in Provo on Fifth Avenue a week ago."
Flattered, Elvira chatted back, anxious to know why Fanny was in the East, but at the same time straining an ear for Eric's comment. She hoped, too, that John would hear and take pieces for him and his wife.
"She and her husband," John was explaining, his long, white fingers stretched on the linen cloth, when she heard Eric addressing the group at large.
"Yes sir," he was saying, "Delia beat Elvira at her own game. She got the receipt to the potato cake, got it made, and you'd better taste it before you go on to the pie."
In a daze Elvira looked at the chocolate mound disappearing on Eric's plate, then back to her platter with its festive roses and untouched pieces; and back to Eric's proud gaze and Delia's triumphant one. There could be no mistake; in front of him was a chocolate cake, on a platter not her own and dressed in brown icing. Slowly the color receded from her face and the life from her eyes. They became old and tired and she dared not lift them from her plate. Her work-hardened fingers clutched at the handkerchief in her lap?she wished the table had a leg she could lay hold to; but she wished more that she could disappear, under the board table, into the kitchen, out the side path, or any place just so she did not have to sit here and pretend to smile.
The relatives were talking and laughing now, asking Delia how she managed to get the recipe. Even before Delia began her willing explanation, Elvira knew. It came to her in one clear picture how Delia had watched every move in the cake making. "Fool!" she called herself, to be caught that way. Anyone who knew anything about measurements could tell from the array, and she had been slow in mixing the batter; slow while she listened to Delia gossip! All props to her shrinking self were being torn from their groundings, and in a few minutes she would be standing there naked and quivering to face the ruthless Lathrops. Her face was the color of wood ashes and her chin was beginning to tremble. In an attempt to appear at ease she glanced around the table and saw Eric, all the merriment gone from his face. His hands fumbled with the bright silver, while his eyes beseeched her to understand that his part in the downfall had been unwitting. He had meant only to have a little joke. She felt sorry for him, but she could not summon assurance to her eyes.
"And I," Delia went endlessly on, "didn't think of it till I got out to the gate and started for old lady Henry's," "Liar," Elvira wanted to scream. The cousin was not telling the whole truth; she had used the gossip as a pretext for coming when she felt certain the cake was in the making); "and then the idea struck me, and I rushed home. I got the thing made before Eric come home for his supper, and I defy any of you to tell it from Elviry's own. And what's more," she finished with intentioned malice, "if any of you want the receipt, you can have it for the asking!"
In the laugh that followed, the spinster, regardless of questioning eyes, or knowing giggles, and the Lathrop tradition of never disclosing feelings in public, slipped away from the table and out of the nearest door. There were three blocks between the Hall and her home, and she ran them without a coat in the thin, cold November light. Few persons were on the street, but these she did not see. Her aching leg was forgotten until a sharp reminder from it stopped her near the gate. Once home she slipped off her best dress, only half conscious of a new rip in the carefully darned armhole. She started a fire in the box stove of the sitting-room, and with elevated leg took up her knitting; it always soothed her, and Ward wanted his woolen socks for winter.
As the needles clicked she wondered if they had ceased talking and snickering over her sudden exit. Soon it would be time for the men to go home for hurried chores. And after that the program would change attractions. There would be music, such as her starved ears seldom heard: Lizzie's oldest daughter who was studying "voice" in Salt Lake would sing; Hardy Jones, known all over the West for his violin playing, would give repeated encores, and the Lathrop male quartette would sing "Lucky Jim" and "Happy Days." After that would come dancing, old-fashioned quadrilles and reels that Elvira would love to have danced. Also there would be waltzes and fox trots and two steps as a concession to the youngsters. Yet she was glad that she was away from it all, the pitying glances, the stinging wit, and the condescension of persons who would be kind, "because poor Elviry, she's not got a soul but Ward, and he's no more company than a sheep."
When she could knit no longer, she turned on the light to read, but the pages blurred and her thoughts would revert to the afternoon. Eyes on the red-checkered cloth, she rocked, thinking, thinking. Soon she might lose her place in the store, and that would mean help from the relatives, maybe Eric and Delia. "Never!" she hissed to the crackling fire. The shame of Delia's disclosure came to her in hot waves, making her clench her teeth and shudder. It was not the loss of the recipe that troubled her so much now, it was the degradation of being laughed at, made a joke before John and the clan assembled; and it was Eric to whom she had given all fidelity who had bared the loss of her pitiful secret. She was worse than Esau, for he at least had received a meal. She felt a sickish feeling in the pit of her stomach, but she sat there rocking. If Ward had only not arranged with the Hansen boy to milk the cow, she might have had something to do. But as the twilight deepened the comfort of familiar things came to her: The faded rag carpet, the walnut and marble mantle with the loud ticking clock that had been hauled across the Plains, the homely furniture made in the days of Red Water's co-operative manufacturing, and the looped curtains of Nottingham lace. Past skill with the needle was recalled. "I do believe I could pick it up again, if I have to quit my job. It would help my leg, and Charles' wife is always after me to make her a dress." Once the banker's wife came, others would find the way. Perhaps they would compensate in part for the life and gayety she would miss at the store. She'd be glad to get away from Hans anyway. Clarity and peace were returning. Even if Ward did become crippled, they could rent out the farm, and still have enough to feed them.
When Ward came in after eleven o'clock, she was sitting quietly, knitting. He was as inarticulate as ever, but as he awkwardly took the cane-bottomed rocker on the other side of the box stove, his fumbling gestures betrayed his desire for words. Twice in the same day she felt sorry for men.
"Did you have a nice time?" she asked, trying to keep the tremor out of her voice that had sprung up at Ward's sympathy.
"Yes." He struggled to tell her how he had enjoyed the old friends, the hours of forgetting himself. "Some of the girls even asked me to dance a reel with them," he boasted deprecatingly.
Elvira knew the sad figure he had cut, with his stiff legs, long hair and rusty blue suit, but she only said, "I'm glad," and tried to smile. Stirring in his seat, Ward looked at her hopefully, then relapsed into a tense silence. They sat there, she rocking, and only the loud ticking of the clock, the roar of the newly stirred fire disturbed them. Her eyes were suspiciously bright; her thin lips closed like a vise.
"We ought to be getting to bed," Ward suggested, breathing heavily, but neither moved. Suddenly he sat erect in his chair. He relapsed again, but the start had been made.
"It was a mean trick of Delia's about the cake," he blurted out, the words tumbling over each other in their unaccustomed speed. "There was a lot of people thought the same, though they didn't say so at the table, because they was afraid of her tongue. John's wife come right up to me and she says, 'Tell your sister that was one of the most delicious cakes I have ever eaten!'" He was surer of himself now, a pride entered his speech and a faint reminder of Mrs. John's softened r's and shorter vowels. "'John and I are going to call on her tomorrow night, after the store is closed, if she will permit us, and if she would let us have the recipe, I'd think it was the kindest favor'." He wiped his brow and went on, not noticing that his sister's eyes were gleaming with the first of the held-back tears. "And during the program Eric came up, too, kinda nervous, to tell me he didn't countenance his wife's actions. He said he never in the world would have said what he did, if he'd a knowed Delia was going to say what she did. And besides," Ward was almost winded now from the effort, and there were beads of moisture on his lean face, "she said her cake wasn't near as good as yourn."
Elvira's tears halted him now, and he watched her, embarrassed at their volume. She was shaking from chin to toe, but it was good to know that Eric understood; that Delia had not dulled all his old kindliness. She was glad, too, John remembered and would come. Not many of the Lathrops would be favored with such a visit.
"It don't matter none," she told her helpless brother, as she gathered up her scattered knitting. She carefully wiped her eyes and nose while Ward closed the stove draughts and locked the doors. The tears were stopping now; the relaxation that comes with their outpouring was beginning to be felt. "It don't matter none," she repeated, "besides," a light broke over her face, and the tired lines faded, "I got that pineapple conserve recipe that no one's ever tried before. I guess that'll hold Delia when I spring it at the Relief Society bazaar this coming December!"
Without calling goodnight, for that would have been sentimental foolishness, they turned off the lights and went into their cold bedrooms.
Pioneers: WHEN WEST WAS WEST?OWEN WISTER By Lois V. Hales
"When West Was West" is a recently published book of nine short stories written by the well known American writer Owen Wister. Mr. Wister knew the west in all its glory. Born of Quaker parentage in Philadelphia in 1860, he, like his beloved friend Theodore Roosevelt, came west in 1885 for his health. He stayed for several months on a Wyoming ranch. This was the only one of many visits to the west where he fished and hunted to his heart's content. He came to know intimately the landscape, the soldiers, the cowboys, and the Indians. He learned to love this country dearly, and felt that it was too little appreciated; so he began to write sketches and short stories about it. Today he is one of the best known, best loved, and most read of the present-day American writers of the west.
"When West Was West" is a monument to the old West, a west which he knew when it was really west. In theme the stories are very different, but Mr. Wister writes equally well of the varied phases of pioneer life. To show the scope and variety of the book, as well as its bearing on pioneer life, we should like to speak especially about four of these stories.
"Bad Medicine," the opening story in the book, gives us a colorful picture of the Indian, who played so important a part in our pioneer life. The story deals with a visit to Yellowstone Park in the early days of its history. Against this background Mr. Wister portrays the Indian with his fears, his superstitions, and his reticence. We feel the elemental quality of the red man. "Did this descendant of wars and wildernesses know the centuries dividing us that his quietness mysteriously conveyed. With his drooping-headed, saturnine animal, he seemed to share some intimate lore of nature that I and all white men were shut out from." As he casts himself into the crater we feel still more strongly how close to nature he is and how little we understand him.
"The Right Honorable the Strawberries" is the story of the son of an old English title, young, handsome, likeable, who came to the West and captured the heart of the upright cow-puncher Chalkeye. In the relationship between the Englishman and the American we see the difference between the Old World and the New. The fathomless reticence of the English coupled with the startling Western freedom of speech?freedom as to their incomes, their families, their gaieties?is deep beyond all American understanding. How could Chalkeye, with his freedom where the Englishmen is silent, understand Strawberries. How could he know "that the true aristocrat always is the best democrat, because he is at his ease with everybody, and makes them so with him." Yet, between the two, grew up a friendship which prompted Chalkeye to give his life for Strawberries, and brought Strawberries back to Drybone long after all others had left it. In Chalkeye we have one of Mr. Wister's best characterizations.
One day Rudyard Kipling and Owen Wister were returning by train from Washington after dining with their mutual friend Theodore Roosevelt. They were talking "shop," and Wister told the story of a disaster that occurred at a certain military post as a result of the annoyance caused to a certain lively-minded captain by the length of a certain chaplain's hair. An Apache, carefully rehearsed by the captain, played his part in the story. Kipling found the story so good that he said it must be written and entitled "Absalom." Years later Mr. Wister wrote the story and it is included in this book under the title "Absalom and Moulting Pelican." Colonel Steptoe McDee, a Southern gentleman, is a commanding figure, strong, alert, and intelligent. Brokenhearted over the outcome of the Civil War, he comes to the West and meets Randy, a typical Western boy. The warm friendship between these two of such varying ages and traditions is one of the finest things Wister has portrayed.
Tragedy has always followed in the wake of the railroad. "At the Sign of The Last Chance," the closing story in the book, tells of the tragedy wrought by the railroad to an old inn where the coaches changed horses or stopped for meals in the good old days. Just a few old men playing a listless game was all Wister found on his last visit. He thus describes it: "I had begun to see those beards long before they were gray; when no wire fence mutilated the freedom of the range; when fourteen mess-wagons would be at the spring round up; when cattle wandered and pastured, dotting the endless wilderness; when roping them brought the college graduate and the boy who had never learned to read, into a lusty equality of youth and skill; when songs rose by the camp-fire; and the dim form of the night herder leaned on his saddle horn as under the stars he circled slowly around the recumbent thousands; when two hundred miles stretched between all this and the whistle of the nearest locomotive.
"And all this was over. It had begun to end a long while ago. It had ebbed away slowly from these now playing their nightly game as they had once played it at flood-tide. The turn of the tide had come even when the beards were still brown."
To Wister, "the requiem of the brown and golden beards, their romance, their departed West, too good to live forever, was finished."
All nine of the stories comprising this book are unusual. The vivid characters, the spontaneous wit, and the excellent description that comes of personal observation make this book good and wholesome. One feels the broadness and generous tolerance of the author and realizes "that when one lives out of doors and takes account of the sky and the clouds, and the quiet earth, one lives hard, it may be, but one lives true."
Books
Married Sweethearts
Somehow I feel that when the average reader picks up "Married Sweethearts," by Alfred Osmond, and especially if he knows the author to be a poet, he will suspect that he is to read something mildly sentimental in praise of wedded home life; and he may be inclined to lay the book aside with the thought "A good book surely, which I shall read some day when I get more time." But let this reader open the lids of the book and he will not read it at some other time but right away?at once, scarcely laying the book down after he has begun it. For the entire story is gripping, and holds the reader with fascinating interest from first to last. The story is a succession of real thrills; and while it does contain many fine sentiments well expressed, it never slops over in this respect but brings in the sentiment with skill and ease just where it belongs.
The book deals with bandits, robbers, murderers, outlaws, sweethearts, married and unmarried, captured and uncaptured. For the outlaws capture some of them; and the record of their adventures forms a series of pictures comparable with the best Indian stories of former days. There is a good deal of shooting, of combats, of adventures in the mountains amid snow and storms, among wolves and savage men who know chiefly one thing well?how to shoot with deadly effect and to do so upon slight provocation. Thus the book is one that makes a strong appeal to both youth and strong natures, who love action and tense scenes and situations.
With all this the book is yet true to its title. While it contains the required materials of dramatic plot and the hairbreadth escapes which hold any reader's interest, it also sets forth the higher beauty of the spirit and the dominant part which the spirit takes in governing the actions of normal and abnormal men and women. It is a love story throughout with several sets of lovers, and so has the charm of romance for all those not too old to remember the glorious days of youth and for the youth who is just about to experience these delights. At the same time there is running through the tense and exciting narrative, like a golden vein in a layer of quartz, a religious philosophy of life and of the power of love to redeem men and women from even their lowest and most deeply fallen estates. That the author can make his book preach a sermon while relating the incidents of thrilling adventure is a high tribute to his genius and ability as both philosopher and story teller.
The book is filled also with description of the beauty of western mountains, yet there seems to be little description in it since the scenes are a vital part of the drama itself, not being brought in for the purposes of descriptive writing. The characters, too, follow the Homeric rule of acting and speaking for themselves, so that there is not much need to label them as this or that type of human being. Each one is a true and distinctive species of the human race, and each describes himself mainly by what he says and does.
The story is laid somewhere in Utah, at a not very distant day, in a village near the mountains; it has many characters of plain, average people. The home life of several couples is set forth with a trifle of exaggeration, as if in order to make sure that readers shall see the point. Of the heroines there are quite a number?Nell Foster, Lily Williams, Samantha Wolf and Vera King, all being conspicuous, and each taking a rather heavy part. The men are Sunny Brown, Badger Wolf, Hen Fox, Dave Holmes, Butch Cassidy, the notorious western outlaw, and several of his men.
Neil Foster is kidnapped and carried to robbers' roost in the mountains, not for a ransom, but for a test of her supposed love for an old sweetheart Stanley Black, whom she had dismissed a year or so before. She is remarkable but rather less so than the obscure girl, Lily Williams, married to slovenly but good hearted Vern Williams, who is untidy and uncultured. Lily goes in search of her kidnapped friend, Nell. She is guided by the mail carrier for the robber, who turns out to be of first magnitude as a man of iron and of honor, and accompanied by Sunny Brown, a young man of the village not in love with anyone, who at length becomes a real hero and falls in love with an ideal woman, the picture of his own fancy. He finally meets her in these mountains with the usual result.
Nell discovers that her discarded lover had no hand in her abduction but that on the contrary he has become a man of high ideals and lofty character, writing a book on the philosophy of life. The story ends right, and is a good one.
Pioneers
Peder Victorious?O. E. Rolvaag
"O you youths, Western youths, So impatient; full of action, full of manly pride and friendship, Plain I see you, Western youths, see you tramping with the foremost? Pioneers! O Pioneers!
Have the elder races halted? Do they droop and end their lesson, wearied over there beyond the seas? We take up the task eternal, and the burden and the lesson, Pioneers! O Pioneers!
We debouch upon a newer, mightier world, varied world, Fresh and strong the world we seize, world of labor and the march, Pioneers! O Pioneers!"
This is the theme of O. E. Rolvaag's new novel "Peder Victorious," which is a sequel to his first great pioneer novel, "Giants in the Earth." It is a tale of the second generation of Norwegian pioneers on the Dakota Plains. In Mr. Rolvaag's first novel the conflict was that of man and the prairies. In this novel it is that of parents and children. Especially is it the story of the struggle between a strong, dominating, backward-looking mother and her gifted, forward-looking son. They are antagonists as to language, religion, and attitude toward life. But Peder is victorious for "fresh and strong" the world and its problems he seizes, and carries on the march of the pioneers.
In a small sod hut on the Dakota prairie one Christmas Eve, a son was born to Beret and Per Hansa. In pure thankfulness and because the child was born with "the helmet," Per named him Peder Victorious, much to the disgust of Beret. Who felt that here on the pitiless prairies no one could be victorious, for the evil must sooner or later get us all. While Peder was very small, Per Hansa wandered off into the prairie, never to return alive. After the cruel and, to all outward appearances, senseless death of his beloved father, Peder grappled with the problem of God as an all-loving and all-powerful entity. It seemed queer to him that "He who could do all that He wanted, and wanted only that which was good, couldn't get people to do what He wanted." His mother Beret had built up within him a supernatural reality, and the only suggestion he got from her was that God acts as he does in order to try people. As Peder pondered it all, he wondered why grown people were always ready to cry. He decided that "the greatest thing on earth must be to make people happy?so full of joy that they had to laugh?that's what he wanted to do." Here he and Beret came into serious conflict, for to her all happiness was sinful. She had forgotten that it is God who causes all life to flower, and who puts both good and evil into the hearts of men. She could not understand that God is good and that he sanctions love, joy, and happiness. Beret wanted Peder to enter the ministry, but she drove him away from it with these strange ideas. Peder became a farmer instead of a minister.
Beret was very sad as she watched the Americanization of Peder. As he assimilated the English language in the place of the language of his father, she lost hope. Here in America the Norwegians were gradually casting away all that they had brought with them from Norway. After all had been taken and there was nothing but the body left, what then? Was it possible for Norwegian hearts to beat in a medium so alien? Must it not eventually mean death to them as a race here in America. "But could a common sparrow take the meadow lark's song?" Was the minister right when he said that in twenty years not one word of Norwegian would be heard in America? With these thoughts, Beret fights her progressive son as he grapples with the problems of becoming an American. Thanks to his father's pioneer spirit moving within him, Peder keeps looking forward, and takes over to the full his "New World inheritance."
These are the things we find of most importance in this fine new book. Here, as in "Giants in The Earth," we discover what critics have called faith in the nobility of the human spirit. Peder fights the problems of his generation with just the same fine spirit that his father fought the prairie. Mr. Rolvaag gives us a truthful picture of the differences of the old and the young in any generation. He treats the attitude of each generation with the same sympathy and respect. Of the religious attitude of the Norwegians here in America he says, "A people's soul had begun to stir. That which the mind?in some hidden cove of a Norwegian fjord, or on some lonely island far out where the mighty sea booms eternally?through centuries had conceived of religious mysticism, and there shaped so as to fit the conditions of life, now sought a natural expression on the open reaches of the prairie."
Naturally, we do not find so many fine and varied pictures of the prairie as we did in "Giants in The Earth." But we feel keenly the effect of it on the characters of the book. "From eternity the prairie had lain here, lapping sun and drinking moisture, and had peered up into an endless blue sky, brimful to running over. At evening it had listened to strange tales told by the twilight breeze * * *
"Human habitations lay far apart upon the open stretches?miles apart in places. One could not borrow warmth from the other here. Through the cold grayness they seemed to huddle up, to crouch low over something, as if jealously guarded."
Notes from the Field
South Sevier Stake
On September 9, 1928, at 2 p. M. A South Sevier Stake Relief Society class leaders' convention was held in the Elsinore ward chapel with more than 80 stake and ward officers in attendance. A talk "Teachers and Better Methods of Teaching" was given by Brother Harold Anderson. A discussion of the lesson was held, and then department work was carried out. It is believed that much good will result from this convention.
Pocatello Stake (Meadow Ward)
Meadow ward is small, but seemingly alive to opportunities in Relief Society work. The ward is a winner in stake contests, and boasts of 100% annual dues paid last year.
Grant Stake
The closing session of the Grant stake Relief Society class leaders' convention was held in the form of a banquet on November 15, 1928. President Winnifred B. Daynes presided. Speakers of the evening were Elder David O. McKay, President Louise Y. Robison, and President Joseph J. Daynes. The hall was beautifully decorated with the Fall flowers, and the Relief Society color scheme of white and gold was used on the tables. About 450 guests were present, including Elder and Mrs. David O. McKay, the Stake Presidency, High Council, Bishoprics, and other ward officers. President Louise Y. Robison, past President Clarissa S. Williams, and other members of the General Board were present.
This progressive stake has also made an enviable record in its Magazine subscriptions. The stake itself gave as a prize to the ward having the greatest number of subscribers per capita, ten subscriptions to the Magazine. This went to the Southgate ward, of which Mrs. May Fromeyer is the agent. This ward shows an enrollment of 42 members in the Relief Society, with a subscription of 48 to the Magazine. It is fine missionary work when non-members of the Relief Society become subscribers to the Magazine. The next ward to win distinction in this activity was the Whittier, with Mrs. Emily A. Jones as agent. The enviable record made here is that of an increase from 18 to 80 subscribers within two years.
Alpine Stake
Special attention is called to the very beautiful and appropriate memorial to Annie C. Hindley. This is a most unusual and constructive manner in which to do honor to a noble woman whose life was devoted to service for her sisters. On October 25, 1928, the official dedication exercises in honor of the project were held in the Alpine stake tabernacle, with President Maud D. Christensen of the Alpine stake Relief Society presiding. The Annie C. Hindley memorial shelf, which occupies two ceiling cabinets on each side of the entrance door of the public library in American Fork was thrown open to the public. This valuable collection numbers more than 308 books, which will be most serviceable to the women in the work that was so dear to Mrs. Hindley's heart. The public is cordially invited to visit this library. No finer testimonial could be given, and we congratulate the sisters of this stake on this fine accomplishment. We are sure that the volumes in the library will be invaluable for reference and for entertainment. The General Board took great pleasure in adding to this collection. The invitation is still open to those who may wish to donate books in memory of Mrs. Hindley. We feel that a work has just begun here that will be most notable in its development and of lasting benefit to lovers of truth and admirers of Mrs. Hindley.
Franklin and Oneida Stakes
Relief Society officers of the Franklin and Oneida stakes cooperated in conducting a pleasant and profitable class leaders' convention on September 22, 1928. Representatives of the presidencies of these stakes, one advisory High Councilman, some prominent educators, and 102 officers of the Relief Society were in attendance. The work of the chorister was ably outlined, and what careful work can do was demonstrated. Professor John E. Marsden discussed the subject "Better Methods of Teaching and Better Teachers." It is felt that the class leaders were greatly benefited by this talk. An exemplary lesson was developed in each of the three departments, theology, literature, and social service. The music was furnished by the ward Relief Society members. Two beautiful quilts, work done by the Oneida stake board of Relief Society, were exhibited. Franklin and Oneida were one stake formerly, so the luncheon and social hour which followed the meeting was greatly enjoyed in making new acquaintances and renewing old friendships.
St. George Stake
A most inspirational and instructive class leaders' convention was held in connection with a flower show and pageant in the St. George stake Relief Society. Members came from all parts of the stake. Fifteen associations took part in the day's activities. In spite of the severe droughts and extreme heat of the past season, the flower show exceeded all expectations. The artificial flowers showed skill and art in execution. In the morning session departmental work was conducted. In the afternoon excellent talks were given by J. Wm. Harrison and Sister Verna Cox on "The Relief Society as a Teacher," and "Religion in the Home." Musical numbers were furnished by Enterprise, Toquerville, and St. George wards. At noon, in the St. George cafe, a delicious luncheon was served to 80 officers.
To celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society in St. George, a pageant was presented in the College Auditorium. The parts pertaining to the stake were composed by Sisters Zora Jarvis, Roxie Romney, and Alfa McGregor. The pageant presented the seven General Presidents of the Relief Society impersonated by local members. This was followed by the five "Dixie" presidents. The closing part represented the present stake president, Sister Josephine J. Miles, with her ward presidents: The ladies all dressed in white; the ward presidents kneeling, each holding a gold streamer connected with a staff held by the stake president as she stood, connecting the past stake and the General Presidents, who made up the background. Excellent choruses furnished appropriate singing for the pageant.
Morgan Stake. Morgan stake feels that a very successful Relief Society year has been completed; that the ward presidents and aids have been capable, enthusiastic leaders. On October 30, 1928, an inspirational convention of the Stake Relief Society was held, when effective talks along the lines covering most of the Relief Society activities were given. More than 200 workers were in attendance at this gathering, and much NOTES FROM THE FIELD 213 educational and spiritual work reflecting the scope of the whole organization was put-over. The musical program for the occasion was one of the outstanding features. Moapa Stake. The aged sisters, shown below, are members of the Overton Relief Society, and have spent many years of active service in the work, holding places of responsibility. The youngest of the group is 71 years of age, the oldest 88. They are still active and faithful?all honor to such groups whose life is a testimony of high idealism. Last June the stake took up as a project, "The Open Door," and learned the songs in the music practice period during the remainder of the year at the regular Relief Society meetings. A few group practices finished the preparation. Each Relief Society took responsibility for two pageant scenes; the stake board and one other near-by group joined, making in all five groups who worked harmoniously together for the successful presentation of the pageant. The president feels that much good has come from the effort, and it was also a financial success. 'There were many obstacles to be overcome but a very successful presentation of the pageant showed what unity of effort and determination to accomplish certain objectives may do. Maricopa Stake. ' Some very interesting experiences come into the work of the Relief Society in the Maricopa stake. Not the least of this is the work among our Lamanite sisters. In February the Papago ward was reorganized; a native sister, Martha Manuel, was selected to be the president. A very fine spirit of mutual helpfulness pervades the work of the organization in this stake; the stronger wards seeking to help those who have greater difficulties in Relief Society endeavor, Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in June) LOYALTY: ITS MEANING AND NECESSITY Loyalty is faithfulness. In its highest form, it has behind it confidence, respect, and love. Inner loyalty is a mental attitude of enduring faithfulness that holds out against approach of all impulses leading to desertion of accepted principles, espoused causes, adopted ideals, or worthy persons. Outer loyalty is conduct in keeping with inner loyalty. It is faithfulness expressed in word and action. It is good will in operation toward an objective. There is more character in full loyalty to a fable than there is in part loyalty to a fact. Disloyalty cannot be transmuted into any form of goodness. Out of loyalty to an error may develop power for loyalty to truth. In his conscientious persecution Paul was loyal to the light he had; and this loyalty made him the fighter of the good fight, the winner of the life race, the keeper of the faith. His loyalty was true in both cases; true to an accepted error, true to a discerned truth; true to a foe, true to a friend. Loyalty is love's most precious gift; it is friendship's final proof; it is humanity's strongest lifting lever. Endurance faithful to the end, Links up the man to God as friend, Earth loyalty of day-by-day Illuminates the heavenly way. Loyalty and Law: Jesus declares his loyalty to law and to the prophets who had proclaimed it. He points out the relative value of word loyalty and action loyalty. See Matt. 5:17, 18, 19. That he Had regard for the civil law is plainly set forth in Matt. 22:17-21. Christ's loyalty to law was shown to the wife of Pilate in a dream. In the face of a multitude of accusers the Roman Governor pronounced the "Man of Galilee" not guilty, reminding the mob that he and Herod, the King of Judea, agreed as to verdict of innocence, and thus making it unmistakably clear that Jesus had been loyal to the laws of the Kingdom of Judea and to those-of the Roman empire. (Luke 23:13, 16.) GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 215 In the 12th Article of Faith the Latter-day Saints proclaim to all the world that true to the faith includes loyalty to law, a loyalty that consists of "obeying, honoring, and sustaining," by living the law, defending the law and backing up the enforcement of the law. The constitutional law of any country has first claim upon the civic loyalty of everybody in that country be they citizens or visitors. (See 12th Article of Faith.) Loyalty to One's Word of Honor or One's Covenants: A word of honor to stand. By righteousness is an aid to the elevation of standards, but a word of honor given in support of evident unrighteousness is, conspiracy against human happiness; there is no honor in a pledge of that kind. Such a promise is conceived in dishonor, born of dishonor, and kept with dishonor. It is one of the most tragic forms of disloyalty. One's word of honor is a part of one's sacred self; it cannot knowingly be given to degrading causes without taking the giver downward. An oath of office is one of the highest words of honor; it cannot honestly be taken without an inner loyalty to the law. Loyalty to one's word of honor lifts one's self respect and wins the respect of others. Loyalty to Causes: The espousal of some great cause is esential to an abundant life, and loyalty to a great cause develops greatness of character. The greatness of an individual or of a group is measurable by the greatness of the causes espoused or the projects projected by them and by their loyalty to these causes in the carrying out of the project. The lasting lifting power of loyalty to a good cause is immeasurable. From such loyalty came freedom, and through such loyalty the era of good will shall come, when the "Goddess of right and the Champion might shall meet at the altar of love." The causes constantly calling for loyalty are freedom, education, temperance, peace, health, justice, tolerance, purity?all included in the great cause of Christianity. Loyalty to Ideals: Ideals are character rainbows. As we approach them they move on, but their lure is lofty; if we turn our backs upon them they are no more to us. For the soul that is loyal to an ideal there is no deluge. My rainbow stood on the top of a hill And beckoned me to the golden till; I climbed, and it sped to the mountain-side, All I had gained was a vision wide; I was left in the shadow. 216 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE My rainbow lured me higher still, I climbed and felt the climber's thrill; My rainbow fled to the mountain top, I climbed, I would not, could not, stop? Thank God, I said, for my rainbow. Family Loyalty: "Blood is thicker than water'?yes, and it should be. "I came to my own," said the Savior. The close-knit families are the enduring ones. The family tree is under the special protection of every member. Family loyalty forbids hacking it with the hacker's envy or cutting it with tongues of slander. Cousins cannot speak evil of each other without a rebound of their depreciation of each other's values. Sisters-in-law do themselves and their children a good turn when they take good care of the reputation of each other. Family loyalty increases the sun-kissed output of the family tree. Better brag a little on one's brother than to belittle him; for the more belittling, the bigger the burden of a relative. Family loyalty will foster family friendship and develop family love. Notice the family member who is full of family loyalty, and usually he or she is the center of family confidence, admiration, and good will. The lack of loyalty in a family points to domestic decline and is a signal of the approach of unfitness to survive. Family loyalty is not limited to praise of good qualities; it goes over into the field of helpfulness. Members of a family should be as glad to lift on the unfortunate as they are to share with the fortunate members. Charity should not only begin at home, but should be loyally followed up within the family circle; and the helpers should know that it is harder to be helped than it is to help. Family loyalty fights the wolf of want; holds back the hand of hate. It finds means and ways for home happiness and kindred friendship. Its limitations are bounded only by higher loyalty, of which loyalty to righteousness is the highest. Religious Loyalty: This form of loyalty includes loyalty to the beliefs and the ideals for which the Church stands and to the Church leaders. It is a loyalty that suggests the slogan, "Everything to boost and nothing to belittle." No religion is so complete nor any ideal so perfect nor any officer so infallible that improvement may not be thought of and spoken about in a build-up spirit; but all of these are too sacred to be made the object of faultfinding with destructive disloyalty behind it. In this age of unlimited religious freedom, consistency suggests that people should not belong to a Church to which they cannot be loyal GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 217 in their works. Church loyalty leads to doing one's "bit" for the Church; not only the little bit, the "get-by" bit, but the "full-share" bit?the share indicated by the law of the Lord. For a religion without belief i# and obligation to God is nothing more than a social organization and is not entitled to the name religion. Religion is the application of theology; and theology is a code of beliefs concerning God and his relation to man. The life of Job was more than an example of patience; it was an example of perfect loyalty; for while his patience did not prevent him from speaking of his birth as an event to be regretted, his loyalty to the Lord led him to exclaim: "Though he slay me, yet will I trust in Him." (See Job 10:18, 19-13:15.) Questions and Problems 1. Into which topic of this lesson does the last part of the final stanza of "The Star Spangled Banner," fit? 2. Arrange in the order of their claim upon our. Loyalty the following named causes: freedom, temperance, justice. 3. Explain what is meant by inner loyalty. 4. Give evidence that the life of Jesus was an object lesson in loyalty to law. 5. Show that the Latter-day Saints are particularly committed to this form of loyalty. 6. Name some men and some women to whom fame and honor have come through their loyalty to causes. 7. Mention two or more great causes that are calling for the loyalty of Americans, and tell which you think is entitled to the most immediate attention. 8. Explain what loyalty to an ideal means to you. 9. What limitations should be put on family loyalty? 10. What habit in conversation proclaims one's loyalty to the Church? What habits advertise one's disloyalty to his religion? 11. Present evidence to prove that Job's loyalty was greater than his patience. 218 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Work and Business LESSON II (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in June) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE?ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 4 Wuy THE CHARITY COLLECTION? I. To provide, by helping those who need that help, an opportunity for an expression of appreciation for our own blessings. II. To avoid the prayers of widows and fatherless ascending against us. Ill. To offer, in disaster, bereavement, sickness, a means of support for the unfortunate. IV. To supply means to educate or otherwise to aid some people to help themselves. V. To train each member of every household by encouraging him to put by and contribute a small amount each month to help others. You may find it useful to learn the amount contributed per family in your Ward during the past year. It would appear that some of our literary class leaders, and some other people deeply interested in the literature lessons, have not yet learned that it is impossible to obtain a copy of "Joseph and His Brethren." The entire edition has been exhausted, and the book dealers are unable to obtain any further copies of the book. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 219 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) THE DOLL'S HOUSE By Henrik Ibsen Henrik Ibsen was born March 20, 1828, at the little seaport town of Skein, where one may purchase a good deal of: silverware, for which the Norwegian market is famous. Ibsen came of Scotch, Danish and German descent. His early years were Spent in penury. When he was fifteen years of age his family moved to Grimstad, a town of eight hundred inhabitants. In 1850 he went to Christiania, now Oslo, to prepare to enter the university. Having had the good fortune to meet Ole Bull, the great violinist, he was called to be threatre poet at jhe modest little national theatre at Bergen. There he remained until 1857. From Bergen, he later found himself again in Christiania, where he remained until 1864. While here, he acted as theatre poet for the Norwegian Theatre in Christiania. Ibsen had been writing plays since his Grimstad days. After his return to Christiania, he devoted himself actively to writing. After many efforts, he obtained a grant of money for traveling. His way Jed to Italy, and now for twelve years he was away from his native country, spending part of the time in Rome, part time in Munich, and part time in Dresden. By 1875 his European fame was established. He returned to Christiania for the remainder of his life. He died in 1906. His contribution to literature was that of a playwright, as he never wrote a biography or even a preface to his plays, nor did he enter into business or other public affairs, but devoted himself solely to writing.. It has been said on good authority that The Doll's House is the greatest of Ibsen's plays. Thomas H. Dickinson says: "With The Doll's House begins Ibsen's gallery of enfranchised women. Ibsen's distrust of the majority of average men had its complement in his faith in the superior man. And it is among the superior men that he places women. From his earliest playwriting he had treated women as of a superior order of humanity, superior in intuition, in steadfastness, in unselfishness." In The Doll's House Ibsen gives us the story of a woman who had been trained for entertaining in her father's home, who had been petted within the home and sheltered from the world outside of the home. She married a business man who accepted her very much on the same terms as her father had 220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE done before him?as a play thing. Finally, she was brought face to face with a very serious situation. Her husband was ill, the doctor told her in confidence that if he were not taken to another climate, he would lose his life. She had no money and knew that her husband was averse to borrowing money. She promised to obtain her father's signature to a note for a loan, but her father died before the signature was obtained, and she forged his name. Then, having obtained the money and thereby having provided the means whereby her husband's health was restored, she set to work to make the money in such little ways as were at her command. She copied manuscripts, deeds, and such like. Finally, in order to get the time, unbeknown to her husband, she told him that she was locked from him, hour after hour, preparing things for the Christmas tree. Finally, on Christmas Eve, she said the cat got into the room and destroyed all the things she had made. Difficulty arose between Nora's husband, Torvald Helmer, and the man from whom Nora had borrowed the money. His position was threatened at the bank where Helmer had been advanced and he wanted Nora to use her good offices to keep him in the place. Nora protested the thought of her having any influence with her husband, but Krogstad said he had known her husband since his school days and thought he was as susceptible as other men he had known. Nora was so optimistic over her husband's future that she did not think it necessary to be in any way especially considerate of Krogstad. Nora finally assured Krogstad that it was really not in her power to help him. Krogstad replied, "Because you will not; but I have the means of compelling you to help me." Nora said, "You don't intend to tell my husband that I owe you money?" Krogstad: Hm! Supposing I were to tell him? Nora: It would be scandalous of you (with suppressed tears.) This secret, which is my joy and my pride, he shall not learn in such a vulgar, blunt way?and from you, too. You want to put me to the most terrible annoyance. Krogstad: Only annoyance? Nora (hotly): But just do it; the consequences will be worse for you than anybody else; for then my husband will see clearly what a bad man you are, and then you certainly will not keep our post. Krogstad: I asked if it were only domestic unpleasantness that you were afraid of? Nora: If my husband gets to know about it he will, of course, pay the rest without delay; and then we have nothing more to do with you. Krogstad (stepping a pace nearer): Listen, Mrs. Helmer: GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 221 either you have rather a weak memory, or you don't know much about business. In that case I must get you to go more deeply into the matter. Nora: How will you do that? Krogstad: When your husband was ill, you came to borrow ?300 of me. Nora: I knew nobody else. Krogstad: I promised to find you the money. Nora: And you did find it. Krogstad: I promised to find you the money under certain conditions. You were just then so excited about your husband's illness, and so anxious to get hold of the money for your journey, that you probably did not think twice about the difficulties it involved. It is therefore not superfluous for me to remind you of them. Now, I promised to find you the money in exchange for an acknowledgment which I drew up. Nora: Yes, and I signed it. Krogstad: Very well. But then I added a few lines whereby your father became security for the debt. Your father was to sign this. Nora: Was to? He did sign. Krogstad: I had left the date blank; that is to say, your father was to insert the date on which he signed the document. Do you recollect this, Mrs. Helmer? Nora: Yes, I believe. Cede Krogstad: Thereupon I gave you the piece of paper that you might send it to your father. Is not that so? Nora: Yes. Krogstad: And of course you did so without delay; for within five or six days you brought me back the acknowledgment duly signed by your father. Then you received from me the sum promised. Nora: Well, to be sure; have I not paid it back punctually? Krogstad: Very fairly; yes. But let us return to the matter we were speaking of. You were in great trouble at the time, Mrs. Helmer? Nora: I was indeed. Krogstad: Your father, too, was very seriously ill, I believe. Nora: He was on his death-bed. Krogstad: And died soon after? Nora: Yes. Krogstad: Now, just tell me, Mrs. Helmer, whether by any chance you happen to recollect which day he died?which day of the month, I mean. Nora: Father died on the twenty-ninth of September. 222 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Krogstad: Quite correct; I have made inquiries about it. That is why I can not explain a remarkable circumstance (draws from his pocket a piece of writing.), Nora: A remarkable circumstance? I do not know. * Krogstad: The remarkable circumstance, dear Mrs. Helmer is, that your father signed this acknowledgment three days after his death. Nora: What? I don't understand. Krogstad: Your father died on the twenty-ninth of. September. But just look here. Here your father has dated his signature October the 2d. Is not that remarkable, Mrs. Helmer? (Nora is silent.) Can you explain that to me? (Nora continues silent.) It is also striking that the words "October the 2d" and the year are not in your father's handwriting, but in one which I believe I know. Now this may be explained by supposing that your father forgot to date it, and that somebody added the date by guess work before the fact of his death was known. There is nothing improper in that proceeding. But it is the signature of his name that my question relates to. And is it genuine, Mrs. Helmer? Was it really your father who with his own hand set his name here? Nora (after a short silence throws her head back and looks defiantly at him): No; it is I who wrote papa's name there. Krogstad: And are you aware, moreover, that that is a dangerous admission? Nora: Why? You will soon get your money. Krogstad: May I be permitted one more question: Why did you not send the document to your father? Nora: It was impossible. Father was then dangerously ill. If I had asked him for his signature I should also have had to tell him what I wanted the money for. But in his condition J really could not tell him that my husband's life hung by a thread. It was quite impossible. Krogstad: Then it would have been better for you to give up the journey abroad. Nora: That was impossible, too. My husband's life depended on that journey. I could not give it up. Krogstad: But did you not consider, then, that it was a fraud on me? Nora: I could not take any heed of that. I did not care in the least about you. I could not endure you on account of all the hard-hearted difficulties you made, although you knew how ill my husband was. Krogstad: Mrs. Helmer, you have evidently no clear idea what you have been really guilty of. But I can assure you it was nothing different from this, nor worse than this. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 223 that I once did, and that destroyed my entire position in society. Nora: You? Do you want to make me believe that you would have dared to do a courageous act in order to save your wife's life? Krogstad: The laws inquire little into motives. Nora: Then we must have very bad laws. Krogstad: Bad, or not bad?if I lay this document before a court of law you will be judged according to the laws. Nora: That I do not believe. Do you mean to tell me that a daughter has not the right to spare her old father, on his death-bed, care and worry? Do you mean to say that a wife has not the right to save her husband's life? J don't know the law precisely, but I am convinced that somewhere or another the law must contain leave for me to have done such things. And you don't know it?you, a lawyer. You must be a bad lawyer, Mr. Krogstad. Krogstad: I dare say. But business?such business as ours here?I do understand; you believe that? Very well. Now, do as you please. But this I do say to you: that if I am turned out of society a second time, you shall keep me company. Krogstad leaves Nora's home very much disturbed, and later writes a letter to her husband telling him of the whole affair. Nora knows that the letter is in the box, and she does everything to draw her husband's attention away from it. Finally, after their return from a ball, where she has danced the tarantella with surprising effect, he takes the letter from the box. Nora has had a romantic, idealistic attitude toward her husband, and she believes that when he learns of her trouble, he will be so grateful to her for having provided the means that saved his life, that he will take the whole responsibility on himself to protect her. Imagine her surprise when Helmer says to her: "Do you know what is in this letter? * * * You miserable creature?what have you done?" Nora: Let me go. You shall not suffer for it; you shall not take it upon yourself. Helmer: Don't try any actress's tricks (shuts the door to the hall.) Here you shall stay and abide my judgment. Do you comprehend what you have done? Answer. Do you understand it? Nora (looks at him fixedly, and says with heightened expression): Yes. Now I begin to understand it quite. Helmer (walking round): Oh, what an awful awakening! During all these eight years?you who were my pride and my joy?a hypocrite, a liar?ay, and worse, worse?a criminal. Oh! What an abyss of unloveliness it implies! Ugh! Ugh! (Nora
224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
is silent, and continues to look fixedly at him. Helmer continues standing before her.) I ought to have guessed that something of the kind was sure to happen. I ought to have foreseen it. Your father's low principles?be silent!?your father's low principles you have inherited, every one of them. No religion, no morality, no sense of duty. Oh, how bitterly punished I am for ever having winked at his doings! I did it for your sake; and this the way you reward me. Later, Krogstad sends a letter to Helmer which says that he has destroyed the evidence and it will not be produced against her. Then Helmer exclaims in his selfishness: "I am saved! Nora, I am saved!" And Nora asks, "And I?" and he says, "You too, of course." Helmer does not understand the shock he has given his wife. She asks him to sit down, telling him she has many things to talk over with him. Helmer (sitting opposite to her at the table): Nora, you make me anxious. * * * I don't in the least understand you. Nora: Just so. You don't understand me. And in the same way I have never understood you, till tonight. No, don't interrupt me. Only listen to what I say. * * * This is a breaking off, Torvald. Helmer: How do you mean? Nora (after a short silence): Does not one thing strike you as we sit here? Helmer: What should strike me? Nora: We have now been married eight years. Does it not strike you that tonight for the first time we two, you and I, husband and wife, are speaking together seriously? Helmer: Well; "seriously," what does that mean? Nora: During eight whole years and more, since the day we first made each other's acquaintance, we have never exchanged one serious word about serious things. Helmer: Ought I, then, too have persistently initiated you into difficulties you could not help me by sharing? Nora: I am not talking of difficulties. All I am saying is, that we have never yet seriously talked any one thing over together. Helmer: But, dearest Nora, would it have been any good to you if we had? Nora: That is the very point. You have never understood me. * * * I have been greatly wronged, Torvald. First by father and then by you. * * * Nora: Yes, it is just so, Torvald. While I was still at home with father, he used to tell me all his views, and so of course I held the same views; if at any time I had a different view I concealed it, because he would not have liked people
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 225
with opinions of their own. He used to call me his little doll, and play with me, as I in my turn used to play with my dolls. Then I came to live in your house. * * * Here I have been your doll-wife, just as at home I used to be papa's doll-child.
Problem
Nora thinks that there must be something wrong in a world where a woman may not be permitted to save her husband's life. She knows that she has been punished severely for doing the natural thing, and so she wonders what is the matter with the laws. At least, she has learned one thing, that if a woman is to have freedom to do the good that is within her soul, she must understand her world. So she leaves Helmer with the children. She rather accepts his verdict that she is not prepared to make them the mother they should have or to make him the wife he should have until she has learned more of her world.
The Doll's House is a satire against keeping a woman in ignorance, or the old belief that a woman is all right provided her husband is well informed. The husband may be in the condition Helmer was in, so near to death's door that he cannot be communicated with, and the father may be on his deathbed, or even dead, as Nora's father was at the time she needed his help. Ibsen has been careful to give us a situation where both the husband and the father are unable to give the woman advice, and as a consequence, she disobeys the law and becomes liable to a severe penalty because of her ignorance, which this time means a lack of knowledge of the law.
Questions
1. What opportunities offered women of today make it possible for them to keep out of Nora's difficulties?
2. Do you think Nora was justified in feeling that she should be trained to be a real companion to her husband?
3. What characteristics of Torvald Helmer made him shrink from assuming Nora's guilt, as she believed, at first, that he would?
4. Do you think it was natural for Nora to refuse to be friendly with her husband after he had spoken to her the harsh words that he did speak?
LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
Lesson 15. Present Status of Our Knowledge of Education.
(Based on Part 3, "The Child, His Nature and His Needs.")
226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
(Note: One of our colleagues has suggested that our reference to smoking in last month's lesson on "Adolescence" is apt to leave a wrong impression in the minds of some readers. Lest this should happen, we hasten to amplify the statement in Lesson 14 which seems possible of misinterpretation. On page 171 of the Magazine for March, 1929, we make the following statement: "But since cigarette smoking has been popularized and extended?due, by the way, to modern business methods?it is incorrect to assume that the use of the cigarette today is as immoral as it was a generation ago." To this we would add the following qualification: "This, however, is not meant to imply that its use is not as harmful now as it was formerly. We believe that cigarette smoking is just as physically harmful now as it ever was, and that it should be combated by every intelligent means at our command. Perhaps a better way to present this statement would be to say that since cigarette smoking has been popularized and extended?due, by the way, to modern business methods?it is incorrect to assume that the use of the cigarette in the world, today, is as immoral as it was a generation ago." In affirming our belief in the Church stand on this point, we can do no more than call attention to the revelation given through Joseph, the Seer, at Kirtland, Geauga County, Ohio, February 27, 1833, which reads: "And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. * * * And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones, and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; and I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them."?Doc. And Cov., Section 89, Verses 8 and 18-21.)
A. The Gap Between our Knowledge of Education and our Educational Practice
This chapter (16), written by John J. Tigert, formerly United States Commissioner of Education, discusses a problem that is little understood and still less appreciated by the average American citizen. The discrepancy between educational needs and educational practice becomes apparent when one considers the failure of the public school (a) to systematically train for
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 227
character development, (b) to deal with the sex life of the child, (c) to cope with the problems of vocational guidance and vocational education, (d) to prepare children for the constructive use of their leisure time, and (e) to train them for citizenship.
B. The Reasons for a Gap Between Educational Theory and Practice
Obviously, the main reason for a gap between educational theory and practice is the fact of social change. Schools can hardly anticipate social change, at least as they are organized at present. The very best they can do at the present is to keep abreast of social change. The more education becomes formalized, on the one hand, and the more rapid is the social change on the other, the wider, of course, becomes the gap between educational needs and educational practice.
The author of this chapter has analyzed very effectively the main reasons why practice lags behind knowledge in education. To this list, however, might very well be added two or three other more or less related causes. In the first place, education has not been characterized by the superior leadership that has characterized, for instance, commerce and trade. Other things being equal, young men and women will more often choose business, law, medicine, etc., in preference to teaching. The reason for this, of course, is not hard to see. The financial rewards in such fields as medicine, business, law, etc., are far more attractive than in education. This condition is largely responsible for the lack of leadership which in general has characterized educational work in this country, at least. The result is that education has been deprived of a good deal of the vision and vigor that it would otherwise possess.
The limitations of educational practice are, of course, somewhat of a reflection of our prevailing social attitudes and something of an indication of the relative importance of our social values. In the United States, particularly, commerce and trade have assumed supreme command of our life and thinking. Education, character and other "higher wants" inevitably suffer when our values become thus reversed. (This, of course, is not meant to disparage commerce and industry. The implication is, merely, that education and other non-profit-making enterprises which promote the "good life" will have to be more liberally subsidized in order to compete with modern business in attracting men and women of superior ability.)
C. Education is Becoming a Science
An activity is scientific when it reduces the element of chance and substitutes precision and certainty therefor. A subject is
228 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
scientific when it is characterized by rules or principles which are objective and verifiable; that is, when whoever applies them will obtain uniform, predictable results.
The reason for this scientific movement in education is the need for eliminating waste and increasing efficiency of the educational process in general. Concretely, this scientific tendency is producing a re-examination of many procedures and traditional practices which are at present the very warp and woof of school work. The re-examination of the curriculum, for instance, and the re-classification of pupils, are cases in point.
One of the most definite evidences of this scientific tendency in modern education is the highly successful practice of measuring the results of instruction. It is no longer necessary, for instance, to guess at the effectiveness of a teacher's instruction in the matter of reading, arithmetic, writing, spelling, geography, composition, etc. Objective tests, yielding quantitative scores are now used systematically in most modern schools in these and other subjects.
In addition to the tendency of teachers' colleges and a number of the wealthy school districts (e. g. Winnetka) to set up laboratory schools for the purpose of trying out new ideas in education, there has developed a tremendous interest in educational research and investigation. The larger school systems employ assistant superintendents and other administrative heads who are highly trained in the technique of research. These and other concrete applications of the scientific spirit and the scientific method in education will, in a short space of a few years, guarantee a more efficient system of education; one which is more likely to keep abreast of contemporary social life than has ever been true in the past.
For the Further Stimulation of Thought
1. Why does public education "necessarily lag behind" social life?
2. What reasons other than those mentioned by the author and in this lesson can you give why practice lags behind knowledge in education in your community?
3. Should a state superintendent of public instruction be elected or appointed? Why? How is it done in your state?
4. What are the provisions of the Smith-Hughes Act? How has your state participated in the provisions of this law?
5. What, according to Tigert, has been the greatest drawback to the success of vocational education?
6. Is a complete reorganization of the public schools needed?
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 229
Why? How should this change be brought about? What part and responsibility have a local community in such a change? 7. What is the difference between the German and the American system of public schools? To what extent has the German system of education influenced our own? 8. Why do pupils drop out of school in your community? Has a careful study of this subject ever been made by your local school officials? 9. What is a junior high school? What are its advantages and limitations? 10. Wherein is it correct or incorrect to assume that the application of scientific method will alone close the gap between educational theory and educational practice?
Hills
By Christie Lund
God, make me as the hills? Strong, to endure The cold, The bitterness of winter's ruthless winds.
Give me the character To stand Unmoved, unweakened By the friendly summer sun.
Give me the courage To face adversity? Flaunting my colors high, Like hills when summer dies.
Yet, more than all Give me a glad, young heart That, spite of winter snows, And summer suns, Looks up and sings As the eternal, flower-strewn April hills.

VOL. XVI APRIL, 1929 NO. 4 Tue FouNnTAIN OF THE VIRGIN, IN NAZARETH THE Relief Society Magazine Vou. XVI APRIL, 1929 No. 4 My Ideal Third Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxe; Snow Poetry Contest By Mrs. Elsie Parton, New South Wales, Australia No canyon grand or mountain peak, Bright flow'ry dell, or willowed creek, No eerie scene where fairies bathe 'Neath mossy banks in forest glade Holds my ideal. It is not held in silver note Of music sweet, from singer's throat. Nor setting sun, whose crimson hue a i like blood the western blue, Holds my ideal. But wrinkled cheek, once bright and red, Now pale and worn, its bloom long fled, Dear toil-worn hands, once smooth and white. That always guided me aright— Holds my ideal. Battered with time and years of care, With faltering step and silver hair; Deep-furrowed brow o'er eyes that shine With tender love as they meet mine— Holds my ideal. I'arth's greatest heroes pass away; Kingdoms vanish in a day; jut high where nothing can compare My mother stands exalted there, As my ideal. The Letter and the Spirit By Elder Orson F, Whitney, of the Council of the Twelve "The letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life."—1 Cor. 3:6. How prone we are, when studying the Scriptures or other sacred teachings, to tie ourselves down to the letter of what has been written or spoken, regarding too little the Spirit that indited it and is alone capable of interpreting or making it plain. "Eye hath not seen, ear hath not heard," says Paul— referring of course to the natural eye, the natural ear, and the inability of such organs to see or hear heavenly things. "But," adds the Apostle, "God hath revealed them unto us by his Ri the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God." As an example of the letter requiring interpretation by the Spirit, let us first consider this passage from Genesis: "So God created man in his own image; in the image of God created He him; male and female created He them." (Gen. 1:27.) To the casual reader this might imply that God is both male and female—a bi-sexual being. But we know better, having been correctly taught. We know that God is "an exalted Man" who "sits enthroned in yonder heavens." (I quote from the Prophet Joseph Smith.) The male, not the female of the human species, is in the image or likeness of the Eternal Father. But, "In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare. Truth is reason—truth eternal Tells me I've a Mother there." So says the poet-prophetess, Eliza R. Snow, in her immortal invocation to the Eternal Father and Mother. What is that glorious hymn but an example of the Spirit interpreting the Letter?—the Spirit of Truth—the "secret something" that whispered to her of her heavenly origin. It was in the image or likeness of the Eternal Mother that woman was created. The Creator was speaking of man in the generic sense—mankind—when He said, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." "The man is not without the woman, nor the woman without the man, in the Lord." Wedded, they are as ne the two together constituting the unit of the race. A too rigid manerenice to the letter of the Mosaic Law, THE LETTER AND THE SPIRIT 177 and a bigoted contempt for the Gospel or Higher Law, caused the Pharisees and Sadducees to reject the Messiah. They professed to revere Moses and the Prophets, but being without the Spirit that illumines and gives life to the letter, they failed to see clearly the meaning of the Mosaic Code and the Book of Prophecy. For instance, they thought it a sin to do any work on the Sabbath day, and found fault with the Savior for healing the sick on that day. "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath,' He told them, and further confounded and angered them by declaring: "It is lawful to do good on the Sabbath day,'"—meaning, of course, if necessary, as when food is prepared "in singleness of heart," to sustain the body while keeping the Sabbath or otherwise worshiping the Lord. To paraphrase His own illustration: If an ox has fallen into the ditch and needs instant help, it is lawful to extend that help, even though it be on the Sabbath day. These and like teachings, reflecting the highest wisdom and the soundest common sense, sealed the doom of the sinless Son of God. His enemies invoked the letter of the law against the One who had given that law ages before, and because He, by the Spirit, now taught a higher law—the time being ripe for it—He was condemned and crucified. Next, let us take the case of the Christian Church in the early centuries after the age of the Apostles, when uninspired teachers, aiming to interpret the letter without the Spirit, led the flock astray. Among other things, they misinterpreted the Eucharist or Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. "Eat—this is my body." ''Drink—this is my blood." So the Savior is represented as saying of the bread and wine blessed by Him and given to his Apostles on the night before his crucifixion. But is it a true translation? When Jesus introduced the same ordinance among the Nephites He was more explicit, saying "This shall ye do in remembrance of my body" and "in remembrance of my blood which I have shed for you." (Book of Mormon—3 Nephi 18:7-11.) A clearer idea of the Sacrament and its purpose is thus given. | But suppose He did say to the Apostles: "This is my body and my blood"? The Spirit that was in them #hade plain the Master's meaning. He could not have meant that the bread was indeed his body, or the wine his blood; for his body was then intact, unbroken—He was speaking to them out of it. And his blood was in his veins, yet unspilt. His true disciples, in all ages, when partaking of the Sacrament worthily, receive of his Spirit, which is the food of their spirits, the power by which they grow and become strong. But they do not chew his flesh nor drink his blood. If He really said, "This is my body,—this is my blood," it was only a short way 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of saying what He intended. He was not speaking literally; He was using a metaphor, an implied comparison, a common custom with Orientals. But after the Apostles had departed, and uninspired leaders arose, the opposite or literal view was taken, and by their faulty interpretation millions of souls have been misled. We can and should respect their sincerity, but we cannot accept or approve their doctrine. It is always right to be sincere, but sincerity is not always right. Another case in point. John the Apostle wrote, or is supposed to have written: "No man hath seen God at any time." (John 1:18.) How are we to understand that, granting it to be a correct translation?—for we are under no obligation to believe even the Bible except in-so-far as it has been translated correctly. Did not Adam see God? Did not Enoch walk with God? Did not Jehovah appear to Abraham? Did not Moses, Aaron, Nadab and Abihu and seventy of the Elders of Israel go up into the mountain and see the God of Israel? The Bible says so, and modern revelation confirms it. Did not the Apostles see Jesus Christ, in whom "dwelt the fulness of the Godhead bodily?" Was He not "the Word that was God" and was "made flesh" and dwelt among them, that they might see Him? John himself declares it (John I 1, 14); and yet is made to say, in the very same connection, "No man hath seen God at any time." What then? Shall we cling to the letter of that one statement, and ignore all that went before it, both history and doctrine? Why, it would tear out the foundations of the Christion religion. It would blot out all the Gospel dispensations and destroy every hope of salvation. No, let us put life into the dead letter, and make it read as it ought to read. And how ought it to read? Moses virtually decides, the question in saying: "Now mine own eyes have beheld God; but not my natural, but my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld; for I should have withered and died in his presence; ' but his glory was upon me; and I beheld his face, for I was@ransfigured before him." (Pearl of Great Price—Moses 1:11.) Thus the wrinkle is smoothed out. "No man"'—with his natural eyes—'"hath seen God at any time." Or, as our own revered Prophet puts it: "No man hath seen God at any time in the flesh, except quickened by the Spirit of God" (Doc. And Cov. 67:11)—-which means precisely the same thing. In Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice" Shylock demands the literal fulfillment of the bond that Antonio has forfeited, and insists upon his "pound of flesh, to be by him cut off near- THE LETTER AND THE SPIRIT 179 est the merchant's heart." Portia, pleading for Antonio, entreats the Jew to be merciful. "Upon what compulsion must I?" he asks. Then Portia: "The quality of mercy is not strain'd: It droppeth, as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath; it is twice bless'd; It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes; Tis mightiest in the mightiest; it becomes The throned monarch better than his crown. His sceptre shows the force of temporal power, The attribute to awe and majesty,. Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings; But mercy is above this sceptred sway, It is enthroned in the hearts of kings, It is an attribute to God himself; And earthly power doth then show likest God's When mercy seasons justice." This plea, so sublime in letter and in spirit, having failed to melt the hard-hearted money-lender, Portia next reads into the bloodthirsty bond an interpretation so literal that it completely baffles the cruel and vindictive schemer, takes him in his own snare, and rescues the merchant from his peril. It was a triumph of letter over letter, one might say. But it was also a triumph of the Spirit. There are times, however, when the Letter almost crowds the Spirit off the platform. Here is an instance. A pious father was taking to task his little son for uncharity; the boy having angrily expressed himself over some wrong, real or fancied, done him by another. "You shouldn't talk that way about your little playmate," said the father, "haven't you thought how you might heap coals of fire on his head?" "No," said the boy, "I hadn't thought of it, but it's a peach of an idea." The young Shylock! Many things are implied that are not expressed; what is told being suggestive and inclusive of the untold. In the revelations of God given to the Church in these days, the chewing or smoking of tobacco is inhibited; but that does not leave morphine unbanned. The "dope fiend" is also a breaker of the Word of Wisdom. Again, the excessive or untimely use of "the fowls of the air" for food, is discountenanced; but the fowls of the barnyard, though unmentioned, are not omitted, but are included by implication. Gluttony is a vice, as well as drunkenness, no matter what the gourmand gorges himself upon. All excesses are hurtful to health, whether or not they be "nominated in the bond." All are infractions of divine law, the intent of which (as in human law) should 180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE always be weighed and considered—not the letter alone. In "seeking for wisdom out of the best of books," as we have been commanded, we need the Holy Spirit as an interpreter, lest we blunder and go astray. The letter, alone, is an insufficient guide. Like "faith without works," it is dead." But the Spirit cannot err. The letter, with the conflicting interpretations put upon it, is responsible for disputations and contentions, against which we are solemnly warned. By the letter we are divided. By the Spirit we see eye to eye, and are made acceptable to Him who has said: "Except ye are one, ye are not mine." Le Printemps (The Springtime) By Brooks Kairn I dipped with eager pen to write of spring Then thought me of the cynic's grating words, "How now, another poetaster bent On gushing of the bumble-bee and birds?" "Write on!' a milder voice bade teasingly; "For poesy was born of such as this— Of stream and tree—the morning's early glow, Cold loam's awakening at Springtime's kiss. Sing on with words to match the lark's clear note— In lines full patterned to the bluebird's wing, Imprison tulip's grace within your rhyme And joyfulness of warbler's caroling. Weave deftly golden strands of prismic light In this, your tapestry. Let there be hint Of brocklet's dashing play on mossy rocks— The green of pristine leaf caught in Sol's glint. Attune this theme you'd pen of brighter days To fragrance of the dew-pearled mountain flower, Blend carefully your verse to fleece-blown cloud Revealed in cameo on turquoise bower. All these, and more. String then your modest lyre; Seek out the kindred pipes of elfin Pan; Send forth this gladsome melody of Spring—: Rejoicing in a wise Creator's plan." What it Means to Understand Religion By A. C, Lambert "Until man becomes either a lotus-eater or a God he will believe and pray and worship. So long as man remains man, 'who partly is and wholly hopes to be,' he will be incurably religious." So long as men refuse to turn their backs on the great adventure of living; so long as men refuse to admit that fear cowardice, and self-seeking can permanently dominate personality; so long as men refuse to turn their faces from the search for good, which is found in the life of God revealed to men— just so long will religion remain. For religion is the way of spiritual self-fulfillment. It is the way in which men find the ultimate significance of life's practices and beliefs when life and the world are interpreted as a whole. Though religion has been most variously defined, its continuing reality as a human experience and an integral part of human living must be recognized. Demonstration of the validity of the fact of religious experience comes through examination of the observable experiences and practices of human beings. Demonstration of the value of religious experiences is found in the feeling life of innumerable human beings. Demonstration of the ultimate truthfulness of religious doctrines and practices comes through (1) acceptance by individuals and groups of revelations from God, and pronouncements of those authorized to speak for God, (2) recognition of their consistency with other accepted truths empirically established, (3) recognition of their demonstrated power to reconstruct human lives and human institutions in directions universally recognized as "better" and good, and (4) their felt value to the individual. Any one of the four methods gains strength when supplemented by all the others. The ultimate key to a real understanding of any religion is to feel it. That means more than to secure a knowledge of its doctrines, its theology, its ritual, its ethical and moral precepts, its ecclesiastical organization and machinery, its sacred shrines and its temples; for these, though inherently necessary, are but the body of the religion, and not its life-blood; its externals, not its reality. A religion to be understood and to be appreciated as a 182 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE driving power to spiritual self-realization must, in some degree, be experienced. Really to understand a religion one must put himself in the place of the believers and practicers of that religion. He must have been troubled as they have been troubled. He must have struggled for spiritual light and growth as they have struggled. He must have felt God's presence as they have felt it. He must have risen through belief from sin and despair as they have risen. He must have suffered as they have suffered. He must have conquered as they have conquered. Short of this, no one may adequately understand a religious system or a great religious life. But with understanding can come appreciation of religion as a fundamental and natural expression of life. With understanding comes less bitterness in criticism of dogma and practice. With understanding comes more intelligent toleration and cooperation between individuals whose creed, ritual, and symbols take different forms. Ultimately, truth is individual truth. Many truths of religion may be demonstrable truths; and in order to be universally or generally accepted, they must be such truths. Empirical method is one method of demonstrating truth, and it has proved its value and place as an instrument and a creation of human thought. But ultimately, truth in religion, like truth in knowledge, is felt truth. Truth and knowledge come to be demonstrated, accepted, and depended upon, by reason of the general and continuing uniformity in the way human beings think and feel about it. Let men not delude themselves in thinking that they think beyond thought. It is, therefore, perhaps true that much of religion must remain sacredly intimate and individual. That fact need not weaken the fundamental significance of religion as a general human experience and a valuable possession for group preservation. Rather it should make men think more deeply on their own true selves, perchance to learn anew the worth of faith in human life, perchance to learn again that truth itself has many sides, that values have no meaning unless felt by human souls, and that striving after God brings light and life and hope, and in the end makes better men. In learning of all this, we come more adequately to understand religion. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - S - C President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - -:: - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD -: - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND -:: = General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs, Lotta Paul Baxter Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrg, Elise B. Alder Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Barbara Howell RichardsMrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs, Kate M. Barker. Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - - - - - - - ALIceE Louise REYNOLDS Manager - - - -: -: - - Louise Y. Rosison Assistant Mataeer - -: - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL, XVI APRIL, 1929 No. EDITORIAL > | The First Editor On the 8th day of April, 1929, Lula Greene Richards will commemorate her 80th birthday. She was the first editor of the Woman's Exponent, and the Magazine rejoices to be able to congratulate her at this time. She began her editorial duties before her marriage and continued them for a short time afterwards. Ever since the day when: she turned her work over to Emmeline B. Wells, her writings have appeared in Church magazines. The ability to do things artistic may develop in children in different lines of art. This was true in the case of Robert Browning and his wife Elizabeth Barrett Browning who were poets; their son is a sculptor. Mrs. Richards has sons with literary ability, those who write both prose and poetry, but perhaps her best known son is Lee Greene, a well known painter, particularly of portraits. We congratulate Mrs. Richards on the fact that her 80th year finds her in reasonably good health, with exceptional mental vigor for one of her advanced age; also with an amount of optimism that is truly refreshing. She has undoubtedly known trials. One of her refinement could not escape suffering yet she loves her fellow men, she loves her Father in Heaven, and in this age of skepticism when everything is being questioned, 184 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Gospel lamp is the guide to her feet. She has joy in the testimony of the divinity of Christ and the sure knowledge ot the Resurrection; as, to use her own words, "she draws nearer to the fullness of His peace." The Seventieth Birthday of President Clarissa S. Williams The Magazine rejoices to be able to congratulate President Clarissa Smith Williams on her seventieth birthday, which falls on the 2lst day of April, 1929. On that day the hearts of thousands will turn towards her in appreciation of her kindly ministrations extending over a very active and useful life. In the minds of those who know her best, memories, sweet and precious will arise, evoking from the hearts of all her friends tenderness and love. They will wish that, as the days come and go, she may be a special charge of divine providence; that her health may be good, her happiness secure, and that, in the mercy of heaven, no good thing may be withheld from her. Showers, showers, of blessings we would call down upon her. We commend her at all times to the loving care of the Most High, who knows the righteousness of her heart and what a benediction her life has been to all among whom she has labored. May it be our Father's will to extend her life as long as she finds joy and satisfaction therein, with her children, her children's children, her many friends, and this good earth upon which her lot has been serenely cast. Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Honored The President's suite in the Hotel Utah was: the scene of another festive occasion on Wednesday, february 20th, when a dinner was given to honor three Board Members, but particularly to take note of the services of Sister Jennie B. Knight, first counselor to President Clarissa Smith Williams during the period of her presidency and now a member of the General Board. The committee consisted of Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, Mrs. Emma A. Empey and Mrs. Amy W. Evans. Corsage bouquets were placed at the covers of Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, Miss Alice L. Reynolds, and Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, in recognition of the cordial welcome and hospitality extended to Board Members during the recent Leadership Week held at the Brigham Young University. The dinner was arranged especially to give the Board Members an opportunity to express appreciation to Sister Knight. To this end, all the Board Members paid her tribute EDITORIAL 185 and were exceedingly happy for the opportunity. Some did it through the: medium of stories which were part of Sister Knight's history, and some through tributes to her sterling qualities. The dinner was arranged by Mrs. Emma A. Empey and presided over by President Louise Y. Robison. It was an occasion of festive cheer and good will. Mrs. Knight was presented with a book in a beautiful leather cover resembling Roycroft work—a book that can be used by her for her notes when she goes out to conventions or on any occasion when she wishes to use it. The presentation speech was made by Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter, who in fitting words expressed the appreciation of the Board to Sister Knight and their devotion to her. The Centenary of the Organization of the Church We are just one year from the centenary of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It will be the privilege of all organizations connected with the Church during the next year to demonstrate what the output of this great spiritual movement has been. This demonstration may be carried on in many ways. Art is one of the mediums of expression: it is possible to employ art in public addresses, poetry, essays, dramas, music, painting, sculpture, pageantry, as well as in exhibitions of scientific, industrial and economic achievements. This, year may be one of assembling and of arranging many things, to the end that all shall be in readiness for the centenary in April, 1930. The Relief Society will have its place and in a variety of ways be able to demonstrate and review the story of its growth and achievements, establishing thereby its worth as a great welfare organization. Editor's Note Mrs. Julina Green is the author of the poem, "A Reverie' which was published in the March number of the Magazine. It is regretted that her name did not appear with the poem, as its author. | The Ugly Duckling By Estelle Webb Thomas IT. December 25-—-or 26—1 a. M.—Just slipped a bath-robe over my night gown to keep from freezing, and a cap over my marcell to keep from spoiling it (the things are expensive), and am sitting up in bed to write till I get sleepy, which time isn't far distant. Quite an interesting Christmas day for a lone, lorn Ugly Duckling! After my light lunch, I put on my new tan suit, and made a few calls as per schedule. Had several invitations to stay with people, but declined them all as I want to rest and relax this holiday and not be obliged to wear my pleasant expression all the time—too much like school. When I reached home in the early dusk, I found a funny old creature camped on the front step, who said that she had been over three times, and the last time "jest set down to wait till I did come!'" She brought a little note from Mrs. Douglas, next door, saying that she was a good friend, though a recent one, of mother's; and as her son had told her that I was all alone in the house, she, had taken the liberty of asking me to dine with them this evening. Mrs. Douglas proved to be a delightful old lady and put me at my ease at once, especially as the son was not present at first. As she made no reference to our little escapade, I presumed he had not mentioned it. He came in from the street in a few minutes and greeted me pleasantly but formally as the old servant came in to announce dinner. They are the sort of people who can be entertaining, and still make a guest feel interesting and at his best, too. When dinner was over, Mrs. Douglas begged to be excused, as she invariably retires immediately after dinner, and she "was sure Donovan would do his best to entertain me." I was surprised to see "Donovan" unconcernedly lift the old lady in his arms (I had noticed that she was very lame), and after asking me to excuse him for a moment, walk calmly and easily up the stairs with her. He was back immediately and suggested that we "step out' as the evening was still young. So we saw "Charlie's Aunt," played by a bunch of High School kids in the H. S. Auditorium. Mr. Douglas suggested a dance afterward—there was one in progress at Daly's Movie Palace, but J 188 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE felt he had sufficiently atoned for his last evening's faux pas and said I had rather go home. I preferred to walk too, for the night was clear and starry and beautifully white with snow. Mr. Douglas hesitated after he had said "Good-night," and asked if I wouldn't let him start my fire before he left. I hadn't intended having a fire, but no one will ever know how relieved I was at having someone go in with me and turn on the lights. Goodness knows, I'm not a coward; but there's something about going into a dark, empty house—! Well, the upshot of it was, that we passed a most interesting hour before the fire, with some of mother's fruit-cake, and my home-smoked cocoa for refreshment. When he finally left we had a good many side-lights on each other's history and felt quite like old friends. December 27—-Had lunch today with Sally Turner, who used to be the class ninny, but who now has me bested by the possession of a cute little house, a set of new furniture, and a husband. This latter appeared to be sometihng she has picked up at a bargain sale—cheap; but she is satisfied, and fairly exuded pity at my unattached state. "You'll never know what happiness is, Daisy," she gushed, till you have a loving husband and a dear little nest of your own." I was trying to walk this off when I ran plump into Mr. Douglas, hurrying along with a pre-occupied frown on his brow and a suit-case in his hand. "Why the savage expression?" he asked by way of greeting, though I had not known I was showing my vexation so openly. "Only an over-dose of the sunny side of life," I replied, trying to look more amiable than I felt. "Come with me and I'll give you a view of the seamy side," said my new friend, taking my arm and turning me gently about as he spoke, "Only I'm late and in a pow'ful hurry, as Janet says; so if you don't mind we'll have a walking contest! That is," he added, "unless you have other plans." I was curious about his "seamy side" of life until he explained that he is a doctor, newly arrived and trying to build up a practice by unfailing interest and promptness. As old Dr. Halley has no financial necessity for work and has become so cross and crochety that people would almost rather die by themselves than disturb his nights, I foresee a successful future for young Dr. Douglas in our town and told him so. He seemed pleased and told me he had had a chance to take over his father's practice in a large Eastern town at the time of his recent death, but had decided to come west for the sake of his mother's failing health, and sincerely hoped he would be able to make a "go" of it. The Doctor's mother came too, and while he attended the "flu" THE UGLY DUCKLING 189 patients to whom he had been making daily visits for a week, though there was nothing in it for him but getting a practice established, his mother explained, she descanted on the perfections of her handsome son; much to his discomfiture, I could see, when he caught the drift of her confidences. Running down presently on the subject of Donovan, she began to ask me a few polite questions. Mother and the professor called, and mother had been in a number of times; but they had been in town only two months, and knew so few people? She asked about my sisters, and my name. "Margaret!" she repeated, when IJ told her, "Why, that is the name of the girl Donovan is going to marry! Do you hear that, Don? You'll enjoy calling Miss Wallace Margaret, won't you, dear?" T hastened to explain that I am always called Daisy; and Mr. Douglas remarked a trifle dryly that he had hardly got to the stage of calling me Margaret, yet. As most of his visits were to flu patients and the doctor advised tus to stay in the open air, I learned something of Margaret, the fiance. She was the daughter of an old and valued friend, and it had been the desire of Donovan's father's heart as well as of Margeret's father that the two should eventually marry: The engagement had made Donovan's father very happy, coming as it did during his last long illness, when he was worrying about Don's future, and when Margaret was so kind and attentive to the bed-fast old friend. Don had been inclined to be a trifle wild—not bad, of course —just gay and reckless; but his father's death had sobered him wonderfully and he had become as steady as his father himself. And as thoughtful of her. I rather hoped the doctor would come in when he brought me home, but he very formally took his leave at the front door. Perhaps the thought of the absent fiance is haunting him, and he feels he shouldn't be so nice to every Ugly Duckling he meets. I confess the absent Margaret rather spoiled the picture for me. And I'm going straight to sleep and not weave a single romance around a tall dark-eyed young doctor with an interesting name. January 1—I threw the diary in a corner when I finished writing last time and only resurrected and dusted it off again tonight to finish recording this episode before going back to school tomorrow. The day after my last entry the doctor was called out of town, and didn't get back until last evening. I passed several very dull days calling and receiving callers, dining with friends and going to movies, and wishing heartily for the time to come when I must go back to work. Janet came over to ask me to dinner with Mrs. Douglas yesterday, and volunteered the information that the doctor is gone and his mother was lonely. 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was really relieved that the doctor was away. I had thought he was purposely avoiding me, and felt furiously angry at myself at snapping up so eagerly the little crumbs of companionship he had offered me, as if I never had had any attention before. But since he was gone I could go to dinner with his mother without any sacrifice of pride; so to please her I got myself up in my very best bib and tucker and went over early, resolved to be as amusing. As possible and try to pay some of my debt of gratitude for their kindness. But dinner was barely commenced when in walked Dr. Douglas! How dreadful I felt! The conceited thing had been so cool to me that last evening, and now to find me hanging around his mother, as if waiting meekly for him to return, was too provoking! I hurried home as soon as I decently could, but the doctor insisted on coming with me, and seemed rather offended when I refused to let him come in and make a fire. I told him I was leaving on the six-thirty train, and intended going straight to bed, and really enjoyed his unmistakable look of disappointment. So that's the last of Dr. Donovan Douglas, so far as I am concerned, and after tomorrow my contacts will be with the Primary Department of the Green Valley school and Mr. Dixon, principal of same. January 5—Mrs. Lowell's Up-Stairs Left-Hand* Bedroom.— Well, back again, ready to deal out knowledge in large doses to my young hopefuls. Arrived cold and weary last evening at nine o'clock in a veritable blizzard. Quite a price to pay for the privilege of spending Christmas all by myself in a deserted house! But that is unkind. The Douglases made it as pleasant as possible, and contrary to my last statement in my diary, I hadn't seen the last of Dr. Douglas, on New Year's night. When I came down the steps in the dim, gray early morning there stood the Doctor's car with the Doctor in it, waiting to drive me to the station. I felt an over-whelming sense of obligation and tried to tell him so, but he only smiled and replied with a look in his handsome brown eyes that made me turn my own away, that perhaps I could return the favor sometime. There was no time for conversation for we were barely in time, but as Dr. Douglas hurried me into the car and my suit-case after me, he asked if he might write. So there's that to look forward to when the children get too dumb, and life looks too drab. January 8—One week of the second semester gone. The children were little fiends after their week of merry-making, late hours, and too much candy. I should have sent the whole roomful in to Mr. Dixon en masse, I was so provoked one afternoon, if he had not looked so harassed with his own set of young ideas. I have been so busy with my own private problems that Mr. Dixon had failed to make much impression on me before; but today I got to wondering what his story is—perhaps something THE UGLY DUCKLING 191 interesting enough for one of my romances, For that's my secret ambition. I'm trying to write—and making a sad failure so far. I believe I might be able to accomplish something at it if my time were my own, but if I get out of bed just teeming with bright ideas the school-bell is sure to ting disgustingly early; and by the time I am free again, every bit of inspiration has fled. Then if I plan a quiet evening at my scribbling, Mrs. Lowell is sure to get up some sort of "Do," and insist on "teacher" coming clown to be the life of the party. But I am not going to give up till I find, like Joe, whether "genius burns" or not. Still, if I devote all my spare time to this Journal, what is to become of my "literary career?" Haven't heard from "anybody" at home, but had a letter from mother saying that Lisbeth is much better, and she and the professor will be home in another week. Easter Thoughts Elsie E. Barrett Glad Easter Morn'. Break forth in song! Sing praises to your King! The clouds of doubt have rolled away, And death has lost its sting. How soul-inspiring just to think That Jesus died for me; So wonderful to have the thought That He'll provide for me; That He has risen from the tomb For such as I—robbed death of gloom. O Jesus, help my faith to grow, Help me to feel my debt; Though I can never, never pay, Help me, lest I forget. Elvira Lathrop By Fay Ollerton Elvira Lathrop did not go back to the store that afternoon before Thanksgiving. She hurried back and forth in her adobe house with its lean-to, getting the rooms cleaned in preparation for her absence tomorrow. Alone she still had the stooped gait of a woman whose head had first leaned forward in expectancy, then drooped with resentment, and later grown careless. She was a spinster in a town of almost unanimously married women, and she had grown to show a surface acceptance in her kindly timid eyes of being the butt of Red Water's jokes on feminism. The Co-op's superintendent, Hans Nielson, knew that the next day was the yearly gathering of the Lathrop clan, and that Elvira would value the extra time. He could, she realized, be generous when it did not inconvenience him, and there would be few customers that afternoon; they would be home cleaning turkeys and chickens, baking pumpkin pies, and dusting rooms only opened for great occasions. "I feel like maybe you would want this afternoon to make a potato cake," he teased, showing his yellow teeth. She nodded back, pleased in spite of her dislike for the sleek little superintendent. She did not like his patronizing smile; every time he spoke she felt more poignantly than ever her thin spinsterhood, now growing into its forties; and her fight to retain her self-expression in the little sage-brush town with its red streets and its open contempt for any unwanted woman. Yet, she was flattered about the potato cake. His mention showed that the town recognized her supremacy in one line usually dedicated to wearers of the ring. Every person must have some reason for existing, outside of the mere routine of eating and sleeping, something no matter how small that he feels he can do better than his fellows, that he can use as a barricade against the forces that would level him with the rest of his creatures. Potato cake was Elvira's weapon in Red Water's battle. No wedding supper, no pioneer day celebration, canyon outing, or woodhauler's banquet was complete without this cake. Not another woman in town could compete in the rich, moist brownness and delectable flavor of her masterpiece. Husbands invariably called for more. Often they turned to their wives with: 'Why can't you make cake like this? I wish you'd get Elviry's receipt." And their failure to get the recipe was in no way due to their lack of zeal. They had tried, after Elvira had first produced her ELVIRA LATHROP 193 triumph, but ineffectually. All she told them was that a friend of hers in Salt Lake had obtained the recipe from an English aunt. The shy woman had found the sweet pleasure of excelling and she guarded her secret well. If Red Water's housekeepers had been more in touch with the world that lay beyond their sagebrush trails and low, red hills; if they had subscribed for women's magazines now becoming practical, or even bought cook books, they might have found a potato cake recipe similar to Elvira's, but they went on handing down cooking rules from mother to daughter, and exchanging methods over back fences and at Relief Society quilting bees. Some of the wives, spurred on by their husbands, had taken recourse to experimentation; their delvings into the realms of science were sorry failures. Because their "menfolks" liked the cake, they called for it on every occasion, and Elvira would come home, her tight little heart that was carefully schooled against emotion, warmed and expanded. At such times she would chat brightly with her taciturn brother, Ward, who was a bachelor. "You ought to have been there, Ward," she would say to the tall, spare man sitting in front of the box stove with his stockinged feet resting on the red checkered tablecloth; "they had some right nice speeches and music, and the supper was real good." Ward would lift his somber eyes from the. Semi-weekly he was all week reading to say in his halting voice: "I'm glad, Elviry, that you enjoyed it," and relapse into silence again; but he knew that someone had been exuberant in his praise of the cake. It meant a great deal to his sister, this family reunion. Some twenty years ago Elvira's skin had been smooth and clear and faintly touched with pink; her light brown hair had curled over her high forehead instead of being drawn back in its tight grayness, and she had been in love with Eric Kelner, now married to her cousin, Delia Lathrop. There had been no formal announcement; that was not Red Water's custom even now in the beginning of the second decade, but the town had known there was something serious between the two. Had he not taken Elvira to Sunday night Mutuals for two years past, ever since she had returned from the Academy at Provo, to care for her declining mother? And had he not been seen walking home from Lathrop's on wintry days with books that Elvira had loaned him? Summer evenings, too, when the fragrance of freshly cut alfalfa and garden flowers vied with the sage and rabbit brush for supremacy in the breezes, they had gone buggy riding in the weedy and brush-lined streets towards the meadows on the south, or to the East canyon. And Elvira, who had been working in the Co-op store for a year, was known to be putting away material for sheets and _tablecloths. This last alone would have been proot sufficient for any 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fown; and in Red Water no one left his back door ajar but the neighbors knew the reason. Girl, and at the height of her timid rage, Elvira had left the dance hall afone, and her lover in willing hands. Later she blamed Delia entirely. How could gentle, awkward Eric, who had lived more fact! And in her stupid pride, Elvira had continued to leave Not knowing how to forget, or to substitute, which is much the same thing, Elvira had grown thin, gaunt-eyed, and more retiring. She was already looking old when next spring Eric returned of giving a linen tablecloth to a mere cousin. As time passed, it pained her to see that Eric no longer had time to read, or to ELVIRA LATHROP 195 think of the school plans they had talked about. He was a busy man now, working his small farm, doing odd jobs of hauling freight and loaning out himself and team to keep Delia supplied with the silk dresses she demanded; her pantry piled with materials for her bounteous table, and later providing for the regularly increasing Kelnars. It did not heal Elvira's wound any to see the ample Delia each year becoming more sharp tongued. She felt too keenly for Eric, unnecessarily stooped and worried looking, and she was growing thinner and worn herself. Yet there were times when she could do something for her old lover and she eagerly anticipated these occasions. There was the annual birthday party for Aunt Sarah, now grown feeble, the Lathrop weddings, the holidays with their interchange of family dinners, and the Thanksgiving reunions, where Eric always sought her for a few minutes of desultory talk, and ate prodigiously of her potato cake. "No one," he often said, "can make such good cakes as you. Elvira. I just wait for these dinners to come," and turning from the glowing spinster to his wife, "Delia is a good cook, but her cakes can't come up to these." Elvira cherished these compliments, even though she knew they were his futile attempts to cover old sorrow, and enjoyed Delia's retort that, "she'd get that receipt or bust." The secret was too much a part of the spinster's self ever to be disclosed now. The coming family reunion was the one oasis in an otherwise arid and disappointing year. Ward, a few years her senior, had been more crippled with rheumatism than was his wont, and had had a hard time harvesting his small crops and hauling in the winter wood from the cedar and pine-covered hills. Wool had shot down in price, until their tiny income from it would not pay for the magazines Elvira subscribed for. The brother was growing more dependent upon her: he had few pleasures, and it had been years since he had mingled in the town activities other than to attend Sacrament and Priesthood meetings. To make matters worse, Elvira was having trouble with her left leg. "You're on it too much. You ought just to sit down and do nothing else for months," old Dr. Dunn had told her. "If you aren't careful, you'll have some serious trouble soon." She knew, too, that Hans had seen her slight limp, and was only waiting for some slacking in her work to take on a younger, prettier girl. "You're not so spry as you used to be, Elviry," he had said only a few days ago. She knew he had in mind his wife's sister, a strong young thing, and pretty in a blousy, coarse way, and who wanted a chance to clerk; but he would not dare to discharge the older woman without some serious reason. The Lathrops were 196 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE too strong in the community; though they were letting their stock in the co-operative store slip to enter other ventures. L'rightened, Elvira had worked when she should have been home asleep. She wondered now as she scurried around in her lowraftered, whitewashed kitchen and gathered her cake materials about her, if Hans had given her the free half-day so: that he could report her inability to work full time. Orderly as always, Elvira placed the ingredients in exact amounts on her brown oilcloth tablecover, and started creaming the butter and sugar. She had no more than begun her strokes when a rap sounded on the kitchen door. Because her hands were dusted with flour, she called, "Come in." Panting and robust, Delia Kelner stood in the doorway, an old brown coat thrown hurriedly over her pink gingham dress. "Hello, Elviry," she called, loudly excited. "I saw your smoke and knew you was home, because Ward is in the cattle pasture. | been waiting to tell you the news!" "What news?' Elvira paused in her creaming. She knew Delia's ways. She was more worried how she could get rid of her cousin, or take her into the front room. The potato cake was too much in evidence. "What news is right, Elviry," the cousin declared, not a whit dampened by the response. She seemed all the more pleased for a chance to extend her climax. She opened her eyes in an attempt to be mysterious, and sat down uninvited in 'Ward's coneress chair. Elvira waited, her hands fluttering helplessly about her work. As if she would burst if she contained her story longer, Delia leaned forward and said in a stage whisper, "Esther's home again, and she ain't alone! She's got a fourth husband, and they say," here the informant lowered her voice, screwed her eyes, into a semi-closing, "they say she's going to bring him to the reunion tomorrow!" She was not disappointed in her climax. Elvira dropped her cake spoon, her eyes and mouth opened wide, and had to catch her gold-rimmed spectacles with trembling hands. "Great Scotland!" was all she could say at first. The spinster was not given to expletives. Esther was a second cousin by marriage, the result of a Lathrop's mesalliance; she was the one unfettered spirit in a long line of staid, emotion bound, and duty thinking citizens that made up the family of Lathrop. Her first husband had died, and six months after his funeral, she had married a young Lathrop who was in the early stages of rebellion against the conventions of his family. But, true to his heritage, he found life with the irrepressible Esther unbearable, and quietly divorced her after two years of misery. Not daunted in any way, Esther had married ELVIRA LATHROP 197 again; this time she did the divorcing herself, and in a day and town where a woman divorced once had as well wear a scarlet letter. Unable at last, to stand the town's and the Lathrop's steady rebuffs, she had gone to a coast city. The mention of her name was always a flagrant signal in Red Water, and her return with a fourth would not diminish the gossip. "When did she come?" the now thoroughly alert Elvira demanded of the righteous Delia.; Delia removed her coat, preparatory to a lengthy stay. 'Why, she come on the stage last night," she began in her high, discordant voice, her deep flesh glowing; while Elvira, all caution forgotten, went on with her creaming, a high spot of color in her sunken cheeks. It had been a long time since she had had a chance to forget herself in a choice bit of gossip. "Eric was up at the post office this morning, and they come right in for their mail. She was just as brazen as anything, introducing him right and left to her 'old friends.' Cousin Tom's wife was there too, and Eric had only started telling me, when she run in with more news. She said that Esther was bragging she'd walk into the Lathrop reunion and give 'em the surprise of their lives." Delia folded her lips into a pudgily tight line. She was the essence of satisfied virtue. By the time she was through with all that she had heard and surmised, the cakes were in the oven and the fire adjusted to their needs. She arose still bristling with importance. I got to be getting on. Old lady Henry's bedridden this week, and ~ I know she'd like to hear about Esther, and then I've got to get home and get supper for Eric and the rest of the family. He's been hauling hay to the cattle pens all day and he'll be hungrier than the threshers." She took up her coat, this time taking care to run her arms through the sleeves. The short November day was fading into a gray evening and the air was chilly. "Tl be seeing you at the Relief Hall when the womenfolks bring over their vittles," she called good-naturedly from the back stoop, and energetically waddled around the graveled path to the unpaved sidewalk, Elvira watched her from the front window, puzzled to see the cousin turning towards home instead of Mrs. Henry's. "T expect she's decided to let the old lady wait," she thought, letting her eyes rest on the dried branches of the still trees. She felt quite kindly towards Delia. Outwardly they had kept up appearances, true to Lathrop traditions, but the old rancor had kept them from becoming intimate in spite of their living but two blocks apart. Later, when the first glow of the gossip had worn off, and she sat in the darkening twilight with the singing kettle, waiting for Ward to return, she wondered if Esther's sudden appearance 198 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE would detract from the coming of her favorite cousin, John Lathrop. John was the son of Jedediah, the oldest member of the clan, and had gone East, to New York, and become so noted in his law profession that his name sometimes appeared in the metropolitan papers. He had come all the way across the continent with his wife, whom none of the family had seen. The cakes had baked without a flaw, and the little spinster was content in her anticipations. Elvira was one of the first to meet at the Hall. She knew that the women depended on her to help with the arrangements and the cooking. They said she was right handy at fixing the flowers—mostly potted plants—and telling the men where to put the chairs and rugs; then there was the paring of the vegetables. Making room for the turkeys, and the dishes, and she didn't have any children to bother her. As she scurried around on her sore leg, helping to place the horsehair sofas, the buttoned leather lounges, and the nondescript rocking chairs, she could not forget her cakes. Her pride in them was almost undecent. Each year she tried to make a different icing. This time the smooth, white surface had an "L" with flourishes in every direction. With that "L" there could be no mistaking her cakes! About one o'clock the families began to assemble. The older ones and a few of the youngest had been to the Thanksgiving services in the Meeting House. The Lathrops were a large and important part of the town, and they all bore the marks of their English and Scotch-Irish ancestry. In their number was Charles K., bald and rotund, and president of the one bank. He drove up in his car, the second one in the town, with instructions for his son Frank to spare no gas when errands were to be run. Then there was Ralph K., also of the older generation, who was stake president and had invited both his counselors and their families. Bishop Madsen had been invited, too, because David Lathrop, just returned from a mission and newly married to Red Water's belle, was his first aid. Lean and lanky Rod, standing six foot two in his bare feet and more typical of the clan than Charles, was there, looking as if the weight of his great sheep herds was more than he could bear. And that was Howard, by the door. Howard, was a younger one and taught school at the State University. All the town was proud of Howard. Wasn't that Ellen, the only business woman in the family, walking in with her husband? She lived in the capital city also. The wives were noisily in evidence; mostly plump they were, except the older Lathrop girls, flushed and energetic. The sunbrowned husbands of the Lathrops stood about, abashed in their Sunday clothes, for all the world as if they were not yet used to contact with the powerful clan. There was no sign of Esther and her fourth. The women glanced apprehensively at the door and There was a hush Over the laughing back-slapping Crowd at his entrance, then a Pleased little burst of welcome, and after that everyone talking at Once. With him was his New York Wife, whose accent they would never forgive, nOr cease in their tay @bout her Ylish Clothes, was tall, distingyj hed with the Straight La TOP nose and rk hair, He had a ways had part of € gracioy dignity that was SO evident no nd hj Pleasure at being }, e w t feigned She Wanted to rush Im, but er Self-consciousness held her back, ne time he ha been er only confid nt, and he W of the Plans she g d Eric had ma IC Was to live With the Cousin, and Elyj; as to Supply Patt of the lend hat for an education could Put his emotions into Words, was the Only help She had accepted, She hated to have him See her a faded Part of the background, Only made welcome because blood tles were no slight thing; She had to Speak to h Ome time €re he Was, smi] NZ in he direction. He brok through he er wd, hin wis Stay cloud; 2 whole SPreading hick 09 es, aware that est silk years behing € Styles, and 0 tables, Concocted of lumber and trestles, Tan the length of the long half, very La TOP, large or Small, was Seated in from the 5 t home fro School be re S linished, F Vira and Ward WETe seated NeXt to Delia and Prawling family and near €nough to 4 John fmlunisce yw banker he two lone embers ate hearty appetites, their Yes opened Wide as ° retain the excitement and genial] Contact nti] a quieter da €r the P came turk Y, Toast pork and beef, Chicken smo hered j flaky tan crust, sa] and veget bles with the dried og Lath MEN spent August days in Paring ip; shivering jellies, Pickles and yelloy rolls, alj shot With the lemon 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE glow of the sun drifting through the newly washed Relief Society curtains. For dessert there was squash pie, piled with whipped cream, plum pudding, and heavily iced cakes, with a special treat of bananas and grapes brought from Salt Lake by John. Elvira was animated with pride when she saw her two cakes, cut in small pieces, the "L" still visible, and topped with red rose buds that had come from Provo only this morning. Eric's voice, made content by the food and companionship, was heard asking if he might have cake before pie or pudding. Happily flushed, she pushed one of her platters his way. Before she could see it reach its destination, John called to her from his seat near the head. Something had reminded him of an experience at the Academy and he wanted to share it with her. _ "Do you know, Elvira," he half shouted above the buzz of Lathrop talk, "that J saw the same Fanny Davis who had a room at our place in Provo on Fifth Avenue a week ago." Flattered, Elvira chatted back, anxious to know why Fanny was in the East, but at the same time straining an ear for Eric's comment. She hoped, too, that John would hear and take pieces for him and his wife. "She and her husband," John was explaining, his long, white fingers stretched on the linen cloth, when she heard Eric addressing the group at large. "Yes sir,' he was saying, "Delia beat Elvira at her own game. She got the receipt to the potato cake, got it made, and you'd better taste it before you go on to the pie." In a daze Elvira looked at the chocolate mound disappearing on Eric's plate, then back to her platter with its festive roses and untouched pieces; and back to Eric's proud gaze and Delia's triumphant one. There could be no mistake; in front of him was a chocolate cake, on a platter not her own and dressed in brown icing. Slowly the color receded from her face and the life from her eyes. They became old and tired and she dared not lift them from her plate. Her work-hardened fingers clutched at the handkerchief in her lap—she wished the table had a leg she could lay hold to; but she wished more that she could disappear, under the board table, into the kitchen, out the side path, or any place just so she did not have to sit here and pretend to smile. The relatives were talking and laughing now, asking Delia how she managed to get the recipe. Even before Delia began her willing explanation, Elvira knew. It came to her in one clear picture how Delia had watched every move in the cake making. "Fool!" she called herself, to be caught that way. Anyone who knew anything about measurements could tell from the array, and she had been slow in mixing the batter; slow while she listened to Delia gossip! All props to her shrinking self were being torn from their ELVIRA LATHROP 201 groundings, and in a few minutes she would be standing there naked and quivering to face the ruthless Lathrops. Her face was the color of wood ashes and her chin was beginning to tremble. In an attempt to appear at ease she glanced around the table and saw Eric, all the merriment gone from his face. His hands fumbled with the bright silver, while his eyes beseeched her to understand that his part in the downfall had been unwitting. He had meant only to have a little joke. She felt sorry for him, but she could not summon assurance to her eyes. "And I," Delia went endlessly on, "didn't think of it till I vot out to the gate and started for old lady Henry's," (''Liar," Elvira wanted to scream. The cousin was not telling the whole truth; she had used the gossip as a pretext for coming when she felt certain the cake was in the making); '"'and then the idea struck me, and I rushed home. I got the thing made before Eric come home for his supper, and I defy any of you to tell it from Elviry's own. And what's more," she finished with intentioned malice, 'Sf any of you want the receipt, you can have it for the asking!" In the laugh that followed, the spinster, regardless of questioning eyes, or knowing giggles, and the Lathrop tradition of never disclosing feelings in public, slipped away from the table and out of the nearest door. There were three blocks between the Hall and her home, and she ran them without a coat in the thin, cold November light. Few persons were on the street, but these she did not see. Her aching leg was forgotten until a sharp reminder from it stopped her near the gate. Once home she slipped off her best dress, only half conscious of a new rip in the carefully darned armhole. She started a fire in the box stove of the sitting-room, and with elevated leg took up her knitting; it always soothed her, and Ward wanted his woolen socks for winter. As the needles clicked she wondered if they had ceased talking and snickering over her sudden exit. Soon it would be time for the men to go home for hurried chores. And after that the program would change attractions. There would be music, such as her starved ears seldom heard: Lizzie's oldest daughter who was studying "voice" in Salt Lake would sing; Hardy Jones, known all over the West for his violin playing, would give repeated encores, and the Lathrop male quartette would sing "Lucky Jim" and ' 'Happy Days." After that would come dancing, old-fashioned quadrilles and reels that Elvira would love to have danced. Also there would be waltzes and fox trots and two steps as a concession to the youngsters. Yet she was glad that she was away from it all, the pitying glances, the stinging wit, and the condescension of persons who would be kind, "because poor Elviry, she's not got a soul but Ward, and he's no more company than a sheep." When she could knit no longer, she turned on the light to 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE read, but the pages blurred and her thoughts would revert to the afternoon. Eyes on the red-checkered cloth, she rocked, thinking, thinking. Soon she might lose her place in the store, and that would mean help from the relatives, maybe Eric and Delia. "Never!" she hissed to the crackling fire. The shame of Delia's disclosure came to her in hot waves, making her clench her teeth and shudder. It was not the loss of the recipe that troubled her so much now, it was the degradation of being laughed at, made a joke before John and the clan assembled; and it was Eric to whom she had given all fidelity who had bared the loss of her pitiful secret. She was worse than Esau, for he at least had received a meal. She felt a sickish feeling in the pit of her stomach, but she sat there rocking. If Ward had only not arranged with the Hansen boy to milk the cow, she might have had something to do. But as the twilight deepened the comfort of familiar things came to her: The faded rag carpet, the walnut and marble mantle with the loud ticking clock that had been hauled across the Plains, the homely furniture made in the days of Red Water's co-operative manufacturing, and the looped curtains of Nottingham lace. Past skill with the needle was recalled. "I do believe I could pick it up again, if I have to quit my job. It would help my leg, and Charles' wife is always after me to make her a dress." Once the banker's wife came, others would find the way. Perhaps they would compensate in part for the life and gayety she would miss at the store. She'd be glad to get away from Hans anyway. Clarity and peace were returning. Even if Ward did become crippled, they cculd rent out the farm, and still have enough to feed them. When Ward came in after eleven o'clock, she was sitting quietly, knitting. He was as inarticulate as ever, but as he awkwardly took the cane-bottomed rocker on the other side of the box stove, his fumbling gestures betrayed his desire for words. Twice in the same day she felt sorry for men. "Did you have a nice time?" she asked, trying to keep the tremor out of her voice that had sprung up at Ward's sympathy. "Yes." He struggled to tell her how he had enjoyed the old friends, the hours of forgetting himself. "Some of the girls even asked me to danee a reel with them," he boasted deprecatingly. Elvira knew the sad figure he had cut, with his stiff legs, long hair and rusty blue suit, but she only said, "I'm glad," and tried to smile. Stirring in his seat, Ward looked at her hopefully, then relapsed into a tense silence. They sat there, she rocking, and only the loud ticking of the clock, the roar of the newly stirred ELVIRA LATHROP 203 fire disturbed them. Her eyes were suspiciously bright; her thin lips closed like a vise. "We ought to be getting to bed," Ward suggested, breathing heavily, but neither moved. Suddenly he sat erect in his chair. He relapsed again, but the start had been made. "It was a mean trick of Delia's about the cake," he blurted out, the words tumbling over each other in their unaccustomed speed. "There was a lot of people thought the same, though they didn't say so at the table, because they was afraid of her tongue. John's wife come right up to me and she says, "Tell your sister that was one of the most delicious cakes I have ever eaten!'" He was surer of himself now, a pride entered his speech and a faint reminder of Mrs. John's softened r's and shorter vowels. " 'John and I are going to call on her tomorrow night, after the store is closed, if she will permit us, and if she would let us have the recipe, I'd think it was the kindest 999 favor'. He wiped his brow and went on, not noticing that his sister's eyes were gleaming with the first of the held-back tears. "And during the program Eric came up, too, kinda nervous, to tell me he didn't countenance his wife's actions. He said he never in the world would have said what he did, if he'd a knowed Delia was going to say what she did. And besides," Ward was almost winded now from the effort, and there were beads of moisture on his lean face, "che said her cake wasn't near as good as yourn."' Elvira's tears halted him now, and he watched her, embarrassed at their volume. She was shaking from chin to toe, but it was good to know that Eric understood; that Delia had not dulled all his old kindliness. She was glad, too, John remembered and would come. Not many of the Lathrops would be favored with such a Visit. "Tt don't matter none," she told her helpless brother, as she gathered up her scattered knitting. She carefully wiped her eyes and nose while Ward closed the stove draughts and locked the doors. The tears were stopping now; the relaxation that comes with their outpouring was beginning to be felt. "It don't matter none," she repeated, ''besides," a light broke over her face, and the tired lines faded, "I got that pineapple conserve recipe that no one's ever tried before. I guess that'll hold Delia when I spring it at the Relief Society bazaar this coming December!" Without calling goodnight, for that would have been sentimental foolishness, they turned off the lights and went into their cold bedrooms. Pioneers: WHEN WEST WAS WEST—OWEN WISTER By Lais V. Hales "When West Was West" is a recently published book of nine short stories written by the well known American writer Owen Wister. Mr. Wister knew the west in all its glory. Born of Quaker parentage in Philadelphia in 1860, he, like his beloved friend Theodore Roosevelt, came west in 1885 for his health. He stayed for several months on a Wyoming ranch. This was the only one of many visits to the west where he fished and hunted to his heart's content. He came to know intimately the landscape, the soldiers, the cowboys, and the Indians. He learned to love this country dearly, and felt that it was too little appreciated; so he began to write sketches and short stories about it. Today he is one of the best known, best loved, and most read of the present-day American writers of the west. "When West Was West" is a monument to the old West, a west which he knew when it was really west. In theme the stories are very different, but Mr. Wister writes equally well of the varied phases of pioneer life. To show the scope and variety of the book, as well as its bearing on pioneer life, we should like to speak especially about four of these stories. "Bad Medicine," the opening story in the book, gives us a colorful picture of the Indian, who played so important a part in our pioneer life. The story deals with a visit to Yellowstone Park in the early days of its history. Against this background Mr. Wister portrays the Indian with his fears, his superstitions, and his reticence. We feel the elemental quality of the red man. "Did this descendant of wars and wildernesses know the centuries dividing us that his quietness mysteriously conveyed. With his drooping-headed, saturnine animal, he seemed to share some intimate lore of nature that I and all white men were shut out from." As he casts himself into the crater we feel still more strongly how close to nature he is and how little we understand him. "The Right Honorable the Strawberries" is the story of the son of an old English title, young, handsome, likeable, who came to the West and captured the heart of the upright cow-puncher Chalkeye. In the relationship between the Englishman and the American we see the difference between the Old World and the New. The fathomless reticence of the English coupled with the startling Western freedom of speech—freedom as to their incomes, their families, their gaieties—is deep beyond all American understanding. How could Chalkeye, with his freedom where the Englishmen is silent, understand Strawberries. How could he know "that the true aristocrat always is the best democrat, because he is at his ease with everybody, and makes them so with him." Yet, between the two, grew up a friendship which PIONEERS 205 prompted Chalkeye to give his life for Strawberries, and brought Strawberries back to Drybone long after all others had left it. In Chalkeye we have one of Mr. Wister's best characterizations. One day Rudyard Kipling and Owen Wister were returning by train from Washington after dining with their mutual friend Theodore Roosevelt. They were talking "shop," and Wister told the story of a disaster that occurred at a certain military post as a result of the annoyance caused to a certain lively-minded captain by the length of a certain chaplain's hair. An Apache, carefully rehearsed by the captain, played his part in the story. Kipling found the story so good that he said it must be written and entitled "Absalom." Years later Mr. Wister wrote the story and it is included in this book under the title "Absalom and Moulting Pelican." Colonel Steptoe McDee, a Southern gentleman, is a commanding figure, strong, alert, and intelligent. Brokenhearted over the outcome of the Civil War, he comes to the West and meets Randy, a typical Western boy. The warm friendship between these two of such varying ages and traditions is one of the finest things Wister has portrayed. Tragedy has always followed in the wake of the railroad. "At the Sign of The Last Chance," the closing story in the book, tells of the tragedy wrought by the railroad to an old inn where the coaches changed horses or stopped for meals in the good old days. Just a few old men playing a listless game was all Wister found on his last visit. He thus describes it: "I had begun to see those beards long before they were gray; when no wire fence mutilated the freedom of the range; when fourteen mess-wagons would be at the spring round up; when cattle wandered and pastured, dotting the endless wilderness; when roping them brought the college graduate and the boy who had never learned to read, into a lusty equality of youth and skill; when songs rose by the camp-fire; and the dim form of the night herder leaned on his saddle horn as under the stars he circled slowly around the recumbent thousands; when two hundred miles stretched between all this and the whistle of the nearest locomotive. "And all this was over. It had begun to end a long while ago. It had ebbed away slowly from these now playing their nightly game as they had once played it at flood-tide. The turn of the tide had come even when the beards were still brown." To Wister, "the requiem of the brown and golden beards, their romance, their departed West, too good to live forever, was finished." All nine of the stories comprising this book are unusual. The vivid characters, the spontaneous wit, and the excellent description that comes of personal observation make this book good and wholesome. One feels the broadness and generous tolerance of the author and realizes "that when one lives out of doors and takes account of the sky and the clouds, and the quiet earth, one lives hard, it may he, but one lives true." Books Married Sweethearts Somehow | feel that when the average reader picks up "Married Sweethearts," by Alfred Osmond, and especially if he knows the author to be a poet, he will suspect that he is to read something mildly sentimental in praise of wedded home life; and he may be inclined to lay the book aside with the thought "A good book surely, which I shail read some day when I get more time." But let this reader open the lids of the book and he will not read it at some other time but right away—at once, scarcely laying the book down after he has begun it. Lor the entire story is gripping, and holds the reader with fascinating interest from first to last. The story is a succession of real thrills; and while it does contain many fine sentiments well expressed, it never slops over in this respect but brings in the sentiment with skill and ease just where it belongs. The book deals with bandits, robbers, murderers, outlaws, sweethearts, married and unmarried, captured and uncaptured. For the outlaws capture some of them; and the record of their adventures forms a series of pictures comparable with the best Indian stories of former days. There is a good deal of shooting, of combats, of adventures in the mountains amid snow and storms, among wolves and savage men who know chiefly one thing well—how to shoot with deadly effect and to do so upon slight provocation. Thus the book is one that makes a strong appeal to both youth and strong natures, who love action and tense scenes and situations. With all this the book is yet true to its title. While it contains the required materials of dramatic plot and the hairbreadth escapes which hold any reader's interest, it also sets forth the higher beauty of the spirit and the dominant part which the spirit takes in governing the actions of normal and abnormal men and women. It is a love story throughout with several sets of lovers, and so has the charm of romance for all those not too old to remember the glorious days of youth and for the youth who is just about to experience these delights. At the same time there is running through the tense and exciting narrative, like a golden vein in a layer of quartz, a religious philosophy of life and of the power of love to redeem men and women from even their lowest and most deeply fallen estates. That the author can make his book preach a sermon while relating the incidents of thrilling adventure is a high tribute to his genius and ability as both philosopher and story teller. The book is filled also with description of the beauty of western mountains, yet there seems to be little description in it since the scenes are a vital part of the drama itself, not being brought in for the BOOKS 207 purposes of descriptive writing. The characters, too, follow the Homeric rule of acting and speaking for themselves, so that there is not much need to label them as this or that type of human being. Each one is a true and distinctive species of the human race, and each describes himself mainly by what he says and does. The story is laid. Somewhere in Utah, at a not very distant day, in a village near the mountains; it has many characters of plain, average people. The home life of several couples is set forth with a trifle of exaggeration, as if in order to make sure that readers shall see the point. Of the heroines there are quite a number—Nell Foster, Lily Williams, Samantha Wolf and Vera King, all being conspicuous, and each taking a rather heavy part. The men are Sunny Brown, Badger Wolf, Hen Fox, Dave Holmes, Butch Cassidy, the notorious western outlaw, and several of his men. Neil Foster is knidnaped and carried to robbers' roost in the mountains, not for a ransom, but for a test of her supposed love for an old sweetheart Stanley Black, whom she had dismissed a year or so before. She is remarkable but rather less so than the obscure girl, Lily Williams, married to slovenly but good hearted Vern Wiliams, who is untidy and uncultured. Lily goes in search of her kidnaped friend, Nell. She is guided by the mail carrier for the robber, who turns out to be of first magnitude as a man of iron and of honor, and accompanied by Sunny Brown, a young man of the village not in love with anyone, who at length becomes a real hero and falls in love with an ideal woman, the picture of his own fancy. He finally meets her in these mountains with the usual result. Nell discovers that her discarded lover had no hand in her abduction but that on the contrary he has become a man of high ideals and lofty character, writing a book on the philosophy of life. The story ends right, and is a good one. Pioneers Peder Victorious—O. E. Rolvaag "O you youths, Western youths, So impatient; full of action, full of manly pride and friendship, Plain I see you, Western youths, see you tramping with the foremost— Pioneers! O Pioneers! Have the elder races halted? Do they droop and end their lesson, wearied over there beyond the seas? We take up the task eternal, and the burden and the lesson, Pioneers! O Pioneers! 208 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE We debouch upon a newer, mightier world, varied world, Fresh and strong the world we seize, world of labor and the march, Pioneers! O Pioneers! This is the theme of O. E. Rolvaag's new novel "Peder Victorious,' which is a sequel to his first great pioneer novel, "Giants in the Earth." It is a tale of the second generation of Norwegian pioneers on the Dakota Plains. In Mr. Rolvaag's first novel the conflict was that of man and the prairies. In this novel it is that of parents and children. Especially is it the story of the struggle between a strong, dominating, backward-looking mother and her gifted, forward-looking son. They are antagonists as to language, religion, and attitude toward life. But Peder is victorious for "fresh and strong" the world and its problems he seizes, and carries on the march of the pioneers. In a small sod hut on the Dakota prairie one Christmas Eve, a son was born to Beret and Per Hansa. In pure thankfulness and because the child was born with "the helmet," ' Per named him Peder Victorious, much to the disgust of Beret. Who felt that here on the pitiless prairies no one could be victorious, for the evil must sooner or later get us all. While Peder was very small, Per Hansa wandered off into the prairie, never to return alive. After the cruel and, to all outward appearances, senseless death of his beloved father, Peder grappled with the problem of God as an all-loving and allpowerful entity. It seemed queer to him that "He who could do all that He wanted, and wanted only that which was good, couldn't get people to do what He wanted." His mother Beret had built up within him a supernatural reality, and the only suggestion he got from her was that God acts as he does in order to try people. As Peder pondered it all, he wondered why grown people were always ready to cry. He decided that "the greatest thing on earth must be to make people happy—so full of joy that they had to laugh—that's what he wanted to do." Here he and Beret came into serious conflict, for to her all happiness was sinful. She had forgotten that it is God who causes all life to flower, and who puts both good and evil into the hearts of men. She could not understand that God is good and that he sanctions love, joy, and happiness. Beret wanted Peder to enter the ministry, but she drove him away from it with these strange ideas. Peder became a farmer instead of a minister. Beret was very sad as she watched the Americanization of Peder. As he assimilated the English language in the place of the language of his father, she lost hope. Here in America BOOKS 209 the Norwegians were gradually casting away all that they had brought with them from Norway. After all had been taken and there was nothing but the body left, what then? Was it possible for Norwegian hearts to beat in a medium so alien? Must it not eventually mean death to them as a race here in America. "But could a common sparrow take the meadow lark's song?" Was the minister right when he said that in twenty years not one word of Norwegian would be heard in America? With these thoughts, Beret fights her progressive son as he grapples with the problems of becoming an American. Thanks to his father's pioneer spirit moving within him, Peder keeps looking forward, and takes over to the full his "New World inheritance." These are the things we find of most importance in this fine new book. Here, as in "Giants in The Earth," we discover what critics have called faith in the nobility of the human spirit. Peder fights the problems of his generation with just the same fine spirit that his father fought the prairie. Mr. Rolvaag gives us a truthful picture of the differences of the old and the young in any generation. He treats the attitude of each generation with the same sympathy and respect. Of the religious attitude of the Norwegians here in America he says, "A people's soul had begun to stir. That which the mind—in some hidden cove of a Norwegian fjord, or on some lonely island far out where the mighty sea booms eternally— through centuries had conceived of religious mysticism, and there shaped so as to fit the conditions of life, now sought a natural expression on the open reaches of the prairie." Naturally, we do not find so many fine and varied pictures of the prairie as we did in "Giants in The Earth." But we feel keenly the effect of it on the characters of the book. "From eternity the prairie had lain here, lapping sun and drinking moisture, and had peered up into an endless blue sky, brimful to running over. At evening it had listened to strange tales told by the twilight breeze * * * "Human habitations lay far apart upon the open stretches—miles apart in places. One could not borrow warmth from the other here. Through the cold grayness they seemed to huddle up, to crouch low over something, as if jealously guarded." Notes from the Field South Sevier Stake On September 9, 1928, at 2 p. M. A South Sevier Stake Relief Society class leaders' convention was held in the Elsinore ward chapel with more than 80 stake and ward officers in attendance. A talk "Teachers and Better Methods of Teaching" was given by Brother Harold Anderson. A discussion of the lesson was held, and then department work was carried out. It is believed that much good will result from this convention. Pocatello Stake (Meadow Ward) Meadow ward is small, but seemingly alive to opportunities MrApow Warp RELIEF SOCIETY in Relief Society work. The ward is a winner in stake contests, and boasts of 100% annual dues paid last year. Grant Stake The closing session of the Grant stake Relief Society class leaders' convention was held in the form of a banquet on November 15, 1928. President Winnifred B. Daynes presided. Speakers of the evening were Elder David O. McKay, President Louise Y. Robison, and President Joseph J. Daynes. The hall was beautifully NOTES FROM: THE FIELD 211 decorated with the Fall flowers, and the Relief Society color scheme of white and gold was used on. The tables. About 450 guests were present, including Elder and Mrs. David O. McKay, the Stake Presidency, High Council, Bishoprics, and other ward officers. President Louise Y. Robison, past President Clarissa S. Williams, and other members of the General Board were present. This progressive stake has also made an enviable record in its Magazine subscriptions. The stake itself gave as a prize to the ward having the greatest number of subscribers per capita, ten subscriptions to the Magazine. This went to the Southgate ward, of which Mrs. May Fromeyer is the agent. This ward shows an enrollment of 42 members in the Relief Society, with a subscription of 48 to the Magazine. It is fine missionary work when non-members of the Relief Society become subscribers to the Magazine. The next ward to win distinction in this activity was the Whittier, with Mrs. Emily A. Jones as agent. The enviable record made here is that of an increase from 18 to 80 subscribers within two years. Alpine Stake Special attention is called to the very beautiful and appropriate memorial to Annie C. Hindley. This is a most unusual and constructive manner in which to do honor to a noble woman whose life was devoted to service for her sisters. On October 25, 1928, the official dedication exercises in honor of the project were held in the Alpine stake tabernacle, with President Maud D. Christensen of the Alpine stake Relief Society presiding. The Annie C. Hindley memorial shelf, which occupies two ceiling cabinets on each side of the entrance door of the public library in American Fork was thrown open to the public. This valuable collection numbers more than 308 books, which. Will be most serviceable to the women in the work that was so dear to Mrs. Hindley's heart. The public is cordially invited to visit this library. No finer testimonial could be given, and we congratulate the sisters of this stake on this fine accomplishment. We are sure that the volumes in the library wil: be invaluable for reference and for entertainment. The Generai Board took great pleasure in adding to this collection. The invitation is still open to those who may wish to donate books in memory of Mrs. Hindley. We feel that a work has just begun here that will be most notable in its development and of lasting benefit to lovers of truth and admirers of Mrs. Hindley. Franklin and Oneida Stakes Relief Society officers of the Franklin and Oneida stakes cooperated in conducting a pleasant and profitable class leaders' convention on September 22, 1928. Representatives of the presidencies of these stakes, one advisory High Councilman, some prominent educators, and 102 officers of the Relief Society were in attendance. The work of the chorister was ably outlined, and 212 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE what careful work can do was demonstrated. Professor John E. Marsden discussed the subject "Better Methods of Teaching and Better Teachers." It is felt that the class leaders were greatly benefited by this talk. An exemplary lesson was developed in each of the three departments, theology, literature, and social service. The music was furnished by the ward Relief Society members. Two beautiful quilts, work done by the Oneida stake board of Relief Society, were exhibited. Franklin and Oneida were one stake formerly, so the luncheon and social hour which followed the meeting was greatly enjoyed in making new acquaintances and renewing old friendships. St. George Stake A most inspirational and instructive class leaders' convention was held in connection with a flower show and pageant in the St. George stake Relief Society. Members came from all parts of the stake. Fifteen associations took part in the day's activities. In spite of the severe droughts and extreme heat of the past season, the flower show exceeded all expectations. The artificial flowers showed skill and art in execution. In the morning session departmental work was conducted. In the afternoon excellent talks were given by J. Wm. Harrison and Sister Verna Cox on "The Relief Society as a Teacher," and "Religion in the Home." Musical numbers were furnished by Enterprise, Toquerville, and St. George wards. At noon, in the St. George cafe, a delicious luncheon was served to 80 officers. To celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society in St. George, a pageant was presented in the College Auditorium. The parts pertaining to the stake were composed by Sisters Zora Jarvis, Roxie Romney, and Alfa McGregor. The pageant presented the seven General Presidents of the Relief Society impersonated by local members. This was followed by the five "Dixie" presidents. The closing part represented the present stake president, Sister Josephine J. Miles, with her ward presidents: The ladies all dressed in white; the ward presidents kneeling, each holding a gold streamer connected with a staff held by the stake 'president as she stood, connecting the past stake and the General Presidents, who made up the background. Excellent choruses furnished appropriate singing for the pageant. Morgan Stake. Morgan stake feels that a very successful Relief Society year has been completed; that the ward presidents and aids have been capable, enthusiastic leaders. On October 30, 1928, an inspirational convention of the Stake Relief Slociety was held, when effective talks along the lines covering inost of the Relief Society activities were given. More than 200 workers were in attendance at this gathering, and much educa- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 213 tional and spiritual work reflecting the scope of the whole organization was put°over. The musical program for the occasion was one of the outstanding features. Moapa Stake. The aged sisters, shown below, are members of the Overton Relief Society, and have spent many years of active service in the work, holding places of responsibility. The youngest of the group is 71 years of age, the oldest 88. They are still active and faithful—all honor to such groups whose life is a.- testimony of high idealism. Last June the stake took up as a project, "The Open' Door," and learned the songs in the music practice period during the remainder of the year at the regular Relief Society meetings. A few group practices finished the preparation. Each Relief Society took responsibility for two pageant scenes; the stake board and one other near-by group joined, making in all five groups who worked harmoniously together for the successful presentation of the pageant. The president feels that much good has come from the effort, and it was also a financial success. 'There were many obstacles to be overcome but a very successful presentation of the pageant showed what unity of effort and determination to accomplish certain objectives may do. Maricopa Stake. ' Some very interesting experiences come into the work of the Relief Society in the Maricopa stake. Not the least of this is the work among our Lamanite sisters. In February the Papago ward was reorganized; a native sister, Martha Manuel, was selected to be the president. A very fine spirit of mutual helpfulness pervades the work of the organization in this stake; the stronger wards seeking to help those who have greater difficulties in Relief Society endeavor, Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in June) LOYALTY: ITS MEANING AND NECESSITY Loyalty is faithfulness. In its highest form, it has behind it confidence, respect, and love. Inner loyalty is a mental attitude of enduring faithfulness that holds out against approach of all impulses leading to desertion of accepted principles, espoused causes, adopted ideals, or worthy persons. Outer loyalty is conduct in keeping with inner loyalty. It is faithfulness expressed in word and action. It is good will in operation toward an objective. There is more character in full loyalty to a fable than there is in part loyalty to a fact. Disloyalty cannot be transmuted into any form of goodness. Out of loyalty to an error may develop power for loyalty to truth. In his conscientious persecution Paul was loyal to the light he had; and this loyalty made him the fighter of the good fight, the winner of the life race, the keeper of the faith. His loyalty was true in both cases; true to an accepted error, true to a discerned truth; true to a foe, true to a friend. Loyalty is love's most precious gift; it is friendship's final proof; it is humanity's strongest lifting lever. Endurance faithful to the end, Links up the man to God as friend, Earth loyalty of day-by-day Illuminates the heavenly way. Loyalty and Law: Jesus declares his loyalty to law and to the prophets who had proclaimed it. He points out the relative value of word loyalty and action loyalty. See Matt. 5:17, 18, 19. That he Had regard for the civil law is plainly set forth in Matt. 22:17-21. Christ's loyalty to law was shown to the wife of Pilate in a dream. In the face of a multitude of accusers the Roman Governor pronounced the "Man of Galilee" not guilty, reminding the mob that he and Herod, the King of Judea, agreed as to verdict of innocence, and thus making it unmistakably clear that Jesus had been loyal to the laws of the Kingdom of Judea and to those-of the Roman empire. (Luke 23:13, 16.) GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 215 In the 12th Article of [Faith the Latter-day Saints proclaim to all the world that true to the faith includes loyalty to law, a loyalty that consists of "obeying, honoring, and sustaining," by living the law, defending the law and backing up the enforcement of the law. The constitutional law of any country has first claim upon the civic loyalty of everybody in that country be they citizens or visitors. (See 12th Article of Faith.) Loyalty to One's Word of Honor or One's Covenants: A word of honor to stand. By righteousness is an aid to the elevation of standards, but a word of honor given in support of evident unrighteousness is, conspiracy against human happiness; there is no honor in a pledge of that kind. Such a promise is conceived in dishonor, born of dishonor, and kept with dishonor. It is one of the most tragic forms of disloyalty. One's word of honor is a part of one's sacred self; it cannot knowingly be given to degrading causes without taking the giver downward. An oath of office is one of the highest words of honor; it cannot honestly be taken without an inner loyalty to the law. Loyalty to one's word of honor lifts one's self respect and wins the respect of others. Loyalty to Causes: The espousal of some great cause is esential to an abundant life, and loyalty to a great cause develops greatness of character. The greatness of an individual or of a group is measurable by the greatness of the causes espoused or the projects projected by them and by their loyalty to these causes in the carrying out of the project. The lasting lifting power of loyalty to a good cause is immeasurable. From such loyalty came freedom, and through such loyalty the era of good will shall come, when the "Goddess of right and the Champion might shall meet at the altar of love." The causes constantly calling for loyalty are freedom, education, temperance, peace, health, justice, tolerance, purity—all included in the great cause of Christianity. Loyalty to Ideals: Ideals are character rainbows. As we approach them they move on, but their lure is lofty; if we turn our backs upon them they are no more to us. For the soul that is loyal to an ideal there is no deluge. My rainbow stood on the top of a hill And beckoned me to the golden till; I climbed, and it sped to the mountain-side, All I had gained was a vision wide; I was left in the shadow. 216 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE My rainbow lured me higher still, I climbed and felt the climber's thrill; My rainbow fled to the mountain top, I climbed, I would not, could not, stop— Thank God, I said, for my rainbow. Family Loyalty: "Blood is thicker than water'—yes, and it should be. "I came to my own," said the Savior. The close-knit families are the enduring ones. The family tree is under the special protection of every member. Family loyalty forbids hacking it with the hacker's envy or cutting it with tongues of slander. Cousins cannot speak evil of each other without a rebound of their depreciation of each other's values. Sisters-in-law do themselves and their children a good turn when they take good care of the reputation of each other. Family loyalty increases the sun-kissed output of the family tree. Better brag a little on one's brother than to belittle him; for the more belittling, the bigger the burden of a relative. Family loyalty will foster family friendship and develop family love. Notice the family member who is full of family loyalty, and usually he or she is the center of family confidence, admiration, and good will. The lack of loyalty in a family points to domestic decline and is a signal of the approach of unfitness to survive. Family loyalty is not limited to praise of good qualities; it goes over into the field of helpfulness. Members of a family should be as glad to lift on the unfortunate as they are to share with the fortunate members. Charity should not only begin at home, but should be loyally followed up within the family circle; and the helpers should know that it is harder to be helped than it is to help. Family loyalty fights the wolf of want; holds back the hand of hate. It finds means and ways for home happiness and kindred friendship. Its limitations are bounded only by higher loyalty, of which loyalty to righteousness is the highest. Religious Loyalty: This form of loyalty includes loyalty to the beliefs and the ideals for which the Church stands and to the Church leaders. It is a loyalty that suggests the slogan, "Everything to boost and nothing to belittle." No religion is so complete nor any ideal so perfect nor any officer so infallible that improvement may not be thought of and spoken about in a build-up spirit; but all of these are too sacred to be made the object of faultfinding with destructive disloyalty behind it. In this age of unlimited religious freedom, consistency suggests that people should not belong to a Church to which they cannot be loyal GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 217 in their works. Church loyalty leads to doing one's "bit" for the Church; not only the little bit, the "get-by" bit, but the "full-share" bit—the share indicated by the law of the Lord. For a religion without belief i# and obligation to God is nothing more than a social organization and is not entitled to the name religion. Religion is the application of theology; and theology is a code of beliefs concerning God and his relation to man. The life of Job was more than an example of patience; it was an example of perfect loyalty; for while his patience did not prevent him from speaking of his birth as an event to be regretted, his loyalty to the Lord led him to exclaim: "Though he slay me, yet will I trust in Him." (See Job 10:18, 19-13:15.) Questions and Problems 1. Into which topic of this lesson does the last part of the final stanza of "The Star Spangled Banner," fit? 2. Arrange in the order of their claim upon our. Loyalty the following named causes: freedom, temperance, justice. 3. Explain what is meant by inner loyalty. 4. Give evidence that the life of Jesus was an object lesson in loyalty to law. 5. Show that the Latter-day Saints are particularly committed to this form of loyalty. 6. Name some men and some women to whom fame and honor have come through their loyalty to causes. 7. Mention two or more great causes that are calling for the loyalty of Americans, and tell which you think is entitled to the most immediate attention. 8. Explain what loyalty to an ideal means to you. 9. What limitations should be put on family loyalty? 10. What habit in conversation proclaims one's loyalty to the Church? What habits advertise one's disloyalty to his religion? 11. Present evidence to prove that Job's loyalty was greater than his patience. 218 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Work and Business LESSON II (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in June) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE—ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 4 Wuy THE CHARITY COLLECTION? I. To provide, by helping those who need that help, an opportunity for an expression of appreciation for our own blessings. II. To avoid the prayers of widows and fatherless ascending against us. Ill. To offer, in disaster, bereavement, sickness, a means of support for the unfortunate. IV. To supply means to educate or otherwise to aid some people to help themselves. V. To train each member of every household by encouraging him to put by and contribute a small amount each month to help others. You may find it useful to learn the amount contributed per family in your Ward during the past year. It would appear that some of our literary class leaders, and some other people deeply interested in the literature lessons, have not yet learned that it is impossible to obtain a copy of "Joseph and His Brethren." The entire edition has been exhausted, and the book dealers are unable to obtain any further copies of the book. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 219 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) THE DOLL'S HOUSE By Henrik Ibsen Henrik Ibsen was born March 20, 1828, at the little seaport town of Skein, where one may purchase a good deal of: silverware, for which the Norwegian market is famous. Ibsen came of Scotch, Danish and German descent. His early years were Spent in penury. When he was fifteen years of age his family moved to Grimstad, a town of eight hundred inhabitants. In 1850 he went to Christiania, now Oslo, to prepare to enter the university. Having had the good fortune to meet Ole Bull, the great violinist, he was called to be threatre poet at jhe modest little national theatre at Bergen. There he remained until 1857. From Bergen, he later found himself again in Christiania, where he remained until 1864. While here, he acted as theatre poet for the Norwegian Theatre in Christiania. Ibsen had been writing plays since his Grimstad days. After his return to Christiania, he devoted himself actively to writing. After many efforts, he obtained a grant of money for traveling. His way Jed to Italy, and now for twelve years he was away from his native country, spending part of the time in Rome, part time in Munich, and part time in Dresden. By 1875 his European fame was established. He returned to Christiania for the remainder of his life. He died in 1906. His contribution to literature was that of a playwright, as he never wrote a biography or even a preface to his plays, nor did he enter into business or other public affairs, but devoted himself solely to writing.. It has been said on good authority that The Doll's House is the greatest of Ibsen's plays. Thomas H. Dickinson says: "With The Doll's House begins Ibsen's gallery of enfranchised women. Ibsen's distrust of the majority of average men had its complement in his faith in the superior man. And it is among the superior men that he places women. From his earliest playwriting he had treated women as of a superior order of humanity, superior in intuition, in steadfastness, in unselfishness." In The Doll's House Ibsen gives us the story of a woman who had been trained for entertaining in her father's home, who had been petted within the home and sheltered from the world outside of the home. She married a business man who accepted her very much on the same terms as her father had 220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE done before him—as a play thing. Finally, she was brought face to face with a very serious situation. Her husband was ill, the doctor told her in confidence that if he were not taken to another climate, he would lose his life. She had no money and knew that her husband was averse to borrowing money. She promised to obtain her father's signature to a note for a loan, but her father died before the signature was obtained, and she forged his name. Then, having obtained the money and thereby having provided the means whereby her husband's 'health was restored, she set to work to make the money in such little ways as were at her command. She copied manuscripts, deeds, and such like. Finally, in order to get the time, unbeknown to her husband, she told him that she was locked from him, hour after hour, preparing things for the Christmas tree. Finally, on Christmas Eve, she said the cat got into the room and destroyed all the things she had made. Difficulty arose between Nora's husband, Torvald Helmer, and the man from whom Nora had borrowed the money. His position was threatened at the bank where Helmer had been advanced and he wanted Nora to use her good offices to keep him in the place. Nora protested the thought of her having any influence with her husband, but Krogstad said he had known her husband since his school days and thought he was as susceptible as other men he had known. Nora was so optimistic over her husband's future that she did not think it necessary to be in any way especially considerate of Krogstad. Nora finally assured Krogstad that it was really not in her power to help him. Krogstad replied, "Because you will not; but I have the means of compelling you to help me." Nora said, "You don't intend to tell my husband that I owe you money?" Krogstad: Hm! Supposing I were to tell him? Nora: It would be scandalous of you (with suppressed tears.) This secret, which is my joy and my pride, he shall not learn in such a vulgar, blunt way—and from you, too. You want to put me to the most terrible annoyance. Krogstad: Only annoyance? Nora (hotly): But just do it; the consequences will be worse for you than anybody else; for then my husband will see clearly what a bad man you are, and then you certainly will not keep our post. Krogstad: I asked if it were only domestic unpleasantness that you were afraid of? Nora: If my husband gets to know about it he will, of course, pay the rest without delay; and then we have nothing more to do with you. Krogstad (stepping a pace nearer): Listen, Mrs. Helmer: GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 221 either you have rather a weak memory, or you don't know much about business. In that case I must get you to go more deeply into the matter. Nora: How will you do that? Krogstad: When your husband was ill, you came to borrow £300 of me. Nora: I knew nobody else. Krogstad: I promised to find you the money. Nora: And you did find it. Krogstad: I promised to find you the money under certain conditions. You were just then so excited about your husband's illness, and so anxious to get hold of the money for your journey, that you probably did not think twice about the difficulties it involved. It is therefore not superfluous for me to remind you of them. Now, I promised to find you the money in exchange for an acknowledgment which I drew up. Nora: Yes, and I signed it. Krogstad: Very well. But then I added a few lines whereby your father became security for the debt. Your father was to sign this. Nora: Was to? He did sign. Krogstad: I had left the date blank; that is to say, your father was to insert the date on which he signed the document. Do you recollect this, Mrs. Helmer? Nora: Yes, I believe. Cede Krogstad: Thereupon I gave you the piece of paper that you might send it to your father. Is not that so? Nora: Yes. Krogstad: And of course you did so without delay; for within five or six days you brought me back the acknowledgment duly signed by your father. Then you received from me the sum promised. Nora: Well, to be sure; have I not paid it back punctually? Krogstad: Very fairly; yes. But let us return to the matter we were speaking of. You were in great trouble at the time, Mrs. Helmer? Nora: I was indeed. Krogstad: Your father, too, was very seriously ill, I believe. Nora: He was on his death-bed. Krogstad: And died soon after? Nora: Yes. Krogstad: Now, just tell me, Mrs. Helmer, whether by any chance you happen to recollect which day he died—which day of the month, I mean. Nora: Father died on the twenty-ninth of September. 222 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZIN# Krogstad: Quite correct; I have made inquiries about it. That is why I can not explain a remarkable circumstance (draws from his pocket a piece of writing.), Nora: A remarkable circumstance? I do not know. * Krogstad: The remarkable circumstance, dear Mrs. Helmer is, that your father signed this acknowledgment three days after his death. Nora: What? I don't understand. Krogstad: Your father died on the twenty-ninth of. September. But just look here. Here your father has dated his signature October the 2d. Is not that remarkable, Mrs. Helmer? (Nora is silent.) Can you explain that to me? (Nora continues silent.) It is also striking that the words "October the 2d" and the year are not in your father's handwriting, but in one which I believe I know. Now this may be explained by supposing that your father forgot to date it, and that somebody added the date by guess work before the fact of his death was known. There is nothing improper in that proceeding. But it is the signature of his name that my question relates to. And is it genuine, Mrs. Helmer? Was it really your father who with his own hand set his name here? Nora (after a short silence throws her head back and looks defiantly at him): No; it is I who wrote papa's name there. Krogstad: And are you aware, moreover, that that is a dangerous admission? Nora: Why? You will soon get your money. Krogstad: May I be permitted one more question: Why did you not send the document to your father? Nora: It was impossible. Father was then dangerously ill. If I had asked him for his signature I should also have had to tell him what I wanted the money for. But in his condition J really could not tell him that my husband's life hung by a thread. It was quite impossible. Krogstad: Then it would have been better for you to give up the journey abroad. Nora: That was impossible, too. My husband's life depended on that journey. I could not give it up. Krogstad: But did you not consider, then, that it was a fraud on me? Nora: I could not take any heed of that. I did not care in the least about you. I could not endure you on account of all the hard-hearted difficulties you made, although you knew how ill my husband was. Krogstad: Mrs. Helmer, you have evidently no clear idea what you have been really guilty of. But I can assure you it was nothing different from this, nor worse than this. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 223 that I once did, and that destroyed my entire position in society. Nora: You? Do you want to make me believe that you would have dared to do a courageous act in order to save your wife's life? Krogstad: The laws inquire little into motives. Nora: Then we must have very bad laws. Krogstad: Bad, or not bad—if I lay this document before a court of law you will be judged according to the laws. Nora: That I do not believe. Do you mean to tell me that a daughter has not the right to spare her old father, on his death-bed, care and worry? Do you mean to say that a wife has not the right to save her husband's life? J don't know the law precisely, but I am convinced that somewhere or another the law must contain leave for me to have done such things. And you don't know it—you, a lawyer. You must be a bad lawyer, Mr. Krogstad. Krogstad: I dare say. But business—such business as ours here—I do understand; you believe that? Very well. Now, do as you please. But this I do say to you: that if I am turned out of society a second time, you shall keep me company. Krogstad leaves Nora's home very much disturbed, and later writes a letter to her husband telling him of the whole affair. Nora knows that the letter is in the box, and she does everything to draw her husband's attention away from it. Finally, after their return from a ball, where she has danced the tarantella with surprising effect, he takes the letter from the box. Nora has had a romantic, idealistic attitude toward her husband, and she believes that when he learns of her trouble, he will be so grateful to her for having provided the means that saved his life, that he will take the whole responsibility on himself to protect her. Imagine her surprise when Helmer says to her: "Do you know what is in this letter? * * * You miserable creature—what have you done?" Nora: Let me go. You shall not suffer for it; you shall not take it upon yourself. Helmer: Don't try any actress's tricks (shuts the door to the hall.) Were you shall stay and abide my judgment. Do you comprehend what you have done? Answer. Do you understand it? Nora (looks at him fixedly, and says with heightened expression): Yes. Now I begin to understand it quite. Helmer (walking round): Oh, what an awful awakening! During all these eight years—you who were my pride and my joy—a hypocrite, a liar—ay, and worse, worse—a criminal. Oh! What an abyss of unloveliness it implies! Ugh! Ugh! (Nora 224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is silent, and continues to look fixedly at him. Helmer continues standing before her.) I ought to have guessed that something of the kind was sure to happen. I ought to have forseen it. Your father's low principles—be silent!—your father's low principles you have inherited, every one of them. No religion, no morality, no sense of duty. Oh, how bitterly punished I am for ever having winked at his doings! I did it for your sake; and this the way you reward me. Later, Krogstad sends a letter to Helmer which says that he has destroyed the evidence and it will not be produced against her. Then Helmer exclaims in his selfishness: "I am saved! Nora, I am saved!" And Nora asks, "And I?" and he says, "You too, of course." Helmer does not understand the shock he has given his wife. She asks him to sit down, telling him she has many things to talk over with him. Helmer (sitting opposite to her at the table): Nora, you make me anxious. * * * JI don't. In the least understand you. Nora: Just so. You don't understand me. And in the same way I have never understood you, till tonight. No, don't interrupt me. Only listen to what I say. * * * This isa breaking off, Torvald. Helmer: How do you mean? Nora (after a short silence): Does not one thing strike you as we sit here? Helmer: What should strike me? Nora: We have now been married eight years. Does it not strike you that tonight for the first time we two, you and I, husband and wife, are speaking together seriously? Helmer: Well; "seriously," what does that mean? Nora: During eight whole years and more, since the day we first made each other's acquaintance, we have never exchanged one serious word about serious things. Helmer: Ought I, then, too have persistently initiated you into difficulties you could not help me by sharing? Nora: I am not talking of difficulties. All I am saying is, that we have never yet seriously talked any one thing over together. Helmer: But, dearest Nora, would it have been any good to you if we had? Nora: That is the very point. You have never understood me. * * * J have been greatly wronged, Torvald. First by father and then by you. * * * Nora: Yes, it is just so, Torvald. While I was still at home with father, he used to tell me all his views, and so of course I held the same views; if at any time I had a different view I concealed it, because he would not have liked people GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 225 with opinions of their own. He used to call me his little doll, and play with me, as I in my turn used to play with my dolls. Then I came to live in your house. * * * Here I have been your doll-wife, just as at home I used to be papa's doll-child. Problem Nora thinks that there must be something wrong in a world where a woman may not be permitted to save her husband's life. She knows that she has been punished severely for doing the natural thing, and so she wonders what is the matter with the laws. At least, she has learned one thing, that if a woman is to have freedom to do the good that is within her soul, she must understand her world. So she leaves Helmer with the children. She rather accepts his verdict that she is not prepared to make them the mother they should have or to make him the wife he should have until she has learned more of her world. The Doll's House is a satire against keeping a woman in ignorance, or the old belief that a woman is all right provided her husband is well informed. The husband may be in the condition Helmer was in, so near to death's door that he cannot be communicated with, and the father may be on his deathbed, or even dead, as Nora's father was at the time she needed his help. Ibsen has been careful to give us a situation where both the husband and the father are unable to give the woman advice, and as a consequence, she disobeys the law and becomes liable to a severe penalty because of her ignorance, which this time means a lack of knowledge of the law. Questtons 1. What opportunities offered women of today make it possible for them to keep out of Nora's difficulties? 2. Do you think Nora was justified in feeling that she should be trained to be a real companion to her husband? 3. What characteristics of Torvald Helmer made him shrink from assuming Nora's guilt, as she believed, at first, that he would? 4. Do you think it was natural for Nora to refuse to be friendly with her husband after he had spoken to her the harsh words that he did speak? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June) Lesson 15. Present Status of Our Knowledge of Education. (Based on Part 3, "The Child, His Nature and His Needs.") 226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (Note: One of our colleagues has suggested that our reference to smoking in last month's lesson on "Adolescence" is apt to leave a wrong impression in the minds of some readers. Lest this should happen, we hasten to amplify the statement in Lesson 14 which seems possible of misinterpretation. On page 171 of the Magazine for March, 1929, we make the following statement: "But since cigarette smoking has been popularized and extended—due, by the way, to modern business methods—it is incorrect to assume that the use of the cigarette today is as immoral as it was a generation ago." To this we would add the following qualification: 'This, however, is not meant to imply that its use is not as harmful now as it was formerly. We believe that cigarette smoking is just as physically harmful now as it ever was, and that it should be comhated by every intelligent means at our command. Perhaps a better way to present this statement would be to say that since cigarete smoking has been popularized and extended—due, by the way, to modern business methods—it is incorrect to assume that the use of the cigarette in the world, today, is as immoral as it was a generation ago." In affirming our belief in the Church stand on this point, we can do no more than call attention to the revelation given through Joseph, the Seer, at Kirtland, Geauga County, Ohio, February 27, 1833, which reads: "And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. * * * And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones, and shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint; and I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them."—Doc. And Cov., Section 89, Verses 8 and 18-21.) A. The Gap. Between our Knowledge of Education and our Educational Practice This chapter (16), written by John J. Tigert, formerly United States Commissioner of Education, discusses a problem that is little understood and still less appreciated by the average American citizen. The discrepancy between educational needs and educational practice becomes apparent when one considers the failure of the public school (a) to systematically train for \ GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 2 character development, (b) to deal with the sex life of the child, (c) to cope with the problems of vocational guidance and vocational 'education, (d) to prepare children for the constructive use of their leisure time, and (e) to train them for citizenship. B. The Reasons for a Gap Between Educational Theory and Practice Obviously, the main reason for a gap between educational theory and practice is the fact of social change. Schools can hardly anticipate social change, at least as they are organized at present. The very best they can do at the present is to keep abreast of social change. The more education becomes formalized, on the one hand, and the more rapid is the social change on the other, the wider, of course, becomes the gap between educational needs and educational practice. The author of this chapter has analyzed very effectively the main reasons why practice lags behind knowledge in education. To this list, however, might very well be added two or three other more or less related causes. In the first place, education has not been characterized by the superior leadership that has characterized, for instance, commerce and trade. Other things being equal, young men and women will more often choose business, law, medicine, etc., in preference to teaching. The reason for this, of course, is not hard to see. The financial rewards in such fields as medicine, business, law, etc., are far more attractive than in education. This condition is largely responsible for the lack of leadership which in general has charcterized educational work in this country, at least. The result is that education has been deprived of a good deal of the vision and vigor that it would otherwise possess. _ The limitations of educational practice are, of course, somewhat of a reflection of our prevailing social attitudes and something of an indication of the relative importance of our social values. In the United States, particularly, commerce and trade have assumed supreme command of our life and thinking. Education, character and other "higher wants" inevitably suffer when our values become thus reversed. (This, of course, is not meant to disparage commerce and industry. The implication is, merely, that education and other non-profit-making enterprises which promote the "good life" will have to be more liberally subsidized in order to compete with modern business in attracting men and women of superior ability. C. Education is Becoming a Science An activity is scientific when it reduces the element of chance and substitutes precision and certainty therefor. A subject is 228 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE scientific when it is characterized by rules or principles which are objective and verifiable; that is, when whoever applies them will obtain uniform, predictable results. The reason for this scientific movement in education is the need for eliminating waste and increasing efficiency of the educational process in general.. Concretely, this scientific tendency is producing a re-examination of many procedures and traditional 'practices which are at present the very warp and woof of school work. The re-examination of the curriculum, for instance, and the re-classification of pupils, are cases in point. One of the most definite evidences of this scientific tendency in modern education is the highly successful practice of measuring the results of instruction. It is no longer necessary, for instance, to guess at the effectiveness of a teacher's instruction in the matter of reading, arithmetic, writing, spelling, geography, composition, etc. Objective tests, yielding quantitative scores are now used systematically in most modern schools in these and other subjects. In addition to the tendency of teachers' colleges and a number of the wealthy school districts (e. G. Winnetka) to set up laboratory schools for the purpose of trying out new ideas in education, there has developed a tremendous interest in educational research and investigation. The larger school systems employ assistant superintendents and other administrative heads who are highly trained in the technique of research. These and other concrete applications of the scientific spirit and the scientific method in education will, in a short space of a few years, guarantee a more efficient system of education; one which is more likely to keep abreast of contemporary social life than has ever been true in the past. For the Further Stimulation of Thought 1. Why does public education "necessarily lag behind" social life? 2. What reasons other than those mentioned by the author and in this lesson can you give why practice lags behind knowledge in education in your community, 3. Should a state superintendent of public instruction be elected or appointed? Why? How is it done in your state? 4, What are the provisions of the Smith-Hughes Act? How has your state participated in the provisions of this law? 5. What, according to Tigert, has been the greatest drawback to the success of vocational education? 6. Is acomplete reorganization of the public schools needed? GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 229 Why? How should this change be brought about? What part and responsibility have a local community in such a change? 7. What is the difference between the German and the American system of public schools? To what extent has the German system of education influenced our own? 8. Why do pupils drop out of school in your community? Has a careful study of this subject ever been made by your local school officials? 9. What is a junior high school? What are its advantages and limitations? 10. Wherein is it correct or incorrect to assume that the application of scientific method will alone close the gap between educational] theory and educational practice? Hills By Christie Lund God, make me as the hills— Strong, to endure The cold, The bitterness of winter's ruthless winds. Give me the character To stand Unmoved, unweakened By the friendly summer sun, Give me the courage To face adversity— Flaunting my colors high, Like hills when summer dies. Yet, more than all Give me a glad, young heart Thaf, spite of winter snows, And summer suns, Looks up and sings As the eternal, flower-strewn April hills. fr eae TE secretaryships offer remunerative positions. Prepare for a Secretarial Position The girl who has just finished scheol, can take courses at this Business College that will give her the ability to get and hold remunerative positions. Day and night classes in typewriting, shorthand, office practices and business English. Call Was. 1812 or drop in for an illustrated catalog. CLASSES ARE NOW FORMING L. D. S. Business College AN iL a) SPECIAL We offer The New Westinghouse '"*Adjust-O-Matic"' Iron latest design with special features affords you Finger-Tip Control of Ironing Heat For the price of $8.50 delivered. For out of town customers we will pay express charges Modern Electric Go, 128 South State Phone Was. 2307 SALT LAKE CITY 7, \ Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders. Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 _ 39 Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah ~ When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY LARK UTAH ' Beneficial Insurance-- and Why? NOT ONLY DO YOU RECEIVE ALL | THE GUARANTEES WRITTEN IN OUR POLICIES, BUT IN ADDITION YOU SHARE IN THE PROFITS OF THE COMPANY This Participating Insurance SOLD AT OUR OLD NON-PARTICIPATING RATES Insuring the Best there is in Life Insurance { And Issued By 7 The Big Home Company ja eh fl g 4 say %e,,, - © Beneficial Life Insurance Cu. = HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr.;: ee ie es When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine carcno™ Hamme Office, Vermont Riulding, Salt Lake tare, tal:: r ae < "oO Ka - I Ih 2 <= = 4 {2 —— Vl gy" UA ES. Se cy - c 7 ad \) Summer Excursion Fares Southern Pacific Lines TO CALIFORNIA POINTS To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS § 4 0 00 a Via SAN FRANCISCO ooo ccc ing direct or route reversed. To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO return- $ 47 HO) | Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY MAY 15TH TO SEPT. 30TH FINAL RETURN LIMIT OCTOBER 31ST For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT PHONES WAS. 3008—3078 PROTECTION FOR. THE CHILDREN Do You Know the Beneficial Life Now Provides Insurance Protection for the Entire Family? Policies Issued on Any Insurable Risk—From One Day Old to Age-Sixty-Five, Our Juvenile Insurance is Written on the Standard Form Basis, Giving Insurance for the Children That is Really Worth While. PARTICIPATING INSURANCE AT LOW NON-PARTICIPATING RATES Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home Office, Verinont Building, Salt Lake City, Utah THE BIG HOME COMPANY Vermont Bldg. Salt Lake City HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 41 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY