
To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS via SAN FRANCISCO $40.00
Ask your dealer for the famous Z. C. M. I. Factory-Made
MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS
For men, youths, boys and children.
9-oz. Copper-Riveted WAIST OVERALLS
For men and boys.
Wear 'em and let 'er buck.
Guaranteed for Quality, Fit and Service
ALLOVERS and PLAY SUITS for Children
For Unsurpassed Preserves Use Utah Sugar
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS SPRING LINE
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers of spring wear:
No. 1—New style, ribbed lgt. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number $1.25
No. 2—Old style, ribbed lgt. wgt. Cotton, our standard summer wgt. $1.25
No. 3—Ribbed med. wgt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number $1.90
No. 4—Ribbed heavy wgt. unbleached cotton. Our double back number $2.25
No. 5—Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number $3.00
No. 6—High grade rayon wgt. tricosham silk. For particular people $4.00
No. 7—Light wgt. new or old style, mercerized silky finish $1.75
No. 8—Ribbed heavy wgt. unbleached cotton and wool. Our 50% wool number $4.25
No. 9—Ribbed med. wgt. wool and cotton. Our light weight winter number $4.75
No. 10—Ribbed light weight men's and ladies' summer garments, new and old style 75¢
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
FACTORY TO YOU—THE ORIGINAL
Utah Woolen Mills
Briant Stringham, Manager
28 Richards Street ½ Block South of Temple Gates
Wedding Announcements and Invitations
Be sure to see us before ordering your announcements or invitations. If you are unable to come in, don't hesitate to write for samples and prices. You should entrust this work to a firm that assures you the newest in style and correctness in taste. Our line is complete.—Printed, Process Embossed, and Engraved. Prices are right.
The Deseret News Press
29 Richards Street
Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
147 Spring Needle Flat Weave, a popular Lt. Wt. $1.10
278 Medium Rib 1.20
208 A Good Number, Lt. Wt. Rib 1.35
32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt. 1.50
222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes 1.65
258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.95
628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt. 2.25
264 Rayon Silk, Fine Quality 3.00
748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.00
754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.25
908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75
1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton 4.00
BARTON & CO.
Established in Utah 45 Years
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City, Utah
Temple and Burial Clothes
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.
General Board Relief Society
Phone Wasatch 3286
29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton Knee length $.75
No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs .85
No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot. 1.10
No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle 1.85
No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle 1.35
No. 64 Ribbed Med. lt. Cot. 1.35
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. bleached 1.70
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back 1.70
No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached Double Back 2.15
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 3.35
No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool 3.85
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
Wool and Silk Stripe 4.65
Knee Length 2.35
Long Sleeves and Legs 2.85
WHITE SHIRTS Cutler's Fine Quality Collar Attached or Without $1.95
BLUE SERGE SUIT $37.00
HAND BAGS BRIEF CASES
SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c.
CUTLER'S
GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
DISTRIBUTOR FOR
Sager Metal Weatherstrip
For Doors and Windows
ROLSCREENS — Ideal for Casements. The World's Finest Screen.
BOSTWICK—Goodell Venetian Blinds. More Light and Air — Without Glare.
INSULATION for CEILINGS—Warmer in Winter—Cooler in Summer.
PORCELAIN TILE
Something New in Tile
From Cottage To Skyscraper
WHEN you install Sager Metal Weatherstrip, you are assured of these comforts and savings:

Room comfort. No draughts to chill you.
Quiet. No rattling windows, open or closed.
Fuel savings. Reports 25%-40%.
Clean walls, furnishings. Less housework, decorating costs are cut.
A written guarantee that pledges performance of every promise. By a Home Company. Recommended by Leading Architects and Contractors.
Write for full particulars
Address
R. E. BREWER CO.
135 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah
Radio Station K. S. L.
Or this Publication.
TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices.
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

CONTENTS

Monument to Handcart Pioneers Frontispiece
Handcart Trail Vesta Pierce Crawford 347
Impressions of My Mother, Marinda Allen Bateman Pioneer of 1853 Julia B. Jensen 348
He Discovered South Pass Dr. William J. Snow 352
Editorial—Ruth May Fox 359
President Louise Y. Robison's Birthday 360
Honor Paid to Barbara Howell Richards 361
A Spiritual Life 362
The Pioneers 363
Willard Greene Richards 364
Autobiography of Caroline Josephine Ballantyne Farr 368
Grandma's Quilts 376
Autobiography of Margaret Miller Watson De Witt 378
Pioneer Days of Payson Emma C. Curtis Simons 384
Mary Hood Johnstone Ruff 391
A Needle in a Haystack Josephine G. Moench 394
The Pioneers 395
Pioneers Lois V. Hales 396
Notes From the Field 399

VOL. XVI JULY, 1929 NO. 7
MONUMENT TO HANDCART PIONEERS
By Torleif S. Knaphus.
This piece of art is in the Bureau of Information, Salt Lake City.
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XVI JULY, 1929 No. 7
Handcart Trail
By Vesta Pierce Crawford
My boy, I walked across the plains, Where now the cars rush by; I walked across the barrier plains, Where now the airships fly!
You cannot know how far it is, With hills and deserts whirling past; My steps have measured every rod, My body bedded on the sod!
You cannot know how far it is; You hear the throbbing motor's sound; I've listened to the cart wheels creak— The tramp and tramp of bandaged feet!
I know how far it is.
MARINDA ALLEN BATEMAN
Impressions of My Mother, Marinda Allen Bateman A Pioneer of 1853
By Julia B. Jensen
"Her voice was ever soft, Gentle and low, an excellent thing in woman." —Shakespeare.
King Lear's impression of Cordelia is my strongest impression of my mother. My memory is filled with beautiful thoughts of her; but in any picture there must always be her gentleness of manner and her quiet, unobtrusive way with others. Her voice, soft and low, was yet firm and commanding. I do not recall ever hearing her laugh aloud, though she would laugh heartily. Song
IMPRESSIONS OF MY MOTHER 349
often surged through her soul, though it seldom broke out on her lips. When it did, it seemed more like the crooning of a lullaby than an outburst of feeling. Like Cordelia, she could be indignant at wrong and injustice, and contend for that which she felt to be right. She was tolerant, however, of weaknesses in others, and very humble in her estimate of herself. To my knowledge she never indulged in gossip, nor in unbecoming stories. We were taught to be kind to strangers, loyal to friends, and, as nearly as possible, to be just to those who were not our friends. If ill-report of a friend or an acquaintance came into our home, mother and father alike asked us to withhold judgment until we knew more.
A Home that Sheltered
Essentially a home woman, the first of her duties was to her children. I was the thirteenth and last child, and I marvel now at the quiet way in which she secured cooperation and kept the home machinery working. There were numberless things to be done on the farm—meals to be prepared not only for the family but for visitors; our home always open to acquaintance and stranger alike, no one ever turned from the door hungry or shelterless—and we were seldom alone. I can recall being wakened in the night, taken out of my bed along with one of my sisters, crowded into another bed already seemingly full, that ours might be replenished with fresh linen and given to some late caller who had been delayed on the journey. Some friends lived with us for weeks and months. I recall, also, the long dining table in the log cabin kitchen at which we sat. It was here during the conversations at mealtime that we learned some of our most valuable lessons in life.
Had the Gift to Believe and to Heal
Another strong impression concerning my mother was of her unbounded faith. This she imparted to us in many ways, but more often by example than precept. Often when we were ill and she bent over us caring for our needs, her lips moved in silent prayer. With the soothing touch of her healing hands, and faith in silent words, we dropped into a restful sleep to awake much better. A natural-born nurse, her services were often called for in cases of desperate illness. In homes where there were contagious diseases—and in those days there was no quarantine—she did all she could, taking the simple precautions she knew and returning to her family without fear. I think in no case did we suffer greatly because of the risk she encountered. Many people testified
350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the healing touch of her kind hands—hands that were required to do so many kinds of hard work in the daily routine of pioneer life, but never seemed tired of doing and giving. Because of her ability in caring for the sick, she was urged by friends to take a course in nursing and midwifery under Doctors Margaret and Ellis R. Shipp. This she did when I was a child. The service she rendered in that little community, and in the neighboring town where professional medical service was difficult to secure, cannot be estimated. Hundreds of babies came safely into the world under her direction; hundreds of women loved her for the aid she gave. It often meant long journeys of from ten to fifteen miles in all kinds of old-fashioned vehicles; it meant loss of sleep, days away from her family for a financial remuneration so pitifully small that I cannot bring myself to write it down. This fact affects me deeply; because through this labor, and only through it, she was able to educate me to be a teacher. I trust that in some small measure I fulfilled her expectations and returned a little of the much she gave to me. The debt can never be paid.
Drove Oxen Across the Plains
Marinda Allen Bateman, my mother, was the eldest daughter of Daniel R. and Eliza Martin Allen. She was born June 21, 1838, at Jamaica, Long Island, New York. Nine years before her death she wrote, "On June 5, 1853, I started with my parents from Council Bluffs to cross the dreary plains, a thousand miles to Great Salt Lake Valley. I helped father drive three yoke of cattle. On June 21, while crossing the plains, I was fifteen years old, and on September 9, of the same year we arrived in Great Salt Lake City. Father settled at West Jordan and ran the flour mill for Archibald Gardner. On November 27, 1854, I married Samuel Bateman."
Her Public Work
When the first Relief Society was organized at West Jordan by Bishop Gardner, my mother became the president; she did her work with humble sincerity until she was released. At later dates she served as counselor and again as president. When the Jordan Stake was organized, January 21, 1900, she became the first president of the Stake Relief Society, with Hilda H. Larson and Agnes Cutler as counselors. She held this office six years. She did not crave public work; a certain reticence of manner made her timid. But the people who worked with her knew her worth, and her friends were many.
Generous and of Good Courage
In her life she had few material comforts. But she never
IMPRESSIONS OF MY MOTHER 351
felt so poor that she could not give the greater half if not the whole of her small possessions to one in greater need. Giving was a joy; her only regret was that she did not have more to give. Quiet as she seemed, and timid in meeting people of the world, she had tremendous courage. She did not know physical fear. In the early years of her married life, she had many opportunities to develop this courage. They lived in a lonely place and had troubles with the Indians. For weeks at a time, father was often away from home, but mother had no fear. In the presence of illness or accident she had a steady nerve, and in a crisis she was calm. She never failed us at any moment of our lives. How secure we felt in her presence; how her absence could depopulate the village!
Her Last Great Battle
The last struggle was a courageous one. Long months of illness she met with cheerfulness, but with great solicitude for those who cared for her. It was not the way she had wished to go; but since she could not choose, she met death with the same heroic spirit she had exhibited in life. The final scene came on the evening of March 18, 1919, at the home of my sister, Mrs. Armanta Egbert, at West Jordan. Mother had been sitting in her chair all day. Shortly after she retired, she knew the summons had come. She called my sister who frantically tried to give aid. Mother calmly refused any stimulant, saying that it was time and that she was ready. She left her blessing for all of us, and in a few minutes, tasting death courageously with her eyes open and conscious to the last second, she passed on to rejoin our father, who had preceded her.
The old home is gone, but home will ever be where mother is. The words of Ruskin, in "Sesame and Lilies" beautifully fit my mother and her ability to make a home: "And wherever a true wife comes this home is always around her. The stars only may be over her head; the glow-worm in the night-cold grass may be the only fire at her foot: but home is yet wherever she is; and for a noble woman it stretches far around her, better than ceiled with vermilion, shedding its quiet light far, for those who else were homeless."
God's rarest blessing is, after all, a good woman.—George Meredith.
He Discovered South Pass
THE ADVENTURES OF JEDEDIAH STRONG SMITH THROW NEW LIGHT ON THE OPENING OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN WEST
By Dr. William J. Snow
The story of the movement from the ribbon of American colonies on the Atlantic seaboard to the Pacific Ocean is the great American epic. The transformation of this primitive wilderness in the course of a century is one of the amazing facts in the world's history. Indeed, it almost seems that great cities, towns, hamlets, and villages sprang forth, Athena-like, from the "forehead of Jove." Among the pathfinders and trail breakers who paved the way for this marvelous development in the trans-Rocky Mountain West, none stands higher than Jedediah Strong Smith.
When the Western Empire Became Our Own
Who would have dreamed in 1776, when San Francisco (Mission Delores) was founded by Spanish priests and the whole trans-Mississippi West belonged to Spain, that within three quarters of a century the embryonic republic then commencing its struggle for independence, would own and control this whole region? Even the settlement and political incorporation of the trans-Allegheny West seemed then a remote possibility. A half century later, and a quarter of a century after the purchase of Louisiana, the Rocky Mountains were considered by many in the United States and outside, as an effective barrier to expansion beyond. At least it was considered impracticable if not impossible to attach this far western region to the United States.
What Wise Man Deemed Impossible
It was hoped by some of our statesmen that an independent republic bound to us by the ties of blood and a common political heritage would some day be established beyond the mountains, but farther than this they did not dare to dream. Thomas Jefferson in a letter to John Jacob Astor in 1811, said, "Your beginning of a city on the western coast (Astoria) is a great acquisition, and I look forward to the time when our own population will spread up and down along the whole Pacific frontage, unconnected with us except by ties of blood and common interest, and enjoying like us the rights of self government." Even less sanguine were some of our congressmen ten years later. Representative Tracy of New York in 1822, declared: "Nature has fixed limits for our nation; she has kindly introduced as our western barrier,
HE DISCOVERED SOUTH PASS 353
mountains almost inaccessible, whose base she has skirted with irreclaimable deserts of sand." Such statements might be multiplied. Even after this barrier had been measurably overcome and many Americans had ventured beyond, Daniel Webster declared, November 7, 1845, at the Whig caucus in Faneuil Hall, Boston, that he expected to see in Oregon an independent republic in the most "healthful, fertile, and desirable portion of the globe."
The Impenetrable Western Area
The English, too, felt that nature had barred the door to effective American settlement in the Oregon country. The reverend J. D. Driver, in an address delivered before the Pioneer Association of Oregon, 1887, related the following incident connected with the Hudson Bay factor at Fort Vancouver, the honorable Dr. John McLoughlin: "He (McLoughlin) used to say to Reverend J. L. Parrish, for all coming time we and our children will have uninterrupted possession of this country, as it can never be reached by families, but by water around Cape Horn. Mr. Parrish went on to say, being an Eastern man, 'Before we die we will see the Yankees coming across the mountains with their teams and families.' The doctor said: 'As well might they undertake to go to the moon!' * * * When a wagon train finally camped on this side of the Cascades, he went and conversed with emigrants, saw the dilapidated wagons, torn covers, jaded animals, and sunburned women and children, and when meeting Parrish on his return said: 'God forgive me, Parrish! But the Yankees are here, and the first thing you know they will yoke up their oxen and drive to the mouth of the Columbia and come out at Japan.' "
Discovery of the South Pass Was the Key
What wrought the great change? What made the impossible possible? Of course there are many contributing factors, among them the perseverance, persistency, and courage of the Western pioneer. But a most vital explanation, and one to which attention is now called, is the discovery of the South Pass—a discovery that changed the whole outlook for American settlement beyond the towering Rocky Mountains. Before this easy passage was opened, it was thought impossible, as suggested by Dr. John McLoughlin, for wagons to cross this formidable barrier. There are many claimants for the honor of this great exploring exploit. In 1856 the promoters of the candidacy of John C. Fremont for president, representing the new-born Republican party, claimed for him the distinction. Of course, in the light of well known history at that time, the claim was preposterous. Wagons had actually been taken over this easy pathway a decade before Fremont's expedition of 1842. It is much more difficult to
354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
decide, however, between various other claimants. But in the light of recent evidence, it appears that Jedediah S. Smith should be given the credit.
With Ashley in 1823
In the early spring of 1823, Wm. Henry Ashley, who the previous year had led a company of trappers up the Missouri to the mouth of the Yellowstone river, where a post was established for the winter, advertised anew for one hundred young men to join his forces for fur-trading operations in the Rocky Mountain fastnesses. Among those who responded was Jedediah S. Smith, who during the next eight years (he was killed by the Indians in the Cimarron Desert in 1831) proved himself one of the most remarkable mountain men of this whole romantic period. The company left St. Louis March 10, 1823. They reached the Aricara villages May 30; and on June 2, occurred a tragic Indian massacre in which young Smith played a most prominent part. After the Leavenworth campaign against the Aricaras, which followed this regrettable episode, Andrew Henry with the major group of the Ashley men, went back to the new post at the mouth of the Big Horn River; and, contrary to all previous accounts Jedediah Smith, it appears, did not accompany him, but led a small brigade over the Black Hills and struck the headwaters of the South Fork of the Cheyenne, thence westward near the headwaters of Powder, Big Horn, and Wind Rivers to the region near Fremont Peak (so named after) where the party remained for the winter.
Adventures of the Trail Breaker
It was during this trip and while still in the Black Hills that Smith had his famous tussle with a grizzly bear, being almost torn to pieces by the ferocious animal. With the nursing and care of his companions, and with almost superhuman courage and energy on his own part, he was up and leading his company in the course of two weeks. But some lonely and dangerous hours were passed at the camp fire in this Indian wilderness. Fears of toil and danger, of sleepless vigils, of weary marches without shelter or assurance of food, were before them, but they would not surrender. They had cut themselves off from civilization to try their fortunes in the twilight zones of the magic west lands, and with resolute purpose they carried on. Little did they know, perhaps, that soon their camp fires would light the way to settlement and that civilization they had left behind. They were to build better than they knew; for within another quarter of a century their pioneering efforts would lead to the creation of prosperous American states beyond the barrier over which they were soon to cross, and over which, following their new pathway, a continuous string of covered
HE DISCOVERED SOUTH PASS 355
wagons, carrying immigrants to Oregon, California, Utah, would be seen.
Opened the Way to Westward Traffic
Early in the spring of 1824 this little band, who had remained near Fremont Pass, east of the mountains, all winter, commenced their westward trek, still led by the intrepid Smith; and in the latter part of February crossed over the divide, at the point since known as South Pass. This simple statement of fact constitutes the crux of this whole narrative; for over the pass, admitting, as it did, an easy wagon route, the Oregon and California trails led a continuous stream of immigrants into the Great Basin and on to the Pacific slope until occupancy and possession of this whole region were vouchsafed to the United States. From the standpoint of historical research, this version, assuming it to be true, sets aside the various other claimants, such as Andrew Henry, John Hunter Rose, and Charbonneau, as well as Provot, Bridger, and Thomas Fitzpatrick. The last named, however, it should be noted, was with the Smith party, but not the leader. Recently some writers, notably the late Isaac Russell, have given the honor to the returning Astorians in 1812. The present writer, after a careful review of the evidence, is convinced that they, the Astorians, missed this pass by some ten miles or more. At any event, no practical results followed until after the 1824 discovery. Then this low depression became the gateway to the whole trans-Rocky Mountain West. The advantage, once so patently British, turned to the United States; and from this period on there was but little question as to who would eventually secure this region.
A Leader in the Western Wilderness
From this time on until his cruel death at the hand of savages in 1831, Smith was the leader and inspiration of every group with which he was connected in the exploitation of the Western wilderness. In the winter of 1825, some few months after Bridger, he, too, according to his own words, "fell on the waters of the Great Salt Lake." The next year, 1826, he led a small brigade from the Salt Lake rendezvous near the present city of Ogden, south and west through Utah and Southern Nevada to California and up the coast to San Francisco, returning in the summer of 1827 across the Nevada desert to Salt Lake and thence to the Snake. After but a short stay here, he again turned southward, leading another party, and traveled the same route to California and up the coast to Vancouver, where, after terrific experiences with the Indians on the Umpqua, where sixteen of his nineteen
GREEN RIVER
HE DISCOVERED SOUTH PASS 357
men were massacred, he received a generous and helpful welcome from the veteran Hudson Bay factor, Dr. John McLoughlin. Two years later, having left the mountains for good as he thought, we find him leading a caravan train (prairie schooners) from St. Louis to Santa Fe. The last seen of him he was riding a mule down to the dry land of the Cimarron River in search of water for the choking animals and thirsty men. According to the version given at Santa Fe some months later by the Indians, he reached the bed of the then dry Cimarron and began clawing out a hole with his hands. Water soon trickled through to slake his thirst. He drank and continued to dig, evidently to secure sufficient water for the animals, when the lurking Indians who had been watching all the while, fell on him from behind and soon riddled him with bullets and arrows, but not until he had whirled about and shot two of his assailants.
Able, Courageous, Religious
Thus passed one of the most courageous and God-fearing of mountain men. He was devoutly religious, and in addition to his fire arms always carried the New Testament next to his heart. Frederick Jackson Turner compares him in this respect to his great namesake, the Prophet Joseph Smith. In his short eight years of adventure in the mountains he accomplished more than any other of the noted group of mountaineers. On his two trips to California he approximated in his route the present Arrowhead Trail and Lincoln Highway, as well as the Western and Central Pacific Railway. He furnished information upon which were based the first relatively accurate maps of the trans-Rocky Mountain West; viz., those of Gallatin in his "Synopsis of Indian Tribes," and of Irving in his "Captain Bonneville." Add to his general exploits that of the discovery of the South Pass, the crowning achievement of his career, and certainly his name should stand high on the roster of Western explorers.
Historical Proof of the Claim
In the preparation of this narrative I have purposely omitted footnotes. However, substantial evidence can be furnished for every important statement. But here it is incumbent upon me to credit my source for the claim that Smith led a party of eight to the base of the Rocky Mountains in the fall of 1823, and in the spring of 1824 discovered the South Pass. This is contrary to all previous accounts. The basis for this part of the narrative is a work edited by Charles L. Camp and copyrighted by the California Historical Society, 1928, and published by A. H. Clark Company, Cleveland, 1928. The title of the book suggests its character and importance. "James Clyman, American frontiersman, 1792-1881. The Adventures of a Trapper and Covered Wagon Emigrant as
358 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
told in His own Reminiscences and Diaries." To this work the reader is referred for many interesting incidents and details. James Clyman was with Smith and his party when it crossed the divide and gives intimate details of the crossing. Moreover, he was one of the four men who circumnavigated Great Salt Lake in a boat in the early spring of 1826—a fact never before disclosed. Clyman, however, gives the date as the fall of 1825. Robert Campbell said 1826.*
*Pacific Railroad Reports, Vol. XI, page 35.
In the Shadow of the Temple
By Minnie J. Hardy
I sat alone in the shadow, For the flowers were very fair; I felt as though an angel's wing Was sheltering me there. I came to pass a pleasant hour— But stayed a while in prayer.
And they came and sat beside me, The pioneers, loved so well; I heard the voice of Brigham Young Clear as a silver bell— "As in the beginning, so today God reigns and all is well."
I love these mighty granite walls; They speak of other days, Of faithful souls who worshiped here, Now long since passed away. I walk with Beauty, Truth and Love When I come here to pray.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Kate M. Barker Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Marcia K. Howells
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS Manager LOUISE Y. ROBISON Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN
Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

VOL. XVI JULY, 1929 NO. 7
EDITORIAL
Ruth May Fox
Ruth May Fox is General President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. Her selection as head of the organization is eminently fitting, for she is an unusual woman. Not alone sympathy for but almost the fire of youth has been burning within her soul through the many years of her association with the presidency of the Y. L. M. I. A. Enthusiasm is a necessary part of all work that contacts the human family; in her life, President Fox has carried forward an amount of enthusiasm that is almost amazing.
The new president exhibits a striking combination of the practical and the ideal. Blessed with a large family of children, she has been a good, practical mother and an efficient homemaker. To this work she has added that transforming touch of the ideal which is apparent in the poems she writes and in the quality of her spirituality. Full of faith, full of belief in the triumph of right, she has a mental attitude which finds its growth in a perfect trust in our Father and in his plans for the righteousness and salvation of his children.
Associated with President Fox as counselors are Lutie Grant
360 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Cannon and Clarissa A. Beesley. Mrs. Cannon is a woman of much sweetness, of outstanding intellectual gifts, of broad sympathy and very noticeable refinement. She is deservedly beloved by the young people of the Church. Miss Beesley, in her duties as secretary, has had the opportunity to learn much concerning the workings of the organization. Every day of her life has been a day of experience in Mutual work, a day of collecting data in relation to it. She is known throughout the Church for her efficiency and ability to put over work successfully and in good season.
We can think of no wiser choice for the onward advancement of the work than that made by President Fox in the selection of her counselors. The Relief Society rejoices in their appointment; it wishes them every success, asking in all earnestness that the richest blessings of heaven may attend them in their labor of progress and of love.
President Louise Y. Robison's Birthday
We take this opportunity through the columns of the Magazine of extending greetings to President Louise Y. Robison on the anniversary of her birthday, which occurred May 27. Mrs. Robison is of English parentage, but was born in America. Perhaps if there is one month above another to which the English poets have paid tribute, it is the month of May; and if there is one month above another to which American poets have paid tribute, it is the month of June. President Robison's birthday comes at so propitious a date that it is possible in thoughts of her birthday to mingle the charm of both May and June.
On May 29, the members of the General Board observed her anniversary by going to the Temple and doing work for a list of her own people, submitted by her. We extend to Sister Robison the greetings of friendship, coupled with the wish that the richest blessings of our Heavenly Father may attend her in her responsible position as General President of the great Relief Society organization.
Honor Paid to Barbara Howell Richards
At her own request, and because of her removal to the state of California, Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards has received an honorable release from the General Board of the Relief Society. In recognition of her efficient work on the Board, she stood with President Williams and President Robison on the evening of the reception tendered President Williams during the Relief So-
EDITORIAL 361
ciety conference last April. In further recognition, a luncheon was given in Mrs. Richards' honor in the President's suite of the Hotel Utah, April 10. The luncheon was presided over by President Louise Y. Robison, who expressed her own appreciation for the quality of Mrs. Richards' work, and for her womanly worth. Each member of the Board accepted the opportunity to pay tribute to Mrs. Richards. It was a genuine pleasure for Board members to tell of the love and confidence that she had inspired in their hearts.
The committee having the luncheon in charge had contemplated some features of surprise for Mrs. Richards, but, meeting them at their own game, she had a corsage bouquet placed near the cover of each Board member, so that the whole affair was a real surprise party.
Mrs. Richards is possessed of so much personal charm and real genuineness of character that she naturally wins an abiding place in the hearts of those with whom she mingles.
The Dead
In olden times the main interest of life seemed to center in the dead. Kings sought immortality through their tombs; consequently, much of what we know in relation to the pharaohs of Egypt has come from the silence of the tombs. The great pyramids of Egypt, counted for centuries by historians as one of the world's wonders, are tombs in the desert. In the days of Imperial Rome, many elaborate tombs were built. Paris, which boasts many public buildings of beauty, has hardly anything else within its limits so beautiful as the Tomb of Napoleon on the banks of the Seine. Recently, because the remains of Field Marshal Foch have been placed there, this Tomb has been brought once more into great prominence.
Too much emphasis, no doubt, has been placed in the past on the building of tombs; yet it is part of the culture of every civilized nation to take care of the dead in a manner that indicates devotion and reverence for those who have been part of the great life stream of humanity, and who have made their contribution to the world's achievements. It is a reproach to any community to neglect its cemetery. Self-respecting, high-minded communities will see to it that the cemetery reflects credit and not discredit upon the people who are part of it. This does not mean that people shall be unduly extravagant.. We sense the truth of the statement that change is at all times a part of our life, that nothing is surer than that changes will come. It is not logical to suppose that changes are to come 362 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in every other mode of our life, and not affect the manner of our care for and burial of the dead. Consequently we are having a movement all over the United States for mausoleums that represent a better method of taking care of the dead at a price that is not inconsistent with our general progress towards higher ideals. In thus making of this earth a more beautiful place both to live in and to die in, we are in perfect accord with the idea of the poet Wordsworth, who wrote: "There is one great society alone on earth: The noble living and the noble dead." This being true, nobility should mark the manner of our death and burial as well as of our life and living. Sunflower By Elsie C. Carroll In desert places Lone and somber, dry and sere, Among the barren rocks And dull gray shrubs Where Nature's loveliness has been forgotten, You, God's after-thought, appear. You rise from out the dreary dunness, A star of hope?your petals all of gold; You do not droop your head Or hide your brightness In doubt or hesitance or fear; But gravely face the sun, Whose light you image, And, seeing you, We mortals are assured; Forget the drab and dullness of our deserts, And turn our faces to the sun. E'en though it may be hid, Your steadfast gaze Assures us it is there. MARTHA JANE Coray Lewis A Spiritual Life Comprising Certain Experiences of Martha Jane Coray Lewis 8 By Lamont Poulter, Eastern States Missionary The following paper given at a surprise party in commemoration of her 84th birthday, tells briefly the story of the life of Martha Jane Coray Lewis.; With happiness in our hearts, we meet tonight to show our love and respect to our dear Sister Lewis. This is her &4th birthday. We are proud to have her in our midst and we appreciate our association with her. Very few wards, we fancy, in the stakes of Zion or in the missions in the world can say that they have with them one who has known all the presidents of the Church. 364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This we can say of her, for as a tiny babe, Sister Lewis was held in the arms of our beloved Prophet Joseph Smith. This glorious privilege no one would appreciate more than she; for her faith in that man and his divine mission has never wavered.
Her Father Aided the Prophet
Sister Lewis was born in Nauvoo, February 19, 1844, the daughter of Howard Coray and Martha Jane Knowlton Coray, who were worthy people and exhibited great faith during the early persecution of the Saints. Her father, who was born in New York, being intensely religious and well educated, became dissatisfied with the various existing religions; and after hearing a sermon on "Mormonism" by Elder Joseph Wood, who was versed in the scriptures, he became convinced that his own church was not true. Desiring to know the truth, he sought the Prophet, talked with him, observed his actions. He soon realized that Joseph was not an ordinary man. He accepted the gospel, and, becoming well acquainted with the Prophet, took charge of his correspondence and helped him in the writing of church history.
Origin of the Revelation on Priesthood
Sister Lewis has related the following incident pertaining to the Prophet and witnessed by her father, Mr. Coray. At one time the Prophet was preparing an article for conference. As the writing progressed, he was impressed that mistakes had been made. He stopped work and told his secretary that he would correct it by the spirit. Pausing for a few minutes, he then stepped out into the center of the room and under the influence of the holy spirit, which seemed to radiate from his face, making his fathomless eyes appear as deep as eternity and filling the room with an atmosphere of authoritative power and spiritual serenity, he dictated a portion of the revelation on Priesthood, a truly heavenly communication. (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84.) This incident, related by her father, did much to strengthen the faith of Sister Lewis.
Results of a Wrestling Match
Another time, her father and the Prophet engaged in a wrestling match. The Prophet accidentally slipped, broke Brother Coray's leg, but set it himself, later calling in a doctor, who stated that everything was satisfactory. At the end of ten days, Brother Coray was able to walk. He said to the Prophet, "Brother Joseph, I am very glad you broke my leg, because you have never broken anybody else's leg and you know when Jacob wrestled with the angel, he asked for a blessing; so I should like to receive a blessing from you." The Prophet blessed him, telling him that he would marry, would have a large family and that his
A SPIRITUAL LIFE 365
wife would cleave to him more strongly than the cords of death; also that he would go to the Rocky Mountains and live to be an old man?all of which came true.
Conversion of Her Mother
Sister Lewis's mother belonged to the Campbellite church; she was not satisfied however, until she too met the Prophet, and was converted to the truth. Some time afterward she married Howard Coray. They lived in Des Moines, Iowa, later moving to Nauvoo, where their second child, Martha Jane, was born. It was here that her mother visited with Sister Lucy Mack Smith, and listened to many stories of the Prophet's youth. After his death, she wrote them and took them to the Prophet's mother for her approval. In listening to these experiences, we can realize just why Sister Lewis has been so faithful and firm in her testimony to the truth of the gospel. Her early home life saturated her soul with a living knowledge of the work of the Lord and the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith.
Made Blind by a Fall
When just a baby, Sister Lewis fell down the stairs and was seriously injured. She lost her sight. This misfortune greatly grieved the hearts of her parents. We see that pioneer mother standing in the doorway of her humble cottage, watching the play of her little girl, who, she realized, was handicapped for life. When the child played under the trees, with the birds fluttering near her, her older brother, Howard, filling her lap with rose petals, would tell her what the roses looked like. Dark her world must have been; but even in her blindness, she found happiness in her wonderful imagination. The mossy banks of silver streams, "where fairy castles stood and tiny elfin folk tripped lightly o'er the green" were all created by her from no better material than "the gossamer threads of a maiden's fancy." During her blindness she learned lessons in order?to keep everything in her room in its proper place; but in her mental house every thought and idea was stored away systematically. The family lived in Nauvoo until 1846. At that time severe persecution drove them from their home. They found a temporary place in Pottawatomie County, Iowa. Driven from here, they went to Kanesville and on to Grand Island, Nebraska; but there they were again in the midst of hatred and persecution.
The Miracle of Sight Restored
One morning, Sister Lewis's father came in and said, "I have an impression that if I baptize Martha Jane in a running stream once each morning for seven mornings she will regain her sight."
366 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
This impression he followed, and miraculously the child's sight was restored, to her own extreme delight and happiness and the untold joy and thanksgiving of her parents. At the time of this apparently impossible experience, she was five years old. At once she was ushered into a strangely beautiful world. She tells us that the clouds seemed like large, white, fluffy, moving pillows, and that she thought it would be great fun to take a ride on them. The flowers, the trees, the birds, and all nature, enchanted her life, holding her fascinated. Praising and adoring Him who had given her the desired blessing of light, her first testimony of God's great goodness unto her became a living reality.
The Great Adventure Westward
While in Nebraska, Presidents Taylor and Woodruff visited them, imparting new courage and strength to commence that great, that almost endless journey across the sands of a desert waste. They now prepared to undertake that journey. In the spring of 1850, with a six month's old baby they left their home and turned their heads toward the West, which, with all its perils, yet held for them the promise of a haven of peace and freedom. Buffaloes and Indians they encountered; privations and hardships they accepted; but, with eyes toward heaven and feet on the trail, they braved the unknown perils of the hazardous plains. In the fall of 1850 they reached their destination, regarding it as the reward of their tribulation, the pay for their hard labor and steadfast faith.
Thrills on the Lonely Prairies
Many thrills Sister Lewis experienced out on the wild and lonely plains. She says, "Having my sight restored, everything was glorious to me. We sat in the encircled wagons at night, with our cattle in the center to prevent the Indians from getting them. We had plenty of milk, bread, beans, and sometimes either fish or buffalo meat. We danced and sang, having many good times. The gold rush to California was on and many curious people came by, asking dozens of annoying questions. One time a man came up to mother with curiosity written on his face, but before he could say anything, she started out rapidly with 'I'm David Crockett's aunt. I came from the East and I'm going to the West. I think that man over there died with the small pox.' This seemed to suffice his curiosity, for he walked away and without a word. I suppose he wondered what was the matter with mother."
After arriving in Salt Lake City and securing a place of shelter, they began to help in the great task of making the "desert blossom as a rose"?the great undertaking in which many became discouraged. For several years Mr. Coray worked in the tithing
A SPIRITUAL LIFE 367
office; later he helped in the work on the temple. Sister Lewis stood on the ground where the sod was first turned for the foundations of that great edifice. Her life enfolds experiences which trace the growth of the small pioneer village to the second most beautiful city in the United States.
A Life Big with Experience
Her early life was devoted largely to Church work and, of course, to many other useful activities. As a little girl she organized a child's Relief Society; when asked what they could do, she answered sincerely, "We can sing, we can pray, and we can sew." In 1870, she was married to Theodore Lewis, a man of great ability as an educator and spiritual leader, devoted alike to his faith and to his loved ones. In perfect happiness and wonderful companionship they lived for twenty-nine years. They had ten children, five of whom are living. Sister Lewis is now with her eldest son, Theodore, who resides in Brooklyn, New York.
During her life, she has received many remarkable blessings. At one time, when critically ill, she was carried to the water, after a very wonderful blessing given by President Woodruff, to be baptized for her health. When she arose, she walked alone, unaided by human hand; for God had heard the blessing, had recognized her faith, and she was made whole. In a literary way, she has enjoyed success, having written a great deal; she also worked in cooperation with her husband in this field. In all the auxiliary organizations, she has taken active part, and many of her later years have been devoted to temple work for thousands of her kindred dead. Before coming East, she had charge of the theological work of the Relief Society in the University Ward of Salt Lake City. One day, when a call came for volunteer, short-term missionaries, she surprised every one by arising and offering to come out into the mission field to devote her time and strength to the work here.
She Carries the Torch of Truth
We are glad she is with us. She has made many friends here, serving in the Sunday School, the Relief Society, and in other activities in this field. We pray that our Heavenly Father will bless her remaining years with happiness and peace, crowning a life of righteousness. One friend said to her, "Surely your lighted candle is set so firmly upon the hill of your life that it cannot be hid; and all who meet you see it shining through your soul." We feel to voice the same sentiment, and we hope to catch the rays which come from that torch lighted by God and kept burning by its keeper.
The Pioneers
By Willard Greene Richards
Where winter's icy blizzards lashed; Where summer's sun blazed overhead; On nature's broad primeval plain Were camps of modern Israel spread.
By tyranny's ungodly host From civilization thrust apart, No hand to stay, none to redress, Nor yet to ease the aching heart.
The sick and dying prostrate lay, Oft none to heed their call. Mob-driven from their fields, their shops, Their homes, their earthly all.
By hope revived; by faith sustained; God-guided through their tears, So set they forth to lead the way? A band of Pioneers.
Faced they the West?its trackless plains, Its mountains grand and grim? A band of picked men brave and true, Strong both of heart and limb.
By day they toiled; by night they slept, But guards were placed with care,? Each morn and eve they homage paid And worshiped God in prayer.
When mighty river barred their way, Defiance in its roar, They plunged into its foaming depths Or bridged its waters o'er.
Where road was none they builded well; Like giant hand that clears, They wrought for those who followed them, Unselfish Pioneers.
Through rock-rimmed gorge they pushed their way; Through mountains' tangled wood, Where stately pines in majesty Like silent sentries stood.
At last their eyes beheld a scene Majestic, broad, and grand. The "Modern Moses" looked upon The modern promised land.
THE PIONEERS 369
He had been shown in dream divine, In troubled days agone, "It is enough, this is the place; This is the place?drive on!"
So spake he by the Spirit's lead, As did the ancient seers, And pondered they his every word Those faithful Pioneers.
So entered they the promised land And broke its virgin soil, And planting seeds, they made them grow By dint of patient toil.
Turned they the streamlet from its course And, guided from its brink, The water clear o'erspread the land And gave the earth to drink.
So founded they a commonwealth Within the valley broad, And chose a spot on which to build A temple to their God.
Their memory shall not be dimmed By time. Through all the years We'll honor them for what they wrought, Immortal Pioneers.
Special Announcement
The General Board of the Relief Society will offer two prizes of $100 each, one to be given for the best drama based upon the Book of Mormon; the other to be given for the best opera inspired or suggested by the Book of Mormon. Contest open to all who wish to make entries. Contest to close December 31, 1929. The rules of the contest will be published in the August issue of the Relief Society Magazine.
CAROLINE JOSEPHINE BALLANTYNE FARR
Autobiography of Caroline Josephine Ballantyne Farr
First, something of my parents and ancestors. Those on my father's side were of Scotland; on my mother's side, they were all of Norway.
SKETCH OF RICHARD BALLANTYNE'S LIFE
My father, Richard Ballantyne, was born in Whitridge bog, Roxburgshire, Scotland, August 26, 1817. When an infant, he was baptized into the Relief Presbyterian Church by sprinkling; later he was taught its doctrines. At the age of twenty-one he became an elder and later a ruling elder, whose duties consisted of visiting among the members with the priest, and looking after the finances of the church, in which labor he was greatly blessed. While still a young man he began his labors as a Sunday
CAROLINE JOSEPHINE BALLANTYNE FARR 371
School teacher, which work he continued the remainder of his life. He obtained his schooling between the ages of nine and fourteen, when he occasionally attended school, mostly in the winter months. At fourteen, he was apprenticed as a baker to a Mr. Gray, serving three years. At sixteen he was made foreman of the business, also serving one year as baker's foreman in Kelso under a Mr. Riddle. His former master dying, he purchased the business continuing it for five years in Earlston, but giving it up when he came to Nauvoo.
In his native land when twenty-five years of age, he joined the Church. On a beautiful moonlight night of December, 1842, he was baptized in the waters of the Leith. With his mother, two sisters and a brother, he left his native country in 1843, coming by way of New Orleans to Nauvoo. Here he became the manager of the Coach and Carriage Association, where many of the wagons and vehicles were built which aided the first immigrants across the plains to Utah. In 1846 he settled the affairs of John Taylor's printing establishment, operated a flour mill thirty-six miles east of Nauvoo, and also engaged in farming.
Other Events in Nauvoo
During the troublous times in Nauvoo he had many thrilling experiences. At one time for over two weeks, he was in the hands of the mob, suffering greatly from exposure and hardship, while his captors led him and his companions from one place to another in the secluded woods. The mob decided to shoot them. The ground was measured off and prepared for the bloody deed when the timely arrival of a warning messenger stopped the execution, the prisoners finally escaping.
At Winter Quarters, on February 18, 1847, he married Hulda Meriah Clark, daughter of Gardener Clark and Delecta Farrer. Their children are Richard, Alando, Delecta Ann Jane, David Henry, Meriah Cedenia, John Taylor, Annie, Roseltha, Isabel, and Joseph.
On November 27, 1855, he married Mary Pierce, daughter of Edward Pierce and Elizabeth Bennett. Children: Zechariah, Mary Elizabeth, Jane Susannah, James Edward, Eliza Ann and Heber Charles.
November 7, 1856, he married my mother, Caroline Albertine Sanderson. She had seven children: Thomas Henry, Caroline Josephine, Bertha Matilda, Catherine Mena, Jedediah, Brigham, Laura Elizabeth.
Early Work in Utah
On May 18, 1848, he started for the Valley, crossing the plains in President Brigham Young's company, which arrived in Salt Lake City the following September. In the first Pioneer Day celebration, held in the Tabernacle
372 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Square, July 24, 1849, he took a prominent part, presenting to President Young the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. He also acted as standard bearer to the twenty-four young men who constituted part of the President's escort.
As early as 1846 he was ordained a Seventy by President Joseph Young, and later a High Priest by Apostle John Taylor, which latter office in the Church he held to the day of his death, laboring with constancy and considering his duties a pleasure.
The Father of Sunday Schools
Sabbath School work was his chief delight. On arriving in the Valley, having secured a little home in the Fourteenth Ward, he obtained from his bishop permission to establish a Sunday School. There being no house to meet in for months to come, he built an addition to his home, doing almost all the work with his own hands, and there began the school. The first session was held on the second Sunday in December, 1849. Later the school was held in the Fourteenth Ward meeting house. Thus, under him, began the Sunday Schools of the Church. He writes: "I was early called to this work by the voice of the Spirit, and I have felt many times that I was ordained to it before I was born; for even before I joined the Church I was moved upon to work for the young people.
"There is growth in teaching the young; the seed sown in their hearts is more likely to bring forth fruits than when sown in the hearts of those more advanced in years.
"Furthermore, I have passed through much trouble, sorely tried by friends and foes; but through it all the Gospel has brought such a solace that I was very desirous that all the children of the Saints should learn to prize it as I did. From the very nature of our circumstances, I could see that the children were being neglected. I wanted to gather them into the school where they could learn, not only to read and to write, but of the goodness of God and the truth of the Gospel."
I heard my father relate a very impressive dream. He saw a large building in course of construction, and a number of little boys playing in and around it. Finally he saw an officer trying to catch them. One of them ran to my father, and with pitiful pleading looked up into the face of my father, saying, "Oh, teach me! Teach me! Teach me!" This dream made a strong impression as if pointing out his special work.
Missions and Travels
In 1852 he was called on a mission to Hindustan, India. After a long and perilous voyage he arrived at Calcutta with twelve other elders, on July 24, 1853. While on this mission he had remarkable faith-promoting experiences.
CAROLINE JOSEPHINE BALLANTYNE FARR 373
On the 25th of July, 1854, he sailed for England by way of the Cape of Good Hope, arriving in London on the 6th of December, 1854, thence making his way in charge of a company of Saints across the ocean to St. Louis. In the spring of 1855 he led across the plains a company of emigrants numbering about five hundred. With fifty wagons, all of them arrived in Salt Lake City in first class condition, on the 25th of September, 1855.
Upon his arrival in Salt Lake City, President George A. Smith said to him: "You have accomplished a journey around the world without purse or scrip and brought in your company with a band of music and flags flying." President Young immediately appointed him to a home mission in the well remembered "Reformation." To this work he devoted his time until May, 1857. Jedediah M. Grant, father of our beloved President Heber J. Grant, was his companion. At the time of Johnston's army, he was in the "move" south, remaining in Nephi two years. He was one of the first business men of Ogden, where, after a very active life, he died October 8, 1898.
THE MOTHER'S ANCESTRY
On my mother's side, my ancestors were all of Norway and belonged to the Lutheran church. Though they were in comfortable circumstances, they were very industrious and my mother was early taught to work. My grandmother would paint the house and the barn. The weaving was done at home, my mother assisting in the spooling and quilling. They also did all kinds of fancy work. After preparing the yarn, they made their own shawls, tastefully embroidering them in the natural colors of flowers.
Receiving the Gospel
Caroline Erickson Williams, who made her home with my grandparents about the years of 1851-53, tells how they came to receive the Gospel: "I was sick a few days and went home; while there I had a dream. I thought someone came to the Sanderson home (my mother's) and gave Mrs. Bertha Jacobson Larson (my great-grandmother) something that made her happy.
"After I returned to their home, a man who lived at the toll bridge asked us one night to come to his house and hear some ministers. We all went. As we approached the house we heard the elders singing. I thought it the most heavenly music I had ever heard, and such preaching!
"They were local elders, Jappa Folkman, Olson, and Hanson. The place was Ryvelsrod Onson, about seven miles from Fredrickstall, Norway. In about one month we were all baptized
374 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
excepting Mrs. Sanderson, who waited till spring. The elders were kept in prison all winter, where they converted the night watchman who carried food to them from the Sanderson home at night."
Her Mother's Narrative
"My grandmother, Bertha Larson, and I were baptized on the 27th of September, 1852, and my mother not till spring. On the 30th, three days later, I was to have been confirmed in the Lutheran Church, but instead I went to the priest and told him I had joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This angered him. It was he who had the elders arrested and put in prison, where they remained all winter.
"My father was a sea captain and was away a great deal. When he heard what we had done, he set a guard to watch our house. One night a mob of about 200 men gathered outside and demanded entrance, to see if the 'Mormon' Elders were secreted there. I had been to a meeting and I was compelled to stay outside until four o'clock in the morning, when they grew tired and left the place.
"Once when my mother was very ill, Brother Olson, one of the missionaries, laid his hands on her head and said: "In the name of the Lord thou shalt be healed." She was restored instantly, after which she enjoyed good health for a number of years.
From Norway to Utah
"On November 21, 1854, we left our native land. To leave our dear father, was one of the greatest trials we ever had to bear. During our voyage on the North Sea there came up a terrible storm, so severe that it was impossible to go on; we had to turn back to land three times, making no progress past a certain place in mid-ocean. Finally the sea captain of our company, numbering 400 souls, called us together and said to us, 'We are all fasting, and let us unite in prayer.' He offered a very humble prayer and immediately the wind turned. We were out of coal and had to depend on the sails, but the Lord answered our prayers and we steered straight to Hull, England. We went by rail to Liverpool, whence we set sail for America. After a safe voyage we landed at New Orleans, February 18, 1855. At Fort Leavenworth the cholera raged in our camp, four or five dying every day. Apostle Erastus Snow rebuked the Destroyer; after that time all were healed.
Life in Utah in 1855
"On the 14th of June, 1855, we started to cross the plains. I had to walk almost all the way. We arrived in Salt Lake City
CAROLINE JOSEPHINE BALLANTYNE FARR 375
September 7, 1855, almost a year after we left our home in Norway.
"Utah was then a place of destitution and poverty, the crickets having destroyed all the crops. Mother, grandmother, and I were alone, and I worked for our support, weaving, sewing, for one dollar a week. Flour was fourteen dollars a hundred and we had to ration ourselves to one biscuit a meal.
"When it looked as if we would starve, President Brigham Young told us to cook roots, weeds, thistles, etc., promising that they would be blessed until the grain came, after which they would be cursed or poison. Some that had learned to like the weeds, continued to use them and became very ill. During the Fall of 1855, mother and I gleaned, earning 25 bushels of wheat, which made us very comfortable for a year.
"On the 7th of November, 1856, I was married to Richard Ballantyne. About a year afterward, Johnston's army invaded our peaceful quarters and we had to move south. We lived at Nephi two years. On returning we found our homes just as we had left them. In 1865 we moved to Eden, Utah, where my husband became president of that branch. For seven successive years the grasshoppers destroyed our crops; then there came caterpillars that killed the crops. We were reduced to poverty, and for two years were again rationed."
My mother's public work was mostly among the sick. In the Primary Association of the 4th Ward of Ogden, she was first counselor for many years, acting as president most of the time on account of the illness of that officer. Later, my mother was made president and held that position a number of years.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CAROLINE B. FARR
I, Caroline Josephine Ballantyne Farr, was born the 30th of January, 1861, in Salt Lake City. Our home, on First West, was next door to one of the homes of Apostle John Taylor. When I was a babe, father moved his family to Ogden. In 1865 he moved part of his family to Eden, Ogden Valley, my mother and her children being among those who went there. My father gave the name of Eden to that little town.
Results of Early Training
I used to enjoy the walk from our humble little home on the farm over to the meeting house. Under Henry Talbot as conductor, choir practices were often held at my mother's home. At one of these practices, a leading singer, Miss McBride, lifted me up on the seat beside her to help sing alto; since then, with an occasional intermission, I sung in the choirs of the Church until I was over fifty. Sister McBride, one of my first teachers in Sunday School
376 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and day school, used to give us passages or chapters from the New Testament to memorize. I enjoyed these lessons. They developed in my soul, at a very early age, a love for the Savior. The first strong desire I remember having was that I might be like Him.
In Eden and Ogden
In the little town of Eden, the Indians, almost daily visitors, came with their berries, choke-cherries, and service berries which they gathered on the hills, also beads, and "swapped" for biscuit (bread), butter, meat and sugar. If our parents were home, we children used to be glad to see them come. It was here that my sweet little blue-eyed sister, Catherine Mena, died at about eleven months of age. Once when my father was irrigating a field, mother sent me to him with a lunch; he asked me to sit down in the shade of the willows and talk with him while he ate; before eating he returned thanks for the food. I never forgot the incident.
The fall before I was fifteen years of age I started to school to Prof. L. F. Moench; the next summer the trustees wanted me to teach school at Eden. How embarrassed and nervous I felt. And how incapable! I took the school and did my best. In the fall of 1876, my father moved his family back to Ogden, which has been my home up to the present time.
Married to Marcus Farr
February 2, 1882, in the Endowment House at Salt Lake, I was married to Marcus Farr, son of Lorin Farr and Sarah Giles. My uncle, President John Taylor, sent word to President Joseph F. Smith, who was counselor to President Taylor, to marry us first so that we might eat dinner with him at the "Guardo" house, his residence. We thought it a great honor to eat our wedding dinner with the President of the Church and his family. I had always esteemed him as one of the grandest and greatest men who ever lived. It was he who first called me by my new name. When it was time to catch the train he sent his coachman and carriage to take us to the depot.
At my husband's father's East farm our first child, Josephine, was born, February 17, 1883. In April, 1884, we moved to his West farm (Marriott) and lived there two and one half years. Here our son Marcus B. was born, April 11, 1885. In the fall of 1886 we moved back to Ogden and since then we have had three children: Lionel Ballantyne, born November 28, 1888; Beatrice Albertine, born April 24, 1892; Lorin Ballantyne, born July 1, 1896.
Experience with the Word of Wisdom
When about eighteen, I read an article in the Millennial Star
CAROLINE JOSEPHINE BALLANTYNE FARR 377
on the Word of Wisdom, the effect of it changing my whole life. I resolved there and then to keep it, feeling thankful and happy to find something I could do that was not commanded. About two years after this resolution I was taken ill with typhoid fever. After about three weeks, to all appearances, I died; my eyes and teeth were set and I was cold and stiff, but through the faith of my mother and the elders I was healed.
In the winter of 1882, I had the misfortune to fall on the ice and hurt myself internally. For several years I was not very strong; and would sometimes yield to the persuasion of friends to drink a cup of coffee or tea as an inducement to eat more. About this time President John Taylor attended our quarterly conference and spoke on the Word of Wisdom. I was greatly thrilled. On our way home we talked of the things we had heard. I told my mother and one of my sisters that I would recover my health by keeping the Word of Wisdom or die in the attempt. My sister could not have been so strongly impressed, for she said she would eat or drink anything that would make her feel better; but for the sake of my children and my own good I determined to obey this law.
When I was about to become a mother again, I dreamed I died. I saw my body lying on a stretcher and my husband and children standing around my body weeping, heart-broken, while my spirit, or I, stood in one corner of the room looking on. Seeing their great grief, I felt that I could not stand it, and awoke. When the time arrived for the birth of my child, I felt sure I would never arise from my bed again in this life unless the Father saw fit to spare me. My babe came and only through the power of the Priesthood was I restored. The battle for life was now on in earnest, and it seemed that all hell was let loose on me. Only by giving heed to the "hidden treasures of knowledge" as promised in the Word of Wisdom did I or my children escape. In this experience I had been mobbed and driven as literally as were the Saints by men in the flesh; my foes were from the unseen world, and where could I flee or where hide from such an enemy? I fled to the house of prayer as literally as the Saints were forced to flee to these valleys. From criticism by my own people I suffered keenly. All this time, or nine years out of the ten, I was asking people to pray for me, being ward president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. How could I hold such a position if I were not just right, or insane? But I have had also seasons of the most exquisite joy. My Father in heaven has been my friend, my joy, and my song. When I felt that I could not ask people to pray for me any more and that death would be preferable, I was told that the thing I was doing would bring the Millennium and so I was willing to carry on.
378 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Thankful for my parents, that they embraced the truth and have always been faithful; grateful to my Eternal Father for the desire He has given me to serve Him, I praise Him for the light of truth that He has given to me, and bless His holy name that He has delivered me in times of peril and danger. Glory, honor, praise, and majesty be His forever and ever. Amen.
Grandma's Quilts
By Elsie E. Barrett
My Grandma's quilts bring memories, Of years gone by when I Would sit and listen as I watched Her shining scissors fly.
She used some cardboard patterns true, To help her weary eyes; Then neatly filled her basket round With piles of ev'ry size.
She quickly fashioned, here and there, This patchwork into blocks; And I declare they made me stare! Those scraps from many frocks.
I see her artist fingers now, With pencil, string, and chalk; She'd deftly draw some butterflies, And birds, while we would talk.
Then on a big white patch I'd note, Some growing, clustered grapes, Or other fruit, or flowers sweet, In neat designs and shapes.
And later when she quilted them, Through fluffy cotton-wool, It seemed as though those birds might fly; The grapes were plump and full.
I've seen some quilts so beautiful Her busy fingers made From scraps that didn't cost a cent, Of ev'ry kind and shade.
I hope dear Grandma now enjoys, In some eternal sphere, Reward for all life's bruises, and For work she did while here.
MARGARET MILLER WATSON DeWITT
Autobiography of Margaret Miller Watson De Witt
I was born in Glasgow, Scotland, January 16, 1841; the youngest of a family of nine children. My father's name was John Watson; my mother's, Jane Hosea Miller Watson. Among my earliest recollections of my father, who died when I was a small child, is my seeing him wrapped in quilts seated in a chair, while I played peek-a-boo with him through the glass in our door. When I was about fifteen years of age my sister Jane, six years older than I, joined the "Mormon" Church and emigrated to America. The members of the family felt that by so doing she had brought great disgrace to our family.
380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Early Life in Scotland
My mother died when I was twelve years old, and I lived with an elder sister, Belle, who sold the place and rented one little room for the two of us. During this time my sister Jane wrote to me in care of a friend, Agnes McKay, urging me to attend the "Mormon" meetings and investigate their religion for myself. This I did secretly?going to the meetings when my sister supposed I was attending night school. I was able to attend several meetings conducted by the "Mormon" Elders before my sister discovered my deception, which she finally learned from the factory girls. Thinking she was doing the proper thing, she gave me a severe whipping and warned me not to go near the Elders again. However, this only served to strengthen my determination to find out for myself all about the "Mormons" and "Mormonism."
I still continued my secret correspondence with my sister Jane, who lived in Holyoke, Massachusetts; and she sent me money to pay my passage across the ocean. I remember going to the bank and getting the money which I concealed in the bosom of my dress in the day-time and in my shoe at night. Very soon after this I left my sister Belle's home. We had eaten breakfast, and I left as if I were on my way to the factory. I saw the clothes spread on the green to bleach (she had washed the day before) and I picked up my night-cap and slipped it into my pocket. This was all I took with me except the clothes I stood up in.
The Flight to America
I went directly to my friends, the McKays, who informed me that the next sail-boat would not leave for two weeks. I couldn't go back home to Belle, so my kind "Mormon" friends, the McKays, hid me up for two weeks in the home of a widow who boarded me; the McKays paid her for her trouble. During this time the McKays outfitted me with clothes for my journey. Bills had been posted and rewards offered for my capture, so, fearing detection, I disguised myself when I went to the sail-boat. Just before boarding the ship I posted a letter to my sister Belle telling her not to continue her search for me as I was on my way to America.
I crossed the gang-plank and entered the ship. Then I went below into the steerage until the ship had started. I then went up on deck and took a last fond farewell of my native land. I was overcome with conflicting emotions as I saw it disappearing from my sight. For, though I was glad and eager to come to America, where I could learn more about "Mormonism" and join my sister Jane, yet I felt sad to leave forever my native land, my brothers and sisters and friends. I extended my
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MARGARET M. W. DeWITT 381
arms and cried, "Good-bye forever, old home"; and the ship, the Isaac Wright, bore me off.
A Hard Sea Voyage
Soon after leaving I became violently seasick and lay on the bare deck for relief. Having taken nothing with me except my clothing, I had nothing to lie on. A young woman came near me, saying, "How's this? Haven't you any folks to look after you? But no, I mustn't talk; I must do something." She went to the cook-room and made a little tea and toast. As I partook of it, my stomach became settled, so that I could get up and around. Soon I became more adjusted to life on board ship. From Liverpool to New York, we were on the sailing vessel six weeks and three days. When we landed at New York the McKay girl's folks met us there. A large crowd was present as we were getting off the ship. I kept saying aloud, "O have you seen my sister?" I hadn't heard the popular song then being sung, entitled, "O Have You Seen My Sister?" At once some one in that great throng caught up the words and sang it while the whole merry crowd began singing and laughing.
At Work in a Factory
I took the train from New York to Springfield, Massachusetts, where my sister met me. Words cannot express the joy of our meeting. I went with her to her home in Holyoke. There I remained with her and a group of emigrant girls. We worked in a factory, earning the money to pay our way to Utah. Having had experience in working in the factories in Glasgow, where there were five hundred steam looms on one floor, I felt at home in the work. They started me out with two looms; when my sister saw that I could handle them easily and still have plenty of spare time, she said to the manager, "My sister is an ambitious little girl and I'm sure she can handle more looms when you can give them to her." They gave me four for awhile, but soon increased it to six, the most ever given to any experienced girls in the factory. I made it a point always to be prompt; and the watchman would laugh as he held his lantern so that he could see my face as I sat at the big doors each morning waiting for him to open them and let me in. The minute the engine started I was at my loom. Some of the girls were always ten minutes or more late; when they remarked at my higher wages on pay-day, it was pointed out to them that ten minutes each day will soon amount to dollars and cents.
Saving for Three Years
We received our pay in an office adjoining the factory. Here
382 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
two men counted out the money, which was held in a big, seamless sack. The books were opened and the numbers of the looms were given. Then the girls were paid in cash. As I received my wages, I often heard the men whisper to one another, "Is that the one?" I was small for my age and my skill as a factory hand was talked about among the workers. We worked in this factory for about three years. Our boarding house was managed by two old maid sisters who had rented a large house especially for factory girls. We paid them each month; and outside of our board, lodging, and clothes, we saved every cent for our journey across the plains. My sister left for Utah three weeks before I did, as there was not room for both of us in the first company. I handed to the president of the branch sixty dollars in cash to pay my way to Utah.
Baptism at Night: Crossing the Plains
Before leaving for Zion, however, I had been baptized and confirmed a member of the Church. My sister and I had attended regularly the L. D. S. Services in Holyoke. Each meeting strengthened my faith, though I had believed the Gospel to be true from the first time I heard the Elders preach it in Glasgow. On account of the bitter opposition manifest by the anti-"Mormons" there, my baptism was performed at night. When I was taken to the river the ice was broken, and there I was baptized.
I traveled across the plains with Thomas Lyons, his invalid wife, and five children. They had two hired teamsters, each driving a large wagon-load of goods. I took care of their five children and cooked every bite that was eaten by our outfit of ten, from the time we left Florence, Nebraska, until we reached Salt Lake City. I walked all the way across the plains, carrying the baby much of the time. Sister Lyons had to be lifted in and out of the wagon, and had a special chair to sit on.
Incidents of the Journey
As soon as the men would pitch tents each night, I would prepare supper over an open camp fire, then get the children to bed. Often I did not get much sleep, the mosquitoes being very troublesome, and causing the children to cry and fuss a great deal. I had never cooked over a camp fire; when I needed information I counseled with some of the older sisters, who were very kind and willing to help me. I learned to bake light bread in a bake-oven. From each baking, we saved a piece of dough for our next batch of bread. There was one death in our company?an invalid man who could not stand the trip. His body was wrapped in canvas and buried in a grave, by which a service was held. All along our way we saw graves which the coyotes had dug into. AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MARGARET M. W. DeWITT 383 I remember a marriage on the plains. After the ceremony we danced most of the night to the music of a fiddle. When about half way across the plains, I had to leave my new trunk because we were too heavily loaded. My clothes I put into sacks. We were three months crossing the plains, under the captaincy of Edward Stevenson. My sister heard of the company through the "Pony Express" and was. Ready to meet me. She had arranged for a place to work?for a Sister Elizabeth Howard, who lived eight miles south of Salt Lake City at Big Cottonwood. My sister had a place in Salt Lake City and we often visited. An Important Meeting With the first money I earned in Salt Lake City I purchased a new chest for my clothes. This was made by a Brother Thomas Ellerbeck, an excellent carpenter. I still have this chest and it is as good as new. The date of our arrival was September 16, 1895, with 350 souls and 150 wagons. That evening in the Howard home as I stood by the sink washing dishes, I noticed a young man come into the room?a tall, straight, handsome fellow. I nudged Sister Howard's daughter, who was wiping dishes, and asked, "Who is that?" "Don't worry. You may have him," she answered: I replied, "I don't want to fall in love." About six months later, when I was nineteen years old, this same young man became niy husband. I had no parents to go to for advice; so when he proposed marriage, I went to Bishop Brinton and asked him to advise me. His answer was, "You'll make no mistake, Margaret. If you marry Alec DeWitt." The Bride's Apparel Sister Howard had been like a mother to me; at the time of my marriage she dressed me completely in the very best. Of clothes. My wedding dress was a beautiful white, tucked all around the full skirt and trimmed with lace and white ribbon. Sister Howard engaged Eliza R. Snow and Sister Woodmansee to come to her home a week and sew on my wedding dress, sheets, pillow cases, quilts, and everything preparatory for my marriage. I felt like a princess to be so honored. The bishop, who was to marry us, was working on the jury that day; but he walked eight miles to our ward that afternoon in order to perform the ceremony that night. The New Home I had been afflicted with a sick headache during the afternoon and Sister Howard had sent me to bed. While I was there she and 384 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her daughters had fixed up our little two-roomed cottage, which Brother DeWitt had rented for our future home. I was dressed, in my wedding finery as we walked to the bishop's home where we were married. Then we went to our little home. I noticed that it was all lighted up; and when we entered, we beheld a table laden with a feast?roasted chicken and everything that goes with it. My bed was all made up with new sheets and pillow cases and the beautiful quilt that Eliza R. Snow and Sister Woodmansee had made. We then spent a happy evening with the Howard family and the bishop's family. Mrs. Howard was an excellent cook and the banquet she and her girls had prepared was delicious. Brother DeWitt had brought a load of furniture from Salt Lake City; it had been unpacked and put in place. The new dishes were in a cupboard he had made. All this was a surprise to me. Abel Alexander DeWitt Prior to our marriage, my husband had been investigating "Mormonism" and was really converted to it, but postponed being baptized because he didn't want it said of him that he joined the Church to get the girl he wanted. He was baptized about two weeks later. My husband, Abel Alexander DeWitt, was born October 6, 1826, in Perry County, Indiana. He had traveled extensively? had seen South America?and was on his way to California to seek his fortune. Although he had really feared stopping off at Salt Lake City because of the numerous warnings he had heard that if he did the "Mormons" would kill him, he finally stopped over and found a job at Howard's. There he investigated '"Mormonism" and embraced it. He died at Woodruff, Arizona, on September 16, 1913. The Children of the Household While living at Cottonwood we were blessed with six children: Lucy Jane was born March 28, 1861 and died at Salt Lake City July 16, 1923. Sarah Huldah was born March 26, 1863 and died November 18, 1904 at Lehi. Alexander was born October 1, 1865, aid is still living. Elijah Reeves DeWitt, born February 18, 1867, still lives. Elizabeth Catherine, born June 5, 1870, died April 29, 1904, at Thatcher, Arizona. Margaret Lenora was born July 20, 1872, and died August 13, 1873, at Big Cottonwood. We moved to Kanab, Utah, where our next three children were born: Martha Ann, born October 8, 1874, died December 29, 1879, at Kanab. John Daniel, born November 5, 1876, is still living. William Washington DeWitt was born January 10, 1879 and died December 1, 1907, at Woodruff, Arizona. AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF MARGARET M. W. DeWITT 385 Called to Arizona We were called by Church authorities to cross the Colorado and help settle Arizona, so we moved to Springerville, where our. Last three children were born: Rhoda Ellen, born March 27, 1881, died October 24, 1888. Jesse Dillis DeWitt was born April 23, 1883 and is still living. Mary Eliza was born July 24, 1885 and died July 24, 1885. When Jesse was about eight years old, we left Springerville ' and came to Woodruff, where I am still residing. When my last child was born, I was at death's door, but through the faith of the elders I was spared. Word went out: Sister DeWitt is dying. The elders left a 24th of July celebration they were attending; they came and prayed for me, and I rallied. Always a Relief Society Worker I was set apart as a Relief Society teacher after my first child was born. I have served as an active teacher in that organization ever since?a period of sixty-seven years. IJ am still an active teacher in the Woodruff ward. I used to go teaching in Big Cottonwood, carrying my baby on my arm. The bishop's wife, Sister Brinton, used to say, "Be sure to stop'last at my house." She would always have a delicious supper pieyeass saying to us, "The servant is worthy of his hire." Though I am now eighty-eight years of' age, I still enjoy working in the capacity of a Relief Society teacher?a calling that I consider one of the greatest. Editor, Relief Society Magazine: I am sending a life sketch of Woodruff's oldest resident, "Grandma" DeWitt, written as she dictated it to me. Her record as an active Relief Society teacher is perhaps unsurpassed. A loving, laughing, witty little Scotch lady, very active for her advanced age, she is usually present at the dances and social activities. A year ago I danced the Old Year out and the New Year in with her! Her constant attendance at Relief Society meetings, and her keen interest and active participation in the lessons, proclaim her fertile brain and sympathetic heart. Always eager to improve, she learned to play the organ after she was sixty-five years of age, to be able to accompany herself as she sang the songs of Zion; and though rheumatism has incapacitated her hands for playing, she often sings. Her greatest joy is reading. When she is at home, she is generally in her "reading nook" near her shelves of books by a light, cheery window. We love her for her gracious manner, her enthusiasm and optimism, her sincerity and courage?one of earth's chosen spirits. To this little community, her life is an inspiration?Eunice I. Gardner. Pioneer Days of Payson By Emma S. Curtis Simons "Brother Brigham is coming! Brother Brigham is coming!" The happy message was repeated in every home in the village; and added to that was the request from our beloved bishop, jlohn B. Fairbanks, that our town be put in order and everything be made clean. We had three days' time, the work falling mostly to women and small children, as the farms claimed the time of the men and larger boys. Our wood yards were a sight to behold! At least a wagon boxful of chips was raked up and then the yard was swept. Farm implements were put out of sight. Corn cribs were put in order that the play school might open as soon as all was quiet again. The houses were as clean as homemade soap and improvised brushes could make them; our windows were as clear as the atmosphere. At last the day arrived. Brother Brigham had said that when he gave his time to visit the people he wanted to see every man, woman and child in each community. A boy on horseback was stationed on the hill to the northeast, with a white towel tied to a stick, which wa's to be waved as a signal of the approach of our guests. An hour's waiting, and the flag was waved. We were there, on each side of the street, the line extending as far as our numbers would permit?mothers with babies in their arms (who had ever heard of a baby carriage?); mothers and daughters in calico dresses and sunbonnets; men and boys wearing hats made by the thrifty housewives from straw carefully laid aside the previous year; little boys with pants that had been made long, worn short, exposing bare feet and legs so brown one would have guessed they belonged to the natives. Soon the carriages passed slowly down the line, with President Young and company bowing as graciously to us as if we were members of the royal house of England. That evening we held our meeting im the one small public building; the message was of cheer, good will, faith, hope, and the reward that comes from well doing. President Young blessed us as a father blesses dearly beloved children. On one of the late visits made by President Young to the southern part of the territory, he was accompanied by his old friend, Colonel Thomas L. Caine, who was in poor health. It was hoped a winter in Dixie's mild climate would prove beneficial to him. Col. Caine was a small man, educated, refined, a gentleman in every sense of the word, with eyes that spoke volumes. There is something attractive in friendship, but it touches the divine when it exists between such men as Col, Caine and President Young. Protective Values of Pioneer Foods By Jean Cox Although the food supply of the pioneers was extremely meagre compared with the variety and abundance of our present markets and storerooms, the protective values were present in proportionately greater amounts than they are now found in many of the. Present highly refined foodstuffs. In pioneer times, methods of food manufacture were necessarily simple. In many cases dire necessity demanded that all or practically all of the available foods be used. Waste of foodstuffs was considered unethical if not worthy of greater punishment. While the pioneer sometimes ate food that did not especially appeal to the palate, both hunger and great need prevented encouragement of many food fancies or idiosyncrasies which ordinarily tend to limit the variety of foods eaten by the individual or group. What Are the Protective Foods? The term "protective foods" simply means those that contribute to growth, reproduction, and healthful maintenance. Foods of this class are relatively high in ash, vitamins, and certain kinds of protein. When any diet fails to supply these important foods, although it may be adequate in terms of energy requirement, there is necessarily a decrease in the degree of well being and the rate of growth. Where the diet, over a considerable period of time, is noticeably deficient in vitamins and ash, there is a corresponding decrease in resistance to disease as well as a lowering of general well being. Where a limited diet, furnishing but a few of the protective foods, is the rule, there is a general tendency to colds and to a run-down condition in the spring. Because of the impossibility of having a variety of protective foods all of the year, it is generally conceded that the kinds and amount of illness among pioneers were proportionately greater in the spring than at other seasons of the year. This low resistance to colds and other germ diseases always results where the late winter and spring diets do not contain sufficient foods that are high in the vitamins and ash. Food Economies in Pioneer Times Owing to the difficulties in getting to markets as well as to the low available money income in pioneer life, the farmer's bank account was evidenced in the wheat and potato bins, cattle and sheep herds, and the family storeroom or cellar. Part of the responsibility of the housewife was to portion out the foodstuffs so that the supplies would extend to the following harvest or 388 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE future source of supply. It was therefore necessary that food consumption conform to the strictest standards of economy. Fortunately for the pioneers, potatoes were usually cooked with their jackets on, thus making available the valuable ash constituents close to the skin, which are frequently lost in our present methods of preparation. [Fruit butters also conserved more ash than do the present day jams and jellies with their relatively high contents of sugar. High Values in Parts Now Discarded When an animal was killed for food, common custom made good use of different parts of the carcass now frequently discarded. While the preparation and consumption of brains, blood pudding, head cheese or scrapple, as well as the wider use of internal organs, extended the meat supply of the family, these facts alone do not tell all of the story. Recent scientific study has shown that the parts of the animal used from necessity by the pioneers had proportionately greater food value than the present generally accepted choice of muscle meats. Thus necessity again furnished some degree of health insurance to people having a meager food supply. It is interesting to note that muscle meats compared with the rest of the edible carcass are surprisingly rich in protein of a superior quality as well as in ash and vitamins.: In cereal consumption among pioneers, two factors contributed | to the use of practically the entire grain. Probably the biggest, reason was the limited production of both wheat and corn?-a condition that made it necessary to eat practically all of the available grains. The limited amounts harvested were far too precious for human needs to allow much waste or to use grain as food for farm animals. Andther factor was that the crude milling of grains removed only the two outer coverings, the bran and shorts. Frequently, however, both of these were used for food. While the supply remained limited, it was common custom to use so-called "shorts," and frequently some of the bran, in bread making. Rough Foods Enhance Growth This custom contributed to the health of the family, since the outer coverings and germ, which are now removed in milling, furnish a fairly good source of ash and vitamins. Big business evidenced in centralized milling has made it necessary to prepare flours with better keeping qualities than those formerly produced, which contained the germ of the grain. Recent studies give convincing evidence that vegetable oils from the germs of wheat and corn are valuable for vitamin D, which is the vitamin considered necessary for reproduction. From PROTECTIVE VALUES OF PIONEER FOODS 389 a nutrition standpoint, there is considerable argument against the common custom of limiting the use of cereals in the diet of ? highly milled flours, which are deficient in both vitamin and ash. The argument may be emphasized by stating that in pioneer times the wider use of the entire grains as food afforded more protection than do the more refined flours of the present day. It is good nutritional practice for the family or the individual to make habitual the use of cereal, including some of the whole grains or else the parts of grain not found in highly milled flour. Food Value of Molasses Cane molasses, another pioneer food that merits discussion, is a form of sweet furnishing a means of buying health by the gallon or barrel. At the Iowa Experiment Station, careful feeding experiments with white rats show that cane molasses contains greater food value than either beet molasses or sorghum. A diet sufficient for the growth of white rats was supplemented with five, ten, or fifteen percent of cane molasses; the results, carefully studied, proved that the addition of the molasses noticeably increased the rate of growth of the rats. It was shown also that, with rats fed on diets including molasses, more young were born and a larger percentage of young were reared than when the molasses was not used. The experiment, extending through several generations, furnished satisfactory proof that, aside from its high sugar content, molasses is also rich in vitamins and ash. In comparison with the 100 percent pure cane or beet sugar, which is valuable merely for energy, molasses is a food rich in vitamins and ash?elements that make it valuable for both growth and reproduction. While honey is higher than sugar in ash and vitamins, the proportion of these is considerably less than in molasses. One of the chief nutritive values of honey over sugar is the fact that a more easily digested form of sugar is found in honey. Values in Cereals and Datry Products Among pioneers the consumption of cereal was proportionately high, the consumption of sweets low, as compared with present standards of consumption' of cereals and sugars. According to recent estimates the average per capita sugar consumption in this country is 115 pounds per year as compared with the average consumption of 11 pounds in 1827. The amount of sugar consumed has rather steadily increased. Recent and careful studies: indicate that the low sugar consumption by the pioneers had some advantages over the present high intake of various kinds of sweets and confections. The more generous use of milk, butter, cheese, and eggs had distinct nutritive value in pioneer diets. This class of perishable 390 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE foods was in those times an important part of the family food supply. These foods, exceptionally rich in vitamins and ash, contain also superior varieties of protein. When used to supplement cereals these proteins from milk and eggs are more valuable than protein from other sources. Thus the generous use of dairy products and whole grains in addition to the consumption of green and root vegetables furnished building material for good teeth and strong bones. While the pioneers, from necessity, frequently used "greens" to supplement the scanty supply of staple foods, this exigency should be considered, in the light of modern science, as a health contribution. The general acceptance of mustard, wild spinach, beet and turnip tops as a part of the diet from early spring into summer gave a certain degree of health protection and helped to establish a wider range of food selection among pioneers. A Good but Meager Fare Though the pioneers were often tired of their limited fare, and though there have been, unquestionably, some rather serious results from restricted diets, yet it is safe to say that the higher values of the common foods of the pioneers as compared with the more highly milled and refined foods of the present time, did much to give them health, the courage to fight Indians, and the endurance to wrest their living from raw and unbroken lands. It is not the purpose of this article to idealize pioneer foods, nor in any way to give the impression that in the early settlement of this State it was comfortable to be cold, hungry, or to have only half enough food; but the fact remains that the common table resources of fifty years ago contributed food elements to the average diet which have now been removed by the competition and the economic necessities of big business. It is an accepted fact among nutrition experts that both present and future generations are bound to suffer from the results of a diet composed largely of highly milled white flours, refined sugar, and fats. During the different manufacturing processes much of the ash and vitamins have been removed. In some cases these products have been put on the market in a more easily marketable form, but in other cases these so-called unrefined parts of the foods have been widely used in feeding cattle and fowls. Cattle breeders and poultry men realize that the outer coverings of grain, and molasses from beet sugar, are very valuable to them. The present high cost of perishable fruits, vegetables, and dairy products is a factor limiting generous consumption of these foods in many homes. In order to insure satisfactory nutrition for the family, these facts need to be brought frequently to the attention of the housewife until protective foods are considered a necessary part of the family diet. Mary Hoop JOHNSTONE RUFF Mary Hood Johnstone Ruff There are always places in the world where pioneering must be done. In any form of pioneering, women who can fit into the many situations, and particularly those who appear to have intuitive ability to care for the sick, are invaluable. Such a woman was Mary Hood Johnstone Ruff. Her path in life led her into one of Utah's mining camps, where many foreigners live, and where pioneer work must always be done. In addition to the usual difficulties of life in a mining town, she chanced to be living in Scofield at the time of the appalling disaster. She was one of the heroines who fought through that terrible period of misery, bringing relief to the suffering and comfort to the stricken ones of that unexampled calamity. Born in the quaint little town of Bathgate, Scotland, April - 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 27, 1854, Mary was the daughter of Nicol and Angelina O'Neil Hood, who were among the early converts to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in that land. When we think of a family of eleven children to be taken care of, and the crippled father of the home under the necessity of providing for them all with the use of only the thumb and two fingers of the left hand, the struggles and privations of this family can be visualized. A portion of Father Hood's left and the entire right hand had been lost in a mine accident. At the birth of Sister Ruff's youngest sister, the mother died; and the responsibility of a mother was taken over by Margaret, who acted in this capacity for a little over a year, or until the father also had passed on, From this time on it was Sister Ruff's lot to rear this family, with the exception of an older sister, who had married. Through Mary's teaching and example all the brothers and sisters became active Church workers; and through her labors and savings she was able to send this entire family to Utah, in accordance with her mother's dying request. On June 26, 1879, she married Samuel Johnstone, by whom she had three children?two daughters and a son, two of whom survive her?Mrs. Alfred Newren of Salt Lake City and Mrs. W. D. Stillman of Denver. Together they worked in the cause of truth and continued to assist the Hood family in their endeavors to settle in Zion. In June of 1891 her husband passed away, and once again the entire responsibility of rearing a family was upon her shoulders. With her youngest sister, Angeline, whom she had reared from babyhood, she opened a restaurant in Glasgow, and was able to save sufficient means so that in May of 1892 she left Scotland with her three children and sister, arriving in Salt Lake City during the following month?the triumph of many years of faith and work. In the following November they moved to the town of Scofield, and for the past thirty-seven years this has been her home. Leaving the old world did not cool the ardor she had shown in the work of the gospel. It was not long after her arrival in Scofield that she was chosen as counselor in the Primary Association; in this work she labored for over five years. Her chosen field, however, was that of a relief worker. She had been called upon to rear her father's family, her own family; and after a few years in Scofield, her brother John losing his wife, Sister Johnstone for a long time mothered his two children. Her life's work after arriving in Utah was destined to be that of nurse and comforter, both to members of the Church and to non-members. Her children grew up in Scofield with her, MARY HOOD JOHNSTONE RUFF 393 following their mother in the paths of righteousness. Her sister Angeline married and had a family. Then, in May, 1900, occurred the great Scofield Mine Disaster, in which 203 men and boys lost their lives. During these terrible times she was one of the most active among relief workers, assisting in preparing the bodies for burial, and in ministering to the injured. Her sister, Angeline, lost her husband at this time, making it necessary for her sister to find employment; and once more 'Mrs. Johnstone mothered another's family. Shortly after this great mine disaster, in November of 1900, she was called upon to pass through one of her severest trials, when through an injury, her sixteen year old son, Andrew, was called to the other side. In 1909, Mary Hood Johnstone was married to Bishop George Ruff of Scofield, and together they have faithfully served the people of their ward. Mrs. Ruff was active in Relief Society work for nearly forty years, serving as president of the ward organization at Scofield for more than twenty-five years. On May 10, 1929, she died at Scofield. Because of her untiring efforts and her unselfish devotion to God's work and to the relief of suffering among her fellow citizens, Mrs. Ruff lives in the memory of those whose good fortune it was to come in contact with her. High ideals, noble aims, and genuine character?these qualities have become an inspiration to those who lived near enough to know her well. Regardless of color or creed, she cheerfully administered to the needs of all, and was never too busy. Nor was any hour too early or too late for her unhesitatingly to answer the call to service. ' e Wherever we may be born, in stately mansion, or in flat, or tenement, or under the humblest conditions, we are pretty much alike, and it would be a rash man who would try to measure brains by the cost of the nursery. Go anywhere you will, there is a humble soul demanding a fair chance, having the right to know what has happened in the world, having the right to be enriched with the stories and poetry of life, having the right to be inspired by tha deeds of men of force who have lived amid struggles in the past, having the right to be shown the way upward to that wholesome life which is absolutely independent of circumstances and which is strong and successful because it is the life of a man or a woman doing a man's part or a woman's part in the world which is fairly understood ??Charles Evans Hughes. A Needle in a Haystack By Josephine G. Moench feeling that my end is near, I have a desire to chronicle some of the important events of my life. As far as I have been able to learn I am the only needle that was ever found in a haystack. This fact together with other in: portant and interesting happenings connected with my career gives me a desire to write a brief history of myself. Life in its fullness began for me when I reached the end of a long journey from Salt Lake City to a little town in the southernmost part of the State of Utah. As the boxes were being unloaded from the covered wagon and carried into the little store and unpacked, I heard a charming little voice say, "Oh, Mother, here are the knitting needles, can you set up my knitting tonight?" and the mother answered, 'I will if there is a set of needles left after those that we promised get theirs." I rejoiced that I was in the bottom of the box, for I longed to have for my mistress the little girl with the charming voice. I had not long to wait; before nightfall the little girl in a rapture of delight was carrying me and my three companions home. "Father says these are to be my very own," the little girl said as she ran to show her mother. My little mistress was to knit first some stockings for herself; and how delighted she was as she ran with her knitting to show her little sister, near the same age, who lived next door. These little sisters were inseparable companions; together they made their plans for the summer, talking of the stockings they would knit. What a delightful summer I spent with them. When I look back on it now, it seems that my three companions and I were the most important things in these charming little girls' lives. Every cozy little nook would be converted into a playhouse, and their knitting seemed to be the most important part of their play. In haying time, a favorite place to sit and knit was the stack of newly made hay, and one day I slipped from my littld mistress's hand into the hay stack. Search as they would, they could not find me. Oh, the tragedy of it! To wait for another set of needles to come from Salt Lake City would mean weeks, and the little sister would be whole stockings ahead in the knitting race. They searched and searched, but still I could not be found. Suddenly my little mistress said, "Let's pray the Lord to help us find it." Kneeling on the hay and bowing their little heads, they said their simple prayer. Scarcely had they begun their search again when they found me; and like the woman in A NEEDLE IN A HAYSTACK 395 the Bible who lost her silver and found it, they were happier thau if I had never been lost. When my little mistress related the incident to her mother, the latter said, "Perhaps you had better exchange needles with me. Yours is an extra fine set and I would be very sorry to have one lost." So I was transferred from my little mistress's knitting to that of the mother's. I soon learned to jove the little mother as I had loved my little mistress. I have rejoiced in her happiness and mourned over her sorrows. Her knitting seemed to rest her in body and in spirit; and as she sat knitting in the evenings after the hard trying days which only the pioneer women of Utah could know, happiness and peace would come and a serenity which only a patient and courageous soul can know. I began my memoirs as I lay where the dear hands had left me the night she slept peacefully away to awaken no more in this life; and I thought my cup of happiness was full when I saw her pass to the great beyond with no suffering. Another great happiness was to come to me. I am back orice more in the hands of my first little mistress, herself a grandmother now, and I look forward to spending many more happy hours with my first love. I listen with pride as she sits with her knitting and relates to her grand-children the story: of how I was lust and found in a haystack. The Pioneers Dust and heat, a trackless waste, Moving covered wagon train, Dull, slow thud of oxen hoof, Hunger, danger, thirst and pain. Onward, on, inspired band, Hearts that burn with truth and light; Blazing sun and dust by day, Lurking savages by night. Westward ho, to hills and vales, Westward ho, to promised land, Sage brush, rocks and dead salt sea, Alkali and oaken sand. Faith to light their dreary way, Truth to brighten miles they trod; In the shelter of the Rockies, They were free to worship God. Pioneers STANLEY VESTAL'S KIT CARSON?THE HAPPY WARRIOR OF THE OLD WEST By Las V. Hales "On Christmas Day, 1809, an undersized, tow-headed, bandylegged, blue-eyed boy sped into the world, squalling lustily with an uncontrolled excitement which no later adventure could arouse in him. Small, bandy-legged, blue-eyed, and sandy-haired he remained to the end of his days, and to this unimpressive appearance the sun added freckles." Yet this boy, apparently no different from other lads of his family and community, was to be the archetype of the American pioneer. He was to become the hero "who personified American enterprise in the Far West?the banner which was to wave the pioneers forward into the Great American Desert." He was to become the hero of the prairies, the "soul of the Old West." In Stanley Vestal's new book, "Kit Carson," we have the authentic story of this boy as well as a vivid picture of the old frontier?the pioneer West. It is artistically, vividly, and authentically written. It follows Kit Carson down through his life as greenhorn, mountain man, plainsman, pathfinder, soldier, rancher, Indian agent, patriot and peacemaker. Even as a very young boy Mr, Vestal felt that there was something wrong with the standard biographies of Kit Carson, which portrayed him as a striking but unaccountable hero. These books did not relate Kit to the times he lived in, and he therefore seemed unreal and colorless. Mr. Vestal felt that now was the time to write to the adventures of Kit for soon "there would be no one who had talked face to face with his contemporaries, no one left who knew what a tepee smells like, or how a beaver trap was set, no one to make real the background out of which his adventures grew, and against which they must be seen." As Odysseus was a symbol of the Greek seafarings, so Kit Carson has become a symbol of the American frontier and it is important, Mr. Vestal says, that we "understand and love the thing Kit represents?that Frontier which made these States a Nation." Mr. Vestal knows the country over which Kit Carson ranged. He grew up with the Cheyenne and Arapaho Indians, the tribes that Kit knew best. Today Mr. Vestal is Professor of English in the University of Oklahoma and a writer of note. The Carsons had been pioneers since the first one left Scotland. Very early Kit saw the cruelty of life in the wilderness, and PIONEERS 397 his quick impulsiveness became "tempered by caution which nicely balanced the swift decision and passionate action so characteristic of the man." Kit became very early an expert trapper and Indian scalper. During the long winters while he could not trap beaver, Kit and his companions would tell stories around the fire. Here Kit heard of the "giants who lived on an island in the Great Salt Lake, giants who built immense log houses and ate corn from cobs a yard long. What folks thought to be forest fires was only the smoke from their pipes." Another story that fascinated Kit was that of a crystal mountain so beautifully clear that its location and size could only be guessed by the stack of bones of animals and birds which had broken their necks by running into it. Still another was the story about the echo in the Big Horns, which took eight hours to return, so that a man when going to bed could shout "Get up!" and next morning he would be promtly awakened by the echo "Get up!" During these long winters Kit made many friends and they were real ones. The very life Kit and his companions led called for real friendship. Kit won the reputation of absolute truthfulness and reliability. "The clear eyes and clear head, the unquestioning blue eyes of a man who first made sure he was right and then went ahead?these gave Kit Carson the character which made him the power he was among the trappers." As to the Indians Kit entertained no "silly twaddle" regarding humanity or their rights. He had been brought up to believe that every man should look out for himself. He killed no more Indians than was necessary; and all who knew him are agreed upon his mildness, gentleness, his chivalry to women, his courage, his coolness against hopeless odds, and his generally inoffensive manner. He was superstitutious. If he missed a fair shot in battle he would not fire at the Indian again but let him go. His ideas, according to Mr. Vestal, were childlike, traditional, unquestioned beliefs. He believed in God, in the right, in courage, honor, integrity, justice, and mercy. He belongs to the Old West and not the Wild West, which was the age of clowns and gunmen, the bandits and the land-grabbers, the gold-seekers. The blowing up of Bent's Old Fort marked the end of the Old West and Kit and his old friends saw the plains and mountains swarm with reckless, ignorant, stupid, untrained, undisciplined white men who incensed the Indians and brought on unnecessary and stupid bloodshed. Kit accompanied Fremont on part of his journey to St. Louis, where he delivered his Report, which determined the "Mormons" on their Westward march. Mr. Vestal closes his really scholarly and intensely interesting book "Kit Carson" with this paragraph: "But there was no pose in Kit Carson; and the West may hold his name high above the movie cowboys, the Wild West showmen, 398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the gaudy, strutting soldiers, the cruel killers, who clamor down the old, loyal, patient courage of the pioneer. For Kit was greater than all of them. "This is the happy warrior; this is he That every man in arms should wish to be." Hallowed Ground By Merling Denms Clyde O Death, where is thy victory? This plot Marked round by iron rim speaks dumbly here: Observe this resting place of pioneer. The right to worship as she chose, her lot She cast with those who marked an epoch great? Out West where freedom with their lives could mate; Made history in blood to seek their God, And fell, like her, a parcel of the sod. And when the great steel monster hewed its line Upon uncharted range and desert grim, Directly where warm rain and bright sunshine Caressed the snows on lonely grave's round rim? Great minds debated?gave her right-of-way; She sanctified the spot there where she lay. Rebecca Winters was a "Mormon" pioneer, enroute West with other Saints. She died and was buried in Nebraska. An iron wagon rim, with her name upon it, was placed around the grave. Later, when the Burlington Route came West, the grave was found to be directly in the line of its survey. When the railroad president was asked what was to be done, the answer came back, "Rebecca Winters has the right-of-way". Later, a monument was placed at the grave, and these words from a "Mormon" hymn engraved upon it: "And should we die before our journey's through, Happy day; all is well; We then are free from toil and sorrow too, With the just we shall dwell." Notes From The Field In Memoriam. It is with feelings of great sadness that we have to report the death of Sister Lillie Belle Gledhill, president of the Sevier Stake Relief Society, which occurred May 1, 1929, (Sister Gledhill has served most faithfully and efficiently since her calling to this offce in June, 1913. In all her work she demonstrated the finest type of service, and that which is the materialization of the real Relief. Society spirit. The welfare of her Relief Society sisters in the whole community was ever the! First thought in her mind, and she gave herself, with heart and soul, to the tasks before her. There was always the very finest type of cooperation in the stake over which Sister Gledhill presided with the General Board of Relief Society, and every effort was made to/carry out, to the fullest extent, the instructions that were sent from the general office. The spirit of love and faith manifest throughout all of Sister Gledhill's life was eloquent of her life's ideals, viz., efforts to serve her fellowmen. President Louise Y. Robison, and every member of the General Board join in extending condolence to Sister Gledhill's family and her community, in the passing of so beloved and worthy a woman. REORGANIZATIONS There have been a number of reorganizations in the Relief Society in the various stakes: Emery Stake. On April 28, 1929, at a stake conference, President Louisa Oveson, at her own request, was released as president of the Emery stake. The General Board of Relief Society wishes to congratulate Sister Oveson on the nineteen years of excellent service she has rendered in the capacity of stake president. Called by President Reuben G. Miller, before the Emery stake was divided into the Emery and Carbon stakes, as it now is, Sister Oveson has served and given the very finest efforts of a faithful Latterday Saint in the discharge of her duties. In retiring from this position, at her own request, Sister Oveson carries with her the love and best wishes of every sister in her community, and can certainly take with her into her retirement the feeling that she has completed a worthy labor in the service of her fellowmen. Ata stake union meeting on May 11, 1929, Mrs. Margaret Peterson was sustained as president of Emery stake; Mrs. Nellie Tuttle as first counselor; Mrs. Eva Killpack as. Second counselor; Mrs. Minnie Ungerman as secretary-treasurer. 400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Juab Stake. At the recent quarterly conference the Juab stake Relief Society board was reorganized, and the following officers sustained: president, Mrs. Edna J. Cazier; first counselor, Mrs. Florence H. Chase; second counselor, Mrs. Ethel C. Gass; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Anna D. Allred; and the following board members: Maud Forrest, Lillian Cowan, Ethel A. Irons, Chloe N. Bailey, Elizabeth Pace, Laura D. Brough, Ellen C. Cole, Vivian Hoyt, Etha B. Parkes. San Juan Stake. The San Juan stake Relief Society was recently reorganized. Mrs. Lucinda A. Redd, after years of fine service in behalf of Relief Society was released as president, this action at the request of Sister Redd herself. In her retirement from the office of stake president, she carries with her the love and appreciation of all the sisters of her stake, for service nobly rendered in the cause of humanity. The new executive officers of San Juan stake are: Mrs. Hattie R. Barton, president; Mrs. Margaret C. Perkins, first counselor; Mrs. Marian G. Nielson, second counselor; Mrs. Marian P, Nielson, secretary-treasurer. The members of the stake board have not yet been selected. Weber Stake. The most recent news of reorganizations coming to the office is from Weber stake. At the conference of the Relief Society of the Weber stake, held at Ogden, May 7, 1929, President Marianne M. Browning was honorably released as president of the Relief Society on account of poor health. At the regular meeting of the Stake Presidency, High Council and Stake Board held May 15, 1929, Mrs. Katherine G, Wright was chosen as president of the Relief Society, with Mrs. Charlotte Jacobs as her first counselor. The other counselor, secretary-treasurer and board members are yet to be selected. South African Mission, A most interesting caller at the Relief Society office recently was Mrs, Clara A. Martin, recently returned from the South African mission, where she has served as president of the Relief Society. Her missionary experience began in April, 1926, and for the past three years she has labored in this far distant field. In leaving the South African mission Mrs. Martin felt that she had left it in good condition; there are many obstacles to be met in this field, but she feels that the sisters are doing the very best they can under the circumstances. There are five organizations of the Relief Society in the South African mission, with a membership of sixty. While it is necessary to make some changes NOTES FROM THE FIELD 401 in the Jessons as given in the Magazine, as far as possible every effort is made to put into effect the general plan of study and work as suggested by the General Board. Woodruff Stake. Many people have an idea that it is impossible to grow flowers in some parts of our western wilderness, but the very splendid effort made in the Woodruff stake Relief Society last year, is an answer to that question. During the class leaders' convention of the Woodruff stake a remarkable demonstration of what can be done in the way of growing flowers was given. Dahlias, roses, zinnias, sweet peas, in fact the most attractive type of flowers were in great profusion as evidence of the untiring energy of the Relief Society sisters in this work of beautifying the home and community. All the wards in the Woodruff stake were represented at this Reunion, which was a combination of demonstrations of Work and Business Meeting, of Community Beautification, and of Teacher-training, quite typical of the activities of the Relief Society. The interior of the L. D. S. Chapel presented a most beautiful sight when it opened for the Saturday morning of the Relief Society reunion and bazaar. The rostrum appeared to be a veritable flower garden, and the walls of the building were covered with needlework of all kinds, representing what the members of the Relief Society are accomplishing during their leisure moments. Vegetables, too, were on display, all of them grown by the women, whose work was interesting and instructive in all departments of this exhibit. Prizes were offered by the business houses of Lyman for the best showing by community and individuals, and it was very fine to note that each community excelled along some particular line, which resulted in the prizes being widely distributed. Big Horn Stake. During the past season the Big Horn stake Relief Society has certainly been active in all its departments. Some new branch and ward organizations have been completed, and a plan for departmental work has been worked out. The officers are enthusiastic about their work. The stake board is getting out a handbook containing general information that every Relief Society member should know in regard to the history, organization, aims and activities of the Relief Society of the whole Church. In the back of the book will be many suggestions that will strengthen the testimonies of the sisters. The aim of the book is to give a better understanding of the scope of the Relief Society and arouse pride in its membership. The wards have accepted the new plan for visiting teachers, and are working it out very successfully. 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE South Davis Stake. During the spring a very successful exhibit of needlework was held in the banquet room of the Bountiful First Ward amusement hall. Each of the eight wards of the stake was well represented. Every available space was utilized and presented a beautiful appearance, displaying to advantage the many useful things made by the South Davis Relief Society women. At the March union meeting flowers and shrubs was the subject of an interesting discussion conducted by a local nurseryman, and his advice to the women will be most useful in the work they hope to accomplish this summer. The Relief Society song practice has been featured during the year, both at the union meetings and in the wards, and most gratifying results are in evidence. "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy" By C. O. A. The night of July 28, 1926, is long to be remembered by the thousands of Angelenos who had the rare privilege of attending the "Mormon" Tabernacle Choir concert at the Hollywood Bowl. It was an idyllic night, without a cloud in the sky. A slight, cool breeze stirred the leaves on the trees; the sweet fragrance of the wild flowers filled the air. As it was a moonless night, the stars in the mighty vault of heaven shone with unusual brightness. The famous Holywood Bowl, reconstructed at the expense ef hundreds of thousands of dollars, presented an awe-inspiring sight. It is a depression scooped out by the hand of Nature in the Hollywood hills, and finished by the hand of man until it resembles Valhalla, or some such idealistic meeting place of the gods. In short, the time, the place, and the occasion formed a perfect setting for a scene such as is very rarely enjoyed by the average human being. When the powerful lights were turned on at 8:30 p. M. And the lack and white figures of the famous choir were discernable upon the stage, a thrill went through the audience; and when they raised their united voices in the beautiful song, "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy", it seemed that the very hills of Hollywood joined in the shout of praise as the echoes from far and near rebounded back and thrilled the great audience again and again. It was a sight and occasion never to be forgotten; and the twelve or fifteen thousand Angelenos who had the esteemed privilege of being present that night, went away with the conviction that one thing of which the "Mormon" Church may justly be proud is the great Tabernacle Choir. Your Future Bids You Prepare While you are yet young for the Great Opportunities which are sure to knock at your door Brigham Young University Offers Hundreds of Courses in Five Colleges APPLIED SCIENCE COMMERCE ARTS AND SCIENCES EDUCATION FINE ARTS FALL QUARTER BEGINS SEPTEMBER 16 Foundation Courses Leading to all the Professions Are Offered by a Strong Faculty Member of the Association of American Universities The 1929-30 Catalogues are now out Address Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH Seven That Times Champion Elated of the Feeling World This is your feeling when you are leaving an O. P. Skaggs System Store after Ee having completed your  shopping. Our store is resplendent with seasonable fruits and vegetables, choicest of teas and coffees, and of course all the staple and fancy groceries. Bring your next shopping list to our store at Magna. O. P SKAGGS FOOD t STORES For Sale by Utah Power & Light Co. and Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 E. 3rd So. St. Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine p= tinge v) and Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City shopping. Our store is your next shopping list to Efficient Service System MAGNA This Happened in Rigby, Idaho as Our salesman was in a store in Rigby, Idaho, and overheard the following conversation: "I want a can of Pork and Beans." "BLUE PINE?" "Yes, I want SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans." "Lady, you really like BLUE PINE Pork and Beans?" "The last can we bought of SCOWCROFT'S BLUE PINE Pork and Beans were the best Pork and Beans we have ever eaten." Scowcroft's BLUE PINE PORK & BEANS are made from those large, Great Northern beans, cooked through and flavored with a liberal piece of fresh pork and covered with a delicious tomato sauce that we make from our own recipe, which has not been duplicated by any other packer of Pork and Beans. Another part of kitchen drudgery can now be done away with. Buy Blue Pine Pork and Beans and Jet the can opener reveal a wholesome, satisfying meal. "We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz, kidsAt Less. Than halt YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at?a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health. CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. Ist So. Was. 2177 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine USE BENNETT'S PROPERTY LIFE INSURANCE PAINT PRODUCTS During "Clean-up" Time this Spring Made in Utah by Bennett Glass & Paint Co. BOOKSHOPPING ?the thrill of personal selection | that gives added pleasure ? for your enjoyment of books at home come in write us for a list of the kind of books If you canno that will give you pleasure as well as profit. Deseret Book Company 44 East On South Temple ON GUARD ands on guard over the Insurance interests of its Are you fully protected? Have you enough FIRE INSURANCE UTAH HOME FIRE INSURANCE CO. Heber J. Grant & Co. Gen'l Agents, Salt Lake City, Utah See our agent in your town. This Company stands on guard over the Insurance interests of its customers. Are you fully protected? Have you enough Fie Insurance Utah Home Fire Insurance Co. Heber J. Grant & Co. Gen?l Agents, Salt Lake City, Utah See our agent in your town. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine P. O. Box 1793 Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY LARK UTAH ? 