Southern Pacific Lines
OFFER Special Round Trip Winter Fares TO CALIFORNIA POINTS
To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS via SAN FRANCISCO $50.50
To LOS ANGELES via SAN FRANCISCO returning direct or route reversed $58.00
Proportionately low fares from all other points in UTAH, IDAHO and MONTANA.
STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS.
TICKETS ON SALE DAILY—OCT. 1st TO MAY 15th
FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS FROM DATE OF SALE
For further information CALL, WRITE or PHONE
PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT
41 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY
PHONES WAS. 3008—3078
Resolved—
That my mind shall be put at ease during 1929—for I shall obtain sufficient LIFE INSURANCE to adequately protect my dependents.
I shall insist on that insurance being BENEFICIAL issued by The BIG HOME COMPANY
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE
HEBER J. GRANT, President
E. T. RALPHS, General Manager
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
142 Flat Weave, Light Weight $1.05
208 Carded Cotton, Med. Light 1.45
32 Combed Cotton, Light Weight 1.50
222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes 1.75
258 Double Carded Cotton, Med. Weight 1.95
628 Mercerized Lisle, Light Weight 2.50
108 Unbleached Cotton, Med. Weight 1.85
264 Rayon Silk $4.50
217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe 2.25
748 Unbleached Cotton, Heavy Weight 2.00
754 Bleached Cotton, Heavy Weight 2.25
908 Unbleached Cotton, Extra Heavy 2.75
1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton 4.00
BARTON & CO.
Established in Utah 45 Years
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City, Utah
Special Sunday Bricks and Neapolitan Bricks 25c pt., 50c qt.
Call Your Keeley's Dealer.
BEST EVER
Extra packed in ice.
TEMPLE AND BURIAL CLOTHES
COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Variety of Grades and Prices.
Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M.
GENERAL BOARD RELIEF SOCIETY
Phone Wasatch 3286, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed Extra Light Cotton Knee length $.75
No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs .85
No. 74 Ribbed light weight Cotton 1.10
No. 84 Ribbed Mercerized Lisle 1.85
No. 76 Ribbed light weight Lisle 1.35
No. 64 Ribbed Med. light Cotton 1.35
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Heavy bleached 1.70
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Heavy Unbleached Double Back 1.70
No. 56 Ribbed Heavy Cotton bleached 2.15
No. 55 Ribbed Heavy Cotton Unbleached Double Back 2.15
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Weight 50% wool 3.35
No. 39 Ribbed Heavy Weight 50% wool 3.85
No. 37 Ribbed Med. Weight 60% Wool and Silk Stripe 4.65
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
WHITE SHIRTS Cutler's Fine Quality Collar Attached or Without $1.95
BLUE SERGE SUIT $37.00
HAND BAGS BRIEF CASES
When ordering garments please state if old or new styles desired, also if for men or women and if old or new style. Also give bust, height and weight.
We give you a liberal discount on three pair of garments or hose bought at one time—10% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c.
Postage Prepaid.
Cutler's
GARMENTS LONG WEARING CLOTHES
36 So. Main
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids—
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health.
CLOVER LEAF DAIRY
159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
PLAN NOW FOR SPRING PLANTING
Make a Beauty Spot of your Grounds this Summer. You can do it if you will plan now and be ready when Spring comes.
Write For FREE SEED AND NURSERY BOOK
It tells How, What and When
Porter-Walton Co.
Seed and Nursery Specialists
SALT LAKE
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

CONTENTS
A Winter Scene on the Temple Block Frontispiece
Winter Grass Lowry Nelson 61
Tongues in Trees Maud Chegwidden 62
Responsibility of the State in Caring for Its Children Judge Hugo B. Anderson 64
A Report of the Care of the Feeble-Minded in Utah Claire Stewart Boyer 72
An Appreciation of Mrs. Alpha M. Smoot 78
Editorial—The Care of the Feeble-Minded Don B. Colton 81
Honor Banquet Tendered to President Clarissa Smith Williams Alpha Eldredge Smoot 84
Literature Lessons 86
Purple Velvet 87
Nature's Mirror 88
Pioneers Lois V. Hales 89
Flashes from the Eternal Semaphore 92
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 94
The Storm Amy McClure 96
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123

VOL. XVI FEBRUARY, 1929 No. 2
Responsibility of the State in Caring for Its Children (Address given at Relief Society Conference, Oct. 4, 1928) By Judge Hugo B. Anderson
I am very happy to respond to the invitation to talk to this group on the subject which has been announced, for in my judgment the Relief Society organization of this Church is the strongest force for progress in matters of child welfare in the State of Utah today; and if there is anything I can say or do to encourage you in the work which you are doing, I should consider it a breach of my plain duty as a member of the Church, as well as a citizen, if I failed to respond to that call.
THE RIGHTS OF CHILDHOOD
Every state inherently has the power technically called the police power, to make and enforce regulations for the health, morals, safety, and general welfare of its subjects. If the state has that power, obviously it has a corresponding duty to make and enforce regulations for health, safety, morals, and welfare.
There are, it seems to me, certain inalienable rights of childhood. If I were asked off-hand to name them, I might mention five: the right to be well-born, the right to a normal home life, the right to health, the right to an opportunity for education (including moral, intellectual, and spiritual education), and an opportunity for recreation. If these are the rights of childhood, then it is the power and also the responsibility of the state to guarantee as far as possible these rights, also to protect them and preserve them for childhood.
The responsibility of our state in this direction is discharged through three general channels. Through our department of education, through health measures under the control of a State Board of Health, and through a great variety of other activities commonly called welfare measures, for which we have no state board of administration. There is no sharp line of demarcation between educational, health and welfare work. Educational work today is comprehending health work in the schools, also social service work outside of school hours, vocational guidance, and other things closely related to welfare work. Health work itself is largely an educational problem, and welfare work in turn depends largely on the educational and health forces of the community.
THE FIELD OF WELFARE WORK
The three, then, are inter-related, but for convenience, may be taken as rough classifications for the administration of the state's responsibility to its childhood. There is another reason for the classification which places welfare work in a group by itself. The administration of the state's education and health work is fundamentally for all its children, whereas the work which is commonly termed welfare work, is concerned primarily with the special classes?the classes which need special care, and these are roughly classified as dependents, defectives, and delinquents.
In its educational and health programs, our state is well in advance among the states of the Union. We are spending proportionately, out of state revenues for educational purposes, twice the average of other states in the Union; whereas, in the field of welfare, in proportion to other states, we are spending one-third of the average that the other states are giving to that department.
THE FIELD OF EDUCATION
Utah has, as you know, compulsory school attendance for all children from six to eighteen years of age. It must be obvious that the higher the age limit is placed in compelling children to go to school, the broader must be the school program; for if the state, in the exercise of its power, undertakes to compel children to go to school, then it should be responsible for seeing that the children are afforded the kind of training that suits their needs. It is inevitable, therefore, with the advance of the school age to eighteen years, that it would take some time for our educational system to catch up with itself and supply children of the higher ages the kind of training they need.
In our state, if it is to carry out this duty, there must inevitably be a service in vocational guidance and in conduct clinics, for you can just as quickly make a child delinquent by trying to fit him into a school which does not fit his needs as you can by leaving him out of the school system altogether. As a rule, delinquency first makes itself manifest in the school. It is a responsibility of the school system, when that delinquency is first manifest, to take whatever steps the state can take to prevent the child from becoming a delinquent as he goes on to other agencies in our social system.
There will also be a development in the field of visiting teachers?in the social work which attempts to be a go-between from the home to the school. If the state, through its educational system, is to fulfil this responsibility to childhood, it must enlarge its facilities so that it gives these opportunities not only to the average child but also to the child below normal and the child above the normal.
THE FIELD OF HEALTH
We have, in the field of health, a splendid department in our state. We have a system of vital statistics, which I believe stands to the forefront among those of the states of the Union. There is one field of health to which I wish to direct your attention because you are more concerned with it than with any other. That is the work which has been going on under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. Under its provisions there have been established, I am told, in the State of Utah, 175 clinics where instruction has been given in prenatal care and where nurses have been provided for maternity cases. I am told by the State Board of Health that this work would have been impossible without the cooperation of the Relief Society organization through the state, and that in the short period of five years the death rate in maternity cases in the state of Utah has been reduced 35%?a showing of which we may well be proud.
The provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act will cease to function after June, 1929, unless something is done to continue that work throughout the country. We hear the argument that it is an unwarranted extension of federal authority to engage in this work, and that it is a violation of states rights. Personally, that argument has no weight with me when it is weighed with the lives of the mothers which have been saved in five years in the state of Utah under the provisions of that Act. There is being proposed at the present time in Congress a bill, introduced I believe, by the representative from Minnesota, which aims to provide a substitute for this work?to continue it under another arrangement. The Relief Society should make its influence felt with our representatives in Congress if it desires that this great work in the interest of maternity and infancy shall continue.
CARE OF THE DEPENDENT
In the field which we classify as the welfare field, I want to say, first of all, that the picture is not so bright in our state. I desire to show the great opportunity there is still before us in bringing that work up to the standard of the other branches of state care of childhood.
First, I suppose the Relief Society is more concerned with dependents than with any other class. I sometimes think that the Relief Society, as well as all other welfare agencies engaged in relief work, fails to comprehend the relation of the state and its subdivisions to private agencies in this field. The state carries on this work for dependents through the county subdivisions. Under our law, the care of dependents is first of all a charge on the family of the dependent?the father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, child, grandchild, brother, or sister. Each is chargeable with the care of a dependent in that group, and the county may compel, by suit or otherwise, any one of that group to care for a dependent in the group. The family is the unit of responsibility for the care of the dependent under the law.
If the family cannot care for the dependent, then the care, under the law, is a charge upon the county; and that obligation is so strong that if the county does not carry it out and another agency does, the other agency has the right to bring action against the county for money which it has been compelled to expend for the indigent or dependent poor within the county limits. As far as the legal situation is concerned, the private relief agency is outside of that work.
Now it is manifest that when the Relief Society or any other agency takes care of the indigent sick or the dependent poor in the county, the county is relieved of a legal responsibility and the burden of taking care of the poor is shifted from the taxpayer who supports the county fund to the contributor to the private organization. Thus the private organization is using its funds to carry out a county function, which funds it might be using in constructive and preventive work in the community. Constructive or preventive work is not a charge upon the county; under the law, the county is not required to do such work. If a county ever does preventive work, it is only because it thinks that by so doing it can save dollars and cents.
Under the poor laws of Queen Elizabeth, when the people of England were charged with support of all orphans and taxed to take care of them, there were epidemics throughout England, making great numbers of orphans. The people soon decided that if they had to take care of the orphans, they should do something to prevent the increase of orphans. It was from this circumstance that the health work of England began and has since gone on. But that was only for the purpose of saving dollars and cents, and you cannot expect the state or any of its subdivisions to do preventive and constructive work unless you can demonstrate that this work will save dollars and cents. It is the function of the private agency to devise ways and means, to experiment in the field, to perfect methods, and to demonstrate to the state that by doing preventive and constructive work money can be saved to the community.
WHO CARES FOR THE INDIGENT?
If the L. D. S. Church should say to any county, "Despite the fact that it is your legal responsibility to take care of the poor, we want to take care of our own," there could be no objection by the county and no objection by the taxpayer, because the burden is taken from the taxpayer and placed on those who are contributing to Relief Society and Church work. The only objection that could be made would be by members of the Church who were paying taxes and were also contributing to the care of their dependents. That is the situation which arose in our school system when we were duplicating Church high schools with the high schools of the community. Now we have seen fit to stop that duplication, to allow the civil unit to carry on its legal function, and merely to supplement with our Church seminaries. The same argument would induce us to place the care of dependents on the county, where it legally belongs, and supplement the county work with trained service and with constructive and preventive work in our Church.
We have been taught from childhood on, and I recall hearing it time and time again, that we have no poor and that we take care of our own. Neither one of these statements is true. I believe that we are allowing ourselves to be lulled to sleep on this matter. Utterances which have become almost a part of us and which were true when they were first made, have long since ceased to be true because of a change in our conditions.
In Salt Lake County some time ago, an investigation was made by private relief agencies to determine whether or not the county was carrying out its functions in the matter of poor relief and whether something could be done to aid it in that effort. The investigation showed that in Salt Lake County, $105,000 was being expended yearly for outdoor relief in addition to $50,000 under the so-called widow's pension fund, and that the number of families assisted in 1927, exclusive of widows, was 1,176. In Salt Lake City the preventive, constructive and investigation work in these cases was made for the L. D. S. Cases by the Relief Society, and for the non-L. D. S. Cases by the Family Service Society. The records showed that 330 cases in Salt Lake City, out of 1,176 were being taken care of by the L. D. S. Relief Society, 203 by the Family Service Society, leaving 643 cases to be taken care of by the Salt Lake County staff. The county staff was wholly inadequate to do any constructive or preventive work on such a number of cases.
But the most alarming thing shown by that investigation?a thing which I promised myself I would communicate to the people of my own Church at the first opportunity?was the fact that outside of Salt Lake City in Salt Lake County, at least 90% of the county cases claimed membership in the L. D. S. Church. Of approximately 1,500 cases in Salt Lake County, including widow's pension cases, 1,200 claimed membership in the L. D. S. Church?a number out of all proportion to the number of L. D. S. and non-L. D. S. People. That was not because our people are less frugal; it is not because our people are less intelligent or industrious; it is because outside of the work which is being done by our L. D. S. Relief Society, our system of poor relief has become antiquated. We are giving, giving, without combining with it any effort, through trained social workers, to prevent the necessity of giving. We are pauperizing and injuring the recipients, acting unjustly to our own people and to the taxpayers who are not members of our faith.
Four months ago a trained investigator was put on eighty cases in Salt Lake County. In these four months she was able, out of those eighty cases, to place twenty cases well on the way to self-respect and self-support, and to make them happy about it. That result shows what can be done by a little trained service in connection with giving. I believe that our private relief organization should turn its attention to this constructive and preventive work. It should aim to secure trained service, and to place back on the county the obligation which, under the law, is the obligation of the county?to care for the permanently dependent and indigent sick.
THE WIDOW'S PENSION
I want to say a word about the so-called widow's pension. Under our law, each county is required to set up a fund for the public support of widows who are dependent on their own efforts for the support of their children. In counties of less than one hundred thousand population, that fund is $10,000; in counties of more than one hundred thousand population, the fund is $50,000 annually. In Salt Lake County there are 310 widows on that list, and the widows receive approximately $5 per month for each child that they have, and no one, including the state, has ever been able to figure out how a widow can be expected to stay at home and take care of her children on $5 per month per child. It simply can't be done. If the purpose of the law is to preserve the home and keep the child in its own home (and the law has that purpose) then the law must utterly fail of its purpose.
At the same time I might say that in the great majority of counties in the state there is not a widow's pension fund, although the law requires that the county commissioners set it up. If we require a widow with a family to try to get along on $5 a month for each child, the family finally breaks under the strain. The children go into the Juvenile Court as a dependent and neglected family: they are taken from the mother and placed in institutions; and immediately the county, under law, is required to pay $15 a month for the support of each child in the institution. Is that the premium that we are going to place on home life? Is that the way we are to guarantee each child a normal home life. Time and time again it has been demonstrated that a home can care for a child better and at less expense than it can be cared for in an institution; and yet we grant the institution $15 for the support of the child and expect the mother to get along with $5. If the state is to discharge its responsibility for the care of the dependent child and give to every child its inalienable right to a normal home life, then I say that we must revise our conception of a, mother's RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATE 69 allowance. The first point of attack, however, is to see that the widows' allowance laws are properly administered; for it was found in this survey that practically half of the people who are getting the allowance are not entitled to it. We cannot expect the state to make larger appropriations to be distributed in this way. We should see to it that our counties are given the trained service they need in administering the law, and that we have a board of welfare in the state to see that the law is uniformly applied. TRAFFIC IN CHILDREN In the state of Utah there are probably born each year, about 150 illegitimate children. That is away below the average for the United States. It is about 1% of the births; whereas, in the United States as a whole, the illegitimate births are about 4% In these illegitimate cases, the death rate is about three times as high as in the case of legitimate birth. The larger proportion of these illegitimate children are born in what are known as maternity homes. The girl naturally tries to cover her shame, goes to a maternity home, usually away from her place of residence, and gives birth to her child. The maternity home has the problem, under our present system, of getting rid of the child; and a large part of the child-placing is done by unscrupulous persons who are running maternity homes, and who have but one desire?to get paid for the service they have given to the mother and to dispose of the child. A few weeks ago a maternity hospital in Salt Lake sold a child, which was taken into a home without any investigation by anyone who knew anything about child-placing, and without any regard to what kind of treatment that child would receive; the person taking it paid merely the expenses of the mother. After the child was placed, the case came to the attention of a welfare agency. The adoption proceedings were stopped and a criminal complaint has been charged against the person who disposed of the child. I mention this merely to show you the traffic in children that is going on in our communities. Under this maternity house system we place these illegitimate children with less regard to where they are going than we would use in placing a pet animal. We have on our statute book laws for the registration and licensing of maternity houses and of child-placing agencies. They have never been enforced because they are placed at the present time under the Board of Health, there being no board of welfare; and the Board of Health has never had an appropriation from the legislature for carrying out the provisions of these laws. Until we get a board of welfare, charged with the administration of these laws, we cannot expect that they will be properly administered. The Relief Society, through its Salt Lake office, is a licensed child-placing agency and I will say that if you are placing children 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE you should find out what the requirements of the child-placing law are and you should not do the job unless you have someone who can do it properly and according to law. NEEDS OF THE MENTAL HOSPITAL A word regarding defectives and their care. In the State Hospital at Provo, which is our only institution fur defectives, we have approximately 800 insane cases. We have in that institution two doctors; one of them gives his entire time to the administration of the institution and the other has some outside practice, I believe, and gives the rest of his time to the care of the inmates. The standard for hospital work for the insane in the United States is one hundred fifty patients to the doctor. You cannot expect to have proper care given to the insane unless the staff of medical men at the Provo institution is greatly increased. The doctors there realize that, but they say our first need is for more room, for there are not, even at the present time, beds for the people who are forced upon the institution. The patients are packed in like sardines in a can. They need more room and the state cannot discharge its responsibility to this class until they have more room. They also need at that institution a staff of nurses; then they need some social workers who can help take care of the cases that are sent out, and can keep them from going back into unfavorable environments and getting into the same conditions as they were in before, necessitating a re-commitment. The board of the state mental hospital should be increased by the appointment of certain civilian members. At the present time, it consists of the governor, the state treasurer, and the state auditor ?all officials of the state. Every time a change is inade in state administration, a change is made in the board at the mental hospital; and as soon as one board becomes acquainted with the needs of the institution and commences to make a plan for it. The board is changed and new members come on, who have to start all over again. A SCHOOL FOR THE FEEBLE-MINDED There is urgent need for the segregation of the feeble-minded from the insane. There are now at the institution 150 feebleminded, mostly of the lower class of feeble-minded?idiots and imbeciles. Feeble-minded people are not hospital patients; they are people needing education and custodial care. It is an injustice to the insane to place them with the feeble-minded, and an injustice to the feeble-minded to place them with the insane. After viewing the field of social work in the state, the State Conference of Social Workers, which has just completed a two-day session, has come to the conclusion that the greatest present need is a school for the training of the feeble-minded. As much as we RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATE 71 need other things, that group came to the conclusion that the most crying need is an institution for the feeble-minded. I am inclined to believe the conference was right in its decision. We have in this state at least 500 people who are in need of special training in an institution for the feeble-minded. Where are they? One hundred and fifty of them are at Provo. Groups of them, because they are not properly cared for, find their way into the Industrial School and then into the State Prison. A few are cared for at the Atkinson Home, and a few in the Twelfth School. We have no place to take care of them and we are doing an injustice to these people and an injustice to the taxpayers of our state by not seeing that they are taken care of and given the training which will help them to become self-sustaining and keep them out of trouble. PROBLEMS OF DELINQUENCY Perhaps I can say just a word about the field of delinquency. Delinquency represents the failure of all the other work in the community to make the child a social being; it represents failure of the home, the school, and the church. If all these agencies fail with him, he comes into the juvenile court. Obviously, if the school teacher, if the parents, if the church, if the community have failed to find out what is wrong with the boy, and have failed to give him the thing he needs to make him a social being, we cannot expect to get that job done and have the boy reformed and turned back into the channels of citizenship unless someone is handling him who is more expert than the people who have failed with him. That is sensible isn't it? And you cannot expect to get someone of that type to handle the child in our juvenile courts with the appropriation of $40,000 which the legislature makes biennially for handling the Juvenile court system of our state. Asa consequence, our juvenile court system is breaking down for lack of trained personnel and for lack of things which we all know are necessary to a juvenile court system. The courts have taken cognizance of the breaking down of our system and so have other people. A few years ago we had a law passed that in case a child committed a felony he should be handled, not as a person who needed guidance and help but as a criminal, and that lie could be bound over from the juvenile to the criminal court. The courts have said if that is so the jurisdiction of other courts is concurrent with that of the juvenile court, and therefore the child does not need to be taken into the juvenile court. So today it is possible for a fourteen-year-old child to be sentenced to the state prison in accordance with our law. We are to have an expert from the East soon to investigate our juvenile court system. We all know what is wrong but we will not listen unless somebody from outside comes and tells us what to do. A Report of the Care of the Feeble-Minded in Utah By the Utah Society for Mental Hygiene On page seventeen in the Bureau of Census Report on FeebleMinded and Epileptics in State institutions to the Department of Commerce occurs the following statement: "There are at the present time only four states, Arizona, Arkansas, Nevada and Utah, that have not provided a state institution for their feebleminded. Since the above mentioned report was printed at Washington in 1926, Arkansas has established state care for her feebleminded. Shall Utah, again, draw uncomplimentary notice in the next census as one of three states, or perhaps the solitary state, that lags behind in providing care and training for her most unfortunate residents? Utah does provide for her insane, her deaf and dumb, and for her blind. And the true state of our social consciousness is not indexed by our failure to provide a state institution for the feeble-minded; for our various civic, county, club, professional, patriotic, and our religious groups, through their several welfare organizations, do relieve the most pressing physical needs of the indigent feeble-minded persons scattered over our state. There are, however, many feeble-minded children who require custodial care and training which no system of outdoor relief can ever provide. Such children should not be permitted to wander about the streets. UTAH SHOULD PROVIDE Numerous citizens who, by their professional, social and economic interest in our feeble-minded class have acquired definite knowledge concerning them, believe that Utah, if she is to remain in the ranks of progressive statehood, must now provide some means by which this group can be trained to draw its own weight; at least in part. It has become economically urgent that all higher grade feeble-minded children be trained to perform some self-respecting work. It must not be inferred that all our feeble-minded children are indigent. Many are in the families of well-to-do citizens who are both willing and anxious to provide the intensive training needful in establishing habits that will make life less difficult for their mentally handicapped children. Unable to secure this much needed training in Utah for their children, some families have CARE OF THE FEEBLE-MINDED 73 moved to California. Others have sent their children to schools in Colorado, in Oklahoma, and in Iowa for training. Professional men are greatly concerned by the distress of parents who, recognizing that their defective children must have training which they, themselves, are unable to give, yet are economically unable to send them outside the state to be trained in some form of useful activity. There are many of these children of school age in Utah who are not provided for. Disastrous EXPERIENCES Many socially disastrous experiences of neglected high-grade feeble-minded individuals are related by social workers who aften contact them in some conflict with organized society. And because the particular individual concerned is neither insane, deaf and dumb, nor blind, he does not draw public sympathy. His mental blindness, which impels him to take the wrong turning, does not show. To the average citizen the feeble-minded transgressor with the mental age of eight years looks about like everyone else. Then his physical and his social experiences may be advanced. He looks as if he ought to have judgment. Yet he was born without the capacity to foresee the consequences of his own anti-social acts. Lack of success in the school-room makes the mentally defective child unhappy, restless, and frequently, delinquent. His home life may be economically depressed. When he reaches the limits of his capacity to learn in the class-room, and has neither a job nor the endurance to stay in school, the truant officers may do the only thing left for them to provide some care for the misfit? they may turn him over to the Juvenile Court. One such boy became a ward of the court under the following circumstances: he was a confirmed truant with the chronological age of eleven and the mental age of eight. His mother was a moron drug addict. No matter how much money his industrious father earned the children never had enough satisfying food. Various persons attempted to do something with the family, but they would not break it up in time to salvage the children. All the children stole whenever hunger pressed them too savagely. The older girls, with their mother's approval, became prostitutes. The boy already mentioned and his older brother became wards of the Juvenile Court, both progressing through the Detention Home, the Industrial wochool, the City and County jails to the Penitentiary. The younger boy is a killer. Whenever he is hungry he holds up the first person that crosses his path. So far, nothing but his own poor aim has saved him from choosing whether he would rather be shot himself than hanged. He has served two terms in our prison and is now at large. Although this boy has been a ward of the state of Utah ever since he was eleven years old, he is still 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE untrained to earn his living. When a small boy he liked shop work, and might, at one time, have been trained into social and economic usefulness. FEEBLE-MINDED GIRLS The untrained feeble-minded girl, if pretty, soon becomes the victim of depraved persons of both sexes. She may find work in a factory; but since she has had no preliminary training in certain mechanical processes, she is not successful. It takes her too long to learn simple movements. When she is discharged she may find employment in the less-skilled departments of steam laundries. The work is apt to be hard for her even there. If she has a pretty dress, she will attend public dance halls in company with other girls. She is certain to be "spotted." It is not long before she becomes a sex-delinquent?a patient at the clinics and at the county hospitals. Sometimes, before she ever reaches the hospital, she has been employed as a mother's helper where there are small children and has left a trail of disease behind her. Sometimes she disappears altogether. Frequently the least prepossessing of the feeble-minded girls give birth to illegitimate babies, either in private homes or in public hospitals. Though sometimes they do keep. Their babies, they more frequently, for a consideration, are persuaded to part. With them to incautious or unscrupulous people for adoption. Even bootleggers use babies for some particular camouflaging purposes. Though there has been as yet no complete survey of all the feeble-minded persons in our state, when Dr. George L. Wallace, Director of the Committee on Mental Hygiene in the United States, made an investigation in Utah, he reported that the state's percentage of feeble-minded was probably from one to one and onehalf per cent of the total population. (The average percentage of such population throughout the United States is from one to two per cent.) According to Doctor Wallace's estimate, there would be about five hundred children in Utah in pressing need of custodial care.. The high-grade feeble-minded child has an intelligence quotient around seventy. To keep him in the school-room when he is in need of more intensive training in the formation of right social habits than our public schools are now prepared to give, makes him a gource of wasted taxation. Feeble-minded children must be trained into self-support. No public school in Utah is prepared to give the necessary twenty-four-hours-a-day training in right social habits, or in self-supporting work to feeble-minded children. And the recent acceptance of this fact, that while intelligence does limit the feeble-minded child's field, it does not say what crops shall be grown in that field, is determining what CARE OF THE FEEBLE-MINDED 75 care progressive states are providing for their least fortunate children. Utah does expend moneys generously for all her children. But the opportunities open to the definitely feeble-minded child in our fine public schoolrooims are unsuited to his capacities. He needs training in habits and in useful work. It behooves Utah to take intelligent self-interest in this problem of providing an institution for her feeble-minded. It is not so much a question of state pride; the social and the economic cost to our state of neglecting to train this class, is mounting rapidly. Gifts By Claire Stewart Boyer Once when Fate stripped me of my velvet hopes And made me walk barefoot through desert sands, Wounding my feet on prickly pears of pride, Carrying stinging fears in aching hands, I heard the call to prayer, and in that hour, Kneeling, I found a pitying, cloud-white flower. Once when the siren city drank me in And dragged me through the deepest of despair, I wandered like a mad-man through its streets, Then sank upon the church steps cold and bare To summon courage for disaster's end, The portals opened, and there stood?a friend. Once Fortune masqueraded for my sake And let me to its tinselled festival; It dazzled me with homage all unasked, It gave me wealth and fame and love and all, "Can God be here?" I cried, "In such a place?" I raised my eyes and lo, God showed His face. To those who ask it shall be given still; To those with faith like to a mustard seed, Their mountains shall be moved forever hence; The sinner, penitent, from sin be freed; God gives His three eternal gifts of grace To those who seek?a flower, a friend, His face. An Appreciation of Mrs. Alpha M. Smoot Wife of Senator Reed Smoot By Don B. Colton Those who attended the wonderfully impressive funeral services of Sister Smoot will long remember the comforting remarks made upon the occasion. As IJ listened, there came before me additional thoughts of what might be said concerning her missionary work in Washington, where she lived so many years. Many will remember the years 1903 and 1904 when the question as to whether or, not Utah could make its own choice of a United States Senator was being fought out. Those were momentous days for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and for all Utahns. Feeling all over the nation ran high against the Church. When Senator and Mrs. Smoot came to Washington, there were few if any friends to greet them. Most people looked upon them with scorn and almost contempt. We talk much of the cold reception accorded our missionaries. What of this family? What of this good woman who had left a good home among friends to come to live in a hostile city? Think you not that it required courage? She faced the contumely and insults bravely. She knew her cause was just and was therefore, "thrice armed." No one ever heard her make apologies for her religion. No one ever saw her afraid to speak boldly in its defense. She fought courageously by the side of her husband for what she helieved to be right, undaunted and unafraid. After Senator Smoot was finally seated, then came the struggle for respect and recognition. It came slowly but surely. We are glad to know she lived to see some of the honor accorded her illustrious husband. She must have found some satisfaction in comparing the later years of her life with her early sojourn in Washington. She must have rejoiced in the thought of the change from the Senator Smoot, unknown and almost rejected, to the Senator Smoot known all over the nation and indeed the world, and to feel that she played a part in bringing about the change. All the years of her life in Washington were spent in service for the people of her Church and her State. For years the little band of Church workers met in the home of Brother and Sister Smoot. They had no other meeting place. Those who MRS. ALPHA M. SMOOT 77 attended will always remember the sweet spirit of those meetings and the warmth and depth of the welcome extended by the family. Her labors were as bread cast upon the water to return after many days. The years have brought great changes. One cannot help but think of those beautiful words: "God's plan, like lilies pure and white, unfold; We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart; Time will reveal the calyxes of gold. And if, by faith and patient toil, we reach the land Where tired feet with sandals loose may rest, Where we shall know and understand, I think that we shall say, 'God knew best'." Surely Sister Smoot. Worked, believing "God knew the best." Many of those who have lived in Washington will and do testify of the influence of this missionary service upon their lives, for surely she was a missionary. Day by day through the years that followed her coming, she worked for the vindication of her people. It has come or is rapidly coming. How times have changed! Work and character that rest upon the Rock of Ages will ultimately triumph. The branch of the Church has grown in Washington until a private home will not accommodate the members. One scarcely ever hears now a disparaging thing said of the Latter-day Saints. They are received everywhere. Let us not forget the services of those who have, under God, helped to bring the change. It is missionary service of the highest order. This woman, with qualities of mind and heart of the missionary type, gave new grace and brought new charm to social and domestic life. People saw and were convinced they were wrong. They had misjudged her people. A woman possessing such qualities of mind and heart could not fail to impress others. Senator Smoot's success has been largely built upon the foundation of capacity, character and courage. She helped him through the long, years of struggle and now has gone to a well earned rest. Her work and her helpfulness were appreciated by her husband. Through the long weeks and months of her last illness he tenderly watched over her and provided for her every need. Those who have lived in Washington during that time know part of the story of love and devotion on the part of Senator Smoot. It has been a lesson of devotion and fidelity we shall not forget. Faith, too, played its part. Many a prayer was offered and answered as time and again her life was spared. It isa marvelous story for some one yet to tell. Some one has expressed the thought that death is the means by which one acquires the fulfillment of which this life is but a 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prophecy. Life and death form but parts of one grand drama. How often, as we stand by the bier of a loved one, do we ask the question, Is death the end of our individual and conscious being? Are all these pleasing thoughts, these ardent affections, our glowing hopes and lofty aspirations, our capacity for love, happiness, and knowledge, which we feel expanding?are all these to cease at death and be buried in the grave? If this be true, Chauncey Giles has well said, "Then man is the greatest enigma in the universe. Compared with the possibilities of his nature, he is a fading flower, the withering grass, the morning cloud, the tale that is told." [But this is not true. After death man will live again. To the good and wise, death opens the shining portals of an endless life, where service and love find their fullest sway. These thoughts came to me as I stood by the bier of Sister Smoot. Tennyson, one of England's sweetest poets, said: Nor blame I death because he bare The use of virtue out of earth, I know transplated human worth Will bloom to profit otherwhere. Utahns in Washington feel a void in their sociai and religious life. Two great missionaries have labored long and faithfully together. One is resting. Appreciation On behalf of President Robison and the members of the General Board we wish to express appreciation for the many kindly greetings that have reached the office during the holiday season. We appreciate these messages of good will and peace. We are taking this opportunity of expressing our gratitude through the Magazine, as the number of greetings reaching our office makes it impossible for us to respond in any other form. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON: - - -: - President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD: : Second Counselor MRS, JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs, Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - -: Alice Louise Reynolds Manager - - - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Vou, XVI FEBRUARY, 1929 No. 2 EDITORIAL The Care of the Feeble-Minded The 'Relief Society is pleased to note that in Governor Dern's inaugural address made at the Capitol Building January 7, 1929, he did not fail to mention the feeble-minded. Under a paragraph stating that the morals of the people are influenced, not alone by the home atmosphere but also by the community atmosphere, Governor Dern says that a phase of governmental activity is the care of the unfortunate and the under-privileged, including in this paragraph the insane and feeble-minded. This is in line with the intensive work done by the Relief Society in its social service lessons, its fall conventions and its present work of circtilating petitions. For many months past the social service lessons have sought to meet the child's needs and in these lessons the child of lesser endowments has come in for its share of consideration along with the child that is normally situated and can receive normal care. The General Board members went out to conventions this fall with a carefully prepared address covering the situation of the mentally handicapped. The topic emphasized the care of the feeble-minded, stating that they deserve every consideration that can be given them for development in order that they may have the opportunity to be part of the life into which they have been 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE born. The address stressed the fact that every state should furnish adequate facilities in buildings, equipment, as also persons suitably trained to instruct these people who will become a fpart of the most complex civilization that the world has seen. It pointed out that if the feeble-minded are not cared for according to the best knowledge available, some of them, like all children who lack opportunity whether classed as normal or otherwise, will become vicious and further aggravate crime and delinquency, which presents one of the most terrifying of present day problems. The last step on the part of the Relief Society has been to authorize the circulation of petitions, to the end that all persons who are interested in the state's providing appropriate surroundings and helpful training for the feeble-minded shall have an opportunity to indicate their interest by their signatures. We trust that the legislature will make use of the opportunity that lies before it by doing a much needed piece of welfare work for the State of Utah. The citizens of this state are keenly interested in welfare work. They are thoroughly aroused to the necessity of a legislative act which shall provide for the care of the feeble-minded, and nothing short of such an enactment will satisfy them. With welfare workers it is the paramount issue. To use the words of a crusader, it is the burning cause?a cause in which all welfare workers are crusaders. Committed by the nature of its work to the welfare of the unfortunate, the Relief Society joins hand and heart with all other social organizations in their appeal for legislative enactment that shall make adequate and proper provision for the feeble-minded. Honor Banquet Tendered to President Clarissa Smith Williams The president's suite at the Hotel Utah at noon Wednesday, December 19, 1928, was witness of another festal occasion. Those of us who took part naturally wondered if a more pleasant banquet had ever been held in those historic rooms. The occasion was an honor banquet to President Clarissa Smith Williams tendered by the members of the General Board. As it was nigh to the Christmas season the table decorations reflected the coming event. A centerpiece in green and red arrested and held the attention of guests throughout the banquet. From it extended streamers of red satin ribbon to the place card and cover of each of the guests. At each plate was a program bearing the inscription "banquet in honor of President Clarissa Smith Williams" and following that was a portrait of her with the following inscription: 'Banquet in honor of President Clarissa Smith Williams given by the General Board of EDITORIAL 81 Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, December 19, 1928, Hotel Utah." Following this was the menu, then the program, then the names of the members of the General Board. Every detail of the banquet was carried forth in the same well directed manner as characterized the decorations. The general committee consisted of President Louise Y. Robison, her counselors, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and Mrs, Julia A. Child, and the General Secretary, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. President Robison and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon were perhaps most responsible for the outlining of the program. Their idea was to have every member of the General Board take part and this idea was carried out to the very letter. The guests were President Williams, her daughters and daughters-in-law and the members of the General Board. The decoration and entertainment committee consisted of Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Mrs. Cora L. Bennion and Mrs. Elise B. Alder. The printed programs were in the hands of a committee consisting of Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, Miss Alice L. Reynolds and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. The program was introduced by greetings from President Louise Y. Robison, who introduced as the toastmistress of the occasion Mrs, Jennie B. Knight. Mrs. Knight said that President Williams' work made her think of the beautiful tapestry made in France at the Gobelin factory. It took a year to make a square yard and a number of years to complete a large piece, but when completed the design was perfect and the tapestry outlives the centuries. She said this work of making tapestry suggested the work of President Williams. She has now completed her design and is leaving her beautiful work for the future to gaze upon. She said that along with the golden threads that had been woven into the pattern were blue threads put there by her daughters, her bluebirds of happiness. A pleasing feature of the program was the music under the direction of Mrs. Ida P. Beal. The first offering was a cello solo by Mrs. Margaret Lyman Schreiner, accompanied by her husband Mr. Alexander Schreiner. This was followed by a solo by Mrs. Ida P. Beal. Both musical numbers were received enthusiastically and were responded to by encores. An original reading by Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon in lighter vein caused a good deal of merriment among the members of the Board. It was comprehensive enough to take in the entire Board. The toast to President Clarissa Smith Williams by Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund had to do with Mrs. Williams' work with national and patriotic organizations. This was followed by responses from Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, Miss Alice L. Reynolds and Mrs. Elise B. Alder. This should have been followed by a tribute "To Mother" by a daughter of President Williams. This number failed because the daughter expecting to make the response had been called from the city because of illness. Then came a number 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of responses under the head of periods of President Williams' Relief Society career. The Maiden 1873 to 1889 was spoken of by Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. The Ward Worker, Teacher, Secretary, and President by Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford; Stake President by Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter; General Treasurer by Mrs. Emma A. Empey; Counselor to General President by Miss Sarah M. McLelland; and General President by Mrs. Julia A. Child. These responses all paid tribute to President Williams in the various offices she had held. Another touch of humor was added by Mrs. Inez K. Allen who responded to the toast "Tribulations of President Williams with Stake Presidents." After this came the response of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman under the heading "One Word More." This proved to be a presentation to President Williams of a white gold wristwatch which bears her name and the date of presentation, and also the words presented by the General Board. In her address Mrs. Lyman detailed those qualities of mind and heart that make a leader of the first order, poise, vision, sane outlook, confidence in one's associates, and the power to push forward in well-directed lines. President Williams accepted the tributes modestly, saying as she listened to what the various Board members had to say that she thought they were talking about some woman who lived at the north pole. She expressed her appreciation in the pleasing manner which has been characteristic of her expressions of appreciation throughout her ministration. Then came the feature sponsored by the entertainment committee. The red streamers had locked innocent enough all through the banquet. No one suspected that they were more than very tasty Christmas decorations, but under the foliage of the beautiful centerpiece were hidden mysteries. President Robison was asked to draw her ribbon. She did so and discovered that at the end of it was attached a shovel, a rake and a hoe. This caused a lot of fun as it suggested the President's enthusiasm in the beautification and cleanup campaign. President Williams drew a little health nurse which suggested the Clarissa Smith Williams Health Nurse Fund. The tribute to Mrs. Lyman was featured in a little pioneer representing the fact that Mrs. Lyman had pioneered the social science work of the organization. A little house was drawn by Mrs. Julia A. Child. It suggested the fact that on one of her trips she was stranded where there were no habitations. The gift suggested that if she carried the little house along with her she might not lack for shelter. Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund's gift was an Indian doll suggesting her interest in adult education, and Mrs. Jennie B. Knight was presented with a blooming cyclamen. Each member of the Board was presented with a little gift that was a reminder of something in her daily life. The members of the Board left the banquet with a feeling of satisfaction and gratification not only for the able administration of President Williams, but also that they had been given an opportunity of expressing their esteem and interest in her and in her work.
Alpha Eldredge Smoot
In this issue of the Magazine we are publishing a tribute by Congressman Don B. Colton to Mrs. Alpha Eldredge Smoot, wife of Senator Reed Smoot. In her position as wife of the Senator, Mrs. Smoot had it within her power to make a unique contribution to the women of the Church, and the opportunity that was hers she did not pass by. Many persons have wondered how Senator and Mrs. Smoot, with their responsibilities and multiplicity of duties, could manage to take into their home the great number of people they did. We recall that an unusually large number of the members of the General Board of the Relief Society have visited Washington to attend sessions of the National Council and of the International Council of Women. On these occasions as on other visits of a private nature, our representatives have either been cared for in the home or otherwise entertained in the most cordial manner. Your editor has several times had the opportunity to visit the city of Washington; on all such occasions we have had the most cordial treatment from Senator and Mrs. Smoot. Particularly were we appreciative in 1916 when trying to push forward the Federal Suffrage amendment. We could not help noting the fact that in some instances the Senators and their wives from some other states were not so cordial, and several times women from other states remarked when they observed the attention that we were accorded that it was not so in their case. We appreciated the courtesy extended; it made our visit delightful at the time and is now a precious memory.
So much for Mrs. Smoot as hostess. We now turn to the phase of her life emphasized in Congressman Colton's tribute, that of being put in a position when she first went to Washington where the prejudice and the ill-will which many people carry for a religion that is unpopular, was visited upon her head. Frequently, when she went on to the street, insinuating and disagreeable remarks were made that must have been very trying to her. It was undoubtedly an entirely new experience to her, born as she was in a family highly respected and married into a family greatly beloved in the community where she made her home. Mrs. Smoot bore these insults, for they can hardly be termed by any other name, bravely, and when the hour came that her husband's strength was demonstrated and he became recognized as one of the most capable members of the United States senate, she was then not able to take advantage of the full measure of his success in a social way, because of her impaired health.
In the particulars indicated, her life has been just a little different from that of other women in the Church; so that there is about her work a feature that is unique. She certainly pioneered in such a way that any other Senator's wife who follows her will not have to meet the unpleasant situations she met. Pioneering in the spiritual realm is just as important for progress as pioneering in the material realm. With deepest feelings of gratitude we pay this tribute to her and we know that women all over the Church will be moved by this same feeling of gratitude for what she has done on their behalf.
Literature Lessons
For a rather lengthy period the Relief Society has been studying poetry, so that class leaders are familiar with the way to present a lesson in poetry. Now that we have turned to another form of literature, certain questions asking how we intend that the lessons shall be presented have come into the office. We are sure that many of our class leaders have had experience in schools where dramas are presented; in such instances they will be more or less familiar with the method. For those who have never belonged to groups of any sort where dramas were reviewed, we make a few suggestions, which we trust will prove helpful.
In the first place there is no thought of having these plays dramatized. To attempt it would, in most instances, mean failure. In the next place we wish to make clear that it is not necessary to have a dramatic reader. Anybody who can read intelligently can do the work. Drama is very much easier for many people to read than poetry, consequently it ought not to be difficult.
We have told you what we do not wish you to do; we shall now try to tell you what we should like you to strive to do. Our idea is to have someone tell the story of the drama in an interesting way. Then, after the story is told, we wish to have the problem discussed. We should like our readers to recognize that our modern playwrights, even those who are as great as Galsworthy, Shaw, and Barrie, are interested in the same social problems as Relief Society workers and social workers the world over are interested in. Also that when writing plays they make use of the same material as social workers constantly come in contact with while at work, in every day life. In other words, we would like our Relief Society members to recognize that there is a correlation between literature and life; that the person who writes is attempting to present the grave social problems of our civilization in the hope that social workers in the field may be able to do something towards solving them.
Purple Velvet By Estella P. Rich
Miss Ames, spinster, took a last look at her monthly pay check before she clasped shut her flat leather hand bag of a style long since obsolete; drew on her mended kid gloves; picked up a "National" mail order catalogue; nodded a good-night to the principal; and left the building where for twelve years she had been Allie Ames, primary teacher.
Purple shadows lay across the mountains, and a faint, haunting perfume drifted through the stillness. "Spring!" she said softly, "spring, and my dream coming true."
Her heart was singing as she went through the soft April twilight, though no one would have suspected it from the tight, thin-lipped expression of her mouth that the years had made as habitual as the dingy brown dresses she wore.
Twelve years is a long time for a dream to remain unchanged. If it does not come into its fulfillment, it fades into a half-forgotten memory, or is itself outgrown by its creator. None of these things had happened to Allie Ames' dream. It still lived just as she had put it away when her father's mantle of provider had dropped on her frail shoulders. She had been all ready then to buy the purple velvet dress. In it, like a butterfly newly awakened from its chrysalis, she would close the door to her drab girlhood. The subtle softness of the velvet, its shimmering richness, would add the thing that her personality lacked. The slenderness and whiteness of her hands would be accentuated against its background. In it she could laugh out gaily without feeling self-conscious. In it she could hold her head up proudly. She had it all planned?the very cut of it. Her first pay check would be due on October 16th, and on October 10th her father died.
She took up the burden that he had laid down, and the purple velvet dress was relegated to a part of her mind that has nothing to do with the paying off of a four thousand dollar mortgage and caring for an invalid mother. Eight years later death simplified her financial problems but left her bitterly lonely. Her mother, too, was gone. Twice since then she had seen her way open to the fulfillment of her dreams. Twice the gorgeous dress came floating out into her warm, welcoming consciousness; and twice fate had reached out a restraining hand, once in the form of a broken leg for herself and once in a fire that destroyed the roof of her kitchen. The velvet had gone back to its waiting place.
But now the home was free from debt, the principal had signed her up for another year, and out of this very month's pay check her dream-child was to come.
"I'm going into Mrs. Darney's right now," she told herself, "and find out just what she can make it up for."
As she turned in at the dressmaker's gate, her eye fell on a purple pansy rising out of brown frost-bitten leaves. She smiled whimsically and knocked at the door.
"Land sakes, Miss Ames, I wuz just a wishin' someone would come in. I'm a makin' cookies for the stage driver's lunch, so I can't leave. Here, have some.
"You know," Mrs. Darney continued, "this town is goin' to the dogs?plumb to the dogs. What do you think has happened now?" She stooped to slide a pan of cookies in the oven and Miss Ames informed her she hadn't the faintest idea. Reserving her own thought, however, that if it were any scandal, neither she nor the rest of the village would be long in hearing of it.
"Darn stinkers," went on the much-incensed woman?Mrs. Darney slurred her "r's" as she did her neighbors?"the hull bunch is a goin' straight to the devil. That Jenkens crowd of boys went to Evanston last night to some big carnival dance, and here it's Friday night and not one of 'em back yet.
"Bert Henley, the mail driver, says as how he saw 'em hangin' round the pool hall when he came through Evanston today.
"Such goin's on! And that Evertt Brooks as bad as any of 'em. If Ann Athers hadn't already quit him, this sure ought to finish him."
Miss Ames straightened up in her chair. "Evertt isn't with them?you don't mean that?"
"Don't I? That's just what I mean."
"Poor kid."
"Poor kid, nothin'. He ought to be ashamed of himself?him that's had more chance than any of 'em.
"Why, I tell you, Miss Ames, there's not a decent fellow in this town, and the gals is just about as bad."
Miss Ames rose hurriedly. She couldn't somehow, bring herself to mention her dress in this hostile influence. Plenty of time to make arrangements for it after the material came.
"Ann Athers?you can't say anything about her," Miss Ames flung out a bit defiantly as she opened the door.
"Well, all I can say is I hope she's different."
"Poor Mrs. Darney," thought Miss Ames a little later as she washed up her dishes from her solitary supper. "She's never so happy as when she's imagining the worst about people."
Though she discredited much of the dressmaker's gossip, it still left her vaguely uneasy. "I wish I hadn't gone into Mrs. Darney's tonight, but how silly to let her idle talk depress me. Nothing is going to spoil this golden day."
She watered her red geranium in the south window, hectographed the second reading lesson for Monday, corrected the third grade spelling papers, and put a yeast cake to soak; then, getting out the mail order catalogue, she spent a blissful hour reading descriptions of velvets. By eleven o'clock she had decided upon the material for which she would send: "No. 2560J?Width 48 inches. After months of searching the market, we have at last secured what we believe is the finest bargain in silk panne velvet ever offered. The illustration cannot show and words cannot describe the beauty of this rich material. It is the ideal fabric for discriminating buyers. Comes in black, navy blue, and a deep purple. Yd. $7.00."
She was so deeply absorbed that the chugging of a car through the muddy street did not rouse her from her dream. She wrote her order, made out a twenty-eight dollar check, addressed and sealed the envelope, and stood it upon the old-fashioned writing desk.
The clock was striking twelve when she went up the narrow stairs to her bed room. She stood for a moment by the window, drinking in the soft shimmering beauty of the night. "I can see myself coming up the path in that dress with moonlight streaming down?I'm walking very straight?and the narcissuses turn on their stalks to watch me as I go?oh, I know what I'm going to do: I'm going out in that moonlight now and walk up and down the path as I'll walk when I have my dress."
She was at the gate before she saw the shadow, indistinct and crouching. She ventured a little nearer. No it was not the poplar shadow, but a man, hat over eyes, his back against her white picket fence.
"What are you doing here?" she asked through lips that sought to be steady.
Only a thick mumble. She went a little closer then drew back in dismay. Out of the shadow a face gathered distinctness?a boy's face. It was Evertt Brooks.
"Oh, shut up," came the thick retort, "I don't want any old maid preaching to me."
Tipsily he moved off down the road toward his own home.
Miss Ames' heart contracted with quick pain. Evertt who used to bring her stiff little bouquets of marigolds and ribbon grass; whose chubby little hands always sought teacher's in the recess games; Evertt, whose laughing eyes had awakened dreams?dreams of mothering such sons; Evertt, who had gone away to the Evansville High School largely through her influence with his mother; who had stood at the head of his class for three years and then been called home in his last year to relieve a rheumatism-crippled father, who didn't believe in his son's "galavantin' off fur education nohow."
She remembered when he came home for vacation, how hungrily she had listened to him tell of his high school days, of the gay innocent pranks there, of the new vision of life he was gaining; and she thanked God quietly that her weak influence had helped make it possible. Once while talking enthusiastically of his teachers, he had said: "But there's one who stands out above all the teachers I've ever had?"
Miss Ames' heart had given a great leap. What if he should say her name. With face burning she almost prayed he would, then as quickly hoped he wouldn't. He didn't.
"My athletic coach, Miles Bonner?he's the one that's got under my skin. Gee, Miss Ames, it's great to affect fellows like he does. Of course he has no idea how I feel about it; but I almost believe if he told me he thought I could jump over the moon, I'd try it."
And now in less than a year the deadly environment of the little town was getting him, smothering out his ideals, and he was helpless to save himself. When he first came home, she had actually hoped that he might run in evenings and read with her; but he didn't and now she smiled a trifle bitterly. "Who would spend his evenings reading with a dull old maid when youth, even though not of his standard, is calling?"
The young people weren't bad, just aimless and idle?and Evertt was meant for better things. "Oh, why isn't there someone big enough to save him?someone he would let help him!" she almost sobbed.
Suddenly she thought of his coach?yes, perhaps he could help. But how could she get into communication with him. Letter? No, she could never express herself in writing, especially to a stranger. Evansville was thirty miles distant over roads so muddy that the stage driver had abandoned his car for the slower but surer buggy locomotives. Even if she could prevail upon him to take a passenger she couldn't afford to go. It would cost twenty dollars for fare alone. No, it was out of the question. After making the last payment on the house, she had only enough laid aside to keep her till next pay day. It did not occur to her that she might borrow. She would have rejected the idea if it had occurred. She had carried the yoke of debt too long as it was.
But she did think of the letter on the old desk. At that thought her face flamed with anger. It was ridiculous to even think of it. Had she not waited twelve years already for that velvet dress? She visioned the few dresses she had had in those years?always dark, drab, colors chosen for service. "No, no, no," she told herself fiercely. "I'm not my brother's keeper."
She recounted her many sacrifices, her meagre joys. What if Evertt had been her favorite pupil? What if she dreamed great things for him? Could Fate?could anybody expect her to do such a perfectly ridiculous thing? A strange man?of course she couldn't make him understand! And if she could it was utterly foolish to think that a word from him at a distance would outweigh the daily and hourly environment of Evertt's home and town.
She went slowly back to the house, climbed for the second time, the narrow stairs to her bedroom and presently found herself mechanically putting her tooth-brush, two clean handkerchiefs, and a night dress into a worn suitcase. She carried the suitcase down to the kitchen, packed a few sandwiches in a shoe box, looked at her watch?it was four fifteen. She got out a black cotton veil and wrapped it about her hat to protect it from the splashing mud.
At five o'clock she called up Bert Henley, the stage driver, and asked him to call for her at six. She hunted up an old linen duster that had been her mother's; to cover her five-year-old coat. She was forcing herself to drink a glass of milk when the stage driver whistled.
At nightfall when a jaded and steaming team drew up before the Evans Hotel, Miss Ames got stiffly to the ground, paid Henley ten dollars, asked him to call for her in the morning, and went to sign her name to the register. She was conscious of flickering smiles as she made her way through a group of traveling men to the desk where she asked the clerk for a moderately priced room. From the dining room adjoining the lobby she caught a glimpse of waving pennants and the sound of laughing voices.
"Can you direct me to Miles Bonner's residence?" she asked the clerk when she had signed her name.
"Sure mam, but if it's Miles Bonner himself you want to see, he's in the dining room there now. The faculty of the high school is banqueting the basket ball boys before they leave tonight for their tour of eastern Wyoming."
A great fear swept over Miss Ames. Her task seemed so silly and trivial now. Coach Bonner no doubt could not even spare time to speak to her, and if he did he likely would think she was crazy. If she only could have met him in his own home she was sure it would have been easier. But she must not give up?she had risked too much.
Trembling she wrote on a sheet of paper: "Coach Bonner: Dear sir: Can you spare me ten minutes of your time? I have come thirty miles to see you and ask this favor only because I believe my reason justifies it."
She signed it and asked the clerk to deliver it, and then sat down in the dimmest corner of the lobby to wait.
"He'll see you at eleven," the clerk presently informed her.
Miss Ames ached in every muscle and nerve. If she closed her eyes, mud-dripping wheels turned round and round and the crack of the whip sounded and resounded till she could have screamed.
At eleven o'clock the coach came toward her. He was a big, broad-shouldered man. His keen gray eyes measured her from head to foot and she became painfully aware of a dab of mud on her skirt.
"You are Miss Ames?"
"Yes, sir," she blushed furiously, and plunged into her business. He kept an eye on his watch as she talked and she could feel he was impatient to be off. As a result her embarrassment increased?she floundered for words.
"Our train is due in twenty minutes," he broke in at last, "so you'll have to excuse me, Miss Ames. And I really think you've over-estimated the seriousness of the boy's condition as well as my influence on him, but I'll write him anyway."
"Oh, thank you, sir; and please don't ever let him know that I asked you to."
"I won't," and he was gone.
"Fool, fool," she told herself fiercely. "That's what he thinks you are and that's what you are, too." She felt as though she had been slapped mentally and physically. A fool old maid preaching around,?yes, Evertt had said it. She stumbled up to her bedroom and without even trying to crowd down one of the now dry sandwiches, she flung herself across the bed.
Back in her school room five years later Miss Ames directed the moving of books to the adjoining new building. It was the last day of school in the old building. On Monday workmen would begin tearing it down. After the children had gone, Miss Ames spent a happy hour in the new school room, drawing a calendar gay with blue birds and daffodils. As she placed the figures in their neat little squares, she stopped suddenly?April 15?it was five years today she had made her memorable journey to Evansville.
She had never known the outcome of that journey, for within the week her aunt in Denver had died, leaving Miss Ames a few thousand dollars with the stipulation that she remain with a seventeen-year-old daughter until the girl was safely married. Four years later when Miss Ames returned to resume her teaching in her home town, the Brooks family had moved to Moscow, Idaho. Well, she had done her best, foolish as it now seemed.
It was twilight when she went back to the old school room for some pictures she had left on the walls. As she reached up to get them, her eye fell on a spit ball clinging to one of the frames. She smiled to herself. She could almost hear its thud as it hit, and see a dozen pairs of mischievous eyes that had followed it to its destination. A smudged outline of a little overshoe on the smoky ceiling bore silent testimony to the joy of some small lad. It struck her suddenly that she was in the house of death. Little empty seats stared up at her; empty hat pegs pointed shadowy figures; ghostly little hands clung to hers; and weird childish voices called.
"I'm getting old to sit and dream like this. It's really dark. I should have been home hours ago."
But still she lingered. What dreams had she awakened in this room?dreams that had faded into nothingness! She leaned out of the open window. Through the velvety dusk she could make out the narcissuses cutting the ground with stiff little daggers of green. She and the children had planted them by the steps years ago. A little pine tree rose stiff and straight from its bed of new-turned earth. Overhead the star-studded sky stretched away to infinite spaces?the sky that covered her boys and girls.
Two figures, a boy's and a girl's turned in at the old school gate. Miss Ames drew back into the shadow. A board creaked loudly but the couple were wholly oblivious to any sound save their own voices. The boy was saying something about signing a contract for principalship in a high school. A workman's bench stood directly in front of the window. Here the couple sat down and a silence fell between them. A drowsy breeze caught up a length of chiffon from the girl's shoulders. Its trailing whiteness brushed softly against the boy's face. Miss Ames felt rather than heard him draw in a long quivering breath.
"Ann?" he stopped, choked. His hand closed over hers and came to rest. "Oh, it's too perfect to spoil with my stumbling words. Can't you see the night is saying it for me?tell me you understand."
"Yes, Evertt, I understand."
Another long silence. When the boy spoke again his voice was so low that Miss Ames could scarcely catch it.
"There's a man I could go down on my knees to, Ann. A man who made it possible for this to be."
"Made it possible?"
"Yes, when I lost my way he met me at the crossroads with a lantern?a letter I mean. Some day I'll tell you all about it. I wish Miles Bonner knew."
For several minutes after they had gone, Miss Ames stood perfectly still. Her hands in the moonlight lay slim and white against the brown dress. Suddenly she laughed out gaily, without a trace of self-consciousness. Her head came up proudly.
"Why?why?I feel as if I were dressed in purple velvet!"
Nature's Mirror By E. Cecil McGavin
From the snow-capped peaks on high, Dashes the chill blast with a sigh, Tearing from the nude, shivering trees The few remaining lifeless leaves.
Faintly falling from the blue, The fluffy flakes of frozen dew Attempt to hide all life from view.
Soon a mantle white is spread, And nature seems entombed and dead; Destined to appear no more Arrayed in verdure as before.
Ere long these lifeless forms revive And come again with us to live In greater beauty than before.
Enriched in glory by their sleep The myriad gorgeous flowers peep From every grave where seedling was entombed.
This thought sinks deep into my heart, And when I see my friends depart To enter Death's cold, silent door;
The vision of Nature greets my eyes: Their sleeping dust shall yet arise To join that spirit from the skies, In greater glory than before.
Pioneers
The Emigrant?Johan Bojer By Lois V. Hales
"The last trace of old Norway faded away in the distance and the great liner with its strange freight of human destinies steamed on across the golden evening sea as the sun dipped in the West."
Months later, as the weary emigrants looked out over the wild, never-ending prairie, which later became the Dakotas, they thought of their beloved Norway with its wide fjords, its snow-streaked mountains, and shining lakes. Here there was nothing but an "ocean of earth, undulating in heavy-drawn waves, on and on into the blue distance, till the last wave spent itself somewhere beyond the sky-line." If they got lost here, no one would ever find them. But it was too late to turn back.
Some months earlier Erik Foss, fresh from America, had entered their little farming district with brilliant tales of this great land of opportunity. Here people did and thought as they pleased and money was not the crux of things. In the earth there were neither stones nor stumps. America was a land where the earth was so rich that you could "eat it instead of cream-porridge; where you sowed oats or barley and reaped sweet apples or oranges; where potatoes were yellow as egg yolk and tasted like raisins." It was a country where all their dreams awaited them as realities.
When Erik Foss returned to America he brought with him this little band of emigrants consisting of Morten Kvidal, with his dream of quick wealth and early return to Norway; Per Foll, a thinker; his well-bred wife Anne; Kal Skaret and family, driven by poverty to the border of dishonesty in Norway, but ideal emigrants in this country, where their efforts were rewarded if they were willing to work and trust in their own strength; Ola Vatne, who had run amuck and burned down the Colonel's house and then married his only daughter Else and brought her to America; Jo Berg, a schoolmaster, and Anton Noreng, brother of the sweetheart Morten had left behind. Upon these people Erik Foss, a splendid example of the men who built up America, banked his money and his future.
Work, work, work! Days and months of hardship. Here in America you must either swim or sink. Only thus was it a land of opportunity. Kal used to work early Sunday morning until the others began to stir. "No doubt the Lord could see him; but, then, He was not so particular as one's neighbors here on earth." Life was often very hard, for upon this plain, receding, "always receding, there was not a single obstacle, nothing one could shoulder aside, nothing of any kind. They could never climb up anywhere to get a wider view, or go down into the shade to give their eyes a chance of looking upward." Ola built a small mound of dirt near his home, when he sought refuge when the prairie threatened to overpower him with its level vastness.
When the little sod huts appeared, things seemed better. Then came the forest fire which tested them severely. But as the darkness closed in on the charred prairie each one knew in his heart that he would not even now return to the old country. The prairie had cast upon them its charm.
Then came first winter on the prairie. As the blizzards raged about their little huts, they re-read their letters from home and dreamed of the little, red, yellow, and white houses of Norway, against a landscape so much alive that it fairly danced with joy. Again they watched the herring-boats rowing home after the night's fishing.
Spring came at last with its thousand tasks. Thus year after year of long winters, planting and reaping followed. New emigrants came to live near them. Together they built a little church and brought in a parson to teach them the Word of God. Gradually they evolved into the typical, flourishing community of early pioneering days. Some of them fulfilled a long cherished dream and returned to the homeland, where they found no waiting crowd on the beach and the faces of friends sadly missing. Always they returned to the prairie land which they had conquered and which had conquered them.
Thus reads Johan Bojer's great pioneer novel "The Emigrants." Mr. Bojer has taken several types of emigrants and shown us the way of the prairie with each. Under its influence Ola Vatne takes to drink while Per Foll yields to "the evil intoxication with which the desolate land drenches his head." To Morten this endless expanse of untilled soil seems to be singing a song of the future?of big farms, of railways, of the towns which will spring up. All his life Morten was torn with love for his native country and the country across the sea?America. Mr. Bojer makes us feel keenly this tragedy of the emigrant.
In his powerful way he draws for us the saga of the emigrant. Their long pilgrimage, their fights with Indians, wild beasts, forest fires, frost, locusts?all the trials of the pioneers he pictures for us in such a way that when we close the book we feel almost as if we had lived the life of the pioneer.
"The Emigrants" stands high in all the requirements of good literature. The most notable characteristic to us, however, was its entire lack of sentimentality. It is so easy to become sentimental over our pioneers that it is distinctly refreshing to find a novel simply, humanly, vigorously written and without a sign of sentimentality. At the end, as Morten revisits Norway and contemplates love of country, he says: "If you came back to your native country, you wanted to leave again; if you went away, you longed to come back. Wherever you were, you could hear the call of the home-land, like the note of a herdsman's horn far away in the hills. You had one home out there, and one over here, and yet you were an alien in both places. Your true abiding-place was the vision of something very far off; and your soul was like the waves, always restless, forever in motion."
Flashes from the Eternal Semaphore
A book by Leo J. Muir, of Los Angeles, formerly superintendent of schools in Davis County, Utah, from the press of the Sanders Publishing Company, is entitled "Flashes from the Eternal Semaphore." The flashes are bright lights from seventy centuries of human wisdom, chosen as lamps for the guidance of the youth of our generation.
Semaphores are guides, like the great light-houses to the mariners and ships at sea, like the railroad lights and signals that are "the silent and infallible policemen of the road." The latest of the great highway semaphores are the lights provided for the pilots of the airplanes that fly across the continent?fifty miles apart, but appearing to the pilot as a narrow path of light stretching far over prairies and mountains.
The eternal semaphore is the experience of the race, the judgment of the ages, the voice of the past. Three things this little book aspires to do: throw light upon youth's pathway; impress young men and women with the rigorous certitude of truth and principle; and quicken the respect of youth for the past and its contributions.
In our opinion the book lives up to its aim. Here are some of the flashes that it throws before the pathway of youth:
1. That the pursuit of easy things makes men weak, teaching that if we avoid work, toil, responsibility, we shall weaken ourselves.
2. That the only dominion is self-dominion?that "self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control, lead life to sovereign power."
3. That joy dwells in the ordinary?that doing our best is our highest enjoyment.
4. That "of thy unspoken word thou art master, but thy spoken word is master of thee;"
5. That "whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap," and that "he who lies down with the dogs, arises with the fleas."
6. That eternal law, nature's way, is as old as God, and besides it there is nothing else; that the highest thing in human relationships is the thing we call law, truth, or principle.
Each of the "flashes" is shown to have many rays, which penetrate to the depths the darkest recesses of the human soul and illumine the pathway of man, showing him the road to excellence and how to walk in it.
Notes From the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
The beginning of the year, the time of good resolutions, brings to mind the fact that the annual dues are again to be paid. The value of paying dues promptly has been demonstrated; and it is most gratifying to the Relief Society to note the manner in which the sisters respond to constructive suggestions. The dues for 1929 should be sent to the stake secretary not later than the last of February, and the portion due to the General Board should reach the General Secretary by March 31.
It is a matter of regret that we have not space to print all the fine reports of Relief Society work from every quarter of the field. We aim to make the scope as wide as possible, expressive of the varied forms of activity claiming the attention of our organization, practical, progressive and, as one educator has said, full of soul. The reports of lesson work, of civic campaigns, of teachers' conventions, of ward conferences, bazaars, flower shows, health campaigns, are all eloquent of this spirit. During the past year, the class leaders' conventions have been outstanding in the development of leadership and of improvement in the fine art of teaching; they will bear abundant fruit.
Millard Stake. On July 17, 1928, a class leaders' convention was held in the Fillmore ward chapel, President Hattie Partridge presiding. "Teacher-training," "Better Methods of Teaching," and "Better Teachers," were the subjects for discussion. At 2 p. M. Departmental work was held by the following groups: presidents, secretaries, visiting teachers, class leaders, choristers and organists, literary, theology and social service workers. President Partridge asked the wards to endeavor to have 100% in attendance. One ward came to that standard and all were represented.
North Sanpete Stake. In North Sanpete stake, on August 24, 1928, the Relief Society board conducted a class leaders' convention for workers in all ward organizations of the stake. President Elizabeth D. Christensen was in charge. Elder Guy C. Wilson, the principal speaker, discussed "Better Teacher-Training, Better Qualified teachers, and Teaching."
Benson Stake. Perhaps the largest number of people to attend a convention in Smithfield was that of the Relief Society convention of Benson stake on August 21, 1928. By 9 a. M. The meeting was filled to an overflow. Two sessions were held under the direction of President Effie A. Green. At the close of the afternoon meeting art work was displayed in the quilt contest; each Relief Society entered a competing quilt. The afternoon program was completed by a rug show and a flower show.
Maricopa Stake. This stake, on September 25, 1928, held a very successful class leaders' and visiting teachers' convention. After the opening exercises and roll call showing 130 present, the workers divided into two departments. The visiting teachers, under the care of President Mary A. Clark, considered, with discussions, subjects of interest presented to them by stake officers and others. Class leaders were under the immediate care of stake class directors. Approved methods of presenting lessons were set forth by Professor J. C. Anderson of the Mesa High School.
Tintic Stake. The Tintic stake class leaders' convention was held on September 9, 1928, President Elizabeth Boswell presiding. There were present 75 officers, teachers and members, also representatives of the Priesthood. An address, "Adult Education," was given by Dean L. John Nuttall of the Brigham Young University. Musical numbers were furnished by the Eureka ward Relief Society. Ninety were in attendance at the afternoon session, which included Relief Society workers and members of the Priesthood. Departmental work of presidents, secretaries, choristers and organists was held. Dean Nuttall met with class leaders and members and lectured on "The Beautification of the Home." He also demonstrated, from the Child Study Course, the social service lesson on "How the Child Learns to Express Himself in Language." Musical numbers were rendered by the Mammoth and Goshen ward Relief Societies.
Woodruff Stake. The Woodruff stake Relief Society held class leaders' convention on September 20, 1928, a splendid representation from the different wards of the stake being present. Sixty-five were at the morning meeting, all wards but one being represented. Professor Guy C. Wilson, who is in charge of teacher-training for the Church, was the principal speaker. The keynote of his address was that the Church exists only to serve. "When effective service ceases, the Church is dead. The Church is thoroughly wide awake to the needs of better teaching methods. The basic law of all growth is activity."
Boise Stake. Under the direction of the stake class leaders, an enthusiastic group of Relief Society workers gathered for the Boise stake class leaders' convention, which was held on September 15, 1928. An interesting program was rendered and those present regarded the convention a pronounced success.
Rigby Stake (Lewisville Ward). The Lewisville ward has made a record with the visiting teachers, having 100% in visits for seven years. In such a large and widely scattered ward, this is an accomplishment worthy of real pride. Roosevelt Stake. In the early autumn the Relief Societies of Roosevelt Stake held a flower show. All Relief Society sisters were interested in this project, many exhibiting their flowers. No one else was more anxious that her flowers should look just right than was a Lamanite sister, 87 years old. She had planted flowers in early spring and had carried water to them during the long, hot, dry summer. When the September days came, she was rewarded with splendid blooms; her efforts had not been in vain. In the flower show she had fifteen different varieties on display. Solicitous that these blooms should be arranged just to her special liking, she had traveled eighteen miles on horseback to give them the proper arrangement. Little wonder that she was awarded the first prize. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 99 REORGANIZATIONS Since the publication of the last "Notes from the Field" the following changes have been made in stake organizations: Carbon: Mrs. Margaret E. Marcusen has been released as Secretary-Treasurer and Mrs. Belle John has been chosen to succeed her. North Sevier: Mrs. Malissa Crane was appointed Stake President. Pocatello: In the reorganization the following ex-officers were sustained: Martha Pugmire, President; Lillie Reddish, First Counselor; Ellen D. Walton, Second Counselor; Gladys R. Hall, Secretary and Treasurer. Parowan: Reorganized, November 25, 1928. All officers were released. Barbara M. Adams, President; Nellie M. Clark, First Counselor; Maude M. Dallon, Second Counselor; Anna Rasmussen, Secretary and Treasurer. The Storm Amy McClure The rain comes down! My heart is sad In tune with Pluvius, wrathful, mad! Though lights are gleaming on my wall, Though gay my room and warm, withal, Gone is the peace I might have had. Nature's black mood belongs to me! Stormy my heart and soul must be. And with the gale, emotions rise,? The rain comes down! My thoughts toss like a wind-torn sea, Lashing in world-old tragedy. To me the night's no mystery, Ah! Will it kill this agony? The rain comes down Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in April) TEMPERANCE Temperance is one form of moderation. In this lesson it shall mean the control of appetites to the extent of abstaining from the use of things that are not good and refraining from the excessive use of things that are good. In the realm of appetites or body-born desires, Temperance is the ensign of self control. It is an advertisement of will power well directed. Temperance and Temper Indulgence in that which is not good, or over-indulgence in that which is good, injures one's disposition. Intemperance and irritability are cause and effect, acting and reacting on each other. There is ample evidence of the truth of the aphorism: "The more intemperate, the meaner the man." The stimulant temper is decidedly disagreeable, the narcotic temper is dangerous; the former deals out misfortunes; the latter thrusts tragedies upon mankind. Temperance and Disease Habits of temperance are handmaids of health. They keep the home of our spirits in a condition most favorable for us "to live till we die." Only by the temperate enjoyment of our appetites can we preserve the power to enjoy them. Disease is nature's agent for collecting indulgence debts. It is strikingly strange to what an extent the extravagance of health-destroying indulgence is practiced with the self-illusion of an indefinite postponement of pay-day. The following is the substance of a true story: A person whose nerves became shattered by the tea-drinking habit sent for a specialist. He responded to the call, traveling one hundred and five miles from Salt Lake City by buggy. He diagnosed the case and wrote the following prescription: "Quit drinking tea,' and left. A month passed and the patient who had GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 101 been following the course of treatment to advantage, received the following statement: Mrs. Dr. To Dr. For treatment $2.00?Traveling expenses, 210 miles at $1. 00 per mile, $210.00. Total $212.00. The bill was paid and it is said that the fully recovered patient long afterwards remarked, "It was worth it, but I might have gotten it much cheaper." Very few diseases are inherited from progenitors, but many tendencies toward break-downs are passed on from parents to children through the intemperance of the former. Temperance and Death Someone has said of the temperate man, "Painlessly as a candle burns down in its socket, so will he expire'"?a millennium prediction often being fulfilled today. Strikingly illustrative of the relation of temperance and death was the testimony of President Heber J. Grant, a testifier and pleader who will not be silenced. While telling of his miraculous delivery from death, he said in vindication of the word of the Lord concerning those who practice the Word of Wisdom, "The destroying angel passed me by." Who can tell how many there are living who would now be numbered with the dead had they not lived under the promise of | protection from being struck down prematurely. And one may consistently conclude that, before their time, many have gone beyond because of failure to. Comply with the law upon which the blessing of prolonged life is predicated. The unknown author who wrote "Intemperance is the Prime Minister of Death" found ample evidence of the truthfulness of the statement. National Temperance National temperance, like every other public virtue, is the offspring of individual and family temperance. No unity can rise above the units composing it. Attempts at national temperance have been made by monarchial edicts from time to time, but in our Republic we have the call coming from the people. It is the voice of the governed. The origin, growth, and prospects of this unparalleled temperance movement may be glimpsed through the following: "Yet this was 'the very thing that pushed Frances Willard into the larger work. Her home had been a home of' total abstinence. The Crusade came to Chicago. She was roused and felt 'the call' to work. We include the story of the temperance movement as told by Strachey: The Woman's Christian Temperance Crusade was one of the most remarkable events in the surprising history of American national issues. It was entirely unexpected and came sweeping 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE over the middle states with the violence of a prairie fire; and, like a fire, it burned away the old order of things and made room for a new order to grow. It was, in many respects, a pathetic and even a ridiculous Crusade. The women who joined in it were so sheltered, and they came out with such simple-minded fervor. But it was undoubtedly a most important moral movement, though it is sometimes hard to remember this serious value in the face of the simplicity of the actors. It began almost by accident. Dr. Dio Lewis, a traveling lecturer from Boston, spoke in the little town of Hillsboro, Ohio, on December 22, 1873, on the subject of "Our Girls." Being snowbound, he was forced to spend another night there, and was persuaded to lecture on temperance. In this lecture he suggested that the women in the town should go to the saloon-keepers and beg them not to sell "spirituous liquors." Something in the audience, or in the earnestness of the lecturer, made it all seem real and possible, so that when he called for volunteers, most of the women present rose to their feet. From that moment nothing could have stopped them. Timid ladies, who had never thought of speaking in public, rose up and prayed aloud. White-haired women led the bands out into the streets, and the wives of the "prominent citizens" followed them. All kinds of women joined the Crusade; wives and mothers of drunkards} came sobbing to the meetings. School teachers, foreigners, servants, grandmothers who said they were "of no use except to go along and cry," rich and poor, old and young, all marched out together singing, "Give to the winds your fears," and going boldly into the worst places, until the town seemed to be "given over into the hands of God and the women." "Thus the women of Hillsboro went out in their simplicity to persuade the saloon-keepers "in a spirit of (Christian love, and for the sake of humanity, and their own souls' sake, to quit the hateful, soul-destroying business;" and thus the saloon-keepers, in their surprise, were persuaded. One after another they signed the pledge and closed their stores, and poured their "poison" into the gutters, until within a week there was no more drink sold openly in the whole town. Encouraged by this remarkable success, the women of all the towns roundabout began to follow their example, and the revival spread in every direction until "saloon-keepers had been prayed out of town after town." Temperance became, throughout the western and middle western states, a familiar subject of discussion, and the "Whiskey Power" began to be frightened. Ohio and Illinois seemed to be "going dry." Pennsylvania and even New York were swept by the revival; and everywhere, from Maine to Oregon, the women began to work. Day after day they went on, tramping from saloon to saloon. Often they were treated politely, often they were shut out and abused; in the GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 103 big towns they were mobbed in the streets and sometimes imprisoned. But whatever happened, they "forgot everything but God," and went steadily on with their work. "*They sang their Crusade hymns to the John Brown battle tunes, and began for the first time to learn something of the depravity and wickedness of the cities in which they lived. And it was this learning, and not the uncertain conversions they effected, that made the Crusade an important moral movement. Its value was not that they drove out drink and "pointed sinners to Jesus," for often the drink came back in a few months, and the sinners forgot they were saved; but the value was this, that the women remembered the lessons of the Crusade, and taught them to their daughters. "The Crusade being over, the women who had led it formed an association that would give permanence to the work, which they called the Woman's Christian Temperance Union." Woman's work went on winning after winning was made, culminating with the ratification of the Eighteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States, thus placing the temperance cause under the protection of the fundamental law of our country. How glorious this victory was may be seen in the following: Prohibition was not 'put over' by political wire-pulling: it was the result of overwhelming public sentiment. Three-fifths of our population were already living in 'dry' territory before the Amendment was passed; thirty-three of the forty-eight States had state-wide Prohibition. Moreover, no other amendment to the Federal Constitution was adopted by so many States (only two failed to ratify it) or by such large majorities in' the legislatures. If the moral status of this amendment is questionable, one hates to think of the moral status of some of the other amendments! There is at present a natural wavering of public opinion, owing to disgust at the very incomplete enforcement of the law, to a vigorous campaign of anti-prohibition propaganda, and to the general increase in the spirit of license following the War. But in spite of the very considerable amount of talking being done by opponents of the law, the elections continue to show strong preponderance of 'dry' sentiment; and there is no doubt that if a popular referendum were held it would sustain the law." (The New Morality?Drake, p. 104.) Questions and Problems 1. Discuss the statement: "Temperance is inseparable from a trained temper." 2. Give the scripture that promises protection from the "Destroying Angel." 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 3. How is Temperance related to temper? 4. Describe the Temperance movement previous to the organization of the W. C. T. U. 5. What woman, more than any other, is entitled to be called The Pioneer of Prohibition in the U. S.? Give reasons for your choice. 6. Contrast the forces behind our national temperance movement and the forces now behind it. 7. What has recently happened to justify the statement that "The Nineteenth Amendment saved the Eighteenth". For further information see the article on Frances Willard in the "Champions of Liberty," in the M. I. A. Manual, published in 1927-1928. LESSON II Work and Business (Third Week in April) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR APRIL?ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY Why THE LESSONS IN LITERATURE? I. Uplift. Literature brings to us: a. The best thoughts of the best minds. B. The most exalted feelings of the truest hearts. Professor Demmon of the University of Michigan used to say to his students, "When you think all that Tennyson thought and feel all that Tennyson felt, you may be said to read Tennyson with fill appreciation." II. Reality. There is a correlation between literature and life. A. Literature draws most of its material from life. Consequently it is a source from which we gain much knowledge of life. B. Literature preserves the past. The Bible is a good example of this class of literature. Ill. Variety. Literature helps us to become acquainted with people in many walks of life and with inhabitants of many climes. A. Literature reveals us to ourselves. B. Literature makes us acquainted with types wholly unlike ourselves?persons with backgrounds entirely different from our own, thus furnishing us with much interesting material for self-study and for comparison with the aims and hopes of others. C. Literature brings us to know certain varieties of life with GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 105 which we may never have actual contact. - It thus broadens, deepens and immeasurably enlarges the horizon of our lives. IV. Style. Literature furnishes us with thoughts and emotions written and spoken in the most effective forms. A. Our choicest poetry is in this class. Much of our best prose and choicest drama is also included. B. It is from this grade of literature that we obtain our quotable passages popular with writers and speakers. For example: "Plato is a friend, Socrates is a friend, but truth is a greater friend than all." "To be able to enjoy in memory your former life is to live twice over." "As for the truth, it endureth, and is always strong; it liveth and conquereth forevermore." "A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels. "My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother." "The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are bold as a lion." "And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord, And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior. For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden: for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed." "He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree." 106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON III Literature (Third Week in April) JOHN GALSWORTHY John Galsworthy, one of a group of brilliant British playwrights, was born in Coombe, Surrey, in 1867. His childhood was passed in a home of culture; his college education was obtained at Oxford, where he took a degree in law. The thought of his people was that he should follow law, but he became deeply interested in his fellowmen and very much aroused over the striking injustices of modern life; he therefore turned to literature, as law did not prove as much to his liking. He began his literary career with a group of novels, The Man of Property, The Country House, and Fraternity. Being among the best. In 1906, The Silver Box was produced in London; in 1907, Joy; in 1909, Strife, and in 1910, Justice. This group of plays established his reputation as one of the foremost writers of English drama of the day. The Skin Game, Old English, and Loyalties, are three of his later plays that have attracted a good deal of attention. JUSTICE ?BY JOHN GALSWORTHY Justice opens in the law office of James and Walter How. A young clerk by the name of Falder has changed a check, raising it from nine pounds to ninety. The officers have been brought i in and Mr. James and Walter How, members of the firm, are discussing the matter. We introduce the dialogue where the officer enters. Mr. James How says: Good morning, Mr. Cowley! Mr. Cowley responds: Good morning. Cokeson, an employee of the office (with stupefaction): Good morning. Walter: What are you going to do? James: Have him in. Give me the check and the counterfoil. Cokeson: I don't understand. I thought young Davis. James: We shall see. Walter: One moment, father: have you thought it out? James: Call him in! Cokeson (Rising with difficulty and opening Falder's door; hoarsely): Step in here a minute. Falder (Impassively): Yes, sir? James (Turning to him suddenly with the check held out): You know this check, Falder? Falder:. No, sir. James: Look at it. You cashed it last Friday week. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 107 Falder: Oh! Yes, sir; that one?Davis gave it to me. James: I know. And you gave Davis the cash? Falder: Yes, sir. James: When Davis gave you the check was it exactly like this? Falder: Yes, I think so, sir. James: You know that Mr. Walter drew that check for nine pounds? Falder: No, sir?ninety. James: Nine, Falder. Falder (Faintly): I don't understand, sir. James: The suggestion, of course, is that the check was altered; whether by you or Davis is the question. Falder: I?I?. Cokeson: Take your time, take your time. Falder (Regaining his impassivity): Not by me, sir. Falder makes an attempt to lay the blame on Mr. Davis, another member of the firm, who has left on an ocean voyage. It develops that the nought was added to the nine in the counterfoil on Tuesday and Mr. Davis had sailed on Monday, so that it was apparent that he had not done it. James: In the face of the evidence presented do you still deny that you altered both check and counterfoil? Falder: No, sir?no, Mr. How.: I did it, sir; I did it. Mr. James How, the elder member of the firm, who is a keen defender of the law, despite his son's suggestion that this is Falder's first offense and his quotation of Shakespeare's famous lines, "the quality of mercy is not strained," insists on Falder's arrest. As Detective-Sergeant Wister goes toward Falder the latter recoils. Falder: Oh! No,?oh! No! Wister: Come, come, there's a good lad. James: I charge him with felony. Falder: Oh, sir! There's someone?I did it for her. Let me be till tomorrow. Act II gives us the court scene. We have here one of the best court scenes in our literature. Mr. Galsworthy's training in law is evident all through. We are introduced to Ruth, the woman referred to by Falder at the moment of his arrest. When Ruth visited the office and Cokeson, the clerk, tried to keep her from Falder, she declared that it was a matter of life and death. Here are some of the things she said to Falder at that meeting. Ruth (In a low, hurried voice): He's on the drink again. Will. He tried to cut my throat last night. I came out with the children before he was awake. I went round to you?. Falder: I?ve changed my digs. Ruth: Is it all ready for tonight? 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Falder: I've got the tickets. Meet me at 11:45 at the booking office. Don't forget we're man and wife! (Looking at her with tragic intensity) Ruth! Ruth: You're not afraid of going, are you? Falder: Have you got your things, and the children's? Ruth: Had to leave them, for fear of waking Honeywill, all but one bag. I can't gu near home again. Falder (Wincing): All that money gone for nothing. How much must you have? Ruth: Six pounds?l could do with that, I think. Valder: Don't give away where we're going. (As if to himself.) When I get out there I mean to forget it all. Ruth: If you're sorry, say so. I'd sooner he killed me than take you against your will.. Falder (With a queer smile): We've got to go. I don't care; I'll have you. - Ruth: You've just to say; it's not too late. Falder: It is too late. Here's seven pounds. Booking office?11:45 tonight. If you weren't what you are to me, Ruth?! Ruth: Kiss me! (They cling together passionately, then fly apart just as Cokeson re-enters the room. Ruth turns and goes out through the outer office. Cokeson advances deliberately to his chair and seats himself. ) In this conversation we get at the heart of the matter. Ruth Hloneywill is the victim of the outrages of a drunken husband and she has told the story of her bitter life to Falder. Filled with sympathy he makes love to her and attempts to take her away from England where later they can become husband and wife and he can assume the responsibility of her family. This is the condition that brought about the temptation that caused Falder to change the check. Despite the plea of his attorney Falder is sentenced. Falder is called up for sentence. The Clerk: Prisoner at the bar, you stand convicted of felony. Have you anything to say for yourself, why the Court should not give you judgment according to law? Falder shakes his head. The Judge: William Falder, you have been given fair trial and found guilty, in my opinion rightly found guilty, of forgery. You are a clerk in a lawyer's office?that is a very serious element in this case; there can be no possible excuse for you on the ground that you were not fully conversant with the nature of the crime you were committing and the penalties that attach to it. The crime you have committed is a very serious one. I cannot feel it in accordance with my duty to Society to exercise the powers I have in your favor. You will go to penal servitude for three years. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 109 (Falder, who throughout the Judge's speech has looked at him steadily, lets his head fall forward on his breast. Ruth starts up from her seat as he is taken out by the warders. There is a bustle in court.) ? In act three we have the prison scene. Cokeson, the managing clerk, has been to the prison to visit Falder and is considerably upset at what he sees. He goes to the governor, or what in this country would be called the warden, of the prison, to make some suggestions in relation to Falder's treatment carried forth by the following dialogue: Cokeson: I'm sorry to trouble you. I've been talking to the young man. The Governor: We have a good many here. Cokeson: Name of Falder, forgery. (Producing a card and handing it to the Governor.) Firm of James and Walter How. Well known in the law. The Governor (Receiving the card with a faint smile): What do you want to see me about, sir? Cokeson (Suddenly seeing the prisoners at exercise): Why! What a sight! The Governor: Yes, we have that privilege from here; my office is being done up. (Sitting down at his table) Now, please! Cokeson (Dragging his eyes with difficulty from the window): I wanted to say a word with you; I shant keep you long. (Confidentially) Fact is, I oughtn't to be here by rights. His sister came to me?he's got no father and mother?and she was in some distress.. "My husband won't let tne go and see him," she asid; "says he's disgraced the family. And his other sister," she said. "is an invalid." And she asked me to come. Well, I take an interest in him. He was our junior?I go to the same chapel? and I didn't like to refuse. And what I wanted to tell you was, he seems lonely here. The Governor: Not unnaturally. Cokeson: I'm afraid it'll prey on my mind. I see a lot of them about working together. The Governor: Those are local prisoners. The convicts serve their three months here in separate confinement, sir. Cokeson: But we don't want to be unreasonable. He's quite downhearted. I wanted to ask you to let him run about with the others. The Governor (With faint amusement): Ring the bell? would you, Miller? (To Cokeson) You'd like to hear what the doctor says about him, perhaps. The Chaplain (Ringing the bell): You are not accustomed to prisons, it would seem, sir. Cokeson: No. But it's a pitiful sight. He's quite a young fellow. I said to him: "Before a month's up," I said, "you'll 110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE be out and about with the others; it'll be a nice change for you." "A month!" he said?like that!" "Come!" I said, "we mustn't exaggerate. What's a month? Why it's nothing!" "A day," he said, "shut up in your cell thinking and brooding as I do, it's longer than a year outside. I can't help it,' he said; "I try?but I'm built that way, Mr. Cokeson." And he held his hand up to his face. I, could see the tears trickling through his fingers. It wasn't nice. The Chaplain: He's a young man with large, rather peculiar eyes, isn't he? Not Church of England, I think? Cokeson: No. The Chaplain: I know. The Governor (To Wooder, who has come in): Ask the doctor to be good enough to come here for a minute. (Wooder salutes and goes out.) Let's see, he's not married? Cokeson: No, (Confidentially) But there's a party he's very much attached to, not altogether com-il-fo. It's a sad story. The Chaplain: If it wasn't for drink and women, sir, this prison might be closed. Cokeson (Looking at the Chaplain over his spectacles): Ye-es, but I wanted to tell you about that special. He had hopes they'd have let her come and see him, but they haven't. Of course he asked me questions. I did my best, but I couldn't tell the poor young fellow a lie, with him in here?seemed like hitting him. 3ut I'm afraid it's made him worse. The Governor: What was this news then? Cokeson: Like this. The woman has a nasty, spiteful feller for a husband, and she's left him. Fact is, she was going away with our young friend. It's not nice?but I've looked over it. Well, when he was put in here she said she'd earn her living apart, and wait for him to come out. That was a great consolation to him. But after a month she came to me?I don't know her personally?and she said: "I can't earn the children's living, let alone my own?I've got no friends. I'm obliged to keep out of everybody's way, else my husband get to know where I was. I?m very much reduced," she said. And she has lost flesh. "T'll have to go in the workhouse!" It's a painful story. I said to her: "No," I said, "not that! I've got a wife an' family, but sooner than you should do that I'll spare you a little my self." "Really," she said?she's a nice creature?''I don't like to take it from you. I think I'd better go back to my husband." Well, I know he's a nasty, spiteful feller?drinks?but I didn't like to persuade her not to. The Chaplain: Surely, no. Cokeson: Ye-es, but I'm sorry now; it's upset the poor young fellow dreadfully. And what I wanted to say was: He's got his three years to serve. I want things to be pleasant for him. GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 111 The Chaplain (With a touch of impatience): The Law hardly shares your view, I'm afraid. Cokeson: But I can't help thinking that to shut him up there by himself I'll turn him silly. And nobody wants that, s'pose. I don't like to see a man cry. The Chaplain: It's a very rare thing for them to give way like that. Cokeson (Looking at him?in a tone of sudden dogged hostility.) I keep dogs. The Chaplain: Indeed? Cokeson: Ye-es. And I say this: I wouldn't shut one of them up all by himself, month after month, not if he'd bit me all over. The Chaplain: Unfortunately, the criminal is not a dog; he has a sense of right and wrong. Cokeson: But that's not the way to make him feel it. The Chaplain: Ah! There I'm afraid we must differ. Cokeson: It's the same with dogs. If you treat 'em with kindness they'll do anything for you; but to shut 'em up alone, it only makes 'em savage. The Chaplain: Surely you should allow those who have had a little more experience than yourself to know what is best for prisoners. Cokeson (Doggedly): I know this young feller, I've watched him for years. He's neurotic?got no stamina. His father died of consumption. I'm thinking of his future. If he's to be kept there shut up by himself, without a cat to keep him company, it'll do him harm. I said to him: ''Where do you feel it?" "I can't tell you, Mr. Cokeson," he said, "but sometimes I could beat my head against the wall." It's not nice. The Governor: This gentleman thinks the separate is telling on QO 3007?Falder, young "thin fellow, star class. What do you say. Doctor Clements? The Doctor: He doesn't like it, but it's not doing him any harm. Cokeson: But he's told me. The Doctor: Of course he'd say so, but we can always tell. He's lost no weight since he's been here. Cokeson: It's his state of mind I'm speaking of. The Doctor: His mind's all tight so far. He's nervous, rather melancholy. I don't see signs of anything more. I'm watching him carefully. Cokeson: I'm glad to hear you say that. The Chaplain: It's just at this period that we are able to make some impression on them, sir. I am speaking from my special standpoint. 112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Cokeson: I don't want to be unpleasant, but having given him this news, I do feel it's awkward. The Governor: I'll make a point of seeing him today. Cokeson: I'm much obliged to you. I thought perhaps seeing him every day you wouldn't notice it. The Governor: If any sign of injury to his health shows itself, his case will be reported at once. That's fully provided for. Cokeson: Of course, what you don't see doesn't trouble you; but having seen him, I don't want to have him on my mind. The Governor: I think you may safely leave it to us, sir. Cokeson: J thought you'd understand me. I'm a plain man? never set myself up against authority. Nothing personal meant. Good morning. The Chaplain: Our friend seems to think that prison is a hospital. Cokeson (Returning suddenly with an apologetic air): There's just one little thing. This woman?I suppose I mustn't ask you to let him see her. It'd be a rare treat for them both. He's thinking about her all the time. Of course she's not his wife. But he's quite safe in here. They're a pitiful couple. You couldn't make an exception? The Governor: As you say, my dear sir, I couldn't make an exception; he won't be allowed another visit of any sort till he goes to a convict prison. Despite the protest made by the governor, the chaplain and the prison doctor, Falder comes out of prison changed very much for the worse both mentally and physically. In act four he is given work by a man who understands conditions; but the other people learn of his past and make it so disagreeable for him that he cannot continue. Then he finds work again but loses it because of the difficulty of references. One day Ruth happens on to him in the park. She is so upset at his thin, emanciated look that she goes to his old firm and pleads with Cokeson to try to do something for him. There is a vacancy and Cokeson has hopes that Falder will be considered for the position. Walter, who has always been sympathetic to Falder, says: I think we owe him a leg up. | James: He brought it all on himself. Walter: The doctrine of full responsibility doesn't hold in these days. James (Rather grimly): You'll find it safer to hold it for all that, my boy. Walter: For oneself, yes?not for other people, thanks. James: Well, I don't want to be hard. Mr. James How has Falder come up to the office and they talk matters over. He insists that if he is accepted again in their law firm that he must give Ruth up. Falder says he cannot; GUIDE LESSONS FOR APRIL 113 that it is the one thing for which he looked forward to all during his imprisonment. He assures Mr. James and Walter How that nothing of an immeral nature has ever occured between them. He says that if they had money she could get a divorce and they could be married, and he could take care of her. Mr. Walter How says that he thinks that he can furnish the money. When Cokeson visited Falder while he was in prison he told him that Ruth had asked about going back to her husband. When she entered the office this morning before Falder, Cokeson got her story. She said that her husband treated her worse than ever; that when he had broken her health he began mistreating her children and as she could not stand that she left him and made an effort to keep them by sewing. That although she worked until midnight she only made ten shillings a week, which is equal to $2.50 in United States money, and that, of course, would not support her children. They were growing thin and were impoverished and as she had no one to turn to, her father having been very much displeased because of her marriage to Honeywill, her employer happened along and she accepted the situation as a means of supporting her children. She tells Cokeson that, whatever else she has done, she has been able to keep her children. While Falder is insisting that if he had the money he could get a divorce and all would be well, there is something in the looks of the men who surround him that makes him suddenly aware that all is not right. Ruth promises Mr. James How that she will leave him alone. This does not add particularly to Falder's comfort. While Falder is getting some notion of what has happened to Ruth, Detective Wister happens in again, saying that Falder is only on parole and that for a number of weeks he has not made a report.
James: What do you want with him? Wister: He's failed to report himself this last four weeks. Walter: How d'you mean? Wister: Ticket-of-leave won't be up for another six months, sir. Walter: Has he to keep in touch with the police till then? Wister: We're bound to know where he sleeps every night. I dare say we shouldn't interfere, sir, even though he hasn't reported himself. But we've just heard there's a serious matter of obtaining employment with a forged reference. What with the two things together?we must have him.
Mr. James How does what he can to shield Falder, but Wister takes him and Ruth faints. While they are seeking to revive Ruth, they note Wister and Sweedle are carrying some burden. Wister supplies the information by saying: He jumped. Neck's broken.
Walter: Good God! Wister: He must have been mad to think he could give me the slip like that. And what was it?just a few months! Walter (Bitterly): Was that all? James: What a desperate thing! (Then, in a voice unlike his own) Run for a doctor?you! An ambulance!
Wister goes out. On Ruth's face an expression of fear and horror has been seen growing, as if she dared not turn towards the voices. She now rises and steals towards them.
Walter (Turning suddenly): Look.
The three men shrink back out of her way, one by one, into Cokeson's room. Ruth drops on her knees by the body.
Ruth (In a whisper): What is it? He's not breathing. (She crouches over him.) My dear! My pretty!
In the outer office doorway the figures of men are seen standing.
Ruth (Leaping to her feet): No! No! No, no! He's dead! (The figures of the men shrink back.)
Cokeson (Stealing forward. In a hoarse voice): There, there, poor dear woman! (At the sound behind her Ruth faces round at him.)
Cokeson: No one'll touch him now! Never again! He's safe with gentle Jesus!
The Problem of the Play
There is much irony in the title of this play. Galsworthy calls it "Justice," to be sure, but it is such justice as the law provides. Galsworthy would have us recognize that legal justice is not necessarily real justice, and he presents the case to us that we may judge for ourselves. Relief Society workers have been interested in the prison problem. Galsworthy presents a prison problem here. There is a good deal of discussion today about various phases of the law. This play is a good example of a wise saying that has come to us out of the past, that "the letter killeth and the spirit giveth life." Falder aimed to do a good thing but he does it in a bad way, and those who should be his helpers fail to extend the mercy which seemed rightly his. Ruth strives to take care of her children until Falder returns from prison, but meets an economic situation that makes the thing impossible, consequently she sacrifices her honor for the sake of her children, but she can see no other way out. Is she wholly to blame? Falder when out of prison is required to furnish references in order to obtain employment. He is unable to do so and forges a reference. Is he solely to blame? The law is rigidly enforced by officers who do not feel that they are justified in taking into account motives. The result is that Falder is driven to his death and Ruth becomes a dishonored mother. Galsworthy intends that his audience shall sympathize with both Falder and Ruth, hoping as a result that an attempt will be made to do something that will prevent men and women from being victimized as Ruth and Falder were, because of social and economic conditions. The problem in this lesson takes the place of the usual problems and questions.
LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in April)
THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE
Lesson 13. Provisions for Mentally Superior Children. (Based on Chapter 14, The Child: His Nature and His Needs.)
Since the preceding lesson which was devoted to the question of intellectual inferiority, it seems logical that we now consider the intellectually superior child. This very able chapter was prepared by Dr. Leta S. Hollingworth, Professor of Education, Teachers' College, Columbia University. Dr. Hollingworth is a woman of unusual attainment; she has written extensively on the subject of special abilities and disabilities in school children.
A. How Many Children Are Superior?
Since the advent of intelligence tests it has been possible to compare the intelligence scores of school children in large numbers. Hundreds of thousands of tests in this country have yielded the following distribution of intelligence, which may be regarded as fairly applicable to most communities.
Distribution of Brightness and Dullness in Children
I. Q. Percent. Of (Intelligence All Children Quotient) Gifted.............................Above 140 0.25 Very Superior......................120 ? 140 6.75 Superior...........................110 ? 120 13.00 Average............................90 ? 110 60.00 Dull...............................80 ? 90 13.00 Borderline.........................70 ? 80 6.00 Feebleminded.......................Below 70 1.00 100%
*The Intelligence Quotient is derived as follows: M. A. (Mental Age) C. A. (Chronological Age) = I. Q.
For further information on mental testing see Lewis M. Terman, "The Measurement of Intelligence," Houghton-Mifflin Co., Boston; or Rudolph Pinter, "Intelligence Testing," Holt & Co., New York.
It will be noted from the table that about twenty per cent of all school children can be said to be superior. As this superiority increases, the number and proportion of other children decreases. That is to say that while 13 per cent of school children may roughly be said to have an intelligence quotient of 110-120, yet only 7 per cent of children can be said to have intelligence quotients about 120. Stated differently, this means that 20 out of 100 school children selected at random are of such superiority as to demand special educational facilities and guidance. Again this means that about six children out of the average hundred are of such superiority as to warrant even more flexible classification and more intensified guidance in the schools. The word "gifted," it will be noted, is usually confined to those whose intelligence quotient is 140 and above. This distinction, however, is so rare that it probably appears in only (about) two out of every thousand school children.
For reasons which Dr. Hollingworth makes plain, one should guard against assuming that every community will have intelligence distributed according to the above general formula. In this, as in all other forms of statistical generalization, it should be remembered that many small groups can be found in which the expected distribution does not appear. It is a statistical rule, applicable here, that such generalizations are valid in proportion as the number of children considered is large; and invalid in proportion as the group is small.
B. Terman's Study of Genius
A few years ago the Commonwealth Fund of New York City set aside a large sum of money for the study of genius. Dr. Lewis M. Terman, of mental-testing fame, was awarded these research funds in order to study the mental and physical traits of a thousand gifted children. These children were sought out from the school populations of Los Angeles, San Francisco, Oakland, and included all children with an I. Q. of 140 or above. The method was to ascertain and measure as many other characteristics of these children as could possibly be determined?race, height, weight, school progress, play interests, character, status of parents. The results of this very interesting study* are
*"The Genetic Studies of Genius," Volume 1, Stanford University Press.
summarized in Dr. Terman's conclusions, from which the following extracts are taken:
"There is no shred of evidence to support the widespread opinion * * * that the intellectually precocious child is weak, undersized, or nervously unstable."
"In a majority of cases the superior or gifted child is evidenced at an early age. Among the most commonly mentioned indications are intellectual curiosity, wealth of miscellaneous information, and desire to learn to read."
"A majority of (these) children * * * had the advantage of superior cultural influence in the home."
"It is evidently a rare experience for a gifted child to be given work * * * commensurate with his intellectual abilities."
"The one-sidedness of precocious children is mythical."
"The common opinion that intellectually superior children are characterized by deficiency of play interests has been shown to be wholly unfounded."
"The play interests of the gifted boy are above, rather than below, the normal in degree of 'masculinity'." (Contrary to the popular view that a "bright boy" is necessarily a "sissy.")
"These (gifted children) surpass unselected children in tests of honesty, trustworthiness, and similar moral traits."
"One of the most astonishing facts brought out in this investigation is that one's best chance of identifying the brightest child in a school room is to examine the birth records and select the youngest, rather than to take the one rated as brightest by the teacher."
C. The Guidance of Superior Children
The last-quoted statement from Dr. Terman's conclusions, that superior children are apt to be unnoticed by the teacher, is very significant for parents and school-workers generally. This means that many superior children are not only unknown to their parents and their teachers, but are also inadequately provided for in the home and in the school.
The most important corollary of these and other well-known facts in regard to superior children is that they should be given tasks and stimulation commensurate with their abilities. It is a well-known principle that unless children are supplied with tasks which challenge their best and greatest abilities, they are prone to become disinterested and poorly adjusted. Many children of superior ability develop a distaste for school and for education generally, and later become delinquent, because of the failure of teachers and parents to furnish tasks which challenge their capacity.
There is another danger in this characteristic failure to stimulate superior children up to the point of their capacity, and that is in regard to what may be called the feeling or attitude of superiority. It does not take a superior child very long to discover the difference between his own ability and that of other children. If, throughout his school career, he is required to compete with his inferior associates he will naturally develop a warped sense of his own superiority. If, on the other hand, he is placed in competition with children of his own mental ability, he will be less likely to develop this unwholesome attitude of superiority.
This brings us to a consideration of the best methods of dealing with superior children in the public schools. There are several ways by which this problem can be met by the forward-looking school system. The commonest method is for the superior children of a given age to be organized into a special group within the grade and labeled "Group 1," or "Section A," or "B". In this way the curriculum can be enriched and the teacher can supply tasks and furnish guidance to challenge the child's ability.
A second method, also very common, is to promote the child as fast as he completes the work of a given grade. While this scheme has many advantages, it has the serious disadvantage, especially in the case of pre-adolescent children, of super-inducing precocity on the social and sexual side.
A third method, the most superior of them all, although the most costly, is the method of individual instruction. At Winnetka, Illinois, for instance, all children are given an opportunity to travel through the school at their own rate. They are classified and promoted in terms of their ability in specific subjects, and not, as is usually the case in the public schools, in terms of their chronological or mental age.
Superior children should, of course, not be "crowded." Neither should they be held back and forced to mark time merely because the school organization is inadequate to cope with individual differences. That school system is best which, irrespective of method or organization, makes possible the maximum development of each child according to his general intelligence, and his special abilities or disabilities.
QUESTIONS
1. What are the signs of superiority in infants, children, adolescents?
2. Why is it that parents usually underestimate the superiority of their superior children?
3. What is significant in the fact that children who do well in school are larger and stronger than those who do poorly?
4. Do superior children tend to become superior adults?
5. How do you explain the fact that parents of superior children usually produce comparatively small families?
6. How do you harmonize the facts of individual differences with the theory of democracy? Criticize the proposition: "Schools cannot equalize children; schools can only equalize opportunity?"
7. What provision do the schools in your community make for superior, for very superior, and for gifted children?
"No lady can have a better safeguard against adversities of fortune or a better recourse in time of need than a knowledge of business affairs." ? Harriet Beecher Stowe.
?the practical courses in this school prepare you for rapid advancement.
L. D. S. Business College
Write today for full particulars.
ENTER ANY MONDAY
Complete Printing and Binding Service
OFFICE AND BANK RULING AND FORMS BOOK BINDING
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS
We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.?Write us about them.
The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Is Your House in Order:
Don't let 1929 slip by like the past years have done?with your family's destiny a question?Beneficial Life Insurance puts the future on a definite basis and removes those dreaded dangers.
Participating Insurance at Low Non-Participating Rates
This participating benefit is extended to every policyholder of the Beneficial, the old as well as the new?All will share in the profits of the Company.
Our Juvenile insurance is written on the standard form basis, giving insurance for the children that is really worth while.
It is now possible for the entire family to be protected by BENEFICIAL INSURANCE.
It will pay you to see the local representative of the BENEFICIAL who will be pleased to furnish, without obligation, information and advice on your insurance problems.
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Home Office Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City THE BIG HOME COMPANY Heber J. Grant, President
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
