An Overall with a Classy Appearance
MOUNTAINEER EXPRESS STRIPE OVERALLS
GUARANTEED FOR QUALITY, FIT, AND SERVICE
A clean, neat appearing garment for the Store Clerk, the Flour Mill Operator, the Dairyman, the Garage Man, the Teamster
None Too Large None Too Small
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Tasty... Nutritious
Purity Vegetized Wafers
VITAMINS A-B-C-D-E and 16 minerals of 5 fresh vegetables combined with pure wholewheat make them good to eat and better for you.
Contains Fresh Vegetables
MADE IN SALT LAKE BY THE PURITY BISCUIT CO.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Seven Times Champion of the World
Sent to you on Free Trial
For Sale by
Utah Power & Light Co.
And
Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co.
177 E. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
WINTER NUMBERS
Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for winter wear:
No. 1—New Style, ribbed lgt. wt. Cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent ladies' number $1.25
No. 2—Old Style, ribbed lgt. wt. Cotton, our standard summer number 1.25
No. 3—Ribbed med. wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number 1.90
No. 4—Ribbed heavy wt., unbleached cot. Our double back number 2.25
No. 5—Part wool, ribbed unbleached. Our best selling wool number 3.00
No. 6—High grade rayon tricot silk. For particular people $2.50
No. 7—Pure worsted wool with silkine mercerized. Our best med. weight winter number 4.00
No. 8—Ribbed heavy wt. unbleached cot. And wool. Our 50% wool number 3.50
No. 9—Ribbed med. Weight, Wool and cotton. Our light weight winter number 4.35
No. 10—100% pure worsted wool, med. weight. The ideal garment for those who want all wool 8.00
In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid.
ORDER BY MAIL OR CALL AT STORE—THE ORIGINAL
UTAH WOOLEN MILLS
Briant Stringham, Manager
28 Richards Street ½ Block South of Temple Gate
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
HOME ELECTRIC SERVICE
Saves labor, time, energy, worry and money—and makes the home a pleasanter and happier place to LIVE in. We invite you to come to any of our stores to inspect the large variety of electric servants available. There are certainly some that you will want.
Utah Power & Light Co.
Efficient Public Service
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Good grade, and well made. When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid. Sample on request.
142 Flat Weave, Lt. Weight $.95
208 Carded Cotton, Med. Lt. 1.45
32 Combed Cotton, Light Wt. 1.50
222 Cotton, Rayon Stripes 1.65
258 Double Card. Cot., Med. Wt. 1.85
628 Merc. Lisle, Light Wt. 2.00
108 Unbleached Cot., Med. Wt. 1.85
264 Rayon Silk 2.50
217 Fine Lisle, Rayon Stripe 2.25
748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.00
754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.25
908 Unbleached Cot., Ex. Hvy. 2.75
1072 Mixed Wool and Cotton 4.00
BARTON & CO.
Established in Utah 45 Years
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
Salt Lake City, Utah
Special Sunday Bricks and Neapolitan 25¢ pt., 50¢ qt.
Extra packed in ice.
Keeley's Dealer.
Phone Was. 999
SALT LAKE COSTUME CO.
JOHN HANSEN, Pres. and Mgr.
PLAY BOOKS. If it's a play the Costume Company has it.
OPERA SCORES, Grease Paints and Costumes.
Send for Catalog
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
L. D. S. GARMENTS
Direct From Factory
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.
No. 68 Ribbed ex. Light Cotton Knee length $.75
No. 68 Old style or new style ¾ or long legs .85
No. 74 Ribbed light wt. Cot. 1.10
No. 76 Ribbed lt. Wt. Lisle 1.35
No. 64 Ribbed Med. lt. Cot. 1.35
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Cot. 1.70
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached Double Back 1.70
No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton bleached 2.15
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., Unbleached Double Back 2.15
No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle 1.85
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 3.35
No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool 3.85
No. 37 Ribbed Med. Wt. 60% Wool and Silk Stripe 4.65
WHITE TEMPLE PANTS 8 oz. Heavy Duck $1.75
WHITE SHIRTS Collar Attached or Without $1.95
DUOFOLD UNDERWEAR 100% Wool outside, Cotton inside. Natural Color $4.85
WRIGHT'S UNDERWEAR 100% Wool, Salmon or Natural Color $5.35
In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight.
SPECIAL—When you order three pair of garments or hose at one time we allow you a 15% discount on the third pair. Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid.
Cutler
36 So. Main 35 West Broadway
GARMENTS
LONG WEARING
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
DISTRIBUTOR FOR
Sager Metal Weatherstrip
For Doors and Windows
ROLSCREENS — Ideal for Casements. The World's Finest Screen.
BOSTWICK—Goodell Venetian Blinds. More Light and Air — Without Glare.
INSULATION for CEILINGS—Warmer in Winter—Cooler in Summer.
WHEN you install Sager Metal Weatherstrip you are assured of these comforts:
1. Protection from cold draughts to chill you.
2. Quiet. No rattling windows, open or closed.
3. Fuel savings. U. S. Dept. Agr. Reports 25% to 40%.
4. Clean walls, furnishings, draperies. Less housework, decorating costs are cut.
A written guarantee that pledges performance of every promise. By a Home Company Recommended by Leading Architects and Contractors.
R. E. BREWER CO.
135 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah
USE TRUSLER'S FLOUR
Made in SALT LAKE CITY
Radio Station K. S. L. Or this Publication.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

CONTENTS
Portrait of Louise Yates Robison Frontispiece
Louise Yates Robison Jennie Brimhall Knight 3
New Year Visions Alice Morrill 6
Counselor Amy Brown Lyman (with portrait) Mary Connelly Kimball 7
I Wonder J. B. Green 12
Resignation Henry Van Dyke 12
Counselor Julia Alleman Child (with portrait) Julia A. F. Lund 13
Awakening Mary Hale Woolsey 17
General Secretary Julia A. Farnsworth Lund (with portrait) May Booth Talmage 18
Editorial—President Louise Yates Robison 22
Counselor Amy Brown Lyman 23
Counselor Julia Alleman Child 25
Secretary and Treasurer Julia A. F. Lund 26
The Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest 27
A Song for New Years Shirley Reid Gudmundsen 31
My Neighbor (first prize poem) Alice M. Walker 31
Etched (second prize poem) Josephine Spencer 31
The Miracle Rosanna C. Irvine 31
Pioneers Lois V. Hales 32
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123

VOL. XVI JANUARY, 1929 NO. 1
Louise Yates Robison
PRESIDENT OF NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
By Jennie Brimhall Knight
Across the street from our home stands a group of beautiful, large maple trees. For a long time they have been a constant joy to all who come their way. The green leaves of spring speak hope, testifying of the coming of grateful shade to relieve the hot summer sun. Then, with their message of good cheer, beautiful beyond expression of brush or pen, come the glorious tints of autumn. These trees were planted by Louise Yates Robison when Provo was her home city. They are typical of her, for throughout her life she has sought to have beauty take the place of barrenness, to see that comfort and succor come to the rescue of those exposed to the fiery darts of want and poverty, and with words of cheer to make more colorful and happy the lives of the downhearted and depressed.
Among women who are blessed in being well born is our new president. Her birth occurred in Millard County on May 27, 1866. Her father was Thomas Yates; her mother, Elizabeth Francis Yates. She says, "I am thankful that I was born to those splendid parents, who were refined, spiritual and loving." Throughout life her father and mother were devoted lovers. They left their native land for the faith they had in the gospel, and bequeathed to their children a reverence for God, for his works, for his promises. Their daughter, following their worthy example, has a perfect trust in the Lord and deep respect for his authority here on earth. In pioneer days her father was bishop of Scipio; her mother a worker in the ward Relief Society and later president of the Millard Stake Relief Society?facts that bear witness to their leadership.
When very young Louise learned to share with others her food and shelter as well as the companionship of her father and mother. In this home the foundation was laid for our new president's work in the Relief Society.
Sister Robison got her schooling in her home town and was for a season a student at the Brigham Young University. At that time Karl G. Maeser was principal?a fact that she appreciates. With hundreds of other students she received abundant spiritual enrichment through contact with his life.
When a very young girl she was married to Joseph Lyman Robison, and thus her career as a student was cut short. Millard County has produced more than its share of gifted people, a fact indicating that a number of unusual families located in that section. Among these was the Robison family, and Joseph Lyman is a scion of that stock. It has been my good fortune to know the members of these families rather well and whenever they speak of young men of promise of Millard County, of the earlier period, they usually name Joseph Lyman Robison as one of them.
Many years of Mrs. Robison's life have been devoted to home making. Her two sons, like her brother Thomas, an engineer, are of the professional class. Her eldest son, Harold, who received his M. D. at the Rush Medical College in Chicago and his Master's Degree in Philadelphia, is a prominent physician of Los Angeles, California. Her son Rulon is endowed with exceptional musical ability; he has a rich tenor voice and is a member of the faculty of the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston. She has four daughters?Florence, Winifred, Gladys and Dorothy, all married. Their mother's tribute is "my daughters are as successful homemakers and mothers as my sons are successful professional men." People who have come in contact with this family have been impressed by their mutual devotion and by the endearing terms with which they address each other. Having seen some of the daughters, I know that their mother is justified in her estimate of their ability.
In one capacity or another Louise Yates Robison has served the Church a great many years of her life. Before her marriage she was an officer in the Y. L. M. I. A.; for several years thereafter she was at home with her babies. She says "when they were old enough for me to leave them, I again began Mutual work." For many years she served as president of the First Ward Mutual in Salt Lake City, and later she was president in the Emerson Ward. Then came the period of her service on the Granite Stake Relief Society Board, followed by a call to the presidency of that Board. She was serving in the capacity of first counselor to President Leonora T. Harrington when she was placed on the General Board of the Relief Society and the Executive Committee in the position of second counselor to President Clarissa S. Williams. Sister Robison has also served on the Granite Stake Board of Genealogy, doing active work with Richard Summerhays.
During the war her very efficient service was generally appreciated, particularly by the Red Cross, for whom she did conspicuous work. Her special work at that time was in surgical dressings. She took training and later was sent out by the Red Cross as an instructor. She presided in the gauze room at the Gardo House. True to her nature, she cannot think of these wartime experiences without connecting it with the friendships that resulted from the work. Many a thought she devotes to the "fine women who gave their service to the Red Cross during that period of storm and stress."
Temple work is dear to her heart. She has said that there are no moments of her life when the spiritual seems to dominate so completely and push from her all that is earthly as when she is in the Temple doing the work of that Sacred House. She particularly appreciates her good fortune in being able to attend the dedicatory services of the Mesa Temple in Arizona. During that memorable week President Grant gave her an invitation to be present at every session?a courtesy which she deeply appreciates.
In positions of leadership Sister Robison is modest and unassuming. On April 2, 1921, when her name was announced as counselor to President Clarissa S. Williams, she turned to Leonora T. Harrington, her stake president, and said, "I didn't know there was another woman by that name in the Church." Much to her astonishment, Mrs. Harrington answered, "Why, that's you." From the moment of her entrance on the General Board she has been energetically interested in Relief Society problems. During convention and conference periods she has visited more stakes than her real quota. No personal interest has ever stood in the way of her answering the call of the organization. It is superfluous to say that she is industrious. Her record of achievement bears eloquent testimony to this fact. She has spent many hours in the office when all others were gone. Besides her regular work as counselor, she has acted as chairman of a number of important committees. At her suggestion and under her supervision, a Church-wide campaign for home beautification was launched, resulting in unforeseen and extraordinary interest throughout the stakes of the Church. At present she is a member of the Travelers' Aid Society, having attended two national conventions of this organization. This year her name is published as one of the directors of the Utah Tuberculosis Association. Her interest in social welfare problems has taken her to two conferences for social workers, one held at Denver, Colorado, and the other at Toronto, Canada. She is an active member of the State Conference of Social Work and of other organizations interested in community welfare.
Her kindly solicitude for all and her art of greeting each with endearing terms, coupled with her sympathy and patience, have proved invaluable assets in her work in the burial clothes department. This branch of the work of the Relief Society has been a notable success under her management. The bereaved and sorrowing, whenever they have entered her office, have found a haven of peace during those anxious hours when they are performing the last tender service for loved ones.
On October 7, 1928, President Grant presented her name at the Semi-annual Conference for General President of the National Woman's Relief Society of the Church?a position that she will doubtless fill with the same enthusiasm, energy, and faith that she has put into all other positions to which she has been called.
Sister Robison is interested in the progress of women the world over. Consequently, she has a vision of the great work to be done and the courage to do her part. She is full of faith and has an understanding heart. She comes to this notable position well qualified to fill it with dignity and honor. Our thoughts of her lead us to substitute the feminine for the masculine and repeat the words of the third paragraph of the first psalm in expressing our faith in our new President, Louise Yates Robison. "And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water; that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; and his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper."
New Year Visions By Alice Morrill
The New Year curtain draws aside And opens vistas, bright with cheer. My step is free, my heart is glad To enter on the fresh New Year.
I see, adown her wondrous aisles, Sweet pleasures I have known before, And joyous duties, and the glint Of home fires through the open door.
Upon her sun-lit paths I see The feet of children, and I hear Their voices like the sound of bells On zephyr breezes, ringing clear.
Now in the way that spreads beyond I see stern duty?yet how kind! Her sway, throughout the passing years, Brings calm of soul and peace of mind.
I see, there, Labor of the Hands Whose fruits shall bring forth manifold Of all the gifts our Mother Earth Hath safely locked within her hold.
I see Adherence to the Word Of God, eternally the same As Heaven's sun and stars, and Truth Sit ever in their place?unchanged.
I see the books of nature spread Where all may feast most bounteously And view her paintings, everywhere, Hung for the Eye of Soul to see.
The New Year curtain draws aside, Disclosing life's proud heritage Of joy and duty, work and hope, And wealth of Nature's equipage.
COUNSELOR AMY BROWN LYMAN
Counselor Amy Brown Lyman By Mary Connelly Kimball
Amy Brown Lyman, honored and loved, in the full fruition of her splendid powers, comes to the Presidency of the Relief Society fully trained, informed, equipped to become at once effective in her new office as counselor to President Louise Y. Robison. She loves the Relief Society work and those engaged in it. She is frank and outspoken and her president will know just where she stands, and will find in her a valuable counselor, a considerate helper, a true supporter.
The virility of stock continues generation after generation. Mrs. Lyman evidences that sturdy, dependable, calm, judicious heritage that is hers from pioneer parents. Her grandfather was a graduate of the University of Berlin; her father, John Brown, was educated for the Baptist ministry. He was one of the original pioneers, and, with Orson Pratt, he has the distinction of being the first of the Pioneer Band to see the Salt Lake Valley. His scholarship made him outstanding. For many years he was mayor of Pleasant Grove and bishop of the ward. Her mother was a lover of books, sincere, charitable, and deeply religious. The home was one of love, peace, and good will. The children were taught to do right in such a way that it seemed to them the natural thing to do.
On February 7, 1872, Amy came to gladden her parents' home at Pleasant Grove. There were ten children in the home; hence she knew the joy of growing up in a big family, with the discipline in unselfishness that comes from yielding to the wishes and welfare of others. A student from childhood, she went from the schools of Pleasant Grove to the Brigham Young University, graduating in the class of 1890. For four years thereafter she taught in the training school of her Alma Mater. Following this she taught in the public schools of Salt Lake City for two years. On September 9, 1896, she was married to Dr. Richard R. Lyman, now of the Council of the Twelve. The union has been a most happy one. Two children have brought joy to their home, Wendell and Margaret. Both have graduated from the University of Utah with degrees. Wendell has been very successful in business, and Margaret has spent years in studying the cello at home, in New York and in Paris. She is now the wife of Alexander Schreiner, one of America's leading organists and a brilliant pianist.
Amy began her church work at the age of eleven as secretary of a ward Primary. She has acted in all the offices of a ward Y. L. M. I. A. and as teacher in Sunday School. It is in the Relief Society, however, that her most outstanding public work has been done. On October 5, 1909, she was called to the General Board. On May 5, 1911, she became assistant secretary and in August, 1913, she became General Secretary. She has served as assistant manager of the Magazine since its establishment. In addition to her valuable and interesting "Notes From the Field" she has prepared guide lessons for the use of the society.
Very few have the secretarial ability that Mrs. Lyman has. She is careful, accurate, painstaking. She has the knack of writing the most important proceedings and the best things said at a meeting. Mrs. Lyman leaves the minute files complete from the year of the organization of the Relief Society in 1842 up to the present time. She has assembled historical data covering the period between the Nauvoo meetings and the organization of the General Board in 1892. The minutes are arranged with topical marginal headings and are carefully indexed and cross indexed so that information is available at a moment's notice. She also leaves a complete file of bound volumes of stake reports from the year 1913 to the present, which is a useful and handy reference of historical, statistical and financial data of the stakes and wards of the Church.
Mrs. Lyman also arranged a comprehensive book for use in the wards known as the "Ward Record Book." This book is arranged to record the activities of the ward, which in the Relief Society are varied including roll, minutes, historical notes, statistical data, financial transactions, and yearly summarized reports. It also contains printed instructions to officers. As soon as this book was adopted it automatically systematized and standardized all the mechanical workings of the ward organizations and it stands as a permanent file for ready reference in the wards. A similar book for stake records was also prepared for the stakes by Mrs. Lyman.
Welfare work has been of especial interest to her and under the direction of President Joseph F. Smith and the General Board she had the privilege of introducing so called "case work" into the Relief Society. For years she has studied methods and systems of family relief, taking special courses in Sociology and Psychology, in addition to the Red Cross Home Service Course and a course in field work under the direction of the Denver City and County Charity office. Whenever in her travels an opportunity has presented itself she has looked into relief work. In social service work she is an outstanding authority in the state. She knows and associates intimately with the great leaders of the land in her line of work, and knows the literature on the subject as well as the workers and the authors. She has attended a number of sessions of the National Conference of Social Work. She has become an outstanding figure in the National Council of Women. Its leading women admire her and seek her counsel. She has attended a number of sessions and has served as Recording Secretary of this organization and is now Auditor. By appointment of the President of the Council, she was a United States delegate to the Quinquennial meeting of the International Council in 1925. She was a member of the State Legislature (House of Representatives) in 1923, serving as chairman of Public Health. She was Vice-Chairman of the State Welfare Commission as long as it existed. She has served as Vice-Chairman of the Community Clinic and on the Advisory Staff of the County Hospital; and is at present President of the Utah State Conference of Social Workers.
Mrs. Lyman was recently elected to membership in Pi Gamma Mu, the National Honorary Social Science Society of America. Whatever line of work she undertakes she masters. When she was made secretary of the Relief Society she began at once a study of bookkeeping, office methods, and the work of secretaries, with the result that she has made for the Relief Society a secretary's office that would do credit to any business institution. Relief Society workers and others who have to do with family and other social problems are feeling the influence of her studies and activities. There are people in every stake and ward who are indebted to Mrs. Lyman for helping them to handle social problems wisely and well. She will not live long enough for the people generally to comprehend the value of the far-reaching social service work she has taken even to the remotest portions of the Church.
Perhaps her distinctive characteristics are her passion for work, the amount of it she can do, her interest in books and studies, and her devotion to the Church itself. But she has been best and most devoted as a mother and home maker. Whoever enters her door senses that cleanliness, order, hospitality, and good will that make the home a haven of rest and happiness to all who dwell there. For any and all successes which have come to her husband he proudly gives more than half the credit to his wife. She has been an unfailing support. In his university work, his practice of engineering and in his Church work, all requiring long and frequent absences from home, she has given him every assistance. Not a word of complaint on this account has she ever spoken. No man ever had a more devoted or efficient helpmeet.
Mrs. Lyman is a beautiful, queenly woman of a striking personality. Vivacious, happy, intensely interested in things and people, she is enjoyed wherever she goes. While she has very decided opinions and voices them clearly she is very tolerant of those who differ with her.
Mrs. Lyman leaves the office of General Secretary with the plaudits of her co-workers, "well done" and with the consciousness that she has put into her work the best that she could give. She has been an indefatigable worker and has left nothing undone that would make the work effective and up-to-date. She has been an inspiration to and has encouraged many young women to take up Relief Society work. To her new position she brings a rich experience garnered through years of intelligent service. She knows the Relief Society work in all its phases and in all its departments. She has vision and an open mind, so while she will ever desire to keep all the good of the past, she will ever wish to add the best that the intelligence of the years brings and develops.
Quotations from Edmund Burke
Flattery corrupts both the receiver and giver; and adulation is not of more service to the people than to kings.
People will not look forward to posterity, who never look backward to their ancestors.
Government is a contrivance of human wisdom to provide for human wants. Men have a right that these wants should be provided for by this wisdom.
Kings will be tyrants from policy, when subjects are rebels from principle.
Man is by his constitution a religious animal.
I Wonder By J. B. Green
I wonder when my soul is weighed Against the measure given I wonder will the verdict be? "Well done, rest thou in heaven."
Or will He read my record o'er With sorrow in His face And say, "Thou art a stranger here For you there is no place."
God grant my lessons I may learn Though trials my teacher be, So well, thou'lt be pleased to say "Rest thou thy soul with Me."
Resignation By Henry Van Dyke
With eager heart and will on fire, I fought to win my great desire. "Peace shall be mine," I said; but life Grew bitter in the endless strife.
My soul was weary, and my pride Was wounded deep: to Heaven I cried, "God grant me peace or I must die;" The dumb stars glittered no reply.
Broken at last, I bowed my head, Forgetting all myself, and said, "Whatever comes, His will be done;" And in that moment peace was won.
COUNSELOR JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD
Counselor Julia Alleman Child By Julia A. F. Lund
The directing of ambition into spiritual channels, the linking of knowledge with the common and necessary duties of life?these traits constitute, perhaps, the outstanding characteristics of Julia Alleman Child. In reviewing the events of her life, one feels that she has demonstrated that some of this generation have not forgotten the deeper lessons taught by their pioneer mothers.
Julia was born in Springville, September 8, 1873, the daughter of Benjamin and Sariah Jane Starr Alleman. This fine couple, both descendants of Revolutionary ancestry, were among Utah's pioneers of 1850 and 1852, who played a major part in laying the foundation of this state. They suffered the hardships, but lived to see some of the fruits of their labors. Their spirit is preserved in their daughter.
Women of our day do not have to face the tasks their mothers faced, but they have tasks of their own, which they cannot fail to perform, while holding work not as a curse, but as a blessing. In the greatness of her work, Julia has believed sincerely. She has felt the thrill of service in her veins, and has been confident that to her was given the privilege of playing a part in the community in which she lived. This conviction has led her always to accept each opportunity to do the work that has been given her.
Her girlhood was spent in Springville, where she attended the public schools; later she spent three years at the Brigham Young University in Provo, under Dr. Karl G. Maeser. She took special courses also at the University of Utah. Those who were fortunate enough to be numbered among her schoolmates recall her popularity and leadership, which were evident at a very early period. With Julia, knowledge was the instrument of successful action; hers was a career "perpetual in its triumph," physical, mental, spiritual; and the breadth of her young life was secured by a diversity of interests and a wide range of activities. She seems to have acted upon the advice of Luther Gulick, "to see that all the hours of the day are so full of interesting and healthful occupations that there is no chance for worry to stick its nose in." Her school life was animated by a great and abiding purpose, which found full expression in the profession which she followed for so many years.
It is said that right living is the finest of the fine arts, and good teaching comes next because it is the most timely and most efficient means to right living. Other arts reflect life?teaching develops it. How successful Julia was in this field, and how many young lives she directed in right paths, is suggested by the fact that she taught in the Springville public schools for fourteen years, where she was generally acknowledged to be one of the best teachers in the county at that time. She was principal of two Primary Buildings, and Primary Supervisor. Her efforts were uniformly directed toward making "education a preparation for complete living." Throughout life her educational contacts have been very wide, both in the Church and in civic activities.
At the age of fifteen Julia was secretary of the Springville Sunday School; later she acted as a teacher. The Primary Association, also the Religion Class, profited by her efficient services. She was counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A., in the Second Ward in Springville, and later was in the Presidency of the Le Grande Ward Mutual in Liberty stake. In August, 1912, Julia was chosen an aid to President Emily H. Higgs of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Liberty stake, and in 1917 was made a counselor to Mrs. Joseph A. Folsom, president of the Liberty stake Y. L. M. I. A. In May of the same year she became the chairman of the Red Cross work in the stake for the Mutual, discharging the duties of this important position until the end of the war.
In the reorganization of the presidency and General Board of the Relief Society in April, 1921, Julia was called to the General Board, and served during the entire presidency of President Clarissa S. Williams. It is constantly borne out that the human spirit has its greatest development when it is exercising leadership. How many-sided this great quality is in Mrs. Child may be understood, when, in addition to her Church work and other educational contacts, some of her civic activities are suggested. She has been Vice-Regent and member of the Daughters of the Revolution, a member of the Board of the Utah Public Health Association, Director and Vice President of Salt Lake City Congress of Parent Teachers, and member of the Board of Directors of the Civic Center.
Mrs. Child's public life has been the subject of this sketch up to this point, and splendid as is this extensive public service to her fellowmen, to those who know her best, there is a side which challenges even greater admiration, and that is her beautiful home life. She was reared in a real Latter-day Saint household, which was charged with the spirit of physical, mental, and spiritual vitality. In that home, generous hospitality was coupled with the thought that education is primarily a means to make men better, and that it is useless to fill them with knowledge or stir them to action unless it is all governed by the spirit that gives a higher conception to life. These ideals were carried to fruition in Mrs. Child's own home.
On June 3, 1908, she was married to George N. Child, a worthy companion for a noble wife. He is, at present, the honored Superintendent of the Salt Lake City Schools. She is the mother of one daughter and two sons. These have found in their mother all that the sacred name implies; but the tender and wonderful manner in which she has filled the place to her husband's five other children, is one of her greatest achievements. In this, as in all her fields of labor, she has used "knowledge as the instrument of successful action," sympathy as the ability and disposition to apply the Golden Rule, humility as the allegiance to what is spiritually above us, love as the fulfilling of the law, "the greatest thing in the world."
During the years she has been on the General Board she has traveled extensively in the work, and has visited a great many of the stakes, coming in close contact with the sisters of the organization. This experience, coupled with her breadth of vision and wide educational outlook, has qualified her to be a safe and able counselor to the General President.
Awakening By Mary Hale Woolsey
One little dream I had (Now it is ended.)? A tiny dream persisting through the years; Away within my heart's dim, deepest cloister, A secret refuge from my pain and tears.
One little dream, sought out in wee small hours When life grew dreary.?Oh, I thought that I Could keep it always small and unimportant, So that I need not grieve if it should die.
But oh, dear heart!?How sorely has betrayed me My little dream I thought so still and sweet! For now I know how all the while 'twas building A thousand hopes to crumble at my feet!
GENERAL SECRETARY JULIA A. FARNSWORTH LUND
Julia A. Farnsworth Lund GENERAL SECRETARY AND TREASURER OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY By May Booth Talmage
The advantage of receiving as a goodly heritage the finest characteristics of a long line of worthy ancestors is clearly emphasized in Julia A. Farnsworth Lund. One may say that in the truest sense she was well-born?through the lineage of the Farnsworths and the Murdocks. In addition to the advantages of these splendid qualities received through inheritance, she has had superior home environment and exceptional educational opportunities, thus combining the three fundamentals that mean so much in the development of outstanding men and women. A daughter
of Philo T. And Julia P. Murdock Farnsworth, Julia was born in Beaver City, Utah, on December 2, 1874. Gifted and beautiful from childhood, she exhibited traits of leadership which have increased with the opportunities she so eagerly seized, and the responsibilities she so willingly assumed. In watching Julia one is constantly reminded of her no. Less gifted mother, who served with marked efficiency on the Relief Society General Board for several years, and whose attractive and well ordered home radiated a spirit of true hospitality and excellent management. Mrs. Lund's scholastic training was obtained from the elementary schools, the Beaver Stake Academy for one year, the Brigham Young Academy for three years, and the University of Utah, from which last-named institution she received the degree of Bachelor of Arts. When but nineteen years of age she attended the World's Congress of Women, held in Chicago in the spring of 1893; and as a representative of the young women of Utah she delivered an address at that notable gathering. In 1896 she served as Secretary of the Republican Central Committee, and, during subsequent years, has taken an active interest in political affairs. In club work also Mrs. Lund has been given honor and responsibility. When the General Federation of Women's Clubs met in Denver, in the spring of 1898, she was. Made State Chairman of Correspondence for Utah. In 1899 she went to Philadelphia as a representative of the Utah State Society of the Daughters of the Revolution, of which great organization she is a charter member. The active loyalty of Mrs. Lund toward her Alma Mater is 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE shown in her willing and efficient service as Vice President 01 the Alumni Association of the University of Utah in 1921-2, and also as a member of the Union Building Committee at the present time. As an instructor in Theology and English at the Latter-day Saints College, her ability combined with her pleasing' personality became a subject of favorable comment, and was demonstrated by the over-crowded classes of students who elected to take instruction from her. In 1921, Julia A. Farnsworth Lund was appointed a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, and she served in that capacity during the administration of Sister Clarissa S. Williams. The wisdom of this choice has been clearly demonstrated by the efficient service rendered by Sister Lund in the varied responsibilities of her calling. In the spring of 1925 she was appointed a member of the Salt Lake County Red Cross Board?a position she still holds. When Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde accepted the position of a U. S. Customs officer in Honolulu, the president of the local Civic Center Board asked for a member of the General Board of the Relief Society to take Mrs. Hyde's place on the Civic Center Board. Mrs. Lund was appointed to fill that vacancy in May 1925. The important position of Educational Director of the Civic Center was accepted by Mrs. Lund and was retained by her until she was called to her present office as General Secretary of the Relief Society. Primarily to gain greater efficiency for her work at the Civic Center, Julia took a course at the University of California for special training in Adult Education. This college work and the experience gained at the Civic Center will doubtless prove an invaluable asset for the new position now occupied by Mrs. Lund. Thus far we have written chiefly of the public activities of our new Secretary, but many and varied as these are, one who has been in a position to know Mrs. Lund in her home-life somewhat better than has the writer gives interesting side-lights that indicate even greater attributes than are shown by this brilliant public record. When, on September 20th, 1900, Julia Farnsworth was married for time and eternity to Henry C. Lund, she builded better than she knew. To her own splendid heritage she added the inestimable worth of another quite as strong, as all who knew President Anthon H. Lund, of the First Presidency of the Church, and President Canute Petersen of the Sanpete Stake, can testify. Seven children were born to Brother and Sister Henry C. Lund, and six of these are living. We quote a few of the well-deserved tributes paid by the informant before mentioned: "Julia is a mother to her children in the truest sense. She JULIA A. F, LUND a not only cares for their physical welfare by providing them with a well-balanced diet, making their clothing attractive by the work of her own hands, and carefully guarding their health, but she promotes a beautiful home-spirit and is commendably ambitious for their educational and spiritual well-being. With all her public duties she manages never to neglect her children. She seems to understand every need and be equal to every demand. She has instilled in the hearts of her children a very high regard and perfect respect for their father. She had very close and pleasant relationships with her husband's family, and was looked upon more as a daughter in fact than as one who had married into the family. To her sisters also she is a source of inspiration, and they often seek her for counsel or advice. In fact," the speaker concluded, "I can think of nothing that a mother should be that Julia is not; and my years of association with her have filled me with appreciation and admiration of her splendid life." When her husband died, on September 5, 1925, an added responsibility came into the life of Sister Lund; but she met her sorrow bravely and today faces life's problems with heroic courage. She feels that her children and her Church now claim her whole interest, and that home-making is the greatest profession for a woman on earth. In conning over and summing up the numerous and varied honors and responsibilities that have been crowded into the years of Sister Lund's earthly existence, one feels great assurance as to her sympathetic understanding of the problems that now confront her; and we are comforted in the thought that in her new and important position we shall find her an efficient and worthy successor to the honored and illustrious Secretaries who have preceded her. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF ' JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL Board LOUISE YATES President S. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - - - - First Counselor MRS JULIA Alleman Child- Second Counselor MRS, JULIA A. F. LUND - - -: General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Miss Alice Louise Reynolds es Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor. -: - -. ? Alice Louise Reynolds Gen Manager: - - - - -: - - Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager - a - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, signed Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, "Salt Lake City, Utah Vor, XVI | JANUARY, 1929 No. 1 EDITORIAL President Louise Yates Robison With the ushering in of the new year we present the new president, Louise 'Yates Robison, who, on October 7, 1928, was sustained in the General Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as seventh General President of the Relief Society. President Robison comes to this important office with a number of outstanding qualifications. Kindliness and good will towards others is with her both a science and an art. It is part of her natural equipment from both inheritance and cultivation. Since relief work is the phase on which chief emphasis is placed in the organization the inclination to help those who are in need of help must be a main part of the equipment of any president of a Relief Society. Two things a good executive must be able to do: she must have the vision to see what is necessary to be done; also she must have the executive ability to carry out the things she sees. Some people have the mental ability to map out work but lack the art of putting over the plan after it has been formulated. Others have the power to execute, but lack the vision to see or know what were good to be done. President Robison appears to combine the ability of both seeing and doing.
EDITORIAL
It is almost axiomatic that a real leader will call around her people well suited to perform the particular tasks to which they are assigned. President Robison is, therefore, to be congratulated on her choice of counselors and secretary. It is one of the high points of leadership to surround oneself with efficient help; and in her first official act?that of selecting an efficient executive committee?she has given evidence of this high order of leadership.
The new president was trained in a home in Scipio, where the possibilities for learning and refinement under pioneer conditions taxed in the highest degree those who lived in the community. All that could be achieved had to be wrought through hard work, with such help as our Father lends to those who diligently seek and serve him. In such an environment Mrs. Robison was reared. She has developed a high degree of spirituality which can be felt by those with whom she meets or labors. The deep joy she experiences in her Temple work is added evidence of her love for things spiritual. Through the experience of her lifetime she has learned to rely on the Lord; and where she places her reliance, she will lead others to place theirs. She believes in the ultimate triumph of good; and where her faith is, her works will follow.
In public address the new president is persuasive. Lighting up and transforming all her thoughts is a countenance of rare sweetness. Her charm and grace of manner, which are part of a really lovely personality, will shed a benediction on every stake that she may visit. She will be a most welcome visitor wherever it is her good pleasure to go; for one of her gifts is the ability to touch and win the hearts of those with whom she comes in contact.
Counselor Amy Brown Lyman
In an editorial on Amy Brown Lyman, as General Secretary, we emphasized her familiarity with the work of the Relief Society. The information and experience she has gained as secretary is now available for her new office, that of counselor to President Louise Y. Robison. Added to her knowledge and experience are a group of engaging and trustworthy qualities of mind and heart that have made Mrs. Lyman successful in the numerous positions that she has filled during her industrious life. Coupled with her mental qualities are spiritual qualities developed through years of service. We would emphasize that from early childhood she has been nurtured in the spirit of her religion. The home from which she came cherished above all else the priceless gift of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Her father's and her mother's names are synonyms of sacrifice for the establishment of the work and the rearing of their children, with a love for spiritual values. Her life has been characterized by devotion to the gospel. She has made sacrifices to establish institutions that are of great value. Her devotion as a teacher in the Brigham Young University, like her work in the Relief Society at the present time, has been inspired in the main by a desire to magnify the gospel work in the earth. Throughout her life her intellectual gifts have been coupled with spiritual qualities.
Counselor Julia Alleman Child
Julia Alleman Child is a descendant of the early makers of Latter-day Saint history. The witnesses of the Book of Mormon must always stand out conspicuously among those who made the early history of the Church. Mrs. Child's great grandmother, whom she remembers, was a sister of Martin Harris. The Harris family has produced a number of outstanding men and women, and among these is Julia Alleman Child. Many people recognize in her character a delightful balance, an all-roundedness, a clear headedness that is both useful and admirable; just the type of person one might be led to select for a counselor. She has good judgment and a heart as well as a mind that penetrates into human affairs so that people naturally draw near her because she understands.
Mrs. Child has devoted much of her life to education. Her husband is superintendent of the Salt Lake City schools, so that matters of an educational nature are often referred to her. We are sure that many of our readers will recall that on a number of occasions Sister Child has made outstanding addresses before the conference on educational subjects. Her addresses are noted for the splendid material that she assembles, and the clear, effective way in which she puts over that material.
There is no substitute in life's work for common sense or loyalty. Sister Child possesses both these characteristics in large measure. She is loyal to her Church, loyal to the Relief Society, and will be loyal to President Louise Y. Robison, to whom she has been called to act as second counselor.
There is another attribute necessary for success in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and that is faith in the divinity of the latter-day work, faith in God and in Jesus Christ as the Savior of the world and the Redeemer of mankind. Sister Child had training in her adolescent years under that great master teacher, Karl G. Maeser, who daily emphasized the spiritual values of life above all others. She has shown in her conduct throughout her life that she did not come into contact with the great master without avail.
She is a woman of unusual charm. Her dark eyes beam with intelligence and her countenance lights up as thoughts and emotions play upon her face. She is kind and sympathetic in her attitude towards all with whom she comes in contact. She is one whose spirit would tend to bring order out of chaos, harmony out of discord, good will out of ill will, and peace where the cry has gone forth that there is no peace.
General Secretary and Treasurer Julia A. F. Lund
Julia A. F. Lund is a member of a family that is outstanding in education and business. Her brother and sisters are recognized with her for their intellectual gifts. Mrs. Lund has devoted herself to education. She married Henry C. Lund, son of President Anthon H. Lund, who was a lawyer by profession. Mrs. Lund obtained her education in the Brigham Young Academy, the University of Utah, from which she took her degree and from institutions outside of the state, such as the University of California. Since her husband's death she has spent most of her time as director of educational work at the Salt Lake Civic Center, a position which gave her experience in administration.
Mrs. Lund has a keen mind and is everywhere recognized as a well informed woman. This information has been made manifest through her writings, through her teaching and through her public addresses. To her accumulation of knowledge she adds that indescribable something which may be personality and may be a gift of interpreting, enhancing, and transforming what she says. She is brilliant, naturally gifted as a speaker, and perhaps has the best right to be styled an orator of any member of the Board. She will bring to her new office, which is a very exacting office, information, brilliance, administrative experience and a fascinating personal address.
Sister Lund has a spiritual nature and her spirituality is contagious. She has faith in the religion she has espoused, and in the work of the great Relief Society, with whose fortune she has allied herself. She has an abiding faith in the triumph of the good, the true, and the beautiful. That which is unlovely, ordinary, or in any sense below a high standard, never appeals to her. You can arouse her nature at any time to the very depths by lending defense to anything wrong or unlovely. She has hitched her wagon to the stars, and there she has fixed her gaze; that which is low or groveling is no part of her. Of refined tastes and delicate emotions, she is a woman of stable character.
In thinking of her we are reminded of an artist's definition of an artist: "An artist is what he paints, plus." The plus is that which is of most importance, for it is the thing which determines whether the picture is bad, mediocre, or a work of art of the first magnitude. It is the plus that makes of the picture a work of art. It is the plus which raises everything Mrs. Lund speaks about or works at, from the level of the ordinary into a higher realm.
President Robison is to be congratulated on her choice of Mrs. Lund as secretary for she will grace this position as she has graced all the positions that she has filled during her active public life.
The Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest
Fifty poems were submitted for the 1928 Poem Contest. The winners in the contest are Mrs. Alice M. Walker and Miss Josephine Spencer. Honorable mention will be given to the poems of Mrs. Maud Chegwidden, Mrs. Sarah Ahlstrom Nelson, and Mrs. J. Parton. We are gratified over two matters relating to the 1928 contest; first, that Miss Josephine Spencer, whose writings have been published by practically every periodical in the state over a rather extended period of time, should receive one of the prizes. This poem was submitted only a few days before her death. Secondly, we are gratified in the range of territory represented by the successful contestants. Mrs. Walker lives in Redmesa, Colorado. Miss Spencer's home at the time of her death was in California. Mrs. Chegwidden lives in Murray, Utah. Mrs. Nelson lives in Rexburg, Idaho, and Mrs. J. Parton's home is in Penshurst, New South Wales, Australia.
The judges of the 1928 contest were Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman of the General Board, Dr. George E. Fellows of the faculty of the University of Utah, and Mrs. Christen Jensen of the faculty of the Brigham Young University. The magazine congratulates the winners in the contest and trusts that they may feel encouraged to go on with their work.
Editor's Note
We are publishing in this issue of the magazine a one-act play entitled "The Miracle"?By Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, a member of the General Board. We know that at this season of the year a good many presidents are looking about for material for their seventeenth of March programs. We trust that the organizations will find this play appropriate and useful. We are not urging that it be made use of, each society is at perfect liberty to use any material that it sees fit to use, but in case the officers are searching for something this may meet their need.
A Song for New Year's By Shirley Rei Gudmundsen
'Tis Old Year's Night. The room is dim. The faint moving shadow on the little table Of polished walnut Far from the sharp white flames That dance over red embers in the fireplace.
These, and the lighted globe on the fir tree In the corner, Cast a soft glow, that catches All the sparkle of the tinsel, All the glitter of the little tin track On which the toy train Has circled noisily, dutifully, for a week.
Against a chair leg The round-eyed doll reclines As though in musing, sweetly.
And the air is filled With filmy haze of incense, Sandalwood, From the Joss on the mantel. His sleepy face is wreathed in smoke As though it might be a token Of the peace, with all existing things That wrap about his soul.
'Tis New Year's Morn. A little space of minutes makes it so. And now The room is filled with light, efficiently, And all its corners are illuminated.
The table and the tree have lost their quiet magic Of half darkness, And the hearth is but a fireplace For warming.
The door is opened; On the frost night is borne Medleys of the noise That seek to make a mark on fleeting time.
The cold air rushes in, Dispels the smoke of incense, Makes as though to bring New roses to the doll's cheeks, New thoughts for those round eyes to startle at.
My Neighbor Alice M. Walker Poem awarded first prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest
Life was so full of petty care I had no time to really live, No happiness had I to share, No song to sing, no joy to give.
Each day passed by on weary wings, Each night brought only brief surcease, I could not sense the greater things, Could only work, and wait?for peace.
And then you came, and lo, it seemed That through your eyes I learned to see Life, beauty, faith, of which I'd dreamed But never hoped could come to me.
I learned the joy of daily tasks, And found the calm of cloudy days, I came to know that Duty masks The entrance to Life's sweetest ways.
You went away, but still I hold The power you gave, to smile and sing, To tinge the darkest clouds with gold, And see God's hand in everything.
Etched Josephine Spencer Poem awarded second prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest
The horizon a hazy line; Foreground, a patch of crusted brine; Buff beach, brown shore, a waveless sea? With noon sun burning all the three.
South edge of serrate, Vandyke peaks; Pale island headlands laid in streaks Against the west; a northern shore Set dark against the lake's blue floor.
Dun prairies laid along the east With dingy clumps of sage-brush creased; And still, white ponds of alkali; A splash of green, a cool stream rolled Through wheatfields beaded thick with gold;? And then a city, lifting high, Thin, pointed spires against the sky.
The Miracle By Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine A Play In One Act, Two Scenes
Cast of Characters: Mrs. Driggs, a widow old enough to have a son returning from a mission. Her Children: Nancy, seventeen years old, sweet and dependable. Ruth, fifteen years old, high spirited but not impertinent. Allen, nine years old; Bobby, six years old?just boys.
SCENE I.
Scene: (A poorly furnished room. Mrs. Driggs is discovered sewing on a bright colored house dress. Patterns and material and a sewing machine show that making housedresses is her business. Allen and Bobby are playing on the floor. Ruth appears in the doorway of the kitchen adjoining, with a potato in one hand and a vegetable brush in the other. There is a pause after the curtain rises, long enough for the audience to get the atmosphere of the scene.)
Ruth: (speaking gently) Allen, run out and get me some wood for the fire. (Exeunt boys.)
Mrs. Driggs: Be sure to wash the potatoes clean, Ruthie.
Ruth: (Calling from the kitchen where she can be seen at work) Oh, sugar! Mother, consider the poor dumb animals, how they starve. I'd feel like a thief if I met a pig.
Mrs. Driggs: There's real food value in the peelings. Don't you remember, dear, when the doctor had me drink soup made from them?
Ruth: (Entering) Now mother, I know exactly what you are going to say; a French family could live out of an American family's garbage can. But now, I'm asking you confidentially, who wants to live out of a garbage can?
Mrs. Driggs: It's only said to illustrate their economy, dear.
Ruth: Mother, you say that poverty is a blessing in disguise. It may be, but I don't like the disguise. You bet when Ned comes home, we'll have something to eat besides skim milk and potatoes.
Mrs. Driggs: Returned missionaries sometimes have a hard time getting work. Ned hasn't even a trade.
Ruth: Yes, that's the worst of it, and no money to put him through college as father had intended. Poor Neddy, it'll be pretty hard for him to come home and find father gone?and us in this way?(with an expressive gesture around the scantily furnished room).
Mrs. Driggs: Yes, dear, but he is brave, and he will do all he can to take father's place. (She struggles to control her emotions.) What is troubling me lately is that the mortgage on the home is so long past due?I haven't been able to pay even the interest for a long time; and Mr. Gray tells me that he has a customer for the place who wants to take possession immediately. That means we may have to move out before Neddy comes home. The house where he was born! (wiping her eyes. Then with an effort to regain her cheerfulness.) If we can just hold out a little longer, I know things will be all right.
Ruth: Mother, you darling. All your clouds are lined with gold and precious stones. The trouble is, they are such heavenly things we can't sell them for roast beef and ice cream.
Mrs. Driggs: There are many things worse than poverty, dearie.
Ruth: Well, there may be, but I haven't happened to meet them yet.
Mrs. Driggs: Why, living as we have, we have been able to keep Ned on his mission, even after father died. It's been worth it, hasn't it?
Ruth: Oh sure! But life's awfully unfair. Some people have everything.
Mrs. Driggs: Indeed, who for instance?
Ruth: Oh, everybody! I have less than any girl I know?except Nancy. Millie Barnes has everything.
Mrs. Driggs: Yes, I've heard you say she even has a bad temper.
Ruth: I'll say she has!
Mrs. Driggs: Would you like to change places with her?
Ruth: Sugar! I should say not.
Mrs. Driggs: Why do you say "sugar" all the time Ruthie?
Ruth: Well, you won't let me say "heck" or "gee" or "darn," and I have to say something, so I chose a nice, sweet, word.
Mrs. Driggs: How would you like to be Alice Randall? She has plenty of money, and is very sweet, too.
Ruth: I don't want to be motherless Alice Randall, nor hateful Millie Barnes. I don't want to be anyone but me, I, and myself, only I've got an over-developed wishbone. Mother, I wish so hard sometimes that I almost make things come true.
Mrs. Driggs: Of course, dear, if we have faith enough, all things are possible. But we must be sure that our wishes are righteous and progressive,?in harmony with the upward trend of perfect life. (Nancy enters. She takes off her hat and lays it on the table. She seems listless and depressed.)
Ruth: Well, what's the glad news, Nance. You look about as cheerful as a spell of conference weather.
Nancy: (She begins bravely but is weeping before she finishes speaking.) Mother, Mrs. Gray didn't pay me for the dresses. She says you are charging too much for them. She said she'd keep these because she had promised to; but she can get better ones at Denby's for less money, and she said she couldn't pay me today but that she'd send the money over in a few days.
Ruth: Why didn't you tell her to go to?SUGAR!
Nancy: I'm afraid I made a ninny of myself. I burst out crying right before her. Oh, I'm sorry, mother, but I couldn't help it. I was so tired and disappointed, and I knew we didn't have a thing in the house for supper, and no money. (She sits down by her mother and lays her head in Mrs. Driggs' lap. Mrs. Driggs pets her fondly.)
Ruth: That shows what kind of an animal she is! You bet the next time I see her I'll say "Scat!"
Mrs. Driggs: (Reprovingly) Ruth, dear.
Ruth: I wish she'd be hungry for awhile for the sake of keeping that great, fat son of hers on a mission. Now, mother, that's a good wish, a righteous and progressive wish, and I am going to keep on wishing it hard enough for it to come true.
Mrs. Driggs: Darlings, we mustn't be hard and bitter, that only reacts on ourselves. You know the only reason that people are wicked or unkind is because they don't understand. If we are more intelligent or generous than some people we should be very thankful and not be cross with them about it. Ruth, dear, call the boys. (Exit Ruth).
Nancy: Mother, Mrs. Gray was disagreeable. She said if people who borrowed money from them would only pay it back it would be better for everybody. It was mean of her when she knows that we put the mortgage on the home when father died to pay all those heavy expenses and to keep Ned on his mission; and she knows that we haven't had a thing to live on except what we have made by sewing.
Mrs. Driggs: Now, dearie, you mustn't be unjust. Men seldom tell their wives about those things, and Mr. Gray has been very lenient. It isn't his fault that we have been unfortunate.
Nancy: I can't understand it. You'd think that we deserve blessings. When you think that father died just three months after Ned had left for his mission and we had all that sorrow and expense and not a soul to help us?. Well, not many people would have done what we have done.
Mrs. Driggs: Oh yes, anyone would who loved the gospel as we do, and we've lived through it.
Nancy: (She takes her hat into an adjoining room, returning in a few moments, speaking before she enters the room.) Mother, have you sold your Cameo?
Mrs. Driggs: Yes, dear.
Nancy: (Entering, speaks sorrowfully) Oh, mother that's the last thing we had of grandma's and we all loved it so.
Mrs. Driggs: Yes, I know, dear, and it was to have been yours; but there's no help for it. Mrs. Anderson bought it, and she was very generous. The money she gave me for it will keep us until Ned comes home.
Nancy: (With a significant gesture around the room) I don't think there is another thing in the whole house that we could sell. Mother, we've literally fulfilled the command of the Savior to the young man to sell all he had and follow him, haven't we?
Mrs. Driggs: Yes, dear, and our reward is that our boy has been able to fill a good mission, and we all have good health and each other. And now, he is going to be released and will soon be home. (Ruth and the boys are heard in the kitchen putting wood in a box. As they enter the boys are quarreling.)
Bobby: (Crying) You give me back my top.
Allen: I haven't got your old top, cry baby.
Bobby: You have too, I saw you take it. (He strikes at Allen and catches hold of him. They struggle together.)
Ruth: (Taking hold of one boy with each hand, she gives them a little shake.) Hi, there, you little hyenas! Get on your own side of the cage!
Mrs. Driggs: (Speaking gently. The boys obey her instantly.) Bobby, hand mother the Bible. Allen you may select the hymn, and repeat our watchword for the day.
Allen: (Kissing his mother.) I'm sorry, Mother. I forgot. (Then he stands by her side and repeats) "Be ye perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect."
Altogether: (In concert) "Be ye perfect, even as your Father in heaven is perfect." (Allen goes to a side table or shelf and gets a church song book, which he opens and looks for a hymn.)
Mrs. Driggs: Now, Ruthie, please tell us what your reaction was on the thing that has tried you most today.
Ruth: (Crossing her fingers in view of the audience, but so that her mother can't see them.) I wish Mrs. Gray a long life of health, wealth and happiness. I'd willingly share my last potato peeling with her.
Mrs. Driggs: (Shakes her head at Ruth reprovingly) Have you found a hymn, Allen? (Allen has selected a hymn that they can all sing well together. When they finish singing, Mrs. Driggs opens the Bible and hands it to Nancy, who reads from the fourteenth chapter of St. John.)
Nancy: (Reading) "Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; or else believe me for the very works' sake. Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that believeth on me, the works that I do, shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my father; And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son, If ye ask anything in my name, I will do it. If ye love me keep my commandments.?" (While Nancy is reading these last words a sharp knock is heard on the door. Ruth answers the door and signs for a letter, which Allen snatches from her hands to his mother).
Nancy: (Laying down the Bible looks anxiously at the letter as her mother opens it.) A special delivery airmail letter! It isn't Ned's handwriting, I wonder what it can be? (They all crowd around their mother as she opens the letter with trembling fingers.)
Mrs. Driggs: (Reading aloud) "My dear Sister Driggs: It is with deepest sorrow that I am compelled to inform you that your son Edwin was seized with acute appendicitis this morning. We rushed him to the hospital?" (She grows faint and Nancy takes the letter from her.)
Nancy: (Continuing the reading) "We rushed him to the hospital. We were fortunate in being able to secure the services of the noted surgeon, Dr. Humbolt. They wouldn't let me stay in the operating room with Ned, so I called the Saints and missionaries together, and we've had a most wonderful prayer meeting for him. The doctors give us no hope whatever. But we all feel that he will recover! We are praying, with all our hearts, and are going to fast until he is better. We don't intend to give up. If, however, in the wisdom of God, your son is taken you can always be happy in the knowledge that he died as he lived, full of faith and courage, and that he has been called to a greater work. He is a very noble young man, and a son to be proud of. He is dearly beloved by all who know him. I am writing this letter thinking that it will be less of a shock to you than a cablegram. I shall return immediately to the hospital, and will keep you constantly informed. May God bless and comfort you, dear sister. Your friend and brother, Albert Brown, President.................. Mission." (During the reading Nancy's voice falters. She reads with great effort.) Mrs. Driggs sits motionless, her eyes slightly raised as if in prayer. The children are sobbing and trying to comfort their mother.)
Mrs. Driggs: (Her lips move several times before she can force them to utter the words) "Whatsoever ye ask in my name will I do; if ye ask anything in my name, I will do it." (During the last words of this speech the curtain slowly falls).
SCENE II
(Scene same as before, a month later. Nancy and Ruth are discovered sewing on house dresses. An air of cheerfulness pervades the place. A vase or two of flowers or blooming plants make the room look as if it had been dressed up for a festive occasion).
Ruth: (Excitedly) "Oh gee! I mean Sugar! I don't believe six o'clock will ever come. I simply can't wait, that's all."
Nancy: (Who feels deeply, but is more calm) Well, what are you going to do about it?
Ruth: I'm afraid I'll go up in smoke. Poof! Just like that! (with an expressive gesture) I was never so excited in my life. I don't see how mother has stood it this last month.
Nancy: (Tenderly) Oh, mother! She's equal to anything. But wasn't it wonderful the way the tide turned, and the good news came pouring in? A cable from Brother Brown telling of the miracle of Ned's being healed almost before we had finished reading his first letter. And all the letters that have come since. I like the dear old doctor's letter best of all.
Ruth: My, wasn't it just like a fairy tale, written in his quaint English? I certainly would have loved to be there, and have seen all those great surgeons stare when Ned told them he was well, and they didn't need to operate. Can't you feature their eyes popping right out of their heads?
Nancy: Yes, and they realized it was a miracle, too. Dr. Humbolt said Ned's face was transfigured, and shone like an angel's. And then, his taking Ned to his own home to watch him, fearing that it might be a peculiar case of hysteria.
Ruth: Yes, and then learning to love Neddy so much that he wants to adopt him.
Nancy: No, not adopt him, make him his heir.
Ruth: Well, anyhow, as the Greeks say, I bet it jarred them loose from a lot of their old prejudices.
Nancy: It proves what mother says is true, that Ned couldn't have been instantly healed without faith, and that with faith, if we have enough of it, the things we now call miracles would be everyday occurrences. She says the only surprising thing is that in our Church we use the gift so little.
Ruth: Well, it's been a lesson to me. Hereafter I shall move all the mountains out of my pathway.
Nancy: You mustn't joke about it, Ruth.
Ruth: I'm not joking. I was never more serious in my life. If I'd felt like this a month ago I might have told Mrs. Gray to move to yonder place, or, like the sycamore, be cast into the sea; but since her change of heart, I love her half to death. (Glancing out of the window.) Oh there she comes now, bringing mother home in their new Cad sedan, mother looking like the queen and lady that she is. (Both girls go to the window and look out, then run to the door. They wave and call greetings to Mrs. Gray. Mrs. Driggs enters with two large packages which Nancy takes from her and puts on the table, beginning to untie the string. Ruth seats her mother in a rocking chair and removes her hat and wrap which she tosses up and catches as a juggler would. Nancy opens bundles. Displaying a large cake and a pan of fried chicken. They all exclaim over the things).
Mrs. Driggs: Mrs. Gray was on her way here with the chicken for our dinner when I met her and she took me to do a few errands. As we were coming home we met Mattie McDonald coming over with the cake. They both said they thought we would be too excited to do much cooking today. I went into Risers to order some ice cream, and Henry insisted on sending a gallon as his treat. He says Ned can tuck away more ice cream than anyone he has ever seen.
Ruth: Ain't people grand! I've decided to be an optimist.
Mrs. Driggs: It would be hard for us to be anything else with all the lovely things everybody is doing for us.
Ruth: Oh, mother, I'm so excited I'm nigh to busting! I just have to stand on my head or dance a jig or something.
Mrs. Driggs: Let it be a jig then by all means, dear. (Ruth dances a few steps). You haven't noticed my pin yet, girls. (Both girls exclaim with surprise at the cameo Mrs. Driggs is wearing.)
Mrs. Anderson gave it to me this afternoon. She said she couldn't think of keeping it after hearing about Ned; and that I must consider the money a loan.
Ruth: (Catching Nancy around the waist and whirling her about the room.) Just think! He's coming tonight! Oh mother! Why that's almost now!
Nancy: (Pulling Ruth toward the kitchen) If you need exercise, Sis, come in the kitchen and peel potatoes.
Mrs. Driggs: There's nothing to do, girls, about the dinner, except to set the table, and we won't do that right now. I prepared the vegetables before I went out, and made a pan of biscuits ready to pop into the oven when we want them. Hand me that dress, Nancy. I am like Ruth. I must do something to work off my excitement.
Nancy: We are all infested with the same spirit. It's always that way, mother. You say we never do anything by halves.
Ruth: And this just adds to the evidence that you know your onions. When we go in for bad luck we go the limit, get our fill then quit, and give someone else a chance. Right now we are strong for prosperity. The tide has turned, our ships are coming in faster than we can unload them. And to think! It all began with Nancy's deluge that day at Mrs. Gray's.
Nancy: (Reproachfully) Oh Ruth!
Ruth: Mother, how's this for a "pome"? Weep and your neighbors help you, Laugh and they throw a stone: This gray old earth is tired of mirth; If you want help just give a groan.
Mrs. Driggs: Ruthie, you're irrepressible.
Ruth: (Kissing her mother) Irresistible, you mean, dear.
Nancy: Mother, don't you think Mrs. Gray is wonderful? The way she followed me home that day?and?and?everything?
Mrs. Driggs: I certainly do, Nancy. Anyone can be generous with money; but it requires true courage and nobility to admit a fault and show such kindness and generosity as she has done ever since.
Nancy: She's a peach.
Ruth: She's better than that. She's a pear. That is, she and her husband are together. He's a lamb. Oh sugar! I'm getting my metaphors or something mixed again. Anyhow, I love them both.
Mrs. Driggs: Did any word come while I was gone?
Ruth: Woman! Good luck has turned your head. How many special delivery, airmail letters and cablegrams do you expect in one day? We've had two letters and one wire already this morning.
Nancy: Mother, I don't know what is going to happen to us with all this good luck. You've laughed more in the last month than you have altogether since fa? for ages.
Ruth: And Nancy, just look at her, Mother! She's positively blooming. And the boys, too. Did you know that Allen had bet his teacher an ice cream cone that he'd be president of the United States? And Bob's wanting to bet me his top against a nickel that he'll be a millionaire. May they both live to collect it!
Nancy: Brother Brown said he'd keep us informed?
Ruth: (Interrupting her) Well, he certainly has done that little thing. And he's not the only one. I believe every man, woman, and child in the entire mission has written us at least one letter in the last month.
Nancy: And lots of outsiders, too. Mother, just what did Dr. Humbolt mean about making Ned his heir?
Ruth: Didn't he want to adopt him?
Mrs. Driggs: No dear, I don't think he wanted to do that, but he has already made him his heir.
Ruth: Oh well, what's a few adoptions more or less between millionaires?
Nancy: I remember just what he said, mother. I know the letter off by heart.
Ruth: So do I.
Mrs. Driggs: I think likely we all do, dear.
Nancy: (Quoting) "I love your son, Madam, because through him I have learned the power and goodness of God. My so unusual experience of seeing his miraculous healing?(she hesitates with emotion).
Ruth: (Continuing) "My own loved son was killed in the war, and his mother died of heart break. Since then I am alone. Ned tells me that all his life he has wanted to become a great surgeon. Madam, because I love your boy, and because for what he has done for me, will you permit me to do for him as for my own son? Whether you consent or not, already by legal deed I have given him half my money; the rest will be his when I die." Talk about fairy godmothers! They can't hold a candle to fairy godfathers!
Mrs. Driggs: (Controlling her emotion with an effort) It is all so wonderful I can scarcely believe it is true. But the part of his letter that I loved most of all was this: "I used to believe in miracles and hoped that I might sometime see one, but for ten years my faith is dead. Until now! I believe! I believe! Ned tells me that the family relation is eternal, and that again in the hereafter my loved ones I shall have. That brings me a most wonderful happiness! And you can know now, Madam, why it is that I love your boy so much. If all Mormons are like Ned and his friends this gospel that he is always telling me about must be good. I am with years and sorrow grown very old." (Her voice breaks. She and Nancy are weeping softly. Ruth brushes her hand hastily across her eyes.)
Ruth: (Shaking her fist at the clock) Oh Sapphira, you old donkey! You tell everything but the truth. Say, I'm going out to engage the brass band to play, "Hail, the Conquering Hero Comes."
Nancy: (Looking out the window gasps) Mother! (She runs to the door and looks eagerly down the street) Mother! Mother! There comes Ned now! Oh, mother, our Ned has come home! (Ruth rushes to the door and pushes Nancy aside. Mrs. Driggs attempts to rise but sinks back limply.)
Ruth: (Excitedly) It sure enough is! Hooray! He must have caught the Limited. I can see him as big as Hercules. He's got Allen on his back and Bob's in his arms, and the whole neighborhood fighting to carry his bags. Hi there, Ned! (She fairly tumbles out of the door.)
Nancy: (Putting her arm around her mother) Come, mother, darling, shan't we meet him? (There are sounds outside of the eager exclamation of a crowd; and a clear, manly voice calling:) Mother! Mother dear! I'm home!
Mrs. Driggs: Oh, God, I thank thee! Ned! My boy, my boy! (She rises and starts toward the door as the curtain falls.)
Pioneers
Hamlin Garland's Trilogy?A Son of the Middle Border, A Daughter of the Middle Border, Trail-Makers of the Middle Border By Lois V. Hales
Our most consistent contributor to the pioneer history of the Western frontier is Hamlin Garland. Critics say that if the 'great American novel' is ever written, it is probable that it will be Hamlin Garland who will write it. Mr. J. M. Chapple states that even though he might be in a city hotel with Mr. Garland he feels as if he were sitting in the home of a sturdy pioneer. Mr. Garland is particularly fitted to write of the pioneer days on the Western frontier. He was born in West Salem, Wisconsin, in 1860. He grew up in the woods of Wisconsin and the prairies of Iowa, and at one time took up "a claim" in Dakota. A great traveler, he is intimately acquainted with our country from Alaska to Central America. He was educated at the Cedar Valley Seminary and began to write in 1877. His pen is still busy. At the present time he is especially interested in the American Indian, whose origin he is endeavoring to fathom.
A Son of the Middle Border relates the story of Hamlin Garland's boyhood days on the Western frontier, and has become an American classic. It tells vividly of his early literary enthusiasms and his plunge into letters. Many critics say it is unquestionably his masterpiece.
A Daughter of the Middle Border carries his autobiography down to a later date, and narrates parallel with it the history of the charming girl who became his wife.
Trail-Makers of the Middle Border tells the story of Garland's father and mother and of the time in which they lived. When in the winter of '49 glowing tales of the golden sands, the flourishing prairies, the green pastures, and the lush waters of the West reached Richard Graham (in reality, Hamlin Garland's father) he left the bleak, drab farm in Vermont and took up a farm in southwestern Wisconsin. Richard soon fell in love with the pretty daughter of his Scotch neighbor. Years of home-building followed. During the summer months he labored at sowing and reaping. In the winter he joined the lumberjacks in their logging adventures on the waters of the turbulent Wisconsin River. Then came the Civil War. Richard joined the forces of the Union and "served it vaguely and General Grant very definitely." One of the finest things about Trail-Makers of the Middle Border is Garland's description of the Civil War and the part General Grant played in it. He thus describes Grant: "The silent, brownish-red bearded failure of forty, battling grimly to eminence against the hostility of the politicians. While high commissions were being recklessly given to civilians who knew nothing of arms or military discipline, the West Point graduate, the trained soldier of many campaigns, could not even win an audience to present his cause. * * Then overnight, almost, he became to the West 'Our General.' The President asked: 'Who is this man Grant, who fights battles and wins them?'"
But the best thing about Garland's trilogy is the picture he gives us of pioneering days in the North Middle West. His descriptions of the new, undeveloped country are poetic and true. His descriptions of the days of the two-wheeled ox-carts, crooked scythes, and high spinning wheels are classic. He has thoroughly appreciated the heroism of the pioneer. He has realized the beauty and the cruelty of the forests and prairies of the West. We get a fine picture of the drudgery, the dirt, the soul-grinding poverty of pioneer life. We realize, perhaps as never before, the physical energy required of the successful pioneer. "Up at break of day, eating their buckwheat cakes by candlelight, they were at work at dawn. A day's labor reached from dawn to dusk, and no man thought of shirking. What skill, what endurance, what courage the smallest of them displayed!"
The character of Hamlin Garland shines through his writings. We feel his sympathy, his honesty, his tolerance, his democracy. He, of all our writers, is most fitted to write the great American pioneer novel. His friendship for John Burroughs is a telling item in his life. When questioned as to his favorite poems he listed first Burrough's hopeful, tender poem "Waiting."
Serene I fold my hands and wait, Nor care for wind, nor tide, or sea; I rave no more 'gainst time or fate For, lo, my own shall come to me.
I stay my haste, I make delays, For what avails this eager pace? I stand amid the eternal ways, And what is mine shall know my face.
Asleep, awake, by night or day, The friends I seek are seeking me; No wind can drive my bark astray Nor change the tide of destiny.
The stars come nightly to the sky, The tidal wave comes to the sea; Nor time, nor space, nor deep, nor high, Can keep my own away from me.
Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I
Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in March)
PRACTICAL RELIGION AND TESTIMONY
Honesty: Honesty is honor in action. Honesty is righteousness on the wing. It is applied conscience. When Cervantes said, "Honesty is the best policy" he meant, it pays to be honest.
First, with Ourselves: Honesty with one's self means being true to one's conscience; and the highest trueness to one's conscience is to keep it in the light of the best obtainable light. A thoughtful conscience means an elevated conscience. One of Dr. Maeser's favorite admonitions to his students was: "Be your self, your better self," meaning, be honest with your higher impulses, your loftier thoughts, your nobler ambitions. None but the depraved lack the desire to be honest; and as we are loath to believe in utter depravity, it is difficult for us to think of any one who has lost all desire to be honest. Honest desires are the pearls of great price; in the ethical world, they are insurance investments against moral bankruptcy. The desire for self-honesty is the "Thirst after righteousness" spoken of in the beatitudes, Matthew 5:6. Desires for self honesty, thoughts of self honesty, determinations of self-honesty, act and react on each other, giving to and getting from each other the power that makes for the happiness of being honest. The joy of inner honesty is close kin to the strength of inner cleanliness; they stand together, desiring only that which is lawful.
Have you felt that hunger for goodness, Craving the Millennium here? A yearning to be full of kindness, With never a hope nor a fear?
Have you burned with a thirst to be honest, Just for Honesty's sake? Have you longed for a thrill that is present When give is better than take?
If you have, there is started within you The kingdom for action to build, Where the hunger and thirst will continue And your soul be constantly thrilled.
Even thrilled with joy of desiring To do and be all that you should; Filled full of the high power of loving The being and doing of good.
Thus filled with a thrill, you're fulfilling The promise He made on the mount; Living the life most worth living And counting for most you can count.
If it pays to be happy, then inner honesty pays. "He who deceives others is a knave, but he who deceives himself is a fool." ?Maeser.
Honesty in the Outer World: Honesty in the outer world means honesty with others, sociological honesty. Honesty in communication creates lasting confidence, without which all productive and exchange industries would go to the wall. Crooked characters, like counterfeit coins, owe their existence to the honesty there is in society. It is the existence of the true that makes the false of even apparent value. "Truth crushed to earth will rise again; the eternal years of God are hers; while error, wounded, writhes in pain, and dies amid her worshipers." Honesty makes friends; fraud finds only fellow conspirators. Honesty creates wealth; fraud filches it. Honesty merits power; fraud usurps it. Honesty with others gives us lasting values of confidence, friendship, and reciprocal helpfulness. These create opportunities for the making of an honest living, in which no financial obligations are assumed without expectation of meeting them, no promises made without determination to keep them. It is no disgrace to accept aid in hours of need, but it is dishonest to borrow or run bills with no intention of keeping faith with those who trust us. The thought of "looking the whole world in the face" as Longfellow's Village Blacksmith did, is almost thrilling to one who senses the paying value of honesty with others. For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?Matt. 16:26. Dishonesty with others is social soul sickness; discovered, dishonesty is death to the social soul.
Honesty in the Upper World?Honest with the Lord?Theological Honesty: "The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord, but the prayer of the upright is his delight"?Prov. 15:8. Who are upright? The honest?those who pray for the poor and pay their fast offerings; those who pray for the building up of Zion and pay their tithing; those who pray for the missionaries and contribute to their support; those who pray for forgiveness and forgive others; those who pray for health and keep the Word of Wisdom; those who pray for the divine support of leaders and stand for their counsel and advice. Honesty of desires, of belief, of works, has some compesation in the theological field; but the greater returns come from honesty of action. Absolute honesty is to be looked for in ideals, in angels, in deities; and the expectation of receiving rewards without merit in the upper world seems sufficiently inconsistent to check any insincere approach to the Lord; and we are led to the conclusion that ordinances without honesty avail nothing. Honesty in Spots: The conduct of individuals and groups points to a nearly universal spottedness of honesty. Many who are truthful in general are specifically untruthful in the matter of tax assessments. Persons who would be horrified at the thought of stealing, have a conscience that will permit them to fill the craws of their chickens from their neighbor's garden. And not infrequently there are people who "would not for the world"' directly rob their neighbors of sleep, but will keep a dog that makes the night uncomfortable to slumber seekers. That man was an exceptional one who, at the close of the harvest season, called a boy to him and said, "Jesse, you have more than earned your monthly wages, you have done a full man's work; I will pay you a man's wages." Grades of Honesty: There are three grades of honesty: First and highest, the free agency honesty. This grade comes from persons who need only the opportunity to be honest; they are the honest in heart. Second grade?the fear-prompted honesty. This grade comes from those who are honest in order to escape penalty; to them the evil is not in the dishonesty but in its being found out. Third grade?forced honesty. This grade comes from characters who are deprived of the opportunity of being other than honest. Only first grade honesty has in it the germ of honesty with self, Is honesty increasing? GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 45 On the whole, the world is becoming more honest, and better; like individuals, however, it is honest in spots. Education and experience have led to a higher appreciation of honesty as something that pays, in many ways?pays, in fact, in all of the long ways. In every line of life dishonesty is being viewed more and more as not only wrong but as sheer folly. Clearer and clearer it becomes that to be honest with the Lord is to be honest with one's fellow men; and to be honest with others is to be true to one's self?one's better self. Clearer and clearer in the handwriting of progress is seen the truth, It Pays to be Honest. Thirteen Things that make for improvement in honesty: 1. Submitting to honest self examination. 2. Cultivating desires for honesty. 3. Making honest confessions to self. 4. Entertaining thoughts of honesty. 5. Encouraging ambition to be honest. 6. Teaching honesty. 7. Acting honesty. 8. Fighting fraud (a) within (b) without. 9, Demanding reform (a) individual (b) group. 10. Trying to be what one would have the many become. 11. Insisting on respect for property rights in the, home. 12. Requiring children to give an account of things brought 13. Trying to find the owner of things found. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Wherein are secret prayer and self examination closely related? 2. What are the fruits of inner honesty? 3. When is one making an honest living? 4. Explain being "honest in spots." 5. Show that dishonest enterprises are dependent upon honesty. 6. Discuss: Honesty does not require that truth be told regardless of circumstances; nor that the whole truth be always told. 7. Why are April Fool untruths not dishonest? 8. Does honesty forbid a respectful reception of an unwelcome caller? Give reasons for answer. 9. Discuss: Discovered dishonesty is death to the "social soul." 10. Name some of the best fruits of (a) self honesty; (b) social honesty. 11. Quote the beatitude that promises pay for inner honesty. 12. Where must we look for absolute honesty? 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 13. Who are the members of our Church whose prayers are a "delight unto the Lord?" 14. Mention ten things that make for the increase of honesty. 15. Discuss the value of respecting property rights in the home; of the custom of requiring children to tell where they get things that they bring home; of insisting upon an effort to find the owner of "found things." 16. Discuss numbers eleven and twelve in this lesson as things that make for training in honesty. 17. Is honesty increasing? See Article "Why Education?' by President Frank S. Harris and N. I. Butt, Deseret News, Saturday, November 24, 1928. LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in March) Teachers' Topic for March?Activities of the Relief Society. Why the Lessons in Practical Religion and Testimony I. To emphasize the importance of an every-day salvation as not only a preparation for, but as a part of, eternal life. II. To bring together material from the fields of revelation, human experience, and thought, for study and discussion. III. To indicate how ideas and inspiration may be made over into character through the formation of habits. IV. To stimulate interest in self-examination with a view toward self-improvement. V. To inspire a spirit of "weary not" in the work of lifting society to higher levels of life. VI. The lessons show the indispensability of, and point the way toward:; a. The conscientious life. B. The clean life. C. The honest life. D. The temperate life. E. The industrious life. F. The loyal life? as essential parts of the abundant spiritual life. VII. The plentitude of material in the lessons provides for study, sufficient to interest the most investigative students, and this plentitude suggests the propriety of being sufficiently selective in the presentation and discussion to guard -against trenching upon the time for testimonies. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 47 - LESSON III Literature (Third Week in March) BIOGRAPHY JAMES MATTHEW BARRIE James Matthew Barrie, British novelist and dramatist, was born at Kirriemuir, a small village in Forfarshire, on the 9th day of May, 1860. He received his education in the Dumfries Academy and the Edinburgh University. From Mrs. Barrie's quasi-autobiography, Margaret. Ogilvy, we learn that before he went to school he wrote tales in the garret; and at Edinburgh he wrote the greater part of a three-volume novel. A publisher presumed this novel was the work of a clever lady and offered to publish it for one hundred pounds, but the offer was not accepted. Mr. Barrie found his way to literature through journalism. In February, 1883, he became leader-writer on the Nottingham Journal. He contributed a number of special articles and notes to this journal and thus obtained training and provided an opening for his personal talent. Soon after this he began submitting articles to London editors. In 1884 his article on "An Auld Licht Community" was printed in the St. James Gazette. More Auld Licht "Idylls" followed and in 1885 Mr. Barrie moved to London, where he continued to write for the St. James Gazette, The Home Clinic and the Edinburgh Evening Dispatch. His first book, Better Dead, was published in 1887 and was followed by Auld Licht Idylls in 1888, which was a collection of Scott's village sketches, portraying the life and humors. Of his native village. In 1889 A Window in Thurms was published, which, together with the Idylls, gave in full measure Mr. Barrie's gift of humanity, humor and pathos, with abundant evidence also of his original and vernacular style and the whimsical turn of his wit. In 1891 his first long novel, The Little Minister, appeared. In 1894 he published Margaret Ogilvy, which was based on the life of his mother and of his own relations with her, tenderly and beautifully written. Sentimental Tommy appeared the following year, and was completed by a sequel, Tommy and Grizel, published in 1900. In 1902 The Little White Bird was published. In this book he portrays his tenderness for child-life and gives full play to his whimsical invention. It contained the episode of Peter Pan, which suggested the play of that name. During this time Mr. Barrie had been developing his talent as a dramatist. In 1892 his play, Walker, London, appeared with much success. In 1893 he wrote, with Sir Conan Doyle, a play called Jane Annie. In this year he married Miss Ansell, who 48. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE had acted in Walker, London. He found much success in The Professor's Love Story in 1895; and in 1897 his dramatized version of The Little Minister probably confirmed his popularity as a dramatist. Mr. Barrie, who had been a struggling journalist of the early nineties, had by this time become one of the most prosperous literary men of the day. In 1903 three of his plays held the stage; and in 1904 Peter Pan, a poetical pantomime in which the author portrays some of his most characteristic and permanently delightful gifts, was produced. In 1905, Alice, Sit by the Fire, and in 1908, What Every Woman Knows, were added to his list. As a dramatist Mr. Barrie brought a method that was wholly unconventional and a sigularly fresh fancy, which contained also a shrewd touch of satirical humor. In literature with the simplest materials he achieved an almost unendurable pathos, never forced, but always salted with humor. Robert Louis Stevenson said of him, "there was genius in him, but there was a journalist on his elbow." What Every Woman Knows, By James Matthew Barrie In Barrie's play of four acts What Every Woman Knows, we are first introduced into the home of the Wylie family consisting of the father, two sons and a daughter. They are proprietors of the local granite quarry. This has not always been true, for Alick, the father, was throughout his working days a mason in this same quarry. It is the brother David who has raised them to this position. They have one sister, Maggie. Maggie admits that she is twenty-six years of age and is as yet unmarried. The play opens with her brothers David and James joking about marriage, for they are both bachelors. A note in the play says you do not know David and James until you know how they love their sister Maggie. They agree that she has set her heart on love, "not merely love," they say, "but one of those grand noble loves; for though Maggie is undersized she has a passion for romance." David addresses his father by asking, "did you tell her who got the minister of Galashiels?" Alick: "I had to tell her and then I bought her a sealskin muff and I just slipped it into her hands and came away." James says: "Of course, to be fair to the man, he never pretended he wanted her." Then David says: "None of them wants her. I was thinking, father, I would buy her that gold watch and chain in Snibby's window. She hankers after it." James, slapping his pocket: "You're too late, David. I've got them for her." GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 49 Then David says: "It is ill done for the minister. Many a pound of steak has that man had in this house." The brothers have made up their minds not to retire at their usual hour, which is 10:00 p. M. They know that Maggie will be in presently to remind them that it is bed-time. They think it wise not to let her know why they are sitting up, but when she comes in they are not artful enough to keep the truth from her. They tell her they have been told by the police that a man has entered the window of the house several times and they fear that he is after their silver-plate. Under the circumstances Maggie refuses to go to bed. In a short time the intruder enters the rooms. He goes directly to the bookcase where there are some five hundred volumes, takes a book from the case saying it is just what he wants and begins to read. They recognize the man who came in through the window as John Shand, a young student who is trying very hard to make his way through the University of Edinburgh. The brothers conceive the idea of offering three hundred pounds if at the end of his college career he will consent to marry Maggie. They make it very clear to Shand that if Maggie should make up her mind to marry in the meantime that she is at perfect liberty to do so, but they insist on Shand standing by the contract. Maggie shows some embarrassment at this proposition and tells Shand in a half-hearted way that she hopes that he will not feel bound if he really cares for somebody else. In the course of their conversation it develops that John is twenty-one and Maggie's brothers say she is twenty-five. Pretending to a stricter honesty than that of her brothers she says she is twenty-six. Later, when John is gone, one of her brothers says he thought she was twenty-seven. In the beginning of the second act we find John waiting for the results of the election, for he is running for Parliament, a fact which indicates that he has finished his education. Maggie is all aflutter. Finally they have the election returns. John announces that he is elected by a majority of 244. "I'm John Shand, M. P." he exultantly exclaims. Maggie, weak in her limbs says: '"You're sure you're in, John?" John says: "Majority, 244. I've beaten the baronet. I've done it, Maggie, and not a soul to help me; I've done it alone." Alick asks: "What are you doing, Maggie?' She replies: "This is the House of Commons, and I'm John, catching the Speaker's eye for the first time. Do you see a queer little old wifie sitting up there in the Ladies' Gallery? That's me. Mr. Speaker, sir, I rise to make my historic maiden speech." Then a conversation ensues in which Maggie shows that she is very eager for the marriage to take place. She reminds John that she has waited a year longer than the contract called 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for. She tells him she would like to release him from it but she has not the strength. However, she takes the contract and tears it in two, but John feels that he is morally obligated to marry her despite the fact that she insists that she has no charm and consequently does not hold it against him at all that he is reluctant. Finally she tells him that if he only had a sense of humor it might all be different. John says: "I cannot call to mind, Maggie, ever having laughed in my life." Maggie: 'You have no sense of humor." John: "Not a spark." Maggie: "I have sometimes thought if you had it might make you fonder of me. I think one needs a sense of humor to be fond of me." John does succeed in his public life. His addresses attract a good deal of attention. People say there is a unique quality about them and they actually coined a word which they called "Shandisms," to describe them. As he continues there are some of his acquaintances more analytical than others who suspect that John's work is not solely his. The bill to be introduced into Parliament relative to the rights of British women is being generally discussed by John's friends and acquaintances. Finally the Comtesse says to Maggie: "There is someone who helps out Mr. Shand." Maggie says: "There is not." Then, comes the reply, "It is a woman and it is you." Maggie says: "I help in the little things." Comtesse: "The little things! You are the pin he picked up and that is to make his fortune. And now, what I want to know is whether your John is aware that you help at all. John enters at that moment and provides the answer. He says: "Maggie! Comtesse! I've done it again." The Comtesse appreciates the fact that Maggie does much of the work and addresses her saying: "You divine little wife. He cannot be worthy of it. No-man could be worthy of it. Why do you do it?" Maggie shivers a little and replies: "He loves to think he does it all himself. That is the way of men. I am six years older than he is. I am plain and I have no charm. I should not have let him marry me. I am trying to make up for it." As John matures we are told that much has come to him that we had almost despaired of his acquiring, including nearly all the divine attributes except the sense of humor. ? Now there develops a love affair between Sybil and John. Sybil has charm but she lacks the sense of humor. Maggie is conscious of the situation and offers to release her husband. Maggie's brother David says to John: ?How long has this GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH been going on?" referring to the flirtation between Sybil and John. John: "If you mean how long has that lady been the apple of my eye, I am not sure, but I never told her of it until today." Maggie, who is knitting, looks thoughtful. She says: "I think it was not until about six months ago, John, that she began to be very dear to you. At first you liked to bring in her name when talking to me, so that I could tell you of any little things I might have heard she was doing; but afterward, as she became more and more to you, you avoided mentioning her name." David finally says: "Well, we won't go into the matter. The thing to be thankful for is that it is ended." Alick, the father, who is looking very old, replies: "Yes, yes, that is the great thing." But John says: "All useless, sir. It is not ended. It is to go on." James, the brother, says: ?Man, I could knock you down." Maggie: "There is not one of you could knock John down." David exasperated says: "Quiet, Maggie. One would think you were taking his part." Maggie replies: 'Do you expect me to desert him at the very moment he needs me most?" David: "I suppose you understand you will have to resign your seat?" (Having reference of course to the seat in Parliament.) John: "I am mortal sorry, Maggie." Sybil: "And J also." Maggie soothingly: "I am sure you are, but as it cannot be helped I see no reason why we three should not talk the matter over in a practical way." John: "If you can understand, Maggie, what an inspiration she is to me in my work." Sybil: "Mrs. Shand, I think of nothing else." Maggie: "That is fine. That is as it should be." Then they begin to plan about when Maggie should leave them, and she says it could not well be before Wednesday as that is the day the laundry comes home. And John says: "It is the day the House rises. It may be my last appearance in the House." Maggie, sympathetically: "You love the House, don't you, John, next to her. It is a pity you cannot wait until after your speech at Leeds. Mr. Venables won't let you speak at Leeds, I fear, if you leave me." John: "What a chance it would have been, but let it go." 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Then they agree that the separation shall not occur for a month, and Maggie arranges that John shall go to the cottage of the Comtesse where he can be alone and work on his Leeds address. John accuses her of doing this to separate them. He says it is just a wife's trick. Then she takes up the telephone and asks the Comtesse to arrange for Sybil to be there also. John and Sybil are not present when she does the latter thing, so she tells John that the Comtesse wants Sybil to be there. Later Maggie pays a visit to the Comtesse. As soon as she arrives she hears that there is something wrong about the speech. She finds John depressed. John had left an outline of his speech and Maggie has fixed it up and now hands it to Venables whose business seems to pass on this particular speech. When Maggie comes into contact with John and Sybil she explains that she is ready to leave with her brothers. She says: "You see my brothers feel they cannot be away from their business any longer and so if it would be convenient to you, John, I could travel with them by the night train on Wednesday." John: 'This is just the 21st." Maggie: My things are all packed. I think you will find the house in good order, Lady Sybil. I have had the vacuum cleaners in. I will give you the keys to the linen and the silver-plate. I have them in that bag. John: ?Why should you be so ready to go?" Maggie: "I promised not to stand in your way." John hesitates and Maggie says: "Don't you love her any more, John? Be practical." Sybil: "At any rate I have tired of him. Oh, best to tell the horrid truth. I am ashamed of myself. I have been crying my eyes out over it. I thought I was such a different kind of woman, but I am weary of him. I think him?oh, so dull." John: "Are you sure that is how you have come to think of me?" Sybil: "I am sorry, but, yes, yes, yes." John says: "My God, it's more than I deserve." Then a discussion ensues as to whether anybody has ever helped John. He says: "Nobody has ever helped him." Maggie says: "Not even Lady Sybil?" John: "I am beginning to doubt it. It's very curious, though, Maggie, that this speech should be disappointing." Maggie: "It is just that Mr. Venables has not the brains to see how good it is." John: "That must be it. No, Maggie, it is not. Somehow I seem to have lost my neat way of saying things." Maggie, almost cooing: "It will come back to you." GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 53 John, forlorn: "If you knew how I've tried." Maggie: "Maybe if you were to try again and I will just come and sit beside you and knit. I think the click of the needles sometimes put you in the mood." John: "Hardly that; and yet many a Shandism I knocked off while you were sitting beside me knitting. I suppose it was the quietness." John: "Maggie!" Maggie: "What is it, John?" John: "What if it was you that put those queer ideas into my head." Maggie: "Me?" John: 'Without your knowing it, I mean." Maggie: "John, could it be this, that I sometimes had the idea in a rough womanish sort of way and then you polished it up till it came out a Shandism?" John: "I believe you have hit it, Maggie: to think that you may have been helping me all the time and neither of us knew it." Mr. Venables enters and the Comtesse says: "He wishes to see you, Mr. Shand." And she adds: "About your speech." John says he has heard enough about that. The Comtesse adds: "I think it is about the second speech." And John in astonishment adds: 'What second speech?" Maggie says: "You had left the first draft of your speech at home, John, and I brought it here with a few little things I have added myself, just trifles. Things I used to suggest to you while I was knitting; and then, if you liked any of them, you could have polished them and turned them into something good. And now she (meaning the Comtesse) has shown it to Mr. Venables." John: "As my work, Comtesse?" Maggie says: "It is your work?nine-tenths of it." John: "You presumed, Maggie Shand! Very well, then. Here he comes, and now we'll see to what extent you've helped me." Venables: "My dear fellow. My dear Shand, I congratulate you. Give me your hand." John: "The speech?" Venables: "You have improved it out of knowledge. It is the same speech but those new touches make all the difference." They talk the matter over and agree that John's success is due to a combination of work. John shivers and Maggie asks: "Why did you shiver, John?" John: "It was at myself for saying that I could not live 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with you again, and I should have been wondering how for so long you have lived with me. And I suppose you have forgiven me all the time and forgive me still." Then Maggie says: "John, am I to go or are you to keep me on? I am willing to stay because I am useful to you, if it cannot be for a better reason." His hand feels for her and she draws near to him. Maggie: "It is nothing unusual I have done, John. Every man who is high up loves to think that he has done it all himself, and the wife smiles and lets it go at that. It is our only joke. Every woman knows that." Problem of the Play The problem presented in this play is that of the assistance the wife gives the husband in his work. Her part is usually done quietly without ostentation. There are women everywhere in the world, companions o fmen who have achieved success, who know with Maggie that they have been an important part of that success, whether their husbands acknowledge it or not, and who say with Maggie, it is our only joke. It is what every woman knows. Questions 1. Mention some woman or women in history who are given credit for helping their husbands in their careers. 2. Tell the story of some woman you know personally who has assisted her husband in his career. 3. Do you think there are still men who expect a great deal of help from women without giving them any credit? 4. Relate the story of some man, either mentioning his name or not as you think best, who acknowledges that his wife has assisted or is assisting him in his life's work? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE CHILD-STUDY COURSE Lesson 12. Care of Intellectually Inferior Children. (Based on Chapter XIII, The Child: His Nature and His Needs.) In the last lesson we considered the causes of juvenile delinquency. We noted there the general importance of mental factors, especially mental deficiencies, in the causation of juvenile delinquency. In the present lesson we are going to look more specifically at the causes and treatment of feeblemindedness. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 55 The author of this chapter, Dr. Arnold Gessell, is both a physician and a psychologist. He is a very competent authority in this field?director of the psycho-clinic for children at Yale University. A. The Causes of Feeblemindedness: When they learn for the first time that defective heredity is not the only cause of feeblemindedness, many parents are genuinely surprised. While it is true that most cases of mental deficiency are traced to an inherited defect in the family stock, it is also true according to the best authorities, that from ten to fifteen per cent of all feeblemindedness is the result of disease, injury, or some other malevolent factor operating directly upon the fetus or the young infant. It is notorious that such things as (a) alcoholism of the parents at the time of conception, or of the mother during pregnancy, (b) head injuries, (c) defects of nutrition, (d) whooping cough and (e) other children's diseases, seriously interfere with the normal development of the cerebral cortex?that outer layer of the brain which has most to do with the behavior function called intelligence. This being the case, it follows then that in our attempt 'to control feeblemindedness we must be just as much concerned (a) adequately to care for the child during pregnancy, (b) to prevent injury at birth, and (c) to avoid accident or disease during early childhood, as we are that mentally defective adults shall be sterilized or denied the privilege of marriage.
B. The Measurement of Intelligence: When the term "measurement" is used in connection with intelligence a wrong impression is likely to be created. Unlike the measurement of weight, or distance, for example, the measurement of intelligence is by no means accurate. While the intelligence test is a vast improvement over all other known methods of appraising intelligence, it is, nevertheless, an imperfect device and one that calls for skill in its use and interpretation. For instance. The I. Q. (i. e., the test-score) assumes that the child is at his best physically and mentally when he takes the test. In the second place it assumes that the child fully understands what is required of him by the test. Thirdly, it assumes that he co-operates willingly and eagerly in the test. Finally it assumes that the only factor operating to raise or lower his performance, and therefore his score, is his intelligence. It will readily be seen that these assumptions may or may not be true in actual practice. The best method of testing intelligence now employed by institutions caring for feebleminded children, is to supplement the results of intelligence tests by physical examination and a life-history. This life-history includes the child's developmental record of disease, his reactions to other children, his interests, habits, and, where school adjustment is attempted, his success or failure in educational work.
C. The Treatment of the Feebleminded: Medical and physical treatment of feeblemindedness, as the author points out, is a negligible factor in the control of mental deficiency. The real treatment is largely educational, psychological, and social. The elements of any state program for the care of mentally defectives should include the following:
1. Identification.
2. Registration.
3. Special education in the public schools followed by community supervision, for the high grade defective.
4. Segregation in a separate state school, for the low grade defective.
5. Segregation in a separate state institution for the defective delinquent.
In view of the fact that the 1929 legislature is now considering the establishment of a state training school for mental defectives, such a program is of vital importance to the people of Utah at this time. Utah has the unenviable distinction of being one of only three or four states in the Union without such facilities. Feebleminded children in Utah must either be sent to Idaho, Colorado, Oklahoma or some other nearby state school, or else remain at home. The injustice is great in either case. If these children remain at home, they become a burden to their parents; they are the object of ridicule and jest in the neighborhood, and are virtually denied their right to some kind of education. If they are committed to an out-of-state institution, the cost of care is exorbitant, for they are charged the special rates of the non-resident. Furthermore, parents are unable to visit them oftener than once or twice a year because the cost of travel is prohibitive.
QUESTIONS
1. What other factors than heredity can cause feeblemindedness?
2. What is the correct definition of an "idiot," an "imbecile," a "moron?"
3. What are the dangers of an uncritical use of mental tests?
4. Why is it necessary early to detect and train feebleminded children?
5. What should a school curriculum for feebleminded children include? What should be its key-note?
6. Why is Utah so backward in establishing adequate facilities for its mentally handicapped children?
7. What facilities exist in your local schools for the special treatment of dull and backward children?
Karl G. Maeser A Biography by His Son
From affluence and social standing in aristocratic circles of Germany to humble stations in Utah, from wealth and comfort to poverty and actual want, from an aristocrat to a man of the common people, from a military disciplinarian to a kind and helpful father of thousands in the world of education, and, above all, from a skeptic and scoffer to a devout and resolute believer in, and defender of, the principles of the doctrine of Jesus Christ as taught by the Latter-day Saints, this, in brief, is the remarkable series of disclosures concerning a great but humble life briefly set forth in the first book published by the Brigham Young University?Karl G. Maeser.
The book is written by his son Reinhard Maeser, now also deceased, long a teacher in the institution founded and brought into greatness by the faith and works of his illustrious father. The first chapters might well be termed "The Martyrdom of a Devoted Hero." Most of the early incidents are tragic. The trials and disappointments of a mind cultured and comprehensive and of a soul sensitive and conscientious; a battle fierce and long-drawn out against unaccustomed environments; adverse conditions of a new and extraordinary sort, exactly calculated to sting to the quick the proud and sensitive soul of the German scholar called to teach a district school in pioneer educational days in Utah,?these are the pictures shown in the neat text of the little volume about a big man.
The record of his missionary labors in Germany, of the offers of his friends and family to induce him to give up the Latter-day Saints, and come back to be one of the ornaments of German society again?these topics form another interesting and characteristic period of the life of Karl G. Maeser; and upon them many a missionary will delight to dwell.
The period of the infancy and development of the Brigham Young Academy will be of intensive interest alike to the present students of the Brigham Young University and to those of far earlier years, who enjoyed the unique privilege of coming under the instruction of this magnetic character builder and inspirer of youth.
The final honors, which a grateful community at last showered upon him, form a record that is full of fascination even to strangers. To those who were associated with the events recorded, the narrative tingles with a beauty and glory that is not strictly personal to the life of Dr. Maeser, but carries one into the sacred realms of a truly intellectual and religious atmosphere.
The book is likely to excite the dismay of the mere man of the world, who will exclaim, "Is heaven so unkind as this to its choicest children?" But it will act as a challenge and stimulus to the mind more heroic, which will get from these narratives the inspiration to aspire and the fortitude to suffer, in order to live the higher life, with "those immortal souls who live again in lives made better by their presence."
If I Could Only Live By Alfred Osmond
If I could only live to see unkindness An exile, banished from my mortal ken, I would not fear to face the final blindness That comes at last to all the sons of men.
If I could only live to see devotion Exalted on the throne of righteousness, I would not fear to face the final motion That seals the fate of human happiness.
If I could only live to see my Nation Become a Christian land in very deed, I would not fear to face the separation That proves the folly of a faithless creed.
If I could only live to see the day When all the drums of war would cease to beat, I would be happy and would gladly say That life is beautiful and death is sweet.
"I advise young men and women to save the most precious years of their lives by securing a business education, that they may go forth fully equipped early in life."?Andrew Carnegie.
?the practical courses in this school prepare you for rapid advancement.
L. D. S. Business College
Write today for full particulars.
ENTER ANY MONDAY
We should'a drunk more milk when we wuz kids?
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at?a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health.
GLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
