The Happy Homemaker" whenever they met. "Well, how is the Happy Homemaker today," she asked when they ran into each other in the supermarket.

At the next meeting of the Neighborhood Club, she said, "Let's have a happy thought for the day from our Happy Homemaker." Each time Janet just smiled, although she felt distinctly uncomfortable. If it hadn't been for the friendliness of the other girls, she would have withdrawn from the club. One day she caught a glimpse of the inner Carolyn, and it made her hopeful that they might eventually become friends. Carolyn came over to get her daughter, Peggy, who had become the very best friend of Janet's Karen. Janet was making cookies with the enthusiastic but messy help of the two four-year-old girls. "Peggy," Carolyn said as Janet invited her into the kitchen, "what a mess you're making." "That's all right," Janet said. "We are all having fun doing it." "Mama," Peggy said, "I made this my very own self." With great pride she held up a mangled cookie. "How nice," Carolyn said. "If you stay around here long enough maybe you'll learn something useful." She watched as Peggy and Karen rolled and cut more cookies. "Why don't you roll out a few?" Janet invited, offering a rolling pin. "T really have to get home and thaw out some dinner for Jack," Carolyn said. "Besides, I'm all thumbs when it comes to baking. My mother taught me how to handle sculptor's clay, but we never did get around to cookie dough." Her tone was almost wistful. "It's easy," Janet said, handing The Happy Homemaker her a piece of dough. "Just try it." So, for the next half hour, until Carolyn remembered she should be home "thawing out dinner," she rolled and cut fancy-shaped cookies. Janet felt strongly that the episode might have established some basis for understanding between them, but a week later, at the next meeting of the Neighborhood Club, she was again scorched by Carolyn's caustic tongue. "What is the latest goody from the oven of the Happy Homemaker?" Carolyn asked as Janet arrived. Janet smiled at her. "As a matter of fact, I just took a batch of bread from the oven." "Such thrift," Carolyn murmured. "I don't do it all the time," Janet replied, wishing that she didn't always feel so apologetic around Carolyn. "But this morning I wanted to try out a recipe I learned at Relief Society." "At where?" Carolyn said, obviously amused. Janet wished she hadn't mentioned Relief Society. Carolyn was sure to make some sarcastic remark about it. Well, Janet just wouldn't give her the chance. It was about time she stopped being defensive about her life. "At Relief Society," she repeated cheerfully, then went on to explain a little about what it was. "I wish you would all come with me to a meeting some day. You would be surprised what you can learn there. Why, you might even learn to quilt." "Quilt?" said Marcie Edwards. "T thought that went out with great-grandma." "It's fun," Janet insisted. Then, on an impulse, she added, "Let me be the hostess at our next meeting and we'll have an old-fashioned quilting bee." "Sounds fun," Norma said. "That's something we certainly haven't done before." "For an encore we'll make lye soap," Carolyn said. Despite Carolyn's sarcasm, Janet was happy as she made the preparations for the quilting bee. She asked Sister Thompson, an elderly widow in the ward, if she would come over and teach the girls to quilt. Sister Thompson was thrilled to be of service. "Let's piece a Texas Star," she said. "No, let's make it something simple so they will feel free to make mistakes." Happily she set to work, with Janet's frequent help, to put together a colorful top. On the day before the meeting she brought the complete top and her frames to Janet's house to set them up. "T'm really looking forward to this," she said. "So am I," said Janet. She planned to make it as much as possible like the quilting bees her mother had sometimes held. For lunch she was going to serve fried chicken and fresh-baked bread, as her mother had done. It was while she was at the supermarket purchasing chickens that she heard her name mentioned from the other side of a canned foods shelf. "Are you going to the meeting at Janet's tomorrow?" The voice was Norma's. The answering voice was unmistakably Carolyn's. "I guess I'll go, just for laughs. A quilting bee—can you imagine?" Norma spoke again. "She's such a quaint little thing." Quaint! So that's what they thought of her. Quaint. Old-fashioned. Peculiar. Strictly for laughs. She had known from the very first that she didn't fit in with that group. She would never be anything more to them than the quaint little thing who lived in Sally Mason's house. Quickly Janet paid for her chickens and left the store. She wanted to go home and hide. She would call all the girls and say she was ill and couldn't hold the meeting. But when she got home and saw all the preparations Sister Thompson had made, she knew she would have to go through with it. She forced herself to be cordial the next morning as the girls arrived. They squealed with pleasure over the pretty quilt top, and under Sister Thompson's direction they began to sew with enthusiasm. Janet waited for Carolyn's inevitable sarcasm, but it didn't come. In fact, Carolyn was strangely subdued as she sat there stitching the bright squares. However, everyone else was talkative. "Isn't this fun," said Marcie Edwards, "to have a meeting where we can do something and talk, too?" "Sit down and sew with us," Norma said. "You've been working in that kitchen all morning." "Can't now," Janet said. "I'm all ready to serve lunch." The lunch received even higher compliments than the quilt. "Oh, my diet," moaned Eva Rankin. "But I don't care." She took another slice of bread. Even Carolyn was complimentary. "Every home should smell of fresh-baked bread," she said. The girls stayed on until it was time for their children to come from school. "Let's do it again sometime," Marcie Edwards said as she went out of the door. "I'd like to make a quilt for my boy's bed." Carolyn was still quiet as she left, but she thanked Janet politely. Norma was more effusive. "It's so wonderful to have you with us," she said, giving Janet a little hug. "You're such a quaint little thing, and so refreshing to have around." Quaint again. Janet knew now that it was a compliment. She returned Norma's hug, and smiled happily after the departing girls. The quilting bee had been a success, and Carolyn had not made a single sarcastic remark. At least not yet. The Happy Homemaker It was several days later that Carolyn came by and asked if she could come in and talk for a few minutes. Surprised, Janet said, "Certainly. Come on into the kitchen. I always seem to be baking when you come. Today it's pies." "T like being in your kitchen," Carolyn said. "It seems so cozy." Janet smiled.

My mother always said the kitchen is the heart of the home. "In my home it's been a pretty cold heart," Carolyn said thoughtfully. "But after your quilting bee the other day, I went home and baked some cookies. Thought I would see if I could make my house smell as homey as yours. I let Peggy and David help. We were still at it when Jack came home, and he joined right in. I don't know when we have felt so close, so much like a family. We almost starved before we finally got around to thawing our dinner. Davie asked why couldn't we do something like that more often, so we have."

 

Janet opened her mouth to say something, but Carolyn held up her hand. "Let me finish before I start blubbering or something. Anyway, it is gradually dawning on me how precious my family is and how much we can enjoy each other. Those first cookies weren't very good—although the children thought they were wonderful—but I'll keep trying. You know, Janet, I may even turn into a 'Happy Homemaker.'"

Janet said, laughing. Carolyn's face reddened just a little, but she grinned. "Exactly. Oh, I'll still probably go back to work in a year or two, but maybe in the meantime I can begin to establish the kind of home I would like my children to remember. I think things started coming clear at your quilting bee."

Janet was surprised. Quilting bee?" Carolyn nodded. "I came prepared to be sarcastic about it, but somehow, when we got started, 'The it seemed like such a womanly thing to be doing, the sort of thing our great-grandmothers did back in the days when they created homes out of the wilderness. Your home has that same kind of warmth and welcoming hominess that I imagine theirs had. But there is something more than that. A lot of the warmth comes from you yourself—some inner contentment or serenity that even my sarcasm couldn't reach. What is it, Janet, that makes your life so different from mine?"

Suddenly Janet was terribly grateful that events had brought her to this place and into contact with this young woman. Silently she prayed that she might say the right things.

"Carolyn," she began, "in order to start answering your question, I'm going to ask you two questions. We call them 'The Golden Questions.'"

May is the month
One thinks of children
For they, too, are a prelude
To summer.
They are down-young and
Soft to the touch;
Pink to the rejuvenating eye.

One sees Maypoles being braided;
And bare toes curling in sand,
Damp at the shore, warm
In the wide roads of youth.

One sees oneself—
As a child again
Climbing into the apple boughs;
Walking the paths, threaded
Between poplars, arching over
Quibbling-voiced stream waters.
One feels warmth returning
Like breath, like life itself
Reaching its fulfillment.