What Wilt Thou Have Me to Do?"
Afton W. Hunt
Member, General Board of Relief Society

It is recorded that, at one time, an individual had the opportunity to ask of the Lord Jesus Christ, this question, "What wilt thou have me to do?" The answer given to Saul was neither complicated nor difficult to understand. He was told to go to the city of Damascus where he would be shown that which he should do. The great overall rewards from Saul's obedience to these simple instructions in his new-found faith, resulted in immeasurable service to God, to mankind, and to himself.

What shall we do with our lives?
We who daily face crisis and frustration in the conflict between sin and righteousness, and whose families must be strengthened for an unpredictable future.

We, too, would ask, "What wilt thou have me to do?" [Address Delivered at the In essence is not this the question presented to the Prophet Relief Society Annual General Joseph Smith by the women of Conference, October 2, 1988] Nauvoo when they consulted him concerning their desire to be of greater service in the gospel effort? His answer to them was neither complicated nor difficult to understand, but it made plain our Heavenly Father's plan for the service, progress, and purposeful living of his daughters. With inspired vision, he organized the sisters that their efforts for service would be combined with opportunities for mental and spiritual growth, and provide ways and means whereby they could equip themselves to meet life's challenges in every age. Through obedience to this great plan, the accomplishments of Relief Society as an organization stand in first place among those of organized women of the world; so much so that those unacquainted with Relief Society, and the capabilities of its active individual members, are amazed in learning of it. An example of this is an experience of the cultural refinement class leader of my own ward Relief Society when she traveled with her medical doctor husband on a professional trip to a California hospital. As was her practice, she took with her the Relief Society textbook to study while she waited for him. And so it was that she happened to be in a California hospital waiting room reading Out of The Best Books, Volume 3, when she became aware of being closely observed by a refined appearing woman sitting across the table from her. At length the woman spoke to her saying, "Excuse me, please, but I see by the title of your book that you evidently belong to a literary study group." Our class leader replied that she did, and that the group was the women's organization of the Church to which she belonged. It seemed to surprise the woman to hear that a Church group studied literature, or anything other than theology. So our sister had the opportunity to explain to her the extensive educational and service program of Relief Society. On hearing of its variety, and broadness of scope of the studies and activities, the woman's reaction was one of amazement. Could it be that we who are so close to and engaged in our Heavenly Father's program for us, accept it as an ordinary privilege and fail to associate this blessing with its inspired source? Do our neighbors and friends recognize, through us, Relief Society's proffered opportunities? In every stake in the Church there are Latter-day Saint sisters, as well as those not of our faith, who are not yet acquainted with the strengthening influence of Relief Society. Are we using every opportunity to demonstrate its constructive force in our own lives? It has been said that the only Bible some people read is the example they see in the lives of others. As Relief Society sisters, even our small acts speak with power to those who are reading our lives. Evidence of the potency of Relief Society in lifting standards and accomplishments to the point of influencing others through example was recently brought to my attention. A woman from Australia applied at the Church Information Center for assistance in learning about so-called "Mormonism." She explained that she knew nothing about the Church but that she had a friend in Australia who, as she said, "joined the Mormons," and that she also belonged to "their women's organization." She reported that in a very short time it had completely remade the friend and changed her focus in life, that she had almost reversed her former practices and attitudes toward people. Most important of all, she now seemed to be enjoying a happiness one seldom sees in life. The visitor explained that while touring the United States, she had made special effort to come to Salt Lake City to learn the truth about such an organization. It is stimulating to know that the pattern and directives given to Relief Society sisters through the years are as applicable today in preparing us to meet the challenges of modern living as they have been throughout our history. How grateful we should be for this magnificent blessing that is ours to share. It gives us opportunity to light our spiritual candles every day as we live, that en masse we may become a light-house to those who are searching for truth. May we so pattern our lives that they will be a visible answer to every woman who is mentally asking, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?" 

Aio