Mission Of The American Red Cross
Emil E. Henderson The American Red Cross is the instrument chosen by the Congress to help carry out the obligations assumed by the United States under certain international treaties known as the Geneva or Red Cross Conventions. Specifically, its Congressional charter imposes on the American Red Cross the duties to act as the medium of voluntary relief and communication between the American people and their armed forces, and to carry on a system of national and international relief to prevent and mitigate suffering caused by disasters.

All the activities of the American Red Cross and its chapters support these duties. The accomplishment of its mission of health and welfare services at United States military installations in this Country and overseas and to the civilian population across the Nation is a task of great magnitude. Its success depends on the participation and involvement of thousands of volunteers enthusiastically willing to share their time and their talents in the service of others.

There is further dependence upon the generosity of those who contribute of their means to finance these humanitarian programs. Services offered by the Red Cross are many and all are dedicated to the health, safety, and peace of mind of people. Whether it be a Home Nursing course offered through cooperative efforts of Red Cross and the Relief Society—emergency action on behalf of a serviceman in Viet Nam—disaster aid to flood victims along the Mississippi—rescue of a drowning child and the administration of First Aid—blood supply in hospitals across the land—services to patients in hospitals by kindly volunteers—or food for the starving children in far away Biafra—every single effort is guided toward giving the ill more opportunity to regain health, the homeless a place of abode, and the discouraged hope for the future.

The Red Cross, as much as any organization on the American scene, has erased from the public mind the image of volunteers as serene dispensers of charity. Serene they may be, but they are workers. They do big jobs and small ones; they handle unpleasant tasks as well as pleasant ones. They bring skill and efficiency to their efforts along with understanding and compassion.

They come in all ages, sizes, and colors, bound together by one primary motivation—the desire to serve their neighbors.

In a recent statement, Mr. E. Roland Harriman, National Chairman, said, "The Red Cross is unquestionably the largest volunteer organization in the country, and in the volunteer spirit lies the Nation's greatest strength."

184 "