A GIFT OF LOVE Helen looked at me over the heads of our children. Neither of us could say more. Of course we didn't visit lots and lots. Helen was able to come when Timothy Bryan was born two years later. Her stay was not long enough. Katrina was a beautiful child, but by no means a model, just normal. I sensed a difference in Helen, though I couldn't pinpoint it. She was Helen, yet she seemed thoughtful, as if she had great matters of importance on her mind. After she went back East, years flew by as we wrote and exchanged many pictures. Katrina seemed never to hit an awkward stage as my five boys did. I guess she photographed well, and yet she just seemed to radiate from the snapshots. I knew she had Helen's outgoing spirit and strength, and Howard's sensitiveness and calmness. As for my boys—Eddie was gangling into teenage, Mickey lived up to his nickname, with red hair and freckles, Jimmy-Joe had finally quit breaking windows, at least ours, Davey Jones was beginning to love the ocean and ships, for some odd reason, and Timmy B. Seemed to be trying to surpass all his brothers. We had so much, Jeff and I, a moderate success, good health, and yet, sometimes, I wondered what was missing. I put it down as Helen, Howard, and Katrina. Just before Katrina's eighth birthday, Helen wrote and asked if we could come out for a special event, kind of make it a vacation trip; whatever it was, it was as important to her as when Ka— 220 (Continued from page 189) trina was born, and she wanted to share both times with us. Our whole family was excited; we got permission for the boys to leave school, and were half-packed when Timmy B. Came down with mumps. The last one left in our family to have them, but what a time to pick for mumps! Nor could he have them conveniently on both sides at once, making it possible for us to fly back East the last three days of our planned week. First the left and then the right! Both families felt sad and Helen still wouldn't explain what had happened so special. She said she wanted to see us face-to-face when she did. A month went by. Late one night the phone rang. Loud, sharp, and clear. It was Helen. A dull, lifeless voice—thousands of miles away, barely recognizable as our exuberant Helen. Howard was dead. Lost in his beloved sea. He had been caught in one of those Atlantic shoreline squalls. He and five boys in a small sailing yacht. He had trimmed the sails, got the boat going toward shore when a swell came, he slipped, and was gone. He had taught the boys well; they all made it in safely. We flew back for the services. Jeff helped wind up Howard's and Helen's affairs. I helped her pack. We all knew she and Katrina were coming home again. They were part of us. Katrina was a lost child. Davey Jones seemed to know just what to do and say to her, maybe because he was quiet and gentle like her father. I found I truly missed that quiet-in-the-background man. He had been so much more than I realized until he was gone. Helen was silent. Not quiet. Not cold. She talked, but she was silent. Like a lovely warm home, closed for a season. On our last evening there I went to the basement for paper to wrap the dishes in, and I found Helen and our Davey Jones going through Howard's foot locker. "Aunt Helen, I wish I were really Davey Jones. I'd give you back your Howard." Close to tears Davey tried to fold Howard's Navy dress whites. "David John, oh, no, son, son, Davey Jones doesn't have my Howard. No, not as good a man as he. Why, my Howard is in his glory. He has truly gone home, Davey, to his Father in heaven. He's at peace and is happier than our fondest dreams."

I grieve because I cannot see him for a time, and because Katrina must be reared without him, but someday Davey, if we are worthy, we can and will see him again, and all be together with Heavenly Father." Helen seemed almost her old self by the time we arrived home. Katrina was excited by flying, tired, and still a little confused. By the end of the week she seemed in much better spirits. In fact, both Helen and her daughter seemed excited on Friday evening when we all met in the family room as Helen had asked. We presumed it was to settle money arrangements and our living together as one family. Jeff was just starting to say something about all this to-do hardly being necessary, when Helen started to speak, not at the usual full-speed-ahead pace, but calmly, quietly.

"A Gift of Love" She and Howard had missed our family when they moved and had learned to appreciate the friendship we had all shared, but, especially, that shared by Helen and me. They kept trying to think of a gift suitable to show this appreciation.

"But we couldn't," she said, "because we didn't have the gift ourselves yet, so of course we couldn't give it." Just then the doorbell rang. "I'll get it," Helen called back over her shoulder, as she hurried out of the room. As I looked at my family I knew we were all trying to think of the gift one had to have oneself before one could give it to another. Katrina squirmed and tapped her foot, drummed her fingers, and smiled.

"Here we are," came Helen's voice as two clean-looking young men came in the room, then Helen herself. She introduced us first, then said, "These young men are called Mormon elders. Missionaries of our Heavenly Father, like these two, gave Howard, Katrina and me the gift of the true gospel, a beautiful gift that we would like you to have also." She looked at me, "Once you said I kept your feet on the ground, now I want you to reach for heaven itself. Please listen to them."

As the elders began to speak, my husband, our boys, and I looked at each other. Then I looked at Helen, my friend, and saw and heard again the scene back East in her basement. My heart seemed ready to open to the words to be given to us by the gift of love. Julia Archibald Godfrey, Mount Ogden Stake, Utah, has made many friends and relatives happy with the gift of a lovely quilt. She has spent many hours teaching the art of quilting to others and has donated countless quilts to Relief Society. In addition to her quilting, Sister Godfrey does beautiful embroidery work. She has made many pairs of pillowcases and doilies, and makes lovely temple aprons. This dear sister is the mother of eight children. There are thirty-four grandchildren and ninety-three great-grandchildren. Sister Godfrey is currently serving her sixty-fifth year as a visiting teacher, and has served as a counselor in Relief Society and in leadership positions in the other auxiliaries.

Ethel Sewell West, Mount Ogden Stake, Utah, is an accomplished artist with a needle. She learned to quilt, embroider, crochet, and other crafts while very young. Many beautiful handmade articles grace her home and the homes of family and friends. She is very skillful at making elegant aprons and other articles of clothing. Sister West is the mother of four children. She has seventeen grandchildren, thirty-six great-grandchildren, and two great-great-grandchildren. This sister has served as a counselor in Relief Society, as Magazine representative, homemaking leader, and has been a visiting teacher for forty-five years.
 
Pst aed.* 7 vo 4 sae , Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Synopsis: Jennifer Miles, a young girl of twenty-four, has been visiting friends in Houston. She has left behind Steve Rey, a young man to whom she is attracted. In Houston she meets handsome Jim Long who has devoted his attentions to her. The bishop of the ward is director of the famous Texas Heart Center. Jennifer's mother is suffering from a serious heart ailment, and a famous doctor has performed a delicate operation on her.

Mrs. Miles was pronounced well enough to return to Utah just five weeks after the surgery had been performed. It was a joyous day for all when Dr. Mayhew gave them the good news. Charles, Jennifer, and Elizabeth made plans to fly to Salt Lake City, where they would be met by a grateful and happy family. Jennifer's excitement at the prospect of returning home was not too severely dimmed by the necessity of bidding farewell to Jim, although she admitted that

Welcome the Task Chapter 
she would miss him, and the attentions he had paid. He was serious that night.

"I'm glad your mother is better, Jenny, really I am. It is too bad she couldn't make it home for Christmas though."

"Yes, but everyone is just overjoyed that she is all right now. It was a lonely Christmas for the boys. Dad was willing to fly them here, but Dr. Mayhew felt the excitement might be too much."

"True. I personally am kind of glad you were here, however." He smiled down at her.

Jennifer had become quite accustomed to his good looks by this time. She knew this goodbye was going to be difficult for both, however it was only for two months, then he would be in Utah. There might even be more problems then.
 
Vee 8 yh ee "What are your plans?" he asked.

"Well, if Mother doesn't need too much care, I'll resume classes in February, probably taking a light schedule so that I can be more helpful."

"And at the end of February, you're reserving time for me, right?"

"Of course, Jim, I'll see you. Mother has made it clear to you that you are welcome at the house."

"I'll want to see you alone, too," he reminded her.

She smiled at him. "Jim, you act as though we'll be apart forever. It is only two months; less than that, actually."

"I know," he said, "It's just that I hate to see you go. I've grown accustomed to having you around."

"Now, Jim," she teased. "Let's not make this hard, please."

"OK," he promised. "Just don't give your heart back to that fellow before I get there," he growled.

Jennifer smiled. "My heart isn't going anywhere for awhile, Jim." She laughed. "Now you smile, and tell me goodbye. I've got an early plane to catch, and you've an early radio show. I promise to listen to you on the way to the airport."

"And I'll play you a special song," he said, some of his old easy confidence beginning to come back.

Bea would miss Jennifer, but she was already occupied with her tiny granddaughter who had been born in early November. "It's so good to have a baby in the family at last," she announced proudly. Elizabeth Miles was overjoyed at the prospect of returning to her sons and home. Dr. Mayhew gave Jennifer careful and detailed instructions concerning her care, which Jennifer took down in shorthand and typed for certain accuracy. As the plane circled the Salt Lake airport, Jennifer thought about the day when she had taken off, more than six months ago. She had been glad to go, but nothing could equal her joy upon returning. She had missed her home more in that six months than she had the entire time she spent in England. Yet, she had had such golden experiences in Houston, she would never regret having gone. The first people she saw as she followed her parents down the ramp were her three brothers, who could hardly stand still in their anticipation of being together as a family again, and especially of seeing their mother. Directly behind Sam stood Steve. She knew how to greet her brothers, but what about him? In the excitement of coming home, she had given that no thought. Tears fell freely as mother and sons, brothers and sister, and her mother's parents all greeted one another—the moment they had all hoped for but had dared not anticipate too much. "Mother stayed behind to have a good meal ready," Steve explained, as he smiled down at her in that old familiar way, taking her hand, and holding it a trifle longer than necessary. "We brought two cars," Dave said quietly. How he has grown, Jennifer thought. There was a maturity in his face and actions that had not been there when she left. His success in football had given him a new confidence, which her parents had prepared her for, but she was nevertheless surprised by his manly bearing and steady gaze. He broke into a smile and kissed her gently on the cheek. "I'm awfully glad you're back, Sis," he said. When she left, the last thing she would have expected from him was a show of affection of any kind. "I'm glad too, Dave, terribly glad," she said, with tears playing at her eyelids. "Count me in," Steve remarked. It was decided that Jennifer and Elizabeth's parents would ride to Springville with Steve, while the three boys would go with their parents. "They'll probably never stop chattering," Jennifer's sweet grandmother remarked. "It has been so long for them." "We are all so thankful she came back to us," her grandfather said. "It has been quite a strain on everyone." He was a stake president, and spoke with a matter-of-fact calmness that reminded Jennifer of the way her mother had always been, taking things as they came, worrying, but never sharing the worry, lest others be affected by it. The next few months were busy ones for Jennifer, as she carried out Dr. Mayhew's instructions regarding the care of her mother, and attempted to manage the home. No more did she feel the pangs of dissatisfaction which had plagued her earlier. Welcome the Task She was happy at home. And she knew she was where she should be and doing the thing she ought to be doing. Steve was more attentive, and she was able to help him by typing his papers. He was competing for an important scholarship that would enable him to do graduate work at the university of his choice, and much of his time was occupied with this. Jennifer had come to accept him as he was, demanding nothing. She had a letter from Jim Long telling her that he would be seeing her in February. She was looking forward to this and the start of a new semester. She was confused by her feeling for Jim and for Steve, so she took the problem to her mother. "It is a perplexing problem, Jenny," her mother told her. "But if you are faced with a decision between the two of them, you will know through prayer and your heart. Don't try to use logic in matters of the heart, for it's not always best. I'm not suggesting that you abandon your common sense, but don't get tangled up in it. You can't say, 'how this one is better looking, but that one has more money, or this one shows more promise of being—successful.' They seem to be pretty much equal in most things that count, like manners, grooming, integrity, Church activity. But if the time comes, my dear, you'll know which one is right for you, and which one needs you by his side. There is a great deal more to love than the physical attraction, but don't discount that either." They had many talks on the 225 " qualities of a good wife and mother, each of which left Jennifer grateful for the example she had to follow. "Now, consider Pete," her mother told her during one of their talks. "He seems to be a pretty impetuous little fellow, never thinking, or really caring what the consequences of his actions will be, yet he's the most thoughtful character around here. Someday, and you mark my words, he is going to get himself into a jam, and he'll start thinking before he acts. I don't try to fight his personality too much, for to force a change on him would not be right. We have to mold character around what there is to begin with." Another time, she spoke of her eldest son. "Dave is growing up fast. One morning I discovered that he was becoming a man. It wasn't the smell of shaving lotion or the sudden quiet maturity, it was the over-all effect. He's a little like your grandfather, he doesn't say much, and it's hard to know what he is thinking. His biggest fault is that once he makes up his mind, it is very difficult to reason with him. Fortunately, he has learned well the difference between right and wrong. I suppose one of these days a girl will come along and he'll have to unbend a little. That is the beauty of life. We can't control them, but we can guide them in so many subtle ways." It seemed to Jennifer that the things her mother was saying were written indelibly on her mind. "Sammy's the one who is most like your father," her mother said one afternoon after Jennifer discovered that the youngster had dammed up the irrigation ditch in the field, causing a mild flood on the Miles property, and a great deal of indignation at the neighbor's. "You can be sure he wasn't in on it alone," her mother continued. "But, I am equally certain that he was the leader. Sammy needs discipline, but he also needs all the affection we can give him. I can't explain it, that self-confidence of his is a wondrous thing, but it has to be fed constantly. Do you understand what I mean?" "I think so," Jennifer replied, wondering if it would be possible to keep the boy out of mischief for even two hours at a time. He had been caught stealing apples from the neighbors again.

"I only took the ones that fell on the ground on our side of the fence," he stubbornly insisted. "And how did you make them fall?" his father asked. Sam was made to apologize and help pick the apples without remuneration. "Perhaps that will keep him busy for just a little while anyway," Charles commented when Sam left the room. The Miles family had never been closer. Mrs. Miles spent a good many hours at the piano, and the family, all of whom had been blessed with good singing voices, joined her. They sang all of the old family favorites and the hymns from the hymn book. Steve and also his mother often joined them for quiet evenings of enjoyment.

One afternoon in late January when Jennifer was visiting the campus with Steve, she met one of her former business instructors. "Jennifer, what a pleasant surprise. What are you doing with yourself these days?" Jennifer briefly explained to him what she had been doing. "You wouldn't happen to be interested in taking on some typing, on a rather permanent basis, would you?" he asked her. "Why, yes, Dr. Moran, I think I would enjoy that," she replied. "I am running this thesis typing service," he explained, "and I need a couple of really good typists who know the forms. It really pays quite well." Jennifer was excited. She enjoyed thesis typing, for the opportunity of learning in depth about so many different and fascinating subjects.

They made final arrangements, and Jennifer was once more gainfully employed. She had expected Jim Long to be rather shy at meeting the rest of her family. But the young man was full of confidence and impressed them all. He was excited and anxious to continue his law studies. She knew that he would make an excellent lawyer.

"Do you really like living in the country?" he asked her one day in the springtime. "I love it," Jennifer told him as she leaned against the walnut tree. "It is really a great place to visit," he commented, "but me, I have to have paved walks and lots of people around." He turned over on his stomach and gazed up at her. "I thought you liked Houston."

"It is a nice place for a visit," she answered, smiling. "Really welcome the task though, I am quite adaptable. There are advantages to both kinds of life, and I can be perfectly happy anywhere, if the circumstances are right." "That is what I call a well-adjusted person," he said, squeezing her hand.

She looked at the top of his dark head, such a contrast from Steve's blonde one. But that was the least of their differences, she thought. How was it possible for her to be attracted to both? After Jim left again, Steve was more attentive, but she suspected that was because he was leaving soon for California to complete a summer internship in journalism. He could afford to be attentive at times like that. She knew him too well to expect him to be jealous over Jim.

One afternoon, shortly before he was to leave, he came bounding across the lawn. She knew instantly that he had won the coveted scholarship. He hadn't mentioned where he would study. She knew that Columbia had a good journalism department, as did Stanford. Suddenly she didn't want him to go. 

She covered it up with a sincere display of interest and happiness. Perhaps it was best, she thought. He would leave for the summer, she was prepared for that, and she could work on forgetting him. Besides, Jim Long would return in September, she told herself.

"Where will you go this fall, Steve?" he looked serious for a moment, then grinned. "I will go to the Y, the same as if I hadn't received the scholarship." She was incredulous. "Why?"

"It's where I want to go," he told her. "I like it there, and it is rising each year on the scale of excellence as a graduate school. I can get everything I need and want there, and be near everyone who counts, too."

Mourned through the summer, Jennifer worried a great deal about her mother. She seemed to have weakened considerably. In late July she contracted a cold, with a racking cough that left her weak and exhausted after each attack. By mid-August she was no better; in fact, she seemed worse, and suffered a great deal of pain.

Jennifer's fears grew, and she sensed them also in her father. Bea had written to announce that she would be in Utah in late August, and Jennifer made feverish plans for her arrival. She seemed driven to have the house in perfect order. Still, she found time for the additional serious talks with her mother.

"Always welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself," her mother advised several times.

It was after visiting the doctor for a general check-up that it was suggested that Mrs. Miles enter the hospital. Jennifer could hardly bear the thought, for Elizabeth was so happy at home. But as the painful cough overtook her more and more frequently, Jennifer realized that only in the hospital could she receive the care and relief she needed so badly.

On the eve of the day Bea was to arrive, Jennifer fell into bed exhausted. The house was in order, some advance meals prepared and in the freezer, and desserts readied. It had been hectic. Jennifer could not recall ever working so hard.

Her mother had been in the hospital for a week, and that evening she had seemed somewhat better. "Goodbye, my darlings," she said softly as they prepared to leave. Each of the boys had been extra tender. Pete's goodbye had been most disturbing to Jennifer as she thought back over it. Each of them had kissed Mrs. Miles and said good night. Pete had leaned down and kissed her gently.

"Goodbye, Mother," he said softly. Mrs. Miles responded with her "Goodbye, my darlings."

Jennifer, though exhausted, lay awake for a long while. She had no idea how long she had been sleeping when the telephone downstairs sounded loudly in the dead silence of the night. Getting up quickly, she hurried downstairs just as her father was hanging up. He looked gray and frightened.

"Jenny," he said, "I think we had better go to the hospital."

(To be continued)

All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church.

All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department,