[Vol12 | June 1925 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: The Contribution of the Emigrant]

The Contribution of the Emigrant
Recently the story of the triumph of Dusolina Giannini reached us from across the sea.

It has been said of Caruso that his first great triumph was in London, and now an American girl of Italian birth sings in Queen's Hall.

And, to quote the news-
EDITORIAL 327
papers, "took musical London by storm." At the close of her program she was forced to sing no less than seven extras before the enthusiastic audience would allow the lights to be extinguished.

Mrs. Asquith said she had heard no voice like Giannini's since Patti's in her heyday.

The London Times music critic says of Giannini, "Her appeal is instant and it grows as the evening goes on.

It is a voice of two octaves, levelly shaded, with the quality of a clarinet and the penetration and carrying power of the horn, and the human blend of these is irresistible.

But besides this, she sings with her whole heart and with every part of her." Some day, no doubt, America will be appreciated for her native art and for the artistic triumph of those who have been Americans for several generations.

To-day she shines through borrowed light.

Those of us who thrilled at the beauty of the architecture and the decorations seen at the San Francisco Exposition are aware of the fact that a good deal of it was produced by Americans who either came themselves from southern Europe or who are the descendants of those who were born in lands beyond the sea.

Whatever discouragement the immigrant problem may present, we must not forget that much of the art that we enjoy in this country is ours because we have taken into our national life many people from other lands gifted in art lines.

Let those of us acquainted with art development here in Utah, Idaho, and Arizona think of the leaders in various lines; let the names of the musicians run through our minds, and Then determine how many of them were either born abroad or are the children of parents born abroad.

Think of people in other lines of art and see how valuable has been the contribution from the people across the sea.

The Metropolitan Opera Company of New York has maintained its prestige because it could obtain the great opera stars of Europe.

Within the hour in which we are writing this editorial, we have had a chat with two of our local musicians who agree that the Chicago Musical College has on its faculty men almost entirely of foreign birth, who speak naturally a foreign tongue.

When we think of the Tabernacle Choir, of which we have all been justly proud of these many years, we realize that its conductors have been men of English birth, of Welsh extraction, and that its present leader is of Scandinavian parentage; that its two most prominent organists, Joseph J. Daynes and John J. McClellan are children of parents born abroad, while many of our leading soloists are of European extraction.

There are two sides to this tale of American immigration, and if one picture is a picture of unusual gloom, the other is transcendent in its brightness and should encourage us in the midst of any discouragement.