[Vol12 | June 1925 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Greetings and Report Clarissa Smith Williams]

greetings of welcome, expressing appreciation for the faithfulness and devotion of Relief Society officers, 
 New Boarp Memsers: President Williams introduced two new board members, recently appointed: Mrs. Nettie Davis Bradford, and Mrs. Elise Benson Alder, who had been sustained by the General Authorities of the Church and the General Board of Relief Society.

Mrs. Bradford and Mrs. Alder have both heen successful and devoted Relief Society workers, Mrs. Bradford serving for nine years as president of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society, and Mrs. Alder for ten -years as president of the Ensign stake Relief Society.

Warp CONFERENCES ON SuNDAy: President Williams explained that it is the desire of the General Board that Relief Society ward conferences be held on Sunday in preference to any other day.

The General Board is anxious for the work of the organization to be put before the people of the ward and it iS felt that this can best be done in a Sunday meeting.

Where ward canferences are held on Tuesday or any other week day, the public generally is not in attendance, and inasmuch as the board wishes to acquaint the public with the Relief Society work, it has been definitely decided to recommend that all ward conferences be held on Sunday.

By consulting with the bishop and the Relief Society stake president, it is felt that Relief Society women will be able to obtain consent for the Sunday conference.

SoctaL Service InstrTuTES: President Williams reported that a course in family welfare work is being given at Relief Society headquarters under the direction of the General Board, with Amy Brown Lyman in charge, assisted by Miss Cora Kasius and Miss Lydia Alder.

This course is being given for the benefit of the Salt Lake county stakes—nine in number.

Five delegates are attending from each stake and the course will cover a period of twelve weeks.

In conducting this course, the General Board has the full cooperation of the Presiding Bishopric.

A short course of twelve lessons was recently conducted by the Palmyra stake.

The attendance included the ward bishoprics, ward Relief Society presidencies, and the stake board.

The program was carried on under the direction of the General Board.

Revise Socrety TEMPLE Donation: Questions have been asked by many officers and workers regarding the Relief Society temple donation.

Inquiries have been made as to whether this fund is ever to be used for temple maintenance, or for any other purpose than for work for the dead.

In answer to this question President Williams stated that the fund which is donated by Relief Society women for temple work, namely, 50c by each woman in the organization for the endowments of a woman who has passed away, is donated and should be used to pay for temple work, and should never in any instance be used for temple maintenance or for other purposes.

Each woman in the Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 285 either goes to the temple to redeem one woman, or she contributes 20c for the redemption of one woman, and the money so contributed and donated should be used for this purpose only.

If in the past it has ever been used for any other purpose it must have been through a misunderstanding.

Wherever contributions are made, an explanation should be made that this money is donated specifically for temple work for women and is not made as a general donation for temple maintenance or other temple activity.

It has been recommended that where possible names from local organizations be sent in with the money.

Where this is not done the letter accompanying the money should explain specifically that the money is for temple work.

Temple funds may be sent directly to the temple from the Relief Society, or they may be turned over to the genealogical committees in the stake and wards to be sent in with stake and ward names.

RESPONSIBILITY OF OFFICERS IN REORGANIZATIONS: There still seems to have been some misunderstanding in some of the Societies, regarding the division of funds at the time of reorganizations.

It is recommended by the General Board that funds which are on hand in the stakes and wards at the time divisions occur, should be divided between the new and the old organizations.

The General Board recommends that when a stake or ward is divided, that such stake or ward divide the funds on hand at the time of the change proportionately with the number of members in the new division.

The funds are often divided equally, although the new group may be smaller than the old one.

Revier Society Funps: The question has been raised as to whether the Relief Society should contribute from its funds to the ward for general ward purposes.

It has been brought to the attention of the board that frequently money is needed by wards for special ward work, and the Relief Society has taken funds from its treasury either from the general fund or from the charity fund, and has presented them to the ward for these various purposes.

The General Board has been instructed by the General Authorities of the Church that funds collected by the Relief Society for general Relief Society purposes, or for charity or health work, should be not diverted or used outside or the organization ~ itself.

Funds collected for the Relief Society should be used within the organization itself and should not be diverted for ward maintenance or for other general ward purposes.

If the Relief Society is asked to give any assistance to the ward proper, funds should be raised especially for such purpose, and in some special way, without disturbing the Relief Society ward treasury which consists solely of Relief Society funds raised for Relief Society work only, and not for other purposes.

The General Board realizes that the Relief Society is a very large group in the ward 
 and that this group should be willing to assist the ward in raising funds for such purposes as in the opinion of the bishop should be fostered by the auxiliary organizations; but it would seem much better for the Relief Society, under such circumstances, to make special effort to raise this special fund for the particular purpose desired by the bishop and the ward authorities, rather than to take funds from the treasury, which have been contributed for other purposes.

It is advised that where money is needed for ward purposes, and all of the auxiliaries are asked to assist in raising this fund, that the Relief Society take part with the rest of the auxiliaries in this general duty, without disturbing in any way the regular Relief Society ward funds which have been contributed by the members of the organization for the Relief Society work proper.

The wheat trust fund should be held and the interest used for health work, including maternity chests and bundles and health clinics. -The expenditure of this fund, especially, should be under the direct supervision of the Relief Society stake presidents.

It is further advised that Relief Society funds be not hoarded but should be used for the, promotion of Relief Society work.

Nurse ScHooL_: The General Board is still interested in the training of practical nurses or nurse aids, and it is hoped that before many years a definite course for practical nurses or nurse aids may be arranged for.

The General Board regrets that the nurse aid's course at the L. D. S. Hospital was discontinued, but the hospital was asked to eliminate this course, or its grading would be lowered.

There are some hospitals in the United States which have succeeded in putting in a short course in maternity nursing only, and it is hoped that our hospital here may be permitted to do likewise.

In case this can not be worked out, the General Board may decide to reopen its theoretical school for practical nurses, and stake presidents may be called upon at any time to assist in fostering such a course.

Crinics AND HeatrH Centers: There has been some objection on the part of physicians in various parts of the state to the health clinics and health centers which have been established under the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act.

Wherever health centers or clinics are to be introduced it would be a wise plan for the local committee, on which the Relief Society iS represented, to take the matter up with the local doctors in the community with a view of getting their cooperation and support.

It should be explained to them that the opening of clinics is not designed in any way to interfere with private practice.

These health centers and clinics are supposed to make examinations only, and refer all work to the family' physicians.

It is only natural that doctors who have spent a large portion of their lives in training RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 287  for their work would resent having people given free treatment under the auspices of the state or of private agencies.

Doctors are usually willing to do charity work where it is recommended, but they object to having people who are.

Able to pay for medical work given free service.

Community workers should therefore make it plain to the local physicians that the health centers and clinics are only for examination and that all treatmen will be referred to them.

QUINQUENNIAL CAMPAIGN: As state chairman for the Quinquennial Committe of the International Council of Women, President Williams thanked the stake and ward officers for the splensupport given the central committee of the state in raising the state quota.

The fund was raised to help defray the expenses of the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women, to be held in Washington, D. C., in May 1925. The National Council will be the hostess on this occasion, for the International Council, which is made up of the National Councils thirty-six countries, with a membership of thirty-six million women.

Mrs. Williams explained that she was named by Mrs. Philip N. Moore.

President of the National Council, to act as state chairman of Utah, and she was notified that the quota for the state was $3,500, and that the fund was to be raised by all the groups in Utah affiliated with the National Council.

The following organizations in Utah which are affiliated with the National Council sent delegates to the meeting called by President Williams: League of Women Voters, National Woman's Relief Society, National Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, Women's Relief Corps, General Federation of Women's Clubs, Women of the G. A. R., American Association of University Women, National Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teachers' Association, Women's Christian Temperance Union, Young Women's Christian Association, Medical Women's Association, National Auxiliary of Spanish War Veterans, American Legion Auxiliary, Service Star Legion, State Nurse Association, the Temple Sisterhood.

The representatives assembled decided to raise the fund by asking every member of every affiliated group in the state of Utah to contribute 10c toward the state fund.

Immediately after the meeting held early in November, letters were sent out to the local presidents of the various groups and there was such a hearty response from the women of the state to the appeal of the central committee that in less than three months the quota was raised and torwarded to the 'president of the National Council.

Mrs. Moore hastened to acknowledge the receipt of the contribution from the state, and to inform the chairman that Utah was the first state in the union to send in its quota.

The Relief Society responded in its usual prompt and liberal manner, as did other affiliated groups, and 
 Utah accordingly raised its ful] quota.

As General President of the Relief Society, as well as State Quinquennial Chairman, President Williams extended her heartiest thanks and gratitude for the generosity of the Relief Society women.