Smile On D. F. Chamberlin.
Don't lose your smile, my mother dear, When I have gone to war; 'Tis waste of time to shed a tear, Smile on me from afar.
From the cradle on I've seen you pray, You bade me do the same, But God will help us day by day To smile on in His name.
Your smile must greet me as of old, As bright, as sweet, as clear; To keep me still a "hero bold"  Smile on, my mother dear.
Our country needs both you and me, That righteous peace may dawn; To give me strength on land and sea, You must smile on, smile on.
When "over the top" or in the trench, Your smile will help me through, 'Twill be my earliest thought when I Come marching back to you;
And if that march be on this side Or to the great Beyond I'll raise my heart in grateful love If you will still smile on.
THE SPIRIT OF THE HOUR. A Christmas Lesson.
Entertaining has always been one of the joys of hospitable America, and the latch string has hung out for the unannounced friend as well as for the bidden guest. If there has been a fault in hospitality, it is that many have thought of entertainment in terms of food rather than as an opportunity for interchange of experience and ideas, placing the pleasure of breaking bread together as a secondary consideration.
This Christmas we sit at a "common table" with many who for months have stood in ever lengthening bread lines and we have the chance at this greatest entertainment of the year, the celebration of the birth of peace and good will on the earth, to teach the lesson of self control and common sense to ourselves and our children.
The Christmas Dinner  First of all, the amount provided must be less even though we serve "the home produced Christmas Dinner." Can we overeat while others starve? In time past we have shared our Christmas cheer with those who were needy. They are in greater need than ever now, so let us cut our portions in half, for our duty to the army and our allies includes our neighbors. Are they not our country? Not a scrap must be wasted or a morsel eaten for eating's sake.
Imported dainties have no place upon our table this year. Layer gelatin made with the national colors, Hooverized English Plum pudding, Italian potato, French sweetmeats with small American and Allied flags at each plate is a suggestion for an "Allied" Christmas dinner which will emphasize the thought that it is the spirit of the hour and not the food which counts.
Write cheery letters to the boys describing the Christmas table. It will sound much better to him than one of those "we missed you so" letters which weaken the morale and wring the hearts.
Guests should bring their own sugar, because your allotment is meant to serve just the members of your family. It sounds inhospitable but common sense comes to our aid and reminds us that the sugar no longer belongs to us but to Uncle
Sam. Let us eliminate candy from our Christmas table and send it over there. The boys crave candy as never before. What a relief to mothers and doctors, for there are annually hundreds of sick children from over indulgence in candy-eating at holiday time.
Jelly and preserves unless made with at least part sugar substitute have no place on our Christmas table. A woman was heard to say that her husband had always been accustomed to his bread and jelly at meal times and could not do without. Shall we not make the watchword of the hour "nothing as usual."
And so the table is spread, and cheerful, hopeful hearts are around the board and with "Tiny Tim" we say, "God Bless us Everyone."
The Christmas Gift  And what of that accompaniment of the dinner, the Christmas Gift. Of course we shall have them. They give the chance for the youngster to exercise ingenuity. A little girl of twelve was given one dollar from which she obtained seven gifts. Seed saving from home gardens was a feature of the year's work. Pretty wrapped packages of seeds, plainly marked with name of seed and directions for planting would be appreciated. A steam pressure cooker would be a true conservation gift which would more than pay for itself in one year in amount of fuel saved. Gifts of toys, except to very little people should be replaced by utility articles.
We do not read sufficiently magazines that treat of the war. A year's subscription to the American, the Atlantic Monthly, the Century would be of double value since after reading, it can be sent to the soldier boy who covets something good to read even more than he craves candy to eat. Remember also our local magazines: Relief Society Magazine, Era, Young Woman's Journal, Juvenile.
If the list of gifts looks drab after the rich offerings of the past, remember that lots of fun can be put into the distribution, and again that it is the spirit of the hour and not the gift that counts.
RECIPES.
French Sweetmeat.
1 quart of fruit butter.  cup corn syrup.
Cook till thick, spread on greased plate to dry. Serve in rolls or cut rolls into -inch pieces. Various colors make an attractive appearance.
Layer Gelatin (Old Glory).
Make gelatin with juice of lemon, grapes and cherry or other red color. Fill a mould to ? with red gelatin. Allow to set firmly. Add lemon also setting and finally the grape. Chill and serve whole.

Italian Potatoes.
Boiled potatoes riced and served with shredded green peppers.
Hooverized English Plum Pudding.
1 cup Bread crumbs. 1 tsp. Cinnamon. 1 cup Carrots.  tsp. Allspice. 1 cup Raisins or dates.  tsp. Salt. 1 cup Suet. 2 tsp. Baking Powder.  cup Brown sugar. 1 cup Lemon-citron. 2 cups Flour. 2 Eggs.
Steam from two to three hours.
Conservation Plum Pudding.
1 Qt. bread crumbs. 1 package seeded raisins, mixed with 1 cup of flour and the yeast powder. 4 eggs. 1 cup Molasses, honey, or 1 cup sugar. 1 pint of milk. If sour use 1 even teaspoon soda. If sweet milk, 2 teaspoons yeast powder. Nutmeg or other spice for flavoring. 1 tablespoon peanut butter.  lb. of butter.
Pudding Sauce.
Cream may be used with or without sugar. Cooked or liquid sauce should be boiled at least  hour, one hour is better.
2 qts. of water. 1 cups sugar.
Boil slowly one hour. Add water if it evaporates, to keep the two quarts. Rub  pound of butter with two tablespoons flour. Cook in syrup half-hour, flavor with one drop of mapleine, or 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 teaspoon lemon,  teaspoon nutmeg.
Current Topics. James H. Anderson.
Chile seized all German ships in Chilean harbors on October 30.
Public gatherings of every kind were stopped in Utah in October, owing to the prevalence of influenza.
Austro-Hungary was broken by internal turmoil by the last of October, and was defeated, and surrendered to the Entente nations.
Utah and Idaho over-subscribed their apportionments of the Fourth Liberty loan. The fifth loan comes in March or April next.
Cross-country mail service with automobiles is being tried in the Eastern States, in sections off the lines of railway.
The United States had over 2,000,000 men in Europe by the end of October, and more are being sent thither.
Forest fires in Minnesota in October caused a loss of nearly 1000 lives and much property.
The Lucia, a supposed "unsinkable ship" built in America, was sunk in mid-ocean in October, by a German submarine.
Great tides swept the east coast of Central America in October, causing some loss of life and much destruction of property.
The North American Review, in its current number, makes a conservative and strong protest against the steady suppression of the freedom of the press going on in the United States. The Review certainly has courage.
Bulgaria surrendered to the Entente allies in October, thus breaking the eastern line of the Teutonic nations.
Russian Bolsheviki, known as the soldier's and workmen's government in Russia, continued its thousands of brutal murders as a record for October.
Belgium was virtually freed from German occupancy in

October, the Germans retiring slowly before the victorious allied forces.
Mexico yet has the revolutionary movement headed by Francisco Villa, and desultory fighting went on in October.
German women were found operating machine guns when the American forces advanced against the Teutons near Metz, in October.
Sugar in large quantities was at the Utah and Idaho beet sugar factories in October, awaiting shipment because railway facilities were insufficient.
A coal famine in the United States for the winter of 1918-19 seems to have been precluded by the unusually good autumn weather this year.
The "Mormon" Church subscribed $250,000 to the Fourth Liberty loan, making $750,000 purchased by the Church from the Government to date.
Woman suffrage was defeated in the United States Senate by a vote of 53 to 31, in October, there not being the necessary two-thirds in its favor. It is hoped that it will come to another vote at Christmas time.
American soldiers to the number of 366 were lost on the transport Otranto, which was sunk by collision in October, off the west Irish coast.
President Wilson made an appeal in October for the election of a Democratic Congress, and was met by a strong protest for such action while he is chief executive.
Mesopotamia has been freed from Turkish rule over its entire extent, and the British now virtually have an all-land way through Syria and Mesopotamia to British India.
Turkey talked of surrender to the Entente allies all during the last three weeks of October, and surrendered unconditionally at the end of that month, to Great Britain.
An explosion of TNT, the powerful explosive now used for war purposes, occurred at a munitions plant at Perth Amboy, New Jersey, on October 5, killing more than 1000 employees of the factory.
Spanish influenza, as the "overflowing scourge" prevailing throughout the world in the autumn of 1918 is called, claimed more than half a million victims in the United States up to the end of October, with approximately 25,000 deaths.
Earthquakes occurred in several sections of the globe during October, the most disastrous being at Porto Rico, where a considerable number of people were killed and large property damage inflicted.
A severe marine disaster, said to be the worst in the history of the American Pacific coast, occurred in October, at Lynn Canal, Alaska, when the steamship Sophia was wrecked in a storm, and 343 persons  all on board  perished.
Palestine, cleared of Turkish rule and under English religious liberty, soon may be opened to the preaching of the gospel to Israel gathered there, and successively to Israel scattered through countries in Europe where hitherto there has not been religious liberty.
At the October Conference, those in attendance were highly gratified at President Joseph F. Smith being able, notwithstanding his illness, to be present and address the assemblages for a short time on two occasions.
Gen. Allenby's triumph in October, in driving out or capturing all of the Turkish and German forces in Palestine, and advancing his lines 200 miles north to the vicinity of Aleppo, the main Turkish and German base in Syria, was the greatest military victory in the world-war up to date.
Attention Agents and Subscribers:
The first week in December will be known throughout the Church as Relief Society Magazine Week, when every effort should be put forth to procure new subscribers for 1919.
We ask our sisters to renew their subscriptions at that time.
All hail Magazine Week, beginning December 1.