[Vol28 | February 1941 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Woman's Centennial Congress Julia A. F. Lund]
Woman's  Centennial  Congress 
Julia.  A.  F.  Lund 
A  FITTING  climax  to  the  allowed  five  delegates,  chosen  by  a 
"woman's  movement''  of  the  special  delegate  committee.  In  or- 
last  century  was  the  Woman's  der  to  have  a  satisfactory  working 
Centennial  Congress,  held  at  the  number,  the  delegate  body  was  lim- 
Hotel  Commodore,  New  York  City,  ited  to  three  hundred.  All  the  great 
November  25,  26,  27.  This  historic  organizations  of  women  actively  co- 
event  was  twofold  in  its  purpose:  operated  with  the  Congress.  It  was 
first,  to  review  the  work  of  women  very  fitting  that  the  women  of  the 
and  to  do  honor  to  the  great  women  Church  be  represented  by  the  heads 
of  the  past;  second,  to  provide  an  of  two  of  their  organizations— Presi- 
opportunity  for  women  to  ''take  dent  Amy  Brown  Lyman  for  the 
stock  of  themselves";  to  face  the  Relief  Society,  who  was  also  a  dele- 
challenge  to  women  of  the  world  gate  from  the  National  Council  of 
of  today;  to  reexamine  the  role  of  Women  of  the  United  States,  and 
women,  their  goals  and  the  means  President  Lucy  Grant  Cannon  for 
which  they  wish  to  use  to  achieve  the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Im- 
these  goals.  Women  realize  that  provement  Association.  Other  dele- 
in  every  great  crisis  of  history  they  gates  from  Utah  were  Mrs.  Burton 
have  been  a  force  in  the  thought  W.  Musser,  Mrs.  Arthur  E.  Graham, 
and  action  growing  out  of  the  crisis.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Bagley,  Mrs.  Julia  A.  F. 
Never  before  has  the  responsibility  Lund,  and  Mrs.  E.  O.  Leatherwood. 
been  so  great  and  the  problems  so  There  were  many  sub-committees 
momentous  as  at  the  present  time.  responsible  for  working  out  the  de- 
Long  and  careful  preparation  was  tails.  The  two  main  committees 
given  to  the  Congress.  The  advice  were  the  Woman's  National  Com- 
of  experts  in  the  various  fields  was  mittee  with  Carrie  Chapman  Catt 
sought,  and  women  from  all  parts  of  as  chairman,  and  the  Men's  Com- 
the  world  were  invited  to  relate  their  mittee  headed  by  Nicholas  Murray 
experiences.  Representatives  of  all  Butler.  The  following  statement  was 
professions,  walks  and  phases  of  life  made  by  Doctor  Butler:  "Surely 
were  listed  among  the  sponsors.  In  the  meetings  of  this  Woman's  Cen- 
addition  to  the  women  of  distin-  tennial  Congress  will  be  followed 
guished  service  and  the  foreign  with  great  interest  throughout  the 
guests,  each  state  in  the  Union  was  country.    It  is  to  remind  us  that  it

80 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY,  1941 
is  one  hundred  years  since  a  defi- 
nitely organized  movement  began  to 
give  women  not  only  an  interest  but 
participation  in  the  guidance  of  pub- 
lic opinion  and  in  the  formation  of 
public  policy.  The  story  of  what 
has  happened  during  those  years  is 
well  known.  The  achievements  of 
women  in  public  service  of  every  sort 
and  kind  have  been  in  the  highest 
degree  remarkable,  and  this  Con- 
gress will  be  hailed  as  marking  the 
first  long  stage  in  the  history  of 
woman's  new  relationship  to  public 
policy  and  public  life." 
The  registration  on  Monday  af- 
ternoon was  important,  as  the  dele- 
gates were  presented  with  the  ma-