[Vol28 | February 1941 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Some Literary Friends Hyde]
Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde
No. VII "The Inferiority Feeling"
NEVER before within my recollection has there been a time when the conditions around us seemed to be so topsy-turvy. With war staring us in the face and the experience of the worst depression the world has ever known just past, we look almost with foreboding into the future. The feeling of insecurity which exists is causing unhappiness and in many cases even mental disorders. People are flocking to psychiatrists to be set right because they are so emotionally upset over the conflicts of life that they cannot set themselves right. Nothing that we might read can solve the difficult problems of life, but it is becoming increasingly important that in our reading and in our entertainment we reach for something that will "lift us up." We should select reading material that will promote a healthy attitude toward life. Any book that will give us a better understanding of ourselves will help us to develop a more wholesome attitude toward life in general.
Two books which do this, by discussing personal problems, have been written by William S. Walsh under the titles, The Mastery of Fear and The Inferiority Feeling. The Mastery of Fear is particularly valuable for the "nervous" and the "timid" person. In it, Doctor Walsh discusses the different types of fears and suggests practical remedies after they have developed. In a chapter on fear of public opinion, the author says, "The basic secret of all-enduring satisfaction is: 'To thine own self be true....' To be ourselves, to achieve, requires courage, determination, confidence. It takes these things to do anything of real value. In only a few instances has anything of lasting importance been accomplished save after years of patient and hard study.
"We can gain the esteem of our fellows and at the same time be true to our characters, our beliefs, our personalities. We cannot please everyone all the time. We shall have to disagree, to refuse, to reprimand, to do our own living and our own thinking. We shall be misunderstood, perhaps disliked and criticized, but can gain the good will of the majority.
"All we require is that we be worthy, that we practice the codes of conduct which promote good feeling; e. g.: be courteous to everyone; speak the best of all; be genuinely pleased at the good fortune of our friends; acknowledge their good points. In short, apply the Golden Rule to daily life and practice the fast decaying art of being gentlemen and gentlewomen."
FOR those who are interested in books of a psychological nature (and we all should be), few will contribute more to an intelligent understanding of one's self than The Inferiority Feeling. It takes superlatives to describe the value of this book, so basic and so fundamental is its discussion. Perhaps no one thing has contributed more to the marring of personalities than the feeling of inferiority. What it means and how it is developed is of first
SOME LITERARY FRIENDS
importance in the study of personality. An understanding of these things will greatly simplify one's ability to overcome the feeling. Doctor Walsh has treated the subject of inferiority in an easy, readable style in his excellent volume.
The feeling of inferiority is quite universal, and appears in many forms. Hardly a person exists who has not suffered from some form of it. We feel consoled when we read that Norma Shearer, Claudette Colbert, and even Clark Gable suffer from timidity. The reason for this affliction, we are told, is that the ego is working overtime; that if we felt sufficient we would take things quietly, never boasting, bragging, nor forming the habit of imposing our opinions on others. It may be surprising to learn that the dominating person who always wants his own way is usually suffering from a feeling of inadequacy.
The effect of an inferiority feeling is believed to be tremendous upon character, temperament, happiness and success in life. The first few chapters of Doctor Walsh's book, while a little more technical than other parts of the book, should be carefully read. They are devoted to childhood. During this period, Doctor Walsh points out, the "foundation for these [inferiority] difficulties are laid." We engender this feeling in children when we tell them that they can't do things or can't have things, and particularly when we tell them they are naughty or are not behaving as they should. Therefore, it is important that we try in early life to make children want to do the right thing and that we reward them for good behavior rather than punish them for bad behavior.
