[Vol28 | February 1941 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Pearl H. Redford]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
129 
fare  of  others;  he  has  never  made  it 
an  end  in  and  of  itself.  Long  years 
of  experience  have  caused  him  to 
formulate  his  philosophy  of  life  in 
the  statement:  'That  which  we  per- 
sist in  doing  becomes  easier  to  do, 
not  that  the  nature  of  the  task  has 
changed,  but  that  our  capacity  to  do 
has  increased/' 
Questions  and  Problems  for 
Discussion 
1.  What  great  prophet-leader  inspired 
the  youthful  Heber  J.  Grant  to  place  abso- 
lute faith  in  obedience  to  God's  com- 
mands? 
2.  Upon  what  has  President  Grant 
based  his  firm  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  the  work  of  Joseph  Smith  and  the 
Latter-day  Saint  Church? 
3.  What  significance  do  you  attach  to 
the  farewell  message  of  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  to  Heber  J.  Grant? 
4.  What  influences  motivate  President 
Grant  in  preaching  so  strongly  the  need 
of  more  rigid  observance  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom? 
Topics  foT  Study  and  Special  Reports 
1.  Have  someone  read  and  report  to 
the  group  some  of  the  articles  dealing  with 
the  family  life,  missionary  labors,  Church 
activities,  civic  leadership,  and  business  en- 
terprises of  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  found  in 
the  November,  1936,  Improvement  Era. 
(This   issue  is  a   treasury   of   information 
regarding  the  intimate  and  public  life  of 
our  President.) 
2.  In  every  ward,  stake  or  mission  will 
be  found  many  books  that  President  Grant 
has  given  to  friends.  What  significance 
do  you  see  in  his  hobby  of  giving  away 
books? 
3.  Have  someone  make  a  report  of  James 
H.  Walhs'  article,  "President  Grant,  De- 
fender of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,"  in  The 
Improvement  Era,  November,  1936,  pp. 
696-698. 
4.  Read  the  biblical  verses  quoted  on 
pages  485-488  of  Vol.  VI  of  the  Compre- 
hensive  History  of  the  Church  that  explain 
President  Grant's  view  of  practical  religion. 
5.  Read  President  Grant's  testimony  as 
related  on  page  62  of  Heroes  of  Truth, 
prepared  by  Maude  Beeley  Jacob. 
6.  Have  someone  make  a  report  on 
President  Grant's  personal  interest  and 
work  in  the  temple.  {The  Improvement 
Era,  November,  1936,  page  660) 
References 
Heber  J.  Grant,  Editorials  in  recent  is- 
sues of  The  Improvement  Era. 
Heber  J.  Grant,  Sermons  in  the  annual 
and  semi-annual  Conference  Reports  of 
the  Church. 
Improvement  Era,  November  issue, 
1936.  (This  is  a  special  number  commem- 
orating the  eightieth  birthday  of  the  Pres- 
ident.) 
B.  H.  Roberts,  Comprehensive  History 
of  the  Church,  Vol.  VI,  pp.  479-505. 
ReUef  Society  Magazine,  November, 
1936,  pp.  671-683;  December  issue,  1940, 
pp.  727-728. 
  ^   
viSittng  cJeacher 
MESSAGES  TO  THE  HOME 
How  We  May  Honor  Priesthood  in  the  Home 
No.  8 
Home  Training  For  A  Mission 
(Tuesday,  May  6,  1941) 
"Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature,  acting  in  the 
authority  which  I  have  given  you,  baptizing  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son, 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  68:8)

1^0  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGA2INE— FEBRUARY,  1941 
/^NE  great  mission  of  the  Church  esty,  truthfulness,  and  faithfulness 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  to  duty;  practice  in  praying  aloud 
Saints  is  to  take  the  Gospel  message  in  the  home  and  in  expressing  one's 
to  the  world.  Every  boy  in  the  self  clearly;  sociability;  a  knowledge 
Church  expects  some  day  to  have  of  proper  etiquette;  the  ability  to 
this  privilege,  provided,  of  course,  care  for  one's  own  clothing  and  to 
that  he  is  recommended  for  a  mis-  prepare  a  well-balanced  meal;  will- 
sion  by  his  bishop  and  called  by  the  ingness  to  do  one's  share;  and  a  sin- 
Presidency  of  the  Church.  cere  desire  to  be  of  service  to  others 
He  goes  without  funds  from  the  i"  carrying  to  them  the  Gospel  mes- 
Church.    In  December,  1940,  there  ^^g^- 
were  approximately  2,250    mission-         A  missionary  cannot  be  sincere 
aries  in  the  field,  most    of    them  in  his  work  without  being  benefited 
young  men.  The  home  can  do  much  himself, 
to  prepare  boys  and  girls  for  this  u^^^  Discussion  Helps 
2reat  missionary  work.    Some  of  the        ^ ,  ,        r  ,    ^,      , 
^rc^«*.-^   «  ^^j  1,^-u-*.^  o-i,-,*- ^      -u^  Most  members  of  the  Church  would  be 
quahfications  and  habits  that  can  be  ^^  ^,^^^  j^^^^  ^^  -^  ^^^^^  ^^  ^^^ 
cultivated  m  the  home  and  which  country  if  it  had  not  been  for  the  work 
make  for  success  in  the  mission  field  of  some  missionary  in  bringing  the  Gospel 
are:   a  knowledge  and  a  testimony  to  them  or  their  parents  or  grandparents, 
r    .1       r>.         1       -u  J-  J.       1.1,  Nearly  all  of  us  owe  a  debt  of  gratitude  to 
of   the   Gospel;   obedience    to    the  ^he  missionaries  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Word  of  Wisdom;  habits  of  hon-  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
  ^   
vi/ork-and-  {Business 
NUTRITION 
No.  8 
Refreshing  Refreshments 
(Tuesday,  May  13,  1941) 
npHERE  are  refreshments  which  re-  is  easier  to  keep  those  50  pounds 
fresh    and   refreshments   which  off  before  the  fiftieth  birthday  ar- 
depress.      Refreshments  which  are  rives  than  it  is  to  get  them  off  after 
really  refreshing  are  those  which  are  age  50.    The  wise  woman  will  not 
light  in  calories,  moist  but  not  soggy,  let  her  body  become  weighted  down 
not  too  sweet,  and  which  are  quickly  with  too  much  fat.    Cutting  down 
and  easily  digested.  on  party  refreshments  is  one  way  to 
Party  refreshments  often  consti-  cut  down  the  surplus  calories  which 
tute  an  extra  meal  for  people  who  will  be  stored  as  body  fat.     Most 
are  already  taking  too  many  calories  of  the  food  served  at  parties  is  very 
and  who  are  already  overweight.  high  in  sugar,  starches,  and  fat. 
A  person  at  age  50  who    is    50         Much    sleep    disturbance    comes 
pounds  overweight  has  his  life  ex-  from  eating  rich,  heavy  foods  served 
pectancy  cut  down  50  per  cent.    It  at  parties  at  the  midnight  hour.   A

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
131 
warm,  non-stimulating  beverage  tak- 
en just  before  retiring  has  a  relaxing 
effect  on  some  people.  Rich  pastries 
or  other  heavy  foods  served  late  at 
night  keep  most  people  from  going 
to  sleep  quickly  or  from  sleeping 
soundly  after  they  go  to  sleep. 
Party  refreshments  are  sometimes 
a  drain  on  family  budgets,  due  to  the 
attempt  to  serve  more  elaborately 
than  has  a  previous  hostess.  Re- 
freshments can  be  attractive  and  in- 
expensive. They  really  should  be 
incidental  to  the  party  and  not  be 
the  major  feature  of  it.  This  is  par- 
ticularly true  as  far  as  children's  par- 
ties are  concerned. 
Refreshing  drinks  can  be  made  at 
home  at  little  cost.  Fruit  drinks 
are  far  more  desirable  made  from 
fruit  juices  than  from  a  powder 
bought  at  the  store  and  stirred  into 
sweetened  water.  Rhubarb,  plums, 
cherries,  berries,  apples,  or  any 
home-grown  fruit  which  is  tart  can 
be  made  into  juice  and  canned  with 
very  little  sugar  to  be  used  as  fruit 
drinks,  either  alone  or  mixed  with 
other  fruit  juices.  These  fruit 
drinks  may  be  served  either  hot  or 
cold. 
Chicken  broth  or  other  meat 
broth  with  the  fat  removed  makes 
a  good  hot  drink  to  serve  on  a  cold 
day.  It  may  be  mixed  with  tomato 
juice  or  seasoned  with  celery  salt, 
bay  leaves,  or  any  desired  flavoring. 
Salads  made  from  fruit  or  raw 
vegetables  served  with  French  dress- 
ing are  appetizing.  Heavier  salads 
contain  too  many  calories  for  this 
extra  meal. 
Open-face  sandwiches  made  with 
a  thick  sandwich  paste  on  a  thin 
slice  of  bread  or  a  wafer  will  cut 
down  the  usual  high  starch  content 
of  party  refreshments. 
Fruit  desserts  which  are  not  too 
sweet  or  frozen  desserts  which  do 
not  contain  too  much  thick  cream 
provide  fewer  surplus  calories  than 
do  the  rich  pies,  cakes,  and  pud- 
dings which  are  so  frequently 
served. 
RECIPES 
HOME-CANNED  FRUIT  JUICES 
Prepare  fruit  juices  for  beverages  from 
berries,  cherries,  currants,  or  plums.  Use 
only  sound,  well-ripened  fruit  in  such 
quantities  that  the  canning  process  can  be 
carried  through  promptly.  To  avoid  over- 
cooking and  to  preserve  the  original  flavor 
and  color  as  much  as  possible,  check  the 
temperature  with  a  thermometer  as  the 
fruit  is  precooked  and  the  juice  pasteurized 
Sugar  also  helps  to  preserve  color  and 
flavor,  but  it  may  be  omitted  if  an  un- 
sweetened juice  is  preferred. 
Wash  the  fruit,  drain,  and  crush.  Add 
water,  if  desired,  to  thin  the  juice — about 
Vi  cup  of  water  to  each  pound  of  fruit. 
Heat  to  170°  or  180°  F.,  and  hold  for  sev- 
eral minutes  or  until  the  juice  can  be  sep- 
arated from  the  pulp.  Extract  the  juice 
with  a  fruit  press  or  strain  through  several 
layers  of  cheesecloth.  A  second  straining 
without  pressure  makes  the  juice  clearer. 
Add  sugar  if  desired,  using  about  Vz  to  1 
cup  of  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  juice.  Heat 
the  juice  to  160°  or  170°  F.  and  then  pour 
into  hot,  sterilized  glass  jars  or  bottles;  fill 
bottles  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top.  Seal 
and  immediately  process  in  water  bath. 
Where  elevation  is  4000  feet,  9  minutes  are
