[Vol7 | January 1920 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Beyond Sareth Nephi Anderson]

Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. (Continued) IV. I think it was on the tenth day that I forgot to wind my watch, and in consequence, I became somewhat lost as to time and direction. I thought, however, that I still drifted northward. There was very little ice to be seen, and in fact, my own piece had diminished considerably. I now began to think seriously of launching my boat in case the ice block should break up. One day after I had awakened from a long sleep;  I thought I saw land to the northward. It was so much like low, black clouds on the horizon, that I did not have much hope;  but there was no change in them which there would have been, had they been clouds. So my hope became stronger as the hours passed. If that was land I must try to reach it. nspected the boat closely. It was a good sized one, strong and fully rigged with oars and a mast and sail if necessary. I could row fairly well, and might manage to use the sail in fair breezes. I had axes and other tools. A crack came which, snapping in the ice nearly up to my camp, made me hasten to work. I cut a groove in the ice from the boat to the water and with the aid of a lever managed to move the boat a few inches at each push. It was slow work but at last I had the boat close to the water. I lost no time in loading, placing on board everything that I thought would be of use to me. I had provisions enough for a month, but the question of fresh water compelled me to remain on the ice for twenty-four hours longer melting ice by the oil lamp for water to till a good sized cask. Then, when all was ready, I pushed the boat into the water and jumped in. There was a fair breeze, I judged from the east, and I carefully hoisted the sail, steering as near to the wind as I dared. For a good many hours, I made progress. Then the wind freshened and I had to lower my sail somewhat. In time, the wind changed to quite a gale and veered around so that it blew straight from what I supposed was the land which I was seeking. I then had to lower the sail completely, and do what I could with the oars to keep my boat from driving too much and being filled with the 
 waves. For a time the gale continued and the sea rolled high. To get a little sleep was the worst, and I believe a good many twenty-four hours went by with me watching and working during the twenty. It seems to me now, that again I ought to have given up as lost, but I did not. True, I became very tired and worn out, but I did not lose hope. I may as well acknowledge it here, that a higher power had charge of me, and was shaping events. After a time the wind ceased again and then I rowed and rowed. I was getting weak, but the land appeared to get a trifle nearer, and that gave me hope. Soon I had the sail up again, and then I made better progress. I could now see the outlines of rounded hills — I was sure of it. As I drew nearer, they became bolder, and rocky points pierced the blue sky. I could see no trace of snow on them, which surprised me exceedingly. Then at last I sailed up under the lee of high, precipitous cliffs. I sought for a place to land, but everywhere there was nothing but sheer rock to the water. I skirted the cliffs for a whole day before I found an opening into the land. By taking in the sail and rowing carefully, I managed to slip into a small cove, where a smooth, sandy beach reached inland some distance. The first thing I did on landing, was to securely fasten the boat, and then lie down in it and go to sleep. I slept a good long time, I am sure. I felt much better after it, and then I ate a good meal. My water was getting low, and my first thought was to search for more. Leaving everything in the boat, I climbed up over the hills. All was rock — not a vestige of soil or vegetation. At some distance up, I looked out over the water and saw the white ice in the distance. It seemed to be coming nearer, but, that, I thought, was due to me climbing. I toiled upwards a good many hours but I found nothing but rock. Looking down again at the sea. I was now sure the ice was setting in rapidly towards the shore. I was fearful of my boat, so I hurried down again. I reached the shore, barely before the ice. It came on with a dull crushing roar and pitted itself against the rocks. My boat was somewhat protected, but I hastily carried some of the most valuable articles up the hills out of reach of the advancing ice. With terrific power the ice-jam crushed against the rocks as if it would dislodge the very mountains. The ice rose higher and higher. As far as I could see, it was coming on. I had barely gotten away from my third trip to the boat, when a great rush of ice tumbled into the cove, filling it up completely. My boat was crushed, and lay buried under a great mass of ice. BEYOND ARSARETH 23 The water over which I had just come was open no more. As far as I could see there was a mass of moving ice, in which the strongest ship that was ever built could not have lived;  and here was I. A path had been made for me, and I had passed safely through to this strange, new land lying, I was sure, close to the Pole. For me there was no retreat. I would have to move upward and over the mountain if I moved at all. What I had saved from the boat was not much. There was a good sized bag of provisions, a small keg with a little water in, a bundle of blankets and my traveler's grip. It was to stay with me it seems and I picked it up on my third and last visit to the boat (and glad I am that it was rescued) or this precious paper that I am writing on would not have been at my service, besides a number of other priceless articles — priceless, now, though a few months ago worth a few cents only. I took a blanket from the bundle and wrapped in it provisions to last a week. Tying it around with a piece of rope, I slung the pack over my shoulders. I, no doubt, looked like another Christian fleeing from a city of destruction to another Holy City. If so, these were the Delectable mountains of rest and from which I would see the place of rest and peace — so ran my thoughts for a time. For many hours I traveled. The hills were not steep in places, and I chose the gradual ascents. For a long distance up I could see that the ice had been there, polishing the' flocks into smooth, rounded surfaces.  At this time I made a guess at direction and placed riley' watch at twelve o'clock noon. I could see that the sun was sinking nearer the horizon. It must have been nearly the close of the month of August. The bare hills stretched northward as far as I could see. All the first day I traveled at a good rate, and then rested for a few hours near a pool of water in the rocks. Then on I went again over one hill and then another. As I advanced, I saw that there were signs of soil and vegetation, and this gave me courage. The next stopping place I spread my blanket on some soft, moss-like grass and slept well. Again, the next day I went on. The air was quite warm, so much so I had to take off my coat and place it on my bundle. Though it appeared to me that I was traveling upward, the effect on me was quite the reverse. The air seemed much heavier, and warmer it certainly became. Now there was an abundance of grass and moss, and as I went on, small bushes appeared. There were birds in the air, but I saw no living creature on the earth. On the evening of the fourth day o*f my walk, I was quite 
 tired. I had found no water all day, and I had decided that I would have to make a "dry camp" that night. The hills seemed to have fallen away towards the north, as I could see none beyond the elevation just in front of me. I struggled on to the summit of the ridge, where lo! the hills were gone and before me lay a large open plain or valley. The prospect appeared to me as an immense basin. I could see down, down into its depths and perceived that my journey would be downward for a long distance. I had learned at school that the earth was flattened at the Poles, but here it appeared that this flattening had assumed a concave surface. If so, the earth's surface here would be near the great central heat, thus greatly tempering the climate. I could also see that the rays of the sun would fall much more vertically on the sloping sides of this basin, than on the level land. I could see no signs of habitation near at hand, but the distance was dim with a faint haze which might be smoke. If there was smoke, there was fire, and if fire, man, in some stage of civilization. Certainly if the country over which I was looking remained as green and inviting as it did then for a few months in the year, it would support human life. This I must find out, and as soon as possible. A short distance down the slope I found a spring of water at which I quenched my thirst, and then went on. I followed the streamlet from the spring, but I found that it soon sank into the earth and disappeared. This, I found, was true of all the streams which I saw. The earth seemed to be extremely porous, and although there was plenty of moisture in the ground, it did not accumulate into any large streams. Then I rested again. Once more I would sleep and get strength, for on the morrow I must find human aid if I was to prolong my existence. I ate sparingly of my food for fear that it would not last until I could get some more. As I wrapped myself in my blanket and lay down on a grassy bank, the sun sailed around to the north, but it did not penetrate the land lying in the depths below, so that I could see any distinct forms. Then thought I, what if there were no human habitations in this land. How long could I live on the vegetable and animal life which I might find. Were I another Robinson Crusoe, greatly handicapped? Thinking about these things I dropped asleep. I did not sleep well. A number of times I was disturbed, and at last I was fully awake. I thought I heard noises resembling the bleating of sheep, and the shouting of men. I sprang hurriedly to my feet. A mist hung over the land below so that I could not see but I could plainly hear. I gathered my effects and walked down the hill side. A large cliff of BEYOND ARSARETH 2S rocks soon stopped my further progress. It was very steep and a good long distance to the base, so I was compelled to make a long detour and do some careful climbing before I reached the somewhat level land below. I soon found myself in a lovely country. The hills were rolling, but the general slope appeared to be northward. There was an abundance of grass and the brush assumed larger growth. I heard a song bird in a clump of bushes and I saw a number of small animals resembling rabbits. The air was mild and the sun, sailing around into the southern sky, soon became warm. Then again I heard the bleating of sheep;  I was sure of it this time. I hurried forward as the sounds came from a valley under the cliff where I had rested. Form a knoll I saw a small herd of sheep. They were grazing quietly over the green hillside. I sat down and looked at these sheep. I knew now that I was saved. I knew that I had come into a habitable land. These sheep were not wild. They would furnish food and clothing to human beings. I saw no shepherd, and I could see that the sheep were scattering boldly. I went among them and they were not afraid. Then I heard a shout from the direction of the cliff. I listened, but could hear no words. The shout came again and I walked in that direction. I wonder now that I did not think of danger. If there were human beings there, they might be savage. I was not armed, but fear seemed altogether foreign to me. I walked boldly in the direction of the calls. They sounded like cries for help now and I quickened my steps. (To be continued) I RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK.  I Ready for Sale January 1, 1920.  I Music Arranged and Compiled by Brigham Cecil Gates. A collection of hymns, old and new, choruses, I quartettes, trios, duets and solos, arranged especially for women's. voices. I Books carried only at Relief Society Headquarters. Price, 75 cents each, net. Address all orders to Amy Brown Lyman,  I General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building,  I Salt Lake City, Utah