Revolutionary Patriots.

Born both in the month of January, Eliza, on January 21, 1804, Zina, January 31, 1821, these two heroines and patriots were destined to travel life's thorny, yet glorious, way side by side. Both were descendants of revolutionary fathers, both were intensely loyal to country and to God. Both joined the Church in early girlhood, both pioneered in Kirtland, in Nauvoo, and in Utah. Both were sealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and both were afterwards married to President Brigham Young. Both were workers in the Endowment House, both were sent out to reorganize the Relief Society in the late 50's and early 60's by President Young. Both later occupied the position of President of the General Board of the Relief Society and both women were respected and revered by every Latter-day Saint woman, and their memories today are sacredly enshrined in our hearts.

Eliza R. Snow was highly intellectual, a leader and an organizer par excellence. Zina D. H. Young was a tender-hearted nurse and midwife to thousands of her sisters. Eliza was never a mother in the flesh, yet mothered the Church in her own stately and magnificent way. Zina was the essence of motherhood and was all heart, all soul. Eliza was an active ordinance worker in the Nauvoo temple. Zina presided in the Salt Lake temple. Both worked in the Endowment House.

Eliza organized, fostered and led out in establishing woman's co-operative stores, home industry, a hospital for women, a woman's newspaper, young ladies' organizations, a primary association for children, with constant reiteration of the necessity of economy and conservation of time, money and vitality in all activities for women and children.

Zina was placed at the head of the Silk Association and herself established the successful rearing of cocoons and turning the product into silk weaves. Both were patterns of conservation, never wasteful in word or deed, always occupied with

4 .

either hands or brain, often both, yet always calm and deliberate in the midst of life's most difficult problems. Both also saw the true meaning of serving God by serving mankind and both steadily maintained the integrity of the gospel, the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the supreme sacrifice of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Both have gone to meet their righteous and blissful reward. But when the month of January comes around our thoughts turn with loving remembrance to these two gracious and great women leaders and patriots.

President Heber C. Kimball had a very large and in many respects, a most remarkable family. He was a great prophet himself and his quiet humor, generous imagination and natural eloquence are inherited by many of his posterity. Among the brightest and most promising sons was Brigham Kimball, who died in the flower of his young manhood. Prior to his death he took a mission to Great Britain and while there he received a letter from Sister Eliza R. Snow, which contains inspiring advice just as applicable today as it was then to all young missionaries, closing with some verses written on the same theme. We give extracts here:

G. S. L. City, April 20, '66.

My Dear Young Brother:

My motherly feelings for you, and the high respect which I cherish for your honored parents, is all the apology I shall offer for presuming to address a young gentleman uninvited. No language with which I am acquainted, is sufficient to express the deep interest I feel, not only for yourself as an individual, but for the all-important work in which you are engaged.

I have been favored with perusal of some of your letters; they are very interesting. I love the spirit in which they are written and I like your natural and easy style of writing. You find yourself in a school, and thus far, the anticipations of your friends are being realized, i.e., that you would not be a dull scholar. You knew nothing of the world until you went forth as a messenger of salvation, to confront its errors and its traditions. With all its boast of knowledge, how little true knowledge it possesses!

Salt Lake City was quite a mixture before you left; it is getting more and more so. But withal, it is astonishing to see how the Priesthood moves on in its imperial majesty, carrying out the purposes of the Most High, regardless of Satan and his imps. It is very gratifying to the Saints to look on and see how the Lord handles our enemies. This is one of many striking instances before us. Sometimes the clouds loom up, indicative of storm, but soon again the sky is clear and all is calm.

What a lesson it is for us to watch the movements of things, and see the overruling hand of God, not only in the great and momentous occurrences, but also in the common and daily transactions of life. We should indulge in no fear but of doing wrong.

As I am a "Poetess," I will rhyme a little:

You are blest, my young brother; you're called in your youth 
To go forth to the nations a herald of Truth; 
To remove false traditions which fetter and bind 
To declare the glad tidings of peace to mankind.

If you keep yourself humble, and seek to do right, 
God will give you great wisdom and clothe you with might, 
With great knowledge and skill to outgeneral your foes, 
And you'll ne'er be confounded by them that oppose.

Hold the reins over self and its passions, secure 
"Touch not, taste not, and handle" not what is impure. 
And the favor of God will encircle you round, 
And with guerdons of honor your life will be crowned.

6 .

I have tried to cram much in a little space and fear your time and patience both will be too much taxed in deciphering my scribble. I remember you hinted something about girls all getting married before you return; now I wish to set your heart at rest on this subject. I have a number of pretty nieces; they will not all be married. I never so much wished that I had a few daughters of my own; I assure you I would hold one in reserve.

* * *

God bless you, and make you mighty through His Spirit is the prayer of

E. R. Snow.

To Brigham Kimball.

"