
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 36						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JUNE, 1907.						No. 1


CONTENTS.
								PAGE
Short Talk to the Nurses Graduating Class
	...........................Margaret C. Roberts	1
Relief Society Reports:—Nebo Stake........	2
	Liberty Stake......................................	3
	Granite Stake......................................	3
	Alpine Stake.......................................	8
Mother’s Work:—Beaver Stake.................	7
In Memoriam.............................................	3
Orbituary.......:............................................	6
Editorial:—The New Volume XXXVI.......	4
	Birthday of Brigham Young...............	4
	Reception Tendered............................	5
	Editorial Notes....................................	5
	The First Relief Society......................
	.....................................Eliza R. Snow	7
Poetry:—A June Rose.........Ruth May Fox	1
	The Rainbow.....................Anonymus	3


A JUNE ROSE.
TO SISTER MARIA WILCOX, ON HER EIGHTIETH
				BIRTHDAY.
A long, long time ago.
In the glad month of June—
The month of roses,
Tilting the bough which its beauty discloses,
Fast holding the rose where the sunbeam re-
	poses,
A shy little bud burst forth into bloom.
Oh, it was such a joy
To the roses full grown,
In patience beholding
The heart of the bud so lovely unfolding,
Their own failing freshness so grandly uphold-
	ing,
To watch the results of the seed they had
	sown.
With modesty blushing,
Our rose graced the tree,
So daintily, stately;
Wooing the birds and the zephyrs innately;
Enjoving the favor of older ones greatly,
Nodding and wond’ring what the future should
	be.
The dew’s on the roses,
They are drooping in tears;
Soft voices are calling,
The petals are falling, falling, fast falling
On their mother’s calm breast—her senses en-
	thralling,
But she gathers them close and smiles at their
	fears.
To a rose fully blown
We do honor today.
Of exquisite neatness,
Rounded and full—a corolla of sweetness:
Old rose we will call it, for sake of complete-
	ness;
A life of well-doing drives old age away.
The twilight is passing,
Dear friends gone before
Are calling, soft calling;
The petals are falling, falling, fast falling;
But the way is not long, nor dark, nor appall-
	ing,
There roses bloom ever, to wither no more,
						RUTH MAY FOX.


The Norwegian women have petitioned
Parliament for the full ballot. The peti-
tion refers to “the men of Finland, who
showed magnanimity and understanding
of modern demands” in enfranchising their
women, and urged the Parliament of
Norway to take like action.


[Column 1]
SHORT TALK TO THE NURSES GRADU-
			ATING CLASS.
	BY DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS.

President Bathsheba W. Smith and Board,
Supt. Empey and Graduating Nurses:
	I am happy this day to congratulate
you upon your success in the course of
study you have so faithfully followed, and
and the excellent examination you have
passed. You have now earned the certi-
ficate of graduation given by the General
Board of the Relief Society of the Church
and authorized to practice under the aus-
pices of this society in the profession of
nursing.
	Of the nobility, importance and res-
ponsibility of this profession, I have oft-
en spoken in our class exercises, and there
would seem to be small need of refering
to these matters again. Yet experience
in teaching and your own recollection
warrant me in saying that frequent repe-
tition is essential in order to impress the
mind with things that are to be remem-
bered. “Attention,” it is said, “is the
mother of memory;” if that be granted, I
want to add, that the child memory has
need often to be jogged by repetition in
order to retain that which the mother
has committed to it. It goes without
saying that the profession of nursing
stands out at once among the most neces-
sary and honorable of callings. This is
eyerywhere acknowledged. But it seems
to me that with the Latter-day Saints it
ought to be regarded as more emphatical-
ly true than with others, and especially
so in the case of Relief Society nurses,
because, in their labor there is to be a
dash of the religious element that does
not attach to such services in other com-
munities and with ordinary nurses.
	“I was sick and ye visited me,” is
classed by the Master as among those
charity deeds that shall be remembered
in the day of judgment of men—such as
“I was an hungered and ye gave me meat;
thirsty and ye gave me drink; a stranger
and ye took me in; naked and ye clothed
me; in prison and ye came unto me.’”
And it is predicted in that scripture that
when the righteous shall say, “Lord,
when saw we thee a stranger, or naked,
or in prison or sick and came unto thee,’’
the Lord shall answer, “In as much as
ye have done it unto the least of these
my brethren, ye have done it unto me.”
	It was in this spirit, I am sure, that it
was intended originally, and is now in-
tended that Relief Society nurses should
perform their work.
	In consequence of having received your
instruction at a mere nominal tuition,
you have entered into a signed contract
to do a certain amount of charity work
which is definitely stated. 
	But all the circumstances connected
with the arrangements by which you ac-
quire your profession, the organization
under which it has been possible for you
to receive it, the practically free service
of those who have instructed you, and

[Column 2]
those who will direct your services, al
require that on your part you carry
that same spirit of free service into your
charity work. Freely you have received,
now as freely and unselfishly give such
service as your contract calls for. If your
work is characterized by the spirit which
prompted the inauguration of this move-
ment, it will be possible for you to parti-
cipate in that welcome, “Come ye blessed
of my father . . for . . “I was sick
and ye visited me, . .  in as much as
ye did it unto the least of these, my breth-
ren, ye did it unto me.”
	I would like to sound a note of warn-
ing against professional pride that might
possibly stand in the way of the efficien-
cy and acceptability of your services.
Very naturally a finished workman feels
the necessity of his tools, and a nurse’s
well-instructed senses the need of the
furniture and appliances necessary to
provide for the comfort of her patient;
but it will often happen that those things
so necessary can not be supplied. What
shall be done under these circumstances?
Shall the nurse complain, be irritable,
emphasize the misfortunes of the poor,
increase their embarrassment? No, she
will do none of these things if she follows
the instructions that have been imparted.
The very absence of the usual appliances
and conveniences afford the nurse the
opportunity to exercise her patience, her
ingenuity in improvising means out of
such materials and conditions as are at
hand, meanwhile retaining that cheerful-
ness so essential in her work, and demon-
strating that skill that comes from the
ntelligent application of instruction that
has been received.
	But while urging upon you to follow
this course, still I must say once more,
—and for the last time to a class—that
you keep in mind always the dignity of
your profession and neyer cheapen it or
yourselves.
	A wrong view is sometimes enter-
tained in regard to the services of nurses,
especially Relief Society nurses. Some
are urging that they not only attend up-
on the sick, but also do the general
housework as well. I wish to say that
notion goes beyond what has been con-
templated in the Relief Society nurse-
movement.
	I would not like to be too technical in
relation to just what the services of the
nurse should be in the household, and
have no objection to our nurses reliev-
ing whatever situation may confront
them. No general rule can be suggested.
Each nurse must judge for herself what
she can and ought to do in each particu-
lar case. But I must say that the course
of study given these classes has not been
a course in general housekeeping, scrub-
bing and cleaning, but we have tried to
mpress the nurses with the idea that
their duty is to give every attention to
the sick ones that is required to add to
their comfort and bring them back to
health, or if this can not be, then the
utmost relief of suffering until death


[Column 1]
shall bring its relief. Any thing else a
nurse does must be secondary and inci-
dental. Our Relief Society organiza-
tions are not confined in their ministra-
tion among the poor to providing a nurse
for the sick, if other household help is
needed during the time of affliction, oth-
ers besides a nurse may be called upon
to render such assistance. But to you,
you nurses, your duty is to your patient
not to the rest of the household. Sub-
ordinate every other consideration.
	Judging from the experience of our
nurses in the past, you will be tempted
by monetary considerations to abandon
or slight your obligations as a Relief So-
ciety nurse. Let me admonish you not
to yield to such temptation. And re-
member this movement was instituted
especially to supply nurses for charity
work, and for those people who can not
afford to pay $15 or $25 a week, but who
can pay, and want to pay $3, $5 or $6 a
week. You are in honor bound to nurse
for these prices whenever it is necessary
during the time stated in your contract.
This should be regarded as missionary
service and the work should be done
skillfully, cheerfully, willingly, lovingly,
and as service in the Church of Christ,
in that spirit that should and does char-
acterize all real service rendered to hu-
manity in the name of the Master.
	Nor should this service be rendered in
any sectarian spirit—to members, of your
own church only, for, as God causes his
sun to shine on both the evil and the
good, and the rain to fall upon, the just
and the unjust alike; so should your
charity services be given. It must be
enough for you to know that there is
poverty and sickness combined and that
you are called upon in your professional
capacity to help relieve it. Time would
fail me to say all that I would desire to
say to you so anxious am I that you
should succeed and perpetuate in your
work the spirit of the Relief Society
movement that has been so dear to me
both in its inception and development
up to this time. It is an undertaking, if
I may be so bold as to say it, that is most
in keeping both with the name and the
mission of that first and what well might
be the greatest auxiliary organization of
the Church, the Relief Society.
	One other thought I feel impressed to
voice, though not immediately con-
nected with your graduation, and duties
as nurses. Some years ago, President
Brigham Young recognizing the fact that
in some departments of the physician’s
calling, namely, obstetrics and children’s
diseases, it was possible for women to
perform the service as well as, if not
even better than men physicians, and
urged a number of young women to
qualify for that profession in some of
the medical colleges in the East. In
response to this advice and encouraged
by him, several of the young Utah wo-
men went East, studied, graduated and
for some years have practiced their pro-
fession in the state. I observe, however,
that none of our young women seem
ambitious to succeed them in their work,
nor are they; so far as I know, receiv-
ing any encouragement to do so.
	Believing, hwever, in the inspiration
that prompted President Brigham Young
to move in this matter, I venture to call
attention to the subject on this occasion.
We shall soon be without lady prac-

[Column 2]
ticing physicians, so far as the Latter-
day Saints are concerned, unless steps
are taken to call others to this profes-
sion, as it requires at the very least, a
high school education in order to enter
medical colleges, and then four years to
complete the course. 
	Very properly, I think, the Relief So-
ciety, under whose auspices we are met
here to day, could take the initiative in
this matter and search out young women
who could take up this profession. 
	I feel a perfect freedom in giving en-
couragement to women to take up the
profession of medicine and of nursing,
because in doing so, I but urge them to
engage in the noblest, most useful calling
which women can follow. And this not
only because it is good to relieve suffer-
ing and nurse people from pain and sick-
ness back to ease and health, but for the
reason of the moral power these profes-
sions enable them to use. If you except
perhaps the occupation of the priest,
there is no other calling which brings
men and women into such close relation-
ship to their fellows as the ministration
of the physician and the nurse, and that
at a time when those with whom they
come in contact are in such condition as
to be influenced for good. The physical
powers are somewhat weakened, and un-
der such conditions, the mind is more
open to moral and spiritual influences
than at other times.
	During the period of illness and con-
valescence, the physician and nurse have
their opportunity for influencing for good
the lives of those who come under their
watch-care; and I am confident from both
observation and experience that there
are few who have greater chances for be-
ing a power that makes for righteousness
in this world than the conscientious God-
fearing physician. I am happy to say
that in the great majority of cases, it is
my firm conviction that the men and wo-
men of my profession avail themselves of
their opportunities and are a real moral
force in society. Nurses with opportun-
ities well-nigh equal, can be, and I be-
lieve for the most part are also a moral
power. I feel sure that this class now
graduating are capable of this high moral
service in the families and the communi-
ty where they will practice their profes-
sion. None of the classes which I have
taught and who have graduated under
the auspices of the Relief Society have
had so good opportunities as this class
and none have made better use of their
advantages. I am well satisfied with the
intellectual and moral status of these
graduates, and I am confident that they
are capable of efficiency in the practice
of their profession, and also in their abili-
ty for being moral forces whereever their
lot may be cast. To this labor so broad
in its scope, so full of possibilities for
good, I commend you, nurses, with all
my heart.
	May 13, 1907.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
the Nebo Stake Relief Socity held at Ben-
jamin meeting house, Utah, April 26,
1907. President Eliza J. Dixon presiding:
after the opening exercises, Sister Bing-
ham, President of Benjamin ward, spoke
a few words of welcome. Sister Dixon

[Column 2]
spoke of the great effort that had been
put forth in the erection of their new
meeting house, prayed for the spirit of
the Lord to be with us on this occasion,
we are working in a noble cause.
	President Wall reported Santaquin
ward. She had a band of willing sisters
to do their duty, also said that a mother’s
first duty was to her children, that she
was the only one living in that ward, that
knew the Prophet Joseph Smith, “we
should all be one in the Lord if we are
not one we are not his.”
	Sister Ferguson, President of Lake
Shore ward gave in her report, they had
a hard time in winter on account of bad
roads and their scattered condition.
	Payson, first ward, reported by Sister
Alispach, they have on hand among
other things 56 dollars missionary fund,
she enjoyed her labors in Relief Society
work, said may God help us to be faithful
and firm in the Gospel.
	Payson, second ward, President Ells-
worth said “we are engaged in the work
of the Lord.” 36 dollars missionary fund
on hand gave it to the bishop to use as
needed for the missionaries.
	Song, Lois Mace.
	Sister Evans spoke on the Relief So-
ciety conference, held in Salt Lake City,
April 4th, referred particularly to a speech
made by Sister Dusenberry and spoke of
the welcome speech by President B. W.
Smith “it was a mistake in thinking that
none but elderly sisters should belong to
the Relief Society.
	Rec. Sister Nora Hone, “Selling the
Farm.”
	Bishop Johnson said how pleased he
was to meet with the Relief Society sist-
ers, said he was not a stranger in the so-
ciety in his ward, spoke on the society
work, he had been fed and clothed by
strangers while on a mission, he did not
think that sisters could be good members
of the Church and not belong to the Relief
Society, welcomed all to his ward.
	President Dixon gave a few words of
encouragement.
	Closed by singing, “Our God we raise
to Thee.”
	Prayer by Brother Alpheus Bingham.
	2 o’clock p. m. conference reconvened.
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding. Sing-
ing, Prayer by Brother William Stewart,
singing.
	Sister Kappel of the stake presidency
gave some of the conference news, said
we should prepare ourselves for the com-
ing of the Savior, spoke of President
Jos. F. Smith’s message to the world.
	Sister Emily Bingham read a paper on
nursing and nurse work.
	Quartett by Sister Hazel Ludlow and
others.
	Paper read by Sister Morrison on
“Motherhood and Child Culture,”
	Sister Mary Brown of the Stake Board
spoke on Relief Society work.
	Patriarch Evans gave the conference
some good instructions; “it gave him
pleasure to listen to the remarks of the
sisters, spoke on race suicide and its
consequences in another life.
	Sister Dixon spoke on the 58 sec. of
Doc. and Cov.
	Closed by the choir singing an anthem,
“Sun of my soul.”
	Benediction by Brother Henry Hone.
			ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE RAINBOW.
The evening was glorious, and light through the
	trees
Played tho sunshine and rain drops, the birds and
	the breeze;
The landscape outstretching in loveliness lay
On the lap of the year, in the beauty of May.
For the Queen of the Spring, as she passed down
	the vale,
Left her robe on the trees, and her breath on the
	gale;
And the smile of her promise gave joy to the
	hours,
And fresh in her footsteps sprang herbage and
	flowers.
The skies like a banner in sunset enrolled,
O’er the west threw their splendor of azure and
	gold;
But one cloud at a distance rose dense and in-
	creased,
Till its margin of black touched the zenith and
	east.
We gazed on the scenes while around us they
	glowed,
When a vision of beauty appeared on the cloud:—
'Twas not like the Sun as at midday we view,
Nor the Moon that rolls nightly through starlight
	and blue.
Like a spirit it came in the van of the storm,
And the eye and the heart hailed its beautiful
	form;
For it looked not severe, like an Angel of Wrath,
But its garment of brightness illumed its dark
	path.
In the hues of its grandeur, sublimely it stood,
O’er the river, the village, the field and the wood;
And river, field, village and woodlands grew
	bright—
As conscious they gave and afforded delight.
’Twas the bow of Omnipotence, bent in His hand
Whose grasp at Creation the universe spanned
’Twas the presence of God, in a symbol sublime,
His vow from the flood to the exit of Time!
Not dreadful, as when in the whirlwind He
	pleads,
When storms are His chariot, and lightnings His
	steeds,
The black clouds His banner of vengeunce un-
	furled,
And thunder His voice to a guilt-stricken world.
In the breath of His presence, when thousands
	expire,
When seas boil with fury, and rocks burn with fire,
And the sword and the plague-spot with death
	strew the plain,
And vultures, and wolves, are the graves of the
	slain.
Not such was the Rainbow, that beautiful one!
Whose arch was refraction, its key-stone the Sun;
A pavilion it seemed which the Deity graced,
And Justice and Mercy met there and embraced.
Awhile and it sweetly bent over the gloom,
Like Love oe’r a death-couch, or Hope o’er the
	tomb;
Then left the dark scene; whence it slowly re-
	tired,
As if Love had just vanished, or Hope had ex-
	pired.
I gazed not alone on that source of my song;
To all who beheld it these verses belong;
Its presence to all was the path of the Lord;
Each full heart expanded, grew warm, and adored.
Like a visit—the converse of friends—or a day,
That bow, from my sight, passed forever away;
Like that visit, that converse, that day—to my
	heart—
That bow from remembrance can never depart.
’Tis a picture in memory distinctly defined,
With the strong and unperishing colors of mind;
A part of my being beyond my control,
Beheld in that cloud, and transcribed in my soul.
							ANONYMOUS


Mme. Marie Cazin, the widow of the
eminent landscape painter, and Mme.
Madeleine Lemaire, have been elected
members of the “New” Salon jury.


[Column 1]
		R. S. EEPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the
Liberty Stake Relief Society convened
in the 2nd ward meetinghouse. June 7,
1907, at ten a. m. and 2 p. m., President
Annie S, Musser presiding. After the
usual opening exercises, including the
Temple work, 61 persons officiated for,
the 7th, and 3rd and 8th wards were re-
ported as being in a prosperous condi-
tion.
	Miss Kenner favored us with a solo,
and Sister Joaanna Angel read an editor-
ial from the Woman’s Exponent.
	The missionaries, Sisters Emma Carter,
Martha Nolan and Sarah Swift, gave us
some good instruction, and were followed
by President Annie S. Musser, Counselors
Zerviah G. Eardley and Mary E. Hodg-
son, who spoke of their visit to all the
aged, sick and afflicted in the stake, also
gave some good advice and words of en-
couragement to all present. After sing-
ing and benediction, conference adjourned
until 2 o’clock. At the afternoon session
we had Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry and
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie of the General
Board with us. After singing “Come let
us anew,” and prayer by Sister Martha
Morris, Miss Ball favored us with a solo.
	Counselor Hodgson presented the
names of the General Board also the
names of the Stake Board; all were unan-
imously sustained.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry said that
she enjoyed Relief Society work, urged
the mothers to gain the love and confid-
ence of their ehildren while they are
young, related incidents of neglected
childhood that we might help to avert.
	Sister Mary A. H. White gave a sketch
of the life of her father, Apostle Orson
Hyde, which was very interesting and
much enjoyed.
	President Musser gave a synopsis of the
work performed by the Stake Board
and the Relief Society in the several
wards. Sister Phebe Y. Beatie felt that
Latter-day Saints had more temptations
to overcome than any other people and
especially the young. Let us strive to
guide them by love, also to cultivate
patience.
	Sister Sarah Mitchell had been called
to work among the young people by the
priesthood, especially those without
homes or parents in the city, made a
few remarks in regard to the work.
	The Relief Society excursion to Saltair
was announced. Minutes of the confer-
ence were read and accepted. After sing-
ing and benediction by Sister Lizzie Rob-
bins, conference adjourned for six
months.
			LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.

		GRANITE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Granite
stake Relief Society was held on Tuesday,
June 11th, at the Stake Tabernacle at 10
a. m. President E. S. Woodruff presid-
ing.
	There were present, three members of
the General Board, 17 stake, and a large
number of local officers, and members.
	President E. S. Woodruff related some
interesting incidents of her life, and her
experiences in Nauvoo, and her journey
“across the plains.”
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry of the Gen-

[Column 2]
eral Relief Society gave an eloquent ad-
dress, on the responsibilities of parents
in the training of their children, and Sis-
ter Sarah J. Cannon also spoke on the
same subject.
	The beautiful singing by the Emerson
ward Relief Society choir, added greatly
to the pleasure of the meeting.
	A dainty lunch was served to the visit-
ors by the members of the stake board
between meetings.
	The afternoon program was a continua-
tion of the “Lives of our leaders,” a feat-
ure which has become very popular in our
conferences during the past two years.
“The Life of Jedediah M. Grant” being
the subject chosen.
	We were favored with the presence of
Apostle Heber J. Grant, Elder B. F.
Grant, Sister Rachel Grant and many
others of the descendants of Pres. J. M.
Grant. Apostle Grant took charge of the
meeting and also led the singing.
	A biographical Sketch was read by Sis-
ter Dessie Grant, in which Bro. Grant
was characterized as a great preacher of
righteousness, an ardent missionary of the
church, as well as a General of the Nau-
voo Legion, and Indian fighter, 1st Mayor
of Salt Lake City, and a faithful good
man, “faithful, unto death.”
	Elder B. F. Grant spoke of his father’s
missionary labors in the Southern States,
and related some amusing incidents con-
nected with his work there. Apostle
Heber J. Grant paid a high tribute to the
loyalty of his father to the truth, and of
his great boldness in proclaiming his be-
lief at all times, of his ardent labors dur-
ing the “Reformation” in Utah. Said
that having goodly parents was a great
blessing.
	An excellent musical program was ren-
dered by the “Grant” family as follows:
	Trio. “Lullaby” Misses Edith, Florence,
and Mary Grant.
	Duett. “Little Boy Blue” Misses Emily
and Frances Grant.
	Solos were sung by Miss Edith Grant,
Apostle H. J. Grant, Mrs. Lutie G. Can-
non, and Florence Grant, accompanied
by Miss Mary Grant.
	Piano Solo by Miss Grace Grant.
	Elder B. Morris Young, Jr., who re-
cently turned from Europe favored us
with a delightful violin solo, accompanied
by Miss Ida Whittaker.
	Sister Rachel Grant spoke on her past
life and her early experiences in Nauvoo.
	After benediction conference was ad-
journed three months.
				LUCY M. GREEN.


IN MEMORIAM.
	On the 22nd day of March, 1907, our dear
sister and friend, Emma, the beloved wife of John
B. Pratt of Hinckley, departed this life. She left
a family of a husband and six children, the eldest
a girl of about thirteen years.
	Sister Emma’s death cast a gloom over the
whole community, as everyone that knew her
loved her sweet and sunny disposition, She was
on hand at every call, and true and faithful to
every trust. 
	She was born at Lehi, August 31st 1876, Died
at Provo hospital, March 22nd, 1907. Although
we miss her at our gatherings, yet we do not
mourn as those without hope, for we feel that when
the Lord makes up his jewels we shall meet our
dear sister again. May God grant it.
				CATHARINE A. ALLRED,
					Sec. Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

				Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake C y, Utah 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy s x month
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers del v
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
secon

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		JUNE, 1907.


[Column 1]
	THE NEW VOLUME XXXVI.
	This number is the initial one of an-
other volume of our little paper, and as
these are times of great progress in the
Reliel Society, and among women gener-
ally, and more especially the women of
our own Church, it would seem essential
that the sisters should renew and increase
the subscriptions, that a greater interest
might be taken in making it more than
ever, truly representative of the magnific-
ent work in which the women of Zion are
taking part.
	President Brigham Young said to the
editor, “Make the sisters understand that
it is their record, their history, and let it
be preserved as such;” biographies of the
celebrated women of the Church, was
one of the subjects he insisted upon hav-
ing published. A large number of these
have been written and are on record for
reference; during the past year in connec-
tion with the mothers’ work, these histor-
ies of our departed sisters, and of some
who are living now, have been studied
and brought before the society in many
wards, so that numbers of our women,
who had only heard the names of these
remarkable characters, who were asso-
ciated with the founding of the Church in
this dispensation, have learned of their
lives and what they passed through, in
the days of the early struggles for the
establishment of what is now so great an
organization as the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. Every phase of
the real public work of our women has
been duly recorded in this little paper;
and the books are kept, they have been
bound in volumes by some of the sisters,
and might have been by many others had
they taken a little care to preserve
them.
	It is wefl for the sisters to realize that
they are making history all the time, as
the days and months and years roll on;
so that even if books were written they
only cover a certain period; but a paper
or periodical carries forward what is be-
ing done on and on, Perhaps there are
some of our sisters who have never given
this idea a thought, but when they want
some particular fact or item on a subject
in which they are especially interested
then they enquire where such material
can be found. There is seldom a day in
the office of this paper, that there are not
inquiries made concerning past events, or
circumstances relating to woman’s work

[Column 2]
that necessitate reference to the Expon-
ent; and letters from all quarters (one
might almost say) that must be replied
to if the information can be obtained by
hunting through bound volumes.
	This is only a hint to the sisters, who
are not in a position to know about these
things. In view of the great good that
has been done in the past since the paper
first came into existence, and in consider-
ation of the greater and much more im-
portant future, we trust the sisters of the
Relief Society in all the several stakes of
Zion and in all the wards of the stakes,
will take hold of the matter and see what
can be done to maintain what is to each
one of them, and to every woman in Zion
a repository of the actual philanthropic
and religious work done by themselves as
a great organization, the very greatest and
grandest there is anywhere.
	It is difficult amid the accumulation of
cares and duties that come into every day
of the lives of these dear sisters, to dwell
upon the vast magnitude of the work in
general, and to think of their own share in
it, yet each one is an essential factor of
the great whole; and each member of the
society, which was organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith himself for the
betterment of the women of Zion, as well
as for the amelioration and care of the
sick and the needy, is uplifted in the best
sense of the word by the furtherance of
the work in its increasing magnitude and
power for the good of communities, and
society at large in all the places where a
foothold has been obtained to introduce
the Gospel.
	If it were possible to speak to each in-
dividual woman and impress each one
with the vast importance of the Relief
Society, in a “heart to heart talk,” one
might then hope for successful results;
however such personal conversation is not
possible for any one, however deeply one
may be impressed, therefore it rests with
those of our sisters who appreciate the
Exponent, fully realizing what it might
be to our sisters in the great future, to do
what is possible in each ward to awaken
an interest in the matter, so that they
shall not have any delinquencies or irreg-
ularities in the issue of the paper, and
that will in itself render it of much more
valuable assistance to the Society.
	There are those dear sisters who have
never faltered in their allegiance, and
who always pay promptly and in advance,
notably Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, Sis-
ter Jane S. Richards, Sister Julia C.
Howe, Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon and
Sister Eliza R. Snow, who together with
President Brigham Young was instru-
mental in founding the paper, used to pay
every year in advance for two copies; we
mention these facts to show how desirous
these good, faithful sisters are to have the
paper better supported.
	There are other women outside of our
Society and Church who take the paper
and pay for it, and think it worth the
while, and possibly our readers all know
there are those in missions and afar off,
who need the paper in their work and
whose circumstances are such that they
are entitled to have it sent to them free.
In fact, the Woman’s Exponent travels
far into many countries, and into many
homes of the lowly and of the high-born.
Women of distinction in literary circles,
authors and writers have spoken in com-
plimentary terms of it, and even men,

[Column 3]
who have traveled far and wide, have
commended it as containing nothing ob-
jectionable, as they say “all American
papers do,” meaning sensational matter,
scandals and divorces, etc.
	Certainly the Woman’s Exponent has
been a benefit and help to the women of
Zion, and let us hope and believe that as
there is now a much wider field open for
advancement along many lines that it
may have increased influence, by the
larger encouragement in the increase of
patronage.


BIRTHDAY OF BRIGHAM YOUNG.
	The first day of June, Saturday, 1907,
was the anniversary of the birthday of
President Brigham Young, and according
to the custom which has been established
many years now, a large gathering of the
Young family was held in honor of the
memory of this great pioneer-founder of
Utah, its first governor and for thirty
years President of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, a longer ad-
ministration than that of any other Presi-
dent.
	The people of this Western country, all
of them, should honor the memory of
Brigham Young; he it was who sought
out these valleys, who lead the people as
a veritable Moses out of the boundaries
of civilization, and who, under the
inspiration of the Lord made it possible
for thousands to come hither and find
homes and protection. His wisdom and
prudence in devising and calculating the
whole scheme of converting the then
arid desert into habitable cities and towns
with every advantage essential for the
growth and maintenance of family life,
and vegetation of the greatest variety,
are apparent to all those who knew the
man, the great master-mind.
	It is true he was surrounded with great
men, with stalwarts possessing the pion-
eer spirit, but the fact still remains that
in any question arising among them, they
all looked to him, and yielded to his
superior judgment. His capacity to see
what was necessary to be done in making
the country fruitful to the highest degree
in all that was essential in the preserva-
tion of life of man and beast was marvel-
ous.
	Too much honor cannot be shown by
his posterity and those who have par-
taken of the blessings of this Western
civilization. However his works praise
him everywhere, all about us “he lives
in deeds,” is emphatically true of Brigham
Young. He had many honorable titles,
but his name wherever it is spoken is a
eulogy in itself. Foremost among those
who assembled at Wandemere on that
day and who were called upon to speak to
the people, was our present great and
inspired leader, President Joseph F.
Smith, who paid the highest tribute to
the memory of Brigham Young that it is
possible for one great man to pay to
another. It was a powerful discourse
and his eloquence appealed to the
assembled multitude as that of no other
man could have done. Many of those
present had never known Brigham
Young personally and the time is not far
distant when there will be very few who
knew him intimately, as many do who
are now living.


There were a great number of his pos-
terity there on that occasion and it is
hoped they listened to the words of the
great leaders of the Church who addressed
them, telling of his magnanimous work
for the good of Israel and of humanity;
a philanthropist of the highest order, a
benefactor to all the world was Brigham
Young.
	These annual gatherings of the poster-
ity of the men who have been instru-
mental in building up the country, and
making “the desert blossom as the rose,”
should be perpetuated, that their children
and children’s children, down to the latest
generation may honor them; and that all
who have derived benefits through the
efforts of these noble men, who gave
their lives and the best of their manhood
to make this country desirable for free-
dom, protection, civil and religious liber-
ty for all law-abiding citizens, should
know to whom they are indebted for
these great blessings, that their names
may be engraven on the tablets of mem-
ory imperishable throughout all time.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RECEPTION TENDERED.
	On Tuesday, June 11, 1907, the newly
installed officers of the Relief Society of
Davis county honored the retiring presi-
dent, Sister Susan Grant, and her Board
at Farmington in a most superb and en-
joyable way. The meeting house was
fragrant with the perfume of roses and
other flowers. At eleven in the morning
a meeting was held with religious exer-
cises and suitable program rendered. An
original song by Sister Lucy A. Clark was
sung, and each paper read or address
made was complimentary in the best
sense of Sister Grant and her fellow
workers, Sisters Jane Holt, Wealthy A.
Clark and Phebe Sessions, who had la-
bored so long and diligently in the inter-
est of the Relief Society in Davis stake.
	PresidentsHyrum Grant and James Eld-
redge were on the stand, which was well
filled with representative women of the
stake, including both the retiring officers
and the newly appointed ones. There
were twe sisters from Salt Lake City—
Sisters E. B. Wells and J. P. M. Farns-
worth, who both spoke of the praisewor-
thy life and labors of Sister Grant in
eulogistic terms; Sister Wells read a poem
written in her honor, entitled “After
Many Years.” After the program, which
consisted of one selection from each ward
in the stake, address, paper, poem, etc.,
the president, Minerva E. R. Knowlton,
with a very modest but heartfelt speech,
presented the late president and officers
with handsome gifts, appropriately chos-
en, from the sisters for whom they had
labored so long, Sister Grant having offici-
ated as president twenty-one years last
January.
	After the close of the exercises the
guests all repaired to the Lagoon, where
a sumptuous banquet was partaken of,
and greatly enjoyed by all, and the most
delightful interchange of friendliness par-
ticipated in during the afternoon.
	It is indeed most commendable to hon-
or in some such way, while they are still
living,those who have striven so long and
so unselfishly for the good of others. It
is a beautiful custom to pay homage to
those worthy sisters whose days have
been passed in labors of fove.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	The General Officers of the Primary As-
sociation gave a delightful reception at 
the Lion House on Saturday evening, 
June 8, 1907, to the visiting officers from 
various stake organizations and also en-
tertained as guests the First Presidency 
of the Church and Apostles with their 
wives, and the General Officers of the 
Relief Society. It was a unique affair, 
the exercises in harmony with the objects 
of the society itself, such as appeal to 
children. There was excellent music, 
some fancy dancing, and also quadrilles, 
etc., a few hymns were sung as solos, the
evening’s entertainment opened and 
closed with prayer. Bouquets of flowers 
were presented to the president, Louie B. 
Felt, who wtth her luxuriant white hair 
gracefully arranged, and dignified manner, 
made a charming picture in the midst of 
the festivity. Truly the children of Zion
have excellent training by these noble 
women who are devoting their lives to
the work for the little ones. Miss May 
Anderson, who has been many years
an effiicient assistant to Mrs. Felt, had 
charge of the evening’s program.
	Mrs. John Groesbeck gave a very 
charming lunch party for her mother, Mrs. 
Margaret Clawson, at her handsome new 
home on First street, on Saturday after-
noon, May 23. Everything was in excel-
lent taste, and the menu was delicious and 
daintily served. Beautiful flowers ex-
quisitely arranged, and more than all the 
dear, delightful social intercourse of old-
time friends. We are very grateful to
Mrs. Groesbeck and her sisters who helped
her to honor her mother and her mother’s
friends, and to give them such a pleasant 
opportunity to meet and greet each other 
once again as in former days. Mrs. Mar-
garet Clawson has always been a great 
favorite in home circles, where the best 
of real sociability is realized as coming 
from the heart. 
	On Friday, May 31, an afternoon tea
was given at the beautiful residence of 
Mrs. Lou Groesbeck McCune, her mother,
Mrs. Ann D. Groesbeck joining with her 
in giving their mutual friends an exceed-
ingly pleasant afternoon. The home is 
dainty in all its appointments, and the 
mother and daughter delightfully hospit-
able and entertaining. One recalls at such 
times the “Pennsylvania Dilworths,”
who were noted for giving exquisite din-
ners in olden times at Nauvoo and in 
early days in the valley, when luxuries 
were not so plentiful as nowadays. In 
such companionship it is difficult to know 
how time goes, but suffice to say it flies 
all too quickly. 
	The Daughters of the Pioneers met in 
the Lion House, Wednesday, June 26, 
before closing for summer vacation, at 3
p.m., the usual hour, and were favored 
with some notable guests. President F.
M. Lyman and wife, U. S. Senator Reed
Smoot and Apostle Heber J. Grant. Each 
of these famous men occupied a few mo-
ments in reminiscences of early pioneer 
life in the west. There were also present 
Janet Young Easton and Rosalie Kimball
Edwards; Sister Easton, the daughter of 
the great pioneer Brigham Young and his 
wife Clara Decker Young, who accom-
panied him on that memorable journey in
1847; Sister Edwards the daughter of an-
other great pioneer, Heber C. Kimball

[Column 2]
and his wife Ellen Saunders Kimball, who 
accompanied him en route on that mem-
orable journey in 1847; the wife of Elder 
Lorenzo D. Young was the only other 
woman with this first company of pion-
eers. There are none of them living now, 
but there are still a few women living 
who came with the large company that 
followed the pioneers the same year, a[-]d 
two of them were present at this meeting
—Sister Ann Cannon Woodbury, then a 
young girl, and Sister Louisa Nor[-]s
Decker, who was only a child, but who 
was old enough to remember the brutal 
killing of her father by the mob in Nau-
voo, her mother’s death following a few 
weeks after, leaving her to be cared for 
by strangers. The day was interesting in 
many ways, and the “Daughters” may con-
gratulate themselves on a very successful 
year. A committee was appointed to take 
in hand and devise methods for organizing
a larger association of all the sons and 
daughters of the early pioneers, that might 
hold annual gatherings on the 24th of July.


THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY.
		BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
	According to authentic testimony an
organization of which the present (Fe-
male) Relief Society is a fac-simile, has
always existed when the Church of Jesus
Christ has been fully organized. “Elect
Lady,” as it occurs in the New Testament,
has direct reference to the same, alluding
to one who presided over this institution.
(See 2d Epistle of John, 1st verse.)
	The first organization of this society in
the present dispensation was effected on
the 17th of March, 1842, by Joseph Smith,
President of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, assisted by other
prominent Elders. His apology for de-
ferring the organization till that period
was the great pressure of duties, labors
and responsibilities which devolved upon
him. By his suggestion a meeting was
appointed in the Masonic Hall and a lim-
ited number invited.
	Nauvoo Lodge Room, March 17, 1842,
Elder John Taylor was called to the chair
and Elder Willard Richards appointed
secretary.
	The meeting commenced by singing
“The Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
and prayer by Elder Taylor.
	It was moved by President Smith
and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland that a
vote be taken to know if all are satisfied
with each female present, and are willing
to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the privileges of the
institution about to be formed. The vote
was unanimous.
	President Smith addressed the meeting
to illustrate the object of the Society;
that the Society of sisters might provoke
to good works in looking after the wants
of the poor, searching after objects of
charity, etc., to assist by correcting the
morals and strengthening the virtues of
the female community, and save the El-
ders the trouble of rebuking, etc. He pro
posed that the sisters elect a presiding
officer, choose two counselors that he
would ordain them and let them pre-
side over the society just as the Presiden-
cy preside over the Church; and, if they
need his instruction, ask him and he
would give it from time to time; and let
this presidency serve as a constitution.


[Column 1]
	If any officers are wanted to carry out
the designs of the institution, let them
be appointed and set apart as deacons,
teachers, etc., are among us. The min-
utes of your meetings will be precedents
for you to act upon.
	He then suggested the propriety of
electing a presidency to continue in office
during good behavior or so long as they
shall fill the office with dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Whitney and sec-
onded by Mrs. Packard that Mrs. Emma
Smith be chosen president; passed unani-
mously.
	On suggestion of President Smith, the
presidentess elect make choice of Mrs.
Sarah M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth
Ann Whitney for counselors. 
	After which, the ceremony of ordina-
tion was performed. When President
Smith resumed his remarks, giving in-
structions how to govern themselves in
their meetings, what order to observe,
how to regulate discussions, etc., and
concluded by saying “Do not injure the
character of any one; if members of the
society shall conduct improperly, deal
with them and keep all your doings with-
in your own bosoms, and hold all charac-
ters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that Elder Tay-
lor vacate the chair, and President Em-
ma Smith and her counselors take the
chair.
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by
President Joseph Smith, that we go
into an investigation respecting what this
Society shall be called, which was carried
unanimously.
	(The discussion, which was lengthy and
interesting, is wholly omitted.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was appoined secretary, and Miss Phebe
M. Wheeler, assistant secretary, and Miss
Elvira A. Coles (the late Mrs. Holmes),
treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith said “I now
declare this society organized with Presi-
dent and Counselors, etc., according to
parliamentary usages, and all who shall
hereafter be admitted into this society
must be free from censure and received
by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting by
saying that he was much gratified in see-
ing a meeting of this kind in Nauvoo; his
heart rejoiced when he saw the most dis-
tinguished characters stepping forth in a
cause which is calculated to bring into
exercise every virtue, and give scope to
the benevolent feelings of the female
heart; he rejoiced to see this institution
organized according to the law of heaven;
his prayer was that the blessings of God
and the peace of heaven may rest upon
this institution henceforth.
	After singing “Now let us Rejoice,”
the meeting adjourned for one week.
	Dismissed by prayer.
	Before retiring, each gentleman pres-
ent gave a liberal donation to commence
the funds of the institution.
	The following lines were found written
on a scrap of paper and lying on an open
Bible in the room where, and at the time
when, the society was organized, which
have been carefully preserved and tran-
scribed as an appropriate frontispiece to
the F. R. S. Book of Records:
	“O Lord, help our widows and fatherless chil-
dren! So mote it be. Amen. With the SWORD 
and the WORD of TRUTH, defend Thou them. So
mote it be. Amen.”

[Column 2]
When organized the society consisted
of eighteen members, inclusive of its offi-
cers. This number augmented from time
to time until at the close of the fiscal year,
it amounted to 1158. The meetings were so
large that the largest hall in the city was
densely crowded and it became necessary
to adjourn to the Grove the usual place
in the summer for holding Sabbath meet-
ings, which was provided with a suitable
stand and a supply of seats for large as-
semblies.
	The society soon became so popular
that even those of doubtful character in
several instances applied for admission,
and to prevent imposition by extending
membership to such ones inadvertently,
stricter rules were adopted than seemed
requisite at first. Each one wishing to
join the Society was required to present
a certificate of her good moral character
signed by two or more responsible
persons.
	The meetings were opened and closed
with prayer, and systematic order was
observed throughout. In each meeting
reports were given by those whose duty
it was to visit from house to house and in-
quire into the circumstances of the sick
and destitute—donations were received
and those subjects discussed which ap-
pertain to woman’s duties, influence and
responsibilities, etc., whatever has a ten-
dency to benefit and elevate society at
home and abroad.
	Frequently President Joseph Smith,
Bishop N. K. Whitney and brethren of
the Twelve met with the sisters and
through the inspiration of the Spirit of
God, imparted rich counsel and intelli-
gence; instructing not only in duties con-
cerning the poor, but also in all the rela-
tions of life, as wives, mothers, daugh-
ters, sisters, as Saints of the Most High,
our duties to one another, and our res-
ponsibilities as examples to the world, etc.
	The first winter after the Society was
organized was exceedingly cold and se-
vere. Many in consequence of exposure
and hardship in their expulsion from the
state of Missouri and the unhealthiness
of the climate of Nauvoo, had been re-
duced by sickness to destitution and had
it not been for the timely aid of the F.
R. Society would have suffered very
much and probably some would have
perished.
	About the last of July, 1842, when
some of the officials of Missouri were tak-
ing measures to drag President Joseph
Smith from Illinois by an illegal process,
the F. R. Society sent a petition to
Thomas Carlin, governor of Illinois in
behalf of President Smith, claiming his
protection as chief magistrate. The pe-
tition was signed by every member of the
society, and presented by its President,
Mrs. Emma Smith, accompanied by Mrs.
Amanda Smith and Miss E. R. Snow.
The governor’s residence was in Quincy,
fifty miles south from Nauvoo.
	The following is transcribed from my
journal written after my return: E. R. S.
	“The governor received us with much cordiality
and politeness as his excellency was master of, as-
suring us of his protection by saying that the laws
and constitution of our country shall be his polar
star in case of any difficulty. He manifested
much friendship, and it remains for time and cir-
cumstance to prove the sincerity of his protesta-
tions.”
	We subsequently ascertained that at

[Column 3]
the very time that the ladies of Nauvoo
were visiting him presenting the petition
and listening to his protestations of friend-
ship and love for legal right and justice,
his emissaries were engaged in secret
plotting in his behalf against the rights
and safety of President Smith, and aiding
the unprincipled blood-hounds of Mis-
souri. But whatever the result, the F.
R. Society had made a noble effort,
and it was compensated by knowing
that the great, good man, Joseph Smith
appreciated it.
	The city of Nauvoo was divided into
four wards and, after the Society became
too numerous to convene in one assem-
bly, it was decided to meet alternately
in the different wards from week to week
so as to give equal opportunities to all.
	President Joseph Smith donated a city
lot to the Society for the purpose of mak-
ing homes for the homeless, and also to
furnish work to those who were able to
work and men out of employment, which
he proposed deeding to the treasurer and
her successors in office for the Society.
He also donated the frame of a house,
and made arrangements for it to be
moved on the aforesaid lot for a com-
mencement of the establishment. But
this benevolent and judicious project,
with many others which were designed
for the amelioration of the condition of
suffering humanity, was blasted in the
bud by the blighting hand of religious
persecution, and through which the once
beautiful city of Nauvoo became a deso-
lation, and its inhabitants exiled to
Mexico.
	God, who makes the wrath of man to
praise Him, has overruled, as He ever
does, in all things for the good of them
who put their trust in Him.
	In having been driven from a city, we
have become a Territory—should have
been a State—and here the Female Re-
lief Society more amply developed than
in Nauvoo, has extended its borders in
every ward and settlement from Bear
Lake in the north to Santa Clara in the
south, and yet as seen in prospective it
has but little more than emerged from its
embryo state in comparison to its great
future.
	Published in the first numbers of the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT, June 1 and 15, 1872.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.
	Ellen Redman Hutchinson, born at Luddington
Yorkshire, England, May 17, 1833.
	Emigrated to Utah in ox teams, enduring cheer-
fully the trials and privations incident to such a
trip. She with her husband settled in Salt Lake
City, afterwards moving to Deseret, Millard Co.,
being among the first settlers of that place; taking
her share of trial and privation, as well as Indian
troubles with the rest of her brethren and sisters.
At one time an old Indian came to her house ask-
ing for food and everything else which he could
see. When Sister Hutchinson refused to give the
things to him, he pulled out his knife. Sister
Hutchinson took up the fire shovel with a good
supply of fire on it, and ran after the Indian. He
ran away as fast as possible, and did not come
back.
	For many years she was an officer in the Des-
eret Primary Association, also a teacher in the
Rellef Society both in Deseret and Hinckley, to,
which place they moved from Deseret She was a
kind mother and great friend to the needy, depriv-
ing herself of needful food many times to give to
others. For five years she suffered from paralysis,
which she bore without a murmur. She finally
was seized with la grippe, and died at the resi-
dence of her daughter, Mrs. James Garrett, at
Nephi.
			NAOMI R. THEOBOLD,
				President Hinckley R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHER’S WORK
		BEAVER STAKE.
	Lesson I. Industry.
	(a) For children to realize that home
is the dearest place on earth, they must
be taught to make it so by their own in-
dustry. (b) Teach them to take pride in
their surroundings and in the way they
care for them, (by precept or example).
(c) Let them share responsibility, (why?).
(d) Teach them the value of time in all
their undertakings. (e) Value of method.
(f) Their work should be arranged so
they will have time for study and recrea-
tion, (by whom?). (g) Encourage men-
tal development, (how?). (h) Aid them
in harmless pastimes, (how?). (i) As the
sapling is bent so it will grow, so the in-
dustrious boy makes a good husband and
the industrious girl a thrifty wife, (give
example). (j) A mother’s duty is not
wholly fulfilled in working for her chil-
dren, but in teaching them to work for
themselves, (why not?). (k) Fit your
children for the work they must do in la-
ter life. (l) Teach them that while they
are assisting you, they are preparing
themselves for similar positions of respon-
sibility. (m) To train our children to
work for others will foster in them a
spirit of love and unselfishness particular-
ly for those dependent on us—true love is
self-sacrificing. (n) Evil effects of idle-
ness. (o) Bad habits formed in the idle
moments. (p) Degenerating acquaint-
ances made. (q) Vulgar tastes cultivated?
	“For idle hands some mischief still will
ever find to do.”
	Lesson II. Hospitality.
	(a) True spirit of hospitality. (b) From
a social standpoint. (c) From a religious
standpoint. (Titus 1:8). (d) True hospi-
tality does not look for a return. (e) To
whom should be extended our hospitality?
(f) Social indebtedness. (g) Christian
indebtedness. (Rom. 12:13; I Peter 4:9).
(h) Better err on the wrong side than
to turn away hungry a fellow creature.
(Heb. 13:2). (i) Why should we en-
courage our children to be hospitable?
(j) Reward of hospitality. (Matt. 25:
31-46).
			Beaver East Ward R. S.
	Lesson III. Influence of Prayer in the
Home.
	“Prayer is the key with which the door
of each day should be opened and closed.”
	(a) Prayer secures divine aid for parents
in their home management. (b) It de-
velops in the hearts of the parents and
children a trust and confidence in God’s
power and promises, that bring peace and
contentment in the home. (c) Prayer
gives courage and strength to perform
faithfully the duties of life. (d) It is by
prayer that we express gratitude to God
for blessings, and supplicate from a con-
tinuation of mercies. (e) The prayer of
righteous parents has and can turn way-
ward children from the error of their
ways. (Book of Mormon, Mosiah 27:14).
(f) Prayer is a safeguard that protects
from sin and gives strength to resist evil
influences. (Book of Mormon, Alma 36).
(g) Joseph Smith unlocked the heavens
by prayer—we can have the same key—
God is no respector of persons—the great
and the small can approach Him through
the prayer of humility and faith. (h) Give
instances where prayer has been answered

[Column 2]
and its beneficial effects in the home.
(Gen. 17:20; I Kings 18:36; Ex. 17:4, 32:
11).
	Lesson IV. Proper Home Ideals.
	“The love of the beautiful is a handmaid
of civilization.”
	“For as a man thinketh in his heart, so
is he.” (Prov. 23:7).
	“Be ye perfect, even as your Father in
heaven is perfect.” (Matt. 5:48; II Sam.
22;31).
	(a) An aspiration to excel in every thing
that is good or praiseworthy should be
instilled and encouraged and developed
in our children. (Why? Articles of Faith
13). (b) The love of order and clean-
liness should be so highly developed that
every member of the family would be un-
comfortable when conditions were other-
wise, (Why?). (b) The spiritual and moral
atmosphere is kept pure and healthy and
invigorating, (Why?). (d) Willing cheerful
obedience to wise, just impartial home
rules and regulations. (e) Polite courteous
consideration for each other and their
rights. (Show how it refines and ennobles).
(f) A deep love for honesty, purity, truth,
justice and mercy. (What kind of char-
acter does it develop?). (g) Unquestion-
ed loyalty to God, country and home.
(What are its fruits?). (h) An affection-
ate reverence for the aged; and sacred
places and things. (How does it effect the
public?).
			Beaver West Ward R. S.
	LESSON V. Father’s Mother’s, Chil-
dren’s Rights in the Home.
	(a) Father’s privilege to provide a home
and preside over it. (b) To the love and
respect and co-operation of the mother.
(c) To the love and obedience of the chil-
dren. Why? (d) To counsel and instruct
and direct the household. (e) The moth-
er’s right to preside over the home in the
absence of the father. Why? (f) En-
titled to the support, to the confidence, to
the love and courtesies of the father.
Why is she? (g) To the affection, obedi-
ence and help of the children. (h) Chil-
dren have a right to be well born. What
is well born? (i) To be cared for tenderly
and intelligently in infancy. (j) To a
cleanly, comfortable, peaceful home. (k)
To spiritual, moral and physical training.
(l) To the best educational opportunities
that the parents are able to give. (m)
To be disciplined, by precept and ex-
ample, in honesty, purity, truthfulness,
industry, economy, perseverance, kind-
ness, gentleness, and patience. (n) To
be treated kindly, courteously and affec-
tionately by their father and mother. (o)
To sympathy, compassion, and forgive-
ness when overtaken in sin and transgres-
sion. (p) To be reproved, corrected and
controlled. (q) To be encouraged, trust-
ed and made self-reliant. (Give the good
results that follow granting children’s
rights and the evil effects where their
rights have been disregarded).
	LESSON VI. Patience and Persever-
ance.
	“Our greatest glory is not in never fall-
ing, but in rising every time we fall.”
		If a task is once begun
		Never leave it till its done.
		Say I can, and then stick to it,
		That’s the only way to do it.
	“He who has no patience is poor in-
deed.”

[Column 3]
	Patience is one of the chief virtues.
Ref. Luke 21:19. (a) Give the best
method of teaching it to children.
(b) Can parents without self-control teach
patience effectively? (c) Give the value
of patience and perseverance in the home.
(d) How do they assist parents in manag-
ing wayward children? (e) Show how
children trained in perseverance and ap-
plication go far ahead of those not so
trained. (f) Patience and perseverance
the most valuable elements in foundation
of character. (Explain how). (g) To
what extent do they overcome the oppo-
sition and difficulties of life? (h) Name
some of the powers acquired, and bless-
ings obtained, by repeated effort. Matt.
24:13; I Cor. 15-58.
					Milford R. S.
	LESSON VII. Social Purity.
	“To be socially pure, one must store
the mind with pure, ennobling thoughts.”
	“Blessed are the pure in heart for they
shall see God.” Matt. 5:8. (a) Avoid
slander, vulgar language and impolite-
ness. (b) Overcome selfish tendencies.
(c) Cultivate truthfulness, integrity and
goodness, pure thoughts. Eph. 5:3, 4.
(d) Kind words and gentle actions. (e)
The foundation should be laid at home.
Ref. Young Woman’s Journal, Vol. VI,
page 512. Be first in the field.
	Lesson VIII. Harmful Effects of Evil
Speaking.
		“Nay, speak no ill, a kindly work
		Can never leave a sting behind.”
	“In this day of advanced thought, each person
seems to be the self-constituted judge of his asso-
ciates, passing opinion blindly and thoughtlessly
upon their actions, little knowing sometimes what
the result will be—never pausing to consider that
these hasty, imperfect judgments so universally
and forcibly expressed, may possibly mar a life,
or place a dark blot on an otherwise unsullied
name.”
	(a) Of the many beautiful precepts
taught by Jesus none is more important
or less regarded than “Judge not, that ye
be not judged.” (Matt. 7:1.) (b) “A
good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit.”
(Matt. 7-18.) (c) How does evil speak-
ing influence children? (d) How does it
harm the speaker? (Psalm 34:13; I Peter
3:10, 11.) (e) Explain how it may mar the
life or place a dark blot on the char-
acter of the one spoken of. (f) What in-
fluence has it on the public? (James 3:5,
6, 8; Prov. 25:23; 26:18, 20.)
		“If you’re the first a fault to see
		Be not the first to make it known.”
	(g) Why not?
					Minersville R. S.
	Lesson IX, Cheerfulness.
	“’Tis cheerfulness that lights the world’s dark
		ways,
	And drives away the shadows with its rays.”
	(a) Name some of the potent influences
for good of cheerfulness, that are con-
stantly made upon us, as we pass through
the daily school of life. (b) Is it the duty
of parents to cultivate and develop in
themselves and their children a cheerful,
sunshiny disposition? Why? (c) Can
parents give their children a better herit-
age than the faculty to appreciate bless-
ings and see the bright side of life? (Prov.
17:22.) (d) Tell why the true Latter-
day Saints’ hearts will be so full of hope 
and faith and trust in God that there will
be no room for sadness and gloom or de-
spondency. (Prov. 15:13, 15.) (e) How
does sunshine in the heart melt away the


[Column 1]
cares and trials and worries of life as rap
idly as the sun does snow? (f) Illustrate
how smiles and mild answers will disperse
dark clouds and turn away wrath, that
at times threaten to mar our home peace
and happiness, (g) How does cheerful-
ness invigorate, mentally and physically?
(h) Is it not the important duty of all,
Latter-day Saints in particular, to be
cheerful, and scatter generously smiles
and encouraging words? (II Cor. 9:7.)

Lesson X. Worry.
	“It is not the work, but the worry,
		That makes us sober and sad;
	That makes us narrow and sordid,
		When we should be cheery and glad.

	“It is not the work, but the worry,
		That makes the world grow old, 
	That numbers the years of its children,
		Ere half their story is told.”

	(a) Worry—what is it? (b) Its effect
upon the parents. (c) Upon the chil-
dren. (d) Upon our associates. (e)
Name some of the causes of worry. (f)
How does it affect us physically and men-
tally? (g) What are the fruits of fretting,
repining and useless complaining? (h)
Can worry deepen the lines of care on the
face, rob the form of its grace and elas-
ticity, and take the sparkle and lustre
from the eyes? (i) Show how it antici-
pates and magnifies evils that never come.
(j) Is it work or worry that drives away
sleep and causes us to toss and tumble on
our beds, unfitting ourselves for the duties
of today? (k) Is worrying a habit partic-
ularly with womenj If so, can it be over-
come: and how? (l) Ought care and sor-
row to be accepted as inevitable and the
necessary discipline of life? (m) Show
how patient resignation and being thank-
ful that things are no worse, and letting
our thoughts go out to others more un-
fortunate, restore peace and thankfulness
to the disturbed soul and drive away the
evil spirit of worry and discord.
				Adamsville R. S.

Lesson XI. Charity.
	(a) Definition. (Ref.: Book of Mor-
mon, Moroni 7:45-48.) (b) Importance.
(I Peter 4: 8; I Cor. 13: 1-3.) (c) Christ
our great exemplar in charity and com-
passion, expressed in healings, raising
the dead, restoring sight and hearing,
cleansing lepers, rebuking evil spirits, and
releasing sinners. (Ref.: John 11: 11:44;
Luke 7: 12-15; Matt. 8:28-32.) (d) Show
how we can manifest our charity toward
mankind. (e) Feeding the hungry and
clothing the naked is not the highest type
of charity—it is only a temporary relief;
while to provide ways and means for self-
help is a permanent blessing. (f) Show
how one drags down to pauperism, and
the other develops self-respect and man-
hood. (g) Explain the difference between
charity and benevolence.

Lesson XII. Home Economy.
	“Economy is the magic door
	That leads to wealth’s accumulated store,”

	(a) Show the benefits of children be-
ing trained while young in habits of econ-

[Column 2]
omy. (b) It will not depart from them
in after life. (c) It is a safeguard against
poverty, and an insurance of plenty.
Why? (d) Necessity of training them to
realize the value of money—the good that
might be accomplished with it—that they
will not have a desire to spend it in friv-
olous things that could be done without.
(e) Explain how method of performing
work will economize time. (f) Importance
of improving the precious moments and
not wasting the time God has given us.
					Greenville R. S.
	Alice Gunn White, Mary A. White,
Frances L, Jones, Clarissa E. Parkin-
son, Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake was held in the
2nd ward chapel American Fork, Friday,
April 19, 1907. President Rebecca Stand-
ring presiding. Opening exercises.
	President Standring was pleased to see
and welcome the sisters. Noticed that
sisters were here from our fartherest wards
while some nearer home had excused
themselves. We should be earnest in
our work. We have four conferences
each year and twelve conjoint meetings
and have much to encourage us onward.
We have entered our 68th year since our
first organization.
	The sisters can call their children to-
gether in family prayer and thus set an
example to the head of the house, and
plant the principle of prayer in the hearts
of the children for the children cannot
be saved through the good' works of the
parents.
	Four of the wards were reported by
their respective presidents. All seem to
be in good running order, officers united,
teachers doing their duty and all working
in harmony. Much has been done during
the past year in building meeting houses
in which work the sisters have done a
good share besides taking care of the poor,
gathering grain and numerous other duties
devolving upon them.
	President Jas. H. Clarke in his excel-
lent remarks said, manv of the sisters
leave it too late to get the lessons they
could have had in early life. President
Joseph F. Smith would like to see women
of vigor and strength take hold of Relief
Society work. There are many who never
get the spirit and benefit of the instruc-
tions given here. If the teachers could
carry the spirit of these meetings to those
who cannot attend, it would be a great
help.
	Bishop Storrs realized that the Relief
Society was one of the greatest organiza-
tions in the Church, and what they do is
always a success spoke of the word of
wlsdom, and many other good things.
	Meeting closed by singing, etc.
	Afternoon Session at 2 o’clock. Presi-
dent Standring presiding. Singing. Prayer
by President Abel J. Evans. A select

[Column 2]
piece was rendered by the sisters of the
American Fork 1st ward, entitled “Count
your blessings.”
	President Standring made a few excel-
cellent opening remarks.
	Four presidents gave good reports of
their various wards. Good conditions ex-
isted and a spirit of inquiry seemed to be
in the hearts of the people, and the meet-
ings are better attended.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley, this so-
city was given to us that we might help
each other. We fully appreciate this
blessing. We are not perhaps always do-
ing the best we can, but our desires are
to do right.
	Song, “Sometime, somewhere” by Miss
Edith Hindley.
	President Stephen L. Chipman said,
the instructions given were from the
proper spirit. Found we were below the
average with other stakes. We have
fewer missionaries in the field. Our mis-
sionaries should be strong in body and in
good health. Where the young man has
proved a failure in the mission field he
was a failure before he went.
	Sister Sina Chipman of the Stake Board
spoke of the unity there is among the sis-
ters. “Let us commence in our homes
and see what can be done with the chil-
dren. When we are doing good to others
we are helping ourselves.
	Brother Ammon Mercer of Canada felt
to appreciate the privilege of meeting old
time friends, rejoiced in attending confer-
ence and seeing the spirit of unity and ad-
vancement, knew the Lord was favoring
Zion and especially the children of the
Saints.
	Solo, “Star of the East” by Sister Laura
McCarty.
	Sister Emily Bullock bore her testi-
mony, felt thankful for the Relief Society
for in it are the best women. Desired to
set a good example and hoped we would
all be faithful to the end.
	Bishop Fjeld of Lehi, “the work is
growing and it cannot be put down. Now
the Church is out of debt it will make
rapid strides.”
	Ellen D. Clarke of the Stake Board felt
we had had a time of rejoicing. Spoke
of tithing and that there was a blessing
attending the observance of this principle.
	Rosalie Driggs of the Stake Board felt
proud of the Alpine Stake and knew the
work was true, had learned much from
being a member of the Relief Society.
	President Standring, “the Lord had 
blest us and repaid us for coming together
for we have had an overflow of the spirit
of the Lord. Singing, “Lord dismiss us.”
	Benediction, Sister Rachel Hunter.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	The several stakes of Zion are hereby
notified that the Relief Society Nurse
Class for this year will begin in Septem-
ber with the first session of the L. D. S.
University.
	The important work is under the aus-
pices of the general Board of the Relief
Society, who desire the earnest co-opera-
tion of all ward and stake presidents.
	ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
						Instructor.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 36						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, JULY, 1907.						No. 2


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
From Finland...............Alexandra Gripenberg	 9
Biography:—Rachel Whipple—Electa Wood
	Bullock....................................................	10
A Fine Reception...................Ellen R. Watson	11
Southern Alberta.............................................	15
Relief Society Reports:—Uintah Stake...........	14
	Weber Stake.............................................	14
	Pocatello Stake........................................	14
	Blackfoot Stake.......................................	14
	Snowflake Stake......................................	15
Obituary...........................................................	13
Editorial:—The First Literary Society in Utah	12
	Fulfillment of Prophecy...........................	13
Poetry:—Life for Evermore......H. W. Naisbitt	 9
	Tenederly Love on...........Lydia D. Alder	11


LIFE FOR EVERMORE.

AFTER LISTENING TO THE TABERNACLE ORGAN
				AND CHOIR.

The organ’s voice came floating to my ear,
Soft, sweet, anon in sonorous roar,
Which rolled along the lofty arch; then died.
Again the melody rang out in sob and swell,
The choir in unison and many-voiced,
Burst into joyous half ecstatic tones and mood
Until the glorious refrain climax reached,
Like Choir supernal, “Life for Evermore!”

With head bowed low, and throbbing heart, to
	pain,
The strain sublime rang out once more;
To all surroundings lost, the spirit drank
That mystic, all-pervading draught again,
Till earth with all its cares and petty things
Were naught to that sweet rapture and its theme
The final swell in grand luxuriance rose,
The same refrain of “Life for Evermore!”

The prayer and benison arose to heaven
As if inspired, its words subdued to tears!
The throng passed out into the Sabbath street;
Some souls were hushed to peace and holy joy,
On others, Oh ’twas lost—that thought;
Its thrilling voice, its music and its power,
They nothing felt, or heard; saw not, cared not,
Had no dream there of “Life for Evermore!”

Moving in business marts, in social cheer;
At noon, in twilight, and on sleepless couch;
In midnight dreams; that mighty organ peal.
That heavenly choir hath echoed all around.
In worship, when alone, when crowds were by
The sacred burthen of that startling hour,
And strangely moving mood, the same heart
	throb,
The same words rang, Oh, “Life for Evermore!”

Praise God! Praise God for music and for moods,
For thoughts for Him, for inspiration’s touch!
For phrases rounded into burning words;
For all of life and flashing hope today;
For all suggestive and alluring thoughts;
’Mid mocking earth—life, shallow at its best!
For that assurance of a brighter day
Which, God-like, tells of “Life for Evermore!”

This may be mine, be yours, ’tis more than dream;
The way is marked by tread of patient feet,
But ’tis for “Life, and ’tis for evermore.”
The anthem here rings there in grander key,
The spirit-pulse throbs there as if ’twere here;
All God’s redeemed have equal parts,
And all the angels sing in grand acclaim,
In heightened bliss in “Life for Evermore!”
						H. W. NAISBITT.


[Column 1]
		FROM FINLAND.

DURING A SESSION IN THE DIET.
	I write this during a pause in the ses-
sion. We are discussing the stamp duty,
the post statutes and the statutes on elk
hunting, but just now there is a little
pause. Yesterday six of us women pre-
sented our first petition on Married Wo-
men’s Property Right. Today we have
presented a bill on the Mother’s Right to
her Children, and a petition on the Rais-
ing of the Marriage Age. We are, as I
have mentioned before, nineteen women.
	On my right side sits Miss Hilda Kaki-
koski, a well known speaker and writer
on political questions. She is a very
good lecturer among the people on popu-
lar subjects. On my left side sits Mrs.
Hedvig Gebhard, the only woman in the
diet whose husband also is elected. He
sits in front of her. Mrs. Gebhard’s spe-
cialty is co-operation and social politics.
At her side sits Miss Ida Vemmelpuu,
teacher in a Folk school and chairman of
a Woman’s Rights Association. Lower
down sits Mrs. Lisi Kivioja, the wife of a
minister, and Mrs. Evelina Ala-Kulju,
the wife of a peasant. These all belong
as I do to the “Finnish Party.” A little
further on to the right sit Miss Hagman
and Miss Nissinen, both school principals,
Miss Hagman of a co-educational Ly-
ceum, Miss Nissinen of a preparatory
school. Both belong to the “Young
Finnish Party” and both are also writers
on social subjects. Miss Hagman also is
a pioneer in the co-education. Still more
to the right sits Miss Dagmar Neovius,
from the Swedish party, also a teacher.
To the left sits one of the social demo-
cratic women, whom I do not know yet;
they have, all of them, only worked as
agitators in their own party and are
chiefly known by that. With the excep-
tion of Mrs. Parssinen, who is a folk
school teacher, none of them are what is
called educated women. Most of them
are former servants, seamstresses or fac-
tory girls. It must be said that we wo-
men are very delicately treated. We have
a special room in pale oak and green.
Among the electors are five women, two
of them proxies.
	On the ten Parliamentary Committees
are elected fifteen women (some of them
proxies). I fear that we shall not be able
to do much in the committees because so
much of the work needs special knowl-
edge in law and in different branches of
social political subjects, which hitherto
have been little studied among women.
But our chief mission will be to take care
of women’s interests in the different ques-
tions. I sit on the Committee on Law,
the other woman member is a social
democrat—a washerwoman.
	To this committee most of the ques-
tions on reform in the laws concerning
women are sent. From this point of
view, perhaps, we women are able to do
something. But this fact—the washer-
woman on the Parliamentary Law Com-

[Column 2]
mittee—explains perhaps in some degree
to foreigners, the sort of difficulties which
arise for us women, because we have re-
ceived  parliamentary eligibility at the
same time as universal suffrage and uni-
versal eligibility were introduced. We
have also got this new right at a time
when the parties are very bitter against
each other. For both these reasons
there may rise difficulties, even disabili-
ties, which are an outcome of the facts
mentioned above, not of Women’s Suf-
frage and eligibility as such, but which
will be counted as results of both these
reforms. To explain this, an account of
the present state of the parties would be
needed, but such an explanation would take
too much of the Englishwoman’s Review
space.
	June 1. Today the “large committee”
was elected. Four women became mem-
bers.
	July 1. It is yet too early to say any-
thing about the women’s work in the
Diet. But so much can be said, that the
beginning is good, inasmuch as twenty-
seven women have been elected members
in the different committees, twelve of
them proxies. In this Diet there are the
following committees appointed: “The
great committee,”’ committees on consti-
tution, finance, bank affairs, railways,
law, economics, social and agrarian ques-
tions.  A fact which I think shows a weak
point is, that sometimes women have
been elected, not because they know any-
thing concerning the questions which the
committee will have to deal with, but just-
because they are women, or—to fill a
vacancy. This is especially the case with
some of the social democratic elections.
It is impossible that a seamstress can be
a suitable person to sit on the committee
on constitution, or a factory girl on the
finance committee, as is now the case.
And when the Diet has come to an end,
people will perhaps say, “Why, women
have shown now that it is of no use to
have them in Parliament.” But how
very different a position we should have,
if we had women lawyers on the commit-
tee on law and women bankers or promi-
nent business women on the committee
on finance.
	An encouraging point is, that the peti-
tions and bills brought in by women all,
without a single exception, dealt with
questions concerning changes in laws
about women and children, social purity,
education and other ethical questions.
Women appeared very little in purely
party questions, although they “showed
their colors” by signing petitions together
with men, and voted with their parties on
important questions. The bills brought
in asked for: (1) Raising the marriage
age from 15 to 18 years; (2) majority and
property-right for the married women.
The petitions brought in asked for: (1)
Majority and property-right for the
married women (three different peti-
tions); (2) legal right for the married wo-
man to own her children (two petitions);
(3) reforms in the legal position of chil-


dren born out of wedlock (three peti-
tions; (4) sharpening of the punishment
for offenses against girls under 17 years
of age—the age of consent is now 17, but
the punishment is too small— (four peti-
tions; (5) same right for women as for
men to serve in the Civil Service and re-
ceive other State employment (two peti-
tions; (6) reform of the girls’ household
training schools and more grants from
the State for their support; (7) midwives
to all municipal parishes (there are near-
ly one hundred without any midwife, and
the death-rate of newly born babies is
very high). Besides these bills and peti-
tions, a woman brought in a bill on such
changes in the law as would help to re-
move the disabilities concerning the bad
state and the insufficient supply of work-
ing men’s abodes. Another woman read
a petition concerning the foundation of a
national academy for our Finnish lan-
guage, literature and folk lore.
	The nine social democratic women
members brought in a petition that in
every municipal parish should be started
establishments by the State for all wo-
men who have children born out of wed-
lock, where these and their children
should be supported. As this proposition
was very vague and in many points al-
most openly advocated free love without
any limit, there arose a strong opposition
from some of us other women delegates;
so much the more, as the proposed
“homes” reminded us of the well-known
establishment of the same kind, united
in olden times with the Notre Dame Ca-
thedral in Paris, which had to be abol-
shed because of the horrid abuses to
which it led. This was the first time
there was a struggle between two differ-
ent tendencies among the women in the
Diet, but it will not be the last one. The
next battle will be on the special labor
legislation for women, and I am sorry to
say that very few among us women mem-
bers if any (besides one) will be “on the
right side.” In the next number of the
Review I shall certainly have to report
that most of us have “with flying flags
and the clang of trumpets” gone over to
the enemy; that is, have gladly made a
law which puts grown-up women in the
same category as children.
	We have a saying in our country: “They
don’t get any sense until they need it
no longer.”—Alexandra Gripenberg in
Englishwoman’s Review.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
BIOGRAPHY.
RACHEL WHIPPLE.
	Rachel Whipple was born in Draket,
Derbyshire, England, March 10, 1817.
Her parents, William and Sarah Cassel-
dine, were good, God-fearing people, but
Sister Rachel never knew the love of her
father and mother, as she was left an or-
phan when but fifteen weeks old. She
was then taken under the guardianship of
Henry and Elizabeth Godbe, who taught
her principles in her youth which helped
to build the true and noble character she
now possesses.
	On November 12, 1837, she was mar-
ried to John West. Sister Rachel had
been raised as a member of the Method-
ist church, but in the year 1848 she had
the privilege of hearing an Elder of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day

[Column 2]
Saints and in August of the same year she
along with her husband and family em-
braced the Gospel.
	Brother and Sister West were blessed
with five children, but were called to part
with one of them. On New Year’s day,
1851, they and their four children left
England for the valleys of the mountains.
Their ocean voyage was a very tedious
one, lasting ten weeks and three days.
After arriving in New Orleans Brother
and Sister West journeyed to St. Joseph.
Here the entire family was taken ill and
was not able to do anything for one an-
other. As they were among strangers,
there was not a friend to call on for aid.
For days the children lay crying for at-
tention, and the father and mother were
too ill to do anything for them. The
weather was bitter cold and they had no
fire. During these times Brother West
and three of the children were called to
the other side, leaving mother and daugh-
ter alone.
	In the spring Sister Rachel and her
daughter began their wearisome journey
across the plains with an ox and a cow
yoked together for their team. After
many hardships they arrived in Salt Lake
City on August 5, 1852, and made their
home with Brother Jesse West of the
Sixth ward.
	On the 10th of March, 1853, Sister Ra-
chel was married to Nelson Whipple and
came to reside in what was then the Nine-
teenth ward. Brother and Sister Whip-
ple were blessed with three children.
	On May 14, 1868, Eliza R. Snow and
Bishop Raleigh organized the Relief So-
ciety in the Nineteenth ward, when Sister
Whipple, who was always an energetic
worker and did all she could to assist the
poor and needy, was called to act as
First Counselor to Sister Agatha Pratt.
She labored faithfully in this position for
nine years and six months, when, owing
to the removal of Sister Pratt from the
ward, she was called to preside over the
Society.
	A few years after Sister Whipple had
been called to take charge of the Nine-
teenth ward Society the ward was di-
vided and the Twenty-second ward was
organized, which made Sister Whipple a
member of the new ward. So on the
16th of June, 1889, Sister Whipple was
made President of the new Twenty-sec-
ond ward Society, with Mary Jeremy as
her first and Maria L. Nebeker as her
second counselor. When they began their
work in the new ward they had nothing
to work with and no place in which to
hold their meetings, so they began meet-
ing in Sister Whipple’s house. At their
first business meeting, Sister Jeremy
brought needles, thread and some calico,
and the sisters spent their time in sew-
ing. From this humble beginning the
Society grew and prospered exceedingly
under the direction of Sister Whipple,
and they built a very commodious hall in
which to hold their meetings.
	On Nov. 12, 1901, Sister Mary Jeremy,
who had been a faithful worker, was re-
leased on account of illness, and Sister
Maria L. Nebeker was called to act as first
counselor and Sister Elizabeth H. Davis
as second counselor to Sister Whipple.
Soon after this, Sister Nebeker was taken
very ill, which prevented her attending
to her duties as a counselor, therefore the
work was left to Sister Whipple and Sis-
ter Davis.

[Column 3]
	For nearly thirty-sven years Sister
Whipple labored faithfully in Relief So-
ciety work, but finally, on account of her
feebleness and poor health, was com-
pelled to resign from her labors. There-
fore in June, 1904, she in connection with
Sister Nebeker was honorably released
with the love and blessings of all.
	The beloved subject of this sketch,
Sister Whipple, is still living, and al-
though she is over ninety years of age,
still she possesses her faculties of mind
and can sing the hymns of Zion with a
clear, sweet voice or converse with her
friends with a great amount of pleasure.
During her life she has shown herself to
be a true and noble woman, and it is the
desire of the sisters with whom she asso-
ciated that she may live as long as life is
desirable to her, and have the satisfac-
tion of knowing when she passes to an-
other sphere, that she has done her work
well, and has been loved by all who
knew her. When the angel of death
shall call her to the heavenly home,
may she fall asleep as a babe on its moth-
er’s breast, receive a glorious resurrec-
tion, and reign as a queen in the heavenly
kingdom forever.
			ELIZABETH H. DAVIS,
	President 22nd ward Relief Society.
			LULA WINN, Secretary.


ELECTA WOOD BULLOCK.
	Electa Wood Bullock was born July 15th, 1834,
in Florence, Huron Co., Ohio. She is the daughter
of Gideon D. and Hannah Daily Wood. Her pa-
rents joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Sain s in 1831. In 1839 Mrs. Bullock moved
with her parents to Far West, Mo., and went
through all the exciting scenes and vicissitudes of
the Saints in that country. From Far West they
removed to Adams County, Ill., in 1840, where
they resided until 1845, when they removed to
Nauvoo and in the spring of 1846 went with the
main body of the Saints to Council Bluffs. Here
the family remained until the spring of 1848 when
they undertook the long journey across the plains,
leaving the Missouri river May 16th, and arriving
in Salt Lake Sept. 24th. Mrs. Bullock resided in
Salt Lake City until 1854 and then moved to
Springville, Utah Co. During her residence in
Salt Lake City she was called by Pres. Brigham
Young to take an active part in the Drama. She
was in the cast of the first performance given in
the old Social Hall and for many years thereafter
was one who greatly assisted in promoting the in-
terest of the Drama in Utah. She possessed great
dramatic ability as many of her friends will testify.
In 1856 she was married to Isaac Bullock and has
since that time resided in Provo, where for many
years she conducted the “Bullock Hotel.” Among
those who have enjoyed the hospitality of the
“Bullock House” are numbered Congressmen,
Governors, Judges, English noblemen and states-
men and diplomats of several nations. She re-
tired from the cares and responsibilities of hotel
life in 1888, and since then has devoted her time
to the public service in numerous capacities.
	In 1890 she began to devote her energies and
ability to the promotion of the interests of Woman
Suffrage. From that time until today she has been
an earnest and consistent advocate of that great
and growing cause.
	In 1891 she was elected president of the “Woman
Suffrage Association of Utah Co.” and she has
been continued in that position to the present
time; in the same year she was elected a delegate
from Utah to the National Woman Suffrage Con-
gress held in Washington D.C. After the adjourn-
ment of that congress she visited her relatives in
Ohio, and while at Oberlin, Ohio, received word
of the sudden death of her husband, whom she
had left but a few weeks before in the best of
health.
	Upon her return home she continued with in-
creased energy if possible, to labor in the interest
of equal political rights for woman, and her in-
fluence was brought to bear upon the minds of
many who otherwise were avowed enemies to the
cause.
	In 1893 she was called by the committee in
charge of the Utah exhibit at the ChicagoWorld’s
Fair, to act as one of the five Lady managers.


She went to Chicago in May and remained at the
Utah Building continually until the close of the
Fair the last of Oct. 1893. In the discharge of her
duties at the Utah Building, she made many
friends for Utah, and succeeded in removing a
great many prejudices against this people and
false ideas concerning her people and state.
	Prior to and during the campaign for the elec-
tion of delegates to the constitutional convention,
Mrs. Bullock made a thorough personal canvass
of Utah county, visiting every prec nct in the in-
terest of securing in the proposed State Constitu-
tion a provision for equal suffrage  There was no
one influence more potent than that wielded by
her and her ardent co-laborers that brought the
result of an able delegation from the second
county in the state, unanimously in favor of an
equal suffrage plank in the constitution. In this
work she stood above party politics and advocated
her cause solely upon the principle of human
liberty, and advanced civilization.
	For many years past, Mrs. Bullock has devoted
much of her time to the Relief Society. When the
organization of the 6th ecclesiastical ward of Provo
was effected she became the President of the So-
ciety in that ward, and holds the position at the
present time. Many a sad heart has been made
glad through her kind motherly advice and care,
her influence is felt for good wherever she goes.
And now at the age of 73 she is still hale, hearty,
and active and takes great pleasure in her public
work. She takes great delight in her children,
grandchildren and great-grandchildren with whom
she is surrounded, and every one of them is a credit
to her, and the community in which they live.
								O S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A FINE RECEPTION.
	On June 24th, 1907, a very pleasant re-
ception was tendered to Sister Elizabeth
W. Condie, our retiring secretary, who
has been connected with the 6th ward
Relief Society for many years, being sec-
retary for over twenty-five years in this
society. Her new home in the 4th ward
was crowded with guests all anxious to
honor Sister Condie. The Stake Coun-
selors of the Pioneer Stake Relief Socie-
ty were present; also Brothers James
Leatham and Thomas Winter, the sis-
ters and brethren numbering forty-five.
	Counselor Lucy S. Acomb, in her pleas-
ing manner, assisting to make everyone
happy. Each one had brought some
dainties to prepare for a sumptuous ban-
quet. Two large tables were spread with
dainties, including strawberries and cake of
various kinds, which all enjoyed heartily.
President Ellen R. Watson presided,
assisted by her Counselors, Alice Butter-
worth and Margaret Leatham. The sisters
sang—“We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet.” Brother Winter, in a brief
manner, expressed his pleasure in being
an invited guest and spoke of the noble
work the sisters were doing. Singing—
“Now Let us Rejoice.”
	Stake Counselor Rebecca Pettit said she
expected President Cannon here today;
something has prevented her from com-
ing. “I have enjoyed myself much, I al-
ways do when engaged in this great and
noble work. You sisters show your res-
pect and love for Sister Condie by such a
gathering here today. Your President
must be proud of you sisters, you are all
active and energetic in this work. I am
proud to be here on this occasion to honor
Sister Condie, who has been a faithful
worker in your society; she has done ex-
cellent work in your midst; you will miss
her; she is truly worthy of the honor you
have shown her today.”
	Counselor Margaret Leatham said: “I do
honor and respect Sister Condie for her
faithful labors. She has been more than
a sister. I have known her over forty
years past. She has always been willing
and at her post on every occasion when

[Column 2]
duty called her; has been faithful and true
under every trial. Her life has not been
without severe trials; she has nobly stood
the test and clung to the iron rod; never
been ashamed of the gospel nor its prin-
ciples; has always nobly defended them.
We have one of the finest societies in the
Pioneer stake”.
	Singing—“The Spirit of God.”
	Sister Mary Ann Rushton bore a faith-
ful testimony to the truth of the gospel.
Had undergone many trials; was now 84
years old. Had been in Nauvoo in all the
mobbing and persecution. Heard the
Prophet Joseph Smith speak in meeting
and prophesy many things which have
been literally fulfilled; had the pleasure of
shaking hands with the prophet. Said—
“O, how noble and grand he was; how I
rejoice when I reflect that I knew him;
yes, we loved him; his memory is dear to
us. I was in the meeting when the first
Relief Society was organized. During
the mobbing in Nauvoo my husband,
children and myself were hid in an old
wagon; nine masked men came up, de-
manding my husband, telling me they
would kill him. I replied—not, unless
you kill me first; if you come nearer we
will show you. Our faith never wavered.
God bless you all.”
	Counselor Butterworth felt that we all
came to show our respect to Sister Con-
die. The Lord has blessed her in a re-
markable manner, for she never failed us,
was humble and obedient: we feel we
lose one who was on hand when called
upon. We love and honor her and her
labors; pray she may live to enjoy her
beautiful home; that she may be blessed
in her posterity. We are proud of our
Society in the 6th ward. May the Lord
bless Sister Condie that she may be faith-
ful to the end.
	Song by Sister Bates, entitled: “Let
the Heavenly Gates ajar,” accompanied
by Sister Annie Poulton on the piano.
	Aunt Sarah Fullmer, as she is called
by those who know her, was one of the
oldest members of this society; crossed
the plains with the Pioneers; had been an
active teacher fifty-three years in this so-
ciety; was a presiding teacher twenty-five
years, and was never too feeble to act in
that capacity.
	Brother James Leatham said he felt
proud to be numbered with Relief Socie-
ty workers; he had known Sister Condie
forty-three years; had found her to be al-
ways the same true and faithful worker on
every occasion and in every capacity. She
had been a faithful worker in the Relief
society thirty-four years; taught school
and assisted to educate our young. “I was
connected somewhat with her in that ca-
pacity. Knew her to be faithful and true
in every calling, laboring for the advance-
ment of the Relief Society work. The
Lord has blessed you, sisters, in your
noble work and many aged who have
passed on to the other side have felt the
blessings of your labors. May the Lord
be with Sister Condie, that her last
days may be peace and joy and satisfac-
tion in the gospel. I pray that all may
fill the mission designed them.”
	President Ellen R. Watson presented
Sister Condie, in behalf of the sisters,
with a beautiful mahogany rocker.
	Counselor Lucy S. Acomb presented
Sister Condie with a beautiful batiste or
lap tablet with paper and envelopes, and
said that we wish you, in your leisure mo- 

[Column 3]
ments, to open this, and write us kind re-
membrances.
	Sister Condie, in replying to these
kind sentiments, said: “My dear sisters,
my heart is too full to express my feel-
ings and sentiments here today. May I al-
ways be worthy of your love and esteem.”
	The beautiful hymn, favorite with Sister
Condie, was sung: “O my Father.”
	After hand-shaking, many kind senti-
ments were expressed and all retired feel-
ing truly blest.
		Prest. ELLEN R. WATSON,
	Counselors ALICE BUTTERWORTH,
			MARGARET LEATHAM.


TENEDERLY LOVE ON.
How trustful is the heart and glad
	That loves as in its youthful days,
	Still all around the sunshine plays,
And trills the song bird never sad.
Enriched the soul by love divine,
	Though low’ring clouds may dark appear,
	Soon radiant light the way makes clear,
To those who singing upward climb.
To have, to hold, to prize, to love,
	New life imparts and youth renews;
	Cling close to those ye ne’er would lose,
And cherish them all things above.
Our friends are those we loved before,
	In other worlds, afar, unknown;
	Those mem’ries come when silent, lone,
And fill our hearts with spirit love.
Love is the chain that willing binds
	Its links of purest, brightest gold,
	Annealed, their trust to constant hold
Communion with congenial minds.
Make sacrifice before Love’s shrine,
	Burn incense there from day to day,
	And worship render while you may,
Then sacred trust shall e’er be thine.
Love maketh off’ring to its own,
	In thrilling language, soft and low,
	A stranger heart may never know,
Though softly breathed in undertone.
Love, unassuming, solace finds,
	Ne’er surfeits with expressions bold,
	Is as a rose that leaves enfold
Before ’tis kissed by soft south winds.
Then tenderly love on for aye,
	Those cherished in the years agone,
	E’en till the coming glorious dawn
Shall usher in that perfect day.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	At this time three great meetings are
in progress. Delegates from every civil-
ized nation are in session at The Hague
for the purpose of lessening the evils and
the frequency of war, and of promoting
the use of arbitration as a means of settle-
ment of international disputes. On the
shores of the Atlantic the Jamestown Ex-
position advertises the greatest military
and naval display the world has ever seen
in time of peace. On the shores of the
Pacific, in the “City of Angels,” the as-
sociation which represents the largest
body of educators in the world has met
to discuss the latest problems of educa-
tion. Shall we plant ourselves on the
side of peace or of war? Will the advo-
cacy of peace raise a generation of weak-
lings? Has anyone ever dared to call
William Penn a weakling? He was as
brave and courageous as his father, the
admiral. As soon as the three and a half
millions of teachers in the schools of the
civilized world shall begin in earnest and
with skill to inculcate sentiments of peace
and the principles of justice and fair deal-
ing in the treatment of weaker nations
we may hope for the limitation of arma-
ments and the dawn of an era of peace
that is worthy of the disciples of the
Prince of Peace.—Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.
	
	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		JULY, 1907


[Column 1]
THE FIRST LITERARY SOCIETY IN UTAH.
	It has generally been admitted that
New England took the lead, or perhaps
one should say Boston and its vicinity, in
progressive tendencies towards literary
attainments, and it has been stated that
woman’s clubs and literary societies orig-
inated in Boston, or in the Far East.
	In Madam Severance’s book entitled
the “Mother of Clubs,” she gives her ex-
perience and some of her ideas on the
subject, and data, etc. She says, “To
make a satisfactory record, I must begin
with the advent of the club-idea in my
own mind in the early fifties while living
in Cleveland.”
	Then she explains that fifteen years of
her early married life were spent there,
though she was born and reared in New
York. It was a frontier town then with
very few intellectual resources, though
there were schools and churches galore,
and a library association. Afterwards,
when in Boston and meeting some of the
“eminent wise men and women in the
East,” she says “I was especially attracted
by Emerson and Alcott, for whom parlor
meetings were occasionally arranged.”
She was anxious to live in Massachusetts
so as to have her sons go to Harvard, and
so she herself could meet “the wise wo-
men in literature” on some ground of “fel-
lowship and service.” Mr. Alcott informed
her, if she wanted to live in Boston for
its broader and finer atmosphere, that
would be no disappointment, but to meet
easily “the wise women” would be diffi-
cult, as they were “scattered in different
circles, churches and suburbs.”
	Another idea of such possibility as she
desired came from reading in the Eng-
lish Woman’s Journal, of the formation 
of clubs for women in England.
	Mrs. Severance cherished this hope,
this idea in her heart, it was a project
which she agitated gently during the first
three years after she had settled in Bos-
ton. She became a member of the board
of the New England Hospital for women
and children; also one of the “Sanitary
Commission,” during the civil war, and
other public measures of a similar kind.
The possibility of the club-idea evolved in
a series of parlor meetings.
	Notwithstanding the years intervening
between the thought of women coming
together in a society for intellectual pur-
suits and advancement, it was not until
March 10, 1868, that officers were elected,

[Column 2]
a constitution adopted and a systematic
society begun.
	Without going into any of the details,
which are really of very great interest,
we only desire to state that in the far
West, viz., Nauvoo, Illinois, a society for
woman’s higher education and advance-
ment had sprung up almost without effort
and was fully organized for progressive
work as early as March 17, 1842, twenty-
six years before this woman’s society in
Boston. On May 30, 1868, the first meet-
ing to introduce the New England Club
to the public was held in Chickering Hall.
At this meeting were such able friends
and advisors as Ralph Waldo Emerson,
James Freeman Clarke, Jacob Manning,
John Weiss, O. B. Frothingham, Thomas
Wentworth Higginson, Bronson Alcott,
Julia Ward Howe, and Mrs. Edna D.
Cheney.
	Without in the least disparaging any
effort put forth or any endeavor to bring
together social forces and to create a cen-
ter of valuable activity, we only desire to
show that even at an earlier period in
the very heart of the desert, here in a
country unknown, as it were, men and
women formulated a similar society to
that of which Mrs. Severance speaks with
such justifiable pride. The facts are hard-
ly known today even to our own young
people in regard to this society, of which
the writer purposes now to give a brief
statement while some of the active
members of that organization are still
living.

THE POLYSOPHICAL ASSOCIATION.
	Early in the settlement of Utah, even
amidst the struggle for existence, the
drift of thought of some of these remark-
able pioneer men and women tended to-
wards breadth of thought and higher in-
tellectuality. It seems to the writer at
this time that it is as striking an instance
of this nature as history records anywhere.
The endeavors of those engaged in this
literary work were to enlarge, enlighten
and cultivate the powers of the human
soul—this was the supreme idea of its
founders. When the people came, the
first thought was to make homes and
raise crops; they had brought with them
a printing press which may still be seen,
they established a newspaper, the Des-
eret News, which still retains its name.
They founded a university and they did
many wonderful things; but it is of the
association of men and women of ad-
vanced ideas that the writer desires to
tell in this desultory article.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow saw the need
for timely action and in his own home
laid the foundation for the first high
school in Utah and from that eventually
grew the Polysophical Society or gather-
ing for social, literary and general culti-
vation of mind and manners.
	This society continued with phenome-
nal success; it numbered among its mem-
bers those, both men and women, who
had not only broad views, but education,
culture and innate refinement even
though they were pilgrims in a desert
land.
	There are poems and prose articles in
print that date as far back as 1854 and 1855,
the precise date is unfortunately not
known to the writer, but the exercises
were all of a high quality: music, recita-
tions, essays, papers on various subjects.
The meetings were exceedingly interest-

[Column 3]
ing. President Brigham Young was one
of the first supporters and patrons of this
original society, and encouraged his fami-
ly to contribute of their talents to the
success of the society, which he attended
regularly. Among those who were mem-
bers known to the writer, were Apostle
Lorenzo Snow, his sister the celebrated
poet Eliza R. Snow, Hon. Wm. Ed-
dington, Hon. Samuel W. Richards, Hon.
Claudius V. Spencer, Hon. Amasa M. Ly-
man, the renowned author, poet and edi-
tor Henry W. Naisbitt, Hugh Findley,
James McKnight, W. G. Mills, David
Candland, Charles W. Bassett, Charles
Lambert, Gilbert Clements, John B.
Kelley, Leo Hawkins, Isaac Bowman,
F. A. Mitchell, W. S. Godbe, Judge W.
W. Phelps, James McKinnon, John
Lyon, Harry Bowring, Philip Margetts
and others.
	Musical contributors: Louisa K. Spen-
cer, pianist; Sarah Kay, guitar, Helena
Richards, organ; Daniel Olson and Ja-
cob Hutchinson, violin; W. C. Dunbar,
bagpipes.
	Of gifted women who contributed es-
says and papers, songs and hymns: Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, Margaret P. Young,
Hannah T. King, a very gifted English
woman, author and writer; and Hannah
Cornaby, also an English woman, and
another very notable writer, Margaret
Sear. There were also of celebrated wo-
men, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M.
Kimball, Josephine Ursenbach, Zina D.
H. Young, Susan Dudley, Eleanor Pratt,
Presendia L. Kimball, Sarepta L. Hey-
wood. These are a few names recalled
from memory, as we have no list or re-
cord for reference.
	The following paragraph from the Bi-
ography of Lorenzo Snow, written by his
sister Eliza R. Snow, seems a fitting finale
for this article and will give our readers
an idea of the order observed and the
characteristic tone of the meetings:
	“The association met once in two
weeks in my brother’s hall, which was
decorated in a manner to correspond with
the occasion. The grand aim in getting
up the programme was to awaken an in-
terest by riveting the attention from the
opening to the close. To secure this ef-
fect the parts allotted to each were full
of point and vigor and no one was al-
lowed more than fifteen minutes. The
speeches, songs, readings, recitations, in-
strumental music, or guitar, organ, piano
and bagpipes were all precisely assigned,
and sufficient time given for preparation.
In order to preserve quietude and pro-
found silence, the one who was appointed
master of ceremonies was seated beside a
table in the center of the hall, with pen-
ciled notes on small slips of paper, in-
forming each one when the precise time
for his or her part would arrive, so the
name was not called. A small lad wear-
ing an appropriate badge moved quietly
around and presented the notes as ad-
dressed, and a light touch on a small bell
gave the signal of the moment. All were
strictly enjoined to present nothing that
would have a tendency to annoy the feel-
ings of any and nothing was permitted
bordering on low witticism or that could
offend the most refined sensibility. A
sacred, elevating, refining influence at all
times pervaded the assembly inspiring
pure and lofty sentiments.	*	*	*
The effect of these varied exercises on in-
vited guests was captivating.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FULFILLMENT OF PROPHECY.
	At the present time the work of the
Lord is seemingly making more rapid
progress than ever before. The call for
Elders to proclaim the Gospel in the
lands far away is greater and on every
hand one sees abundant proof that these
are the last days ushering in the fulness
of times, spoken of in the Scriptures by
the ancient prophets; and we who believe
in the restoration of the everlasting gos-
pel, through the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, cannot doubt the
fulfilment of the revelations given in this
day to the generations now upon the
earth. The daily events at home and
abroad are proof positive to every Latter-
day Saint, that it is more than ever
necessary to be on one’s guard to shun
evil and live uprightly, devoting time and
talents to the Master’s service.
	The women of Zion have every reason
to be grateful for the many blessings en-
joyed by them and the prosperous condi-
tions of the present day; the good homes
and pleasant surroundings after the toils
and struggles of past years. Few of the
younger generation know or can possibly
realize what this people have endured in
days gone by.
	The tendency of the young people
nowadays towards extravagance in dress,
and all sorts of luxuries and recreations,
is, to the serious-minded and thoughtful,
simply appalling. One cannot help re-
calling to mind the prophecies  concern-
ing the “Daughters of Zion,” with which
all students of the Bible are familiar.
Not that one would wish for a moment to
curtail real enjoyment, for youth is the
time for enjoyment; but frivolity and van-
ity and love of finery, often, one might
say almost invariably, leads the mind
astray, and frequently causes disaster
and ruin; sometimes irremediable. Those
who are aware to what these excesses
tend should not hesitate to lift a warning
voice, whether their admonitions are
heeded or not, for, if those who realize
the situation refrain from warning the
young and thoughtless of the dangerous
consequences of such a course taken in
extremes and excesses, because it seems
an unpleasant duty, it may be difficult to
justify themselves hereafter, and will not
one’s conscience itself condemn such lack
of moral courage? If anything can be done
by a united effort towards restraining the
evils that are gaining ground in the cities
of the Saints, there should be prompt
response from those who see this tenden-
cy, to any movement in this direction that
will help stem the tide. Surely the watch-
men on the towers are not asleep! The
Scripture says, Woe unto those that are at
ease in Zion. Does it not apply to the
present day most forcibly? It assuredly
does. Most of the Latter-day Saints be-
lieve the prophecies of the Prophet Isaiah
refer to the last days, and if so, they
should read the 3d chapter of Isaiah be-
ginning with the 16th verse.
	Probably most of those who rush into
these pastimes and recreations so strenu-
ously have no idea as to what it may lead;
they are innocent of evil; all the more
do they need the advice and warnings of
the mothers in Israel, whose duty it is to
correct evil, according to the instructions
given by the Prophet Joseph Smith to
the first  organization in that early day.
The Relief Society has this precedent to
follow; but as individuals we should each

[Column 2]
of us use our utmost influence against ex-
cesses of all kinds and improprieties in
personal dress and manners. We cannot
do too much in this direction if we are
actuated by pure motives and take a
broad view of the subject. In all these
matters, prayer and the Spirit of God is
essential, so that we may not be too se-
vere or overreach the mark. Wisdom
and prudence must be used in order to
know when and how to handle these mat-
ters that are of such vital importance to
the welfare and wellbeing of the youth of
Zion.
	Our people have been taught that they
should not follow after the vain and fool-
ish things of the world, but should design
their own apparel and let Babylon alone.
They have not listened to this counsel on-
ly in part. To be sure, very few of the
women of our faith have gone to extremes
in these directions, but there seems now
to be a crisis in these affairs, and who
knows to what it may lead!
	We have been warned and forewarned
of that which would befall those who are
“lovers of pleasure more than lovers of
God,’’and it is a well-known fact that those
who are partakers of things not good for
them, will be partakers also of the plagues
that follow disobedience. Therefore it
behooves the women of Zion to lift up
their voices in season (if not out of sea-
son) in warning, that the youth of Zion, of
whom we are all so justly proud, may at-
tain to that excellence in all things that
shall entitle them to the blessings and ful-
fillment of promises made to those who for
the sake of worshipping God according to
the dictates of their own consciences
came out from among those who perse-
cuted them into this then desert land
where they could be at peace.


OBITUARY.
ANN E. WEBSTER.
	We are again called to part with one of our
dearly beloved sisters in the death of Sister Ann
E. Webster, which occurred early Sunday morn-
ing, after a very short illness, indeed, we might say,
without any apparent suffering, never having
been confined to her bed, only a gradual failing of
her physical powers. In connection with her hus-
band, Brother Francis Webster, who had preceded
her to the great beyond a little over a year, their
memories will always be held in the highest es-
teem for the great and active interest they took in
the progress of this commonwealth.
	Sister Ann E. Parsons was born June 2, 1831, in
Wymondham, Norfolk, England. She became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1848, was married to Francis Web-
ster in London, December 5, 1855. They sailed
from Liverpool May 25, 1856, and arrived in Salt
Lake City on the last day of November the same
year, passing through all the hardships incident
to a journey across the plains with a handcart.
Her husband had deposited money in the Emigra-
tion Fund sufficient to pay for team and outfit, but
before they started word came from the presiding
authorities advising all who thought they could
do so to come with the handcarts, and use the
means deposited to assist others to emigrate. The
money thus deposited was the means of bringing
eleven persons, themselves included, and though
many died from cold and hunger, all of the eleven
arrived in safety; indeed their number had in-
creased, for Sister Webster’s eldest child was born
a few days before arriving in Salt Lake City.
	On December 15 that same year they arrived in
Cedar City, remaining here through their lives.
Sister Webster became a member of our first or-
ganization of sisters inaugurated that year—fifty
years ago last November. For many years she
acted as secretary of the grain committee, organ-
ized for the gathering and storing of grain for
the Relief Society. In the year 1886 she was
chosen president of our Relief Society, which posi-
tion she held for twelve years. Was counselor in
the Stake Presidency of the Relief Society for sev-
eral years. Her life has been an active one, both


in public and private, enduring many hardships
incident to the building up of homes in the early
settlement of this place. She was ever willing to
assist others in time of sickness and death. Her
family of six sons and two daughters are earnest
workers in the faith their parents embraced, all
of the sons having filled honorable missions, the
youngest one leaving home for England about a
month after his father’s death.
	The Pioneer fathers and mothers of this place
are leaving us one by one, and among our Relief
Society workers their absence is noticeable and
felt. In the latter part of February Sister Mary
Wood, one of the earliest residents of Cedar City,
after a long sickness, was called home. Sister
Wood had been a member of our Society since its
first organization, assisting in every way as far as
her health would permit. She has left a numer-
ous posterity to follow her good example and em-
late her virtues. Her daughters are all active work-
ers in our Society.	J. P. MACKELPRANG,
				Cor. Sec. Relief Society.


MARTHA B. HOLDAWAY.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Martha
B. Holdaway.
	Sister Holdaway was born October 12, 1839, in
Washington, Erie Co, Penn. and departed this life
May 18, 1907. She was the daughter of Benjamin
and Electa Gardener, and the wife of Daniel
Webster Holdaway. She was the mother of seven
children—four girls and three boys, six of whom
survive her.
	The officers of the Deweyville Relief Society of
the Box Elder Stake of Zion, have prepared the
following resolutions:
	Whereas, our Eternal Father has seen fit to call
home one of His most earnest workers in His
cause, therefore be it resolved that we, the mem-
bers of this Society, offer our earnest sympathy,
and mourn our loss with the bereaved family.
	Resolved, that we do humbly testify that we
have greatly appreciated her noble works. The
leading traits of her character were charity, love
and humility. She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint; and her light will shine before
us, both in time and in eternity. We realize that
she is enjoying the rest of the faithful, and that
she will come forth in a glorious resurrection,
crowned with eternal life.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded on
our Relief Society record, also published in the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	In behalf of the Deweyville Relief Society.
		HANNAH E. LOVELAND, President.
		MARGARET JOHNSON,
		SARAH H. MARBLE, Counselors.
		BASHUA A. CHAPMAN, Asst. Sec.

	Afflictions sore long time she bore,
	Physicians were in vain,
	Till God did please to give her ease
	And free her of her pain.
	Now she’s gone we’ll not recall her
	From a paradise of bliss,
	Where no evils can befall her, 
	In a changing world like this.
	Her loved name will never perish
	Nor her mem’ry crown the dust,
	For the Saints of God will cherish
	The remembrance of the just.
BASHUA A. CHAPMAN, Asst. Sec.


LEAH PYNE.
	Whereas: God our Eternal Father, in His Di-
vine wisdom, has taken from our midst our belov-
ed sister and fellow-laborer. Sister Leah Pyne, an
earnest worker in the Relief Society of the Fourth
ward of Provo, of the Utah Stake of Zion;
	Whereas: In her separation from us, we have
lost from our number a wise counselor whose pre-
cept and example have, both in public and private
life been of a nature to elevate mankind and draw
them nearer to the fountain of all truth,
	Therefore, be it Resolved: that we the officers
and members of said Relief Society, extend our
condolence and sympathy to the bereaved family
of the deceased, and recognizing in her removal
our great loss, but realizing that the Hosts of
Heaven will rejoice on her arrival among them,
we humbly bow in submission to the Divine will
of our Father in Heaven.
	And be it Further Resolved. That a copy of
these resolutions be placed upon the records of
the Relief Society and a copy presented to the
family.
		Signed:	MRS. MARGARET WATSON,
				MRS. EMMA ASHWORTH,
				MRS. ELIZA A. SPERRY,
								Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference
held at Jensen, June 6, 1907. President
Sarah M. Colton presiding. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of sing-
ing, prayer, roll call and reading of min-
utes.
	Opening address by Sister Sarah M.
Colton, she also reported the stake as im-
proving. Reports were given from all the
wards except Mt. Dell, all are in good
condition.
	Song from Glines Relief Society by
Miss Effie Johnson and company. Essay
from Mt. Dell Relief Society written by
Mrs. Mary J. Searle and read by the
secretary Mrs. Phebe A. Merkley. Re-
citation from Jensen Relief Society by
Miss Leah Timothy.
	Bishop George Billings of Jensen spoke
of the organization of the Relief Society
and the work of the sisters, he felt to wel-
come all that had gathered together.
	Mrs. Harriett Goodrich gave a report
of the General Conference held in Salt
Lake City also of the General Relief So-
ciety Conference.
	Singing and benediction by C. F. B.
Sybert.
	Afternoon session: We continued our
services by the choir singing, and prayer
by Bro. Edward Longhurst. Singing and
other opening exercises. General and
local officers of the Relief Society were
sustained.
	A lecture on Faith from the Vernal Re-
lief Society by Mrs. Mary Gibson. An
Essay from Naples Relief Society entitled
"Influence of Woman" by Mrs. Rhoda
Goodrich. Sister Goodrich also spoke at
some length on a great many subjects.
	A song from Maeser Relief Society by
Clara C. Hacking and others.
	Mrs. Richardson related some of her
experience in the mission field in Scotland
which was very interesting.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett bore a strong
testimony, also gave some counsel in re-
gard to the plan gotten up for the Relief
Society work and of the duties of the
teachers, spoke of gathering grain for
storage.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Colton spoke of the good
the Relief Society had done in regard
to making means for the Uintah Stake
Tabernacle, she thanked the people of
Jensen for their hospitality.
	Singing, "How firm a foundation."
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bro. Joel Bascom.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY,
						Secretary.
		WEBER STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Weber Stake of Zion
was held in the Relief Society Hall, in
Ogden, June 13, 1907, at 10 a. m. and 1:30
p. m., President Jane S. Richards presid-
ing. Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff and
representatives from nearly all of the 26
wards were in attendance. Of the breth-

[Column 2]
ren, there were Elder Franklin S. Rich-
ards of Salt Lake City, Weber Stake
President Lewis W. Shurtliff, Patriarch
David McKay, and Bishop Robert Mc-
Quarrie.
	Despite the stormy day, the hall was
nearly filled with attentive listeners and
an excellent spirit was manifest through-
out the entire conference. The hall has
been newly papered and presents a rest-
ful, neat and tasteful appearance that is
well in harmony with the hallowed influ-
ence that abides within its walls.
	President Jane S. Richards and Coun-
selor Emily M. Shurtliff each spoke words
of encouragement and advice to those
present, urging all to a faithful discharge
of their duties.
	The reports showed the society in all
the wards in good working order, though
but few have been successful in gathering
the young mothers into this grand organ-
ization. However their numbers are in-
creasing as evidenced by their presence
at the conference.
	The brethren came freighted with bless-
ings for the Relief Society workers; their
counsels were wise and fatherly and their
words of appreciation and commendation
will be a stimulus to all who were in at-
tendance. 
	Elder Franklin S. Richards spoke on
the importance of Relief Society work
and of the crowns awaiting those who
lives are spent in service for others. No
matter how small the act of kindness; no
matter how lowly our position, we are
greater than queens and our reward is
sure. Spoke of the marvelous work of
of the boy prophet—the revelations and
the grand code of laws he brought forth,
—of his magnetic power which even the
world had to acknowledge; of his success-
ors, not like Joseph, but each the right
man in the right place and at the ap-
pointed time to fulfil their special part in
this gigantic work. Referred to our beau-
tiful building and the spiritual influence
that broods within its walls, and prayed
that the same might ever abide within
us; that the Lord would pour out the
balm of His spirit upon all, even as they
had poured it upon others; that no mis-
fortune might ever come without its ac-
companying balm and blessing and that
we might all meet in the eternal worlds,
there to dwell forever.
	Stake President Lewis W. Shurtliff re-
ferred to the shortness of life and the pass-
ing away of many of our valiant ones,
and the need of the younger ones taking
hold of the work, of whom we have an
army of noble sons and daughters. It is
not so much a question of how long we
live, as of how much we accomplish.
	Patriarch David McKay spoke more
especially to the widows, giving words of
comfort and cheer and showing that their
loved ones were near and ready to aid in
time of need; also touched on work for
our dead.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie commended
the sisters for their good works; also re-
ferred to the shortness of time and the
rapidity with which this work is being ac-
complished.
	Altogether a most enjoyable time was
had, even "a time of refreshing from the
Lord."
			NELLIE BECRAFT,
				Assistant Secretary.

[Column 3]
		POCATELLO STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Pocatello Stake was held at McCammon,
June 12th, 1907, President Maria R. Hyde
presiding.
	There were present, besides members
of the Stake Board, Counselor Ida Smoot
Dusenberry and Sister P. Y. Beatie of
the general Board, also Henry S. Wood-
land of the Stake Presidency, and several
Bishops of the Stake.
	Unfortunately there was an almost con-
tinual down-pour of rain, commencing
early in the morning, and for that rea-
son there was not so large an attendance
as was desired.
	After the usual opening exercises, Pres-
ident Maria R. Hyde welcomed the breth-
ren and sisters, expressing her regret at
the condition of the weather which had
prevented many from attending the con-
ference. Eight ward organizations were
represented out of the twelve in the stake.
	President Hyde reported the general
condition of the Society; said that we are
solving problems that older stakes have
met and solved years ago. We are now
engaged in promoting the building of
granaries—we expect to have three ward
granaries and one district granary built
this year; the sisters are doing as well as
they can under existing circumstances.
	Sister Beatie rejoiced that we are pre-
paring to build granaries. Advised the
sisters to make their homes pleasant and
prepare their children for their life's
work, also spoke of the nurse class.
	President Woodland spoke of the noble
work performed by the sisters of the Re-
lief Society. Advised the sisters to hon-
or and sustain the Priesthood.
	Sister Larsen of the Grant ward gave a
lecture on repentance. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m.
	On reassembling, after opening exer-
cises, Sister Dusenberry addressed the
congregation. Spoke of the feeling of
timidity that comes over us when called
upon to speak; its value lies in the fact
that it tends to make us more humble.
Advised the mothers to be patient with
their children, sympathize with them, be
companions to them, and make home
pleasant and a desirable place for them.
Related stories illustrating these truths.
	Sister Martha Scadden of the Pocatello
ward gave a lecture from the Book of
Mormon. Song by Master Clifford Wood-
land of the Marsh Center ward.
	Counselor Matilda Smith advised the
mothers to remember and relate the
beautiful stories told by Sister Dusenber-
ry, to their children; also spoke on the
storing of wheat. Bishop Boyce spoke
on this subject, exhorting the sisters not
to neglect this great duty. Bishop Mc-
Clellan had enjoyed the instructions giv-
en. Said we should read the instructions
with our children, and learn to govern
ourselves, that we may be better able to
govern them. After singing and prayer,
the conference adjourned for six months.
	ELIZABETH PRIEST, Secretary.
		BLACKFOOT STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Blackfoot Stake was held at Blackfoot,
July 15th, 1907, President Lucy A. Steers
presiding.
	After the opening exercises, President
Lucy A. Steers expressed the pleasure


[Column 1]
it gave her to see so many present
this stormy morning. Reported the
Blackfoot Stake in good working or-
der. Spoke of the annual fund and hoped
we would all be prompt in this. Verbal
reports were given by Matilda Rupp,
Blackfoot; Lost River by Stake President
Lucy A. Steers; Riverside by Maggie
Taylor; Groveland, by Alice Yancy; Ba-
salt by Mellie D. Dye; Woodville by Mary
Cunningham; Goshen by Sophia Soren-
sen.
	Sister Mary A. C. Lambert, missionary
from the Relief Society General Board,
was very pleased to be present, but was
sorry to hear of such a lack of attendance;
said the Relief work was a noble labor,
and she enjoyed it very much. Thought
we could visit the sick to cheer and com-
fort them, as this did much good; we as
mothers should teach our children the
law of tithing also teach them to be hum-
ble and prayerful. Also spoke of our aged
President and said she had the Relief So-
ciety work at heart. Although she is not
able to travel, her thoughts are with you
all. Advised the mothers to look after
their girls and boys and teach them to be
virtuous and truthful and live pure and
holy lives.
	Song by Louisa Herbert.
	Stake President James Duckworth was
glad to meet with the sisters and felt
paid already for coming; also glad to hear
the good reports.
	Counselor John F. Shelly was very
glad to be present and partake of the
good spirit; knew that if we all did our
duty, we would be blessed in our labors.
	Counselor Juliette Blackburn was
pleased to see so many present; glad that
we had our sisters from Salt Lake with
us; knew we were blessed with the spirit
of the Lord. Spoke on Temple work.
Thought we ought to have a band of
good lively teachers to work up an inter-
est in these associations; urged all to be
more prayerful and strive to do right.
	Afternoon session of the Relief Society
Conference, President Lucy A. Steers
presiding.
	Reports were given by Lucy Christen-
sen of Moreland ward; Thomas by Ber-
tha Noach; Shelly by Elizabeth Kelly;
Kimball by Alida Robertson. The re-
ports were very good in a financial way,
but a lack of attendence was reported by
all. President Lucy A. Steers thanked
all for coming out to report their asso-
ciations.
	Sister Woodbury of the St. George
Stake was glad to be present; also glad
to think she was counted worthy of being
one of God’s children; advised the moth-
ers to teach their little children to pray
and ask the blessing on the food; “do not
let your children roam the streets.”
Spoke of how she enjoyed working in the
Temple; thought we should all spend
more of our time for the Lord as our
time is short here on earth.
	Sister Mary A. C. Lambert spoke of
the many hardships she had endured for
the Gospel’s sake, but knew the Lord will
bless us all if we seek Him in prayer. She
also earnestly spoke of the Nurses’ class
to be taught in Salt Lake this year;
thought we Latter-day Saints should have
our own nurses and doctors; we are cer-
tainly the most blessed people on the
face of the earth.
	Stake President Sarah Carruth of the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Asso-

[Column 2]
ciation, said she was delighted to be pres-
ent; we as mothers have a great work to
perform. Relief Society workers and Mu-
tual workers should go hand in hand.
Spoke of the evils of fault-finding.
	Bishop Frank C. Parkinson felt it an
honor to stand before the sisters in this
conference; referred to his labors as a
missionary and said he had received a
great deal of help from the Relief Socie-
ty of the Blackfoot ward. Said, “Moth-
ers, remember your daughters and teach
them to live pure and virtuous lives and
marry men of our own faith.”
	President Lucy A. Steers felt we had
had a good time together, and desired to
thank our visiting sisters, and also wished
them to carry our heartfelt thanks to
Salt Lake to the General Board, for
sending us such good sisters. We as a
Stake Board very much desire to have
the hearty support of the new Stake pres-
ident. Thanked all who had taken part.
	Singing and benediction and adjourn-
ment.
			ROSALIA NIELSEN,
						Secretary.
		SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Snow-
flake stake was held at Snowflake, June
16th, 1907, Sister Alice Merrill Horne of
the General Board, present.
	As conference was held on Sunday,
Bishop Hunt took charge of the open-
ing exercises and then gave the meeting
into the hands of R. S. Stake President
Mary J. R. West, who gracefully welcomed
all to conference and expressed gratitude
for the visit of Sister Horne.
	Snowflake, Taylor, Shumway, Show-
low and St. Joseph branches were re-
ported by Sisters Nellie M. Smith, Mary
A. Standifird, Dicia Denham, Lucinda
Reidhead and Nina Porter respectively.
Written reports from Woodruff and Pine-
dale were read. All were represented as
doing fairly well and pleased with the
success of the Book of Mormon lessons.
	Ethel Porter Westover read an excel-
lent paper: “Restrain the Evil Tenden-
cies of the Child-”
	Brother Ninian Miller spoke very inter-
estingly on “The Condition of Women
before the Prophet organized the Relief
Society.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne addressed
the meeting. Said President Bathsheba
W. Smith sent her love and greetings to
all the sisters. Spoke lovingly of her and
gave a brief sketch of her early life. She
placed great confidence in the stake and
ward presidents and desires them, to a
great extent, to work out their own ideas.
The subject of social purity among our
young people has been suggested as a sub-
ject for the missionaries to speak on.
	In the afternoon session, the meeting
was again given to the sisters after the
administration of the sacrament. The
first speaker was Counselor Emma L.
Smith, who spoke on Joseph Smith’s ef-
forts to place woman in her true position.
Her remarks were interesting and could
not fail to make the congregation think
more than once of her subject.
	Sister Mary Morgan, of the St. Johns
Stake, also addressed the conference.
Spoke of the comfort she had received
from attending Relief Society meetings,
and encouraged the sisters, old and young,
to become members.

[Column 3]
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne gave a very
beautiful address on art.
	Officers of the General and Stake Board
were sustained by vote. In addition to
the Stake Board, Marie West Riggs was
sustained as Book of Mormon instructor,
and Annie Rogers assistant secretary.
	Interspersed among the speaking was a
song by Miss Ellen Adair: “Count your
ManyBlessings” also a quartette by young
ladies under the direction of Miss Mabel
Stratton, and some sayings of Brigham
Young by Master Lyman Horne. There
was also an evening session in which Sis-
ter A. M. Horne gave a lecture on house-
keeping.
	Sister May H. Larson gave an excel-
lent address on “What the Relief Socie-
ty work has done for woman.”
	Elders James M. Flake and Alof Lar-
son of the Stake Presidency made en-
couraging remarks.
	There was an organ recital by Mrs.
Nellie Hunt, a recitation by Master La-
zelle Smith, and a quartette under the
direction of Miss Adlee Lindsay.
	There was a larger attendance than we
usually have at the Relief Society con-
ferences and a genuine good feeling
seemed to be enjoyed by all.
		DELLA F. SMITH, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SOUTHERN ALBERTA.
A REGION OF FAT FIELDS AND FULL GRAN-
				ARIES.
	Probably no part of the continent at the
present time is undergoing more rapid ad-
vancement and receiving greater increase
in population than is that particular part
of the vast British dominion on the north
commonly known as the Canadian North-
west. Until recently figuring merely as
territories, with the disadvantages which
such a status implies, Alberta and Sas-
katchewan have now bloomed out as fully
equipped and more widely extended
provinces, their former sister terri-
tory of Assinaboia having been wiped
off the map through the changes in their
boundaries, and her loss accruing to their
great gain. Even before these changes
had taken place, the tide of immigation
from the east and south had strongly set
in, and under prosperity’s magic touch all
industries and interests began to glow.
But during last year and this, the move-
ment toward the "newest and last West," 
and the brightening of its prospects, have
been truly marvelous, if not indeed al-
most unexampled in the record of those
mysterious and irresistible migrations
where peaceful armies of the children of
men swarm out in search of new lands in
which to make new homes.
	It is less than two decades since the
earliest of Mormon colonists crossed the 
international boundary and pitched their
tents or outspanned their teams on the
broad prairies of "Sunny Southern Al-
berta." They found a goodly land, and
they have prospered exceedingly. A doz-
en or more thrifty, well-built towns—
some of them already aspiring to the met-
ropolitan conveniences of waterworks
systems and electric lights—attest the
prudent care with which these settlers
carried with them and put into practice
the lessons learned in their Utah homes. 
In a district so vast, upon acres so mag-


[Column 1]
nificent and limitless, large farms and
ranches were naturally the fashion. But
these Utahns knew the value of the school-
house and the meetinghouse—the social
aspects of life’s stern struggle were well
remembered. Hence their compact vil-
lages clustered round the more or less
pretentious structures where the young
assemble for instruction and all for wor-
ship, and where in the long winter even-
ings the monotony of existence is relieved
by concerts, lectures, dances and amateur
or peripatetic theatricals. 
	At the time of this writing, the line of
travel between these towns, whether by
train or wagon, is flanked by miles upon
miles of waving fields of golden grain.
Far as the eye can reach across the broad
level prairie, it meets this same rich pros-
pect. Now and again at close range may
be seen a group of harvesting machines,
each drawn by four stout horses, these
reapers swinging along one behind anoth-
er in joyous procession, cutting down a
wide swath of the ripened, ruddy crop,
and tossing out a steady stream of fat,
wealth-laden sheaves.
	Perhaps a group of aborigines from the
nearby Indian agency may be seen, fol-
lowing in the wake of the harvesters,
gathering the bundles into shocks or
stooks. These natives assist greatly in
the solution of the local labor problem,
white help being wholly insufficient in
quantity where farming is done on so stu-
pendous a scale; and the gaudy raiment
of the squaws,with the flashing ornaments
affected by both sexes, together with the
adjacent cluster of picturesque tepees and
the band of diminutive and almost inevita-
bly piebald ponies, lend color and variety
to the scene. Anon the mellow hum of
the early thresher may be heard, for in
this land of sudden and severe changes of
weather, the prudent farmer loses no time
between harvest and threshing—his anx-
ieties are not over till his grain is safely
stored in his bins or received into the
capacious maw of the lofty elevators or
broad warehouses which line the railway
track. Fierce and greedy in their appe-
tite are some of these monster steam
threshers. They burn either coal or straw,
and when working in good grain are capa-
ble of “shelling out” a bushel of clean
wheat every twelve to fifteen seconds. As
sixty to seventy-five bushels make a load
for the ordinary wagon and team, it will
be realized that a considerable train of
wagons are required to haul away the
grain from the thresher to the granary or
elevator. These are met along the road
or are noticed gathered about the dusty,
whirring, busy separator; and in the near
vicinity is observed also the long, low,
canvas-covered mess-wagon, which is
trailed about from field to field, being as
indispensable a part of the caravan as the
water-wagon, the coal-wagon or even the
engine itself. A well-arranged mess-wag-
on is a model of compactness and is as
convenient as such a combined kitchen,
pantry, store room, dining room and
cook’s bed-room can be made. Its pre-

[Column 2]
siding genius is usually a buxom young
woman, frequently the foreman’s daugh-
ter; and she has as assistant a younger girl
—where possible her sister—who waits on
the table during meals, helps in the dish-
washing afterwards, and between times
furnishes company for the otherwise lone
woman with the outfit.  Cooking for a
thresher crew is no sinecure; for with
breakfast at daylight, supper at “early
candle-light,” dinner at high noon, and a
generous distribution of wide, thick wedges
of pie between regular meal times, if the
machine stops for a few minutes—for your
thresher-man eats every time he gets a
chance, and all the time has an appetite
little less ravenous than the machine he
travels with—this would seem to provide
a program sufficiently strenuous for the
most industrious and exacting devotee of
the culinary art.
	Nearer the towns are the fields devoted
to the culture of that splendid wealth
producer, the sugar beet; and here, later
in the season, will be found, not only the
Lamanites of both sexes and all ages, to-
gether with their ponies and their droves
of dogs, but the white man also and his
whole family, all engaged in plowing,
pulling, “topping” and hauling the juicy
saccharine root. The skill, precision
and rapidity with which the squaws
and children whack off the tops of the
beets with a broad villanous-looking knife,
holding the beet in one hand and wield-
ing the weapon with the other, suggest
both careful practice and native dexter-
ity, for the keen blade seems to make
its way to the hairsbreadth of the proper
place and angle of decapitation.
	Within the limits of the town or vil-
lage proper are gardens whose every
product would be a prize-winner, if shown
in almost any other clime. In the
matter of vegetables, these Canada set-
tlements can hardly be surpassed, if
indeed equalled. For size, flavor, crisp-
ness—whatever the term is that means
the best that can be grown from new,
fresh, vigorous, fertile soil—the epicure
who dotes on the succulent products
which come health-laden from the bosom
of Mother Earth must not reckon his
experience filled or his soul satisfied un-
til he has tasted the good green garden
stuff of Southern Alberta.
	Of the great stock growing industry,
the rich fat-producing grasses, the sleek,
saucy “cattle upon a thousand”—not
“hills,” but prairies (there are no hills
worth mentioning)—I have as yet said
nothing. Much also might be written
about the untold and incalculable coal
measures underlying the whole country,
and numerous other splendid resources
and industries. But the limits of this
paper have been now reached, and there
remains space but for a concluding
word.
	Allusion has been made to the prosper-
ty now smiling upon the people. But it
should be borne in mind that to this
happy condition they have come up
through a full measure of tribulation.

[Column 3]
The climate is rigorous, at times severe.
It is a region of extremes of weather. In
years of drouth—and of these there have
been quite enough—it would seem that
even a lizard or a sunflower would choke
to death. In seasons of rain it has sim-
ply poured, day after day, week after
week, until the whole country was
soaked full and the badger holes ran
water like living springs. Only last win-
ter there were several dreary weeks dur-
ing which the thermometer never regis-
tered better than ten degrees below zero,
ranging from that down to fifty below.
Then there is wind, and still more wind:
wind that brings blizzards with it, wind
that warms air and soil, and melts the
snow like magic; wind that seems to
scorch and wither with its hot breath,
wind that wafts moisture and refreshing
coolness over nature’s heated face. There
are potato bugs and cutworms, mange
and mosquitoes, and as varied and vigor-
ous a collection of noxious weeds as any
farmer would wish to see. But with all
this there is health and happiness, and
there is, and there is going to be more,
wealth. The people have passed through
their period of adversity, and their future
is radiant with promise. They have
learned by experience how to meet and
make themselves comfortable under the
conditions which exist and to which they
were aforetime unaccustomed. There is
hardly one who has not bettered his cir-
cumstances by going there—not one who
with the exercise of ordinary industry and
thrift can fail to prosper. From the
severity of their earlier struggles they
have come forth refined and improved.
The toils and hardships associated with
making a beginning, with getting a bare
living even, are now things of the past.
The comforts of life, nay the luxuries,
are now in evidence on every side. Bet-
ter cultivation has made better farms
and better crops. Machinery eases the
burden of the agriculturist. His wife and
daughters, relieved of the discourage-
ments andthe drudgery which bended
their bodies and benumbed their souls,
now find time for intellectual enjoyment
in societies for philanthropic work and
associations for mutual improvement. His
sons, though they have learned and are
not ashamed of the business of farming or
ranching, can go to college. He himself
can rest serenely in the evening of his
life, feeling that in bringing his family to
the new land he has put them in the
way of sound, healthy bodies, clear, pure
minds, the glorious independence that
comes from contact with and true affec-
tion for the soil, and the possession of a
goodly inheritance of fertile acres, a por-
tion of this footstool of our God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	The several stakes of Zion are hereby
notified that the Relief Society Nurse
Class for this year will begin in Septem-
ber with the first session of the L. D. S.
University.
	The important work is under the aus-
pices of the general Board of the Relief
Society, who desire the earnest co-opera-
tion of all ward and stake presidents.
		ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.,
						Instructor.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 36						SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1907.					No. 3


CONTENTS. 
								PAGE		
Henry W. Naisbitt...........Lydia D. Alder	17
Mary Anderson..............William Winter	17
General Relief Society Conference........	19
Notes and News.....................................19 & 24
Mothers’ Work:—Panguitch Stake.........	19
	Bear Lake Stake..............................	21
Relief Society Reports:—Emery Stake..	21
	Summit Stake.................................	21
	Wasatch Stake.................................	21
	Woodruff Stake...............................	22
	Nebo Stake.....................................	22
	Bear Lake Stake..............................	23
In Memoriam..........................................	23
Obituary..................................................	23
Editorial:—Patriotism and Suffrage.......	20
	Holland and the Cause of Peace.....	20
Poetry:—Mother..............H. W. Naisbitt	17
	A Memory System..Priscilla Leonard	18 
	I Would Arise and Go Unto My Father
	.......Thomas Wentworth Higginson	19
	The Brotherhood of Man............... 
	...........................Thomas McKellar	19


MOTHER.

Respectfully dedicated to Professor Kent.

The sweetest word in human lore,
Repeated most and thought of more,
Its music rings and means the same
Whene’er you speak that holiest name.
In spheres afar, in heaven above.
Where’er is heard the song of love!
It blends with motherhood in b iss, 
Its smiles, caress, or lingering kiss,
I here salute and bend the knee,
My mother, thou art all to me!	
And though removed from me afar,
Thou art for e’er my guiding star!
Thou art my hands, my feet, my whole,
The guardian of my childish soul,

		Chorus:

My mother dear, I hail thy name,
In every stage, from youth to fame, 
And I thy blessing oft implore,
When heart is weary, sick or sore,
My mother! oh, my mother!

Into thy presence-chamber, I,
In life’s mad rush oft freely fly;
Thy counsel lit my earliest years,
And oft I ask it now in tears.
Brave, true and steadfast, always right,
When mists obscured my clouded sight,
I turned to thee, as unto God,
His agent on earth’s rugged sod;
And often wish that thou wert nigh,
My sainted, sinless mother, here I sigh;
Come teach my wandering feet to tread
The path that you so bravely trod;
I know it leads, though weary, sore,
Back to the Father’s unlatched door.

My hair is whitening now, like hers,
And thought full oft my bosom stirs,
Shall I find welcome at her door,
When called to leave life’s changing
	shore?
Can I be free from stain of sin?
And hear her voice say, “Come in! come
	in!”
“I’ve longed to hear your voice—your
	song;
I’ve waited here and waited long
To hear you, with the choir above,
That anthem called 'Redeeming Love,'
Which makes the dome of heaven ring,
And every angel doth it sing;
You, too, have worked and toiled for
	this—
The acme of eternal bliss.”
				H. W. NAISBITT.


[Column 1]
		HENRY W. NAISBITT.

	How fitting that the author should
make “Mother” the last tracings of his
pen, or at least the last expression of his
poetic thought; Coming into the Infor-
mation Bureau a few days ago, where
long he had been a faithful and intelli-
gent worker, Brother Naisbitt gave a
printed copy of “Mother” to the writer
with the words, “The last I expect to
write this side of the Great Beyond.”
“Oh, not the last,” I cried, hoping to
discourage such depressing forebodings.
Then we talked of England, where I had
labored when he was one of the presid-
ency with President Platt D. Lyman.
As missionaries, we had traveled fn Scot-
land and Ireland, as well as in England.
On the same soul-inspiring scenes we had
gazed; together read out of Nature’s book
and talked of the works of God. Vividly
comes to mind the wonderful Giant’s
Causeway in Ireland, which we visited
with President Lyman and the Elders of
the Irish conference. Climbing up, be-
hind the rest, Brother Naisbitt and my-
self talked of these unexplained phases
of Nature and her beauties there re-
vealed. While surveying the Causeway,
mountain and sea, he said, “Sister Alder,
how will it be when we have no more
sea, when the waters shall be gathered
together as at first?” Looking on the
sea’s glistening, heaving expanse, I said,
perhaps with sadness, “I have not
thought of it. I have not thought of it.”
	Now perusing the poem, “Mother,”
how forcibly the thought impresses one,
that as the infant ever turns to the moth-
er for comfort, Sustenance and life, so in
the weakness of age, the soul instinct-
ively cries for “mother,” Her smiles,
her eyes of solicitude, a vision of her as
she was in days gone by, fires the heart
and mind.
	“My sainted, sinless mother,” I see
the sightless eyes now. as the author of
“Mother” turned them upon me, “True
and steadfast, always right.” Did way-
ward childhood think her always right?
Did not little restraints seem like huge
chords; her chiding irksome; her counsel
unrequited? No matter! 	Behold the
babe of years, tottering on the verge of
the grave, thinks she was “always right.”
Unconscious, perhaps, he has been, that
her dear, guiding hand has held his
through life, smoothed the rough places,
shunned the pitfalls through dark ravines
or on barren road. He may have felt
forsaken or alone on mountain top, where
icy breezes blow; but even there he nat-
urally in thought has turned to mother to
kiss the aching fingers and warm them
with her own.
	Oh, dear mother, ’tis your love that
makes your children whole; relieves aches
and pains; brings peace and consolation.
In the valley’s warmth and sunshine, the
glad, pulsing heart, full of exultation,
sometimes even then our thoughts turn to
mother. Not for comfort now, but a
benediction—a sharer in our joy. 	How
oft we find ourselves thinking of her—

[Column 2]
some trivial, every-day incident will
bring her vividly to mind! Ever beauti-
ful to us is our mother; none to us so
dear.

	The counsel given in earlier years
	Now we seek with falling tears.

“My hair is whitening now, like hers!”

	Now we can understand
	Why close she held our hand,
	The lovelight in her eyes—
	Faint glimpse of Paradise—
	Would shield from every snare;
	Will for us ever care,
	While we roam far from home;

	“I’ve longed to hear you sing ‘Redeem-
ing Love’—the song the angels sing.’’
Oh, may it be, that on that bed of pain,
the world now lost to sight, and faded 
earthly things away, he hears that glad
refrain. Not now life’s proud positions
come to mind; the brilliance felt not now
of song or pen; allurements that trip us
over; the clamorings of ambition — all
seem of no avail; but, mother who long
ago journeyed to an unknown shore, she
is his thought, his love.

	With trembling limbs and sightless eyes,
	He turns a child again.

	So as a little child, shall we see the
kingdom of heaven; as a little child
shall we enter in.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


MARY ANDERSON.
SKETCH OF QUEEN OF AMERICAN STAGE.

	The following extracts are from one of
a series of aticles on “Players: Past and
Present,” which appeared about a year
ago from the pen of the veteran dram-
atic critic, William Winter:
	The stage life of Mary Anderson was
comparatively brief (1875-1889), but it was
brilliant with achievement, and, in its hon-
esty, sincerity,  simplicity, radical worth
and beneficent influence, it was beautiful.
It was not all tranquility; it had its clouds
of care—“the very source and fount of
day,” as the poet Tennyson has told us,
is “dashed with wandering isles of night”
—but it was right in motive, it was free
from contention, it was devoid of reproach,
it was guided and governed by a noble
ambition, and its results were good.
	She made her first appearance on the
stage, when she was only sixteen years
old, at Barney Macauley’s Theater, in
Louisville, Kentucky, November 25, 1875.
	She came out as Juliet, and one who
was present declares that, notwithstand-
ing the crudity inseparable from youth
and inexperience, it was a performance
of extraordinary force, feeling and prom-
ise. Its paramount beauty, was its vocal-
ism. Miss Anderson’s voice, indeed, was
always her predominant charm: certain
tones in it—so thrilling, so full of wild
passion and inexpressible melancholy—
went straight to the heart, and brought
tears into the eyes. The voice is the ex-
ponent of the soul. You can paint your


[Column 1]
face; you can pad your person; you can
wear a wig; you can walk in shoes that
augment your height; you can, in various
ways, change your body; but your voice
will, sooner or later, reveal you as you
are. It seems unlikely that Miss Ander-
son’s melting, tragic tones were uttered
in any of her girlish impartments; but the
copious, lovely voice was there, and it
gained her first yictory. The time had
not yet come when she could, actually
and absolutely, embody Juliet. It did
come, and her success in that part was
decisive and unequivocal. The most ro-
mantic and the most passionate Juliet of
our epoch was that of Adelaide Neilson;
the most essentially womanlike and splen-
didly tragical Juliet that our stage has
known within the last fifty years was that
of Mary Anderson.
	Mary Anderson, on the stage, had to
make her way from comparative obscu-
rity, and at the first, contrary to common
belief, her pathway was not one of roses.
Artistically, however, she began “at the
top”—where, as Daniel Webster said,
there is always plenty of room. Genius
and beauty can, sometimes, so begin,
wisely and to advantage; but, in general,
that course is not judicious. The begin-
ner, in this case, acted on the advice of
Charlotte Cushman, who perceived her
natural endowments, and must have dis-
cerned in her an exceptional fitness for
the dramatic profession. Just as Burns
was born to write poety, Mary Anderson
was born to act. That fact the veteran
actress divined; and though firm in the
faith that, as she expressed it, “the art of
sailing a ship cannot be learned by enter-
ing at the cabin window,” she knew that
there are exceptions to all rules. The
origin of genius has not been ascertained.
It happens—and that is all we know
about it.
	The antecedents of Mary Anderson af-
ford no explanation of her proclivity for
the stage.
	She was born in the Eagle Hotel,
Sacramento, California, July 28, 1859.
Her father, Charles H. Anderson, was a
young Englishman who had come to
America to seek his fortune. He served
as an officer in the Confederate Army;
and died early in the Civil War. His
grave is in Magnolia Cemetery, at Mobile,
Alabama. Her mother, Antonia Leugers,
of Philadelphia, was a beautiful woman,
of German descent, and of rigorous Cath-
olic principles. Neither of her parents
was theatrical. Her mother, after some
time of widowhood, married Dr. Hamil-
ton Griffin, of Louisville, Kentucky, where,
for a time, Miss Anderson was an inmate
of a Roman Catholic convent school. She
was reared in the Catholic faith, by Fath-
er Anthony Miller, a Franciscan priest,
her mother’s uncle—a man of extensive
learning and exalted character. She left
school before she was fourteen years of
age. As a child she had seen some of the
performances of Edwin Booth, which had
touched her heart and fired her fancy. To
such a degree, indeed, was she influenced
by Booth’s acting that she learned some
of the parts she had seen him perform —
Hamlet, Richelieu, Wolsey and Richard
III—and acted them in private; and also
she learned and acted Schiller’s Joan of
Arc.  Her resolute purpose to become an
actress (for, even in girlhood, she mani-
fested exceptional strength of will) pre-
vailed over the scruples of most of her

[Column 2]
pious relatives. Doctor Griffin, her step-
father, speaking of that period in her ex-
perience, said that her insistence was irre-
sistible, and that, at last, he was con-
strained to go with her to the principal
theater of Louisville and ask for a trial
of her talents. Then came her perform-
ance of Juliet. The verdict was favor-
able, and the manager, Macauley—special-
ly incited thereto by an approving word
from the tragedian John McCullough—
gave to her a regular engagement, begin-
ning January 20, 1876, from which time
until the season of 1888-89 she was in con-
tinual practice of her profession.
	She first appeared in New York in 1877,
at the Fifth Avenue Theater, and there-
after she made annual tours of the coun-
try and so laid the foundation of a bril-
liant renown. Her professional ventures
in England ensued and she became a
favorite abroad as well as at home. Her
acting was seen with delight in Scotland
and Ireland, as well as in the provincial
cities of England.
	On June 17, 1890, she was married to
Mr. Antonio de Novarro, and since then
she has dwelt in retirement, only occasion-
ally emerging to read and to sing for the
benefit of the poor of London. Her home
is at Broadway, Worcestershire, England;
and her friends are glad to know that she
is—as she deserves to be—one of the hap-
piest women in the world.
	Fortunate in her choice of a career and
fortunate in her management of it, Mary
Anderson was especially fortunate in her
retirement from public life at a time when
her renown was at its height. To the
stage, and to society—so continuously and
deeply affected by the stage—her with-
drawal was not simply a deprivation, it
was a bereavement; for it greatly reduced
the public store of innocent pleasure,
and it greatly weakened the inspiring and
ennobling influence of the acted drama.
But her exertions had been great and
continuous; as an heroic actress, she had
reached the zenith of achievement; her
health required relief from care; and she
left the scene before the lights had begun
to darken and while yet a time remained 
for the enjoyment of that life of the af-
fections which is the chief blessing of our
mortal state. She did not take a formal
farewell of the theater. Her last appear-
ance occurred at Washington, in the
spring of 1889, and the last part that she
acted was Hermione.
	It is a sign of Mary Anderson’s nobility
that she attracted, and always kept, the
esteem and affectionate regard of such
noble natures as Edwin Booth, John Mc-
Cullough, Lawrence Barrett and Joseph
Jefferson, among actors and of Longfel-
low, Tennyson, Lord Lytton and Aubrey
de Vere, among poets. With Longfellow
she was a special favorite, and she de-
rived lasting benefit from his friendship
and his counsel. No person, indeed, ever
came near that exalted, benignant, gentle
spirit without reason for special gratitude.
Longfellow was the most authentic, com-
prehensive, sympathetic and important
of the poets of America. His works, while
expressing the better spirit of our country,
are a voice of human nature and a com-
fort to human hearts: and they possess
that perfection of form without which
poetic expression is incomplete and in-
effective. As a man he was the incarna-
tion of charity, generosity, sweetness and
grace; a man whom to know was to rev-

[Column 3]
erence, and the remembrance of whose
character and example is a continual im-
pulse to virtue. Nothing could better in-
dicate the essential benignity of Longfel-
low’s disposition than the remark he once
made to Miss Anderson: “Never lose an
opportunity of giving pleasure; it will
make you happier and better.”
	Words are unavailing to reproduce the
feeling that Mary Anderson’s acting in-
spired, when, at last, in the prime of her
development, she had attained to her full
intellectual and spiritual stature, and to
the full control of her extraordinary gifts.
Fair; tall; of an imperial figure; her fea-
tures regular; her changeful blue eyes,
placid as a summer lake or blazing with
the fire of roused imagination; her noble
head, enwreathed with its copious wealth
of golden hair; her smile, the diamond
sparkle of morning light; her gestures,
large, wide, graceful, free; her movement,
at times electrical with action, at times
pathetically eloquent of slow, wandering
grief or the stupor of despair; her voice,
clear, smooth, silvery, ranging through
many moods, from the ripple of arch,
bewitching mirth to the low moan of
anguish, the deep whisper of passion or
the clarion note of power—she filled the
scene with her presence, and she filled the
hearts of her audience with a refreshing
sense of delightful, ennobling conviction
of the possible loveliness and majesty of
the human soul. I think that this was the
sum of her service to art and to society.
Many pages might be written about elec-
trical points in her personations of charac-
ter—her denotement of Juliet’s desolation,
after parting, in the lonely midnight, from
the last human being whom she may ever
behold; her revelation of Hermione’s aw-
ful despair, when she covers her face with
her mantle, and falls in deathlike trance;
her simplicity and piquant archness when
giving the flowers, as Perdita, contrasted
with her soul-subduing agony in Bianca’s
supplication to her stony-hearted, exul-
tant, scornful rival; but that would require
the wide domain of an essay, and this is
but a glimpse. The decisive fact suffices
that this actress was one of the authentic
messengers of Heaven who shed a light on
this world and, in the hearts of its weary
workers, rekindled the sacred fires of hope
and trust.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A MEMORY SYSTEM.
Forget each kindness that you do
	As soon as you haye done it;
Forget the praise that falls to you
	The moment you have won it;
Forget each slight, each spite, each sneer;
	Wherever you may meet it.

Remember every kindness done
	To you, whate’er its measure;
Remember praise by others won
	And pass it on with pleasure;
Remember every promise made
	And keep it to the letter:
Remember those who lend you aid
	And be a grateful debtor.

Remember all the happiness
	That comes your way in living;
Forget each worry and distress,
	Be hopeful and forgiving;
Remember good, remember truth.
	Remember Heaven’s above you,
And you wiil find, through age and youth,
	True joys and hearts to love you.

Priscilla Leonard in Youth’s Companion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


I WOULD ARISE AND GO UNTO MY
			FATHER.

THOMAS WENTWORTH HIGGINSON.

To Thine eternal arms, O God,
	Take us, Thine erring children, in;
From dangerous paths too boldly trod,
	From wandering thoughts and dreams of sin.

Those arms were round our childish ways,
	A guard through helpless years to be;
Oh, leave not our maturer days;
	We still are helpless without Thee.

We trusted hope, and pride, and strength; 
	Our strength proved false, our pride was vain,
Our dreams have faded all at length—
	We come to Thee, O Lord, again!

A guide of trembling steps yet be!
	Give us of Thine eternal powers!
So shall all paths lead unto Thee,
	And life smile on like childhood’s hours.


THE BROTHERHOOD OF MAN.
	THOMAS MCKELLAR.
lf any man must fall for me to rise,
	Then seek I not to climb. Another’s
		pain
I choose not for my good. A golden
	chain,
A robe of honor is too poor a prize
To tempt my hasty hand to do a wrong 
	Unto a fellow man. This life hath woe
	Sufficient, wrought by man’s Satanic foe;
And who that hath a heart would dare
		prolong
	Or add a sorrow to a stricken soul
	That seeks some healing balm to make
		it whole?
My bosom owns the brotherhood of man;
	From God and truth a renegade is he
	Who scorns a poor man in his poverty,
Or on a fellow lays his supercilious ban.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The general semi-annual conference
of the Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be
held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this city, on Thursday, Oct. 3d, 1907.
Meetings to commence at 10 a. m. and 2
p. m., as usual.
	On Monday, Oct. 7, there will be a
testimony meeting in Barratt hall, com-
mencing at 11 o’clock a. m. It is hoped
that there will be a representative from
every stake organization of the society,
and a large attendance of the members.
	The first presidency of the Church,
apostles, patriarch; council of seventy
bishops and other brethren, also the sis-
ters of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary
association, are invited to attend the con-
ference.
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
			General President.
	ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
	IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
				Counselors.

	A Conference of the Relief Society will
be held Thursday, Oct. 3, and Monday,
Oct. 7. The first meeting will convene at
10 a. m. on the first date named, and will
be held in the Assembly hall. President
Bathsheba W. Smith will preside. Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edward is musical direc-
tor, Miss Edna Coray, accompanist:
	Hymn, “Come, come ye Saints.”
	Prayer.
	Hymn, “Zion stands with hills sur-
rounded.”
	Greeting and welcome, President Bath-
sheba W. Smith.

[Column 2]
	Address, Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde.
	Baritone solo. “Grant Us Thy Peace,”
John Robinson.
	Brief reports, stake presidents.
	Hymn, “Lord dismiss us with Thy bles-
sing.”
	Benediction.

	AFTERNOON SESSION, 2 P. M.

	Hymn, Our God we raise to Thee,”
	Prayer.
	Hymn, “Come let us anew.”
	Remarks, Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Sarah
Jenne Cannon, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, nurse
work instructor.
	Soprano solo, “Heaven Hath Shed a
Tear.” 
	Reminiscences, Sarah M. Cleveland and
Elizabeth Ann Whitney, by Mrs.Emmeline
B. Wells.
	Solo, violin obligato by George Skel-
ton, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward. 
	Hymn, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Benediction.

	MONDAY 11 A. M. BARRATT HALL.

	Testimony meeting, President Bath-
sheba W. Smith presiding.
	Hymn, Guide Us Oh Thou Great Jeho-
vah.”
	Prayer.
	Hymn, “Hail to the Brightness of Zion’s
Glad Morning.”
	Testimonies.
	Contralto solo, “O Morning Land,”
Miss Edna Dwyer.
	Testimonies.
	Hymn, “The Time is Far Spent.”
	Benediction.

AFTERNOON, TWO O’CLOCK ASSEMBLY HALL.

	Third quinquennial of the N. W. R. S.
	Hymn, How Firm a Foundation.”
	Prayer.
	Hymn, “O Ye Mountains High.”
	Roll Call: Reading of minutes by the
secretary, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells.
	Duet, “Bright be Our Pathway Till We
Meet Again,” Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Ed-
ward and Miss Edna Dwyer.
	Remarks, President Bathsheba W.
Smith.
	Transaction of important business.
	Hymn, “We Thank Thee O God For a
Prophet.” 
	Benediction.

	The third Quinquennial of the National
Woman’s Relief society will convene in
the Salt Lake Assembly hall Monday,
Oct. 7, 1907, at 2 p.m. for the transaction
of important business.
	By order of the president.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,
			Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	The land of the Nile is beginning to
educate its women, and has just welcomed
its first girl graduate the B. A. degree
having been recently gained by a Moslem
girl student. Within the last few years
female education has made great strides
in Egypt, which now boasts of seven
government schools for girls, the teach-
ers of which have been trained in the
Women’s Normal School at Bonlak.


The dinner party given by Queen Wil-
helmina of Holland to the heads of the 
various delegations to the Peace Confer-
ence at The Hague was one of the memor-
able features of the meeting. The queen
presented to each delegate a beautiful
medal in commemoration of the second
conference in the interests of peace be-
tween all nations. When the dinner was
over Queen Wilhelmina held a reception
and while speaking to Mr. Choate expres-
sed a desire to visit this country.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall will spend the
coming winter in Cambridge, Mass.
	Ex-queen Liliuokalani of Hawaii is to
be married again, this time to Prince Ari
Pal of Tahiti.


MOTHERS’ WORK.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	1st. Life and its responsibilities, why
are we here? Unity, love and loyalty in
home.
	2nd. Have an aim in life, that of mak-
ing the home happy. Good cooking an
important factor. Order, cleanliness
environment.
	3rd. Hygiene and sanitation. Preven-
tion of contagious diseases. (1) Plenty of
sleep and fresh air. (2) Care of bed-
rooms, (a) boys, (b) girls. (3) Proper
care of cellar, yards, etc.
	4th. (1) Industry necessary to success.
(2) How to teach children habits of indus-
try. (3) Benefits derived. Idlers shall
not eat the bread of the laborer. D.
C. Sec. 42.
	5th. Obedience (a) Willing. (b) Blind.
Do not expect more from children than
we are willing to do ourselves. Children’s
rights to be respected.
	6th. Courtesy, children should be taught
to be courteous. (1) How? (2) Why?
Courtesy is uplifting as it leads each to
render respect to another.
	7th. Cheerfulness, how obtained. (1)
Show gratitude for blessings. (2) Count
your blessings, not your trials. Do not
always bring another’s faults before
them. Commend their good deeds so
their minds may build upon good rather
than evil.
	8th. Moral training, our girls and boys,
what they shall be taught, and who shall
teach it. Associates; show the evil effect
of going into society too young. Re-
tain the confidence of your children.
How? (1) Share their joys and sorrows.
(2) Never betray a child’s confidence
even to another member of the family.
	9th. Punishment. Is punishment nec
essary and what is its object? What
faults in the parents often result in pun-
ishment for the child? Give examples.
	10th. Reverence for sacred things. (1)
Reverence for Deity. (2) Reverence for
the house of worship. Irreverence comes
mostly from thoughtlessness and not
from desire.
	11th. Give plan for serving. (1) Break-
fast. (2) Dinner. (3) Supper. Give menu
for each.
	12th. Social duties. What claim has
society and the Church on the time of
young mothers? What rights have chil-
dren to entertain in the home? (1) Sab-
bath visiting, and (2) Sabbath night so-
cials.
	HANNAH A. CROSBY, Pres. R. S.
	SARAH D. SYRETT, Sec. R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-		SEPTEMBER, 1907


[Column 1]
PATRIOTISM AND SUFFRAGE.
	That the Latter-day Saints love their
country goes without saying. But it is
necessary to do something to prove one’s
love. To be sure the boys from Utah
and adjoining states and territories have
gone freely and in some instances gladly
and proudly to the battle if necessary;
like others some have been wounded and 
some have died, and the mothers have
been brave and heroic in giving their sons
to their country’s service even though
their hearts ached at the separation.
	And there are other ways and means
by which women as well as men can prove
their loyalty and without such great sac-
rifice as war demands. Women can help
maintain good government, can assist in
the cause of good citizenship, and it is a
duty as well as a privilege to prepare sons
and daughters to take part in good gov-
ernment. Especially is it essential when
women have equal suffrage as we have in
Utah, Wyoming, Colorado and Idaho,
that they should take advantage of their
opportunities and be active in promoting
good laws, measures and regulations.
This is a valuable use to put one’s ener-
gies to. There is need of woman’s help
and men are not slow to take advantage
of the ballot when they become candi-
dates for election to any office. Very
often women are not vigilant enough to
make themselves acquainted with what is
coming, and their opinion of candidates
and perchance their vote before they are
properly informed concerning the man
or the duty itself.
	By and by election day comes and a
carriage calls for the ladies, and they are
busy with home duties and hurry off with-
out being quite sure how they should vote
if time was given them to consider the
matter. This should not be the case
with any woman with good natural abili-
ty and common sense. Men may be in
precisely the same situation, but usually
men talk about these things, and do make
up their minds and unless over persuaded
generally vote as they mean to.
	Women do not give sufficient attention
to these important matters in many in-
stances. Another phase of the subject is
that women are afraid of the primaries.
And that is where men, and frequently
bad men, go to the primaries in force and
make up a slate and stay there and slide
it through, sending designing, intriguing,
bad men to the conventions, and conse-
quently they put their own kind up to be

[Column 2]
voted for if possible, or mix the names so
that they will get in some of their own
kind.
	The women of Colorado have been in
the past very careful to attend the pri-
maries, but many women are careless in
this respect.
	The writer is well aware that it is not
always a desirable place to go, but if the
women turned out in force they could
soon change the atmosphere of the pri-
maries.
	This year primaries have been held and
delegates for the convention nominated,
etc., etc., but there still remains the vot-
ing for the city officers to be elected in 
November.
	There is yet a chance to vote for the
best men, even if one has let the oppor-
tunity of attending the primaries go by,
and no woman who values her self respect
or the welfare of her family or the public
weal should vote for a disreputable man,
who will stand for the saloon element
and such like immoral places. Ex-
amine every name on the ticket and study
carefully the character of the men whose
names are before the public. This is
true, genuine patriotism. Be sure and
vote, for every woman’s vote counts just
the same as a man’s. It is the impera-
tive duty one owes to the state, the coun-
ty and the city.


[Column 1]
HOLLAND AND THE CAUSE OF PEACE.
	The year 1907 will be remarkable in
many respects; and one very important
and notable event has been a real “Par-
liament of Man.” The first Hague con-
ference in 1899 had representatives from
twenty-six nations only, and that was a
beginning, but this year, 1907, the con-
ference holding its sessions in the “Old
Hall of Knights,” at the Hague, we may
say represented the civilized world. The
forty-six nations whose delegates were
gathered in that august assembly, what-
ever may be the achievements, mark a
significant period in human history.
	Looking backward in history, Holland
has made momentous progress for the
peace and welfare of the world.
	William Penn, in his remarkable essay,
published in Europe in 1693, a few years
before his last visit to Pennsylvania, con-
tains some astonishing statements on the
subject of what is termed today interna-
tional union. One paragraph reads: “The
United States of Holland, established at
Utrecht in 1579, was the great precursor
of the United States of America, and the
prophecy of the United States of Europe.”
	In this age it is apparent that great
powers are working for what the poet
Tennyson, who is so often quoted, called
“the federation of the world.”
	The motto of the Dutch Union was
“By concord little things become great.”
	It is said that the first large and con-
spicuous example in modern history of
liberty and self-government was given by
Holland. Its Dutch Republic antedates
the English Commonwealth as it ante-
dates the planting of New England which
it so signally promoted.
	New England owes a debt to Holland
for its generous hospitality to its exiled
forefathers.
	It is worth while to note the principle
of toleration in the history of Holland;
in this respect one of the greatest writers

[Column 2]
has said Holland led mankind. Motley
says “While religious persecution raged
over all the world besides, this Republic
became the refuge for the oppressed of
all nations.” Not only did our pilgrim
fathers turn to Holland but the perse-
cuted Huguenots in France turned their
faces to Holland when they prayed. In
view of many facts in history relating to
the Dutch Republic and religious tolera-
tion, it is not astonishing, but indeed it
seems a natural consequence that the gos-
ple of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints should find so many fol-
lowers in the Dutch provinces, and such
freedom and liberty to teach and preach
its doctrines.
	One of the recent writers of modern
times says, “It was in accord with poetic
justice and the historic fitness of things
that the capital of Holland, the land of
Grotius and Erasmus should have been
chosen as the seat of the most august and
beneficent Congress of modern times;
for such surely history will pronounce the
two Peace Conferences at “The Hague.”
It was from the Government of the Neth-
erlands that the formal invitations went
to the nations. On the beautiful May-
day in 1899 when the first conference
opened, the flags of nearly all civilized
countries were thrown to the breeze from
the public buildings of the Dutch capital,
and in the afternoon the representatives
of twenty-five nations met for the open-
ing ceremonies in the Orange Hall of
the famous “House in the Wood.”
	M. de Beaufort, the Netherlands min-
ster of foreign affairs, called the meeting
to order. He said: “Her Majesty, my
august Sovereign, has put at the disposal
of this Conference the most historical
monument she possesses. This room,
decorated by the greatest artists of the
17th century, was erected by the widow
of Prince Frederick Henry to the mem-
ory of her husband.” He then explained
some of the allegorical figures of great
merit. One where Peace enters the
room to close the Temple of Janus.
He expressed the wish that it might be a
good omen for their labors, and after de-
liberations were concluded they could say
that Peace, which is shown to enter the
room, has gone out for the purpose of
scattering its blessings over all humanity.
It was there that on the 29th of July,
1899, the arbitration convention was
signed, which provided for settling differ-
ences by arbitrament of reason, instead
of arbitrament of arms.
	The corner-stone of the Temple of
Peace at the Hague has been laid in this
memorable summer of 1907, and of the
Parliament of Man; an event of peculiar
significance to Americans because of the
munificent gift of a million and a half of
dollars by Andrew Carnagie. This is the
material semblance of the good time
coming, and may the spiritual influences
also be a prophecy of the true spirit and
power that shall eventually come through
faith in God, and the everlasting gospel,
viz: “Peace on earth and good will among
men,” as foretold by the Divine Master,
the “Prince of Peace.”
	The Latter-day Saints are working for
peace, and for religious toleration in the
strict sense of the word, and they main-
tain the principles for which the Consti-
tution of our country stands, and one of
them is “An asylum for the oppressed of
all nations.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
Lecture I. Self Control.
	He who reigns within himself and
rules passions, desires and fears is more
than a king.” 2nd. Parents should be
masters of themselves. 3rd. Be what
you wish your child to be. Anger begets
anger, love begets love.

Lecture 2. Spiritual Development.
	1st. The progress we make here goes
with us into eternity. 2nd. Insincerity in
religion. At all times be what you seem.
3rd. When you attend meeting go with a
desire to gain a blessing rather than for
pastime.

Lecture 3. Ideal Mothers.
	1st. Do not abuse your bodies by over-
work, for the mental powers are weak-
ened proportionately. 2nd. To govern a
family aright, the mother should enjoy
physical and mental strength. 3rd. Try
to be happy under all circumstances.

Lecture 4. Child Development.
	1st. The forming of brain cells and
nerve centres. 2nd. How to strengthen
a good trait and weaken a bad one. 3rd.
Direct rather than check a child’s act
ivities.

Lecture 5. Respect for all God’s Creat-
		ures.
	1st. “Ridicule is the weapon of
the ignorant.” 2nd. A plain face
and plain clothing should not be the basis
of our estimate of people. 3rd. Should
learn to value the conduct and qualities
of the mind above all else.

Lecture 6. Judge not.
	1st. Be careful in talking of things that
do not concern you. Children easily ac-
quire the habit. 2nd. Be just and merci-
ful in your estimate of people. 3rd. Look
for the good in your fellows and you can
always find it.

Lecture 7. Rights of Children.
	1st. In dealing with children do not
forget you were once a child. 2nd. Over-
indulgence harmful. Self-denial good for
children. 3rd. Do not indulge self and
demand too much of your children. 4th.
Treat them in such a manner that they
will learn self-government.

Lecture 8. Unity of Parents.
	1st. Parents should not oppose each
other in correcting their children. 2nd. 
The wife should not oppose her husband
in business matters, rather suggest and
advise. 3rd. When one parent finds it
necassary to deny a child anything, the 
other parent has no right to indulge the
child in that particular.

Lecture 9. Mothers as Public Workers. 
	1st. Is it selfish for a mother to devote
all her time to her family. 2nd. Benefits
received from working in the Church
organizations. 3rd. Woman’s advance-
ment depends on her own efforts not her
husbands. 4th. The first requisite to a
successful life in any capacity is to love
the work.

Lecture 10. Hospitality.
	1st. A hospitable person is usually un-
selfish, finds pleasure in sharing what he
has with others. 2nd. Hospitality does
not consist in elaborate preparation
alone, but of the kindness that prompts
our treatment of friends 3rd. Give ex-

[Column 2]
amples of what you regard as genuine
hospitality.

Lecture 11. Unselfishness.
	1st. No other quality is so far-reach-
ing in the home as this. The duty of
every member of the family to learn to be
unselfish. 2nd. When one member
shirks his duty the burden falls more
heavily on some other of the family 3rd.
to be a good citizen one must learn to do
his part, and not withhold his services
while he complains of what others are
doing.

Lecture 12. Patience.
	1st. The struggles of life end only in
the grave. Sorrow is the common lot of
all. 2nd. Do not magnify your own
troubles by dwelling on them. 3rd, Bear
in patience all the ills that you cannot
correct, for without a cross there is no
crown.
	ANNIE LAKER, SUSANNA PUGMIRE, EM-
ILY RICHARDS, HERMOINE HART, Commit-
tee.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		EMERY STAKE.
	The Emery Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Orangeville, Wednes-
day, May 15, at 10 a.m. The conference
was well attended by Relief Society sis-
ters and a number of brethren. There was
present besides the Relief Society stake
officers, Sister Margaret A. Caine of the
General Board of Relief Society.
	During the morning session the speak-
ers were President Mary A. Sorensen,
Counselors Caroline A. Guymon and Mary
J. King, Elder Alma Jewkes and Sister
Caine.
	Reports of the Orangeville, Huntington
and Clawson wards were given. An in-
strumenal selection was nicely rendered
by Sister Maggie Cox, and a talk on the
“Life and Works of Emily Hill Wood-
mansee” was ably given by Lucinda
Curtis.
	In the afternoon, reports were given
by the presidents of the Castledale, Wel-
lington, Ferron, Molen, Desert Lake and
Castlegate wards. The speakers were
Sister Annie M. Larsen, Elder U. E. Cur-
tis, Patriarch Franklin D. Young and
Sister Caine. A duet was rendered by
Nettie Crawford and Fannie Cox. May
Poulson sang, “The Picture of My Moth-
er.” Sister  Nathalie Andersen gave a
talk on nursing.
	A good spirit prevailed throughout the
conference, and good singing was fur-
nished by the Orangeville Relief Society,
assisted by the brethren. The day was
perfect and everything seemed to com-
bine to make our conference a success.
	An officers’ meeting was held between
the forenoon and afternoon sessions, at
which Sister Caine gave special instruc-
tions to the officers and teachers.
	ANNIE MARIA ALLEN, Secretary.
		SUMMIT STAKE.
	The Summit Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Coalville, June 16,
1907. Sister Susan Grant of the General
Board and Moses W. Taylor, Thomas L.
Allen and George W. Young of the Stake
Presidency, Prest. Celeste Y. Pack and
Counselor Sarah C. Taylor of the Stake
Relief Society Board were present.

[Column 2]
	After reading the annual report by
Stake Secretary Annie M. Wilson, show-
ing the society to be in a very prosper-
ous condition, Sister Annie Philipps and
Sadie Rasband of Park City sang a beau-
tiful selection.
	Sister Grant then addressed the con-
ference. She was very much gratified
with the splendid report of the presidents
throughout the stake, and spoke at some
length in regard to storing grain and Re-
lief Society work in its various lines.
	Sister Priscilla Evans of Coalville sang,
“Change Not the Old for the New.”
Sister Mary H. Neeley read a paper on
the “Mother’s work.” Prest. Moses W.
Taylor appreciated the work done by the
Relief society of the Summit stake, par-
ticularly in caring for the sick and poor.
Sister Mattie Salmon Baker of Alberta,
Canada, sang a solo.
	Prest. Pack was pleased with the unity
existing throughout the wards in the
stake and the general prosperous con-
dition of the same. Fourteen of the sev-
enteen wards were represented at the
conference.
	An officers’ meeting was held in the
Relief Society hall on Saturday and Sun-
day morning, the hall being crowded to
its utmost, many having to stand.
		MARY H. NEELEY, Sec.

		WASATCH STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Wasatch
Stake was held on Sunday, June 16, 1907,
in the Stake tabernacle, Heber, President
Annie R. Duke presiding. After opening
exercises, a welcome address was given
by Sister Lovisa Alexander, she was
pleased to see so many present and was
thankful for the beautiful sunshine and
for all the many blessings received. She
knew this was a glorious work.
	The reports that were given show that
the 9 wards in the Stake are in a flourish-
ing condition, the sisters are trying to do
all the good they can. The attendance
in some of the wards is not what it should
be.
	Sisters Elizabeth Wilcox and Dr. Ellis
R, Shipp of the general board were pres-
ent at the morning session, but returned
home in the afternoon. Sister Wilcox
was pleased to hear the reports that were
given. She spoke about mothers attend-
ing to their meetings but not to neglect
her children to do so. The greatest ob-
ject of a mother’s life is to take care of
her children.
	The object of the Relief Society when
first organized was to relieve the poor
and help the sick, and it is also for the
saving of souls. The sisters should
become acquainted with the principles of
the Gospel. If we do not do some good
each day we are not doing our duty. We
should ask in humility every day for the
Lord to help us. She knew the mother’s
work was a grand work and was growing
rapidly. She urged the necessity of train-
ing nurses, that the mothers and little
ones might have the proper care. She
commented on the work of teachers, felt
that they were the backbone of the soci-
ety. “Mothers should know where their
children are at night. Provide the prop-
er kind of amusement and make home
pleasant and attractive that they will love
to stay at home.”
	Paper, “True object of the Relief So-
ciety Work, by Amelia Cluff. Song by
Brother Roberts and company.


[Column 1]
	Sister Shipp thought if we could put
into practice the good things we have
heard we have sufficient said. She said
she brings the greetings of Sister Smith,
who is interested in you. Made mention
of the opportunities the Latter-day Saints
have and what an honored people they
are. “Can there be a truer mission than
a wife and a mother? She needs knowl-
edge all that she can obtain to make her
a better woman. She can teach her in-
fant obedience. Control your home by
love, it will do more good than anything
else. Mothers must be cheerful and agree-
able under all circumstances. Teach
children to be prayerful and honor the
Priesthood.”
	President Joseph R. Murdock endorsed
all that had been said. He would like to
see every good woman in this Stake of
Zion enrolled in the Relief Society, that
was the place for them. He knew the
sisters were doing a good work. Urged
the sisters to subscribe for the Exponent.
	In the afternoon session General Presi-
dent B. W. Smith’s address was read by
Sister Margaret Murdock. Recitation,
Millie Montgomery.
	Remarks by Sister Ann Murdock one
of the first members of the Relief Society
in this Stake of Zion.
	Elders E. D. Clyde, and James C. Jen-
sen of the Presidency spoke a short time.
William Young, a returned missionary
from New Zealand spoke a few minutes
and also sang a song.
				Stake Secretary.

		WOODRUFF.
	Minutes of Woodruff Stake Relief
Society Conference held at Lyman, June
15, 1907, Stake President Sarah Tyson
presiding. From the general board Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth and visiting sister,
Lydia Morris, of Salt Lake City, were
present. After the usual opening exer-
cises Stake President Tyson made a few
opening remarks, she was pleased to see
so many young sisters present, and ex-
horted all to attend to their Relief Society
duties.
	Counselor Ellen Anderson of Lyman
reported their society in good condition.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke of the
noble pioneers, read from the Exponent
President Bathsheba W. Smith’s greeting
to the sisters. Also spoke of the San
Francisco disaster, and of what the Re-
lief Society had done for them. Said we
were growing in intelligence, and we
should endeavor to cultivate our talents.
Spoke of the poor and of the annual do-
nation and by doing those things we were
fulfilling our duties. Referred to the
lectures of the mothers’ work, wished the
young sisters especially to take interest in
them.
	Sister Ida Hamblin sang “Guide me to
Thee.”
	Sister Morris expressed her willingness
to do what she could for the Relief Soci-
ety, thought there was so much we could
do in that direction.
	Brother George Eyer spoke of the lab-
ors of the sisters in the Relief Society
and what a grand organization it was,
closed by invoking the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Counselor H. Telford thought the
mothers’ work was a great help to us,
spoke of the necessity of storing grain,
said it was a commandment from the ser-

[Column 2]
vants of the Lord. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m. with singing and benedic-
tion.
	Afternoon session of the Relief Society,
presided over by Stake President
Tyson. After opening exercises, Moun-
tain View Relief Society was reported by
President Graham: Randolph by Presi-
dent Celia Spencer in good condition and
fully organized; Cumberland was re-
ported doing fairly well.
	Solo sung by Ada Rollins.
	The general and Stake officers were
presented and unanimously sustained.
	Sister Julia Farnsworth spoke of the
woman’s building and of the storing of
grain, said we should not care what the
people of the world say, so that we are
keeping the commandments of God.
Wondered if the mothers realized the
positions they occupy in raising children,
there is nothing that should interest us
more than the care of our children, they
are our jewels which God gives to us. Ad-
vised us to visit the sick and not be
boastful. We should endeavor to grow
better and wiser every day so that we
may be prepared to go back to our Father
in heaven and receive our reward.
	A musical selection by the Osborn
sisters was rendered. Sister Morris, mis-
sionary, thought it was a great thing to be
called to this work. God is merciful and
overlooks a great many of our faults. He
knows our desires and will bless us ac-
cordingly. Said we should not be dis-
contented with our homes, for the Lord
had work for us to do here He will rule
the elements for our sake.
	Bishop Graham of Mountain View made
a few remarks. Bishop S. Brough thought
that the Spirit of the Lord had been with
us, felt well and gave us good instruction.
	Solo sung by Minna Marshall.
	President Tyson felt to rejoice for we
have had a good time, we should have
the Spirit of humility, and faith, and
“Count our many blessings,” should visit
those in distress and honor the aged,
cease finding fault with each other, culti-
vate the spirit of prayer.
	Closed by singing and benediction.
		KATIE H. EPPICH, Stake Sec.

				NEBO.
	The quarterly conference of the Nebo
Stake Relief Society was held at Payson,
July 19, 1907, President Eliza J. Dixon
presiding. After the opening exercises,
Sister Dixon welcomed the people to our
conference and was proud to have sisters
from the general board with us; gave a
brief report of the Relief Society work.
Nebo Stake owns 8 halls and 9 granaries
with 1095 bushels of wheat. Our object
is to have our children grow up to be
good Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Ann Nebeker recited Peti Pat
and Tipe Toe. Lesson on parents class
work given by Sister Edna Brockbank,
subject, habit; she also read a poem,
“Hanging Pictures on Memory’s Walls.”
	Song, Sisters Quigley and Daniels,
“The Old Homestead.”
	Sister Hattie B. Harker, missionary
from the general board spoke on the
cares of mothers, both in the family and
outside, in helping others by older sisters
giving their experience to the younger
sisters in raising their families. “We are
all working for the one great cause. We
benefit ourselves as we benefit others, it
is better to give than to receive, and

[Column 3]
blessed is he that giveth, my father
taught that if I administered to the wants
of the aged, that the Lord would take
care of me in old age.” She also spoke
of inspiring others to do their duty.
	Morning session closed with singing and
prayer.
	Afternoon session. President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding. After singing and
prayer Sister Annie Wells Cannon of the
General Board spoke for some time.
Prayed for the Spirit of the Lord to be
with us all; said President Bathsheba W.
Smith sends her love to the sisters of the
Relief Society, as she is not able to visit
them personally on account of her many
duties and Temple work, but her love and
interest are still with the sisters who are
engaged in this work. “I feel this after-
noon that the Spirit of the Lord is with
us, those that are working for the Master
are making for themselves a heaven.”
Sister Cannon talked of the mother’s
work, we are proud of our Relief Society,
and above all, sisters, be proud of moth-
erhood, the happiest time in our lives is
when our children are small, then is
when we can teach them. Don’t let
them say anything against the Priest-
hood. Tell them good stories. She also
spoke of the moral condition of the young,
advised the Relief Society to take up a
work with the young, uplift and better their
moral and spiritual condition. Advised
mothers not to send their daughters to
Salt Lake to work on account of the evil
influences they are liable to come in con-
tact with, said that there was a commit-
tee of sisters to get good homes for those
who do come to Salt Lake to work; spoke
of our girls going to other towns and set-
tlements to parties and riding home late,
felt it was imprudent. Relief Society
teachers should be the very best women
in the wards, and pray for the Lord to
guide them in their labors, and live just
as near like the Master as possible.
We need the young women and the
young women need the Relief Society.
Sister Cannon spoke of storing grain
against a day of famine, felt that when we
lend our wheat we should have good se-
curity. Advised us to read the Testament
every day, especially when we are dis-
couraged. She mentioned especially the
Savior and His prayer while He was in
the garden of Gethsemane, and of His
forgiving spirit.
	Sister H. B. Harker also spoke on the
Garden of Gethsemane, and felt, we
should understand the Gospel ourselves
and then we can teach it to our children.
We should teach our sons as well as our
daughters morality, and if we don’t have
much of this world’s goods have their
hearts pure. Spoke of the nurses class
as a noble work for our sisters in Zion
and that the nurses’s class would com-
mence in September. Dr. Shipp to con-
duct the work. Spoke of the Woman’s
Exponent and advised the sisters to sub-
scribe for that valuable paper.
	Brother Swenson, a member of the
High Priests quorum, spoke a short time.
Said try all we could to have all our sis-
ters enrolled in the Relief Society. Our
whole souls should be for the welfare of
ourselves and our brothers and sisters.
	Song by Sister Ivy Done, entitled “I
need Thee every hour.”
	Brother Beddoes another member of
the High Priests quorum addressed the
conference, said that the Lord would fit


and qualify us to fulfill out duty and gave 
some very good instructions. 
	General and Stake officers of the Relief 
Society presented and sustained unani-
mously. 
	President Lemmons said that the Gos-
pel should be taught at home, said that 
there was no organization in the Church 
that was more help to the Bishopric than 
the Relief Society. 
	Sister Dixon announced that our next 
conference will be held in the Tintic dis-
trict Sep. 21, thanked the sisters and all 
who had taken part in helping to make 
the conference a success. Closed by 
singing doxology, and benediction.
				Eliza A. Hawkins,
						Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM. 
MRS AMY LORETTE (CHASEI BIGLER was born 
in Lincoln, Addison County, Vermont, Novem-
ber 7th, 1822, her father died when she was seven 
years old; she was eighteen years of age when 
she first heard the gospel of Jesus Christ; her 
Uncle Ezra Chase came to Vermont aud converted 
her to the faith in the fall of 1840; three years 
later she, with her mother and two brothers, went 
to Nauvoo, on June 18th, 1844, she was married 
to Jacob B. Bigler, just nine days before the 
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum 
were martyred. She came to Utah in the fall of 
1852 and made her home at Nephi, Juab County, 
Utah, where she died June 8th 1907, fifteen weeks 
to the day after the death of her husband, Patri-
arch Jacob G. Bigler. Sae was the mother of 10
children, 8 of whom are still living. She was 
beloved by all who knew her, and lived and 
died a faithful Latter-day Saint. She was one of 
the noble workers in the Relief Society cause and 
held responsibe positions in the Society. She was 
chosen as secretary when it was first organized in 
Nephi in the year of 1868 and held that office in 
honor until 1879 when the Stake Relief Society 
was organized, then she was chosen as stake sec-
retary, and in the year of 1883 she was chosen 
counselor to the Stake President: she held that 
office until old age and poor health came and she
resigned.
	She was at Relief Society just a week before 
she was taken sick and bore a strong testimony to 
the truthfulness of the gospel of Christ. 
	She was a subscriber to the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT from the time it was first published. 
She has gone to receive the reward of a faithful 
and well-spent life.				COMMUNICATED.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT FOR SISTER ELIZABETH
				GASSMAN.
			Kind words cost nothing. 
		In the midst of life there is death. 
	Whereas, our Father in heaven has, in His in-
finite mercy removed from among us our worthy 
and dearly loved sister, Elizabeth Gassman; and 
whereas, the long and intimate relation with her 
in the faithful discharge of her duties in this So-
ciety as secretary and president, makes it fitting 
that we record our appreciation. 
	Wherefore resolved, that the wisdom and ability 
which she exercised in our midst by service and 
counsel will be held in grateful remembrance. 
	Resolved, that the removal of such a life from 
among our number leaves a vacancy and a shad-
ow that will be deeply realized by all the mem-
bers of this society, and a serious loss to the com-
munity because of the exemplary life she lived. 
	Resolved, that we deeply symyathize with the 
bereaved family and pray our heavenly Father 
to sustain and comfort them in the hour of trial; 
we express our hope that even so great a loss to 
us all may be overruled for good by Him who 
doeth all things well. 
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be 
recorded in the record book of the Relief Society, 
a copy publishd in the Woman's Exponent, and a 
copy handed to the bereaved family.
							Millie Hooper,
	Elizabeth Robbins, whose play, ‘‘Votes
for Women,” is one of the sensations of 
London, is a native of Louisville, Ky.


OBITUARY. 
	In memory of Sister Mary A. Packer, who de-
parted this life February 19, 1907. 
	Sister Packer was a willing and faithful worker, 
a ministering angel to the sick, and a true Latter-
day Saint. She has filled many positions of honor 
and trust in the Layton ward. She was president 
of the Yonng Ladies’ Association for a number 
of years, also a teacher in the Sunday School. At 
the time of her death she was a counselor in the 
Relief Society. 
	We feel that we have lost a wise counselor and 
a true friend; but our loss is her eternal gain. 
We hope to meet her again where pain and sorrow 
are unknown.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolved, by the sisters of the Layton Ward 
Relief Society, that we mourn the loss and appre-
ciate the purity of her life. 
	That we extend to the bereaved family our sin-
cere sympathy, and pray God that His comforting 
influence may be with them; for there is joy and 
comfort in the knowledge that Sister Packer is en-
titled to all the blessings promised to the faithful. 
Resolved, that a copy of these resoltuions be 
presented to the family, and a copy placed on tha 
records of the Relief Society of Layton, Arizona, 
and a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent.
(Signed)			Alice K. Beebe, President.
				Mamie Freeson, Secretary.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS. 
		BEAR LAKE. 
	Minutes of the Bear Lake Relief Socie-
ty Conference which was held in the Tab-
ernacle at Paris, August 18th, 1907, with a 
very good attendance.
	Officers’ meeting, 10 a.m. 
	President Julia P. Lindsay presiding. 
She said there were a great many who 
neglected their duties, but she knew our 
Father in heaven would wake them up to 
their line of duty. Spoke of how well 
she felt about our paper, the valuable 
EXPONENT for women, and we should 
support it better than we do. We have 
Sister Grant with us, also Sister Shipp. 
Felt well in having some of the Stake 
Presidency present to back them. It has 
been said by way of encouragement that 
the Relief Society is the most interesting, 
thrifty and independent auxiliary organi-
zation in the Church. She believed the 
Latter-day Saints to be the best people 
on earth, although the people of the 
world are so beautifully dressed and re-
fined in manners, she would not for any-
thing in the world, change with them; 
we have the gospel and the spirit of revel-
ation. How we are blessed, we should al-
ways give with a charitable feeling, then 
the ones that receive would rejoice and 
be happy indeed; but remember we are 
all getting old, should not be harsh. The
Teacher’s duties are very great; always 
carry a smile. The money you collect 
is nothing in comparison to the comfort 
you may be; you can all do some good, 
when in the line of duty. May the Lord 
bless us all. 
	Sister Susan Grant was pleased to hear 
the instructions to teachers, and would 
have been very much pleased to have 
seen more present; very much pleased 
to konw you  have grain  and places to 
keep it. It is very gratifying to have 
house and lot of your own in which to 
meet. Should keep good records; and 
those that have not granaries should hur-
ry and get them and store wheat; should
also be punctual at your meetings. The 
Prophet Joseph Smith said that every 
virtuous woman should have her name 
enrolled, because from the books we shall 
be judged. Was pleased to hear the EX-

[Column 2]
PONENT spoken of, and wish every Sister 
would take that paper and sustain it bet-
ter, Sister Emmeline B. Wells is such 
a busy woman and still attends to our 
valuable paper, and she does so very much 
other work that we very often wonder 
how she can accomplish so much. May 
we be faithful in our mission and strive 
to do what is right. 
	President W. Rich was pleased to meet 
with us in officers’ meeting. Thought 
we got more substance out of these meet-
ing. We should sustain our paper. It 
softens the heart of a Sister when she is 
helping any one. Have been interested in 
meeting with you. Let us be strong and 
steadfast in our efforts to do good. 

	Eight annual conferences of the Relief 
Society of this stake have been held in 
the Tabernacle of Paris. 
		Sunday, August 18th, 1907, 2 p.m. 
	After the choir and congregation sang, 
prayer was offered and singing. 
	The Sacrament was administered, and 
while it was being dispensed, the sweetest 
music was rendered by the choir. 
	President Lindsay said, There is a spirit 
of love and union among our sisters of 
this stake, but some are careless in at-
tending our meetings. Prayed God to 
bless the sisters who are with us that 
they may say something that will help us 
in our work. 
	Sister Grant said she did not feel timid 
in speaking in the presence of our breth-
ren as she once did; she came to instruct 
the sisters; knew that President Lindsay 
had the love and respect of the sisters; 
and when the time comes for her release of 
life, will feel a satisfaction in knowing 
she has done her duty. It is our duty to 
help the Priesthood whenever they need 
help, in addition to the labor of caring 
for the sick and the poor. The speaker 
dwelt at some length on the importance 
of implanting faith in the hearts of our 
children; should teach them while very 
young to pray to our heavenly Father; 
we should teach by example. She en-
joyed the love and confidence of her 
brothers and sisters more than anything 
else. Did not come with any new doc-
trine, but to remind us of our duties, for 
we are all forgetful. She was one of the 
few who knew the Prophet Joseph and 
Patriarch Hyrum; was twelve years old 
when they were martyred. The Prophet 
was a superior-looking man; there are 
none of his pictures that do him justice. 
We are always blessed in blessing others. 
Prayed God to bless all who are engaged 
in this noble work. 
	Sister Shipp said: With the great res-
ponsibility resting upon me, I feel timid; 
we are here to fill a sacred mission; we 
should make our homes all they should 
be and beautify them; woman’s mission
is to make others happy; husband and 
wife should work together and help each 
other in their labors with the children. 
In her early life, had a happy home; nev-
er heard her father and mother speak a 
cross word to each other. Spoke of the 
sacredness of the marriage covenant and 
of the seriousness of divorces. Spoke of 
the faithfulness of President Lindsay 
who is now eighty-four years of age, and 
the joy she feels in laboring; she does 
not wait to be waited upon for work is 
what brings joy to the soul. Clean homes 
and beds, good nourishing food and a smile


and a kiss for the children are what is 
needed. We have more old people 
among us than they have among other 
peoples; we can attribute this to the 
keeping of the Word of Wisdom; related
instances showing that those who refrain 
from stimulants are the strongest and the 
brightest men and women. My heart 
is full of love for the brethren and sisters. 
President Lindsay reminded the sisters 
of erecting granaries for storing wheat, 
also suggested that each association fur-
nish the means for their president to at-
attend conference. 
President Richards spoke of the impor-
tance of the teachers, that their great 
object is not only to gather means but 
to teach  and expound the principles of 
the gospel to cheer the Saints. Prayed 
God to help all who are engaged in this 
great organization as many are not yet 
converted to this great work and do not 
know what is being done by the sisters. 
Choir sang—“Sweet is the work, my 
God, my King."
	Closing prayer by Counselor Mary 
Bagely. 
LOUISE TUELLER, 
Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	NOTES AND NEWS.

	The Indiana Lsgislature has passed a
bill providing for the State care of the
grave of Nancy Hanks Lincoln, the
mother of Abraham Lincoln.
	The Empress Eugenie at 81 still takes
a long walk every morning and still
entertains her friends at the end of every
week.
	Miss Helen McKinley, niece of the late
president, will unveil the statue at the
dedication of the McKinley Mausoleum,
September 30. But there will not be a
woman among the speakers, although Mc-
Kinley was a suffragist.
	Nowadays even women of title engage
in trade. The Duchess of Sutherland,
when she visited Russia, packed her
trunk with samples of highland tweed,
and used them to drum up a market for
the goods, from which she has been called
the ‘‘drummer duchess.”
	A new woman’s paper has been started
in St. Petersburg, called “The Woman’s
Union.” It is published by the Russian
Union of Defender’s of Woman’s Rights,
and is edited by its secretary, Mrs. Tche-
koff. The new periodical is welcomed by
the progressive papers of Russia.
	The call is issued for the Annual Exec-
utive Session of the National Council of
Women of the United States, which will
be held in the Woman’s Building, James-
town Exposition, October 1-5. The local
arrangements are under charge of Mrs.
Kate Waller Barrett. vice-president-at-
large, who is spending the season at the
Exposition in charge of the Headquarters
at the National Council.

[Column 2]
Mrs. Laura E. Cook, 55 years old, has
built herself a house with her own hands.
Sixteen months ago she bought a lot for
$1,000 on a bleak hillside in Elmdale,
Cal. She has transformed it into a scene
of beauty with a terraced garden, flowers
and shrubbery. She planned the house,
laid the foundations. built the retaining
wall, sawed and fitted the lumber, erect-
ed the chimney and put on the shingles.
The place shows excellent workmanship,
and she has been offered $5,000 for it, but
will not sell.
	Ann Shreeve, who lately died in Eng-
land at the age of 89, had been 51 years
to a day in the service of the Countess of
Swhrewsbury. The obituary announce-
ment said she had been for 51 years the
“friend and faithful servant of the Dow-
ager Countess of Shrewsbury.” Lady
Shrewsbury seems to have had no trouble
in keeping her servants. A maid who
entered her service when the countess
was a girl of fourteen stayed with her till
the infirmities of old age forced her to
rest. Her cook also has spent a lifetime
in her service.
	Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, the earliest
woman physician, now eighty-six and a
half years old, was taking a pleasure trip
through Scotland this summer with her
adopted daughter, when she met with a
bad fall down a flight of stairs and was
found insensible at the bottom. Such an
accident was likely to leave serious con-
sequences for a woman of her age, and
her friends at once sent for a trained
nurse. But Dr. Blackwell, who had
luckily broken no bones, scouted the aid
of the nurse, emphatically refused to be
“made an invalid of,” and on the second
day came down to meals as usual. She
has since returned to her home at Hast-
ings, England.
	Mrs. Sheldon Leavitt, the wife of one
of Chicago’s most noted physicians, has
started a circulating art gallery for the
hospital patients of that city. She has
made a large collection of paintings, and
these, through a central agency, will be
moved from hospital to hospital for the
enjoyment of the needy sick. “I have
grown tired of the aimless round of soci-
ety,” Mrs. Leavitt is reported as saying,
“and have withdrawn, to devote the rest
of my life to work that will improve the
lot of the sick poor. I thought a good
start might be made through having them
see beautiful pictures. Pictures do so
much for the sick room and for a despon-
dent invalid.” 
	Mrs. Thomas F. Ryan, wife of the
noted financier, has received the title of
Countess from Pope Pius X, in recogni-
tion of her numerous benefactions. With
unlimited means at her command, she is
said to give away a million dollars a year
in a practical and systematic manner,
maintaining an office and a corps of
clerks, who attend to the details of dis-
tribution. She has built one cathedral,
five churches, numerous chapels, and two

[Column 3]
hospitals, endowed rooms in several hos-
pitals, erected monuments to mark all of
Virginia’s battlefields, founded thirteen
scholarships for boys and scholarships for
poor girls at sixteen colleges, and has given
generously to many other religious, educa-
tional and charitable institutions. Ex.


AN OBJECT LESSON.
	Philadelphia, when the schools opened
this fall turned away 5000 children entire-
ly, for lack of seats, and put 15,000 on
half time—an injustice both to the chil-
dren, who get only half the schooling
they ought, and to the teachers who have
the double fatigue of teaching everything
twice over, to two relays of pupils.
	The schools fall short by 20,000 seats
of being able to accommodate the chil-
dren who actually apply. If the compul-
sory education law were carried out the
shortage would be much greater.
	And what sort of accommodation do
those children who succeed in getting into
the schools. In his report last June to
the Board of Education the new Superin-
dent of Schools, Dr. Martin G. Brum-
baugh said:
	"It is a fact that the children are sitting
on broken benches, that they are sitting
on boards in the aisles between benches,
that they are sitting on boxes, that they
are sitting on window sills and that in
some cases they are actually sitting on
the floor, in the schools in Philadelphia.
All of these conditions I have personally
and with great distress to myself, been
obliged in the last four months to witness.
We are prepared at any time to lay before
you a list of schools which have furni-
ture which any fair-minded individual
would pronounce unfit for the use of the
children. Speaking well within the facts
it is safe to say that there are at least
$25,000 such desks in the schools of Phila-
delphia."
	Yet Philadelphia has money enough to
spend on luxuries. Only two months ago
the city fathers voted $50,000 of pub-
lic funds to entertain the Benevolent
and Protective Order of Elks and then
gave $10,600 more to make merry with
the Patriotic Order of the Sons of
America. A large part of the $60,000
came out of women's tax money. If the
city mothers had had any voice in the
spending of it, they would have provided
seats and desks for the schools before
launching out into lavish and needless
entertaining.
	Philadelphia is one of the richest cities
in the world. She squanders millions
on graft, and scrimps on the children's
education. Most of our big cities do
the same.
	Are women's wishes "represented"
in the way their tax money is spent?
		A. S. B. in Woman's Journal.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money.				 —TRY US

[Column 2]
	RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	The several stakes of Zion are hereby
notified that the Relief Society Nurse
Class for this year will begin in Septem-
ber at the first session of the L. D. S.
University.
	The important work is under the aus-
pices of the general Board of the Relief
Society, who desire the earnest co-opera-
tion of all ward and stake presidents.
			ELLIS R. SHIPP. M. D.,
						Instructor.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home; the State and the Nation.
Vol. 36					SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, OCTOBER, 1907.						No. 4


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Interesting Letter................Susie M. Morgan		25
Relief Society Lecture to Mothers.................
......................................Mary Berlin Johnson	25
Relief Society Reports:—Box Elder Stake....	27
	Teton Stake.............................................	29
	Uintah Stake...........................................	29
	Bannock Stake........................................	30
	Alpine Stake...........................................	30
A Tribute.........................................................	31
Editorial:—An Artistic Booklet......................	28
	October General Conference...................	28
	General Relief Society Conference.........	28
	Relief Society Work Abroad...................	29
	History of the U. W. Pressclub................
	.........................................Lydia D. Alder	31
Poetry:—Things to Forget.................Selected	25
	A Dream of Burnd Things.......................
	.................................William B Chi-holm	27
	When You Come Home...Clarence Urmy	27


THINGS TO FORGET.
If you see a tall fellow ahead of a crowd,
A leader of men marching fearless and proud,
And you know of a tale whose mere telling a oud
Would cause his proud head to in anguish be
		bowed,
	It’s a pretty good plan to forget it.
If you know of a skeleton hidden away
In a closet, and guarded, and kept from the day,
In the dark, and whose showing, whose sudden
		display,
Would cause grief and sorrow and lifelong dis-
		may,
	It’s a pretty good plan to forget it.
If you know of a thing that will darken the joy
Of a man or a woman a girl or a boy,
That will wipe out a smile r the least way annoy
A fellow, or cause any gladness to cloy.
	It’s a pretty good plan to forget it.
								Selected.


[Column 1]
	INTERESTING LETTER.
	HAZELDENE FARM, AMALINDA,
		near East London, Cape Colony,
				September 8th, 1907.
	To Mrs Bathsheba Smith.
DEAR SISTER IN THE LORD:
	A letter from this place may be a sur-
prise to you, but I pray that you will re-
ceive it kindly.
	I long to see you, and as that privilege
is denied, the next best thing to a face to
face interview is a talk on paper. I am
a “Latter-day Saint,” was baptized on
April 3rd of this year and I cannot ex-
press my great joy and peace in our glori-
ous grand gospel, although I have been a
Christian all my life, never before have I
been so happy and satisfied. I have al-
ways worked for all that is good and en-
nobling and uplifting, tried to be like
Jesus, our dear elder Brother and Savior.
I am eldest living of mother’s family of
twelve. I was born on 9th January 1869
in Salt Lake City, came to C. C. when a

[Column 2]
year old with my parents, who were Mor-
mons. Away from the Church has been
of harm to this family. We have not had
the blessings and privileges of our moth-
er’s religion. My brother of 23 was bapt-
ized with me and I think others will be in
time. I have only one child, a boy of 10.
He was baptized and I hope to bring him
up a true and faithful Latter-day Saint.
	I am intensely interested in all accounts
of our Church meetings, conferences, etc.
and read with joy every item I can find in
Deseret News. A few copies of WOMAN’S
EXHONENT have come to me from time
to time. I am always interested in the
Relief Society reports and especially in
your words. I was so glad to see your
picture in May number and I feel to
want to send you my heartfelt wishes
and I am at last obeying the promptings
of my heart. I would love to meet a
woman who had known our beloved
Prophet Joseph. I hope you will send me
a few lines of your testimony as to His
divine mission from one who has known
him will be valued by me. The elders
who have labored in this city have been
so true and earnest and I count it a bles
sing to have met such pure, good, young
men. We missed Elder Cannon, he is
indeed a sweet Christian, so few respond
to the message. We number only six
in E. L. I long to be in Utah where I
could enjoy the services and engage in
work of all kinds and see the lovely
temple. In becoming a “Mormon” I know
I shall have some thing to bear. I already
feel a coolness of some friends toward me
and my sensitive nature shrinks from be-
ing hurt and pained, but the Father will
make me brave to defend our faith that is
so misunderstood. My mother and I long
to go to Utah and it is our daily hope and
prayer that the way may be opened for
us to go. My dear good father died eight
years ago, had he lived, he had resolved
to take us all back to Utah. Oh, how we
miss him, and mother has never been the
same since that terrible grief. Letters
from our sisters in Utah do cheer us. I
know you are a busy woman and your age
as well, but I hope and pray for a few
words from you as soon as you can. I
shall esteem it a favor. Hoping this finds
you in good health. Mother joins me in
love. Think of me as your sister in the
Gospel.			Susie M. Morgan.
	MRS. BATHSHEBA SMITH.
Many a happy year be thine
	If our Father will!
He has traced the fair design
	He will fill it, line by line,
Working patiently, until
	Thy completed life shall shine
Glorious in the life divine.
“Upward, still upward,” thy pathway be
	Into the sunshine grand and free;
Leaving the mists and clouds below.
	Gaining the pure and stainless snow
“Upward, still upward” Thy faithful Guide
	Always clo e at His Pilgrims s de
Leading thee on from height to height,
	Nearer and nearer the stars of light.
						SUSIE M. MORGAN.

[Column 3]
	R.S. LECTURE TO MOTHERS.
	In the beginning of the world God
placed man on earth to have dominion
over all the earth. He also gave him
woman, equally intelligent. It seems or-
dained that man should be at the head.
He is physically stronger, and to the wife
he is head, husband and protector on
earth. As a father he stands at the head
of the family.
	Close by him stands the wife, who is
to be a helpmeet, a comfort, and to be
mother; for no greater mission can be
given her than to be a mother.
	She is equally responsible for the prop-
er government of the children. It is her
right to walk shoulder to shoulder with
her companion in seeking knowledge and
intelligence.
	Truly if the husband is a man in every
sense of the word, the wife can be a
woman in every sense of the word also.
President Joseph F. Smith says: “A man
that is a true Latter-day Saint will make
a good husband; the same with the wo-
man—she will make a good wife.” He
has also said: “A man that will not live
up to his duties in the priesthood need
not demand obedience from his wife.”
	It is hard for the mother when the
father is indifferent to teach, guide and
direct her children in the path she desires
them to go. The same, or perhaps more
so, when the mother is indifferent. When
there is division at the head of the fam-
ily, it will surely prove instability of
character in the children.
	Children should be taught to respect
the right which the parents have to con-
trol over them, and respect their parents’
authority, by asking permission to go, or
to do anything in which they need coun-
sel and advice. Children who will do
this are the ones who will respect those
in authority away from home—the school
teacher, the Primary and Sunday-school
teacher, those in authority in the differ-
ent organizations of the ward—the bish-
op and the authority of God.
	Every member of the family should
have their rights respected; even the
youngest member should be taught not
to take brother’s or sister’s book. Broth-
ers or sisters should not take, borrow or
make use of anything which belongs to
another brother or sister without their
consent. For doing such things in their
absence or without consent will surely
bring disappointment, ill-feeling and an-
gry words. When the rights of each one
in the family are strictly regarded, the
children can be trusted everywhere they
go, “and the principles of honor and jus-
tice will be stamped upon their charac-
ters.”
	Ephesians 6:4: “And ye fathers, pro
voke not your children to wrath; but
bring them up in the nurture and admo-
nition of the Lord.”
	Oftimes parents offend their children
by a word or a phrase, saying, “Oh, you
fool!” or “You ain’t got any sense!” if
they did not do everything exactly right.
Children are sensitive, and their little


[Column 1]
hearts are easily hurt. There are chil-
dren who are accustomed to hear such
language; but what kind of children are
they? Children who are ding-donged at
and receive a volley of harsh words for
every little mistake, can never rise or at-
tain to that high standard of morality to
which they might if better examples were
set before them.
	“What we want our children to be
we must be also,” is a true saying.
“Bring them up in the nurture and ad-
monition of the Lord” is the same exhor-
tation to parents in this day.
	Doc. and Cov. 68: 25-28: “And again,
inasmuch as parents have children in
Zion, or in any of her stakes which are
organized, and teach them not the doc-
trine of repentance, faith in Christ the
Son of the living God, and of baptism,
and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the
laying on of hands when eight years old,
the sin be upon the heads of parents;
	“For this shall be a law unto the in-
habitants of Zion or any of her stakes
which are organized;
	“And their children shall be baptized
for the remission of their sins when eight
years old and receive the laying on of
hands.
	“And they also shall teach their chil-
dren to pray and to walk uprightly before
the Lord.”
	Children at any age should be obedient
and regard their parents rights. Nor
have they any right to dictate to their
parents what they ought to do or ought
not to do. How beautiful to see or hear
a young man or woman asking counsel
or advice of the parents the same as
when they were young children. Surely
these are examples in every Latter-day
Saint home. The Savior, having such
great wisdom and knowledge that He
could astound the lawyers, doctors, and
wise men with questions and answers,
doing the will of His Father in heaven,
yet was He obedient to His earthly par-
ents, for “He was subject unto them.”
	“Honor thy father and thy mother” is
one of the commandments given to Moses
for the children of Israel. With this
commandment was a promise given,
“that thy days may be long upon the
land.”
	God is the Father of our spirits, and
we should honor Him by keeping His
commandments. If we do this we shall
love Him. Next to God we should hon-
or our parents, those who gave us birth,
watched over us with tenderness and
love, have cared for us and trained us up
in our youth and we being the most help-
less beings God had created while in in-
fancy, therefore need the utmost care.
	How dangerous for a young man or
woman to judge their parents, finding
fault with them, saying if they had done
better or differently we would have been
better and could have done better. But
we do not know of their opportunities or
their environment.
	Shakespeare says, “We think our fath-
ers fools: our sons will no doubt think us
so.”
	Those parents who came here for
the gospel’s sake to this blessed land,
where saints and prophets are, and can
draw inspiration from the beauties of na-
ture—from vale and mountain,—have
placed their children in a better way of
advancement. There is no excuse for
those who have the gospel which teaches

[Column 2]
us right and truth, and by keeping the
commandments of God we will find no
time to find fault, and especially with
our parents. We will not feel to do so.
	No greater honor can children bestow
upon parents than by walking in the
paths of virtue, truth and righteousness.
It will fill their souls with joy and peace,
and would call down heaven’s choicest
blessings; then we could expect our chil-
dren to fill our lives with joy and peace.
Surely this would prolong life, and the
promise could not help but be fulfilled,
“that thy days may be- long upon the
land which the Lord thy God giveth
thee.”
	“Charity begins at home,” so says the
old proverb.
	If we are charitable at home we can ex-
pect to be elsewhere. Charity is a virtue
which raises the soul nearer heaven.
	Corinthians 13th chapter. Charity in
all its forms is to be admired, and when
practiced in the form of love and for-
bearance it is beautiful. If we take
charity in the form of almsgiving, it
should be encouraged, but we may be lib-
eral in almsgiving and not be charitable.
We may set a table and decorate it beau-
tifully, and place rich food before our
guests, but if we are not charitable, it is
not true hospitality. If we see every
fault and failing with those with whom
we associate and make remarks on them,
we are wanting in true charity.
	If ever there were a people whom the
Savior could not tolerate, it was the hyp-
ocrites, who said and did things just to be
seen of men. But he said, “Verily, veri-
ly I say unto you, they have their re-
ward.” As the old story goes, of the
rich man who passed by, and refused a
poor, ragged girl who asked him for a
penny to buy bread as he went to church
to give in his thousands of dollars to the
poor. How the people praised him and
put his name in the papers in big head-
lines and said how generous and liberal
he was. Truly he got his reward—the
praise of men. We have reason to be-
lieve there are many instances of true
charity throughout the world where there
is distress, sickness and poverty, where
there is no one to see, only the individu-
als themselves, and no one to record. But
we believe, as the song says, “Angels
are silent notes taking of every action,”
etc.
	Deut. 15: 11: “The poor shall never
cease out of the land,” therefore I com-
mend the saying, “Thou shalt open thine
hands wide unto thy brother, to the
poor, and to thy needy in thy land-” The
scriptures are full of such admonitions.
There are many ways of helping the
poor. We can see the wisdom of our
Father in inspiring the Prophet Joseph
Smith to organize the Relief Society.
Truly much good has been done, and we
cannot estimate the great good which
will be done through the organization.
Then we have a chance to give fast-offer-
ings or donations to the poor, and by pay-
ing an honest tithing the poor need not
want.
	In the sayings of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, by O. B. Huntington. On one
occasion the Prophet was asked the
meaning of the words of the Savior,
“Make to yourselves friends of the mam-
mon of unrighteousness, and when ye fail
they may receive you into everlasting
habitations.” Brother Huntington mar-

[Column 3]
veled at the words; this is as near as he
remembers them:
	“That every man will fail some time.
Be charitable and liberal with your sub-
stance, for it is only a secondary consid-
eration—the use you make of it is the
primary consideration. You may do good
to some one who is down today, and who
will be on the top of the wheel when you
are down; for every man will fail some
time.”
	Charity obeys the Lord’s commands:
“Do unto others as you would have them
do to you;” “Love thy neighbor as thy-
self;” “Thou shalt not bear false witness
against thy neighbor.”
	Charity is self-restraint, self-forgetful-
ness. It does not willingly listen to the
voice of slander, and if compelled, does
not repeat it. Charity is characteristic
of a true woman and gentleman. Polite-
ness born of charity, is gentle, engaging
in manner, and shows in every action of
a true and refined woman, while lack of
charity and vulgar manners are looked
upon with contempt and such persons are
neither loved nor respected. 
	It is necessary that mothers train their
little ones to practice little acts of char-
ity and kindness, te be polite to brothers
and sisters as well as to visitors or strang-
ers. Mothers should not encourage tale
bearing or to speak unkindly of their 
playmates., for allowing these feelings to
take root in their little hearts unchecked,
the seeds of future uncharitable feelings
are sown. Teach them lessons of self-
denial and unselfishness. Point out to
them to do to others as they would be
done by, and to return good for evil. It 
may seem hard, but with patience and
perseverance, good results will be seen,

		A POEM ON SYMPATHY,
O sympathy, thou greatest gift of God!
E’en in the greatest men who earth have trod
So rarely found! Thy gentle, beauteous calm
Acting on we ry souls like healin[-] balm,
Dispelling care and softening the pain,
Brings with it peace, restores to life again.
Behold it yonder, by the sufferer's bed,
It smooths the pillows, cools the aching head,
Speaks tenderly, and by its inward power
Makes the long day of pain seem but an hour.
Daring disease its mission to fulfill;
Flies swift on eagle’s wings to do God’s will;
Fearless of danger, even o the grave
’Twould hasten, but one pang of pain to save.
’Tis but a look the h aving of a sigh,
The clasped hand, the tear-drop in the eye,
All speak its language—eloquence divine!
That makes the soul that feels its presence
	shine
With God-like beauty, shedding rays of light, 
In rays of glory, through the darkest night
Of human pain, perplexity and care
Longing to ease the burden and to share
With those distressed the misery and woe.
Those who have felt its value only know
The soothing magic of its tender love:
Its wondrous strength, yet gentle as a dove,
Could I the riches of a king command, 
Amid the train of earth’s proud heroes stand
A conqueror—applanded and admired,
Or could I, with the zeal of science, fired 
Discover planets, know each flashing star,
And tell the world the distances they are,
And had not sympathy within my breast,
I were a poor, a miserable jest, 
Compared with him who can for others feel,
Who gently tries the wounded heart to heal,
E'en though he were the poorest on the earth,
Yet in this one a pearl of wondrous worth
In sight of God; and deemed by Him to be
A king, who hath within him sympathy.

	By reading the life of Christ we will
find that he was the most sociable and
sympathetic Being that ever lived on the
earth. And if we are His followers we
should try to follow His example.


He exercised His love and tenderness
towards every one. His daily duties
were made up of relieving the sick, the
distressed ones, healing the afflicted. He
comforted the poor, the lowly, the down-
cast and weary-hearted, and those who
had cause to mourn. He knew the sor-
rows and griefs of the soul, the pains and
aches of the human heart, and the temp-
tations which come to every one.
	Through His own severe suffering He
could feel for all of us. He taught us to
love, pray for and forgive our enemies—
the hardest thing for mortals to do. Yet
He taught us by example, and even were
the last act of His life, for He healed
Judas’ (His traitor’s) ear. Then, when
left entirely in the hands of His enemies,
taking all their scoffs, scorn and mockery
without a word or look of reproach, suffer-
ing untold agonies, utterly forsaken by
friends, it seemed He stood alone. Yet
He could look upon His enemies and
pray, “Father forgive them, for they
know not what they do.”
	He had won the victory over every
weakness of the human heart. The hon-
or and glory He gave to His Father. Now
He intercedes with Father and pleads for
His children always, for He is our Savior
and our King.
			MARY BERLIN JOHNSON.
	Huntsville, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A DREAM OF BURIED THINGS.
I dream a dream of roses
	That perished long ago;
Of hyaeinths and mignonettes,
Ah, dream of tenderest regrets!
	Ah, morn of storm and snow!
I dream a dream of childhood,
	Though s l[-]er[-] my brow;
I still am with the merry one,
	A merry partner now;
Ah, dream of long forgotten things;
Ah, perished moths of gaudy wings!
			WILLIAM B. CHISHOLM.


WHEN YOU COME HOME.
What golden suns will gild the happy skies,
What incense from the meadow altars rise,
What hymns fill all the groves with glad sur-
	prise—
			When you come home!
How memory-bells will softly ring and rhyme
Amid the dear old ivied towers of time,
As arm in arm we listen to their chime—
			When you come home!
At Joy’s bright festal board shall we sit down,
And Mirth and Music, each wi h myrtle crown,
Will drive away the tear, the sigh, the frown—
			When you come home!
Suspense will quickly change to calm content,
Desire with rare fulfilment will be blent,
And meeting be one long, sweet sacrament—
			When you come home!
					CLARENCE URMY.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Box
Elder Stake met in the First Ward Meet-
inghouse, Tuesday, June 18th, 1907,

[Column 2]
President Susannah P. Booth presiding,
present besides the stake Relief Society
officers, President Oleen N. Stohl and W.
C. Horsley of the Stake Presidency.
	After opening exercises singing, prayer,
etc., Prest. S. P. Booth was thankful to
her Heavenly Father for His blessings to
her, and she had a desire to do her duty.
Said the prophecies that had been given
were being fulfilled. Spoke at some
length on the Word of Wisdom; said if
we tried to live up to the commandments
the Lord had given us, He would bless
us, urged the sisters to pay their tithes
and offerings; also spoke on the storing
of grain; had visited some of the associ-
ations and found a good spirit prevailing,
was pleased with the interest that was
being taken in the “Mothers’ Work.”
May the Lord bless us and help us to do
our duty.
	Annie C. Johnson, President of the
first ward, Brigham City, reported the
Mothers’ work, which was doing nicely.
Felt to thank the Lord for the blessings
He bestowed upon them in their labors.
Charlotte W. Boden, President of the
second ward, Brigham City, said the
teachers visit quite regularly; spoke on
the Word of Wisdom, and felt if we
could live it, it would be for our good.
	Emma Lee, President of the third
ward, Brigham City, said they had a good
per cent who kept the Word of Wisdom;
gave many good instructions on the same.
	Prest. Sarah J. Wilde of the fourth ward,
Brigham City, reported the teachers visit
quite regular, and were doing a good
work, were doing well in the Mothers
Work. Spoke some on the Word of Wis-
dom. Felt well in the Relief Society
work, and in the work of the Lord; urged
all to try and overcome evil, and try to
do all the good they could.
	Sister Torbinson of Snowville: they
had a good band of sisters, were doing
well with their Mothers Work; had no
poor, but were all working and trying to
do their duty to the best of their ability.
	Stake Counselor W. C. Horsley was
very pleased to see so many present, and
find the attendance so good, 18 associ-
ations being represented out of 20. Took
up the subject of Word of Wisdom, urged
all to go to their Heavenly Father and
ask his help to keep it. Spoke on having
watchful care over our children and to
set them good examples.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. af-
ter singing and benediction.
	Afternoon session, after opening exer-
cises Prest. Booth said we had a little
change to make in the stake board, Sis-
ter Lettie Forsgreen having resigned as
corresponding secretary. Sister Lula B.
Call was chosen and sustained to fill the
vacancy.
	Prest. Sophia Anderson reported the
Bothwell society as doing very nice-
ly, but on account of so much sickness
had not been able to meet regularly; had
a good band of sisters who were trying to
do their duty, thought the Word of Wis-
dom was kept by the majority of the peo-
ple.
	Sister Louisa E. Peters said her health
had not been the best, but thought trials
sometimes come upon us to test us, spoke
on the conveniences today, but thought
there was also more temptations to lure
our children away; felt we should pray
for them that they might not go astray.

[Column 3]
She asked the Lord to bless the Relief
Society that it may grow in strength and
good works.
	Prest. Sophia Larsen of East Garland
wondered if we appreciate the many good
things we hear from time to time, felt we
often make excuses for not attending
meeting. Spoke on the Word of Wis-
dom, felt it was for our good to keep it,
and receive the promise given if we keep
the commandments of the Lord.
	A hymn entitled “The Lord Imparted
from Above,” etc., was sung by Sister
Martha Ensign.
	Sister Emma Pratt, President of the
Scandinavian association, said we all have
a testimony that the Gospel is true and
bore her testimony to the truth of the
same; the Scandinavian sisters were still
having good times together, they pay their
donations, had emigrated recently two
sisters; when they hold their meetings
their instructions were Word of Wisdom,
tithing, and all things for the good of the
sisters.
	Counselor Emilia D. Madsen spoke on
the Word of Wisdom, felt pleased with
the visiting committee, thought it would
do much good in getting the people out
to meetings; said a few words on the
Mothers work, and on her early experi-
ence and the trials she had to endure for
the Gospel, said when our spirit is full of
energy we want to do good, spoke against
girls picking up acquaintances with
strangers; felt it was a privilege to live in
this day.
	Sister Lula B. Call read a letter ad-
dressed to the sisters from Sister Wells,
the General Secretary, explaining why the
missionaries could not come.
	Counselor Mary J. Harding knew the
Gospel was true, spoke on the Word of
Wisdom; thought we could keep it if we
tried. She had enjoyed many blessings
and was trying to overcome her weak-
nesses, urged keeping our children home
at night, referred to the Mothers work
and the good it was to our young moth-
ers.
	A duet was nicely rendered by Misses
Emma Stohl and Severena Madsen enti-
tled “Springtime of the Soul.”
	Stake President Oleen N. Stohl was
pleased at the attendance of the confer-
ence, felt the sisters were setting a good
example for the future, hoped the officers
of the stake were united, urged them to
hold their board meetings and have a
thorough understanding on all things that
was to come before their meetings. Gave
his experience on reading at home, spoke
on dress and the disposition of our wo-
men to keep in fashion. Spoke on the
Word of Wisdom, read the revelation on
the same; said if we obey the laws of God
we would secure our blessings. God
bless the sisters in this noble cause and
give you strength to overcome evil. 
	Prest Booth felt the time had been
well spent, said a few words on the Word
of Wisdom, had faith in her Heavenly
Father and knew he would help her to
overcome her weaknesses. Prayed the
spirit of this conference might rest upon
all of us and that we might take it home
to help us in our labors. Asked the bless-
ings of the Lord upon all.
	Singing “How Firm a Foundation.”
Benediction by Sister Sadie Stohl.
	ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD, Asst. Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent
	
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s cond class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	OCTOBER, 1907


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our president of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters of
the Relief Society or others who might de-
sire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blesssngs.” Pub-
lished for her eighty-fifth birthday. There
are in the book good pictures of Sister
Smith thirty-five years ago, also one taken
forty years ago with Sisters Eliza R Snow,
Zina D. H. Young, and Emily P. Young,
and one taken recently. Price of the book,
fifty cents.


[Column 1]
OCTOBER GENERAL CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints this year
was one of the largest if not the very largest
in attendance of people ever held. It is not a
remarkable fact when we consider the growth
of the Church not merely at home by means
of family life, but the spread of the work in
other lands and in our own country, which
necssarily means numbers of Saints gath-
ering to Zion. The fact remains, how-
ever, that the crowds at the conference meet-
ings could not find standing room in the
large tabernacle; and other places also were
filled to overflowing on Sunday, October 6,
1907. Indeed, when all the halls available
near the Temple were filled, the streets were
crowded with people; therefore, it is safe to
say Zion is growing, but when we give the
true interpretation of Zion, “the pure in
heart,” will it apply then?
	The sermons delivered during the confer-
ence were of the very best, sound, practi-
cal advice, wise and judicious reasoning,
though plain and clear, easily comprehend-
ed by all who heard the inspired words of
the speakers. The sacred music was of the
highest order, uplifting the soul and mellow-
ing the feelings of the human heart. There
was really nothing to mar the harmony
that prevailed in the large and cruwded as-
semblies, and there was much food for
thought that will benefit all who heard the
words of eternal truth uttered by the in-
spired men of God who addressed the
people with such sublime eloquence as to
appeal to the higher nature of the vast mul-
titude of men and women.
	When one reflects upon the great men of
today who speak to us from time to time,

[Column 2]
and recall the great men of the past, whose
names are familiar to the Latter-day Saints,
we c[-]n but wonder that greater progress
spiritually has not been made. But it is
only natural that we should need while here
in this earthly probation, line upon line,
precept upon precept, here a little and there
a little. We are like children—we need re-
minding of our duties and obligations; and
though it be necessary sometimes to chas-
tise the saints, yet the Lord is even more
merciful than we could expect or even than
we ourselves often are to each other. Cer-
tainly the blessings poured out upon this
people (called Mormons) here in these
mountain vales are far beyond what could
have been anticipated by even the most
hopeful.
	Indeed, thinking of the crude primitive
times in the early days in this valley, and
coming upon such scenes of opulence and
splendor as are seen nowadays, is like listen-
ing to a fairy tale. But meantime are we
laying up treasures in heaven commensurate
with what we are participating in here? We
must all answer for ourselves, and let us
hope and believe many of this people who
have come here for the Gospel’s sake are.
The young generation, born here in the
midst of plenty, do not and cannot realize
what the early settlers endured nor the sac-
rifices they made. Many of these things
are too harrowing in detail to bear repeat-
ing, and if told they could never be por-
trayed as they actually transpired.
	It is not worth while to dwell upon the
past. The immense future that is looming
up before this people and world will occupy
the attention, call for all the activities of
the men and women who live, or who will
be living to take part in the great dispensa-
tion now being ushered in; and it behooves
all those who are partakers of the Gospel
“feast of fat things,” to be diligent “in
season and out of season,” and help in the
work established, that none may fail for lack
of understanding, or because the watchmen in
Zion have been sleeping at their post—and
the writer includes in the word watchmen
women as well as men, mothers as well as 
fathers, and fathers as well ss mothers. 
	Certainly, there never has been a time 
when every organization of the holy priest-
hood and every auxiliary organization in 
the Church, and under its auspices was in 
such good order and as well and harmon-
iously regulated as at present, and when 
every endeavor seems to be put forth to 
bring all quorums and organizations up to 
sueh a high standard of excellence. 
	All this is a matter of rejoicing, and yet 
there are more avenues opening every day, 
one might say, for the workers. All is not
done, nor perhaps begun, though many 
have finished their work here and gone for-
ward (according to the faith in which they 
so implicitly trust), and many new recruits 
have come and are still coming, and the 
hosts of Israel are still being added to and 
strengthened, and yet all are not converted, 
and we have more or less of vanity and ar-
rogance, and pride and frivolity among those 
who are growing up right here; but what 
more can be done will undoubtedly be by 
those who are vigilant and faithful in the 
interests of Zion and her people. 
	The Lord is mindful of his covenant 
people, and will fulfill all His promises con-
cerning Zion. “Beautiful for situation, the 
joy of the whole earth is mount Zion.
* * * God is known in her palaces for a 
refuge. For lo, the kings were assembled—
they passed by together. They saw it, and

[Column 3]
so they marveled, they were troubled and 
hasted away.” * * *
	“Walk about Zion, and go round about 
her, tell the towers thereof.”


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The general conference of the Relief
Society of the Church was held on Thurs-
day, October 3, 1907, in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, and was the
largest congregation in the forenoon ever
present at a morning session. The organ
was draped with the Society banners, and
potted plants and cut flowers ornamented
the stands, where the presiding officers
and speakers were seated.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith presid-
ed and made an address of welcome, that
won the hearts of her audience, as well as
their most respectful and earnest atten-
tion to every word she uttered in her dig-
nified and saint-like, womanly way.
	The music was excellent in every par-
ticular, the hymns well chosen, and those
who sang and played seemed to partake
of the lofty spirit of the sacred occasion.
	The sisters from a distance who report-
ed their work were pleasing and concise
in presenting the subjects with which
they had to deal, and the spirit of the
Relief society as it is understood by its
workers was embodied in the reports,
the teachings and instructions given.
	The afternoon session was still more
largely attended, the gallery as well as
the lower hall being filled with ladies. A
few brethren were present also, and the
congregation was favored with the pres-
ence of two of the Apostles, Elder John
Henry Smith and Elder George Albert
Smith, who each addressed the audience
on Gospel subjects, dwelling at some
length upon woman’s part in the great
plan of salvation, giving much credit to
the mothers in Israel for the labor already
accomplished, and urging upon the young-
er women to take hold of the work of the
Relief Society, and assist in the mission
of ministering to the sick and afflicted,
comforting the sorrowing and clothing
and feeding the hungry and destitute.
	The brethren seemed to realize the im-
portance and magnitude of this charitable
and philanthropic organization, and to
appreciate the fact that more of the
younger sisters are needed in this first
and greatest society of the women of this
Church.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells had been
given to speak upon at this afternoon
session “Reminiscences of President Em
ma Smith’s two counselors in the first Re-
lief Society organized.” Sarah M. Cleve-
land and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, there
was very little time and therefore only a
few points touched upon, but some items
may appear in the minutes of this interest-
ing conference at a later date.
	On Monday, October 7, 1907, a testi-
mony meeting of the General Relief So-
ciety was held in Barratt Hall, which was
filled with sisters, many of them from far-
off stakes of Zion, Mexico and Canada,
and some from foreign lands. It was a
very interesting meeting, and would be a
wonderful spectacle to women unac-
quainted with the lives and efforts of the
women of Zion. At this meeting Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith presided, and
bore her testimony of the truth of the
Gospel, and of the divine mission of


Joseph Smith the Prophet of the Lord,
with whom she was personally acquaint-
ed and could speak from her own experi-
ence and observation. Sister Emmeline
B. Wells offered the opening prayer.
Excellent music was also furnished for
this meeting, and the spirit of the Lord
was manifest throughout the services, the
only drawback being that there was not
sufficient time for many who desired to
speak.
	At 2 p. m. in the Assembly Hall, on the
same day, Monday, Oct. 7th, the quinquen-
nial meeting of this great society of wo-
men, that extends all over the word (al-
most in every land and clime) was held
and important business transacted. This
meeting is for all the women of the So-
ciety and all who are interested in it even
if they are not members. A brief review
of the work of the Society at home and
abroad is given and much that is not so
well known to the sisters generally is
gone, over that the members may know
what is being accomplished and for what
purposes, and how the means entrusted 
to the General Society is used for the pub-
lic welfare of the society at large.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY WORK ABROAD.
	One of the members of the Board of
Directors or General Board of the Relief
Society as it is perhaps better understood,
Sister Romania B. Penrose, is now so-
journing abroad, and since she left home
last January she has been doing active
work among the sisters in Great Britain,
Ireland and Scotland. Sister Penrose
has assisted President C. W. Penrose and
other Elders, presidents of conferences
or local brethren reorganizing nineteen
branches of the Relief Society and in re-
organizing some others.
	In the Irish conference there are two
branches, one in Dublin with Wilhelmnia
Baker president, and Babette Retz sec-
retary. In Belfast, Maud Ditty, presi-
dent, Agnes Anderson secretary. In
North London, London Conference R. S.
I. R. Crafts Pres., A. M. Stevens Sec.
In the Liverpool Conference there are
two branches of the Relief Society organ-
ized the Blackburn, Sarah Grayson Pres.
Elizabeth Ann Haworth Sec. Accrington,
Mary H. Grimshaw Pres. Ada Watson Sec.
In the Grimsby Conference there are two
branches of the Relief Society. One in
Hull, Annie Elizabeth Crafts Pres. Lillian
Maud Thomas Sec. In York, Alice Day
Pres. Gertrude Harrow Ainslie Sec. Lei-
cester Branch, Nottingham Conference
Sarah Jackson Pres. Lilian B. Hunt Sec.
Bristol branch, Bristol Conference, Mary
Ann Jane Caswell Pres. Ada Capel Sec.
Sneffield branch, Sheffield Conference
Annie Eliza Shaw Pres. Annie M. Wright
Treas. Name of Sec. not glven. Worksip
Sheffield Conference Lucy Fretwell Pres.
Rosa Cockings Sec. Hyde Branch Man-
chester Conference Sarah Jane Rowbottom
Pres. Edith Morgan Sec. Norwich, Nor-
wich Conference Elizabeth Southgate Pres.
Alice Bunell Sec. From all of these we
have received statistical and financial re-
ports, but these are all newly organized
and it is due to Sister Penrose efforts that
these reports have been sent in.
	There is also a financial report and let-
ter from Berlin, and we just received in the
Millennial Star report of a Relief Society
organized at Stratford more recently.


Stratford branch, London Conference
Relief Society organized October 8, 1907
Leah Beus Pres. Bessie Dreapes Sec. Re-
lief Society organized in Harthford, New-
castle Conference, Elizabeth Allison Pres.
Margaret M. Spark Sec. In Carlisle New-
castle Conference Relief Society organized
Fannie Walker Pres., Miss Sarah J. Wet-
tersal Sec.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		TETON STAKE.
	The Teton Stake Relief Society Con-
ference convened at Driggs June 23, 1907.
President Sophia E. Rigby presiding.
	One visitor, Mary C. Lambert from the
General Relief Society. There were seven
of the Stake Board present, fifty local
officers and members and a good repre-
sentation of the Priesthood.
	After the preliminary exercises Presi-
dent Sophia E. Rigby delivered the open-
ing address and welcomed those present.
The following wards were then reported:
	Victor, by Counselor Vilate Wilson.
	Pratt, by President Hannah Stevens.
	Driggs, by Counselor Mary Fairbanks.
	Clawson, by President Mary Henry.
	The reports showed that an interest
was being manifest by the Relief Society
workers.
	Sister Mary C. Lambert of the General
Society spoke earnestly of the interest
that should be manifest in the rising gen-
eration; and the storing  of grain was
spoken of and the necessity of it, also of
the divine mission of Joseph the Prophet.
	President Sophia E. Rigby gave an out-
line of the work being done in the stake.
	President D. C. Driggs of the Teton
Stake spoke of the spirit of inspiration
that comes to Latter-day Saints while lis-
tening to an account of the life and labors
of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	J. D. Kilpack, jr., of the Stake Presi-
dency spoke of the great work that was
done by the Prophet Joseph.
	The afternoon session of the conference
was the largest since the stake has been
organized.
	The first was a lecture, “Noblest Mis-
sion of Woman,” by Lizzie H. Durrant.
	Ottilia Holden sang a Solo, “Show me
the Way O Father.”
	Haden was reported by Prest. Martha
Little; Cache by President Mary A.
Swensen.
	Irma Wilson and Ella Rigby sang a
Duet, “Come Holy Spirit.”
	Counselor Susie M. Wilson of the Stake
Board spoke of having the spirit of our
work to make it a success.
	Counselor Sylvia M. Thompson spoke
of the importance of Relief Society work
and of the broad field that it covers.
	Emma Fairbanks gave a lecture, “He-
redity and prenatal influence.”
	Mary C. Lambert gave valuable in-
structions for the advancement of Relief
Society work; also spoke of spreading the
truths of the Gospel and of the nobleness
of the missionaries who are in the field.
	Patriarch John Leatham spoke of the
marriage covenant and the pattern the
young people should follow, the Patriarch
also gave a blessing to the Relief Society
workers.
	Elder Geo. S. Young of the Stake Pre-
sidency spoke of the frivolity that has
taken hold of some of the young people.

[Column 2]
	T. R. Wilson of our High Council spoke
on how the example set for children al-
ways remained with them.
	President D. C. Driggs read a part of a
letter from a member of the Church living
in Louisiana who is sick. A resolution
was adopted for the Relief Society to help
the afflicted family.
				LYDIA E. FULLMER,
							Secretary.
	P. S. In the evening the Stake Board
gave the Preliminary Program for the
Driggs Y. M. and Y. L. M. I. A. The
time was then given to Sister Lambert
and members of the Board. The remarks
of Sister Lambert were very much ap-
preciated and we hope she will soon visit
us again.

			UINTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference (also
the Annual Conference) was held in the
New Stake Tabernacle at Vernal, August
26, 1907. President Sarah M. Colton pre-
siding.
	There were present with us Sisters
Emma S. Woodruff and Annie Wells
Cannon of the General Board from Salt
Lake City. There were also several
brethren of the Priesthood and a good re-
presentation of sisters. After the usual
opening exercises President Sarah M.
Colton welcomed the sisters, and spoke
of the completion of the tabernacle. She
reported her work and gave a short his-
tory of the Relief Society from the first
settlement of this valley until the present
time.
	General and local officers were sustained,
also a financial report of the Stake Board
was read.
	We had reports from the following pre-
sidents:
	Hannah Odekirk, Vernal Relief Society.
	Phoebe Hislop, Maeser Relief Society.
	Mary J. Hards, Glines Relief Society.
	Counselor Alice Billings, Jensen Relief
Society. 
	Counselor Adella Hunting, Naples Re-
lief Society.
	A Duet was given from Glines Relief
Society by Miss Effie Johnson and Bro.
Frank Thomas.
	Lecture by Annie K. Bartlett, entitled
“Duty of parents to children.”
	Emma Woodruff addressed the congre-
gation touched on childrens rights, and
the work of the Relief Society, advised
the sisters to gather grain in the time of
harvest, she read the remarks of Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith to the Relief So-
ciety given at Salt Lake City Conference,
advised the sisters to do all the good pos-
sible, bore her testimony to the truthful-
ness of the gospel.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon spoke of
the teachers’ duties in the Relief Society
and the character one should have; to
avoid all back biting, advised the young
women to join the Relief Society, warned
mothers not to send their daughters to
the cities to work without proper care,
urged the storing of wheat, and the im-
portance of the privilege of equal suffr-
age to women.
	President Colton announced officers
meeting at the close of this meeting, ad-
journed until evening at 7:30 to meet at
Vernal Ward House.
	Singing and Benediction.
Evening Session. Opened by singing
and Prayer. First on the program a lec-


[Column 1]
ture on “Charity,” given by Mrs. Annie
Young.
	President Colton said we want to place
some of our work before you. Our work
is not only in one way but many, feeding
the hungry, clothing the naked, nursing
the sick, comforting the mourners, we also
inform ourselves along gospel lines, in-
vited the young sisters and brethren to
visit the Relief Society often.
	A Solo was rendered by Brother David
Mainwaring.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon was glad to
continue the meeting, said that we could
accomplish more by organized Society
work than by individual effort, that the
Prophet Joseph Smith foresaw the good
that could be done by organization when
he gave the first $5.00 gold piece into the
Relief Society and said “what I do here-
after for charity I will do through the
Relief Society.” We are proud of our
organization, again advised the mothers
not to send their girls from home to work,
without every precaution being used.
	Sister Zina Young Card said, we know
the Relief Society was organized for good,
spoke of the work of the Relief Society
in carpeting the tabernacle which had
just been dedicated to the Most High,
advised parents to help them children to
get the land and keep it as God intended
it for our inheritance for the people who
seek God and His righteousness and not
those who live for self alone.
	Stake Counselor Don B. Colton said
if he would become a member of woman’s
organization it would be the Relief So-
ciety, spoke of the spirit of the members,
and the care for the sick, spoke on chari-
ty and its influence, and the work of the
Relief Society.
	Patriarch Samuel R. Bennion said if
we have anything to give to the poor give
it to the Relief Society, for mothers
should be the best judge of the childrens
wants, said do not wear one sister out
because she is willing to work, but call in
the young sisters to take care of the sick.
	President Colton thanked all who had
taken part in this conference.
	Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Conference adjourned for three months
after the Benediction.
			MARY B. HENRY,
				Assistant Secretary.
 
		BANNOCK STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Bannock Stake was held at Grace, Idaho,
June 18th, 1907. at 10 a. m., Stake Presi-
dent Eliza Hale presiding. After singing
and prayer by Patriarch Sterritt, roll call.
	Sister Margaret Rose reported Soda
Springs Relief Society. Sister Minnie
Hansen reported the Central Relief So-
ciety. Sister Esther Banks reported
Sterrit Relief Society. Sister Tolman re-
ported Chesterfield Relief Society. Sis-
ter Almira Meechum reported Trout Creek
Relief Society, all these in good working
order.
	Prest. Eliza Hale felt that her prayers
had been answered and the Relief Socie-
ty was a blessing to the sisters.
	Sister Emma Woodruff was pleased to
see so many of the brethren and sisters;
we should use our influence for good, the
teachers have a great mission to perform,
should encourage the young mothers to
come to our meetings, visit those not of
our faith and encourage them, keep in

[Column 2]
harmony with the Priesthood, she said
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith and Sis-
ter E. B. Wells sent their love to all the
sisters. We should have a system in our
work, spoke of the training of our chil-
dren. train them to pay their tithing; she
felt to bless the people out here in the
country.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde felt it a great
privilege to meet with the brethren and
sisters, what a great privilege we as
mothers have to bring sons and daughters
into the world, we should be cheerful in
our homes, The teachers should encour-
age the sisters in their homes, we should
endeavor to overcome our faults. Spoke
of the Mother’s work, we should ask the
Lord to help us in the bringing up of our
children. Spoke of the Nurse Class,
encouraged the sisters to take that course;
we should give our children practical
knowledge; spoke of the woman’s build-
ing; said they were going to join with
the brethren in building the house; en-
couraged the young mothers to come to
our meetings and not be lay members;
asked the blessing of the Lord on all.
	The afternoon session, at 2 p.m., Presi-
dent Eliza C. Hale presiding. Singing,
exercises as usual. Sister Eliza Thomas
reported Central Relief Society in good
condition. First Counselor Julia A. Pond:
“We as sisters have a great mission to
perform; she had been visiting the stake
with the other officers and enjoyed her
trip. The mothers have a great work in
our homes; the best way to get the Spirit
of the Lord is to attend our meetings, it
will help us to live our religion and teach
it to our children.”
	Second Counselor Louise Corbet said
we are thoroughly united as a board;
enjoyed her labors; asked the Lord to
bless all.
	President L. S. Pond felt by looking
over the congregation that the officers
would feel encouraged to see so many
present; spoke of encouraging love and
peace in the home; be congenial with our
companions: in the rearing of our sons and
daughters in the way they should go;
school ourselves to continue onward,
spoke of cleanliness in the home; the sis-
ters were engaged in a good and noble
work, felt to encourage them in helping
the poor and the sick, hoped the Lord
would help the new officers and all that
took part in this conference.
	Sister Emma Woodruff bore her testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
She knew that the Prophet Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God, she was person-
ally acquainted with him. We should
make our homes attractive and go with
our sons and daughters to their places of
amusement; bring them up to honor the
Priesthood; hoped we would all be true
and faithful; asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde urged the
sisters that gave reports to speak loud so
all could hear. We should be prompt
and have a system in our work; spoke on
punctuality, the officers should endeavor
to be at all the meetings. We should
beautify our homes; spoke of order in
our places of worship, and on the training
of children; show our children that we
love them, and encourage love in the
home; spoke of the noble work of moth-
ers; we should live the Word of Wisdomand teach it to our children, set a good
 example to those around us.

[Column 3]
	Brother Joseph T. Pond was pleased to
meet with us in this conference. we
should reduce to practice all the good
things we have heard today; we should
prepare ourselves for the life to come;
spoke of love and harmony in the home,
there is a crown of glory in store for the
mothers, we should be a light to the world
and not follow the fashions of the world.
May the Lord help us to keep His com-
mandments.
	Prest. Eliza C. Hale endorsed all that
had been said. Closed by singing “High
on the Mountain Top.” Conference ad-
journed for three months.
		CATHERINE SORENSON, Sec’y.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of
Alpine Stake was held in the Lehi Tab-
ernacle July 19th, 1907. President Re-
becca Standring presiding. Sisters Annie
T. Hyde and Julia P. M. Farnsworth and
Priscilla P. Jennings of the General Board
were present.
	After the usual opening exercises Pre-
sident Standring greeted the sisters and
reported the Stake in good condition but
still room for improvement. Thought
some of the wards were in a sleepy con-
dition, but hoped they would soon wake
up to their duties.
	Reports were given from three wards,
all doing well; quite a number of young
mothers joining.
	Teachers give good reports and poor
are relieved and sick visited.
	Sister M. A. Webb of Lehi, Stake Mis-
sionary was pleased to report her labors
in Lehi. There are many good sisters in
the wards, many aged ones and some
scattered but they are trying to live their
religion. There are many influences to
combat and trials to meet, Tried to im-
press the mothers with the necessity of
training their children. Felt we were
blest above all women on the face of the
earth.
	Sister Rachel Hunter, Stake Missionary
of American Fork, was proud of her stand-
ing and position, desired to carry a good
influence and always enjoyed her labors.
The sisters as a rule are interested in the
work but many are tied at home with
large families.
	The address of President Bathsheba W.
Smith to the Relief Society was read by
Sister Farnsworth.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke of Pre-
sident Smith, her love for the sisters and
her devotion to Temple work. Told the
teachers to go to the sisters houses and
tell them they are needed in the Relief
Society, and help and encourage them to
attend the meetings. Urge the young
women to attend the lectures which will
be a benefit to them. These pioneers
have been faithful for so many years, and
it will be found in the records when we
pass away. Get your children together
in the morning and pray with them, it
will pay you, for your children will be
benefited and you will be blest. We
should always have a cheerful counten-
ance and live up to all our requirements;
we must overcome evil with good, for we
are the chosen of the Lord and we are to
become saviors on mount Zion.
	Instrumental music by Sister Kirkham.
	President Stephen L. Chipman thought
that nowhere on the earth could we meet
a congregation of women with the same


goodness and purity of heart outside of
the Latter-day Saints. We know their
work and we appreciate their help and
understand their motives.
	Sister Jennings said: This is a broad
work. You must be charitable, make good
use of your time; this is our only chance
for doing our work, so let us be diligent
and do all we can. Let us train our
daughters to be pure, let us guard them
with all our might, let us bear our trials
with patience and prayer.  There is much
to be done and when we are in the line
of our duty we can do more than when
we take a day off.
	Sister Jennings said, we are the best
women on the earth and let us sustain
each other and sustain and uphold our
president.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session: President Standring
presiding. After the usual exercises, Pre-
sident M. A. Andersen reported Lehi 1st
ward. President Serena McKinney, Fair-
field branch. President Kate Allred Lehi
2nd ward.  All gave good reports, are
united and in harmony with the bishops.
	Sister Clarke read a sketch of the life
and labors of Sister Mary S. Hindley, 1st
president of the Relief Society of Ameri-
can Fork.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley.
Many people in the old world are longing
to come to this land, but when they get
here do we make them welcome? We
should call on them and assist them all
we can and show that we are not afraid
to associate with them as members of the
Church. Felt to testify to the sketch of
Sister Hindley’s life, knew that she had
been a mother to many besides her hus-
band’s children.
	President A. J. Evans testified that the
Relief Society is more diligent in their
labors than any other auxiliary organiza-
tion in the Church. Rejoiced in the gospel
and felt to sustain the efforts of the sist-
ers.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde. We are
working for the good of the people, let
us sustain every move which is for the
purity and advancement of the people.
Keep in touch with your children, join
them in their sports, go with them, we
want to throw every safeguard around
our children. Thought missionaries
should be sent to every district in every
ward. Prayed for a blessing on all.
	Sister Farnsworth knew the Alpine
Stake was a progressive stake in every
way. Spoke of the WOMANS EXPONENT,
our patriotism should go out in support
of this paper, and she urged the sisters to
take it. We have every thing to encourage
us, every thing in an educational way.
Our sons should be instructed in Relief
Society work for some may have to help
organize the Society in foreign lands.
	President James H. Clarke. Our Relief
Society is the strongest auxiliary organi-
zation in the Church. Our sisters know
that the Lord blesses their labors. We
are like children, we have to be constant-
ly reminded of our duties. Bore testi-
mony to the gospel, even the Savior could
not find favor with the people, the same
with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Singing, and Benediction by Counselor
Harriet Jacobs.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A TRIBUTE.
	To the memory of our dear sister
			JANE E. WHITE.
who departed this life August 16th, 1907, after a
few days illness. She was the daughter of John
a[-]d Jane Davi[-] and was born May 29th, 1863 at
Bountiful, Davis County, Utah. In connection
with her parents she removed to Arizona in 1878
and resided in St. John’s twenty four years, en-
during the hardships incident to the settl[-]ng of a
new country. L[-]ter, in 1905, she came to Basalt,
Idaho, where she has ever since resided.
	November 26th, she was married to John Elbert
White in the St. George Temple.
	She has been the mother of eight children. She
leaves a devoted husband and seven children (six
sons and one daughter), a father and mother two
brothers and three sisters to mourn her untimely
death
	Physically she was in a delicate condition, which
makes it all the more sad. All was done for her
relief that lov[-]ng hands could do, but to no avail,
God had called and she obeyed the summons.
	She was a faithful Latter-da[-] Sa[-]nt—she passed
peacefully away, in full assurance of a glorious
resurrection.
	The funeral services were held August 19th,
they were conducted by Bishop Wm. Dye. Many
beautiful florals were placed upon the casket by
her many dear friends expressive of their sorrow
and grief over her departure
	The speakers bore testimony to her integrity to
the gospel, and their remarks were consoling in
their nature.
	Sister Jane has been a member of the Relief
Society of this ward since her arrival. She was
chosen as 2nd counselor to President Nellie D.
D[-]e, April 25th, 1907. She magnified her calling,
although it was of a short duration, she won the
respect and love of her sisters.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Be it resolved that we the sisters of the Relief
Society of the Basalt Ward do most deeply mourn
the loss of so faithful a sister, and feel it is hard
to become re[-]onciled to her death, but are willing
to bow in humble submission to our Father’s will.
	Be it resolved that we extend our heart felt
sympathy to her husband, children parents,
brother and sisters, and ask God to bless them,
and make them feel that He is their friend.
	Be it further resolved that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of the Relief Society, a copy
given to the bereaved family, of the deceased, and
a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				NELLIE D. DYE, President,
				MARY LYONS, 1st Counselor,
				MARY E. FREEMAN, Secretary.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE U. W. PRESS CLUB,
From October 31, 1901 to October 31, 1906,
	with a brief history of the first decade.
	Lydia D. Alder historian.

	The U. W. Press Club was organized
at the Woman’s Exponent office Octo-
ber 31, 1891, as a result of a number of
letters that had been sent out calling a
meeting. On that occasion a number of
women writers met together. Mrs. E.
B. Wells was chosen temporary chair-
man, and Mrs. Julia I. McDonald secre-
tary pro tem. A permanent organization
was effected, with Mrs. E. B. Wells pres-
ident, Susa Y. Gates first vice-president,
L. Lula Greene Richards second vice-
president, Martha A. Greenhalgh vice-
president at large, Annie Wells Cannon
cor. secretary and Josephine Spencer as-
sistant cor. secretary, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
recording secretary, Ruth M. Fox treas-
urer, Dr. Romania B. Pratt auditor. The
name Utah Woman’s Press Club was
adopted, and the chairman appointed a
committe of three to prepare a constitu-
tion and by-laws.
	Susa Y. Gates, Romania B. Pratt and
Lucy A. Clark of Farmington formed
the committee. It was suggested that
at the first meeting, to be held November
30, 1891, each member contribute an

[Column 2]
original article; or address, on such se-
lected subject as would further the object
for which the club was organized, or be
subject to a fine not to exceed twenty-
five cents.
	The charter members were E. B. Wells,
Susa Y. Gates, Romania B. Pratt, Ellis
R. Shipp, L. L. Greene Richards, Julia
I. McDonald and Lucy A. Clark, all of
whom are still with us, excepting Julia
I. McDonald. Following are a few
extracts from the resolutions of condol-
ence and respect passed at the time of
her demise, which are spread upon the
minutes of the Club.
CLIPPINGS FROM THE OBITUARY OF JULIA IVINS
			M’DONALD PACE.

A womanly woman, what more can we say?
	Has passed from the gloom to the beautiful
		day;
As such she wss greeted, and if women we be,
	As such we shall know her eternally.

Methinks I see the books opened,
And an angel the pages turns o’er,
Till he comes to her name when he pauses;
	“Sainted woman, thou’lt sorrow no more;

Thy life has been weighed ln the balance,
	Which tipped at the weight of pure gold,
By this thy name is recorded ‘most worthy,’
	Enter into the joys of thy Lord.”
				RUTH M. FOX.
				ROMANIA B PRATT.
				LUCY A. CLARK.
							Committee.
	Appointed at the meeting held January 31, 1900,

	The original intention of the Club was
carried out, those assigned on the pro-
gram preparing themselves with original
articles, poems or addresses.
	The history of the first decade of the
Club, written and read by its writer,
Lydia D. Alder, at its tenth annual meet-
ing, shows that the Club has had a bril-
liant career. The same history was later
published in full in the Woman’s Expo-
nent.
	Many of its first members are still forg-
ing ahead in the literary world. Some
are holding newspaper positions of note
today, both at home and abroad. Ada
M. Patterson, one of the latter, is on the
staff of the New York Journal and even
now keeps in touch with the Club. Jo-
sephine Spencer, a writer of great merit,
is on the staff of the Deseret News, while
others are regular writers for the home
magazines, as well as those of the east.
At the present time, Dr. R. B. Pratt, name
changed to Penrose, is abroad in the mis-
sionary field with her husband, Charles
W. Penrose, president of the European
mission. Letters from her are prized by
her friends. They show no decrease in
her interest of those so long associated
with her in the uplifting of women.
	Perhaps no club in the state or nation
has been represented like the U. W.
Press in the congresses of the world.
The great congress and fair held in Chi-
cago in 1893 had delegates from Utah,
both of the Club and other women’s or-
ganizations.
	At the Quinquennial Congress held in
London June, 1899, there were present
of the Club members, E. B. Wells, Susa
Y. Gates, Carrie S. Thomas, M. A. Caine,
and Lydia D. Alder, Seven other Utah
ladies were of the party, who were num-
bered among Queen Victoria’s guests
when she entertained the foreign ladies
of the congress at tea, July 7, 1899, at


[Column 1]
Windsor Castle, the closing function of
that ever-to-be-remembered congress.
	Before closing this review of the first
decade of the Club’s existence, perhaps
it would be interesting to mention some
of its annual gatherings, notable women
entertained, and of the work accom-
plished along the lines of journalism and
poetic writings. A book of the Club’s
minutes has been lost, but the annual
meeting of 1894 gives us the names of the
offiicers of that year; they were as fol-
lows: Honorary President, E. B. Wells;
President, E. R. Shipp, M. D.; Ruth M.
Fox, First Vice-president; Lydia D. Al-
der, Second Vice-president; Lizzie S.
Wilcox, Recording Secretary; Assistant,
Ella W. Hyde; Cor. Secretary, R. B.
Pratt; Assistant, Olea Shipp, Treasurer,
C. C. R. Wells; Auditor, Phebe C. Young;
Dr. E. B. Ferguson, Chairman Program
Committee.
	Anniversary day being also Halloween,
a special program was arranged. We
had pleasant and unique gatherings in
the past, but this year rather exceeded
aome of its predecessors.
	Either by costume or symbol, the mem-
bers represented as truthfully as might be
some of the well known authors or liter-
ary characters. As her name was called
she arose, and any present could guess
at the character represented.
	Literature, history, fable, all were there.
Some of the costumes worn were beauti-
ful, striking, or original as the wearer de-
sired.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp as Portia looked im-
posing in judicial robes; impressive her
speech “The quality of merey is not
strained” etc. Ruth M. Fox attired in
various gaudy colors represented sergeant
Buz fuz, in Dickens. Miss Gladys Wood-
mannsee was Hypatia in Roman cos-
tume, Ella W. Hyde looked graceful in-
fern leaves with fern fan as Fanny Fern.
Dr. R. B. Pratt dressed as a nun read from
Longfellow’s “Evangeline”, By a co-in-
cidence, Phebe C. Young and Lizzie S.
Wilcox, each representing Lucile, as a
nun, had even chosen the same selection
from that work to read. However, the
ladies changed their selection which set-
sled the matter. C. C. R. Wells, repre-
sented “The Woman in White” from
Wilkie Collin’s novel of that name, Mrs.
Minnie J. Snow as Mrs. Hemans sang
sweetly a song from that author’s work.
Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, represented by a
symbol, Mrs. Browning, and with great
dramatic ability recited “Mother and
Poet” from her works. Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, very befittingly represented Eliza
R. Snow, giving selections from that
author. Mrs. Melissa Wilson, with white
gown and flowing hair, represented Per-
dita from Shakespeare, reading “A Win-
ter’s Tale.” Mrs. E. J. Stevenson, with
a beautiful rose, represented “Rose in
Bloom.” Nellie C. Taylor, in her quaint
and simple Quaker garb, pleasingly remin-
ded us of Lucretia Mott. Miss Olea Shipp
appearing as the “Bohemian Girl” played
beautiful airs from that opera. Miss Ellis
Shipp recited Longfellow’s “Birds of

[Column 2]
Kenilworth,” in cream-colored gown, be-
decked with birds and feathers of brilliant
hue. Miss Pearl Russel as “Little Red
Riding Hood” rendered a charming little
solo from that opera. After the character
delineations, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read a
summary of the year’s work of the Club;
the progress made and improvement
sought.
	An ovation was tendered to Honorary
President E. B. Wells, and President Ellis
R. Shipp, by the Reapers and Press Club,
on Saturday evening March 16th, 1895,
on their return from the Council of Wo-
men, lately convened in Washington.
They met many people of “classical edu-
cation and opportunities for the highest
culture in the land. Our representatives
attended the banquet given on the 75ths
anniversary of the birth of Susan B. An-
thony and spoke of the cordiality extended
to the Utah women. Mrs. Wells also spoke
of her visit to the beautiful home of Mrs
May Wright Sewall. Many memories were
revived, some pleasant, some disappoint-
ing, especially that of dear Aunt Zina,
who had failed to meet with them in the
National Council.
	The Club Minutes of April 3, 1895, make
mention, that the city that day was full
of excitement on the suffrage question
and on motion of Mrs. Wells, the meeting
was resolved into a meeting to discuss
Woman Suffrage, the question then
under discussion at the Constitutional Con-
vention. The speakers were Mrs. E. B.
Wells, C. C. R. Wells, Lizzie Wilcox,
Mrs. McLachlin and Richard R. Shipp,
H. A. Badger, Mary A. Clark, E. J. Ste-
venson, R. M. Fox, Helena Madsen of
Gunnison, Annie T. Hyde, Lydia D.
Alder, Mrs. Kister, Ella W. Hyde, Misses
Claire Ferguson, Laura Hyde, Florence
Alder, Ellis Shipp, and Miss May of Nephi
Dr. Ferguson, and M. A. Caine. All
pledging themselves to work for the Wo-
man Suffrage plank in the State Con-
stitution.
	The Club anniversary, of 1897, held at
the residence of Dr. Ellis R. Snipp, when
the following was the personel of its of-
ficers.
	Honorary President E. B. Wells, Past
Presidents E. R. Shipp and Ruth M. Fox.
President elected Dr. Romania B. Pratt
Rebecca H. Doolan and Helen Vilate
Kimball; Vice President at Large, Isabel
Cameron Brown, Secretary Mary A. J.
Lambert, Amiee Schiller, Assistant Secre-
tary Lydia D. Alder Cor. Secretary, Hattie
B. Harker Treasurer.
	No more unique and perhaps even
beautiful gathering was ever held in this
most hospitable home, than the one of
this year. The present was forgotten in
the past, and those of other years thronged
this favorite spot. I quote from the mi-
nutes.
	The ladies who were most conspicuous,
were first Lydia D. Alder as the sweet
poet Lydia H. Sigourney in lace mantilla
and appropriate costume throughout.
None guessed her character, even when
she read “Napoleon’s Epitaph” from that

[Column 3]
gifted author. On request of the ladies,
Mrs. Alder walked through each room
that all might see her, before she reveal-
ed, the character she represented. Lucy
A. Clark as Hypatia, in flowing raiment,
artistically draped discussed philosophy
like an ancient sage. Dr. Orielle Curtis
as Portia, with cap and gown looked like
a Doctor of Laws, in very deed, when
quoting “The quality of mercy is not
strained,” she appeared like a real Greek
heroine. Rebecca H. Doolan, with soft
white hair, and fine lace cap read from
the poems of the gifted Eliza R. Snow.
Ruth M. Fox was simply charming in her
Quaker bonnet, and severely plain garb
carrying in her hand the scroll of the Dec-
laration of Independence and giving the
pathetic, yet eloquent description of the
scene when the brave little woman made
herself forever famous on that memorable
night of the fire at the capitol. Ella .W
Hyde, in Puritan dress read one of Louise
M. Alcott’s sunshiny poems in a delight-
fully characteristic way. Edith R. Lovsey
read Longfellow’s poem to the flowers, in
a most charming style, while bedecked
becomingly in fresh and beautiful flowers.
She made a pleasant picture to the eye
and her voice is full of sweetness. Helen
Vilate Kimball as Lady Elizabeth Mon-
tague, made quite an imposing appear-
ance, richly dressed, her tall stately figure
showed to good advantage as a woman
of rank and title. No one was able to
guess her identity, not even when she
read quotations, from this celebrated
author’s “Letters from the Dead.” Of
this lady who was born 1720 and died in
1800 the poet Cowper said:
	The birds put off their every hue
	To dress a room for Montague.
	She was even more popular than her
illustrious kinswoman, Lady Mary Wort-
ly Montague, whom it is said suffered by
the comparison of her letters with those
of Lady Elizabeth.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, in heavy, rust-
ling silk, her beautiful hair in natural
curls so exactly like the portrait of Felicia
Dorothea Hemans as we see her in books
with fan and reticule and scroll, making
a complete study of the character, read
one of the sweetest poems written by 
this favorite author. Miss Pearl Russell
as Lady Claire, in simple gown with a
rose in her hair, repeated a verse from
that charming poem of Tennyson’s, and
looked as timid and as sweet as the Lady
Claire herself possibly could had she
stepped out from the poem. Aimee
Schiller, handsomely dressed, represented
the “Scarlet Letter,” in a style new and
unique, and her reading was excellent, as
well as her chosen selection.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, with a beautiful
dress of black silk entraine, and flowing
sleeves of glistening white that might
have been wings of angels, so airy and
fluttering they were, carrying in each
hand a luxuriant bunch of chrysanthe-
mums, and accompanied by her two
daughters, Olea and Ellis, on either side
as maids of honor, made a splendid pic-
ture of the Queen of Sheba, and as she
gave the quotation held up first the bou-
quet of real flowers, and then the arti-
ficial, asking which was the true and
which the false, and adding the half had
not been told, overcome as it were with
the splendor and magnificence of Solo-
mon’s Court.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 36		SALT LAKE CITY UTAH, DECEMBER, 1907. [CHRISTMAS-NUMBER.]			No. 5


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
A Birthday Greeting...............Lydia D. Alder	33
Obedience..........Sister Louisa Norris Decker	33
An Artistic Booklet.........................................	35
Notes and News.............................................34 & 35
Relief Society Reports:—Millard Stake.........	34
	Malad Stake............................................	35
	Sevier Stake............................................	38
“Why a Woman Should Desire to be a Mor-
	mon”.......................................................	39
Editorial:—The Prophet Joseph’s Birthday....	36
	In Memoriam..........................................	36
	Holly and Easter Lilies...........................	37
	Christmas Again.....................................	38
Poetry:—Respectfully Inscribed to our Gifted
	Poet, Henry W. Naisbitt....Nelly Becroft	33
	Birthday Greetings to Elder Henry W.
	Naisbitt...........................Lydia D. Alder	33
	His Message..................Louise Coulson	34
	Old Friends and Comrades.....................
	..................................Emmeline B.Wells	35
	A Likeness.................Alice Peet Bishop	35


RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED TO OUR
GIFTED POET, HENRY W. NAISBITT.

O sightless Poet! say not yet farewell!
But in thy nearness to the “Golden shore,”
Catching faint strains of “Life for Evermore,”
Half hearing “Mother’s voice” the “Anthem”
	swell,
Of visions like to these, let pen still tell;
Nor lay it yet aside, but as ye soar
Near the “Beyond,” thine inspirations pour
On souls aweary, and where sorrows dwell.
Thy gifted pen can soothe life’s deepest pain,
Can ease its cross, make clear its darkened way;
Then signal us again and yet again,
’Till “Unlatched door” is reached, and Endless
	day
On quickened vision bursts; there shalt thou reign
A king, a priest, a God for aye and aye.
		For the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
					NELLIE BECROFT.


BIRTHDAY GREETINGS
			TO
	ELDER H. W. NAISBITT.

A thought of love—a fragrant flower—
	As offering now we bring
So fair it bloomed in Eden’s bower,
	The choicest of the spring,
This birthday thought we bring to thee,
	Hath flowers that ne’er will fade;
Twined with it all the years to be
	The record thus hast made.

Thyself—thy foremost gift hath been
	Laid on the altar for His sake,
So life eternal thus doth win,
	When He thy gift shall take.
And generations yet to be,
	Far down the stream of Time,
Shall loving sing and speak of thee,
	Thy name for e’er will shine.

Thy pathway is not dark e’en though
	Denied to thee the glad sun’s rays;
For He is near who loved us so,
	And brightens all our days.
He leadeth thee, whose ways are right—
	Into the endless day,
He bringeth thee from out the night, 
	To dwell with Him alway.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
	A BIRTHDAY GREETING.
	On Thursday evening, November 7,
1907, a few old-time friends and fellow-
missionaries on the Temple block assem-
bled at the home of one who had spent
many years of his life in the mission field,
exhorting, writing and expounding the
faith he embraced as a boy in another
land—Henry W. Naisbitt.
	The patriarch, with flowing white hair
and sightless eyes. surrounded by his 
family and friends, reminded us of the
Ancient of Days, whom we are told gath-
ered his posterity around him, giving
them of his wisdom and knowledge, and
prophesying of the future, before he de-
parted to another life.
	A hymn, “God moves in a mysterious
way,” was sung and commented upon.
	By request, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read
“The Birthday Floral Cross” and “There
Shall be Light at Eventide, from Elder
Naisbitt’s book of poems, Rhymelets in
Many Moods:

How blessed that man, whose well filled years
	Of life's experience, tested, tried,
Enjoys in sunshine or in tears.
	Sweet “Light at Even-tide,”
	*	*	*	*	*	*
No conqueror ’mid the world’s applause,
	No monarch filled with regal pride,
So calmly waits as he who knows
	There’s “Light at Even-tide.”

True to his God, himself, the world,
	How nobly, yet with peaceful pride,
He points to Truth’s white flag unfurled
	’Mid “Light at Even-tide.”

When failing pulse foretells that life
	Is ebbing on death’s river side,
He feels around, with pleasure rife,
	Glad “Light at Even-tide.”

Ushered by angel bands, who dwell
	Where heaven undimmed, its gates set wide,
He needs no more that shade which fell—
	Earth’s “Light at Even-tide.”

	In behalf of the assembled friends and 
some who could not be present, Brother
Goddard presented the guest of honor
with a warm house coat, expressing the
desire that it should add to his comfort
and be a reminder of our friendship and
solicitude for his welfare. In closing, 
Brother Goddard spoke impressively of
Elder Naisbitt’s splendid record, ever
valiant for the truth, and of his gift—the
wisdom of a sage; adding his blessing
with that of thousands whom Brother
Naisbitt has blessed, and among whom
he has labored.
	Rising to his feet, weak and trembling, 
his voice often choked with a tide of emo-
tion, Brother Naisbitt responded with an
eloquence unspoken, to all that had been
done and said. At times he was reminis-
cent, speaking of days long gone, and
prophesying of the future of those who
loved and served the Lord,
	Abiding faith in the gospel was shown
when he spoke of his youngest son, Per-
cy, who had recently been crushed in an 
elevator, and whose recovery thus far is
a miracle, through faith in the Almighty.

[Column 2]
He further expressed the desire that Per-
cy should live, and carry the gospel tid-
ings to the nations afar. A happy time
of talking and blessing followed, all pres-
ent wishing Elder Naisbitt many more
birthdays—as many as be desired; and
then; all his heart craved in the Great
Beyond.
	After dainty refreshments were served,
the guests sang with spirit Brother Nais-
bitt’s own inspiration, “How swift the
months have passed away,” the author
recalling when it was first sung in the
“Old Bowery.”

	The happiest time must have an end,
	The saddest pass away.

	So we leave him in his daughter’s
peaceful home, with touch of hands, who
knows us but “by voice and memory, not by
sight,” taking with us here into the star-
ry night more than we had bestowed,
and the counsciousness that in doing good
ye are doubly blessed, and in blessing
blessings return.
						L. D. A.


OBEDIENCE.
(Part of a lecture given by Sister Louisa
	Norris Decker in the 22nd ward Relief
	Society.)

	Obedience brings good order, disobedi-
ence confusion. The elements were obe-
dient to God when He said, “Let there
be light.” The earth was created and all
therein in obedience to His command.
As all things have their opposite, right
and wrong, joy and sorrow, light and
darkness, obedience and disobedience be-
ing opposite, results of these are in ap-
proval or condemnation. We are told
that “obedience is better than sacrifice,”
and there has been many trying sacrifices
made by our people in obedience to the
Gospel. My sisters could tell many tales
of hardship, of sorrow, sickness, and death
of loved ones, the parting from homes,
kindred and native land, all so dear to
their hearts; yet for the truth and the
principle of gathering to Zion, where the
Saints can be united and receive many
blessings, they have gladly  made the
sacrifice to listen to the teachings of our
inspired leaders, and obey their counsel
(for it is a privilege), even coming to our
meetings and associating with our dear,
kind sisters, sustaining our president, her
counselors, and as we know them better
we love them more, We realize their
cares and responsibilities in being obedi-
ent to their calling, and we sustain them
by our faith and our presence.
	In history, very little is said of women.
History treats on the wonderful achieve-
ments of great men; of the nobility of
their nature, the good they have done
for the welfare of humanity, their good
deeds have been applauded, they have in
the good they have wrought obeyed the
instincts of a noble nature, inspired in
many instances; but these great, far-


[Column 1]
famed men received their first impres-
sions from their mothers. Through obe-
dience to the commandment given to mul-
tiply and replenish the earth, she carried
that man-child under her heart until the lit-
tle body was matured, and came forth to
fill his place in life’s great battle, that the
world should be better that he was born.
Ask whence came our great mathema-
ticians? Very few who praise this won-
derful man of figures ever think of the
patient, obedient, plodding mother, at-
tending to her household duties, studying
out the intricate pattern of a bedspread
she was weaving perhaps, while on her
bed in the dark hours of night, thinking
how to weave each thread, not to mar
the beautiful pattern; but these thoughts
and impressions made by the mother often
develop in the child characteristics that
tend to show what the prenatal influ-
ences and environment have been, as
many mothers have testified; though
great men, students of physiology and
doctors, may smile at this crude reasoning
of the mothers in this regard.
	It has been truly said; “the hand that
rocks the cradle rules the world,” yet
woman yields willing obedience and ac-
knowledges man as the head of the
home. Why is this? The best answer
to my mind is, God willed it so. The
children obey their parents because it is
right they should, to promote and main-
tain good order in the home, each one
attending to the duties assigned her or
him according to the child’s age and abil-
ity. We all love the obedient ehild; wil-
ling obedience comes through love and
kindness more often than by means of
harsh measures or strong language. In
my experience I have seen many children
with grieved hearts, eyes filled with tears,
lips quivering, because of cruel words
spoken in anger thoughtlessly. And how
many mother’s hearts have ached waiting
for the kind words that were never spok-
en, only women can answer. And again:
cruel words spoken or blows inflicted by
angry fathers, have driven many a child
from the protection of the home, from
the patient love of the mother or sister,
just at a time when the rebellious, out-
raged, resentful spirit needed their influ-
ence most, driven out to seek that which
was denied them at home, where they
had a right to expect love and tender-
ness. Be careful, young mothers, the
time will come when we will be called to
render an account of these things.
	Women should not shrink from the
responsibities of motherhood because of
trials. Why desire to settle down to the
narrow, selfish life, disregarding nature’s
laws and the commandmentts of God?
Children may bring you the greatest joy
of your life; but if not properly controled
they may bring you the greatest sorrow;
for who can cause us greater grief than
one of our own dear ones?—strong-willed,
disobedient, deaf to the eounsel of a lov-
ing mother, that has done the best she
knew. Sad indeed are these conditions,
but the Lord will help and many times
through prayer, great changes have taken
place in our families, for those who put
their trust in Him, for He doeth all things
well, and makes no mistakes. Mothers,
take on new courage, face the difficulties of
life bravely, and your reward will be
sure. If we do not meet good and evil,
how can we test our strength? How can
we overcome obstacles if there are no

[Column 2]
wrongs to meet, our brains would sleep,
our muscles grow weak; our troubles are
our blessings, as our enemies are our best
friends—they hold our shortcomings up
to view in such a distorted light that we
gladly turn from all our weaknesses and
grow better and wiser.
	Our enemies in the past have persecut-
ed and driven the Saints from their homes
and civilization; yet we have grown
stronger and better off in all respects;
yet they have followed us hither, and are
not content to leave us to ourselves.
There are many instances of courage and
heroism that might be given of those who
have borne the burden and heat of the
day, and who through obedience have
made sacrifices that were hard to endure,
yet have borne all patiently in faith and
humility.  History will record many of
the brave deeds of the Saints; but all can-
not be told; the angels who are watching
are “silent notes taking,” and the faith-
ful and true and tried will triumph, and
no power can hinder those who stand for
truth and righteousness from obtaining
the reward of obedience to the Gospel.
	“Obedience is the Christian’s crown.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		MILLARD STAKE.

	Relief Society Conference of Millard
Stake was held at Deseret, November 1,
1907, President Isabella E. Robison pre-
siding. There were present besides a
good representation of Society workers,
Sisters Carrie S. Thomas and Rebecca
Nibley of the General Board, Apostle
Francis M. Lyman, President A. A. Hinck-
ley and counselors of the stake presiden-
cy, and also a number of bishops.
	After the opening exercises, Prest. I. E.
Robison made a few opening remarks.
She was much pleased to have an Apostle
in attendance, also the sisters from the
General Board. Said the Deseret Relief
Society hall, which had just been com-
pleted, would be dedicated during this
meeting.
	The following presidents: Amelia A.
Cahoon of Deseret, Melissa Olsen of Fill
more, Naomi Theobald of Hinckley, Ma-
thilda Overson of Leamington—each re-
ported her respective society in good con-
dition; they were caring for sick and poor,
storing grain, and working for the ad-
vancement of the good cause.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas was pleased to
see the brethren present, as it gave
strength when speaking. It is a marvel
how the sisters accomplish so much in
building halls and granaries, caring for the
sick and needy, and many other things.
The Nurse Class is accomplishing much
good, and also the mother’s work. It
is better to study the child than the
book. “Our religion is a practical, every
day religion, and if we cannot study all
the books, may God help us to care for
the babies intelligently.”
	Sister Nibley spoke of her early expe-
rience in the work; advised the young
mothers to teach their children to pray,
also to pay tithing, and keep the Word of
Wisdom,that they may gain the blessings
of the Lord; for there is nothing worth
living for outside of the gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	The general and stake officers of the
Relief Society were then snstained unani-
mously.

[Column 2]
	Apostle F. M. Lyman spoke at length
on the duties of sisters in the Relief So-
ciety, also on tithing, prayer, the Word of
Wisdom, and the necessity of mothers
setting good examples before their chil-
dren; related some of his experiences in
early life, and said every sister in the
Church should belong to the Relief Soci-
ety and attend as much as possible.
	After singing “O, say what is truth,”
etc., the dedicatory prayer and benedic-
tion were pronounced by Apostle Lyman.
	Conference continued in an  evening
session, President Isabella E. Robison pre-
siding. Singing and prayer.
	Sisters Ada Wood of Holden, Lovell of
Oak City, Emily Thompson of Scipio,
and Elmira Styler of Oasis, each reported
her Society in good condition, working
in the cause, helping the needy and car-
ing for the sick.
	Prest. I. E. Robison said the Relief
Society of Millard stake had paid annual
dues; each Society should hold monthly
board meetings; gave some instructions
about making reports and keeping correct
records.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley said the presi-
dent’s reports today had been very grati-
fying to her; it showed that the sisters
were alive to their calling; thought there
had been much good accomplished by send-
ing missionaries from the General Board;
gave some of her experience in the mis-
sionary work; spoke of the Nurse Class as
a good thing for our girls, as it gave them
great opportunities for helping others.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas referred to
the History being issued by the Relief
Society, and explained why it had not
been published. We have had good in-
structions, are we going to profit by it?
If we do not, inspiration is no good to us.
Endorsed the remarks of Apostle Lyman
this afternoon, especially on the Word of
Wisdom—the Lord knows what is good
for his children.
	Prest. Robison made a few closing re-
marks; benediction by Amelia A. Cahoon.
		MARINDA BENNETT, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Laura E. Richards addressed the
Massachusetts Library Club at its meet-
ing in Melrose recently, on the best read-
ing for children. She recommended a
liberal diet of poetry, from Chaucer to
Kipling travels, historical works, Shakes-
pere, the Bible, Pilgrim’s Progress, and
plenty of fairy tales like those of Grimm
and Hans Andersen, “For my part,”
said Mrs. Richards, “I should not want to
have anything to do with a child nor a
grown-up who does not like fairy tales.”
She held that books describing noble
deeds were especially good for children,
and urged librarians to burn up books
that give gruesome and unnatural views
of life.


HIS MESSAGE.
Tossing in rapture each crest on the wave,
	Lashing the shore with its spray;
Ever the deep, deep song of the sea,
	Sad, solemn and sweet alway.
Bursting in song, thrilling each heart,
	Filling green woodland and glen;
Comes His glad message of love,
	“Peace on earth, good will to men:”
					LOUISE COULSON.
Salt Lake City, Utah.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OLD FRIENDS AND COMRADES.
Written for Miss Kate Wells’ Valentine party for
		her Aunties, February 14, 1907.
We have been friends together thro’ all the chang-
	ing years
Of travel and of trials, with hardships, doubts, and
	fears,
Since first we met each other in those eventful
	days,
In fair “Nauvoo, the Beautiful,” or on the desert
	ways.
There’s something glorious in life, whatever may
	befall,
And we have been most loyal to the Gospel, thro’
	it all,
Because the faith we cherish our staff and stay has
	been,
And we trust that each of us immortal life may
	win.
But there are faces that we miss of those we lov’d
	so well,
So many that their names, too numerous are to
	tell;
They were our dear companions, our comrades,
	heart and hand,
In festive scenes and gatherings, we were a happy
	band.
With them we danc’d and feasted, when we were
	young and bright;
And we comforted each other, when sorrow left its
	blight;
In trouble, or in sadness, or in burdens hard to
	bear
We each were ever willing, to take another’s
	share.
We recall each absent one, and think them o’er
	and o’er;
Their voices seem to greet us from off that distant
	shore,
The river flows between us, but we see the shining
	sand,
And we know beyond that river, there lies the
	happy land.
We remember Mother Whitney, whose presence
	was so dear,
She sung the songs of Zion in a language sweet
	and clear—
That the angels sung in Eden, when the earth
	was new and fair,
Before the great transgression, that brought death,
	and sin and care.
And beloved Aunt Eliza a Priestess of the time;
Whose words like precious jewels were full of truth
	sublime;
Aunt Zina with a healing balm for ev’ry wounded
	heart,
Vilate with soul magnanimous rich blessings to
	impart.
And Sarah M. Louisa, Wells, and dear Aunt Mar-
	garet,
And Sister Howard’s gladsome face we never can
	forget;
And Mary Isabella whose wisdom was our pride,
And dear Elmina Taylor, and many more beside.
Beloved friends who’ve gone to join the great im-
	mortal throng;
Who stand before the pearly gates, and sing the
	wondrous song
Of the redeemed and glorified. who worship at the
		feet,
Of Him who bore the cross for all, yea finished
	and complete.
And we have made celestial laws our covenant
	and choice,
And when we pass beyond the vail, we trust we
	may rejoice
With those whose names we love to hear, and
	who’ve gone on before;
And may our bark sail smooth to land when we
	are wafter o’er.	
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


Queen Wilhelmina of Holland knows
how to milk a cow and to make butter.
She has a model dairy, of which she is
very fond.


A LIKENESS.
Foxes have homes and each bird has a nest,
But the Son of God nowhere found safe place to
	rest,
From prison and judgment, to slaughter, was led,
And bravely met death, as old prophets had said.

But His cruel death did not satisfy hate,
And Saint Stephen and James met like merciless
	fate,
And Apostles of Jesus from Jerusalem fled,
And o’er all the wide earth, thus Christ’s gospel
	was spread.

So this Latter-day Prophet found no where to rest,
Was from place to place driven on mother earth’s
	breast,
From prison, without trial, to slaughter was led,
And bravely met death, as old prophets had said.

And the innocent blood shed that day for his cause
Drew his people together by the natural laws
Of enduring sympathy, brothers indeed
In their common sufferings, in their common need.

But their dead leader’s mantle fell on brave shoul-
	ders strong,
And westward he led them, singing ever this
	song
“O God of our fathers! Give to us oh give,
A good land of promise, where in peace we may
	live!”

So they prayed, toiled and marched, ’till as on,
	on, they pressed,
Reached they Galilee, Jordan and the Dead sea’s
	cold breast.
There they builded a temple, through forty long
	years,
And in blessings of plenty, forgot their past tears.

And thus persecution spread their faith in the west
And from there to all lands has the Church sent
	its best,
As the death of Jerusalem’s martyr gave birth
To the zeal of Christ’s teachers all over the earth.

Though temptation invite and assail day by day
From the good “Words of Wisdom” may they
	never more stray.
The whole world is watching to see how they live,
And a goodly example to the world they may give.

If this faith is of God, it will stand to the last,
If brewed in men’s brains, ’twould fall sure and
	fall fast,
By their fruits! By their fruits, shall their works
	all be known!
Let them keep up the record their past years have
	shown.
				ALICE PEET BISHOP.
			(An unprejudiced Gentile student of
				Mormon history.)
673 Seventh st., City.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mrs. Ida H. Harper has completed the
third volume of the “Life and Works of
Susan B. Anthony.” She expects that
it will be out by February, Miss Anthony’s
birth month.
	Delegate Taylor of Kalamazoo has in-
troduced in the Michigan Constitutonal
Convention a proposal to allow women
taxpayers to vote on all measures which
include the expenditure of the public
funds.
	In Holland, a royal decree emanating
from Minister Kraus has abolished the
rule promulgated three years ago which
forbade women employed in the postal
and telegraph offices to marry.
	Mrs. Kenward, who has just celebrated
her 88th birthday, has been postmistress
for 61 years at the quaint old postoffice
at Wivelsfield, near Hayward’s Heath,
England. In addition to the work of the
office Mrs. Kenward attends to her own
household duties, and is a great reader of
the newspapers.


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society or others who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		MALAD STAKE.
	The Malad Stake Relief Society Con-
ference was held at Riverside, Box Elder
county. Utah, Thursday, October 31, 1907,
President Julia A. Richards presiding.
Sister Emily S. Richards of the General
Board was present, also the Malad stake
presidency, President M. H. Welling,
Counselors Wm. Gibbs and Moroni Ward,
and all the sisters of the stake board of
Malad, several bishops, and representatives
from all the wards.
	After the opening exercises, five wards
were represented, and reported in each
instance as being in good working order,
fully organized and trying to follow out
the instructions given.
	Sister Emily S. Richards spoke earnest-
ly on the storing of grain, and said that
Sisters Smith and Wells each sent love
and greeting to the sisters of the Malad
stake. She advised the young ladies to
join the Relief Society and assist in mak-
ing the mother’s work a success. Gave
instructions concerning the laying out
and dressing of the dead. Spoke on the
necessity of guarding our tongues against
speaking evil of one another. Prest. M.
H. Welling followed with remarks along
the same lines.
	After singing and benediction, confer-
ence adjourned u ntil 2 p.
	Conference reassembled at 2 o’clock p.
m. Opening exercises as usual. Reports
from three wards were given, each in
good working order and interested in the
work.
	Prest. Julia A. Richards reported the
stake throughout as the officers found it
in traveling and holding meetings.
	The speakers were Sister Emily S.
Richards, Prest. M. H. Welling, Counsel-
or W. Gibbs and Bishop M. J. Richards,
the remarks being along the same line
as during the morning, that of speaking
evil of each other being foremost.
	Sister Emily S. Richards explained the
relationship existing between the Nation-
al Council of Women and the Relief So-
ciety as an organization.
	Treas. Ella S. Capener recited a poem
entitled “Woman,” selected from the
EXPONENT.
	The Spirit of the Lord was in our midst
and each one present felt that they had
indeed had a spiritual feast.
	Meeting closed by singing “Glory to
God on high.” Benediction by Sister
Elizabeth A. Jones.
				JOSIE K. HALES,
						Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
s[-]cond class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,	-	-	DECEMBER, 1907


[Column 1]
THE PROPHET JOSEPH’S BIRTHDAY.

Plucked fresh from an immortal paradise,
	Transplanted in a new and uncongenial clime,
To fulfill laws which nature’s works comprise;
	A purpose to achieve, coincident with time.

	The life of the Prophet Joseph from his
birth in the vale of the Green Mountains
to his tragic martyrdom is like a sublime
and heroic poem, and some day in the
future, one or more of our poets, young
or old, will give it with all the wondrous,
graceful and majestic unfolding from the
hearth where he was born, to the prison
from where his life was yielded up as a
sacrifice for his people, along with his
noble brother Hyrum, who was nearest
to him of all his kindred in life and in
death. The bond between these brothers
was of the most sacred character, uniting
these two great-hearted, magnanimous
men there must have been an invisible
altar of trust and consecration.
	It is most fitting that the Latter-day
Saints should celebrate the birth of the
greatest prophet since the days of the
Savior, and coming so nearly together
seems a strange coincidence. The beau-
tiful story of the birth of Joseph Smith is
most poetical, and it is gratifying to all
who love and revere his memory to know
that his birthplace has been so harmoni-
ously brought into touch with the origi-
nal arrangement of the old home. It
will undoubtedly be in the future, an ob-
ject lesson of great significance to the
people of our faith, and also to the unbe-
lieving and the inquiring stranger and
tourist. This simple fact of renovating
and beautifying the old home may be
more helpful than an epic poem, but both
are not too much to carry the message of
life and salvation to the world at large,
the. message delivered to Joseph Smith
when only a lad in his early boyhood.
	We have reason to be grateful for all
that has been done to perpetuate his
name, his great work and to show honor
to those who were true and loyal to him.
and to the Master’s work he came to do.
A  marvelous work and a wonder in the
midst of the earth in this dispensation of
the fulness of times. Every effort will be
made to make the birthplace of the
prophet attractive and to preserve at the
same time all the old landmarks.
	In reviewing the writings of men associ-
ated with the Prophet Joseph and in con-
versing with the few staunch men of his
time now living, it is difficult to select from

[Column 2]
among all one reads, or is told, incidents
that will appeal to those who only know
through history so little of his actual
heroic and prophetic character, and in-
deed it is difficult for those who knew
him personally, to talk of him in such
a way as to give reality to his nobility of
person and the grandeur of his charac-
teristics and aspirations.
	It is not possible to put on paper the
beauty of some special phases and say-
ings of the Prophet Joseph to attempt it is
to make one feel the insignificance of the
written account compared to the sub-
limity of the actual scenes as portrayed in
life.
	It has been said frequently of late that
the Prophet predicted the gathering of
this people to the Rocky Mountains.
Elder Anson Call tells most graphically
one of these prophetic visions.
	At a meeting of Freemasons in the
town of Montrose, Iowa, on the west side
of the Missirsippi, Joseph Smith while
conversing with his brother uttered the
remarkable prophecy that the Saints
would be driven to the Rocky Mountains.
Elder Anson Call was present and gives a
detailed account.
	“On the 14th of July, 1843, the Prophet
Joseph with quite a number of his breth-
ren crossed the Mississippi river to the
town of Montrose, to be present at the in-
stallment of the Masonic Lodge of the
‘Rising Sun.’ A block school house had
been prepared for the occasion with a
shade in front under which was a barrel
of ice water. Judge George Adams was
the highest Masonic authority in the State
of Illinois and had been sent there to or-
ganize this lodge. The Judge, Hyrum
Smith and J. C. Bennett being high Ma-
sons went into the house to perform some
ceremonies which the others were not
entitled to witness, they, including Joseph
Smith, remained under the bowery,
Joseph as he was tasting the cold water,
warned the brethren not to be too free
with it.
	“With a tumbler still in his hand he
prophesied that the Saints would yet go
to the Rocky Mountains. Brother Call
says, “I had before seen him in vision,
and now saw while he was talking, his
countenance change to white not the
deadly white of a bloodless face, but a
living, brilliant white. He seemed ab-
sorbed in gazing at something at a great
distance,” and said “I am gazing upon
the valleys of the mountains.” This
Brother Call says was followed by a vivid
description of the scenery of these moun-
tains as I have since become acquainted
with it.
	“Pointing to Shadrack Roundy and
others he said: “There are seme men
here, who shall do a great work in that
land.” Pointing to me he said, “There
is Anson, he shall go and shall assist in
building cities from one end of the coun-
try to the other; and you, rather extend-
ing the idea to all those he had spoken
of shall perform as great a work as has
been done by man, so that the nations of
the earth shall be astonished, and many
of them will be gathered in that land and
assist in building cities and temples, and
Israel shall be made to rejoice.”
	The writer says, “It is impossible to
represent in words this scene, which is
still vivid in my mind of the grandeur of
Joseph’s appearance, the beautiful de-
scriptions of this land, and his wonderful

[Column 3]
pathetic utterances, as they emanated
from the glorious inspiration which over-
shadowed him.” There was a force and
power in his exclamations of which the
following is but a faint echo:
	“Oh the beauties of these snow-capped
mountains! the, soul refreshing streams
that are running down through these
mountain gorges! Then gazing in another
direction as if there was a change of
locality: “Oh the scenes that this people,
will pass through! The dead that will lie
between here and there.” Then turning
as if the scene changed again, “Oh the
apostacy that will take place before my
brethren reach that land!”
	Elder Call continues: “Although I felt
that Joseph was wrapt in vision, and that
his voice was the voice of God, little did
realize the vast significance of those pro-
phetic declarations compared with what
do now, with the experience of forty-
five years, that has intervened since they
were uttered. As he concluded the door
of the house opened and we entered the
building to transact the business for which
we had gathered.”
	The writer herself recalls, Mother Whit-
ney’s vivid picture of the appearance and
manner, and beauty of the countenance
of the Prophet Joseph when dictating to
his scribe in an upper chamber of her
house in Kirtland. But the things that
are written and the things that are told
fall far short of the reality. It is
good that the Spirit of God has made
manifest to many who have not seep the
Prophet the truth of his divine mission
here upon the earth.


IN MEMORIAM.
	PRISCILLA SMITH TAYLOR.
Come to the bridal chamber, Death!
Come to “the mother when she feels
For the first time, her first-born’s breath,”
	It seems only yesterday, as it were,
that we published the marriage of the
young woman whose demise we now
feel it a duty to record. Her married
life was so brief, yet so sweet, one
cannot but feel that in such a short space
of time, one may experience the heights
and depths of human joy and sorrow.
	Sister Priscilla Smith Taylor was a
happy bride on October 25th of last year
(1906), and on November 3rd of this
present year (1907) she passed away to
the “better land,” leaving an infant
daughter six weeks old; her husband,
Elder George S. Taylor, and her widowed
mother, Sister Susan E. Smith, and others
of her family were almost inconsolable
at the loss of one so precious and so
lovable, and whose circumstances gave
promise of so much happiness, These
losses to those who remain seem irrepar-
able, and only time can in part assuage that
poignant grief; but to those who have an
implicit faith in the hope of a resurrec-
tion there is always a consolation: and
the spirit of the Gospel sheds its rays up-
on the heart, of all who bow in meek sub-
mission to the dispensations of divine
Providence.
“And this we call a loss! O, selfish sorrow
	Of selfish hearts! O, we of little faith!
Let us look round some argument to borrow,
Why we in patience should await the morrow
	That surely must succeed this night of death.


[Column 1]
‘Aye, look upon this dreary, desert path,
	The thorns and thistles wheresoe’er we turn,
What trials, and what tears, what wrongs and
		wrath,
What struggles, and what strife the journey
		hath!
	She has escaped from these, and lo! we
		mourn.”
	Sister Priscilla Smith was a most estim-
able young woman, bright and attractive;
a favorite with her young companions at
school and wherever she was known,
She was active in organization work in
the Sunday School and was for years a
teacher in the Junior Theological class,
and also for a number of years president
of the Primary Association of the 17th
ward. She was actively identified with
the Y. L. M. I. A., and a teacher in one
of the departments of that Association.
The educational training and discipline
of the work of these various organizations
prepared her for the higher work and the
broader sphere of the Relief Society, as a
missionary of the General Society among
the several stakes of Zion. For a num-
ber of years and up to the time of her
marriage she had been very efficient in
her duties and in traveling and speaking;
North, south, east and west she traveled
quite extensively in the several stakes of
Zion, visited Mexico, Arizona, California,
Idaho, Wyoming, Colorado, and in near-
ly every stake in Utah. Few women as
young have taken hold of this work in
earnest and been as diligent and faithful
and tactful as Sister Priscilla was. She
will be sincerely mourned by the mem-
bers of the Board; we shall miss her
presence in our meetings, where she has
been a regular attendant. She was al-
ways cheerful and ready to respond to
any call made upon her if it was possi-
ble. She was an unusually interesting
speaker on subjects pertaining to the
work of the Society, along all the many
lines embraced in this great movement
for woman’s advancement. Sister Pris-
cilla was genuine, she could always be
depended upon, and she possessed all the
excellent traits of character that make a
womanly woman and a true and faithful
Saint.
“The loved and lost! Why do we call them lost?
	Because we miss them from our onward road;
God’s unseen angel o’er our pathway crossed,
Looked on us all, and loving them the most,
	Straightway relieved them from life’s weary
		load.
“They are not lost—they are within the door
	That shut out loss, and every hurtful thing;
With angels bright, and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer’s presence evermore,
	And God Himself their Lord, and Judge and
		King.”
	Priscilla Smith was educated here in
Utah in the very best schools, and at-
tended some years the University of
Utah; being naturally gifted along intel-
lectual lines of study she took special
work in the Uuiversity, and later on, dur-
ing the last few years, took a special
course of study in the Agricultural College
at Logan.
	She had a wide circle of young friends
and was greatly apprectated by them.
She was a valued member of the Sun-
shine Club and other social circles. Add-
ed to the education of schools and univer-
sity studies, Miss Smith took a trip
abroad in 1903, in company with Miss
Rachel Edwards (a graduate of the Utah
University. and for many years a teacher
of marked ability in our public schools).

[Column 2]
They visited the largest and most cele-
brated cities in England and France,
taking in the art galleries, cathedrals
and places of historic interest, and en-
joyed to the utmost the brief time they
were able to spend in sight-seeing.
	Sister Priscilla was the daughter of
President George A. Smith and Susan E.
West Smith, and was born June 11, 1869,
in the old historic house known then and
now, as the Historian’s Office, east on
South Temple Street in this city, the
home of the family of President George
A. Smith for many years. It was there
she grew to womanhood,
	Miss Smith’s marriage to Elder George
S. Taylor, of Provo, was solemnized in
the Salt Lake Temple on Thursday, Oc-
tober 25, 1906, her brother, Apostle John
Henry Smith, performed the ceremony.
A reception was held in the evening at
the residence of her sister and brother-
in-law, Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Williams.
The reception was a delightful occasion,
attended by numerous relatives and
friends. Sincere congratulations and
many beautiful gifts of love and friend-
ship were tendered the happy couple,
and there was seemingly every prospect
of a long and happy life before them.
But alas! we know not what from day to
day may transpire. One short year of
wedded happiness and the home is made
desolate by the departure of the young
wife and mother. 
“Though lost to sight, to memory dear
	Thou ever wilt remain.”
	Sister Taylor’s babe was born Septem-
ber 19, 1907, and she never really rallied,
though at times great hopes were enter-
tained of her recovery. She passed peace-
fully away after months of pain and suf-
fering. Her husband and mother were
constantly with her, and her sisters and
other relatives near and dear were exer-
cising their faith, and rendering every as-
sistance possible under the cirsumstances.
Her sweet babe was then a little more
than six weeks old.
	The funeral services were held in the
Fifth ward chapel of Provo on Wednes-
day, November 6, 1907, Bishop Albert
Manwaring presiding, and excellent music
was furnished by the ward choir. The
speakers were President David John,
Patriarch John Smith, Apostle Reed
Smoot and President F. M. Lyman, who
offered sweet consolation to the bereaved.
There were very many floral offerings,
and the pure white casket that held the
remains was literally embowered in these
beautiful flowers from loving relatives
and friends. Sister Taylor was buried in
the Provo cemetery, near other members
of her husband’s family. The grave was
dedicated by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	A special car conveyed about sixty rel-
atives and friends from Salt Lake City
to attend the funeral services.
	“Farewell! The lonely word that parts
		Binds two in silence ever fast;
	Each throbs to each, these sundered hearts
		One in the sacred past.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	HOLLY AND EASTER LILIES.
	It is good to be able to give expression
to the finest feelings and the most deli-
cate emotions of one’s soul in language

[Column 2]
that is befitting the purest sentiment of
sorrow for one beloved, who has gone
forever from our vision in this mortal life.
It is rare indeed that even a poet can find
words, that will convey in rhythmical
measure the soulful tenderness, that will
touch the hearts of those, who also have
suffered the loss of the nearest and dear-
est companion or friend.
	In that beautiful book recently revised
and republished by Alfred Lambourne.
entitled “Holly And Easter Lilies,” we
find the pathetic word-picture in lines so
exquisitely touching to the human heart
that they thrill every fibre of one’s being
like sweet music of the harp when the
strings are touched gently by graceful
fingers.
	It is gratifying to realize there are liv-
ing poets, who have the divine fire burn-
ing in their souls, that can burst forth in-
to song when the heart is bruised and
bleeding. Love is immortal and let us re-
joice there are those, who can express its
deepest emotions in words for the multi-
tude, who are here today, and for the
generations of men and women yet to be
born, and pass through life’s experiences.
	We commend to all who love poetry,
and to all who believe in love, the Memo-
rial Edition of “Holly And Easter Lilies,”
and we have no hesitation in saying it is
one of the most touching tributes of ten-
der love and pure sentiment,—one could
pay to the wife of his bosom. Better by
far than the most costly monument of
cold marble; for the poem will live in
many hearts will soothe undoubtedly
many who are grief-stricken, and one can
imagine is a part of the soul and life of
the man, who poured forth in such elo-
quent language, the burden of his sadness
for the lost companion of his youth, the
mother of his children.
	The poem as previously published was
one Mrs. Lambourne loved best, her fav-
orite of all her husband has written, and
he has consecrated it to her memory, as
one would dedicate a marble monument
or fountain; and aside from the soul-thril-
ling melody of the words the publication
of this little volume has cost its author in
money value, as much as a marble column
reared to her memory. It is like sacrilege
to allude to money value here, but in this
commercial age, it is almost imperative.
	The portrait of Mrs. Lambourne in the
book gives one little idea of the true
womanly wealth of love and sympathy,
she poured out lavishly upon her hus-
band, when he was toiling with pen or
brush, and his whole soul wrought upon
to give the true artistic tonches to his
work.
	The opening verse “To Wilhelmina
Marie” is exquisite in its thoughtful ten-
derness, but the closing lines carry in the
word “Forever” that which should be to
the writer a talisman of all he should
strive to gain for conjugal immortality of
hope and reunion Hereafter.
	The closing short poem “Rest” after
the year of sorrow had passed is full of
yearning and of grief unspoken, but the
writer hopes for all such sensitive souls,
the balm time carries on his wings in his
onward never-ending flight, may bring its
healing virtues, and that from the sorrow-
crushed spirit may come forth greater
courage and strength to comfort others,
who suffer, and it is well for all to re-
member; they are most triumphant who
are most tested.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CHRISTMAS AGAIN.
	Around the Christmas tree,
	Join hands in charity
And hail with joy and praise whatever lights
			our way.
	And so Christmas has come again with
its hurly-burly and noise, and overflow of
playthings and toys for the little girls and
boys—Santa Claus himself to distribute
their gifts and fill the stockings, little and
big by the chimney piece and on chairs
and tables and the Xmas trees, great and
small, in parlor or bedroom or hall, any-
where that there is room enough. O the
delight of the children, what joy and
pleasure it brings to the home, even
though some of the elder ones are full
of cares and anxieties or sorrows, yet the
children’s mirth and playfulness, songs
and laughter cannot but bring rays of sun-
shine into the saddened hearts, and there-
fore it is good to have the Christmas
time, whether the snow falls, or the wind
blows, or whatever troubles assail us from
without, or within no matter.
	Xmas comes to all, rich and poor, high
and low, and it is as welcome in the
humble cottage, as in the lordly mansion.
	It may be that all do not realize its true
meaning, or give heed to the admonitions
that might be of real benefit to them, but
it always brings thoughts and reflections
naturally; there are few people in the
world who are not touched with kindli-
ness in some degree at Christmas, and as
the years roll on the sentiment, the feel-
ing that the day inspires does not die out,
indeed, one might say Christmas “wears
well,” we never tire of it, especially the
children and those who enter into the in-
nocent spirit, and the pastimes of the lit-
tle folks; the Savior whose birth we cele-
brate loved little children, and gave the
pattern for all to follow, when He said to
His disciples, “Except ye become as lit-
tle children ye shall not enter into the
kingdom of heaven.”
	It is good sometimes to banish care
and if possible forget, or lay aside the
everyday worries, annoyances and per-
plexities that trammel us and make us
irritable, and hinder, whole-hearted en-
joyment; but if only one could be joyous
and care-free for the sake of the children it
would be better for one’s own health as
well as happiness; and in the years to
come the children grown to man and
womanhood will recall with greater pleas-
ure how father and mother and the older
members of the family entered into the
Christmas spirit with them, when they
were of a young and tender age; and they
will not only follow the example set for
them but will recount to their flock of
little ones the childish sports and games,
and fairy tales of their own happy child-
hood, and thus perpetuate the family
history on its social side in a way to make
a lasting impression. Nothing is more
true on this subject or expresses the idea
we desire to convey than the singing in
the home of the songs and hymns of the
times, and of the past, Mrs. Heman’s
exquisite poem, “The Songs of Our
Fathers,” reiterates the thought; we quote
here a verse or two—
	The songs their souls rejoiced to hear,
		When harps were in the hall,
	And each proud note made lance and spear
		Thrill on the banner'd wall.
	The songs that through our valleys green,
		Sent on from age to age.
	Like his own river’s voice have been
		The peasant’s heritage,

[Column 2]
	So let it be—a light they shed
		O’er each old fount and grove;
	A memory of the gentle dead,
		A lingering spell of love.
	Murmuring the names of mighty men,
		They bid our streams roll on
	And link high thoughts to every glen
		Where valiant deeds were done.
	So shall each unforgotten word
		When far those loved ones roam,
	Call back the hearts which once it stired
		To childhood’s holy home.
	Sing to your sons those melodies,
		The songs your father’s loved.
	The writer does not only wish for the
old songs, but for the old memories to be
handed down, remembrances of the genial
days of life that when the little ones now
clustering round the Christmas fireside,
or the Christmas tree, or playing at the
father’s knee are grown they may carry
into the years to come that beautiful home
picture of Christmas or holiday times in
the early home and rehearse such themes
to the children of that later time.
	Banish care and gloom for a day, or a
few hours (whatever the cause) for the
sake of the children. The English people
have many simple pastimes and cus-
toms that have been continued down the
ages almost, and they are very impressive,
although some writers tell us that now in
England, Christmas is not what it once
was. “The world has become more
worldly, more of dissipation and less of
enjoyment. The traditionary customs of
golden-hearted antiquity, its feudal hos-
pitality and lordly wassailings have passed
away with the baronial castles and state-
ly manor-houses in which they were cele-
brated. They comported with the shadowy
hall, the great oaken gallery, and the tap-
estried parlor, but are unfitted to the
light, showy saloons and gay drawing-
rooms of the modern villa.”
	Yet, now among the peasantry many of
the pretty customs are still kept up, ever-
greens distributed from house to house,
the sound of the waits on the midnight
air, however rude the minstrelsy may
be, awakens sentiment and breaks the
midnight watches, and reminds one that
the season of festivity and of peace and
of good will to all mankind has returned,
and that mutual greetings of relatives and
friends is being proceeded with even
though we have radiators instead of the
great open fire, and Teddy Bears in the
place of rag-dolls or real ones, but let us
hope and believe, and perpetuate if possi-
ble, the gathering of kindred and friends
and the open hearted hospitality of “ye
olden time.’’
	But at family holiday dinners or ban-
quets, there is usually inadvertently much
historic matter in the conversation that
one may glean for his own benefit or
future use, though there may prevail an
innocent hilarity and a spirit of revelry,
mingled with the songs and jests and
superstitious legends.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
		SEVIER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Se-
vier Stake convened in Richfield Relief
Society Hall at ten a. m. June 22, 1907.
Stake President Christina W. Sorensen
presiding.
	Sisters Julina L. Smith and Julia P. M.

[Column 2]
Farnsworth, from the General Board, who
were visiting our stake, were present.
	After opening exercises President C.
Sorensen welcomed the visiting sisters
and all present.
	President Mary E. Magleby read an ad-
dress from President B. W. Smith, to
officers of the Relief Society after which
President C. Sorensen said, she was
pleased to meet in this new Relief So-
ciety Hall, it is a beautiful building. Re-
ported the labors of the Stake Board,
said we are united, we feel our weakness,
but with the blessings of the Lord we try
to do our duty. We visit each ward once
a year, have twenty branches in the
stake, find the sisters united and energet-
ic, and ready to comply with instructions
given. She spoke of the stake business
meetings, where we get reports, we have
no helps, but expect presidents and coun-
selors of the different branches to be our
helps. Also of Missionary Sisters visiting
each others Society and bringing in re-
ports of improvement to all, those who
are visiting and those who are visited.
We feel highly honored, to have Sisters
Julina L. Smith and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth from the General Board with us
today.
	President Minnie Nebeker of the first
ward Richfield spoke of the new building
we are permitted to meet in today, it is
not quite finished so we cannot dedicate
it today as anticipated. About a year ago
we had some over $700 from selling build-
ing of former Relief Society. On last
Thanksgiving Day each sister donated $1.
We met with the Bishopric, counseled
with them, we asked the brethren in the
ward how much they loved their wives
and in this way we raised between $500
and $600. Bishop Heber Christensen and
William Ogden and many others assisted
materially. We have made our hall large
as we found the need of a house to
meet in socially and have parties, and en-
courage the young people to meet with
us and enjoy the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister Nebeker also gave a Lecture,
“Sphere of Woman”, made many beauti-
ful remarks, a good woman ever being
dispenser of love and joy in every home,
and using a good influence where ever
she may be.
	Vocal Solo by Sister Anna Orrock and
company.
	President Henrietta Wright, Richfield,
2nd ward, spoke of holding meeting each
Monday at 3 p. m. Sisters feel blessed
in visits of teachers, also spoke of the Re-
lief Society house, and congratulated Sis-
ters of the 1st ward, to have such a nice
place to meet in, and enjoy young peo-
ple socially.
	Sister Julina L. Smith felt more than
pleased to meet with the sisters, said “I
can feel the Spirit, that you are united,
it is the nicest Relief Society Building I
have seen. Every one has donated free-
ly. This Society is not only for older
sisters, but young mothers should be cal-
led to visit with the sisters who are older.
Said President B. W. Smith sent her love
to all. Gave some of her experiences in
taking care of old ladies; she loved to
visit with the sisters, almost every sister
can bear her testimony.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth spoke of
the new hall, and of the other two halls
in Richfield, also of the lecture given by
President Minnie Nebeker, she said our
husbands are the best husbands in the


[Column 1]
world. Our mission is to look after the
poor and the sick, encourage those who
are downhearted, we should not be gos-
sipers; encouraged wives and mothers to
live worthy lives. I feel we have a warm
welcome here, I feel you are united.
	Stake President Wm. Seegmiller. “I
enjoy very much in meeting with you, in
this new building, feel the Spirit of God
is in our midst, great credit is due, to
those who had the matter in hand. Be
wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
It is a grand thing to meet people, who
have the same object in view; spoke in
praise of the labors and efforts of the sis-
ters, hope you will be interested, and
every labor you do may stimulate to still
greater labors. What a wonderful mis-
sion is ours; may God bless us in all our
labors.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. after
singing and prayer.
	Conference continued at 2 p. m. Pre-
sident C. Sorensen presiding.
	After singing, prayer and other exer-
cises General and Stake Officers of the
Relief Society were unanimously sustain-
ed.
	President C. Ogelvie, Richfield, 3rd ward,
reported and then Sister Farnsworth
spoke of the good spirit in our midst, and
the building fund, for “Womans Building”
to be erected in near future, the brethren
had agreed to take the care of the build-
ing upon themselves. Encouraged the
stake to send more sisters to learn the
nurse course. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp to be
teacher this year. Many more nurses are
needed in our outlying stakes, spoke of
Sister Empy’s labors in this line, also of
saving grain. The Relief Society gave
20 tons of flour, to famine stricken Chinese
this summer, first car load of clothing,
etc., sent to San Francisco after earth-
quake and fire, was sent from the four
stakes of Salt Lake City. Encourage our
sons, to get acquainted with the Relief
Society meetings, it will be of great be-
nefit to them, when in the mission field.
We should be a light to the world, teach
our children to live moral lives.
	Sister Julina L. Smith said, almost
every point has been touched. We should
send our girls to Latter-day Saints’ homes,
when sending them to Salt Lake City to
work, gave some of her experiences with
girls; said my children always let me
know, when they come home at night.
We cannot fill a better mission than to
look after our children, and not send
them away or turn them out in the street,
begin when they are little, raise our girls
to make good mothers. Let our children
attend meetings, stay at home ourselves
if need be. The Relief Society is at the
head of Mutual and Primary Associations.
We feel the influence of Latter-day Saints
in our midst. We can give a good report
of your stake.
	Instrumental Music by Sister Josie
Christensen.
	Brother William Ogden said, he had
been acquainted with the labors of the
Society in building this hall, he had the
privilege of writing out the checks.
	President Minnie Nebeker and associ-
ates need praise for accomplishing this
task.
	Counselor Ellen Theuson, with feelings
of joy, we are trying to do our duty, felt
blessed to be a member of the Relief So-
ciety. Don’t let us neglect our duties,

[Column 2]
teach our children to pay tithing, in time
of trouble they will remember the teach-
ings of their mothers, let us be humble
and prayerful, we will all be tried.
	Sister Caroline Bohman, Treasurer,
also paid tribute to the labor of the sis-
ters, said, the blessings, of the Lord are
with us, in our efforts to do our duty. We
are fed by the Spirit of the Lord in our
meetings.
	President C. Sorensen always enjoyed
Relief Society meetings, rejoiced in the
work; was thankful to those who enter-
tained us, also to the singers. Let us
continue in good works. God bless the
sisters visiting with us that they may re-
turn in safety.
	An officers meeting will be held after
this meeting.
	Sister Julina Smith also thanked the
singers.
	After the benediction Conference ad-
journed for three months.
			MARY M. SWINDLE,
						Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
“WHY A WOMAN SHOULD DESIRE TO
		BE A MORMON.”

	(Written by special request and read at
Womens’ Clubs in New York.)
	“Pure religion as taught by Jesus Christ
is a life, a growth, a divine spirit within,
coming out in love and sympathy and
helpfulness to our fellow-men.”
	I realize that my subject is a most deli-
cate one to write upon, knowing as I do,
how “Mormonism,” so-called, is looked
upon by those who are unacquainted with
the people called “Mormons.” What-
ever I may say must be from my point of
view, and will assuredly be in accordance
with facts, largely of my own personal
knowledge, and wholly on the woman’s
side of the question, according to the title
given me.
	What the world terms “Mormonism,”
we call the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which
our Savior says is “the power of God un-
to salvation,” etc. We believe the ever-
lasting Gospel has been restored to the
earth in this last dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. Rev. 14: 6 reads, “And I
saw another angel fly in the midst of
heaven, having the eyerlasting Gospel to
preach unto them that dwell on the earth,
and to every nation, and kindred, and
tongue, and people.,’ It is the belief and
firm conviction of the Latter-day Saints
that the angel came, that the Gospel was
restored to the earth, that Joseph Smith
was commissioned from heaven to declare
unto the children of men the restoration
of all things that had been before time,
that he was ordained by Peter, James
and John to the same priesthood they
held, and that he ordained his followers
in like manner.
	Since that time, notwithstanding all the
drivings, mobbings and persecutions, the
Elders of the Church have gone forth,
preaching the Gospel and baptizing those
who became converted, until the sound
thereof has reached many lands and
climes, kindreds, tongues, and peoples.
	Our Articles of Faith are:
	1. We believe in God, the Eternal
Father, and in His Son, Jesus Christ, and
in the Holy Ghost.
	2. We believe that men will be pun-

[Column 2]
ished for their own sins, and not for
Adam’s transgression.
	3. We believe that through the atone-
ment of Christ, all mankind may be saved
by obedience to the laws and ordinances
of the Gospel.
	4. We believe that the first principles
and ordinances of the Gospel are: (1)
Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; (2) Re-
pentance; (3) Baptism by immersion for
the remission of sins; (4) Laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost.
	5. We believe that a man must be
called of God, by prophecy, and by the
laying on of hands, by those who are in
authority, to preach the Gospel and ad-
minister in the ordinances thereof.
	6. We believe in the same organization
that existed in the Primitive Church, viz;
apostles, prophets, teachers, evangelists,
etc.
	7. We believe in the gift of tongues
prophecy, revelation, visions, healing, in-
terpretation of tongues, etc.
	8. We believe the Bible to be the word
of God, as far as it is translated correctly;
we also believe the Book of Mormon to
be the word of God.
	9. We believe all that God has re-
vealed, all that He does now reveal, and
we believe that He will yet reveal many
great and important things pertaining to
the Kingdom of God.
	10. We believe in the literal gathering
of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten
Tribes; that Zion will be built upon this
(the American) continent; that Christ
will reign personally upon the earth;
and that the earth will be renewed and
receive its paradisiacal glory.
	11. We claim the privilege of worship-
ing Almighty God according to the dic-
tates of our conscience, and allow all men
the same privilege, let them worship how,
where, or what they may.
	12. We believe in being subject to
kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates,
in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the
law.
	13. We believe in being honest, true,
chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in do-
ing good to all men; indeed, we may say
that we follow the admonition of Paul,
We believe all things, we hope all things,
we have endured many things, and hope
to be able to endure all things. If there
is anything virtuous, lovely. or of good
report or praiseworthy, we seek after
these things.—Joseph Smith.
	We believe in the pre-existent state,
that we are created spiritually or existed
in the spirit world before coming here,
that we consented to come, that we
might have a body for our spirits to dwell
in. This pre-existent state is often spoken
of as primeval childhood, or first estate.
The Lord said to Abraham, “And they who
keep their first estate shall be added upon,
and they who keep not this first estate
shall not have glory in the same kingdom
with those who keep their first estate;
and they who keep their second estate
shall have glory added upon their heads
forever and ever.”
	Moses sang, “Remember the days of old
		when the Most High divided to
the nations their inheritance, when He
separated the sons of Adam. He set the
bounds of the people according to the
number of the children of Israel.” The
population of the earth is fixed according
to the number of spirits appointed to take


[Column 1]
tabernacles of flesh upon this earth. We
also read in Genesis of the creation of the
plants and herbs. “Every plant of the field
before it was in the earth, and every herb
of the field before it grew.” And further,
“And I the Lord God had created all the
children of men, and not yet a man to
till the ground, for in heaven created I
them, and there was not yet flesh upon
the earth, neither in the water, nor in
the air; but I the Lord God, spake and
there went a mist from the earth and
watered the whole face of the ground.
And I the Lord God, formed man from
the dust of the ground and breathed into
his nostrils the breath of life, and man
became a living soul, the first flesh upon
the earth, the first man also; neverthe-
less all things were before created but
spiritually were they created and made
according to my word.”
	We believe there are many spirits yet
(yes waiting) to come forth upon this
earth in this dispensation, before the
Millennium, and that they have a right to
be well-born and also to have a body for
their spirits to dwell in, free from disease
and evil, if possible.
	We believe in redemption from the
curse placed upon woman. If you ask
why, we tell you it is a part of our re-
ligion, and we are working to bring it to
pass. In the last days, all things are to
be restored as they were in the beginning.
Eve was created equal with Adam, though
Adam was first. Genesis 1: 27, “So God
created man in His own image, in the
mage of God created He him, male and
female created He them.” In verse 28,
God said, “Be fruitful and multiply and
replenish the earth, and subdue it, and
have dominion,” etc. Woman then was
also given dominion. After the fall, in
chapter 3, verse 16, God said to woman,
“In sorrow shalt thou bring forth chil-
 dren, and thy desire shall he to thy hus-
band, and he shall rule over thee,” plain-
ly showing it had not been so in the be-
ginning.
	Woman will be redeemed from that
curse, as sure as the sun shines or the
Lord lives. And the man and the woman
will be equal, except there must neces-
sarily always be a first, and the man is
first.
	In the Church termed “Mormon,” wo-
men have always voted in all Church as-
semblies, on all questions relating to
temporal or spiritual matters, just as free-
ly as men, therefore it was not strange
that equal suffrage should be accorded to
our women at an early period. In fact,
woman suffrage is in keeping with the in-
stitutions of Mormonism and in harmony
therewith. Brigham Young was one of
the most progressive men of the age, and
the moment woman suffrage was talked
of, he favored it. The legislature then
in session in the winter of 1869 and 1870,
passed a bill giving women equal suffrage,
and the Hon. Abraham O. Smoot (father
of Senator Reed Smoot whose seat in the
Senate of the United States, is now be-

[Column 2]
ing contested) was the man who intro-
duced the bill, which passed, as you
doubtless know, and was signed by the
Secretary of State, the Hon. S. A. Mann,
then Acting Governor in the absence of
the Governor.
	As woman took the lead in the great
drama in the Garden of Eden and the
curse followed, and she suffered the con-
sequences; the daughters of Eve will, we
think, be instrumental in a great measure
through the Gospel in effecting the re-
demption of woman from the curse.
Christianity, so-called, wherever it exists
ameliorates the condition of woman, but
no vital power has yet redeemed her from
the curse. Woman in all countries
wields directly or indirectly the moving
influence for good or ill. History shows
that so long as woman maintained honor,
virtue and purity, grace and dignity as a
wife and mother, that nation had perma-
nency and influence.
	Here let me say the curse was not per-
petual, and that Eve was a willing instru-
ment in effecting a grand purpose for the
ultimate good of the human family, God
had so ordained.
	In the meridian of time the Savior
came, and introduced the Gospel, “which
before was preached unto Abraham,” and
after many centuries when men had
changed its ordinances and broken the
everlasting covenant, the Savion came
through a woman who had to suffer be-
cause of the manner of His birth, though
one cannot help feeling she had spiritual
recompense and consciousness of knowl-
edge others knew not of, yet it was a
woman who brought it about (or through
a woman) this atonement for Adam’s sin;
certainly we know God foreordained this
atonement, the Bible gives abundant
proof, nevertheless, woman took again
this prominent part, and again afterwards,
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were
the first to go and tell the disciples that
Jesus had risen. In Matthew, chapter
xxviii, verse 9, “And as they went to tell
His disciples, behold Jesus met them, say-
ing, “All hail,” and they came and held
Him by the feet and worshiped Him. 10.
Then said Jesus unto them, “Be not
afraid; go tell my brethren, that they go
into Galilee and there they shall see me.”
	In view of all these things and many
more, how can one help thinking woman
will have some vital part in the great
work of redeeming her own sex, the
daughters of Eve, when she has played
so conspicuous a part, first in the Garden
of Eden; and as in the great drama of
the world woman is and has been a
vital, active force, so it will be at the
close of the most sublime drama ever in-
troduced upon any stage, woman in her
purity and magnanimity will rise victori-
ous, having finished the part assigned her
and made restitution. Redeemed from
the curse, her triumph, her song of vic-
tory will be greater and loftier far than
Miriam’s or Deborah’s of old.
	Shakespeare said, “All the world’s a

[Column 3]
stage, and all the men and women mere-
ly players; they have their exits and their
entrances, and one man in his time plays
many parts, his acts being seven ages.”
We most of us believe in Shakespeare,
except those who think Bacon wrote
Shakespeare, and I am not one who does,
and even if it were so, I prefer the truth,
if it is one, the other side takes away
all the dreams of one’s lifetime and ut-
terly destroys the beautiful past. To
pull down Shakespeare and put up Ba-
con is a cruel mockery.
	One can scarcely enter in a philosophi-
cal sense upon why a woman should de-
sire to be a “Mormon” without going
back into the history of the past. I am
aware that in this progressive age that
looking backward is out of fashion, yet
I must in order to explain matters sat-
isfactorily go back to the early days of
the Church, the world calls “Mormon.”
In the opening of this paper, I spoke of
the Gospel, its introduction and of Joseph
Smith receiving the priesthood. Now I
am going to tell you of something which
transpired previous to the Gospel’s being
brought to Kirtland, Ohio, the first gath-
ering place and where the first temple
was built.
	It was a vision and I shall give it in the
words of the woman who had the mani-
festation, and I have heard it many times
from her own lips.
	“My husband, Newel K. Whitney, and
myself, were Campbellites. We had been
baptized for the remission of sins, and
believed in the laying on of hands and
the gift of the spirit. But there was no
one with authority to confer the Holy
Ghost upon us. We were seeking to
know how to obtain the spirit and the
gifts bestowed upon the ancient Saints.
One night, it was midnight, as my hus-
band and I in our house in Kirtland were
praying to the Father to be shown the
way, the spirit rested upon us and a cloud
overshadowed the house. It was as
though we were out of doors. The house
passed away from our vision. We were
not conscious of anything but the pres-
ence of the spirit and the cloud that was
over us. We saw the cloud, and felt the
Spirit of the Lord. Then we heard a
voice out of the cloud saying: ‘Prepare to
receive the word of the Lord for it is
coming!’ At this we marveled greatly,
but from that moment we knew that the
word of the Lord was coming to Kirt-
land.”
	This kind of vision is spoken of by the
ancient Hebrews or Israelites the sacred
people who inherited the covenant as
“Daughter of the Voice.” This is said
to be the tradition of the sons and daugh-
ters of Judah. However this may be,
soon after this remarkable event, the Gos-
pel came to Kirtland.
		[TO BE CONTINUED.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Miss Anna Whitlock, president of the
National Woman Suffrage Association of
Sweden, has organized in Stockholm a
course of lectures for women on citizen-
ship. The lectures are given twice a
week, and are attended by two or three
hundred women of all classes. Tickets
for working women are issued at a re-
duced price. Eminent speakers, both
men and women, give their services.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should he a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 36.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1908. [NEW YEAR’S NUMBER.]			No. 6.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Letter from Afar.................Susie M. Morgan		41
Relief Society Reports:—Box Elder Stake—
	Nebo Stake—San Juan Stake.................	42
	Liberty Stake—Granite Stake.................	43
	Huntsville R. S.—Alpine Stake..............	45
Resolutions of Respect for Sister Caroline D.
	S. Brown.................................................	42
Our Darling Marian...........................E. B. W.	43
Editorial:—The New Year 1908!—An Artistic
	Booklet—A Pretty Home Wedding—
	Notice to Stake Secretaries.....................	44
In Loving Remembrance of Fanny L. Harper	46
“Why a Woman Should Desire to be a Mor-
	mon”.........................Emmeline B. Wells	46
History of the U. W. Press Club......................	48
Poetry:—A Happy New Year to You.....F.R.H.	51
	Old Loves..........................Henyr Murger	41
	An Epitaph..........Lena Griswold Browne	43


A HAPPY NEW YEAR TO YOU.
New mercies, new blessings, new light on the way,
New courage, new hope and new strength for each
	day;
New notes of thanksgiving, new chords of delight,
New praise in the morning, new songs in the
	night;
New wine in the chalice, new altars to raise,
New fruits for the Master, new garments of praise,
New gifts from His treasure, new smiles from
	His face,
New streams from the fountain of Infinite grace.

May He whose changeless glorious name,
Is now and evermore the same.
Make this and every Christmas day,
A brighter light upon the way.
								F. R. H.


OLD LOVES.
	FROM HENRI MURGER.
Louise, have you forgotten yet
	The corner of the flowery land,
The ancient garden where we met,
	My hand that trembled in your hand?
Our lips found words scarce sweet enough,
	As low beneath the willow trees
We sat: have you forgotten, love?
	Do you remember, love-Loaise?
Marie, have you forgotten yet
	The loving barter that we made?
The rings we changed, the suns that set,
	The woods full filled with sun and shade?
The fountains that were musical
	By many an ancient trysting tree—
Marie, have you forgotten all?
	Do you remember, love Marie?
Christine, do you remember yet
	Your room with scents and roses gay?
My garret—near the sky ‘twas set-
	The April hours, the nights of May?
The clear, calm night—the stars above
	That whispered they were fairest seen
Through no cloud-veils? Remember, love!
	Do you remember, love, Christine?
Louise is dead, and, well-a-day!
	Marie a sadder path has ta’en!
And pale Christine has passed away
	In southern suns to bloom again.
Alas! for one and all of us—
	Marie, Louise, Christine, forget:
Our bower of love is ruinous,
	And I alone remember yet.


LETTER FROM AFAR.
	HAZELDENE, AMALINDA, near East
		London, South Africa,
			December 6th, 1907.
		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
DEAR SISTER:
	I wish I could tell you how pleased I was
to receive a P. C. verses and papers from
you two weeks ago. Accept my heartfelt
thanks for such kind thought of me. I do
thoroughly enjoy every word of your excel-
lent paper. I wonder if the saints in Utah
realize how much it is to us out here to re-
ceive anything like that. What a grand
work the Relief Society must be doing and
as I read reports of the meetings and topics
taken I long to join you. I am hoping and
praying that the way will soon be opened
for us to go to Utah. I am rejoicing more
and more in our grand religion and the more
I read, study or think about it, the more
beautiful and perfect it seems to me, and oh,
how I wish I could tell others how I feel,
and why I know it is true; but I fail to make
them understand. As a Christian worker
for years past I have many friends, but not
one of them has any sympathy with my re-
ligion now. My dearest friend, the one who
has been help and comfort to me all my life,
nearly, is not interested enough to read any
Latter-day Saint paper or book. She says
she loves me the same and I have been used
to pouring out my whole heart to her and
now, feel a restraint in what is filling my
heart and mind. Such things are trials to
a sensitive nature; also what we hear said
about the Prophet Joseph and others. I
have been a Sunday School teacher in vari-
ous denominations, but to none of their creeds
could I place my whole heart or feel what I
feel now to our Church. The elders who
have labored in this district have been faith-
ful messengers, but so few take the trouble
to investigate for themselves. We regretted
Elder Geo. M. Cannon’s transfer to another
district. He is a noble character truly Christ-
like. We bid Elder Sheffield goodbye, last
month, and felt like parting from one of the
family. We shall never forget their good-
ness. They used to have a Bible-class with
us twice a month. At present there are no
elders in East London and just one member
beside those of this family; she is a good
woman, in humble circumstances; she is
desirous of going to Utah. I wish I had the
means to send her. Mother and I look for-
ward to the time when we shall have the
privilege and joy of attending conference and
listening to those inspiring discourses. I
love to read them. Another thing I love to
read are the meetings of “Daughters of Pio-
neers”. Oh, how grand it must be to be
one of them. I am a great reader and lover
of good books and literature. I have never
been able to gratify my desire to be the pos-
sessor of a library of good books. Before I
was ten years of age I had read a great
number of books. My father being fond of
reading. I learned when quite young to guide
and control my appetite for reading to choose
wholesome helpful books. I want now to
own all the church works, books and history,

[Column 2]
but cannot afford to buy any. I love poetry,
especially sacred poetry. Have you read
“Whitney’s Poem?” I would like to see the
book. I think it is called “Elias.” As a
child my ambition was to write stories and
books, but I left school when quite young,
and began to help my mother in the care of
a large family; being the eldest in a family of
twelve and you know where there are little
babies coming so often, how much work
there is for mother and big sister.
	I thank God for the patience He enabled
me to give to the little ones. It seemed a
hard discipline to me at times; I ever strove
to be a dutiful daughter and sister; was often
in prayer for help to be kind and loving.
Many times I wanted to be writing, or read-
ing and had to hold baby or cook. I often
think of the wonderful thoughts I used to
have while in the kitchen. I used to prop
my books open on the table to read or learn
pieces. I am very fond of children. I have
only one, a boy of ten. I have been living
with my mother and family since he was
twenty months old. He is a bright little
fellow, and I pray God to help me to bring
him up to be a true Latter-day Saint. It is
hard to train boys without a father’s help.
How beautiful it must be to have a good
husband. My dear father was so good and
mother misses his shielding care of her; he
was called away eight years ago, and, oh,
how we all miss him, he was such a good
father.
	We live on a farm 5 miles from the town.
A long drouth of six months has been very
trying to us; spring rains were witheld.
Three weeks ago copious rains began. The
dry brown aspect of the country is changed
to lovely green; all are busy, ploughing and
sowing, and all vegetation is growing and
though it is summer, it seems like spring.
Lovely wild flowers grow here, I have pres-
sed some on a card for you.
	Christmas will soon be here. I send greet-
ings to you and yours. We hope to have
three elders to spend christmas with us. I
will send you a piece for the EXPONENT if
you care to have one to print; it may interest
some of the sisters to hear about this part
of the world. My mother and brother join
me in loving gospel greetings to you. I hope
to meet you some day. Thanks for good
wishes expressed on your pretty card. Please
write to me soon and remember in your
prayers your sister in the gospel
				SUSIE M. MORGAN.

	P. S. May I ask you to please give my
greeting to Sister Susa Young Gates and tell
her how much I enjoyed reading her address
to “Women of the World," I think it fine.
I received with joy Sister Smith’s letter and
I will answer it shortly.


The famous old Liberty Bell now belongs
to four women, Mrs. James B. McCloskey,
Mrs. C. D. Emerson and Mrs. S. B. Coward
of Philadelphia, and Mrs. S. W. B. Diehl of
Washington, D. C. These four women are
sisters, and the heiresses of John Willbank.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder Stake was held in the Tabernacle
Brigham City, November 5, 1907. Presi-
dent Susannah P. Booth presiding. Sister
Emily Richards of the General Board was
present, also Stake President Olein N. Stohl,
and the officers of the Stake Relief Society.
16 branches of the Society were represent-
ed.
	After the opening exercises President
Booth gave the opening address, felt grate-
ful for the blessings of the Lord, urged the
sisters to be faithful in observing the laws
of the Church, spoke of her recent visit to
the conference at Salt Lake City, had at-
tended many meetings there and enjoyed
the instructions given, felt pleased that the
Relief Society Hall was in course of erec-
tion, mentioned what had been donated by
the Relief Society of the stake, towards the
building.
	Garland Society was reported by President
Julia Bingham; Bothwell by Pres. Sophia
Anderson; Beaver by President Lydia E.
Watkins; Scandinavian Society by President
Emma Pratt.
	Sister Emily Richards said, there is an
heavenly influence here which we always
feel in the meetings of the sisters, referred
to several meetings she had attended, where
many sisters were present, where the in-
fluence of the Holy Spirit flowed freely.
Quoted remarks made by President Joseph
F. Smith, also by the Prophet Joseph in re-
gard to woman’s progress and improvement.
Women are a litte inclined to be contracted,
they must expand before man will be what
he might be, for they are the mothers of
men.
	President Stohl said, how thankful we
should be for the gospel and for the great
knowledge we have received, the complete
organization of the Church. The gospel was
restored in this dispensation to prepare the
way for the coming of Christ. He bore his
testimony, and related several incidents,
spoke on the word of wisdom, advised par-
ents to instruct their families in honesty and
purity of character.
	President Booth made a few closing re-
marks.
	After singing prayer was offered by Coun-
selor Mary J. Harding the sisters repaired to
the vestry where refreshments were served,
after which an officers’ meeting was held and
valuable instructions given by Mrs. Emily
Richards and others.
	Conference was reconvened at 2 o’clock.
President Booth presiding. Stake Counselor
W. C. Horsley was present. After the open-
ing exercises of singing and prayer, etc.,
Bear River City Society was reported by
President Sarah M. Fridahl; Elwood, by
Counselor Annie Hansen.
	Sister Lottie Cazier sang “Providence is
over all.”
	Stake Counselor Emilia D. Madsen spoke
on attending meetings, said, we often ex-
cuse ourselves and others for triflling cares.
We can overcome these little difficulties if
we are determined to do so; referred to her
past labors and associations in the Relief
Society, gave instructions to the teachers,
also spoke at length on the word of wisdom,
rejoiced greatly in the privileges of the gos-
pel.
	Sister Emily Richards expressed pleasure
in witnessing the order of the meetings here,
how nicely and orderly everything was con-

[Column 2]
ducted, was pleased with all she had seen
and heard; spoke of training the young peo-
ple, the care necessary to properly bring
them up, etc.; gave explanations concerning
the nurses class; spoke on the influence of
woman, her help is needed everywhere to
put down lawlessness, so much destruction
has recently been done by our own children;
spoke on existing conditions among us, and
said, there are women, who would rather
take care of dogs than children.
	The Latter-day Saint women know what
their jewels are. Read a poem, “The Mas-
ter.” She spoke interestingly on many other
subjects.
	Elder W. C. Horsley was pleased with the
privilege of attending this conference and of
listening to the speakers, related an incident
or two concerning the young people. Said,
“we must sometimes take a firm stand or
we will have no children.” Related several
incidents and experiences in his travels
among the people, mentioned some of the
good work, accomplished by the Relief So-
ciety in this stake; read two poems, the first
entitled “The mean man,” the second
“What have we done today.”
	President Booth said, we all have been
benefited today by attending this conference,
thanked all for their attendance and assist-
ance.
	After singing “Our God we raise to Thee”
and bendiction by Sister Emmeline Watkins
conference adjourned until next June.
				ANNIE J. WIXOM,
							Secretary.
				NEBO.
	Conference of Nebo Stake Relief Society
was held at Mammoth meeting house, Presi-
dent E. J. Dixon presiding. After the usual
opening exercises, Sister Forcey, president
of Mammoth ward R. S., welcomed us to
their city. Reported Mammoth Ward
society in good condition. President Dixon
was pleased to meet with us in conference
capacity and well pleased with the good re-
port. Asked for a representative to be at
our union meeting to keep in touch with
the work. We must keep up with our du-
ties, if we expect to gain the reward, if we
keep the laws we are sure to have the bless-
ings, we must look in, and not out, look
for the good in ourselves. Sisters Whit-
lock and Freckleton sang a beautiful duet,
“Angels are Watching us.” Sister Mary
Brown read an article on R. S. work and
duties reported the General R. S. still in-
creasing rapidly. Read what Sister Bath-
sheba Smith said in regard to the scope of
R. S. work. Recitation by Sister Millie
Sutherland. Sister May Miller talked on
good environment. Meeting adjourned un-
til 2 p. m., with singing and prayer.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m. After
singing and prayer, reports were heard from
Sister Boyer of Silver, Sister Jones, Eureka,
Sister Forcey, Mammoth, Sister Pierce,
Salem; all in good working order, united
and doing well.
	Duet by Lizzie Allen and Laura Bring-
hurst,
	Sister Townsend spoke of the importance
and magnitude of R. S. work and the great
good accomplished by the sisters each year.
Brother Chatwin was pleased with the re-
ports that had been given here today, spoke
of the power of love with our children in
governing and controlling them. President
Dixon reported Nebo Stake R. S., thanked
the sisters for their contribution to the

[Column 3]
stake tabernacle and also thanked them for
their hospitality.
	Singing, “Do what is right.” Conference
adjourned. Benediction by Sister Forcey.
				ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
							Cor. Sec.
			SAN JUAN.
	The San Juan Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Mancos, Colorado, on
Monday, November 11, 1907. Sisters Annie
T. Hyde and Minnie H. James, of the Gen-
eral Board, as well as a great number of
visftors were present. Stake President
Mary N. Jones presiding. After the open-
ing exercises, the reports of the ten branches
of the Relief Society were given. These re-
ports showed a diligence in the work, not-
withstanding the scattered condition here.
Brother John Evans favored us with a vocal
selection, “Sometime we’ll understand.”
Counselor Annie T. Hyde of the General
Relief Society gave an interesting history of
the early days of the society. We special-
ize the Gospel, we have to live the Gospel
before we can teach it. The love of the
Gospel should be strong enough to enable
us to keep all the commandments. God
meant what he said, “Man, know thyself.”
We need to teach the young people to be
pure minded. We hope the girls will grad-
uate from the mutual and become efficient
Relief Society workers. We grow by what
we give. The test of the love of the Gospel
is shown by the way we live. Don’t worry,
preserve your health that your lives may be
prolonged.”
	Sister Minnie H. James said the Prophet
said every virtuous woman was to be a
member of the society. He opened the
gate and led us in.
	Sister Vida Halls favored us with a solo,
“Sometime, Somewhere.” A good spirit
prevailed throughout the meeting. Our
officers’ meeting was held at 4 p. m., in
which the nurses’ work was spoken of by
Sister Hyde. The day was perfect and
everything contributed to the success of
the conference.
		MARY LYMAN, Sec. pro. tem.


RESOLUTIONS OF RFSPECT EOR SISTER
		CAROLINE D. S. BROWN.
		Kind Words Cost Nothing.
	Whereas our Father in heaven has in His infi-
nite mercy removed from among us our worthy
and dearly loved Sister, Caroline D. S. Brown,
and,
	Whereas the long and intimate relations with
her as a faithful member of the Wellsville Relief
Society.—We deem it our duty as officers of said
Society that we record our appreciation.
	Therefore be it resolved, That her wisdom and
ability as a faithful member and her wise counsel
will be held in grateful remembrance.
	Resolved, That the removal of such a life from
among our number leaves a vacancy and a shadow
that will be deeply realized by all the members of
this Society and a serious loss to all who knew
her for the exemplary life she lived.
	Besolved, That we deeply sympathize with the
bereaved family and pray our Heavenly Father to
sustain and comfort them in the hour of their bit-
ter trials.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
recorded in the record book of the Relief Society
and a copy published in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
and a copy handed to the bereaved family.
				SARA A. PARKER, Prest.
				MARY J. PARKER, Sec'y.


Eleanora Duse has bought the celebrated
Capponi palace in Italy for $120,000.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN P TAPH.
BY LENA GRISWOLD BROWNE.
Within a country churchyard small,
Where faded rose-leaves gently fall,
There lies a low and narrow mound,
Which children softly gather round,
And strangers trace the well-worn path
To read this sweetest epitaph:
“Below, the body of a child we lay,
Of whom her playmates often say,
(A tender girl, to heart and memory dear)
’Twas easier to be good when she was here.”
I cannot tell how long has been her rest,
Since first the rose-leaves fell upon her breast,
Nor paint the picture of her form and face,
Or tell the name of this sweet child of grace;
I only read this witness, quaint and rare
“’Twas easier to be good when she was there”
As pilgrims in a strange and unknown way
Pause at some holy shrine to kneel and pray,
So here I bow, this prayer upon my lip—
“Grant me this seal of Christ’s discipleship,
That for some soul the way was made less
	drear,
And easier to be good, when I was here.”
O brother mine, with all thy wealth and power,
Which after all but answer one brief hour,
’Twere better that thou rest without a name.
Thy deeds unknown to all but household fame,
If but a child shall whisper o’er thy bier,
“’Twas easier to be good when he was here!”


[Column 1]
	OUR DARLING MARIAN.
	The memory of this beautiful little girl
will endure with those who knew and loved
her as long as life shall last; the sorrow of
her departure from among us has stricken
the breasts of those nearest and dearest in
the home of which she was one of the choic-
est treasures,
	The verses we use in connection with this
notice of Marian seem very appropriate to
her, She was good, and one of the choice
spirits sent from above to bless and happify
those unto whom she came, and never was
a child more welcome. Her parents and
grandparents almost idolized her as a baby.
Nothing was ever too good for Marian, and
she grew from her infancy to be a distinct-
ive personality in the home. She was very
attractive and made friends everywhere she
went; her grandfather made a sort of com-
panion of her from her babyhood, as long
as he lived. Marian must go to gather
roses in the flower garden with him, and
the rarest flowers were for her; in fact,
all her short life it seemed but natural that
she should have the best and choicest of
everything, and she grew to be companion-
able to be both old and young. She was
fond of elderly people and paid them def-
erence that was noticeable. A foreign lady
artist, advanced in years, who only knew
the child casually, said of her, “she was the
most respectful to age of any child she had
seen in America.” Marian was naturally
religious; she loved Sunday School and
Primary, she was gifted one might say with
music that amounted to a passion, was
studious at school, reveled in story books,
and was fond of play and exercise; never
still, an uncommon child, in many ways
quaint and original, and even dramatic.
We had not thought of her dying, perhaps
because she was rather delicate and had
lived through several serious illnesses.
	Marian Buchholz was the daughter of C.
W. and Isabel Sears Buchholz, and the
grandchild of Hon. S. W. and Isabel M.
Whitney Sears, and was the eldest of three
children. She was born at the residence of
her grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. Sears, in
East Waterloo, August 2, 1898. Her death
was the result of heart failure, while suffer-

[Column 2]
ing from quinsy and tonsilitis, and was very
sudden, She passed peacefully away at 8
o’clock on Saturday morning, December 14,
1907, aged nine years, four months and
twelve days. Her father was absent in
Bingham and had to receive the painful
news by telephone. The father’s family
reside in the east, so none of them could
be present at the funeral except a sister—
Miss Buchholz—who was here on a visit.
	The blow to the entire family was almost
unendurable, but great griefs, though seem-
ingly heart-breaking, have to be borne, and
though sorrows gather like great storms and
break upon us suddenly, they purify us, if
we will but submit to them, as the storms
purify the air. It is true that sorrow is
the noblest discipline; though our natures
shrink from it, it is none the less a dis-
cipline. Those who have suffered are like
those who know many languages—they
have learned to understand and to be under-
stood.
“There is no flock, however watched and tended,
	But one dead lamb is there;
There is no fireside, howso’er defended,
	But has one vacant chair.”
	Marian was dressed in the beautiful,
delicate things she loved, and in the
pure white casket looked angelic and fitted
for the divine presence. The last hymn
she sang for me, playing her own accom-
paniment on the piano, was, “O my Father”
now she has gone where she will join in
the sweetest music of the heavenly throng.
	The funeral services were held on Tues-
day, December 17, at the residence on 8th
East, in this city.
	Stake President Joseph S. Wells, uncle
of Mrs. Buchholz, presiding. The rooms
were literally embowered in flowers, gifts
of relatives and dear friends, as were all of
those who took part in the services. The
singers were H. G. Whitney, John D. Spen-
cer, Hattie Whitney Saville and Rettie Py-
per. The opening hymn was ‘‘Sweet and
low,” a touching prayer was offered by
Apostle Orson F. Whitney, and the speaker
was Elder Junius F. Wells, who drew in
the course of his remarks a vivid picture of
the Savior surrounded by the children
whom on one occasion. when visiting this
continent after His resurrection, He took in
His arms, one by one, and blessed. Elder
Wells portrayed the scene so clearly, that
one spiritually inclined could both see and
feel the transfiguration.
	Elder Horace S. Ensign sang as a solo
Marian’s favorite hymn, “O my Father.”
and Elder John Q. Cannon pronounced the
benediction. At the cemetery the singers
rendered “Beautiful Land of Somewhere,”
and Elder Joseph S. Wells dedicated the
grave, which was lined with lovely flowers
and covered afterwards with those sweet
mementoes of love—a last tribute of sincere
affection to one who dearly loved the beau-
tifui in nature and in art.		E. B. W.


R. S. REPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Lib-
erty stake Relief Society convened in the
Second Ward meeting house, December
6, 1907, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., with Pres.
Annie S. Musser presiding. The soloists
for the morning session were Miss Claudia
Hoge and Miss Woolley.
	After the opening exercises, etc., Pres.
Musser made a few opening remarks and
feelingly welcomed the sisters, and very
favorable reports were made by the presi-
dents of the 9th, 31st and 33rd wards, after
which Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley deliv-
ered a lecture on Prayer, followed by Sister
Nibley, member of the General Board. El-
der Milando Pratt of the high council of
Liberty stake, and Sister Annie T. Hyde, of
the General Board, bore their testimony.
	After singing the doxology, and benedic-
tion by Sister Jessie West, conference ad-
journed until 2 o’clock.
	Conference re-convened at 2 o’clock by
singing “O ye mountains high,” and prayer
by Sister Margaret Buchanan.
	Sister Harriet Harker, of the General
Board, gave us some timely instructions in
regard to our work, followed by a lecture on
Home, Wife and Mother, by Sister Emily
Davis, which was much enjoyed.
	Sister Annie K. Hardy, of the Ensign
stake, spoke to us for a short time, and
Miss Keddington rendered a solo.
	Elder Charles W. Symons, of the High
Council of Liberty stake, and Sister Peters,
of Salt Lake stake, urged us to be humble
and prayerful, and spoke words of comfort
to the Relief Society workers.
	A solo was then rendered by Mrs. Bessie
Browning.
	Pres. Musser made a few closing remarks,
thanking all who had helped to make our
conference a success.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Secretary.
		GRANITE STAKE.
	A program of unusual excellence char-
acterized the recent quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of Granite stake,
which was held in the stake taberna-
cle on December 10, 1907. We were fa-
vored with the presence of Sisters Bathshe-
ba W. Smith, Annie T. Hyde, Priscilla Jen-
nings, and Julina L. Smith, of the General
Board, and fourteen stake officers.
	An eloquent address on “The Blessings
of the Faithful” was given by Bishop J. D.
Cummings of Wilford ward. Two solos
were rendered by Sister Juliet C. Carter, and
some excellent remarks were made by some
of the visitors.
	The afternoon session was taken up by
the family of the late George A. Smith, in
continuation of the “Lives of Our Leaders.”
A biographical sketch of the life of George
A. Smith was read by his granddaughter,
Sister Irene Merrill Richards. Solo was
given by Sister Bessie Smith, Apostle John
Henry Smith paid an elegant tribute to the
memory of his father, said: Geo. A. Smith was
a worker—a man who was never overdone
or underdone in his duty; a man of energy
and sound judgment, absolutely fearless in
defending the right. An honest man, who
feared his God and none other, who believed
implicitly in the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and who loved the
work of God more than all else—in short, a
Latter-day Saint.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith followed with
many interesting reminiscences of her hus-
band’s life and labors, and Sister Julina
L. Smith also paid a tribute to his memory.
	The singing was very good, and was led
by a choir composed of Relief Society chor-
isters and singers of the different wards of
the stake, under the direction of the stake
chorister.
	The attendance was excellent and all
went home feeling repaid for coming. It was
a day long to be remembered by all who
were present. 
	LUCY M. GREEN, Assistant Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00 one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B.WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	January, 1908.


[Column 1]
		THE NEW YEAR 1908!
	HAIL TO THE GLAD NEW YEAR!
	The new year opens auspiciously in most
respects, the weather is fine, and with the
one exception the tightness of ready money
making work scare there seems to be no
drawback to prosperity; new schemes for the
upbuilding of the State and promoting of
home manufacture seem to be underway, or
in the air at least, and it is ardently hoped
and very desirable that the developments
anticipated, along these advantageous lines
may meet with success. At any rate it is
pleasant to believe in looking ahead that
Utah will become a great centre of Western
industrial civilization, and side by side with
material interests and growth, educational
progression should go hand in hand until
Utah stands second to none of the other,not
even older states, and equal in all desirable
respects to the greatest and most highly
cultured.
	There is good reason, why Utah should
stand first; and the people of the state should
maintain the dignity of the position that
brought them here into the Great Basin;
they came in search of a home for liberty,
for freedom of conscience as did the Pilgrims
who planted their feet in Plymouth and es-
tablished the commonwealth of the old Bay
State, and the leading men and women who
came hither were the lineal descendants of
those Pilgrims of New England. Massachus-
sets has always held her own in this regard
and has made that state acknowledged as
first; that’s why Boston is the “Hub” so
should Salt Lake City become the centre in
all the modern graces and phases of en-
lightenment.
	Maintaining a high standard of excellence
as a state in all that pertains, or savors of
the best in citizenship is one of the right
ways to uplift a community. The constitu-
tion of Utah gives the key to the best meas-
ures and regulations for so doing and the
people should see to it in electing legislators
that they select men and women, who will
stand for the best interests of the entire peo-
ple and take a broad view of questions at
issue, instead of being persuaded to give up
rights, that should be guarded with the ut-
most vigilance, because there were those
politicians who could seemingly buy them
soul and body with silver-tongued eloquence.
	Utah is bound to take the lead in many
ways, but there must be honorable upright
men to guide the helm of state, and they

[Column 2]
should be men, who will recognize the women
who have done so much in the past to make
Utah what it is today. There are industries
that women (pioneer women too) started in
Utah that could be made to yield untold
wealth were they fostered as they should be
(and as they should have been) and given
the encouragement in the way (and in other
ways) of bounty, which was for a time
granted. We refer more especially to the
silk industry let us hope this interest may
be revived and become one of the sources of
revenue that will furnish employment for
women and children in the home; and not
only that but a source of wealth to the state.
If the men acquainted with history would
read what silk has has done for France they
would recognize that there is “a gold mine
in silk.”
	In these days when there are so many
tourists visiting Utah, silk specimens are be-
ing asked for and there is really nothing to
show them worth while. It is regrettable
that so many have cut down their mulberry
trees and become discouraged in trying to
keep up the industry at all. Even were it
turned over altogether to machinery and a
silk factory established on a permanent basis,
the silk must be produced by raising cocoons
and the worms must have the leaves to feed
upon.
	In days gone by the Relief Society made
every exertion possible, through the influ-
ence of President Brigham Young, to start
this industry; thousands of mulberry trees
were planted and cocoons raised and silk
worms and creditable work seemed to be
established on a small scale to be sure and
most of it in the homes of the people.
	Utah silk at the Columbian Exposition
was the pride of the women who were on the
Board. In fact more credit was given Utah
women delegates for the silk displayed than
anything else sent from the Territory. In
view of what has been done in the past there
need be no fear or anxiety about results if
the industry could be taken up by men of
means and enterprise.
	The EXPONENT extends hearty New Year’s
Greeting to all its readers and patrons, and
hopes for success in the year now coming
forward to all enterprises and institutions for
the benefit of the community.
	Especially we are desirous that the women
of the state should be interested in the public
welfare, and to read and study the momen-
tous questions that lie at the foundation of
morality, law and order, justice and equity.
To become familiar with the meaning and
purpose of equal suffrage now a constituent-
part of their freedom and liberty, and not
neglect to use the privilege given them un-
derstandingly and make no mistakes, for
where much is given much is required.


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society or others who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years  ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


A PRETTY HOME WEDDING.

“How happy they! The happiest of their kind
Whom gentle fates unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings
	blend.”

	On Thursday morning, December 19,
1907, Richard Denton Andrew and Louise
Blanche Cannon, both of this city, were
united in marriage, President Joseph F.
Smith performing the ceremony in the Salt
Lake Temple at 11 a. m.
	The wedding reception was held at the
Cannon home at eight in the evening.
About two hundred invitations had been
issued and many guests responded by being
present. The rooms were artistically decor-
ated, the parlor with spring effect with pink
and white, the large bay window where the
bridal party stood was a complete bower of
apple blossoms in sprays and branches, a
trellis of the daintiest ribbons pink and
white and a lattice of green arching over
the recess. Carnations pink and white
about the room gave a dainty summer air
to the whole. The spacious dining room was
in Christmas red and green, twelve smaller
tables being arranged around a central one
having a large candelabra shaded in red for
a centrepiece, while sprays of holly were
strewn over the tables and bows of red rib-
bon completed the pretty and effective pic-
ture.
	The bride wore a gown of white net over
white silk, and carried a shower bouquet of
white roses, she appeared as dainty and
sweet as a slender white lily. The brides-
maids were her sister Miss Margarer Cannon
in pale pink and white and Miss Lucile
Wallace in pale blue and white, both the
girls carried sprays of pink and white carna-
tions. Mr. Bert Cooper was best man to
the young and bashful bridegroom. The
bridal couple received many beautiful and
some very elegant presents, for they were
great favorites with their numerous friends.
	The evening passed off very pleasantly
and when at the close of the festivities and
the guests were about to leave, the bride
threw her bouquet from the top of the stair-
case, there was considerable merriment over
the rush to be first to catch the bride roses.
Altogether the affair passed off like a charm.
	That the future life of this young couple
may be as happy and prosperous as their
fond parents and friends could wish, is the
desire and prayer of the writer.

“Love rules the court, the camp, the grove
And man below and saints above
For love is heaven, and heaven is love.”


NOTICE TO STAKE SECRETARIES.
	The stake secretaries of the Relief Soci-
ety are reminded that the annual report for
the year 1907, from January 1 to December
31, should now be prepared. Please note
all changes in officers and new branches
organized, condition of grain in storage as
well as the amount on hand, the number of
buildings or parts of buildings, and rooms
in meeting houses, if owned by the Society.
Address General Secretary, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Templeton Building, Salt Lake City,
Utah.
	P. S,—This notice applies to all the
countries where branches of the Society are
organized in missions at home or abroad,
in whatever part of the world.
	Millennial Star, Scandinavian, Swiss and
German and Dutch Latter-day Saint papers
please use this notice in the respective lan-
guages, so that it may be understood abroad.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			HUNTSVILLE R. S.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Huntsville, held at the Relief Society hall,
October 16, 1907. Conference convened at
10 o’clock a. m., Counselor Juliana Nielson
presiding. Singing. Prayer by Bishop
Renstrom.
	Emeline Bingham, president of the Mid-
dleton ward, reported the society as not very
flourishing on account of the small number
of sisters and sickness; said the sisters in
their ward were willing to work and do what
they could. President Shoop, Eden ward, gave
a good report of their society; said they held
meeting every week and had met with good
success; they were piecing quilts and doing
all they could to help the society. Presi-
dent Chard from Liberty ward felt pleased
to meet in conference with the sisters, they
had not held their meetings as she would
like on account of the people living so scat-
tered, but felt the busy time was over now
and that they would be able to hold their
meetings. Counselor Juliana Nielson of
Huntsville reported the society in good con-
dition, her greatest desire was that Sister
Eliza Tracy, the president, would soon gain
the strength she so much needed; that she
would soon be able to meet with her sisters
again; she felt the Lord was blessing Sister
Tracy in her affliction, and that He would
bless us in our affliction if we would do our
duty when we were able. Counselor Mary
Burrows felt pleased to be at the conference,
and felt the influence of the good spirit that
was present.
	Stake President Jane S. Richards felt
very pleased to be in our midst once more,
she felt that when we are sick if we have
been faithful in attending to our duties, that
the Lord would bless us in all our trials, en-
couraged the sisters to do their duty in every
respect so far as it is possible, and asked
the blessings of the Lord to be with each
and every one.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the last time
she was in Huntsville, and felt perfectly
satisfied with the sisters, was glad to hear
their humble testimony; she felt they were
trying to do their duty, spoke of the noble
work being done by the Relief Society
throughout the world, spoke of the work
Brother and Sister Penrose were accomplish-
ing in Europe, said they had organized 18
branches of the Relief Society and that the
good work would still continue.
	Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff felt pleased
to meet with the sisters in Huntsville and
the neighboring wards; she was twenty years
of age when she first joined the Relief So-
ciety; said it had been taught to her since
her childhood, that her mother was indeed
a true Relief Society worker, although there
was none organized in her day, did not feel
to speak long on account of having a bad
cold.
	Sister Emily S. Richards felt pleased to
meet with all, felt that in such a beautiful
valley one could live their religion where all
was peace and quietude away from the noise
of city life, asked the Spirit of the Lord to
be with us.
	After singing and benediction meeting ad-
journed until 1 o’clock p. m.
	A banquet was spread for all sisters in the
beautiful hall upstairs.
	Conference continued at 1 o’clock p. m.
After usual opening exercises Katheren
Grow was called to act as one of the trustees
in the Relief Society.
	Bishop A. P. Renstrom felt pleased to

[Column 2]
meet with the sisters in their conference,
said that as a member of the Bishopric he
felt the society was performing a great and
a noble work and it would be impossible to
get along without the aid of the sisters.
	Counselor Charles S. S. Wood felt there
were many of the sisters that could and
would speak to us and give to us the spiritual
food necessary for us to receive, felt the sis-
ters were doing their duty and that they were
being blessed in their labors.
	Elder Angus McKay felt to rejoice, enjoyed
the good spirit that was present, he only
wished the brethren enjoyed the same spirit
as do the sisters, said they were full of love,
good will and sympathy, there was nothing
that would bring the spirit of the Gospel like
the love and good will that the sisters pos-
sessed.
	Sister Lona Schade was pleased to be
present, spoke of President Richards’ long
and earnest labors, and was glad to bear her
testimony to the truth of the work.
	Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff was pleased
to hear the brothers speak words of encour-
agement to the sisters in regard to their
labors, said we could always show in our
actions love and kindness to each other;
urged the parents to have patience with their
boys and to teach them by love and kindness,
and she hoped the true love of the Gospel
would be in every heart.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt pleased to see a
full house, spoke of the pioneers at Winter
Quarters, the faithfulness of the Saints
and the gift of tongues, manifest at
that trying time; said how careful we
should be of the gifts of the Gospel and
of all sacred things.
	Eliza A. Tracy was sustained president
of the Relief Society of Huntsville, Juliana
Nielson first counselor, Mary Burrows sec-
ond counselor; Nicolena Sorensen, secretary;
Emma Tracy, assistant secretary; Grace Mc-
Farland, treasurer; Willimena McKay, Lona
Schade and Kathren Grow as trustees.
	President Richards felt it was time for us
to throw all frivolous things aside, spoke of
being kind to those that were afflicted and
to comfort the downcast and the sorrowful,
kindness costs nothing and is a great com-
fort to those who need it.
	Sister Emily S. Richards was thankful for
the privilege of saying a few words and for
the many gifts and blessings of the Gospel,
and asked that union and love might ever be
with us all as it is today.
	Sister Nellie Becraft felt pleased to be at
the conference and to bear her testimony to
all that had been said, spoke of our young
folks and the interest we should take in
them to keep them from going to places
where they ought not to go.
	Singing and then benediction offered by
Elder Stewart Eccles.
			EMMA TRACY, Asst. Sec’y.

			ALPINE.
	The regular quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine stake was held at
Pleasant Grove, Friday, October 18, 1907,
President Rebecca Standring presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Standring expressed her pleasure in
meeting her sisters in fall conference. Said,
Times are hastening on; are we keeping
up with the times and trying to do our duty
along with the brethren. There had been
much sickness amongst us lately, and some
of our presidents are laboring incessantly
among the sick, until some of them are
worn down and not able to attend to their

[Column 3]
legitimate duties. This should not be, there
are quite a number of sisters who can attend
to this matter, which should be directed by
the teachers. This would be satisfactory,
for the president would know that the sick
are well taken care of. This organization is
the greatest on earth among women, they
not only attend to the temporal wants of the
poor but look after the spiritual welfare. Bore
a faithful testimony, and thought it would
be good to have a spiritual meeting this
morning, that the sisters might bear testi-
mony of the work of the Lord and the good-
ness of God towards them.
	A majority of the local presidents bore
testimony and sxpressed their love of
Relief Society work and their determiation
to continue in their labors and to do their
duty. Also reported their several wards,
which are in good working order, with faith-
ful officers and teachers. A spirit of im-
provement seems to be in their midst, and
they are steadily advancing, showing an in-
crease in faith and good works and a gener-
al good feeling among officers and members,
all doing whatever is assigned to them.
	Singing—“Who are these arrayed in
white?”
	Brother James H. Clarke, of the stake
presidency, was pleased that the sisters were
loyal to the president of the Society, and
had spoken as they were moved upon by
the Holy Spirit. We should be loyal to our
Church and loyal to our families and friends.
If we are loyal to each other, the spirit will
grow with us and we will stand for every
pure principle of the Gospel and everything
that is good. If we do wrong we bring re-
proach upon each other and upon the
Church. Your hearts are in the work, and
if this influence were to be carried to others,
how much good would be effected. Strang-
ers watch us, and we should try to get them
to see the light; if we could convert them we
would have much cause for rejoicing—some-
times five minutes’ sermon will accomplish
much good. Was sorry to see little boys on
the street at night! The parents know not
what they are doing, but if they get into evil,
trouble may come. The Lord is with you,
sisters, and though your bodies may be
weak, He will bless you, and after a while
you will go on the other side, where there is
no weakness, but crowns of life will be laid
up for you, that fade not away. Cease not
to pray for your wayward children—don’t
give them up; they may have to suffer, but
the Lord will bring them back. Felt to ask
God’s blessing on the sisters and that His
Spirit may abide with them continually.
	Singing and benediction.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session, reassembled at 2
o’clock, President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing.
	After the opening exercises, three more of
the presidents of wards reported, each branch
of the stake is in an encouraging condition,
they also bore testimony to the principles of
the Gospel and expressed the pleasure they
took in Relief Society work.
	R. S. Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley
felt when the sisters were telling of their
visits to the sick and poor they were fulfill-
ing the words of scripture. We believe in
doing to others as we would have others
do unto us. Was pleased with President
Standring’s instructions regarding the care
of the sick. Its not wisdom for the presi-
dents to take so much responsibility upon
themselves until they are worked down, for
they do more than their strength allows. We
as mothers know whether our children are


out on the streets or at home, and my sym-
pathy goes out to mothers who are troubled
over children. As mothers we are trying to 
do our very best, and we are blessed in having
children in our homes. May the spirit of
the Lord help us to guide our children.
There is no heaven for us without children,
and parents and friends. May we be able
to control our children that we may enjoy
peace and contentment.
	Stake Counselor Harriet Jacobs testified
to the truth of the Latter-day Gospel. We
are blessed in having been brought out of
the world unto the light of the Gospel. Sis-
ters, be wise when you go to sit up with the
sick—if possible, lie down and give the pa-
tients a chance to rest if they can. I have
suffered myself by having persons sit up
when they might as well have lain down.
You can give all the attention needed when
you are close at hand. We are told that
we will be judged by our thought. We
cannot help our thoughts coming, but we
are responsible for those thoughts remaining.
When we feel bowed down, let us sing the
songs of Zion, and we will feel lifted up. Let
us keep the Word of Wisdom, and let us en-
courage our young sisters to go to the tem-
ple when they enter the holy state of matri-
mony, Asked the Lord to bless us in our
endeavors to improve.
	President Stephen L. Chipman: The re-
ports of the wards are necessary. We learn
from each other, and a word may be dropped
that will benefit another. To be spiritually-
minded is life We must think of the things
of God. We must act along the lines of the
Gospel; the more we work, the more we en-
joy the spirit of the Gospel. The Relief
Society is one of the helps to assist in con-
verting souls and in caring for the sick and
downcast. It is necessary that we have
charity. We must bear with one another
where I am weak; perhaps you may be
strong, and where I am strong you may be
weak. Every organization in the Church is
necessary, and one cannot say to another,
We have no need of thee; all have been
placed there to help and make a perfect
completeness. God established this work
and this plan, and our organization aston-
shes the world. The Lord will bless us if
we are united and work in harmony togeth-
er. The sisters are more loving and spirit-
ual-minded than their brothers. It is in the
hearts of the sisters to reach out and help all
who are in need, Spoke of the movement
on foot to establish free libraries in the
small towns for the benefit of the boys and
attract them from the streets. May God
bless you, my sisters, may we never tire of
work in this cause.
	Sister Zina Chipman said we have had
truths enough today to reflect on for a long
time. We have no time to waste, and
hoped she would always be ready and will-
ing to do her duty in this Society.
	Meeting closed by singing and prayer by
Sister Emma Featherstone.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA J. T. RORERTS, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The homestead of John Alden and Pris-
cilla, at Duxbury, Mass., which was sold at
auction under foreclosure a few days ago,
was bought by the Alden Kindred Associa-
tion of America, and will be preserved as a
memorial. The house was built in 1653, and
has been inhabited by descendants of John
Alden and Priscilla ever since.


IN LOVING REMEMBRANCE OF FANNY L.
				HARPER.
	On the 16th of September, 1907, there passed
away from earth one of the noble spirits of this
dispensation, Sister Fanny L. Harper, beloved
wife of Prest. William T. Harper, of the Cassia
stake presidency. Sister Harper was the daugh-
ter of Chester and Rosanna Loveland, and was
born at Call’s Fort, Utah, January 9, 1863. In
1884, in connection with her husband: she moved
to Albion, Cassia county, Idaho, where in meek-
ness of spirit she won the respect and love of all
who associated with her. In the summer of 1900
her husband was called to the presidency of Cas-
sia stake of Zion, and it became necessary to
move to Oakley, the headquarters of the stake,
and from that time on she was an ever ac:ive
worker in the Relief society.
	She was president of the First Ward Society
until that ward was divided and the Fourth
Ward was created, at which time she was made
president of the new ward society, which position
she held until a month befere her death. All
were reluctant to release her, hoping and pray-
ing she would recover from a serious illness of
heart trouble that had overtaken her a year be-
fore. She had the greatest desire to live and
raise her children, and could not be reconciled
until a few days before she passed away, when
too weak to speak above a whisper, those at her
bedside overheard her beseeching her Father in
heaven for strength to do His will, and from that
time sweet peace pervaded their home? She was
the mother of ten children, six of whom survive
her, the eldest being on a mission to New Zealand.

			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our heavenly Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to call from our midst our
much esteemed and beloved president, Fanny L.
Harper, who departed this life on the 16th of Sep-
tember, 1907; and
	Whereas, our intimate association with her in
the performance of her duty as a president of the
Relief Society of Oakley Fourth ward, has so en-
deared her to us, that we feel it a duty and a
pleasure to express our appreciation of her labors
in our Society and of her earnest endeavor to do
right,of her integrity and faithfulness in the Gos-
pel of Jesus Christ.
	She was a devoted and loving helpmate to her
husband, a kind, tender and affectionate mother
to her children. Therefore,
	Be it resolved, that we, the members of the
Oakley Fourth Ward Relief Society, do most
deeply mourn the loss of so faithful a sister, but
are willing to acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in all things.
	Be it further resolved, that we extend our
heart felt sympathy to her husband and children
in their bereavement, and ask Him to bless and
comfort them in their hour of trouble and
	Be it further resolved, that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes, of our society, and a copy
given to the bereaved family of the deceased,and
a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Louisa H. Hale, Margery A. Price, Fortbilda
I. Funk, Committee.


[Column 1]
“WHY A WOMAN SHOULD DESIRE TO
			BE A MORMON.”
			(Concluded.)
	(Written by special request and read at
Womens’ Clubs in New York.)

	Parley P. Pratt brought to Kirtland the
Gospel and also the Book of Mormon and
presented these truths to Sidney Rigdon,
who was also a Campbellite, and con-
verted him to the Gospel, as also many
others, notably Eliza R. Snow and her
brother Lorenzo, who were also members
of the Campbellite faith. Sidney Rigdon
was afterwards Counselor to Joseph
Smith, the Prophet, and Parley P. Pratt
and Lorenzo Snow became members of
the Quorum of Twelve Apostles. Loren-
zo Snow was at the time of his death,
October, 1901, President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Eliza
R. Snow, his sister, was a gifted poet and
is alluded to by “Mormons” and Gentiles
as “Zion’s Poetess.”
	One of her hymns has become famous

[Column 2]
in many lands and is quoted and sung in
other churches besides our own. We
distributed with our program of our meet
ing in the Woman’s Congress, at the Col-
umbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893,-
hundreds of copies of this poem. I in-
sert it here as giving you an idea of our
belief in a pre-existence, it is styled— 

		AN INVOCATION.
	“O My Father, Thou that dwellest,
		In the high and glorious place;
	When shall I regain Thy presence
		And again behold Thy face?
	In Thy holy habitation,
		Did my spirit once reside?
	In my first primeval childhood
		Was I nurtured near Thy side?

	“For a wise and glorious purpose
		Thou hast placed me here on earth,
	And withheld the recollection
		Of my former friends and birth.
	Yet oftimes a secret something
		Whispered ‘You’re a stranger here;’
	And I felt that I had wandered
		From a more exalted sphere.

	“I had learned to call Thee Father
		Through the Spirit from on high;
	But, until the Key of Knowledge
		Was restored, I knew not why.
	In the heavens are parents single?
		No, the thought makes reason stare! 
	Truth is reason; truth eternal
		Tells me I’ve a mother there.

	“When f leave this frail existence,
		When I lay this mortal by
	Father, mother, may I meet you
		In your royal courts on high?
	Then at length when I’ve completed
		All you sent me forth to do
	With your mutual approbation
		Let me come and dwell with you.”

	There are many interesting incidents
connected with the women of the Church
that would answer the question asked in
the title of this paper, but it is not pos-
sible to elaborate in so little time, as we
must touch upon the marriage question
and the everlasting covenant.
	Marriage seems now the great question
of the age. At any rate, it is the woman’s
special subject, it is certainly one of the
reasons why a woman should desire to be
a Mormon. Marriage is a part of our re-
ligion, we believe in marriage, and mar-
riage for eternity as well as for time.
Every one who believes in the Bible must
know marriage was ordained of God; and
the first requirement made of Adam and
Eve, was to multiply and replenish the
earth, etc. It is useless to quote to intel-
ligent women that “Man is not without
the woman, nor the woman without the
man in the Lord.” The saying is pro-
verbial.
	We believe in the strictest morality
and purity of life in both men and women
equally. One standard of morals, not-
withstanding all that has been said of us
as a people to the contrary. Leaving all
that out of the question, we believe in
what is termed Celestial Marriage, the
ceremony to be performed by an Elder
in the Church holding the authority to
unite men and women in the bonds of
matrimony for time and all eternity; that
covenant we hold sacred; we expect not
only to dwell together here, but to dwell
together in the family relation hereafter
throughout all the endless ages of eter-
nity; and as we do not think there is any
other class of people on the earth holding
the priesthood of God, which is after the
order of Melchisedec except the Latter-
day Saints, if we expect to attain that ex-
altation in the eternal world, then we must


[Column 1]
abide in that faith called “Mormonism.”
	If you look at the seventh chapter of
Hebrews, you will perhaps understand
what I mean better. “For this Melchise-
dec, king of Salem, priest of the Most
High God, who met Abraham returning
from the slaughter of the kings and
blessed him. To whom also Abraham
gave a tenth part of all, first being by in-
terpretation King of Righteousness, and
after that also King of Salem, which is
King of Peace.”
	I cannot take time to enter further into
this order of marriage except to say that
through these covenants we hope to at-
tain to celestial glory in the world to
come, which hope encourages us to per-
severe that we may have our mansions,
not ethereal, but real, to dwell in, and
eventually attain to greater glory, going
on and on in greater progression, worlds
without end.
	That there is no stopping place for
those united thus, who magnify their
calling and make their election sure. In
1. Corinthians, chapter XV, verse 40:
“There are also celestial bodies and bod-
ies terrestrial; but the glory of the celes-
tial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial
is another.” In verse 41: “There is one
glory of the sun and another glory of the
moon, and another glory of the stars, for
one star differeth from another in glory.”
	Perhaps you may think from what I
have said that we go directly to the man-
sions of glory when we die, but I do not
mean that, but we pass from here to the
spirit world and await the morning of the
resurrection, when we shall all be judged
according to the deeds done in the body.
There are many passages in the Bible
which to me prove the resurrection when
our bodies which we have laid down will
be reunited with our spirits and we shall
be glorified and go on unto perfection.
	In this connection, perhaps, it would
be well to say one of the purposes of
building Temples is for sacred ordinances
pertaining to the dead. Do you recall
the passage of scripture, 1 Peter 3:19-20,
“By which also, (speaking of Christ) He
went and preached unto the spirits in
prison which sometime were disobedient,
when the long-suffering of God waited in
the days of Noah,” etc. Also refer to
1 Cor., 15, 29: “Else what shall they do
who are baptized for the dead, if the dead
rise not at all? Why are they then bap-
tized for the dead?”
	There is proof also in the prophecies
of the ancient prophets in regard to the
coming of Elijah. In the closing chapter
of the Old Testament, the Prophet Mala-
chi says’ “For behold the day cometh
that shall burn as an oven.” And in the
last two verses he says: “Behold, I will
send you Elijah the prophet, before the
coming of the great and dreadful day of
the Lord; and he shall turn the heart of
the fathers to the children, and the heart
of the children to their fathers, lest I
come and smite the earth with a curse.”
	We testify that Elijah came. He ap-
peared to Joseph the Seer and Oliver
Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple, April 3,
1836, and he said to them, after repeating
the words of Malachi,” “The time has
fully come spoken by Malachi;” he also
said. “The keys of this dispensation are
committed into your hands.”
	As one evidence of the coming of Eli-
jah, the whole world, so to speak has
been gathering genealogical statistics for

[Column 2]
the last fifty years, proving conclusively
to the Latter-day Saints that the spirit of
Elijah is upon the people. though they
know it not. Family records have been
collected at great expense in some instan-
ces, and the labor has been arduous;
these records are of great value to our
people who are engaged in this work for
the dead. Many of those who have em-
braced the Gospel have been converted
through this one principle, that they
could do a vicarious work for those who
had died without a knowledge of the true
Gospel. Without our friends who have
passed away and not received the ordin-
ces of the Gospel, we could not be hap-
py. This is one of the most interesting
and astonishing principles revealed
through Joseph Smith, and I bear my
testimony to you that he was a prophet
of God, no man could have accomplished
what he did in so short a time except
through the divine teachings. If you
were to study Mormonism, the entire sub-
ject, you would see how much it contains
and one must acknowjedge, even though
prejudiced, that it is “a marvel and a
wonder.”
	Having said so much about the Gospel
and its principles, I desire now to tell
you of woman’s organized work in the
Church.
	The Relief Society, now incorporated
as the National Woman’s Relief Society
is, as you will know by its name, a chari-
table and philanthropic organization to
care for the needy, the sick, and unfor-
tunate, to minister spiritual consolation,
look after the morals of the community as
well and in a certain sense save souls.
	This great society has been and is a
wonderful power for good. more than I
can possibly tell you in a brief sketch.
It has been educational in the best sense
of the term to many thousands of women
gathered from different parts of the
world. It is this society that is affiliated
with the National Council of Women of
the United States. It has branches
wherever there are members of our
Church. It numbers more than 30,000
women, and is divided and subdivided in
such a way that it is comparatively easy
to reach all the members when necess-
sary. This Society was organized by
Joseph Smith himself in Nauvoo, Illinois,
March 17, 1842. We celebrated our jubi-
lee on the same date, 1892, all over the
world; that is in Europe and the islands
of the sea, Australia, Tasmania, New
South Wales, New Zealand, the Sand-
wich Islands, and also in Canada, and
Mexico as well as the United States. The
Society owns land, houses, granaries full
of wheat, and is not behind in spiritual
matters, faith is one of the foundation
principles of our religion, and we believe
in healing by the laying on of hands. The
sick are often healed by the administra-
tion of the sisters, but we take none of the
glory to ourselves, but give the Lord the
glory. This Society is presided over at
the head by five general officers and a
board of twenty-three women, including
the general officers. The officers are a
General President, two Vice-presidents, a
General Secretary and a General Treas-
urer. The society is divided into what
we term “stakes” an ecclesiastical term,
of these there are fifty-five, which also
have officers corresponding to the general
officers; besides these, there are missions
such as the branches on the islands and

[Column 3]
in foreign countries. In the stakes al-
luded to, there are organized branches
that have a similar board of officers, also
teachers who make regular house to
house visits. In this way, each society:
large or small, is aware of the condition
and circumstances of all in local districts.
These stakes are also visited at stated
times by members of the General Board,
and missionaries duly appointed.
	The young women also have an organ-
ization called the Young Ladies’ National
Mutual Improvement Association, also
affiliated with the National Council, which
is more for intellectual, moral and spirit-
ual development. Their work is broad
and extensive and far-reaching. It enters
into all the avenues of life, including
the home. The young men have a simi-
lar organization, and these two associa-
tions meet conjointly at regular intervals,
	Another large organization of our
Church is for children, both boys and
girls under fourteen years or thereabouts.
It is called the Primary Association. It is
much of it religious work, yet manners
and morals form a great part of the
teaching.
	Besides these, we have the Sunday
Schools, the public schools, high schools
and kindergartens, academies, colleges
and universities of learning.
	As you undoubtedly know, we have
women’s clubs, woman suffrage organ-
izations and Republican and Democratic
clubs and associations, and we are divided
on party lines like other people, both
Mormon and Gentile.
	Perhaps you will say after all that I
have not given a straightforward answer
to your question. I have endeavored to
have you understand what Mormonism
is, and how it appeals to me. Mormon
women are the happiest women in the
world, taken as a whole. I know them
intimately, in their homes, in their organ-
izations, in politics, in religion. We have
more actual freedom than most other
women, we are a very independent body
of women, we vote, we attend political
primaries and conventions and take part
in them, we have helped to make this
country, (some of us who were sort of
pioneers,) and we feel as if it belonged
to us, we are home-makers, we be-
lieve in homes, we are some of us col-
onizers, our young people marry and go
out into new lands, north and south and
bnild up new settlements somewhat as we
did when we came here, only they are
better supplied with what is needed.
	We have been and are trying to estab-
lish such institutions, educational, civil
and religious as will be a credit to our
great country. We are a patriotic peo-
ple. The Constitution of our country
and the Declaration of Independence are
sacred instruments to us. We have here
a society of the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion, and Daughters of the American
Revolution. There is a large number of
our people who are descendents of the
New England Puritans (myself among the
number). Joseph Smith, Brigham Young
Heber C. Kimball, and other Apostles
were of this lineage, born in Vermont.
Many other leaders of the Church were
born in other New England States, Wil-
ford Woodruff, President of the Church
at the time of the famous manifesto, pro-
hibiting the practice of plural marriage,
was from Connecticut. My husband,
Daniel H. Wells, was born in Trenton,


[Column 1]
New York, but of Puritan parentage.
Joseph F. Smith, the present President
of the Church, was born in Far West,
Missouri, while his father was in prison
for his religion, at the time of the terrible
persecution of the Saints when they were
driven at the peril of their lives into
Illinois. His father, Hyrum Smith, was
an older brother of Joseph Smith, and
was martyred hy his side, June 27, 1844,
in Carthage jail, Illinois. This may be
beside the subject, but my aim is to show
you who the Mormon people are, among
whom my lot is cast.
	I have known all the principal men and
women of the Church since 1843. I
knew Brigham Young intimately and all
his large family, have been closely asso-
ciated with them, and wish to say that he
was a noble, upright and honorable man,
a great leader a pioneer, knew how to
win the hearts of the people, lovely in his
family to wives and children. My hus-
band was his Counselor in the Church for
many years, until the death of Brigham
Young.
	I have traveled among this people and
have represented the women in Suffrage
Conventions and other assemblies of
women in the East, and in Washington
many times, have presented memorials in
behalf of ‘‘Mormon” women to members
of Congress, and Presidents of the United
States. I know whereof I speak when it
comes to “Mormon” women. I have pub-
lished the Woman’s Exponent for consid-
erably more than a quarter of a century,
and during that time have met and con-
versed with possibly thousands of people,
not of our faith; so that I know some-
thing of the women of the world, as well
as of the men. My work has been mostly
with women, except my political work,
and my great desire is and has been to
help women. As the General Secretary
of the National Woman’s Relief Society,
I have a grand opportunity of helpfulness
to women. I love my work and only
wish it were possible to do more. I stand
for the higher advancement of woman
the world over, for everything that will
better her condition, mentally, morally,
spiritually, temporally. I am aware of
the awakening of women the world over,
and I know its significance. Woman will
be redeemed from bondage, but she must
be taught how to help herself. This is
indeed the woman’s age, and I honor the
brave and noble women who have taken
the lead for the enfranchisement and
progress and higher education of women.
I know many of them personally.
	We have in our Church some of the
grandest types of women the world has
ever known. The president of our great
organizations, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
President of the National Woman’s Relief
Society, Mrs. Mary Isabella Horne, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, all these women are
over eighty, active and energetic, spirit-
ually and temporally. Mrs. Elmina S.
Taylor, president of the Y. L. N. M. I.
A., numbering 25,000 young ladies, Mrs.
Louie Felt, president of the Primary

[Column 2]
Association of 50,000 children, and these
are but a few of the women of our Church
(we know many hundreds) who stand for
purity, for truth and righteousness. The
women of the past whose names appeal
to me, who have endured the severe
trials and persecutions rise up before me
when I think of them, and I see how they
developed the most admirable traits of
character while passing through such ter-
rible ordeals, driven from their homes,
wanderers in the wilderness without food
or shelter, for the sake of their religious
faith. I speak their names with rever-
ence. There are many heroines in the
“Mormon” Church whose names will ring
down the ages. Their faith in God is as
strong as the everlasting hills, that can-
not be moved. They are self-sacrificing
and reverent women. They are trying to
live by the Golden Rule.
	Respectfully submitted,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.
Feb., 1903.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE U. W. PRESS CLUB.

From October 31, 1901 to October 31, 1906,
	with a brief history of the first decade.
	Lydia D. Alder historian.

	Mrs. E. B. Wells came in as Harriet
Martineau, the English writer of works
upon political economy, and others re-
markable for a Woman in that day; her
costume was of the finest black silk
velvet, such as she had heard her mother
say was worn at that period, for her moth-
er lived in the same period as Miss
Harriet Martineau.
	Next came Mrs. Lizzie S. Wilcox, who
gave the most humorous representation
of all, and strange to state though it was
so well done, the classical scholars of
modern date were not able to guess. She
had the tailor’s goose, patches in profu-
sion and wore a man’s coat, sat at the
table not exactly tailor-fashion, however,
and the fun she provoked was quite ex-
hilarating, as Sartor Resartus.
	After delicate refreshments were served
and music and chatting had charmed the
happy throng the Club evening of 1897
ended, amid this tastefully decorated
scene of autumn flowers. Under date of
May 11th, 1899, the Club discussed, and
entered into the brightness and better-
ment of the public schools, as an incen-
tive to the development of our children.
“The Kindergarten” was discussed and
approved for the schools, and the Club
was pledged to aid in this new feature in
our schools.
	Among the distinguished people enter-
tained by the Club, during its first de-
cade, are Miss Phebe Cousins, suffragist
also Miss Helen Ring, F. Marion Craw-
ford, Countess of Wachtmeister, who
spoke on Theosophy; Miss Elizabeth
Yates of Maine, just returned from China,
and others.
	The Club, during its first decade, kept

[Column 2]
abreast of the times. World questions
have been discussed, and world events
considered. Especially the trend of
events has been closely watched. Origi-
nal work of its members has improved,
both in poetry and literature. A notable
event of the first decade was the publi-
cation of the work “Musings and Mem-
ories” by the Club’s founder, Mrs. E. B.
Wells. For delicacy of thought and
touch of imagination it is the peer of any-
thing of its kind published in Utah, and
it is a book that will live, ever giving
pleasure to the reader. A little booklet,
“The Mormon Tabernacle Choir in Cali- 
fornia,” in verse, was issued by Lydia D.
Alder. In it we have a breath of Cali-
fornia, the sunny land of flowers and gold,
and an account of the choir’s triumphal
visit to that land in 1896.

	HISTORY OF FIVE YEARS.
	The tenth annual gathering, was unique 
and really bewildering, for we found our-
selves on this occasion among the ladies
of the White house, the first ladies of the 
land.
	Entertained by the retiring president,
Mrs. C. C. R. Wells, the members were
dressed in costume, each representing
some lady of the White House, each giv-
ing a short sketch of the lady represented.
Some choice musical selections were
played, and Mrs. Lydia D. Alder read a 
history of the club covering in brief its
first decade.
	Mrs. F. S. Richards wore the costume
of Martha Washington previous to her
marriage to General George Washington.
Mrs. Doolan, Martha Washington at fifty-
seven years; E. B. Wells, Abigail Adams;
Mrs. C. C. R. Wells, Mrs. Hayes; Mrs,
John McVicker, Mrs. Fillmore; Mrs. E-
Jenson, Martha Pattin; Mrs. Margaret
Caine, Mrs. John Quincy Adams; Miss
Neff, Letitia C. Tyler; Mrs. Lucy A.
Clark, Mrs. Andrew Johnson; Mrs. Grace
Anderson, Mrs. Ulysses S. Grant; Dr.
Romania B. Pratt, Martha Jefferson
Randolph; Mrs. Lydia D. Alder, Mrs.
Andrew Johnson; Mrs. Ella Hyde, Mrs.
Garfield; Mrs. Lizzie Shipp, Mrs. McKin-
ley.
	The officers elected at this meeting
were: President, Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
First Vice President, Mrs. Ella W. Hyde;
Second Vice-President, Mrs. Grace L. 
Anderson; Treasurer, Mrs. R. H. Doolan;
Recording secretary, Emma H. Jenson
Corresponding Secretary, Ellis R. Shipp.
	The death of Mrs. Phebe C. Young, a
talented and valued member of the club,
occurred in December, 1901.
	At the November meeting Mrs. Anna
C. Widtsoe was received as a member of 
the club. At this meeting President Mrs.
Alder spoke of the death of Mrs. Sarah
Carmichael Williams, who for thirty
years had been out of her mind. Paid a
high tribute to her wonderful gift of
poetry, and spoke of the sad ending of 
such a brilliant, gifted writer. Mrs. E.
B. Wells also spoke ot the dead poetess.
	She was attired in the richest black
velvet, with real lace collar and cuffs,
as she laid in a casket of deepest black, a
fleshy, portly woman of over sixty years.
“Who are these arrayed in white?” how
vividly the words come to mind, here 
before the pall of death!
		(To be Continued.)


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
as much as possible for your money. TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol 36.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1908.  [MID-WINTER NUMBER.]			No. 7.


CONTENTS.
										PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions................Emmeline B. Wells		49
Letter from California..Sarah Jenne Cannon		51
A Woman's Testimony..Mary Ann Nickerson		51
Relief Society Reports:—Oneida Stake.......		50
	Interesting Conference in Arizona.......		55
	Morgan Stake—Alpine Stake...............		55
In Memoriam..........................Nellie Becraft		52
Floating Down the Rhine...........................
	...........................Romania B. Penrose		53
In Memoriam.............................................		55
Resolutions of Respect.................................		55
Notes and News...........................................		56
Editorial:—An Artistic Booklet—Relief So-
	ciety Annual Day—The Jubilee Box...		52
	Jottings.............................................		52
	Editorial Note....................................		55
Poetry:—Rays..................................E. R. S.		49
	The Things That Count..Clarence Urmy	50
	To Aunt Em............Josephine Spencer		51


RAYS.
One single ray this Sabbath day
Across my dreary pathway fell.
It passed away in shadows grey
Before its glory I could tell.
So many days unto my gaze
The sky but cloud and mist hath shown,
Enwrapping earth in dark’ning haze—
Ah! even thought hath sombre grown.

’Tis hard to bear so small a share
Of life's great joys and sunny things,
To be oppressed with doubt and care,
While pleasures seem to flit on wings;
To yearn for power to learn each hour
Some useful lesson for this life,
While fame and wealth on others shower,
Without so much of weary strife.

’Tis sad to rove away from love,
Through what it seems fates stern decree,
To hear no more as oft before
Sweet frindship’s voices calling me
To feel the bliss of loving kiss
Upon my aching, throbbing brow—
The clasp of hands—Oh how I miss
A soothing presence with me now.

Yet while I pray for strength this day— 
Just as that beaming sunbeam fell: 
A brilliant ray lights up my way
The power of our God to tell;
A cheering thought by angels brought
Makes clear the troubled turbid stream,
A blessed truth divinely taught—
I know it is no fleeting dream!
 
For just so sure as I endure
In patience—cease to cry aloud—
My Father’s promises most pure
Dispels the fog, removes each cloud,
True joys reveal, which make me feel
That all I bear is grand and just;
Faith’s, bursting ray He will reveal,
Oh blessed balm of hope and trust!
							E. R. S<hipp>


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	To begin a series of remembrances of
eminent women, who have been conspicuous
in Church history, one must first mention
Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. This article is not to be life sketches
but, as stated, only personalities from the
writer’s point of view. That Lucy Smith

[Column 2]
was a strong character is self-evident from
her own picture. She was everywhere rec-
ognized among the Saints as a remarkable
personage. A woman whose soul shone out
of her eyes, and who uttered wise sayings.
It was considered a privilege to call upon
her, and one felt in her presence a sort of
unusual reverence. To me she seemed what 
she really was, the mother of great men.
She possessed a very good gift of language
to express her ideas, and did not hesitate to
speak somewhat authoritatively. The peo-
ple paid her homage wherever she went and
quoted her wise sayings. She impressed me
as a woman of great power and force of
character. She seemed to be by nature en-
dowed with the rare gifts of prophecy, bless-
ing the sisters and healing the sick, as
well as giving spiritual comfort and conso-
lation to the sorrowing and afflicted. Lucy
Smith was born in Gilson, Cheshire Co.,
New Hampshire, July 8, 1776, and died in
Nauvoo, Illinois, May 5, 1855.
	The wife of the Prophet Joseph must be
next in order of early Church women. She
was a woman of great prominence among
the people: large and well proportioned, of
splendid physique, dark complexion, with
piercing eyes that seemingly looked one
through; noble in appearance and bearing
and certainly favored of the Lord, who called
upon her to prepare the first Hymn Book of
the Latter-day Saints, and by revelation
styled her the “Elect Lady.”
	Sister Emma was benevolent and hospit-
able; she drew around her a large circle of
friends, who were like good comrades. She
was motherly in her nature to young people,
always had a houseful to entertain or be en-
tertained. She was very high-spirited and
the brethren and sisters paid her great re-
spect. Emma was a great solace to her hus-
band in all his persecutions and the severe
ordeals through which he passed; she was
always ready to encourage and comfort him,
devoted to his interests, and was constantly
by him whenever it was possible. She was
a queen in her home, so to speak, and be-
loved by the people, who were many of them
indebted to her for favors and kindnesses.
	Emma Smith was fond of horses and
could manage them well in riding or driv-
ing. Many can recall seeing her mounted
on horseback beside her husband in military
parade and a grander couple could nowhere
be found. She always dressed becomingly,
and a riding costume showed off her shapely
figure to the best advantage. She was a
woman of commanding presence and in her
palmy days, a brilliant conversationalist.
Born in Harmony, Susquehanna, Co., Penn.,
July 10, 1804; died in Nauvoo, Illinois, April
30, 1879.
	It is difficult to choose of many great
women who should be mentioned next, but
to me it seems most in keeping with the
idea I have in writing this series, to take
Elizabeth Ann Whitney. She, too, like
Lucy and Emma Smith, stands somewhat
aloof from many grand woman of her day,
because of her great spirituality and attrac-
tive personality, a woman possessed of rare
charms in voice and manner. A natural
lady with the intuition and tactfulness that

[Column 3]
surpass accomplishments or adornments of
person. Sister Whitney was a notable char-
acter in Church affairs, a woman who in-
spired confidence, and both brethren and
sisters came to her for counsel and com-
fort.
	In the days of Kirtland she gave much
to the poorer Saints in such a delicate way
as not to offend the most sensitive. She
was intimately associated with Sister
Emma, of whom she always spoke in the
highest terms of praise for her good works.
	Sister Whitney excelled in singing the
songs of Zion, her voice was full of melody,
rich in tone, and she warbled like a bird
on the high notes.
	She was frequently alluded to by her
friends in the early days, as the “Mormon”
nightingale; her voice was sweet and tender
and true, exquisitely so, and though not a
woman of style and fashion, she was a
graceful dancer of the old-type, and a
woman who shone in a ball room or large
gathering of what is termed the best society;
and was never at a loss or ill at ease in any
company; at all times womanly and attrac-
tive, what she did and what she said was
the “proper” thing, A woman who could
grace a lowly cottage or a splendid man-
sion, yet spiritual in the finest sense of the
word and in so beautiful a way that it char-
acterized her whole life and shed around
her a radiant atmosphere of love and peace.
Elizabeth Ann Whitney was born in Derby,
New Haven Co., Conn., December 26, 1800.
Died in Salt Lake City, Utah, February 1,
1882.
	The names of two or three great women
are often associated together, and in early
days in Utah, Sister Whitney and Sister
Eliza were spoken of almost unavoidably, as
it were, in the same breath; yet they were
very unlike, Sister Eliza Roxie Snow was a
most remarkable character, as were many of
the pioneer women in the Church of Latter-
day Saints, but she was something more
than even that. She was a woman of fine edu-
cation and attainments intellectually, and
gifted in various ways with unusual ability.
A very pattern of neatness and order in all
pertaining to herself and her work,one of the
“old school” of proper manners and behav-
ior.
	Everything she did was of the best, wheth-
er it was braiding straw, making lace, em-
broidering lace, muslin or silk, sewing, knit-
ting and mending, all must be done to per-
fection, and she always used the finest ma-
terial possible to procure. Punctuality was
one of her virtues, and she insisted upon it
in others; industrious beyond her physical
strength, and economical in all matters,
whether of money, time or means; she was a
very early riser, often remarking, “one hour
in the morning is worth two in the evening.”
Sister Eliza was the Puritan type in the ex-
treme; religious in temperament and by in-
heritance. No half-way measures, “Hew
to the line and to the plummet” with her
—an old saying originated from the script-
ure quotation, “Judgment also will I lay to
the line and righteousness to the plummet”
(Isaiah 28, 17). Her endurance of fatigue
in traveling, or of all kinds of hardship was


[Column 1]
wonderful, her courage in danger and passing
through trials and difficulties, never wavered,
no matter how insurmmountable the obsta-
cles to be overcome might appear; she was
always equal to every emergency whatever
the occasion called for or required.
	Sister Eliza was so highly gifted in poetic
verse and composition, her language so elo-
quent, and subjects so lofty, that she deserv-
edly won the beautiful title of “Zion’s Poe-
less,” and as such stands pre-eminent among
this people. Her poetic style has been said
to be Hebraic, and she herself was not un-
like the Jewish type in appearance. She
possessed an innate refinement, and delicacy
of feeling and gentility of manner that fitted
her for any society even among royalty: in
conversation she chose the loftiest themes
when she was in company with congenial
spirits who loved sacred subjects.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow was a born leader,
and one might say a general, a commander,
and was also a very efficient organizer of
which her work along those lines is proof
positive and needs no verifying, Her extra-
ordinary powers and strength of character
and firmly established convictions of the
principles of the Gospel gave her the confi-
dence and assurance, if one may use the
term, to act independently in places, and at
times, when other women would have falter-
ed or hesitated to undertake such heroic ef-
forts. That she was a woman of destiny the
writer has no doubt. Her great reverence for
the priesthood and absolute devotion to the
principles of the Everlasting Gospel amount-
ed to a consecration of all her time, talents,
and life itself upon the altar of her faith.
	Born in Becket Berkshire Co., Mass.,
Jan. 21, 1804. Died in Salt Lake City,
Utah, December 5, 1887.
	One more woman, whose name was once
known throughout all Israel, and who in all
the womanly qualities that make up the sum
of human happiness in home life and who
should be mentioned, among the very first
of the grand and noble sisterhood of early
days in the Church, is Vilate Murray Kim-
ball. She was a woman primarily devoted
to home and its best interests, but with a
heart large and tender enough to feel for the
woes of all within the sphere of her activi-
ities; a woman of unbounded charity, not
only for the needy and unfortunate, but for
the weak and erring. She never failed to
minister to the distressed whether temporal
or spiritual help was needed, and seemingly
she always had the necessary supplies. She
was in every sense of the word the “Lady
Bountiful.” Her intense sympathy with all
suffering and compassion for the unfortun-
ate was in constant exercise; and the calls
made upon her time and strength as well as
to furnish actual provision in times of scar-
city, can never be estimated, even by those
who knew her best. She was so modest
and discreet withal, that only those who were
near her, ever comprehended, the almost
superhuman efforts she made to alleviate
distress, and comfort the sorrowing and
broken hearted, especially those bereft of
loved ones, widows and orphan children.
	Sister Vilate Kimball was a true mother
in Israel in its broadest and best sense. She
was intensely devotional and religious in
character, and her faith was founded upon
“the rock of ages.” Naturally a woman
gifted intellectually, but though she was
poetic in temperament and sentimental, her
life was too full of activity in the routine of
family and friends, as well as those who
clung to her for the positive needs of every-

[Column 2]
day life, that she had no moments to herself
even to spare for what her nature craved. Her
letters to her husband, Heber C. Kimball,
when away from home are rich in the lang-
uage of the heart and reveal the gift of poesy,
latent in her soul.
	Thinking of “Aunt Vilate” as I knew her
should describe her as a bearer of burdens,
laden down with the burdens of others.
	Sister Vilate Kimball was beautiful, tall
and graceful, with fair complexion and fine
hair that lay in soft waves about her fore-
head giving a touch of elegance to her shape-
ly head. She fed the hungry, she clothed
the needy, she comforted her husband in all
his trials throughout his long public career.
A model, housekeeper and homemaker, a
loyal friend to women, ready to hear their
grievances and keep sacredly their confiden-
ces. She was a strength to the daughters of
Zion in her own household, and elsewhere.
If of any woman we may use the saying of
Solomon in Proverbs xxxi. chapter and 29th
verse we may say it of Vilate Murray Kim-
ball “Many daughters haye done virtuously
but thou excellest them all.”
	Born in Florida, Montgomery Co., New
York, June 1, 1806. Died in Salt Lake City,
October 22, 1867.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE THINGS THAT COUNT.
BY CLARENCE URMY.

Not what we have, but what we use;
Not what we see, but what we choose—
These are the things that mar or bless
The sum of human happiness.

The things near by, not things afar:
Not what we seem, but what we are—
These are the things that make or break,
That gives the heart its joy or ache.

Not what seems fair, but what is true;
Not what we dream, but good we do—
These are the things that shine like gems,
Like stars, in Fortune’s diadems.

Not as we take, but as we give;
Not as we pray, but as we live—
These are the things that make for peace,
Both now and after Time shall cease.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of Oneida Stake
convened Nov. 2, 1907, at Preston. First
session was an officer’s meeting. Devotion-
al exercises were held with the priesthood
and other Stake officers. When convened
for regular work President Louisa B. Ben-
son presided.
	First Counselor Hannah Mickleson re-
ported the General Relief Society Confer-
ence held in Salt Lake October 3, 1907.
	Local officers were asked to report briefly
on Unity and Mothers’ Work and means
adopted to replenish treasuries.
	Franklin ward had sent a written report
showing unity, success in Mother’s Work,
plenty of means on hand, by donations.
	Clifton reported meetings held monthly,
not much accomplished yet in Mother’s
Work, hoped from now on to have better
success. A fair had been held to remuner-
ate the treasury, unity existed. Cedar-
ville meetings had not been held reg-
ularly—otherwise doing well, donations for
sufficient means.
	Cherryville reported as just having been
organized.
	Fairview sisters were united, much good
resulting from Mothers’ Work, plenty of

[Column 2]
means on hand, but contemplated a bazar
for the winter Glendale reported unity and
love, Mother’s Work getting well started,
means gathered by donation. Mapleton, no
officers present prepared to report. Mink
Creek reported good being accomplished in
Mother’s Work, unity existing and means
being raised by a fair, also by donation.
Oxford reported unity, means gathered by
donation, had also held a fair, Mothers’
Work somewhat neglected but doing better
at present. Preston first ward reported
unity, means gathered by donation, Moth-
ers’ Work accomplishing much good, attend-
ance not as good as usual.
	Preston third and fourth wards gave simi-
lar reports. Riverdale reported that their
work was not as good as they would like.
Rule had been adopted for each one to do-
nate 10cts at the close of meeting held first
week in each month.
	Swan Lake had just been reorganized.
	Treasureton reported few in number but
good work being done; no poor; had pur-
chased sacrament service and carpet for
meeting house.
	Weston not fully organized due to death,
unity existed, Mothers’ Work doing much
good, means gathered by donation, quilts on
hand. Whitney reported unity, success in
Mothers’ Work, means gathered by dona-
tion.
	Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson gave a talk
on Morality and the care of children, which
was much enjoyed by all.
	Instructions regarding teachers and the
use of means were given by President Ben-
son, also asked secretaries to be prompt with
their reports.
	Afternoon session, President Louisa B.
Benson presiding. Singing by Fairview
choir. Prayer, singing and other exercises.
	The Relief Society Stake report was given
by President Benson. All parts fully organ-
zed, excepting Weston, where death had
claimed the President, but work was being
well cared for. Much good was being done
by the several organizations and stake offic-
ers were encouraged at all being willing to
respond to every call, although better work
was still hoped for.
	A talk on what it takes to make a good
Relief Society was given by Esther Rogers,
president of first ward of Preston. Solo “I’ll
do what you want me to do, dear Lord,”
Serge B. Benson.
	Last poem of Brother H. W. Naisbitt en-
titled “Mother,” read from the Exponent by
Mrs. Junius Jensen. Sister Mary Hawkes
spoke on the power of Relief Society work,
emphasizing Mothers’ Work. A sketch of
the life of Harriet Henderson of Clifton was
read by the secretary. A quartette was then
rendered by Patterson, Griffith and Co.,
President Parkinson addressed the confer-
ence on the the subject of “Motherhood.”
Encouraged and blessed the mothers. In-
strumental music George Dalley,
	A volume of blessings given by President
Bathsheba Smith to her Relief Society sis-
ters was read by the secretary.
	Choir and congregation sang “Guide us, 
O Thou Great Jehovah.” Conference ad-
journed for six months. Benediction Presi-
dent Chas. D. Goslind.
				LINDA N. BENSON, Rec. Sec.


The French Parliament considered the
question of woman suffrage on February 4th.
It is reported that 50,000 women had peti-
tioned for the ballot.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TQ AUNT EM.
There’s a poet who tells in delectable verse
Of the things we might part with and not be the
	worse
For the missing—his list, running through the
	whole range
Of pleasures and treasures of travels and change,
To end with a neat little rhyme of repining, 
That whatever we part with—it can’t be our din-
	ing.
And his thought gave me thought inspiration to-
	day,
For the tribute we’ve gathered together to pay,
To our dear guest of honor, with heart and with
	lip,
In the viands we eat and the liquids we sip.

But not dining nor wining is that I must choose,
As the object we’d miss most, if once we should
	lose,
Nor of treasures of art, nor of gold, nor of gem,—
Its name in our hearts is just known as “Aunt
	Em.”
For who in the years that have passed o’er us all
Cannot in their vista her image recall?
Through scenes that have gladdened or saddened
	the days
Since the valley first dawned on the pioneers’
	gaze
Through all their privation and hardship her
	hand
Was foremost to toil for the good of the land;
In the struggle for woman’s high honor alway
Her name as a beacon has lighted the way.

And over the murk of the battle has hung
Framed in laurels of pen, and of deed and of
	tongue.
And not only the pathway of note and renown
Her footsteps have trodden—but better adown
The still paths of sympathy sewn with sore hearts,
They have wandered, full oft giving balm to their
	smarts.
While her word has met young aspiration’s meek
	voicing
With hope, inspiration and meed of rejoicing;
There are few of us here but have owed her some
	measure,
Of hope, help or praise in our duty or pleasure.

So I say in the lilt of the poet I borrow
(And I hope his dark shade may not brood here
	to sorrow,
At the poor imitation I make of his ditty)
That I cannot conceive how our state or our city,
Our banquet halls, offices, homes or the street—
Could ever seem quite to our senses complete.
Could we not on the cheering reflection rely.
That somewhere or other Aunt Em we should
	spy!
And since, as we know, she is barely nineteen,
For years yet to come she will move in the
	scene—
Three keen-witted years having chalked out the
	day
Of her birth; that among us she longer might
	stay.

So here’s to Aunt Em—with the hearts of the
	Club
In the liquid we drink when our glasses we rub.
May the leap-years increase,—and the almanac
	keep
A trick up its sleeve, that old Time may not reap
Her life with its scythe, till he reaches the end
Of his flight—and in all of the years she may
	spend
May the Lord hold her fast in a loving caress
As we do—that’s one meaning, you know, of the
	“Press.”
					JOSEPNINE SPENCER,
				(republished from Feb. 1907).


[Column 1]
		LETTER FROM CALIFORNIA.

						Feb. 19, 1908.
My Dear Aunt Em Wells:

	If you have had time to think of me at all
you have probably wondered why I have
not written according to promise. As you

[Column 2]
know, my trip here was not altogether for
sight-seeing, and pleasure; though my
friends wish me to have a good time and
are doing all they can to have me enjoy
myself. It rained most of the time for three
weeks, but for a week now the weather has
been delightful. Mrs. Garnett, a lady I
met three years ago, took me to the Presi-
dia the other day. We went to the old
fortress built on the point, where the waters
of the Pacific and the bay meet. It was
indeed a grand sight, one never to be for-
gotten. It was the Golden Gate where the
fleet will pass through. There is a beauti-
ful reservation of sixteen hundred acres. My
friend asked me how far I thought we had
walked. I told her about a hundred miles.
We kept seeing things that were only a little
farther, you know. Another friend, a Mrs.
Eddy, took me to Golden Gate Park last
week. I enjoyed crossing the Bay, as I al-
ways do, very much indeed. The gulls
seem to have multiplied wonderfully since
my last visit. We took a car on the other
side and went on California St. through part
of the earthquake district, We passed the
place where once stood the elegant home of
Mrs. Stanford. The foundation remains
and some shrubbery and stone steps, that is
all. It reminded me of a deserted cemetery.
Many places we passed we saw tall chim-
neys standing, and the stone steps that once
led up to some grand mansion. As we were
on the cars we only caught a glimpse of
what there was to see. But my friend
pointed out the places of interest and is a
good hand to take charge of such a trip.
We went to the museum and conservatory.
The lawns are very beautiful, though only a
few months ago many refugees camped
there. No place in the park can you see the
unsightly sign “Keep off the grass.” We
had lunch on the part called the children’s
playground. Going back to the ferry we
took another street. I do not think the
papers ever told a tenth as bad as it really
was, for now, after two years and the won-
derful amount of work that has been done,
it looks dreadful. And I have heard more
of that terrible calamity than I ever saw in
the papers. Of course I had to go to the
Cliff house (or where it used to be) and
take a fond look at the ocean, Dear Sister
Sumner took me over to Oakland to church
once and to Relief Society once. Consider-
ing the members of the society, there was a
better attendance than at the general meet-
ing. There was a Mrs. Douglas at the soci-
ety meeting. She is a member of the re-
organized church, and I imagine a very
prominent one too. She called us sisters and
thinks it will not be long till we are united
with them. She bore a strong testimony to
the mission of Joseph Smith and the Book
of Mormon, and rejoices that the Smiths
have come to their own. She is thankful
that Joseph F. is at the head. I also bore
my testimony to the great work and to the
wise leaders the Church has always had.
Considering everything, the society is doing
as well as we could expect. Well I shall
have to stop sometime, and it might as well
be now. Give my love to Sister Smith and
the members of the board who are with you.

		Yours with much love,
				SARAH JENNE CANNON.

	P. S. I am ashamed of this letter, but
the neighbors on each side of me are play-
ing on different instruments and if I wait it
is not likely to be better.
							JENNE.


A WOMAN'S TESTIMONY.
Salina, Utah.
	Seeing a piece in the Exponent that asked
for the names of any who belonged to the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, will say that I be-
longed to that society.
	The first meeting I attended the prophet
was present and talked to us. He told us
what to do. We were not only to look after
the poor but he wanted us to canvas every
house for there was sin and false teaching
in our midst. “For this is a day of trial
and we shall be tried as gold is tried seven
times in the fire.”
	There was John C. Bennett and Law and
the Higbees and others all trying to lead the
youth away, and we found it so. They
were holding secret meetings in all parts of
the city, saying it was the prophet’s teach-
ings.
	When I think of being there in those days
I cannot believe myself. Brother Joseph,
the prophet, was tried to the quick. He
taught us to look after the sick, and wanted
the poor looked after, and if they were able
to work, to give them work and pay them
for it, and not buy material and make it up
for them, if they were able to do the
work themselves. He said the poor we
will always have with us and it was not our
business to know how they came to be poor.
We were told to do our duties and we would
be blessed. He said it was no charity to do
for those who could do for themselves. We
were not to neglect the sick or any one in
distress.
	The prophet was a noble-minded man. I
would know his voice in the hour of mid-
night. I was at the last public meeting
that he ever preached and the rain poured
down, He said if it rained pitchforks, tines
downward he would preach, his enemies had
said that he should never preach again, and
he wanted to make them false prophets.
This meeting was held in a grove a few days
before his death.
	I was one of the sick that the prophet
visited on the banks of the river.
	I was one of the women in the battle of
Nauvoo. I passed through many scenes,
and still I am here for a wise purpose, I
hope. I want to do all the good I can and
as little harm as possible.
	I was born in Pennsylvania Sept. 5th,
1822. Married to Levi Nickersen May 10th,
1840, in Nauvoo. Came to Utah in 1850.
	In 1852 my husband was called on a mis-
sion. His name was overlooked. He went
to the president’s office aud was told if the
boys who went with the mail were going, he
(my husband) could go, but he could not
go alone. On the first of November they
started with twenty ponies.
	When they arrived at Sweet Water a bliz-
zard came and scattered their ponies. The
men hunted for their ponies and found
three. During the hunt for the ponies one
of the men got lost. The others hunted for
him, but were unsuccessful, as they were so
badly frozen themselves that they moved on.
When they reached the Bluff their feet were
so badly frozen that the bones were scraped.
My husband was unable to travel, so he
worked in a wagon shop. On December 15,
1853, he was found dead in the shop. He
was born in Pennsylvania, 1814.
	I remain as ever faithful and true to this
work and to this people. I sincerely know
it is true, and bear witness to the same.
May I ever prove faithful, is my prayer.
MARY ANN NICKERSON.


[Column 1]
52										Woman's Exponent

Woman's Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY - FEBRUARY, 1908.


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society or any who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL DAY.

	The seventeenth of March will soon be
here and the Relief Society in all the world
will be celebrating the memorable occasion,
The Sixty-sixth anniversary should be an oc-
casion of much rejoicing and no doubt will
be, The very fact of its being organized
before any such movement for women had
been made anywhere, by any other people
or community should stand out as a way-
mark in favor of the Church of which we
are members. It should demonstrate clear-
ly to all honest hearted people, women
especially, that it was established by divine
revelation. The Prophet Joseph Smith,
without any pattern to follow, called women
and set them apart by authority given him
from the Lord.
	The women of Zion are favored of the
Lord above any women elsewhere, and they
should realize and appreciate it, and culti-
vate the gifts and blessings they are in pos-
session of, and thus seek to magnify their
calling. Think of the consecrated work
given into their hands, to minister to each
other, to edify and instruct, to study the
Bible and other sacred books, to obtain
knowledge through prayer by the aid of the
Holy Spirit.
	Taking the advantages of the work in the
broadest and highest sense, there is no limit
to the attainment of excellence in wisdom
and understanding. The active work of the
teachers in the organizations, is the work
our Satior loved to do when he tabernacled
in the flesh. He ministered to the meek
and lowly, the sick and distressed, in fact,
“He went about doing good.” Our sisters


have this privilege and they have joy in their
labors. They do not spare themselves, they
are unselfish, they are self sacrificing. Their
work cannot be estimated, they are un-
doubtedly fed with the bread of life, and
that buoys them up in times of need when
otherwise their strength might fail them.
	There are no words of commendation or
praise too good or too much for the sisters of
the Relief Society, who do these things in
love and with singleness of heart. Well
might they be called sisters of mercy. It is
ardently desired that this day be kept for
such enjoyment and festivities as seem ap-
propriate and fitting to those who preside.
it is sometimes thought that little has been
accomplished by the society during so many
years, but that is a mistaken idea; hundreds
and thousands have been fed, have been
ministered to in various ways. These acts
of love, deeds of kindness are not apparent
in the same way as building houses and
founding libraries and [-]aving grain, but
these count in the books of the angels, and
cannot we comprehend that our Father who
will not let a sparrow fall without His
notice, knows every little deed of kindness or
even a cup of cold water given in His name
to [-]he suffering ones.
	And so we say again, let all women rejoice
and give thanks on this day, whether in
feasting or in dancing, and remember espec-
ally those who are sick or in sorrow or in
trouble, and those who are kept at home
because of this or that, minister to them,
cheer and comfort them, and thus make
your own happiness more full and com-
plete.


THE JUBILEE BOX.

	Perhaps it is not generally known that
the Relief Society has deposited in the His-
torian’s Offce in this city a Jubilee Box. It
would be well to remind the younger gener-
ation from time to time of the fact, that
they may not let it remain unopened at the
proper date. This box is safely sealed and
is to be opened in April, 1930, by the gen-
eral secretary of the Relief Society. The
box contains poems, miscellaneous papers,
historical manuscripts and pictures, also a
letter addressed to the oldest female de-
scendant then living of the person who pre-
pared the respective package.
	This jubilee box was the original idea of
Sarah M. Kimball, who had been elected
secretary of the General Relief Society June
19, 1880. It will be remembered that al-
though the Jubilee Conference of the Church
was held in April, 1880, yet the Jubilee cele-
bration was on the 24th of July, 1880.
	We are familiar with the particulars con-
cerning the box, as much of the preparatory
work was done in the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT in the old Council House, on the
famous corner of the block where the Dese-
ret News building now stands, and the
writer was one of those who personally
helped with the work. The inspiration,
came to Sister Kimball during the celebra-
tion, or about that time, July, 1880, but
the box was not deposited until April, 1881,
as it took some time to get the matter ready
and have it properly understood.
	There is also a similar box deposited in
Provo by Sister Margaret T. Smoot; that
box contains besides Relief Society matter
the names of each officer and member of
the Primary Associations in Utah County.
This part of the work was done by Sister
Zina Young Williams (now Card) and her


son Sterling Williams. Sister Zina andher
son Sterling may very likely be living in
1930 when the box is to be opened.
	If there are any sisters who see this notice
and recall having prepared a package for the
Jubilee Box, the editor of this paper desires
the name and present address of such per-
sons for publication, and to keep on record
for future use.


JOTTINGS.

	With the withdrawal of winterand opening
of spring, one may look for many changes,
not only atmospheric, but in the political
and commercial elements of society and the
world at large. Already one hears of ru-
mors of the campaigns about to be launched.
There are several great men being talked of
as candidates for the Presidency of the
United States, and there are strong argu-
ments made in print why certain men
should be elected, and yet it would appear
looking all around that the majority of the 
people favor the re-election of Theo-
dore Roosevelt. Those, who admire
his methods and his administration rank
him in ability and fearlessness to Abraham
Lincoln, or his equal in statesmanship. No
doubt there will be great excitement during
the present year, as there has invariably
been heretofore, the year of the presidential
election, both parties are pretty well de-
termined to win, and the people who are
not taking an active part will watch with
great interest. There is every reason to
presume that the government of the United
States will be strong enough to maintain the
position it holds among the nations of the
world even if conditions were to change
somewhat. For some years there has been
a time of general prosperity, and the country
is even now in comparatively good circum-
stances, although there have been a few
exposures brought to light that were un-
pleasant for the participants.
	Let us hope no great calamity may befall
our beloved country, and that the coming
year may be one of plenty and prosperity,
and success for the grand government under
which the people have every right possible
for their permanent happiness. The statis-
tics given of fewer saloons are encourag-
ing in the sense of temperance, and even of
prohibition in many states, and women are
doing brave and heroic work along these
lines of moral reform, even though they
have not yet (only in four states) been
given the ballot.


IN MEMORIAM.
		HARRIET CANFIELD BROWN,

The Angel Death passed through our midst one
		day,
	In quest of noblest soul, whom, he might send
For special purpose to the Father’s throne,
	And lo! he took Aunt Hattie, our dear friend.
Not strange that he should choose so rare a
		gem,
	Not strange the call, “The Lord hath need of
		thee.”
’Twas stranger that she stayed with us so long,
	So good, so pure, so angel-like was she,
A very halo round about her seemed;
	No evil e’er found place within her heart
The slanderer in her presence stood as mute,
	Awed by her power, which was of heaven a
		part.
Of trial, sorrow, persecution sore.
	Full share had she, yet bravely stood the test,
Of battles quiet fought she gave no sign.
	Brave conqueror thou well hast earned thy
		rest.


[Column 1]
	Quietly and peacefully, on December 27,
1907, at 9:10 a. m., the spirit of Sister Har-
riet Canfield Brown took its flight across the
shadowy river to the great beyond.
	It was just such a passing away as was
emblematic of her life, calm, peaceful, tran-
quil. No matter how heavy her cross, “God
willed it so,” and that satisfied her trusting
soul. Bravely she bore her load and accom-
plished her mission, passing thence from
death unto life. Closed now are her eyes,
hushed is her voice, her form will no more
be seen in our midst, but she has left upon
our souls the impress of her nobility of char- 
acter, her loftiness of purpose and her un-
swerving trust in God.

	How nobly, how bravely she toiled,
		How well her work is done;
	Her life, its labors seemed all complete,
		Ere the setting of life’s sun.

	Sister Harriet Brown was born March 9,
1834, at Ossion, N. Y., where her early life
was spent. As a child she was of a gentle,
loving, modest and retiring disposition, and
the same qualities remained with her
throughout her entire life and distinguished
her as a choice and noble spirit, yet withal
her personality was such that evil would be
abashed in her presence. She was always
of a studious nature and loved books far
better than childish sports. Her parents de-
siring to give her that which her whole na-
ture craved, sent her to the Alfred Academy,
N. Y., from which she graduated in July,
1854. Prior to this she had taught school.
	The days spent in this academy must
have been very happy ones as evinced by her
abiding love for her Alma Mater, for she
ever kept in close touch with that institu-
tion.
	But not alone in the satisfaction exper-
ienced through the realization of her fondest
aspirations, was her great happiness found.
The Gospel had been preached in that vicin-
ity, and she, with others of her dear ones 
had received the glad message. Thus was
her soul expanding and drinking to its full-
est of the waters of life. She was baptized
June 17, 1851, thus linking her life with
those of the Latter-day Saints. After grad-
uating she went to Kentucky where she
taught school for several months, but, as is
usual with the true saint, the spirit of gath- 
ering manifested itself and she traveled to
Council Bluffs, teaching school at that place
during the winter of 1855. It was here she
met and loved a man of God, and they two,
whose lives were consecrated to the same
high and holy purpose, were united in mar-
riage, April 13, 1856.
	Then followed the journey across the
plains, with all its attending hardships, test-
ing the faith and endurance of every Saint
who gathered to Zion in those early days.
Arriving in Ogden, her husband was engaged
to teach school, in which vocation she soon
joined, continuing in the same until 1870,
when poor health compelled her resignation.
Three children came to bless their union:
Harriet E., Israel C., and Annis, all of whom
with a faithful and devoted sister, and other
members of the family, are left to cherish
the memory of their honored and sainted
dead.
	Sister Harriet Canfield Brown early iden-
tified herself with the Relief Society, where
her very efficient labors soon brought her
into the front ranks; this, indeed, was work
in full accord with her loving, sympathetic
disposition.
	After the return from the south in 1858,
she was chosen second counselor in the

[Column 2]
Ogden City Relief Society. Next we find
her president of the same, working with the
same diligence to perform her part in the
work of love and charity to which her whole
soul responded.

	How tender she was at the couch of pain,
		How willing her sisters to bless,
	The poor felt her liberal hand in theirs,
		Her works were of righteousness.
	Her counsels were fraught with wisdom,
		Her teachings were full of love,
	Her example will bear fruition
		That will follow her above.

	In 1871, by her own request, with deep
regret, she was permitted to resign her posi-
tion as president, and Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards succeeded her, retaining Sister Hattie,
as she was lovingly called, as her first
counselor, which position she honorably and
faithfully filled until called from us by
death. In 1877 the work was largely in-
creased by separate branches being organized
in each ward of Ogden and Weber Co., and
the complete organization of the Relief
Society of the Weber Stake being effected,
yet although frail in body she exhibited the
same zeal, energy and faithfulness that al-
ways characterized her labors and still
proved herself the wise counselor and val-
ued friend, and when through affliction she
was no longer able to meet with us, her
messages of love were as benedictions to the
sisters.
	Although she shrank from anything of a
public nature, yet she drew around her the
good and pure, both old and young, and
her beautiful life has been an inspiration to
all with whom she came in contact. "To
know her was to love her, and they who
knew her best loved her most.”
	In her death we are all bereaved, but
what must it mean in the quiet home over
which with such queenly grace and dignity
she presided so long: there, as with us her
place is vacant, She has passed the bourne
from whence no traveler ever returns. One
can only pray that with their bereavement
may come its accompanying balm and that
the sweet influence of the holy spirit
may brood over the home hallowed by the
noble dead who have passed its portals in
their flight to the realms of glory.
	At her funeral as in her life there was no
grand display or demonstration; heads were
bowed, tread was muffled, voices subdued
and softened. All were awed by the passing
of a great soul. And when in that silent
city of the dead, her body was lowered into
mother earth,

“Then faith viewed life in that scene of death,
Felt summer’s breeze in the winter’s breath,
Knew the seed in weakness sown that hour,
Hereafter would rise in glory and power,
Changing earth for heaven’s high sphere,
Time’s brief day for Eternity’s year.’’

						NELLIE BECRAFT.

	In behalf of the officers and members of
the Weber Stake R. S..


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
FLOATING DOWN THE RHINE.
The Rhine, the Rhine, the beautiful Rhine.

	Durham House, 295, Edge Lane,
        			Liverpool, England.
					February 1908.
	The broad, deep, placid, blue river of ro-
mance and of most enchanting scenery,
	The shores on either side are dotted with

[Column 2]
towns and villages and castles,many old and
ruined, built in times of long ago, having
each a legend weird, romantic and myster-
ious. Many castles are built on the highest
pinnacle of a mountain, in the most inac-
cessible positions to enable them to with-
stand long sieges from hostile and preda-
tory neighbors. They are huge piles of tur-
reted towers and solid masonry which seem
to bid defiance to time and all men. They
are magnificent, grim and grand. Many are
in a complete state of ruin, through the de-
structive invasion of the French. Some are
inhabited in the safest parts aud all are in-
tensely interesting as landmarks in the his-
tory of a people long since dead. The view
is all too fleeting, sailing down on the bosom
of the lovely river. One desires to stop and
ramble through the deserted halls and ban-
quet rooms and revel in imagination of the
gay and beautiful women and heroic knights
who once trod in pride these wondrous struc-
tures. Renowned towns and villages came
in view at nearly every turn of the frequently
bending river, which has been the birthplace
of some never to be forgotten person or ex-
ploits of some ancient worthies. The river
winds majestically along, washing the feet
of high mountains, precipitous rocks and
rolling hills, for 730 miles down to the North
sea. The middle section for a little over
one hundred miles from Frankfort to Cologne
has the most rugged and mountainous scen-
ery. Many of the steep sides of mountains
and hills are planted to vineyards almost to
their very tops. They have to be terraced
before planting. The breaking up of this
ground has all to be done by hand, for no
animal or plow could work on the steep
places. This utilization of this kind of
ground could not be carried on in Utah,
where every vine has to have a streamlet of
water to it, or it will wither up and die. In
Rhineland every year is not a fruitful one on
account of drouth. A fruitful vintage is
only once in a while. They say the grapes
are not pleasant to eat, only good for wine.
We thought that we would like to taste the
renowned Rhine wine. I had about two
tablespoonfuls poured into my glass and
tasted—ugh—flat vinegar. A spoonful of
good vinegar, water and sugar, like my
mother often gave us in summer time with
our lunch, was much more to my taste. Per-
haps my taste is uncultivated, but they can
have their wine if they like it. This reminds
me of another difference in taste. At the
table where we sampled our wine, sat a fine
old German and his daughter. On a plate
there was some slices of moist, very black
rye bread. The German insisted I taste
this bread, saying it was the finest in the
world. I did, and thought I had taken a
quid of tobacco, it looked, smelled and
tasted like it, although I do not believe I
ever tasted tobacco.
	To describe at any length the scenes,
towns, castles, ruins and bridges noted and
renowned, places of history and interest, as
one passes them sailing down the river,
would make the article entirely too long.
So a short notice and a legend attached will
be all that can be done. We left Frankfort
on the Main and took a train to Biebrech, a
small town where we were to take the boat,
There were two trains leaving about the
same time to this village, one going into it
and the other going on down to the wharf.
Of course we took the wrong one, so we had
to walk, or trot, as we had not much time
to correct our mistake, and catch the boat.
But the walk of little over a mile was
through a fine park in which was a pretty


[Column 1]

old ruin, a hasty glimpse of which repaid us
for our walk. We arrived in time to go on a
boat named “Barbarossa.” It was a fine large
boat and had quite a number a passengers.
We had a book describing points as we came
to them and it kept us busy watching first one
side and then the other, so as not to miss
anything of note.
	Bingen, the chief town, in one of the divi-
ions of Hessland, is of very ancient origin,
was noted in Roman times. A bridge on
one side of it built over the river Nahe,
dates from 13 B. C. Burg Klopp, a castle
built in the center of the town, was built in
the enclosing wall of a Roman fort. The
French invaded the town and nearly de-
stroyed it and also the castle. Every one re-
members the pathetic song of “Bingen on the
Rhine,” in which a dying soldier sends his
last message to his bereaved mother. Pass-
ing Bingen you come in view of an interest-
ing castle, the Mansethurm, built on an
island in the river, but very near the shore.
It is merely a tower to which is attached the
legend that a miser, fearing there might
come a famine, filled the tower with wheat.
The famine did come, and he selfishly shut
himself up in his tower with his wheat and
was deaf to the distress of the people around
him. After a great while the tower was
broken open and it was found that the mice
had eaten up the wheat and the miser too.
	Nearly all of the legends are of the im-
possible, but that very fact and the mystery
veiling them is their principal charm. An-
other turn in the river, and we see a very
fine monument erected to commemorate the
victories of the German people and the rest-
oration of the German empire in 1870-1871.
It is 110 feet high, and the figure “German-
ia,” crowns it. On the substructure, which 
is 80 feet high, are the figures of Emperor
William I, and two hundred contemporary
kings and princes.
	We now come to a large, real castle,
Rheinstein, perched on an impregnable pre-
cipitous rock. Tower rises above tower,
grim, gray and ivy-covered, full of mystery,
and stories of love and sorrow, if the walls
could only speak. It has one legend of false
wooing. The Knight Siegfried von
Rheinstein, a warrior, during one of his pre-
datory excursions, captured a beautiful
maiden named Jutta and married her. He
ceased then his pillaging and carousing. In
time a little girl was born to them and Jutta
died. The little girl was named Gerda, who
grew to be so beautiful that suitors from far
and near sued for her love and hand. Her
heart was won by a neighboring knight
named Kuno von Riechenstein. It was the
custom of the times for young lovers to have
a mediator to conduct their suit, so they
chose Kurt von Ehrenfels, Kuno’s uncle.
But faithless to his nephew, he ingratiated
himself into the good graces of Gerda’s
father and gained his consent for himself.
No entreaty of the betrayed Gerda had any
effect with her father after he had given his
word, especially as the uncle was possessed
of great wealth and her lover of very little.
The wedding day dawned, and the festal
procession neared the Klemenkapelle,
where the marriage ceremony was to take
place, when a swarm of gadflies came out
of the bushes. One of them stung the silver
gray palfry of Gerda and it reared and
dashed out of the procession. Gerda
spurred it on, and the steed flew with her to
Reichenstien, the castle of her lover. Kurt,
the uncle, rode after her, but was thrown in
the pursuit and killed, also her father in try-
ing to stop the run away horse, was hurt, 

[Column 2]
but recovered and gave his blessing to the
lovers.
	The next interesting point is the “Lore-
lei,” a basalt rock rising out of the water
430 feet, almost perpendicularly. The river
here is said to be 75 feet deep—the greatest
depth in the river. It is the only place
where salmon is found. When the river is
low seven stones can be seen above the sur-
face. The legend of them is that they rep-
resent seven maidens, who were fickle and
hard hearted, and had deceived their lovers
and at the curse of the Lorelei were turned
to stone.
	The word Lorelei means in German the
“blustering rock,” or echo rock with us.
Standing below the rock twelve echoes can
be heard resounding from point to point.
Another legend more noted than the above
is that a beautiful (always beautiful) en-
chantress whose wonderful power lay in her
eyes, befooled so many men that she was
ordered shut up in a convent. On her way
there accompanied by a knight, as they
were riding up the Rhine they came to the
high rock. She begged the knight to allow
her to ascend the rock in order to view once
more the castle of her beloved. While gaz-
ing, in the distance she suddenly caught
sight of a ship bearing the colors of her
knight. Then she recognized the returning
loved one standing on the deck. In her
great joy she made a false step and fell
headlong into the deep river and was
drowned. A gale of wind dashed the ship
against the rock and upset it, and thus the
lovers were united in death. Mystery affirms
that from the 13th century a treasure has
been shut up in the rock Lorelei.
	Soon after rounding the sharp curve of
the river at Lorelei, we came in sight of
St. Goar, just above which rises the great
fortress Rheinfels. Some say it is the most
magnificent ruin on the Rhine. It was built
in 1255 and destroyed by the French in
1797. The ruins were sold in 1812 for
2,500 francs or $500.00 in American money.
This castle was built to endure for ages. Its
foundations were laid deep and strong and
were well nigh impregnable. Sixty Rhine
cities combined in vain in 1255 to lay seige
to it, the seige lasting one year and fourteen
weeks. In 1692 a French commander with
17,000 men attacked it with an equally
fruitless result. In 1758 it was treacherous-
ly delivered into the hands of the French
commander Marquis de Castries. The his-
tory of the ruthless destruction and desola-
tion in the German country by the French
explains the slumbering hate that raged in
the bosoms of the German nation which
burst forth in all its fury in the subsequent
war which despoiled France perhaps very
justly of a large slice of her possessions.
	Sailing around the sharpest curve of the
river we come in view of the pretty and an-
cient town of Boppard. It has many tow-
ers, two of the old Parish churches dating
from the beginning of the I2th and 13th
centuries. It has a hydropathic establish-
ment and a beautiful avenue extending for
more than a mile along the river. Passing
along reveling in the glory of the mountains
with vine and tree covered sides, we arrive
in view of the fine monument erected to the
memory of Emperor William I. It was un-
veiled in the presence of Emperor William
II, and many princes, August, 1897. We
next arrive at Coblentz, the chief town of
the Rhine province, said to be the most
beautifully located of all the large towns on
the Rhine. Its origin goes back to Roman
times. It is situated at the junction of the

[Column 3]

Moselle and Rhine rivers. One of its most
interesting places is the Kastorkirche. This
church is built in the form of a fine Roman-
esque Basilica, and dates from the end of the
12th century. It gets its name from a her-
mit of the 4th century, Kastor, whose bones
are said to be deposited in it. In the left
aisle is the monument erected in 1725 to the
saintly Rizza, who went every morning dry-
footed over the Rhine to worship in the 
Kastorkirche, so the legend runs.
	We now glide on past many interesting
places and come to Siebengebirge (seven
mountains) and the castle Drachenfels
(Dragon Rock). This name was a favorite
one for high mountain castles in the middle
ages. This one certainly deserves the name
as it forms the pinnacle of a very steep, in-
accessible mountain. The legend is that
Siegfried, a hero, visited the old Frankish
king Childerich in his vine covered castle
and found him sick and deserted. His
beautiful daughter Gunhild had been car-
ried away by a rejected suitor, Duke Hun-
old, who was  a magician, and placed her in a
cavern guarded by a huge dragon. King
Childerich offered in vain his throne to any
one who would rescue his daughter Gun-
hild. Thirty knights had already been de-
voured by the dragon in their attempt to 
rescue her. Siegfred, hearing the story, de-
clared himself ready for battle with the
monster. In the battle the monster swal-
lows his spear, which he thrusts into its
jaws, then he draws his famous sword, Bal-
mung, and with one terrible stroke of its in-
vincible blade lays the monster dead.
	The fetters of Gunhild are loosened in the
same instant, and Hunold’s soul is taken to 
hell. Unfortunately the usual sequel of
marriage and a long life of happiness does
not follow, for Siegfried is already betrothed
to a lovely woman. Lord Byron has im-
mortalized Drachenfels in one of his canto’s,
in Child Harold. One verse is as follows:

“The castle crag of Drachenfels
	Frowns o’er the wide and winding Rhine,
Whose breast of waters broadly swells,
	Between the banks which bear the vine,
And hills all rich with blossomed trees,
	And fields which promise corn and wine,
And scattered cities crowning these,
	Whose far white walls along them shine,
Have strew’d a scene which I should see,
	With double joy wert thou with me.’’

	We now come to Bonn, a pretty little
town and a wonderful bridge across the
Rhine. This town has the distinction  of
being the birthplace of the great musician
Ludwig von Beethoven. His father was
a tenor singer to the elector. On the Mun-
sterplatz stands a monument to his mem-
ory unveiled 1845. The Bonn Rhine Bridge
spoken of above is a magnificent piece of
engineering, its central span of 610 feet
being the second largest span in Europe.
	A little back from the river is a villa with
a cupola. This is the residence of the Im-
perial Princes while studying in Rome.
	We now soon arrive at Cologne, the end of
our never to be forgotten ride down the
Rhine.
	Cologne is the most important town of the
Rhine Province, though not the capital. It
was an important place on the Rhine in
Roman times, 38 B. C. The city is the seat
of an Archbishop and of a Governor.
	To it was intrusted in 1164 the preserva-
tion of the remains of the three Kings (the
Magi). This has caused pilgrims from all
parts of the earth continually to be drawn to
the city. The grandest and most amazing
structure in the city is the cathedral, called


The Dom. I have gazed upon and gone
into many cathedrals, but none excel this
to me. One can gaze with enraptured awe
standing in front of this amazing structure,
with its two towers 530 feet from the
ground, for hours without being weary or
feeling that half had been seen. From the
ground to the pinnacle it is most wonderfully
ornate. The history of its building is pa-
thetic in its long struggle to be finished.
	The foundation stone was laid in 1248.
It is of Gothic architecture designed by Ger-
hard yon Riehl. The choir was consecrated
in 1322 and the temporary wall with which
they enclosed it fn order to hold divine
services remained standing until 1863. It
was finally finished and on the 15th of Oct.,
1880, Emperor William I, surrounded by
the whole of the royal family and many of
the princes of Germany, laid the capstone of
this grand and noble building, thus this
sublimest monument of architectural skill
was completed. The interior is in keeping
in beauty with the exterior, the immense
fluted pillars and stained glass windows of
surpassing beauty enchain the admiration
of the beholder and cause one to feel that
the worshipers in such a delightful building
should have the light of true worship. We
attended a short service and came away
with sad hearts, having witnessed the mock-
ery of religion, and the darkness, ignorance,
and mystery that fills the hearts of the wor-
shipers. At the window of our room in the
hotel opposite the Dom I sat long gazing on 
this grand structure, and I wondered when
the mummery which is used in the name 
of religion would be stilled and the sublime 
structure dedicated to the true and liviag
God.
			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	Sometime about the middle of this month
(February) Brother Joseph Wilson of this
city brought some Eastern ladies to call at
this office in whom he thought we would be
particularly interested, because of the work
they were doing for destitute mothers and
children. It is needless to say that we
who are so actively engaged in the Relief
Society are always glad to know of simi-
lar work being done elsewhere. The ladies
were from Kansas City, Mo., and when
they informed us that the home they had
established was called “Joseph’s Home”
the name attracted immediate attention.
Mrs. Julia Anna Baker, who founded this
home for mothers and children who are
left stranded and helpless, has a most at-
tractive manner and is very prepossessing
in appearance, and in conversation. She
has a cultivated, pleasing voice, like one
accustomed to alleviating sorrow. The
facts stated here in regard to the Home
were of great interest and the work seems
of untold value. The ladies, two of them
are remaining here for a few days, and
the women of Salt Lake will have an op-
portunity to inquire into the benefits and
helpfulness of the home established by
Mrs. Baker, which strongly appeals to
women benevolently inclined and desirous
of rendering aid to young mothers with
little children, left dependent upon their
own exertions, with perhaps no experience
of the world and its besetments, and no
advisor, or suitable employment; perchance,
even without a dollar, or a place of shel-
ter. The writer recalls the magnificent


work done in a similar direction by Mrs.
Sarah Andrews Spencer of Washington D.
C., wherein she saved the lives of many
very young mothers and innocent babes.
Such women are public benefactors in a
very broad sense, and certainly humani-
tarians in heart and soul. Whoever saves
one precious life from pure motives is
worthy of commendation, and in these
days when divorces are frequent and de-
sertion of wives and little children has be-
come a matter of every day occurrence, if
there is “balm in Gilead” for young moth-
ers, a home for the little ones who are
unprotected and unprovided for, it is most
assuredly a source of satisfaction and to
know that there are women unselfish
enough to devote their lives to this grand
and noble service of tenderly caring for
mothers and children and keeping up the
home idea, instead of farming the children
out, and merging their identity into the
public, until they do not know their own
parentage, is a point to be emphasized, and
carefully considered.


IN MEMORIAM.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of one of our noble sisters of the 25th ward Relief
Society, Pioneer Stake, Salt Lake City, Sister
Matilda Ek, wife of Bishop Carl Ek, who
passed away Friday, November 6th, 1908,
after a severe illness. She leaves a husband and
family of eight children, three boys and five girls.
She was a devoted wife and mother. She filled
the position of second counselor in the Relief So-
ciety to the satisfaction of all, and endeared her-
self to a host of friends, but as our heavenly
Father in His wisdom has seen fit to call home
our sister to a better life, we the officers and mem-
bers of the 25th ward express our sincere sympa-
thy to the bereaved husband and family in their
loss, feeling also that they have been greatly
blessed with her wise and faithful example. Our
sister is not dead, she simply sleeps, her intelli-
gent part having gone to that bright sphere where
the just await the time of their redemption, when
there will be a reunion of the spirit with the body,
through the power of the resurrection. Having
slept in peace, she has secured her title to be
among the heavenly throng that will accompany
the Lord of glory, when He shall come to this
creation to take the reins of its government.
								COM.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
To the Memory of Sarah B. Layton, President
	of the Kaysville Relief Society for Twenty-
	four Years.

	Sister Sarah B. Layton was born July 6, 1826,
in Bedfordshire, England, and departed this life
September 13th, 1906. She was the daughter of
William and Elizabeth Barnes and the wife of the
late Christopher Layton. She was the mother of
six children, five of whom survive her.
	The officers of the Kaysville Relief Society of
the Davis Stake of Zion have prepared the follow-
ing resolutions:
	Whereas, our eternal Father has called home
one of his most earnest workers in his cause,
therefore be it
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members
of this Society, offer our earnest sympathy to the
bereaved family.
	Resolved, That we do humbly testify that we do
greatly appreciate her noble works. The leading
traits of her character were charity, love, and
humility. She died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and her light will shine before
us in time and in eternity. We realize that she
is enjoying the rest of the faithful and she will
come forth in a glorious resurrection crowned
with eternal life.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be recorded on
our Relief Society Record, also published in the
Woman’s Exponent.
	In behalf of the Kaysville Relief Society,
	Sarah H. Sheffield, President; Elizabeth Lar-
kins, Susannah Robins, Counselors; Alice Foxley,
Secretary.


INTERESTING CONFERENCE IN ARIZONA.
	Relief Society Conference of St. Joseph
Stake was held in Thatcher, December 23,
1907, in honor of the 102nd anniversary of
the birth of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Pres-
dent Elizabeth Layton presiding. After
singing, and prayer by Patriarch Samuel
Claridge, First Counselor Salina Phillips
made some opening remarks and welcomed
all present.
	President Layton stated the object of the
meeting, commenting on the event of the
birth of the Prophet.
	President Andrew Kimball gave a de-
scriptive narrative of a visit to the cities of
Nauvoo, Independence, and adjacent places
of interest to the Saints.
	Roll call showed eight stake officers pres-
ent, and eight society organizations repre-
sented.
	Emma B. Coleman of the Stake Board
gave a detailed account of the organization
of the first Relief Society, quoting the
Prophet many times during her remarks.
	Congregation sang “Redeemer of Israel.”
when the conference was adjourned until 2
p. m., during which time all repaired to the
hall below, where luncheon was served and
the noon hour spent in social chat, and re-
lating of events in the early history of the
Church.
	Afternoon session opened by the assembly
singing the hymn sung by the Apostle John
Taylor just prior to the martyrdom, “A poor
wayfaring man of grief.”
	Statistical and financial report of the
Stake was read, and the names of the offic-
ers presented by the secretary and unani-
mously sustained.
	John F. Nash of the Stake Presidency
spoke on the life of the Prophet. The
speaking was interspersed with quartet,
solos and recitations, all appropriate selec-
tions for the occasion, with also an original
poem by Samuel Claridge.
	The social feature of the conference was
an old-time, daneing party, which was
greatly enjoyed by all who participated-
			SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
			MORGAN STAKE.
	The semi annual Relief Society conference
of the Morgan Stake was held in the Stake
house on Saturday, February 15, 1908.
	After opening exercises President Lydia
Rich welcomed them all to our meetings.
Reports were given from Morgan, Rich-
ville and Milton wards, that the work is
alive in their wards and doing pretty well.
	Bishop Giles of Milton encouraged all in
the work. A quartette was then beautifully
rendered by the Richville Society, given by
four of the elderly sisters, “Christ at the
Door.” A talk on “Hospitality” was given
by Secretary Annie W. Clark. A speech by
Sister Belle Butters.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m.
	The afternoon session convened with a
pretty good attendance of stake and ward
officers and members; also President Daniel
Heiner and a number of brethren; after
opening exercises “A Testimony” by Sister
Jane S. Richards was read. Counselor
Maryette Waldron gave good advice to
secretaries.
	Counselor M. J. Walsh made a few re-
marks. A recitation was given by Martha
Meacum, “An Address to the Sisters in
Zion;” a solo by Miss Benson, “Face to


[Column 1]
Face.” Sister Tilda Neilson Petersen gave
a Mother’s Talk, “Training Girls;” Coun-
selor William Francis of the Stake Presi-
dency made a few remarks. Choir sang an
anthem, after which Sister Ann Fry gave us
a short talk, referred to the noble life of
Sister Jane S. Richards. Counselor Mary-
ettee Waldron then presented the general
and local Relief Society officers, which were
sustained by vote.
	President Lydia Rich advised all to sup-
port Relief Society work better. It will
make good women better. There is too
much of the spirit of pleasure-seeking in
our day. We should avoid extremes.
Benediction by Brother John Rich.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				ANNIE CLARK, Sec’y.
			ALPINE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake was held at Ameri-
can Fork, January 17th, 1908. President
Rebecca Standring presiding.
	Meeting opened at 10 o’clock by singing
and prayer as usual. Roll call, with a good
response from stake and local officers. Min-
utes read, etc.
	President Standring was pleased to meet
the sisters in conference, and hoped that
this might prove a happy and prosperous
New Year to us. “There has been much
sickness amongst us during this winter,
many have been bereaved of their loved
ones, but the Lord knows best, and we
should asknowledge His hand in all our cir-
cumstances. God is watching our labors,
and He will reward us as we deserve.” De-
sired His blessings to rest upon us this day.
	The four wards of American Fork were
reported by the different presidents. The
reports were encouraging. A noble band of
sisters always on hand to do what is re-
required. The rich and poor and lonely are
visited and their wants supplied. The
“Mothers lessons” on faith are doing a good
work, just what is needed.
	Song, “Count Your Blessings,” American
Fork, first ward.
	President James H. Clarke spoke of the
progress being made by the sisters and the
wisdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith in or-
ganizing the Society. Only a few years ago
it was considered indelicate for a woman to
speak before the public, now the women of
the world are pushing to bring themselves
into recognition. Think of the few people
who accepted these principles in the begin-
ning, and see what has been aocomplished
in a short time. This has not been accom-
plished by the wisdom of the world, but by
the power of God; and this work is to con-
tinue to the end. never to be taken away
nor given to another people. Many leading
men had to be cut off from the Church in
early days. We cannot estimate the im-
portance of our children growing up imbued
with the principles of the Gospel. Every
member of the Church should be those who
can be depended upon, and we should be
proud of our association with this people.
We have not commenced to see the expan-
sion of this work.
	President Louisa Halliday reported Pleas-

[Column 2]
ant Grove, and President Christina War-
nick reported Manila both doing well, pros-
pering and united, love the work, enjoy the
lessons and also the little Gems from the B’s.
	Sister Sina Chapman felt to rejoice in this
meeting. Some think they cannot speak or
sing, but we know that our sisters are equal
to every task required of them. God is
pleased with our work. Where would we
have been had not the Prophet Joseph been
nspired to organize the women? The Lord
recognizes, these women. See the noble
band of young missionaries, male and fe-
male, now out in the world, taught by their
mothers. Riches cannot change us, the
Spirit of God guides us, and the Lord blesses
His daughters even in our administration
to our sick children. Prayed that the Lord
would continually bless our labors and His
Spirit guide us. 
	Closed with singing and benediction.
	A nice lunch was prepared and served by
the committee during the noon intermission,
and was partaken of by over 200 guests,
who all agreed that it was much better than
going out to dinner. It was also a good
time for old friends to see each other.
	Afternoon session: Conference reassem-
bled at 2 p. m., President Standring pre-
siding. Meeting commenced by singing,
prayer, etc.
	The four wards of Lehi were reported by
the presidents, also Alpine reported by
President Sarah Marsh. All gave encour-
aging reports. “They are united and trying
to do their duty, holding good meetings
with an increased attendance. All have
good granaries and are trying to fill them.
Are trying to serve the Lord and are thank-
ful for the blessings He bestows upon them.
	Song. “The Daughters of Zion are Friends
of the Poor,” American Fork, third ward.
	A short history of the Relief Society of
Alpine Stake from 1901 when it was first
organized to the present, was read by Stake
Counselor Annie C. Hindley. Song by the
first ward Primary officers, entitled, “A
Prayer.”
	President Stephen L. Chipman had been
satisfied with the reports given of the wards,
they had been very good. We should al-
ways report all that is good, and keep our
criticisms to ourselves. Admired the sing-
ing. We should all sing who can and all
say Amen to the prayer. No one asks for
a position in the Church, the nominations
come from the head, and then it is put be-
fore the body for approval. Spoke of tith-
ing. After the head authorities, the
Bishops are required to look over the names
of the non-tithe payers. Those who earn
nothing are not expected to pay tithing,
neither are missionaries. The good plan
would be for each sister to keep a little book
and enter all her small earnings so that she
can refer to that and know how much tith-
ing she owes the Church. Spoke of ex-
travagance in families. It looks like we
might have close times, and people should
be careful and live within their income.
Now is a good time to curtail our expenses,
to be economical in our living and dress.
Spoke of funerals, thought those of children
might be held at home. Let us be con-

[Column 3]
sistent. Sisters, stand together and do not
let a sentence escape your lips before your
children that would be detrimental to the
brethren and sisters who are over us.
Prayed the Lord to bless our labors.
	Bishop Warren B. Smith gave a few
words of advice to the sisters on retrench-
ment in our households. We should re-
strain our children from the evils that are
around us. They should go to meeting and
learn their duty and curtail their amuse-
ments. Prayed that we be dictated by the
Spirit of the Lord.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to the
committee who had worked so hard to
make things pleasant for the sisters.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed for three months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A Congressional hearing on the petition
for a Sixteenth Amendment forbidding dis-
franchisement on account of sex will take
place at Washington on March 3rd. A re-
ception to the presidents of the State Suf-
frage Associations visiting Washington at
the time will be given at the Shoreham the
evening before. A meeting of the National
Business Committee will follow the hearing.
It will be held at the Rev. Anna H. Shaw’s
home in Moylan, Pa.
	Mrs. Millicent Garrett Fawcett writes
from London that she thinks the statement
that the Primrose League passed a strong
resolution in favor of woman suffrage is an
error. She says: “The National Union of
Conservative Associations passed a woman
suffrage resolution at Birmingham, but this
is not the Primrose League.” A report that
the Primrose League had done so was cir-
culated in the American press and copied in
our columns. Apparently it was prema[-]ure.
	The engagement is announced of Nora
Stanton Blatch, granddaughter of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton and daughter of Mrs. Harriet
Stanton Blatch, to Dr. Lee De Forest, the
inventor. Miss Blatch graduated from the
civil engineering course at Cornell in 1905,
at the age of 21. She was the first woman
to enter that department at Cornell. She
distinguished herself during her junior year
while in camp doing field work by swim-
ming across Lake Seneca, a distance of a
mile, and a few days later by swimming
across Cayuga Lake at its widest part. She
graduated among the first five in a class of
seventy-five, and was elected to the honor
society, Sigma Psi.
	Of a distinguished educator who objects
to the predominence of women in the teach-
ing profession, an acute woman makes this
criticism: “At on time this man’s judg- 
ment on educational matters was worth
something; but he has been in educational
work so long, has studied the petty details
of his work so constantly, and has become
so narrowed by the prejudices of his calling
and by continually dealing with the smaller 
things of life, that his judgment is of very
little value at present.” There is something
well worth thinking over in the point of that 
criticism. The teaching profession, with its
excessive demands for concentration upon 
small things and its necessity for constant
adaptation to the needs of immature minds,
has so strong a tendency to weaken the
powers of generalization that educators
should never cease to guard themselves
against this debilitating influence.—The
Public.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 36.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1908.						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
								PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions.............Emmeline B. Wells	57
A Grand and Happy Day.......Louisa Gray	59
Relief Society Report:—Nebo Stake.........	59
Mothers’ Work:—Parowan Stake..............	61
	Uintah Stake—Blackfoot Stake.......	62
Resolutions................................................	63
In Memory.................................................	63
In Memoriam.............................................	63
A Tribute....................................................	64
History of the U. W. Press Club.................	64
Notes and News................................. 58 and 64
Relief Society Conference.........................	60
D. R. New York City.................................	61
Editorial:—An Artistic Booklet................	60
	Seventy-Eighth Annual Conference.	60
	Editorial Notes..................................	60
Poetry:—Daughters of Zion......................
	..........................Annie Wells Cannon	57
	Love is Sancitified.....Lydia D. Alder	59
	The Good Old Days.....Ellis R. Shipp	59


DAUGHTERS OF ZION.
Song, written for the Relief Society Conference,
				April 1908.
		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.
		[Tune—Kathleen Mavourneen.]
Long, long ago on the banks of the river
Where lies the fair city of lovely Nauvoo,
There wandered a man rapt in deep meditation—
’T was Joseph, the Prophet, so brave and so true.
The light of the heavens shone brightly above
	him,
A message celestial came sweetly and clear:
“To Israel’s fair daughters reveal the glad tid-
	ings,
A mission of mercy for them to revere;
Daughters of Zion! rejoice evermore!

“Oh daughters of Zion, Jehovah has spoken:
Go forth in all gladness, and kindness, and love,
No longer in doubt—for your thraldom is broken,
Relieve the sad-hearted, your tenderness prove;
Go comfort the weary, give cheer to the lonely,
Remember the aged, forget not the poor;
Heaven’s sweet blessings will surely await you;
Daughters of Zion rejoice evermore,
Daughters of Zion rejoice evermore.

“The mourner, the sufferer, the orphan, the
	childless,
All call for your sympathy, tenderness, care;
Relief is your motto, and labor your watchword,
Be thoughtful and gentle, let love be your prayer.
Let wisdom and faith guide your footsteps for-
	ever
As forward you follow your labor of love,
Let joy fill your heart,—and weary, no never;
For heaven and the angels shower smiles from
	above!
Daughters of Zion, rejoice evermore.”


Mrs. Roosevelt is said to be opposed to
a third term for the President, having grown
very tired of the formal official social round
in which she has lived during the past seven
years. She is one of the busiest women in
official circles in Washington.


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.

	A saintly face and a great mother-heart,
		So rich in grace and charity thou art,
	That evermore our reverence shall be
		A loving tribute to thy memory.
	E’en poets yet unborn shall sing thy fame,
		And future generations bless thy name.
									E. B. W.

	These lines were written for the card on
which was the picture of Zina D. H.
Young to present to her many friends on the
occasion of her seventy-fifth birthday anni-
versary at a banquet given by the Relief So-
ciety, in the Templeton Hotel, January 31,
18963, and the verse is so expressive of the
woman, that I thought it a good opening to
the personal impressions I am about to
give of this famous Mother in Israel.
	I remember many years ago, when I was
quite young, of saying, “Aunt Zina has a
real Madonna face,” and throughout my life
I carried the thought whenever and where-
ever I saw her; to us who knew and worked
with her, Zina D. H. Young needs no en-
comium of praise, but to the younger women
of today and those yet to come upon the
stage of action in this Church, she should
be represented in prose, in poetry, in pic-
tures that will give to them an idea of her
beautiful personality. 
	I hesitate in writing of such good women
as those with whom I have been associated
in the Church, knowing how impossible it
is to convey the true merits of the nobility
of their characters to those, who were not
familiar with them in life. 
	The writer implicitly believes that Zina
Diantha Huntington inherited from a fam-
ous ancestry many of the talents so wonder-
fully developed in her own life under cir-
cumstances and with environments and sur-
roundings so unfavorable, in many respects
to growth and culture, and without what the
world terms superior advantages. To me
Aunt Zina was the embodiment of all that
was loveliest in Motherhood, and I speak
the word Motherhood with the utmost rever-
ence possible to a nature that holds this
condition of woman eminently superior. 
	Sister Zina was known throughout the
Church and was as greatly beloved perhaps,
as any woman who has stood in high places,
among the great heroes and heroines of
Zion. She was a born physician, and came
of a long line of men of that profession. She
was what is termed in our day, a “natural
healer,” one realized as soon as she entered
the sick room the influence of her presence,
and as I have often remarked, she carried
about with her the “balm of Gilead.”
The motherly element so designated in
modern times, together with the gift of heal-
ing so largely developed by her through the
gifts and inspiration of the Gospel, gave to
“Aunt Zina” that intense sympathy with
misfortune and suffering, that brings one
into close communion with the hearts and
inner lives of those to whom they minister.
She was generously endowed with that true
charity which hopeth all things, and in the
exercise of these sacred gifts she so distin-
guished herself among the sick and the sor-

[Column 2]
rowing as to gain the appellation of “Zina,
the Comforter.”
	Strictly religious in mind and character,
inheriting from her Puritan ancestry those
strong elements of endurance, for her faith,
zeal and devotion in the exercise of her be-
lief and religious liberty, and spiritual and
inspirational in that degree that is uplifting
in its tendency and effect, was the impres-
sion she made upon me. 
	Humility was one of Aunt Zina’s crown-
ing virtues, yet she had the courage to face
difficulties that to many would be appalling,
and the fortitude and endurance that knows
no wavering and is in itself a triumph. 
	Throughout the land of Zion and wherever
the gospel has been spread the names of
Sister Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young
are heralded and linked together. Their
lives fitted into each other admirably, and
together they labored for the good of hu-
manity, and particularly for womanhood and
the youth of Zion. 
	Sister Zina will, I trust, be remembered
for her indefatigable labors in the silk indus-
try. This people owe much to her efforts in
many directions. In all the details of
work, and in the hardships of pioneer life,
Sister Zina had an abundant share. The
early pioneer women had to make their own
soap, candles, starch, molasses, and what-
ever was needed without machinery of
any kind; and there was carding, spinning,
dyeing, knitting, weaving, besides ordinary,
regular, everyday duties; in all these
Sister Zina took part. Through all these
and manifold other experiences, Sister Zina
still retained that gentleness of spirit that
won the hearts of her coworkers and en-
deared her to all her associates; she pos-
sessed that rare delicacy of sympathy which
brings to the human heart sweet consolation
when under the most painful afflictions.
The gentle ministrations of women have
been beautifully portrayed by poets and
writers and by artists and sculptors, but
none of the artificial productions can bring
to the human soul the exquisite rendering of
divine power, which comes through human
tenderness in the hour of supreme need. 
	Sister Zina was a wonderfully gifted pub-
lic speaker, her tones were thrilling, and
her voice and manner always pleasing. 
	She impressed me as one greatly favored
of the Lord, and her presence among the
women of Zion was like a benediction. Vol-
umes might be written of her, and yet “the
half not be told.”
	“Wherein her very look
		We read her face as one who reads,
	A true and holy book.”

	Zina Diantha Huntington Young was born
at Watertown, New York State, January 3,
1821. Died in Salt Lake City, Utah, August
28, 1901.

	In dwelling upon the lives of the great
women whom I have known; and with whom
my lot has been cast, it is comparatively
easy to say a great deal, but not so when
one must single out a few prominent char-
acteristics. 
	The writer has in the past published
much concerning these heroic women, and


[Column 1]
now only wishes to present a glimpse, as it
were, a sort of pen picture from her own
point of view. Certainly Mary Isabella
Hales Horne was in herself a pillar of
strength, one saw it in her firmly built fig-
ure, her open countenance, the poise of
her head, and the way it set upon her
shoulders. Her brow denoted wisdom, (I
am neither phrenologist, nor skilled in
any science of a similar kind) but I can
see things clearly when I know the people.
To me it seems that the first glance of this
grand woman would assure one of her sub-
stantiality.
	M. Isabella Horne was a born leader, a
sort of General among women and indeed
in this respect might surpass most men, of
extraordinary ability; she really was intensely
English, though she was, as we say, Ameri-
canized. I should call her a perfect Eng-
lish type. She probably came of a race of
strong, valiant, heroic men and women. I
know not, but would judge so. At all events
she was a woman who could stand alone for
a principle in which she believed, opposition
would have no effect to weaken her, when
once she had made up her mind she was
right. Such women are sorely needed
in the battle of life, when there are wrongs
to be righted. You could rely upon her
integrity and uprightness in all places and
at all times; fearless of the foe, no crouch-
ing, no half measures, everywhere she main-
tained the dignity of her position, in what-
ever place she was called to fill. A woman
of great force of character, and wonderful
ability, such a one as might stand at the
head of a great institution and carry it on
successfully. Full of fidelity in friendship,
one always knew she would not fail in any
of the relations of comradeship, or sister-
hood. Her tenacity of purpose and her
grasp of great and grave questions, problems
even, were of a high order of statesmanship.
Even President Young once nominated her
for Justice of the peace, and in character and
ability to judge, she was not unlike Deborah
of old, or Queen Elizabeth of more modern
times, who instituted and carried forward
some of the greatest reforms.
	Sister Horne can appropriately be called a
stalwart, a champion for the rights of her
own sex, and indeed for all mankind.
Withal she was a woman of a strong relig-
ious nature, and had the utmost reverence
for sacred things and holy ordinances; firm
as the everlasting hills in the faith tof the
Gospel.
	Sister Horne had a fine presence on the
platform, or in the pulpit, spoke with great
earnestness and was wise in her utterances,
prophetic in nature, familiar with the scrip-
tures and handled her subjects well. Like
others of her time, she was undoubtedly a
woman of destiny. Although Sister Horne
filled many public positions, yet she was
essentially a home-maker, a mother in Israel
brave and renowned, as thousands can
testify.
	Mary Isabella Hales Horne was bore in
Rainham, Kent, England, Nov. 20, 1818.
Died in Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 25, 1905.

	Comparatively few of the women of today
know even the name of Leonora Callister
Cannon Taylor, but in the mind of the writer
she is intimately associated with Mary Isa-
bella Horne; they were great friends and
good comrades from Canada to the Salt Lake
Valley. We of an older generation knew
Leonora Taylor as a magnificent woman;
one of commanding presence, and a coun-
tenance beaming with intelligence; nobility

[Column 2]
was stamped upon her brow, she was highly
educated, cultured and refined. Sister Tay-
lor was also English and it was very evident
in her manner and appearance; she held
very lofty and independent views, and I at-
tribute this in a measure to the fearlessness
of the sea-fearing people from whom she
sprang (her father was a ship captain), as
also the greater freedom and liberty given
to women on the tight little Isle of Man;
they had rights and privileges not accorded
to other women in Great Britain or on the
continent of Europe. The House of Keys,
as the Parliament of the Isle of Man is de-
signated, is composed of landed proprietors,
and women, who are land owners, have al-
ways voted for members of that body and
formerly, so history tells us, women were
members of that August Assembly. Sister
Taylor was exceedingly interesting in con-
versation, fond of good company, and very
hospitable; she entertained handsomely even
when living in a log cabin. I recall a small
party at her home in Winter Quarters, every-
thing was simple, but managed with such
skill and dignity that one only realized the
charm of the hostess. Sister Taylor was
very companionable to young people, she
seemed gifted with a sort of vivacity, that
was attractive to youth as well as those of
her own set, even though she was of a re-
ligious and devotional nature, and she had
the greatest reverence for sacred things.
These elements combined make for the high-
est excellence in human character in men or
women.
	The women who have figured conspicuous-
ly in early Church history of these latter
days, were far above the average, and one
cannot but feel they were called and in fact
chosen to assist in ushering in this last dis-
pensation. Through trials, difficulties and
journeyings from place to place, they have
been heroines in very deed. Siste Leonora
Taylor was a most loyal and devoted wife,
and her husband had desperate need of her
help when he was wounded in the prison at
Carthage, at the time of the martyrdom of
the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother
Hyrum the Patriarch. Who can minister
to a man sick and distressed, so gently, so
tenderly as a loving, devoted, royal-hearted
wife, and especially one who like Sister
Taylor possessed all the requisites of woman’s
noblest nature intensified.
	Leonora Taylor was present when the Re-
lief Society was organized in Nauvoo, Illinois,
March 17, 1842. Her name stands third on
the list, only Emma Smith, and Martha
Knight before hers.
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert niece of Sister
Leonora Taylor somewhat resembles her
aunt, and has that beautiful expression of
countenance that one might term beatific; also
her niece Sister Ann C. Woodbury reminds
one of Sister Taylor in some of her heroic
utterances, and her lofty fearlessness, that is
inherited from the sea-fearing people, and
the greater privileges of citizenship their
foremothers enjoyed in that far-away past.
Grand women these three. Leonora Taylor
stands in the front rank among celebrated
heroines of the Church, George Elliot says:
		“A woman’s rank lies in the fulness of
			her womanhood
		Therein alone is she royal.”
	Leonora Callister Cannon Taylor, born in
Peel, Isle of Man, October 6, 1796, died in
Salt Lake City, December, 1868.

	Another remarkable woman was Phebe
Whittemore Carter Woodruff she was of Puri-
tan descent and came from, “away down in

[Column 3]
Maine.” I knew her intimately, for half a
century and testify to her strength of char-
acter, wonderful capabilities, stanch inte-
grity, and heroic fortitude of endurance.
Under the most severe trials she bore herself
majestically. She had the inherent quali-
ities of her Puritanical ancestry, that fought
for freedom and liberty in America, and re-
belled against tyranny and oppression in
England before they came.
	Sister Woodruff traveled to Kirtland, Ohio
from Maine alone, having been convinced of
the truth of the gospel; and that was at a
time when means of transit were not so safe
for a young maiden, but she had no fear,
and this one step in her life was indicative
of her true character.
	She was a woman of active energy, deter-
mination and independence; industrious,
and in fact thrifty, had excellent judgment
in affairs and good business ability, such
women were needed in pioneer life.
	Sister Woodruff had a varied experience,
in journeying from place to place with her
husband and family; and she once accom-
panied him to England when he went upon
his second mission to that country, and later
to the Eastern States going as far as her na-
tive home in Maine. Sister Woodruff was
a stanch advocate for the rights of her sex,
and her people. The speech she made in
the old Tabernacle protesting against the
passage of the Cullom hill has been alluded
to by writers and historians as a master-
piece. It is said of the Fabyans, her moth-
er’s family name, that they sprang from the
Roman nobility and one could easily believe,
Phebe Woodruff had the blood of conquerors
in her veins; at any rate the writer has abun-
dant proof of her native Yankee wit, which
on some occasions serves one’s purpose bet-
ter than argument, or bursts of oratory.
Among the women of Zion she excelled in
many respects, was well versed in the script-
ures, and in public work among the sisters
was sound on all doctrinal subjects, and
wise in counsel and faithful in the discharge
of religious duties. She was one of the fore-
most women to fill positions of trust and
confidence in the early days in the valley,
also an excellent housewife, knew how to
meet all the needs of a primitive home; car-
ding, spinning, dyeing, weaving, soap and
candle making, she was a pillar of strength
to her husband and family. The heart of
her husband could safely trust in her.
	Phebe Whittemore Carter Woodruff was
born March 8, 1807, in Scarboro, Maine, died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, November 10, 1885


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Taft is supposed to agree with Roosevelt
on most questions. He also agrees with
him in regard to woman suffrage.
	Rev. Anna H. Shaw has started on a lec-
ture tour through the Southern States. She
will attend the meeting of the International
Suffrage Alliance in Holland in June.
	Miss Sally Word was last week elected
assessor and collector of taxes in Palestine,
Texas, and Mrs. E. H. Turner and Mrs. P.
P. Tucker were elected members of the
Dallas board of education. Seven members
constitute the board, which disburses from
half a million to a million dollars annually
and is not in any way responsible to the
general city administration. The election
of these three women followed an opinion
given out by the Attorney General that
under the constitution of Texas women are
eligible to municipal offices.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LOVE IS SANCITIFIED.
Sighing for a little love,
	Life’s grey to turn to blue;
Pleading for a little sign,
	To tell that thou art true.
So, I gaze upon the stars,
	That glitter in the night,
Wand’ring if appeals to thee,
	Their radiance soft and bright.

Yearning for a fuller life,
	Unchanging life of love;
Fills my heart with strongest pain—
	It flutters like a dove—
Worlds must be where dark clouds ne’er
	Blot out the rays of light,
Longing O, my soul art thou
	To gaze upon the sight.

Know I this the world is fair,
	But there is much of pain;
Spirit love, O, faith inspire,
	Sing thou no sad refrain!
True thou art, I doubt thee not,
	’Twas but a passing sigh;
Ever love is sanctified,
	When faith binds fast the tie.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


THE GOOD OLD DAYS.
What blessed days—log-cabin days!
	Near sixty years ago,
When by the firelights ruddy haze
	Our cheeks were all a glow;
And youthful hearts were bounding high
	With hope and lightsome cheer,
For down came snowflakes from the sky,
	And holidays were near.

Fond memories so brightly come,
	Like radiant beams of light;
Oh there was some one coming home
	To greet me Christmas night,
Some one who months and months agone
	Had sailed across the sea—
Returning with his mission done—
	Now coming home to me!

What pretty dreams of pleasant sport,
	Of coasting down the hill,
Of sleighrides to the old town fort,
	And skating by the mill,
Of spelling schools to show our might,
	In education’s lore;
The dance at “early candle light,”
	And payments at the door.

A “tallow dip” it was perchance,
	Or produce from the farm;
Secured the ticket for the dance;
	Thus adding to its charm;
For very oft our lot had been
	To dance by sagebrush blaze,
While feet kept time to violin
	In early frontier days.

Those good old days, dear youthful days,
	Of coarse and homely fare
That simple life its primal ways—
	In joy finds no compare;
When father tilled, and mother sewed,
	And bravely met each fate,
Together bore life’s heavy load,
	Through early hours and late.

For those they loved ’twas joy to toil—
	No struggle seemed too great,
They gained their substance from the soil,
	And learned in faith to wait;
’Twas God sustained them day by day,
	His light had led them here,
He was their strength, and staff, and stay,
	Through every changing year.

Sweet, dear old days, the best of days—
	Of beauty, love and truth,
Now long since flitted from my gaze—
	Oh dear old days of youth!
When under fond and sheltering wing
	We knew but love’s caress.
What sacred bliss these mem’ries bring—
	Parental tenderness!

Parental wisdom too was brought
	To guide each youthful mind,
Then truth and honesty were taught—
	Life’s choicest pearls to find.
Oh guileless days—dear, good old days!
	Like beacon from afar,
They give to life exalted phase,
	They point the Gospel star!
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


A GRAND AND HAPPY DAY.
RANDOLPH R. S. MEETING.
	The seventeenth of March introduced it-
self to our locality in a rather flustered con-
dition.
	The winds blew a gale all day long as if
his satanic majesty had sat in council with
his co-laborers to frustrate the celebration
of the grandest day for women that ever
dawned for woman since the great mandate
came, let there be light when darkness fled
and light pierced the gloom.
	As the voice of spring cheers and invigo-
rates so does the return of this memorable
day bring comforting reflections to the memo-
ries of those who were fortunate enough to
be present at the meeting, held March 17,
1842, when the man of God stood in their
midst and declared that he was now ready
to organize the sisters.
	And ever since the utterance of these
words that fell from his prophetic lips,
woman has kept on in the path of advance-
ment and freedom of thought held out her
arms, and a veil seemed to be drawn aside
and light beamed, woman then seemed to
realize her true position here on earth.
	It was to commemorate the birth of this
eventful day that the Randolph Relief So-
ciety assembled at two o’clock p. m. on
March seventeenth, 1908.
	The meeting was presided over by Presi-
dent Celia A. Spencer.
	Our stake officers being all present, it
seemed to lend zest and influence to the oc-
casion, opening remarks were given by our
honorable Stake President Sarah Tyson, her
discourse was replete with the spirit of her
high calling. She referred to some of the
sayings of our beloved President Joseph F.
Smith in regard to women’s work, highly re-
commended the great work that was being
accomplished by the Relief Society in our
stake. Her indefatigable labors along with
her co-laborers in regard to relief work is
certainly something to be admired.
	Our annual fund was explained by Stake
Counselor Hannah Telford, she also added
some timely remarks.
	Sister Mary F. Shelly recounted some of
the trying scenes, Sister Amanda Smith
passed through during the Haun’s Mill
Massacre.
	President A. McKennon said the spirit
that prevailed was heavenly and inspiring,
exhorted the sisters to love one another and
continue in their untiring work of charity.
	Bishop Gray’s remarks were confined to
the holy mission of woman, the self-denial
that she was in possession of, encouraged the
sisters to take advantage of the nursing
course and be prepared to nurse our sick with
wisdom. He referred to the great impor-
tance of the mother’s work among our young
married sisters.
	At the close of the meeting ice cream and
cake were served under the auspices of the
local officers.
	An old time dance was enjoyed by all in
the evening. Thus ended another of the
well spent days which only the Saints of
God can enjoy.
				LOUISA GRAY.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
	Minutes of Quarterly Conference of Nebo
Stake Relief Society held at Salem, Utah
Co., December 13, 1907, commencing at
10:30 a. m. President Eliza J. Dixon pre-
siding.

[Column 2]
	After the usual exercises of singing and
prayer President Pierce of Salem spoke a
few words of welcome. 
	President Dixon spoke a short time on
our need for spiritual food and the necessity
of attending all the different organizations.
	President Pierce reported Salem Ward.
Fourth Ward of Spanish Fork by Sister
Swensen. President Ann Bingham, Benja-
min Ward, and bore her testimony to the
truthfulness of the gospel, also releated the
story of Job and his faithfulness.
	Song by Sister Christianson and others,
entitled “Ye Must Be Bora Again.”
	Sister Evans, one of the Stake Board
spoke on Christmas, and some of the prophe-
cies concerning the coming of the Savior
and his birth; also spoke very beautifully
on the vision of Nephi, and related the
greater part of it; also the Prophet Samuel,
the Lamanite, and the coming of the Savior
on this continent.
	Recitation, a sister from Spanish Fork,
entitled “Crippled Ben.”
	Exercise on parents class work by Sister
Hughes of Spanish Fork, 2nd ward, on
habit, which was given very beautifully,
with numerous illustrations.
	Morning session closed by singing and
prayer.
	Afternoon session: President Eliza J.
Dixon presiding. We continued our services
with our usual exercises.
	Sister Hallen spoke on the duties of par-
ents to children, and the environment of the
home. Said, we should have our homes
clean and the Spirit of God there. Our
homes should be a heaven on earth, not
shut up our best rooms from our children
and be careful what kind of pictures we
have on our walls. Always tell our children
the truth, teach them good language by
example and never let our children hear
vulgarity in the home; also teach them the
word of wisdom by example. Advised cook-
ing our food on Saturday and keeping the
Sabbath day holy. Related an instance of
answer to prayer.
	Song by Sister Emma Peterson, entitled
“Hold Thou My Hand.”
	Sister Cappel spoke on our duties to our
children; also said as much as we do our
part in the gospel we will be blest; referred
to a sermon printed in the Deseret News by
Elder Richards, believes the time is coming
when the judgments of the Lord will be
poured out upon the people and it will be all
we can do to escape. Teach the children
to pay tithing and when they grow up to be
men it will not be hard for them.
	Bishop Taylor of Salem spoke for some
time, said he had enjoyed the remarks of the
former speakers; believes that example is
stronger then precept; referred to the re-
sponsibilities of parents. We are of all peo-
ple the most blessed and we should be very
thankful that we have our homes among the
people of the Lord. Spoke of people among
us that don’t believe in prayer. asking bles-
sing on the food or paying tithing and its
influence on our children, we should pray
without ceasing.
	Recitation, Violet Gardner, entitled, “The
Way ward Son.”
	Brother Hanks spoke on the Relief Society
work; also said that fathers and mothers
should be the greatest teachers of their chil-
dren.
	Sister Dixon thanked the people of Salem
for their kindness and hospitality manifested
today.
			E. A. HAWKINS, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00 A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	APRIL, 1908.


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society or any who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


SEVENTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Church
held this month was very numerously at-
tended and the spirit of the discourses of the
Presidency, Apostles and other brethren
were characterized by a lofty religious and
spiritual fervor that was most helpful and
uplifting in its tendency. The music was
very inspiring and melodious, and altogether
there was a general feeling of unity, and con-
cert of action in all matters pertaining to
the upbuilding of the kingdom of God upon
the earth, and the furtherance of the spread
of the Gospel in all lands, that must give en-
couragement to those who are consecrating
their lives to the cause of truth and right-
eousness. It was a glorious sight to behold
the assembly in the large tabernacle and to
note the oneness of spirit and feeling, the
desire to promote the best interests and wel-
fare of the Saints and of all humanity.
	One can easily perceive the awakening
among the Saints, during the past few years
and since some of the old landmarks have
been re-established and interest manifested
in improving and beautifying the birthplace
of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Temple
district in Independence. The fact seems
so perceptible and is so gratifying, that those
who watch the signs of the times cannot
help feeling that the prophecy that the whole
Western continent is indeed the land of
Zion is being well-established in the minds
of those who have eyes to see and hearts to
understand. The progress of the Latter-day
work in far-off lands is strong testimony in
itself of the truth that pervades the hearts


of honest men and women in whatever land
or clime they dwell, or whatever their calling
or the customs of the country they inhabit.
They know for themselves when the Gospel
comes the spirit bears witness to the earnest
and upright in heart, and they are made to
rejoice in finding the plan of salvation as
laid down in the Scriptures, has been again
restored as promised by men of old.
	This last Conference should be a convinc-
ing proof to the young people in Zion of the
magnitude of the mighty work in which the
Saints are engaged.


[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The Meeting of the Utah State Society
Daughters of the Revolution, was held April
16, Thursday, in the Woman’s Exponent Office
at 3 p. m. Regent Mrs. Ella W. Hyde in
the Chair first Vice Regent Miss Catharine
Wells, Recording Secretary Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright, and other officers and members
present; also Mrs. Augusta Coray Lewis guest.
The Regent and most of the members re-
sponded to call with patriotic sentiments,
relating to the Battle of Lexington, it being
so near the anniversary of that memorable
day when the first shots were fired, that
brought about the liberty of the American
people of which we are all so justly proud.
The papers were in relation to the critical
period that elapsed after the close of the
war and before the inauguration of the first
President of the United States, Papers were
read by Mrs. Thomas G. Webber and Mrs.
E. B. Wells and contained many interest-
ing facts and incidents that are not gener-
ally known or if so, are not familiar even
among those who are well versed in American
history. The Utah State Society D. R. will
celebrate, its first decade during the present
year.
	The Utah Women’s Press Club and the
Reaper’s Social united in giving a party in
honor of the birthday of the founder Mrs. E.
B. Wells on Friday evening, February 28,
preceding her real birthday anniversary,
which occurred on the 29th. The party was
held at the residence of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
and was quite a grand affair. The hall and
parlor were prettily decorated with flowers,
vines entwined with ribbons, and the rooms
were filled with members of the club and in-
vited guests. Mrs. Wells being the guest of
honor. Instrumental music, songs, speeches
and poems were rendered and delicious re-
freshments served in the dining room,
which was also decorated, and everything
possible to make it a joyful affair was
done by the ladies of the clubs. Mrs.
Wells was the recipient of some valuable
gifts and toward the close of the evening
she responded in a very feeling manner
though her emotions were almost too strong
to permit her to do justice to her friends,
who had been so generous and kind, both
in word and deed. At the close a hymn
was sung and a prayer offered. Mrs. Wells
desires the ladies who paid her such a tribute
of esteem and affection to accept her heart-
felt acknowledgments and gratitude for the
respect shown her, and in whatever way she
can serve them, she will be most happy to
show them favor, and they have her love and
sincere appreciation.
	General Board of the Relief Society held a
public reception on the birthday anniversary
of the Secretary Mrs. E. B. Wells, Saturday
29, 1908, in the famous Lion House parlor,

[Column 2]
from 2 to 5 p. m. The parlor and hall were
artistically decorated and a string band of
musicians rendered some of the choicest
music in such soft sweet strains that the
harmony was most delightful. Flowers in
profusion lent their sweet fragrance to the
atmosphere of the dear old house that is al-
ways full of tender memories of the days
gone by. Mrs. E. B. Wells was assisted in
receiving by her life-long friend Mrs. Bath-
sheba W. Smith also her daughters Mrs.
Isabel Whitney Sears and Mrs. Annie Wells
Cannon and the members of the General
Board who were there to add to the suc-
cess and pleasure of the friends who called
to shake hands and pay their respects to the
woman who had reached the four score mile-
stone of life. During the afternoon the Pre-
sident of the Society in a few well-chosen
words presented the Secretary with a purss
of money given by the members of the Gen-
eral Board. So unexpected was the gift and
so modest the manner in which the purse of
gold was given that no demonstration fol-
lowed. The Daughters of the Pioneers also
presented her with a signet ring of pure gold
but Mrs. Wells was requested to tell the
ladies about her advent into the world, and
other real birthdays that had been celebrat-
ed, and she complied in an affable and
rather humorous style. It is said that near-
ly or quite six hundred people called at the
Lion House and shook hands with Mrs. Wells,
Mrs. Smith and other ladies. The room it-
self was almost a bower of roses carnations
and fragrant emblems of love and beauty.
Light refreshments were served to all the
guests by young girls grand-daughters and
nieces of Mrs. Wells. Altogether it was a
delightful affair, a gala-day in Midwinter,
and though the wind blew a gale in the
morning, the afternoon was pleasant and all
things considered it was perhaps as auspici-
ous of good, as the day on which Mrs. Wells
was ushered into the world, a tiny infant, in
a far-off New England home.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The April Conference of the General Re-
lief Society which occupied two days, April
2nd and 3rd, was quite an event in the his-
tory of this grand organization. It is the
first time that two days sessions have been
held, and there was the largest attendance
on record.
	The Conference was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, opening Thursday morning,
April 2nd, at 10 a. m. President Bathshe-
ba W. Smith presiding. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas
Edward, Musical Director; Miss Edna H.
Coray, Accompanist.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee O God for a Prophet.” Prayer was of-
fered by Sister Susan Grant, continued by
singing, “How firm a foundation ye Saints
of the Lord.” Roll call, by the Secretary,
Sister E. B. Wells; general officers, 4;
board of directors, 7; 30 stakes out of 56
answered to roll call.
	President B. S. Smith was very glad to
see so many dear sisters, she would like to
shake hands with each one, and she desired
to bless all present, and that they might be
able to carry out the instructions given
by the Prophet Joseph when he organized
the society, prayed that all might have wis-
dom and strength, and when we meet the
Prophet (if we are permitted) that he will
be well pleased, she believed he would be,
for she knew we had done well and felt we
would continue in so doing.


[Column 1]
	President Annie S. Musser of Liberty
Stake responded to the greeting of the Gen-
eral President, she was indeed gratified that
we had Sister Smith with us, and hoped
she might live to meet with us as long as
she desired, her name was a household word
among all the Saints. “We know she has
been honored of the Lord, a noble daughter,
a true wife and a glorious mother, and we
bow to her almost in adoration, for she
stands at the head of the grandest charitable
organization in the world. We are blest of
the Lord and because our work is so unself-
ish. We have been called, we have been
chosen, to represent our Heavenly Father
here on earth in connection with the Priest-
hood, and I ask our Father in heaven to
bless all the workers. May our motto ever
be, “Faith, Hope and Charity,” and I ask
it in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Contralto solo, Miss Mabel Cooper.
	Stakes were called to report first: presi-
dent, E. L. S. Udall, St. John; President
Bathsheba B. Grundy, Wayne; President
Louisa B. Benson, Oneida; President Mar-
garet A. Romney, Ensign; President Min-
erva E. R. Knowlton, Davis.
	Supt. Emma A. Empey of Relief Society
nurses, made a plea for more young women
to be sent this year, to take the nurse course,
and dwelt briefly upon the great need of
more nurses and the benefits to the young
women themselves as well as good to others.
Sister Phebe Y. Beatie also spoke upon the
same subject making an earnest appeal to
the presidents and others to interest the
young women in the study of nursing.
	“Angel’s Serenade,” Miss Lottie Brain.
	More Relief Society, stakes were called.
President Matilda Flamm reported Fremont,
President Susanna P. Booth, Box Elder.
	Morning session closed by singing, “Re-
deemer of Israel.” Benediction by Sister
Rhoda A. Lyman.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m., opened by
singing, “Come, come ye Saints,” prayer
was offered by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon.
Singing led by the musical director, Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edward, “Daughters of
Zion rejoice evermore,’’ composed expressly
for this Relief Society Conference by Sister
Annie Wells Cannon, and before singing the
song was read to the congregation by Sister
Alice Merrill Horne, the singing was accom-
panied by Prof. W. C. Clive and his son,
Master Clifford Clive, and the hymn was
very beautifully rendered.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde made the
opening address of the afternoon, she re-
ferred to the reports made in the morning,
commended the sisters for their earnest,
faithful and diligent labors, knew they had
depended upon the Lord, felt the good done
was invaluable, and spoke of the beautiful
hymn just sung, written by Sister Cannon,
that it just carried the spirit of the work;
she felt there was a very decided growth in
the Society the past year, more granaries
built, better attendance at meetings, beauti-
ful outlines prepared for Mother’s work,
giving better results, hoped the work now
would reach more of the young mothers;
dwelt upon this line of work and of young
women gaining knowledge, referred particu-
larly to preparation for motherhood, and
also to the greater opportunities nowadays;
spoke of establishing libraries and mentioned
the great responsibilities resting upon moth-
ers in training their children in the princi-
ples of the Gospel, exhorted tha mothers to
question themselves and see if they had done
their full duty, felt the opportunity given to

[Column 2]
us as women was more blessed than any-
thing in the world.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams, one of the
general officers of the Society, made a tell-
ing and forcible address. She had left the
meeting this morning to pay her last respects
to one of our dear young mothers, who had
been called into the world beyond, and had
there heard many of the beautiful things
that our Elders can say about motherhood.
“How great is the wonderful mission of
mothers, we are blest beyond all women
and therefore should be the best mothers in
the world;” referred to the differences in
children, how easily some are led and how
difficut it is to guide others, urged faith and
prayer, thought the adversary was busier
than ever before. Spoke of the many
amusements that take the young people
from the home, and how watchful mothers
must be, to preserve the purity of the youth
of Zion; alluded to the young, innocent girls
coming from the country meeting with
strangers and in an idle moment perhaps
falling into danger, spoke feelingly of the
difficulties that have to be met, and stated
concerning a special committee that had
been appointed by authority, to look after
these matters and of the magnitude of the
work. Sister Williams gave excellent advice
that should be followed; thought that every
young woman coming to the city should put
herself in communication with the Bishop
of the ward where she expects to reside; re-
lated some facts that had come to her knowl
edge that proved that we sisters should all
be missionaries in helping our young girls
to protect themselves, prayed that all might
heed the warning she had given and added,
“May our Heavenly Father bless us with
wisdom and intelligence and help us to live
up to the Golden Rule, “To do unto others
as we would have them do unto us.”
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox thought the
care of the children had been beautifully
touched upon this afternoon but that little
had been said of their physical care; “no wo-
man who marries and becomes a mother
but should know how to nurse, many moth-
ers know little about caring for health, every
human being is a bundle of tendencies,
which shows us the need of knowledge;
some mothers are natural nurses, but
every mother should know a little of
hygiene and physiology, more children in
their infancy and early childhood are in-
jured by being over-fed than in not having
sufficient food, and disease is often fostered
by uncleanliness. We should not forget that
disease is a poison, mothers should reach
out their influence in the neighborhood and
help physically as well as other ways
spiritually and mentally. “I do believe
that through the care of wise parents chil-
dren may be saved. We ought to have
power to prevent so much sickness among
children.”
	Sister Minnie H. James said that the be-
ginning of her Relief Society work was when
a little girl she went to the meetings with
her mother to take care of the sisters’ chil-
dren while they quilted and sewed, and her
idea was if we would teach our children that
their real pleasure was in helping others,
perhaps we could overcome this excessive
pleasure seeking. If we have the Spirit of
the Lord it will be a guide to us.
	Sister Alice M. Horne referred to the good
things she had heard today, and felt after
all that she might be a better mother than
she had been before. Referred to her visit
in Arizona and a conversation with a physi-
cian she met there, and the question arose,

[Column 3]
“Why do so many young mothers die?”
The physician stated his experience in this
matter had led him to believe it was due to
excessive dancing; girls work all day and
dance at night in over-heated, or badly
ventilated rooms, and they attended parties
when they are not in a proper condition of
health; Sister Home maintained girls should
be taught to stand well, these things can be
taught in early youth, believed in the edu-
cation that began in the home, take proper
care of ourselves, in every way, our health
is almost the first consideration, spoke of
beautiful and attractive homes.
	Prof. W. C. Clive played a very beautiful
violin solo accompanied on the piano by
Master Clifford Clyde. 
	Congregation sang, “Lord dismiss us with
Thy blessing,” etc. Benediction by Sister
E. B. Wells.
			E. B. WEL, Secretary.
Close of first day’s Conference.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


D. R. NEW YORK CITY.
	The annual meeting and biennial election
of officers of the General Society of the
Daughters of the Revolution will be held in
New York during the week of April 27th,
with headquarters at the Waldorf Astoria.
Ten new members will be elected to the
Board of Managers.
	The program for the week will include a
reception at the new plaza, given by the
New York Society D. R., a theatre party, a
banquet at the Waldorf and excursions to
points of local and historic interest.
	An especialiy pleasant and interesting
convention is expected and a full attendance
is desired.


OUTLINE MOTHERS’ WORK.
		PAROWAN STAKE.
	Lesson 1.—Life and its responsibilities.
	Why are we here? We must sometime give
an account for the way in which our lives
have been spent.
	Lessson 2.—Have an aim in life.
	That of making happy homes—Good
cooking an important factor. Good health
another. Politeness and courtesy at home
are also important. Count your blessings
but not your trials and you will find much
cause for happiness.
	Lesson 3.—Women in professions.
	(a) What professions are most suitable
for women to follow? (b) Motherhood and
a professional woman. (c) Motherhood is
the instinct of all women and greater breadth
and clearness of understanding should not
militate against any natural human instinct
but only serve to develop it.
	Lesson 4.—Mothers to be companions.
	(a) Mothers should share the joys, sor-
rows and amusements of their children, 
(b) Strive to do justice to the nature of the
child.
	Lesson 5.—Faith.
	(a) What is faith? (b) On whom does
our faith rest? (c) Show that it is a prin-
ciple of action. (d) Show that it is a prin-
ciple of power. (e) Example of faith.
	Lesson 6.—Reading.
	(a) “Seek ye out of the best books words
of wisdom, seek learning by study and also
by faith.” (Doctrine and Covenants.) (b)


[Column 1]
Objects of reading—knowledge, pleasure,
and pastime. (c) Good and evil of books.
For the good; Force yourself to reflect on
what you read. For the bad; A man may
be eating all day and for the want of diges-
tion is never nourished, so these incessant
readers may cram themselves in vain with
intellectual food.
	Lesson 7.—Home the child’s world.
	Make the home beautiful, encourage fami-
ly singing. Provide music of some kind.
Encourage the making of beautiful things
at home. Get tool boxes for the boys, and
make their rooms neat and pretty, as well as
the girls rooms.
	Lesson 8.—The parent and the school.
	(a) Don’t feel that when your little one
enters school life your responsibility for his
training is over, in fact it is greater than
ever. (b) Between the parent and the
teacher there should always be some ac-
quaintance and communication. (c) Parents
should acquaint themselves with the con-
ditions and conduct of the school as well as
the home and thereby aid both the teacher
and the child.
	Lesson 9.—The sin of gossip.
	(a) “Judge not that ye be not judged for
with what judgment ye judge ye shall be
judged.” (Matt. 7:1.) (b) Be not hasty in
condemning others. Speak of their good
qualities rather than their misdeeds. We
might do things that would be just as wrong
if we were placed in similar circumstances.
(c) Have some subject for discussion at
sewing bees and working meetings.
	Lesson 10.—Courtesy.
	Courtesy is uplifting as it leads each to
render proper respect for another. (b)
Wives should be courteous to their husbands
and children. (c) Children should be taught
to be courteous. (d) Advantages to be de-
rived.
	Lesson 11.—Honesty.
	(a) If thou shalt find that which thy
neighbor has lost thou shall make diligent
search till thou shalt deliver it to him again.
(Doctrine and Covenants.) (b) When chil-
dren pick up articles of value do we encour-
age them to try to find the lawful owner?
	Lesson 12.—Observance of the Sabbath
		day.
	(a) Exodus chapters 16, 20, and 23.
(b) It is good to do good on the Sabbath
day. (Matt. 12, verse 1-14. (c) Mothers
should so arrange their work that as little
manual labor as possible be performed on
the Sabbath.
		FLORENCE WEBSTER,
		ROSE LUNT,
	Committee of Cedar City. 
		OUTLINE UINTAH STAKE.
	Lesson 1.—Marriage ordained of God.
	Multiply and replenish the earth (Gen.
chap. 1). “Neither is the man without the
woman nor the woman without the man in
the Lord” (1 Cor. 11: 11). “It is not good
for man to be alone (Gen. 2:18).—Marriage
to be held sacred. The Lord interfered to
protect Abraham’s wife from being defiled
(Gen. 12: 17-20). Defiling of woman next
to murder (Book of Mormon, Alma 39:5;
Doc. and Cov., sec. 132).—Eternity of mar-
riage. When the Lord gave Eve to Adam he

[Column 2]
made no condition of time. Our latter-day
marriage covenant is for eternity, to bind on
earth, given to Joseph Smith (Doc. and Cov.
110: 11-16).
	Lesson 2.—Affection.
	1. Love of parents for each other. 2. Of
parents for children. 3. Of children for pa-
rents.
	Aim: Love in the home is necessary to
gain and maintain the highest ideal in home
government. General Truth—Love induces
patience, gentleness, long suffering, etc.
	Suggestions: 1. “If we love one another
God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected
in us” (John 4: 12). 2. “Thou shalt live
together in love (Doc. and Cov. 42-45; See
Doc. and Cov. 121. 41-46). Love may be
encouraged by a proper consideration of one
another’s feelings.
	Lesson 3.— Definition. 
	General, special as regards wording.—
Prayer. (a) All words given. (b) Portion
given. (c) Own wording.—Kinds of special
as regards purpose. 1. Praise and thanks-
giving. 2. Pleading and intercession. 3.
Supplication and confession.—Necessity of.
1. Because of our dependence on God. 2.
As a source of comfort. 3. As a protection
from evil. 4. As a means of spiritual growth.
—How made effectual. 1. Belief in God.
2. Acknowledgement of his power. 3. Ob-
servance of his laws.—Attuned with power
addressed. 1. By pure motive. 2. By
humility and worthiness.—Desirable place
for Prayer. 1. Public worship (III Nephi
18: 16). 2. Family (III Nephi 18:21).
3. Individual (Alma 34: 26).
	Note.—Consult any of the standard L. D.
S. Church works.
	Lesson 4.—Economy in the home.
	Definition. 1. Of means. 2. Of time. 3. Of
strength.—Economy. Topics for discussion.
The effects of going into debt. Value of
time. Select other appropriate topics.
	Lesson 5.—Definition. General.
	How to cultivate cheerfulness.—Cheerful-
ness, affects digestion. The welfare of the
home. The welfare of the community. In
the performance of irksome duties. In bear-
ing losses and crosses. In the sick room.
In the giving of gifts cheerfulness keeps
the heart from despairing. Discuss the
actual or probable effects of worry upon
the mind.  Of Levity. General Truths.
Worry excitement, and all the emo-
tions of anger, hatred envy, etc., weaken
the mental powers and exhaust the nervous
system. Quotations—“Blessed is she who
is hopeful in spirit for she finds sunshine in
shadow.” “It is easy enough to be pleasant.”
	When life flows along like a song,
	But the man worth while
	Is the one that will smile
	When every thing goes dead wrong.
	Lesson 6—Moral education. Games.
	Social duties in the home. Amusements
in the home.
	Propositions for discussion.—Sabbath vis-
ting. Sabbath night socials. The effect
of going into society too young.
	Aim: To show the relation of social du-
ties to the welfare of the home.
	Sugestions: Christ pictured the beauty
and graciousness of social life in many par-
ables Example. The reach man’s feast, and
his seeking his guests in the highways. The
marriage supper; His portrayal of the rich

[Column 3]
man’s table; and above all his lovely promise
that the faithful should sit down with Him
at the bridal supper of the lamb of God.
	Lesson 7.—Proper conduct in houses of
		worship.
	Providing room for many. Comfortable
seats. Away from objects that distract the
mind.—Dedicated to the Most High. Words
of inspiration given and received. Ordin-
ances of the gospel performed there.
	Aim: To encourage reverence for houses
of worship and discourage loud laughter;
loud talking; any unnecessary disturbance;
marring the furniture. Expectoration on the
floor, any unnecessary soiling of the floor.
	Lesson 8.—General, Special.
	Command; Counsel; Advice. How given;
Vision; Revelation, where recorded; Inspira-
tion.—Word of wisdom. Protection from
enemies; For physical development; For spi-
ritual development.—Salient points. In-
jurious effects of tea, Tannic acid, etc.—
Coffee, Coffein, etc.; Cocoa, Theobroma;
Condiments other stimulants. Agreement
with scientific knowledge (See Doc. and Cov.
sec. 89.
	Lesson 9.—Obedience to God.
	Source of all power, light, love, justice,
mercy; love, deference, power; Equality, jus-
tice, mercy. To God, to parents, to law of
land. Incentives to obedience. Blessings
obtained through obedience; Results of dis-
obedience. General Truth—Salvation comes
through obedience.
	Lesson 10.—Tithing in early times.
	Abraham pays tithes to Melchizedek (Gen.
14: 18-20); Jacob vows to pay (Gen. 28:22)
The Israelites tithed (Lev. 27:30-34). Mae-
diaeval times: A blessing to follow (Mal. 3:
7-12). Approved by Jesus (Matt. 23:23;
Luke 11:42); Practised by the Nephites
(III Nephi 24: 7-12). He that is tithed
shall not be burned (Doc. and Cov., sec. 64:
23, 24 and 85:3); One tenth to be paid (Doc.
and Cov., sec. 119: 1, 4); Higher law repre-
sented by it (Doc. and Cov., sec. 42 and 51).
In latter days: Pres. Snow promised that
the Saints should be blessed if they paid an
honest tithing—has been fulfilled.
		PHEBE A. MERKELEY,
				Stake Secretary R. S.

BLACKFOOT STAKE OUTLINE.
		Lecture 1.—Life.
	a. Life is to develop body, mind and
soul. God made man and breathed into
his nostrils and man became a living soul.
(Gen. 2:7.) b. Life is the arena of many
forms of courage; as many, in fact, as there
are lines of human action (Our Home p.
401.)
	“Our daily paths with thorns or flowers
		We can at will bestrew them,  
	What bliss will gild the passing hours,
		If we but rightly knew them.
	The way of life is rough at best.
		But briars yield the roses,
	So that which leads to joy and rest,
		The hardest path discloses.”
	Lecture 2.—Responsibilities.
	a. In the nurse of power it is obvious that
man has to do with two different kinds of
responsibility, viz., individually and collect-
vely. (Our Home, p. 405.) b. Home-
making, order, cleanliness, love, patience,
endurance, and good environments.


[Column 1]
Lecture 3.—Nature Study.
	a. Give the children a piece of ground to
cultivate and plant with grain, vegetables
and flowers. Teach them how to irrigate,
cultivate and care for it. b. Teach them to
study and love the bird kingdom. Teach
them how to care for and love animals, to
love nature, for God hath created it for the
use of man. (Gen. 1 and 2 chapters.)

Lecture 4.—Our Children are Precious
			Jewels.
a. The little children all, are flowers sent
	from heavenly gardens above,
With minds as fresh as new-turned earth,
	to be planted deep with love,
And the years of our care will quickly
	tell,
The flowers our gardeners love so well.

	Teach the children they have come to fill
a mission, instruct them in the principles of
of the Gospel (Doc. and Cov. 68:25.) b.
Teach them that obedience is better than
sacrifice (Doc. and Cov. 68: 31.) We can-
not devote too much of our time to the pol-
shing of our jewels, they are God’s gifts to
us. “Suffer little children to come unto me
and forbid them not, for of such is the king-
dom of heaven” (Mark 10: 14.)

Lecture 5.—Preparation for the Future.
	a. The progress we make here goes with
us into eternity (Doc. and Cov. 85: 118.)
b.We owe a duty to our children’s future
mates. Teach the boys to put their clothes,
books, etc., away neatly, and thus they will
be helpful rather than a hindrance, not only
to mother but to their future wives. c. Story
telling as a means of education for our chil-
dren. As much as possible let your stories
be of noble deeds and actions that will show
the folly of wrong habits, viz., selfishness,
dleness, slothfulness, etc., overcome evil
tendencies not by punishment, but by con-
tinual direction of the mind to something
higher and nobler.

Lecture 6.—The Sin of Gossip.
	a. Be not hasty in condemning others,
speak of their good qualities, rather than
their misdeeds, we might do things that
are just as wrong if we were placed in simi-
lar circumstances. “Judge not that ye be
not judged, for with what judgment ye judge
others ye shall be judged (Matt. 7: 1.)

Judge not that ye be not judged, for ’tis
	high to be a judge.
If I would be pure and holy, I must love
	without a grudge.

	Have some subject for discussion at sew-
ing bees and work meetings. Have respect
for all God’s creatures, for ridicule is the
weapon of the ignorant, A plain face and
plain clothing should not be the basis of our
estimate of people. Value the conduct and
the. qualities of the mind above all else.

Lecture 7. —Our Bodies are Temples of the
Living God (Doc. and Cov. 93: 35.)

We gaze at the wonders of nature,
	We reflect on God’s excellent plan,
The earth in its grandeur, the heavens and
		seas,.
	But his most beautiful work is man.

	a. Teach our children to keep their bodies
clean and pure. Teach them the value of
deep breathing, fresh air, exercises, and of
standing erect. We are made in the image
of God, and should keep that image as per-
fect as possible.

[Column 2]
Lecture 8.—Parables.—The Ten Talents
(Matt. 25: 14-30)
	a. What talent do I possess? Do I culti-
vate it? Patience, faith, cheerfulness. The
power to instruct or comfort others, or any-
thing that tends to make life better or
brighter, are talents which should be culti-
vated. b. It is selfish for mothers to devote
all of their time to their families. Benefits
from working in Church organizations.
Woman’s advancement depends on her own
efforts and not entirely on her husband’s.
The first requirement to successful life in any
capacity is to love the work.

Lecture 9.—Place of Worship is Holy.
	a. Teach the children to be quiet and
orderly in the house of God; it is wrong to
let the little ones run and play in the aisles,
and for the older ones to whisper and make
a disturbance during services, these things
are displeasing to our heavenly Fath-
er, and an offense to our friends who visit
our places of worship, for the house of God
is a house of order.

Lecture 10—A good Woman and a Good
Worker are Separable.
	a. A home woman, one who reigns as
queen in her own home, by administering to
the wants of her family.
	“Blessed is the homemaker, for her hap-
piness shall be multiplied.
	b. Blessed is the worker who hath pleas-
ure in her labors, for joy will crown her
efforts (Doc. and Cov. sec. 15.)
	In combining these qualities we often
make a failure.
	c. Holding too many offices is detrimental
to both home and organizations (Personal
observations.)

Lesson 11—True Object of Relief Society
Work.
	a. Visiting the sick, effects of cheerful
company, looking after the poor. Im-
provement in home life. b. Responsibility
of teaching the gospel a very essential duty.
(Mark 15: 16.)

Lecture 12.
	Review and discussion of benefits derived
from Mothers’ Work of year’s study.
				LUCY A. STEERS,
				JULIETTE BLACKBURN,
				SARAH J. DALTON,
Relief Society Stake Presidency.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Allwise Heavenly Father has seen
fit to take back into His presence our much es-
teemed Sister Mary Ann Atkin, who departed this
life on February 6, 1908, being 69 years old, and
	Whereas she was the President of the Tooele
Relief Society for several years, having resigned
a year or so ago on account of failing health. In
this capacity she was a kind, dutiful leader, which
endeared her to all having the pleasure of know-
ing her.
	She set an example worthy of imitation in her
every walk in life.
	Therefore;—Be it resolved that we, the members
of the Tooele Ward Relief Society, who do so
keenly feel her loss, endeavor to follow the ex-
ample she set before us and keep in mind the
kindly advice she gave.
	Resolved that this resolution be recorded and a
copy of same be handed to the bereaved family
and one sent to be published in the Woman’s
Exponent.
				R. ALICE MCBRIDE,
						President.
				ADDIE VOWLES, Secretary.


TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
To the memory of Sister Elizabeth Stratton Skin-
ner, born at Graves End, Kent Co., England,
			April 23, 1855.
	Whereas we the sisters of the Graham Ward
Relief Society have been called to part with our
beloved President, who was called to the great
beyond Sunday, March 1, 1908. We do feel to
appreciate her labors, for she was indeed an un-
selfish worker; and through her patience love, and
self-sacrifice we do feel and know much good has
been accomplished. She was ever at the post of
duty even to the day she died. It can truly be
said of her, the world is better for her having
lived in it.
	In 1883, Sister Skinner was chosen Secretary of
the Relief Society in the Graham Ward and in
1885 she was chosen President of the Primary and
held both offices for 10 years. In 1896, she was
appointed President of the Relief Society of the
Graham Ward, which office she held until her
death. Therefore be it resolved, that we do truly
feel to sympathize with her dear husband and
children. And we pray that God’s healing influ-
ence may ever be near to soothe their lacerated
hearts, and that a copy of these resolutions be
given to them.
				MARY A. PETERSON,
				MARY E. TALLEY,
				HATTIE B. SKINNER,
							Committee.
Graham, Arizona.
				IN MEMORY.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Elizabeth Thornton, once a member of the Glen-
wood Ward, who passed away September 13th,
1907, after a long illness.
	Sister Thornton was a faithful Latter-day Saint.
For many years she was a constant worker in the
Manti Temple, and previous to that time held the
position as counselor to President Mary Ann
Buchanan, in the Glenwood Relief Society, which
position she filled with honor.
	Resolved by the sisters of the Glenwood Relief
Society, that we mourn our loss and that we ap-
preciate the purity of her life and the worthy ex-
ample she has set us to follow.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be re-
corded in the records of our society, also a copy
be sent to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion.
			DINAH JACKSON, President,
			MARGARET S. PAYNE, 1st. Coun.
			JOSEPHINE BELL, 2nd Coun.
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Our Beloved Sister Annie J. Wixom died, on
Sunday afternoon, December 22nd, 1907.
	Annie Jackson Wixom was the daughter of
George and Louisa Jackson; was born October
10th, 1846, in Shirdington, Gloucestershire, Eng-
land. At the age of ten years she became a mem-
ber of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, emigrated to Utah 1866. In the same year,
on October 13th, she became the wife of Justin C.
Wixom. In November 1866 they moved to Brig-
ham City.
	In 1878, when the Y. L. M. I. Association was
first organized in the 2nd ward Brigham City, she
was called to act as president, which position she
held with great credit for a number of years. She
also acted as teacher in the Relief Society in the
same ward for some years.
	June 13th, 1893, she was called and sustained
as Recording Secretary on the Stake Board of the
Relief Society of Box Elder, which position she
held with efficiency until the time of her death;
she also held the position of City Treasurer for
two terms.
	She loved the gospel and was an energetic and
faithful worker in the different positions she held.
	She was a sweet singer and was a faithful mem-
ber of the Brigham City Tabernacle Choir for 40
years.
	Annie J. Wixom had a kind and benevolent
heart, a pleasant, cheerful disposition, which won
for her, the love and friendship of all her co-labo-
rers and associates; she will be held in loving re-
membrance for her many noble qualities of mind
and heart.
		Lovingly from her Co-laborers
			SUSANNA P BOOTH, President.
			EMILIA D. MADSON,
			MARY J. HARDING, Counselors.
			LULA B. CALL, Cor. Secty.
			ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD, Asst. Sec.
			FANNY GRAEHL, Treasurer.


A TRIBUTE.
To the memory of Isadora Jardiue Thompson,
	who departed this life February 9th, 1908.
	Deceased was 49 years 9 months and 19 days
old, was the daughter of James and Isabella Jar-
dine, West Weber, Utah. She was born April 21st,
1858, in Jackson, Illinois. She moved with her
parents to Wellsville, Utah, and from there to
West Weber, Utah. She was married to Hyrum
C. Thompson in July, 1873. Brother and Sister
Thompson and family moved to Wilford, Idaho,
in May, 1887, where they lived till St. Anthony
was organized. Sister Thompson was Secretary
for the North Wilford Sunday School for a num-
ber of years. Also Counselor to the Relief Society
for a long time. And was First Counselor to the
President of the Relief Society of St. Anthony at
the time of her death. She was the mother of 14
children, 12 of whom survive her. She leaves a
devoted husband, 9 sons and 3 daughters, 4 sisters
and two brothers to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held in the L. D. S.
Church February 13th; Bishop Jos. E. Fogg con-
ducting.
				RESOLUTIONS.
	Be it resolved that we the sisters of  the Woman’s
Relief Society of the St. Anthony Ward do most
deeply mourn the loss of so faithful a sister.
	And we do feel it is hard to become reconciled
to her death. But we are willing to bow in humble
submission to our Father’s will.
	Be it resolved that we extend our heart felt
sympathy to her husband, children, parents,
brothers and sisters, and ask God to bless them
and make them feel that he is their friend.
	Be it further resolved that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of the Local Relief So-
ciety a copy given  to the bereaved family of the
deceased and a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EX-
PONENT.
			SARAH J. STIMPSON, President.
			LOVISA THORNTON, 2nd Counselor.
			SARAH R. TAYLOR, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS. 
	Miss Beatrice Harraden is busy travel-
ing from place to place in England giving
readings from “Ships That Pass in the
Night,” and her other books, to raise money
to help the suffrage cause.
	Five thousand rose bushes were planted
in the city parks on Washington’s birthday
by the school children of Portland, Oregon:
If the woman suffrage amendment should be
carried next June, the bouquets will be all
ready,
	Daniel Read Anthony, Jr., the new mem-
ber of Congress from Leavenworth, Kan., is
a nephew of Susan B. Anthony. Although
a lawyer by profession, Mr. Anthony has
been engaged in newspaper work all his life,
and is at present editor of the Leavenworth
Times, which he inherited from his father.
	Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt and Mrs. Ida
H. Harper sailed on the New Amsterdam
for Holland April 17, to attend the coming
convention of the International Woman
Suffrage Alliance. Afterwards they plan to
visit Finland, St. Petersburg, Moscow, Buda
Pesth, Vienna and Switzerland, taking in
the executive meeting of the international 
Council of Women to be held in Geneva in 
September and later going to Spain.
	Mrs. Gertrude Barney has been elected
city collector of Montgomery, Mo., on the
Rebublican and Prohibition tickets. The 
city council have refused to issue a com-


mission to her on the ground that a woman
is not eligible. Her friends, however have
evolved a plan whereby she can to all intents
and purposes hold the office. They propose
to elect Mrs. Barney’s aged father as col-
lector at a special election and have him
appoint her his deputy. In that way she will
receive the salary attached to the office and
be collector in everything but name.—Ex.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE U. W. PRESS CLUB,
From October 31, 1901 to October 31, 1906,
	with a brief history of the first decade.
	Lydia D. Alder historian.
		(Continued from page 48.)
	Mention was made at this meeting of
the special conference of the Mormon
Church, held November 10, 1901, and the
installation of Joseph F. Smith as the
President of the Church, and the election
of Bathsheba W. Smith as President of
the Relief Society in all the world.
	At the January meeting, 1902, Mrs. E.
B. Wells reported that the case of books
made up by the Club (who also paid for
the case), be brought here (Exponent
office), from whence it would be sent to
the Ladies’ Literary Club House. It
would then be sent out with the other
cases of the Traveling Library.
	At the February meeting, 1902, Mrs.
McVicker was appointed as the Club’s
delegate to the biennial convention to be
held in Los Angeles in May, 1902.
	A motion waa made and carried at this
meeting that the Club subscribe for the
“Club Woman.” An article was read
and commented on, “The Mellowing of
Occasions,” from a copy of the same.
	This being the birthday of our Hon.
president, Mrs. E. B. Wells, good wishes
in her behalf were expressed by all the
members present. Mrs. Wells being out
of the city could not meet with us.
	At the March meeting of 1902, Mrs.
Bickford addressed the Club on State and
General Federation, and spoke of the
coming biennial.
	Mrs. Wells spoke of her visit to Hull
House, Chicago, giving an interesting ac-
count of the same.
	The closing meeting of the season was
held at the house of the president, Mrs.
Alder, who gave a talk on her recent visit
to Scotland, including the cities of Glas-
gow, Edinburgh and Stirling.
	She spoke somewhat at length of Ar-
thur’s Seat in Edinburgh, and the visit of
Parley P. Pratt to that noted place, which
overlooks the whole of Edinburgh. Bro.
Pratt, but newly arrived in the city, knelt
on this famous Arthur’s Seat, his eyes
resting on the city below and prayed to the
Lord to give him two hundred souls out
of that city, and he would be satisfied.
This the Lord did, just two hundred, no
more, no less. Mrs. Alder also spoke of
her ride through the Trossacks (by coaeh
and boat), and her sail on Loch Lomond.
	Miss May Alder recited one of her
mother’s poems, “Mary Queen of Scots.”
Mrs. George D. Alder sang beautifully,

[Column 2]
accompanied by Prof. Schettler on the
guitar,who also played “My Old Kentucky
Home” and “O My Father,” in his talent-
ed style. At this meeting Mrs. Alder had
invited the Reapers’ Club, and some of
her close friends.
	At the September meeting, 1902, the
president, Mrs. Alder, gave an interesting
account of her visit to the Countess of
Warwick, while she was in England, and
the efforts of the Countess to better the
condition of the poor girls in Birmingham.
Said all but two of the pen manufacturers
had been won over by the countess, who
was hopeful of good results from her ef-
forts to aid these poor girls (unskiilled
labor they are called).
	Mrs. Emma McVicker, our delegate to
Los Angeles, gave an account of the bien-
nial, also a Greek play she had seen, and
her visit to the club called Strawberry.
The account of her visit to the battleship
Wisconsin was truly appreciated.
	At the business meeting, held October,
1902, Mrs. R. B. Pratt was named as the
delegate to the Federation, to be held
in Ogden this month. Mrs. Alder, the
president, also attended the Federation.
	Miss Estella Neff, in Current Events, spoke
of the honor conferred on Miss Nannie Tout,
who had been invited to sing before Queen
Alexandria, and referred to others of our
Utah boys and girls who were studying
abroad, in Paris, England and Germany,
who had won honors in painting and sculp-
ture, as well as music. An address of in-
terest was given by Mrs. Ida Haag, on the
Russo-Japanese War.
	At the April meeting of the Club, held in
the Exponent office, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark re-
ported the meeting of the Federation Pro-
gram Committee and stated that an original
contribution had been requested from the
Press Club.
	Mrs. Francis gave a lecture on India and
East India life, which concluded the program.
	At the May meeting, held on the 29th of
that month, it was moved and carried that
the Club adjourn until September. Mrs.
Clark, the President, invited the Club to
meet her at the Lagoon, June 25th, 1904.
	On that occasion the Club and the mem-
bers of the General Board of the Primary
Associations were the guests of President
Clark. A delightful time was spent at the
Resort, where the guests were entertained
by Mrs. Clark, her daughter and friends.
An enjoyable program was carried out. All
present were unanimous in their opinion
that the meeting was the most enjoyable of
the season.
	At the September meeting of the Club,
Mrs. E. S. Wilcox gave a most interesting
account of the chief objects of interest at the
World’s Fair, just held at St. Louis. Mrs.
Mary F. Kelly submitted two original poems
to the committee of adjudicators, for trans-
mission to the Federation of Women’s Clubs
at Logan. Mrs. Clark, President, and Mrs.
Estella Neff were appointed as delegates to
the State Federation of Clubs, October 20th,
1904, at Logan, and Mrs. M. Francis and Mrs.
Mary Kelly were appointed as alternates.
	The October meeting (the annual) was
held October 29th, 1904, at the home of Mrs.
Francis and Mrs. Kelly, 333 Second Street.
The election of officers resulted in the elec-
tion of Mrs. Maria Francis as President; Miss
Stella Neff, First Vice President; Mrs. Lillian
Maeser, Second Vice President; Mrs. E. S.
Wilcox, Secretary; Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, Cor.
Sec.; Mrs. Hattie Harker, Treasurer.
			(To be Continued.)


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you 
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 36.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1908.						No. 9.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions..................Emmeline B. Wells	65
A Book of Verse............................The Editor	67
The Alps..................................Lydia D. Alder	70
History of the U. W. Press Club.....................
	........................................Lydia D. Alder	71
Mothers’ Work:—Millard Stake.....................	70
Relief Society Stake Reports: Millard—Alpine	72
In Memoriam..................................................	67
In Memoriam..................................................	69
Caroline E. Partridge Lyman..........................	69
Resolutions of Respect...................................	70
In Memoriam..................................................	70
An Artistic Booklet.........................................	68
Editorial:—A Delightful Reception................	68
	McDonald Golden Wedding...................
	Honors.....................................................
Poetry:––An Eastern Anthem.........................
	...............................MARY KELLY PYE	65


AN EASTER ANTHEM
The birds are singing in the boughs,
	Their glad notes greet our ears,
While on the trees and meadowlands,
	The sign of spring appears.
From winter’s bondage freed at last,
	In joyous minstrelsy
They sing to praise their Risen Lord,
	An Anthem of the free.
“The Lord is Risen,” sing the birds,
	And buried in the gloom
The little seedlets burst their bonds
	To rise to life and bloom;
The insect with the birds unite,
	In joyous minstrelsy,
They sing to praise their Risen Lord,
	An Anthem of the free.
‘The Lord is Risen,” mortals all,
	Shall we refuse our praise?
Shall we alone of all the blest,
	Refuse our song to raise?
From sin’s dark bondage freed at last,
	In joyous minstrelsy,
We’ll sing to praise our Risen Lord,
	An Anthem of the free.
					MARY KELLY PYE


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	In contemplating the lives of the women
of the past among our people, one cannot
help feeling that they were women of destiny
called and chosen to help in laying the
foundation of the Latter-day work in this
last dispensation.
	One of the most heroic and remarkable
among these early pioneers in the Church
was Presendia Huntington Kimball. She
was possessed of wonderful vital power and
influence. She had the faculty of drawing
people around her, who looked up to her
for advice and instruction, and she never
failed in knowing what to say, and how to
satisfy them.
	Her knowledge of affairs outside of
woman’s domain was extensive and extra-
ordinary. She had the ability of a good
farmer, cultivated trees, vines, shrubbery,

[Column 2]
and all she planted grew and flourished and
ripened; she had been trained in the home
industries of carding, spinning, dyeing and
all that pertained to the home economy.
Sister Presendia was a good judge of stock
and domestic animals, cows sheep, or
horses, one might say by instinct, knew all
the good and bad points, could ride or drive
any horse that a man could manage, and
drove her own team across the plains into
the valley. Besides the admirable qualities
not usually found so strongly developed in
women, she had superior mental and spirit-
ual qualifications that corresponded with
the physical endowments. She was a wom-
an of power in all religious lines, gifted in
prayer and in blessing, not only with words
but with manifest inspirational power, and
was frequently selected on great occasions
on account of this uncommon gift, to pray
in large public gatherings and assemblies.
She had a very good, far-reaching voice,
which is quite exceptional among women
speakers, even those who have had training
along the lines of public speaking, culture
of the voice and so forth. Sister Kimball
was a natural platform speaker, and she
reasoned well on all subjects of every day
life, and questions of public interest and
welfare, law and order; she was thoroughly
versed in the scriptures, could converse
intelligently with ministers of all denomina-
tions, and was often prophetic in her utter-
ances.
	She was a woman who seemingly knew
how to meet every emergency, and to be able
to conquer every difficulty that came in her
way, totally without fear, brave in the truest
sense, and self-possessed amid scenes of
misfortune or calamities, more so than any
woman I have ever known in my wide ex-
perience of womankind. There is no doubt
of her having the revolutionary blood of her
ancestors in her veins.
	sister Kimball, like her younger sister,
Zina Huntington Young, possessed that
natural gift of healing that is so manifest in
those whom we speak of as “born nurses,”
The sick came to her to be administered to,
I might say daily; she not only had great
faith, but she inspired faith and confidence
in those to whom she ministered. Doubt-
less she would have made a skilled surgeon,
in fact she had acted in that capacity in set-
ting broken limbs when there were no doc-
tors at hand. Sister Presendia was tall,
large and well-proportioned, she carried
herself well, and would be notable among a
crowd; she looked to be exactly what she
really was, a woman of extraordinary capa-
bilities, could fill almost any position in life
that required moral power and force of
character. I think I may safely say with-
out fear of contradiction, that she blest
more of the humble and lowly sisters than
any other one sister in the Church.
	Sister Kimball’s life was not a bed of
roses; there were more thorns, thistles and
briers in the way; indeed she had passed, as
it were, through a fiery furnace. There were
many deaths, too, in her large family, and
one particularly sad. Early after coming to
the valley, a very beautiful little girl was
born to her, and when the child was of the

[Column 3]
most interesting age, she fell in City Creek,
and though help was at hand the child was
dead.
	Both parents mourned greatly over the un-
timely death of the little girl, who had been
namedCelestia,and indeed she seemed purely
celestial. Such ordeals are indeed sorrow-
ful.
	One of the episodes in Sister Presendia’s
life to which she often referred with tender
pride and satisfaction was her two visits to
Liberty jail in Missouri, when Joseph the
Prophet and his brother Hyrum, the Patri-
arch, were incarcerated there at the time of
the mobbing of the Saints in Missouri.
	Sister Presendia’s first visit was in com-
pany with Father Huntington, Heber C.
Kimball and Alanson Ripley. A second
visit was made with Frederic G. Williams,
at one time Counselor to President Joseph
Smith. This visit was a comfort to Sister
Presendia as long as she lived; she also had
a personal letter from the Prophet Joseph,
written while he was in prison, which she
considered her choicest treasure as long as
she lived.
	Sister Presendia made a profound impres-
sion upon her friends and associates, and
especially upon strangers, from her genial
manner and grand appearance, she was like
one would expect the revolutionary mothers
were, as valiant as those who fought for
liberty, but who bore their brunt of the bat-
tle at home, without receiving the honor.
	Presendia Lathrop Huntington Kimball
was born at Watertown, New York, Septem-
ber 7, 1810. Died at Salt Lake City, Utah,
February 1, 1892.
	In writing of these notable women of the
past, I am doing so from my own point of
view and personal observation, and as
things appealed to me, and the memories I
cherish of them, that I am anxious to hand
down to the young women of today and of
the future. Each one of whom I write has
been my personal friend, and of most of
them I have published biographies while
living, and I feel that I know their sterliag
worth to the community in which they lived
and labored-
	Among those women of the past whom I
dearly loved, I count one among the dear-
est, Elizabeth Howard, we called her our
representative Irish woman, and she was
fond of tho title; for she dearly loved her
country.
	In her person she was a magnificent speci
men of womanhood. She had been carefully
educated, and her opportunities for culture
had been excellent. Her father was a man
of broad and advanced views, and she had
learned much of public matters concerning
Ireland by listening to the conversation of
Irish gentlemen who visited her father’s
house. This had been helpful in broaden-
ing her own mind and her views of life and
its affairs. Moreover, she was so amiable
and tactful in presenting her side of the
question, that she made friends of those who
held entirely adverse opinions.
	The younger people were very fond of her
society, she was vivacious, witty, winning
and attractive. Sister Howard was always


[Column 1]
heartily welcomed in any company, and
infused an element of cheerfulness by her
buoyant and whole-souled nature. She was
indeed a host in herself, and entertaining in
any circle wherever she went, genial and
brilliant in conversation, animated and
beaming with good spirits in her counten-
ance, so that it did one good even to look
into her face; her friends can never forget her
cordial warm-heartedness in all places and
at all times. Sister Howard was a gifted
speaker, had a full, round-toned voice, and
was never at a loss for words to express her
sentiments.
	Elizabeth Howard was one of the few
women in the early days who dressed well,
who had rich clothing and handsome jew-
elry, yet she carried herself in such a becom-
ing manner, that one never felt embarrassed
because she was better dressed she was gen-
erous in giving to her friends and to the
needy; it seemed to be a part of her nature;
her house parties and garden parties were a
source of delight and pleasure, she knew
perfectly well how to entertain either small
or large crowds. In those days when so few
people could entertain sumptuously, the
Howard home on Cottonwood, was a resort
for the young folks, who wanted to have a
good time. Luckily for the Howards there
were no street cars, and the distance from
the city was too far to walk, but those who
could drive out enjoyed the open-hearted
hospitality of the Howards, and those of us
who loved rare china, cut glass and silver-
ware and fine Irish table linen, of which
there was a scarcity in those days, were sure
to be favored with a sight of these luxuries
on occasions when Sister Howard enter-
tained her special friends. Sister Howard
was what might well be termed, once your
friend, always your friend, a good com-
rade, she was worth cultivating; was strong
in her attachments, affectionate and sym-
pathetic. Her faith in the Gospel was firm
and steadfast, and she loved to labor for the
cause of truth, and the advancement and
onward progress of women’s work in the
Church.
	Sister Howard was one of the formost
champions of equal suffrage and participa-
tion of women in the affairs of education
and government. She was a fine mission-
ary, never cared for the hard ships of journey-
ings, when jolting over rough roads in lum-
ber wagons, she was a most delightful com-
panion she had always been, and was dur-
ing her life a great reader, and her mind was
stored with useful knowledge, history,
peotry and fiction, and her Irish wit was
helpful in keeping up one’s spirits when
everything went wrong. We have been to-
gether in some dangerous places, but her
courage was always equal to the hour and
the difficulty, and she was so full of vigor
and elasticity of spirits that one felt more
confident of the outcome being favorable
after all, because of her assured optimism.
	A lover of nature and outdoor freedom,
she rejoiced in beautiful scenery, far away
from the “madding crowd.” It was per-
haps this element in her that made her such
a good traveler even under difficulties she
was a woman who enjoyed life in its com-
plete fulness; yet over and above all she ap-
preciated the Gospel and believed and ac-
cepted all the principles revealed in this
day and dispensation through the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Notwithstanding her light-
heartedness and buoyancy of spirit which
carried her easier over every rough place in
life, yet deep down in her soul was the un-
fying love of the truth, for which she left

[Column 2]
her native land and kindred, and for which
she was ready to make any sacrifice re-
quired. Such women are a joy along the
pathway of other people’s lives; they help
to lighten the load of care that is a part of
all our lives here in this mortal existence.
We cannot cherish the memory of such grand
and noble women too sacredly. Women
who have accomplished something worthy
of record on the pages of history. Sister
Howard died away from home while filling
an appointment for the Relief Society.
	Elizabeth Anderson Howard was born at
Carlow, Carlow, Co., Ireland, July 12, 1823.
Died in Grantsville, Tooele Co., Utah,
March 12, 1893.
	Although it may appear to many even of
our own people that the women of the Lat-
ter-doy Saints are much alike, and that the
record of one serves as a sample of many,
yet to one who knows them intimately, one
finds them very distinctive; and each one a
study in herself.
	Even Puritan women are dissimilar, and
each has her peculiar traits and personality.
Long ago when the office of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT was on the corner of State and
South Temple streets where the Alta Club
is today, I wrote a biographical sketch of
Mrs. Mary Ann Angell Young under her
own direction, and she approved it, and
now I wish to tell in a few paragraphs my
personal impressions of the life and charac-
ter of this illustrious woman; wife of Presi-
dent Brigham Young, founder of Utah and
its first Governor.
	Mrs. Young was the Puritan type in the
extreme religious sense; she was of a de-
cidedly spiritual nature; and when younger
must have been the maiden type too per-
sonified; had she remained in her home in
Providence, Rhode Island, in the Baptist
church of which she was a member, she
would probably never have married; in fact
she had made up her mind, never to marry,
unless she could find “A man of God.”
	I met Mrs. Young first in Nauvoo and
was greatly impressed by what I heard of
her from those who had known her in Kirt.
land; and when in closer association at the
time of the exodus and journeying west-
ward, and in nearer proximity during the
period of our stay in Winter Quarters; and
even after until the time of her death, I feel
no hesitancy in calling her one of the fam-
ous women of the Church; one who came to
great honor and who bore all trials, priva-
tions, honors, and affluence, like a Saint of
God in meekness and humility. Her ben-
evolence was far reaching and unquestion-
able, always apparent when the slightest
call was made upon her, for assistance; like
her illustrious husband who said he would
“rather help nine who were unworthy than to
let one who was worthy suffer.” Mrs.
Young in her early life had been a student-
of the Bible, a Sunday School teacher in the
Baptist church in Providence; and she had
been particularly interested in studying an-
cient prophecies; therefore she compre-
hended the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints when she heard the Elders
preaching it in its fulness. She also jour-
neyed to Kirtland alone as Phebe Carter
Woodruff did.
	Thinking of Mrs Young as I knew her in
the various trying ordeals and circumstan-
ces through which she passed, I can truly
say she was of the exceptional spiritual
type, and a most fitting example of sim-
plicity of faith, that believes without ques-
tioning, and would make any sacrifice of her

[Column 3]
own feelings, and desires in obedience to the
commandments of God.
	In adversity, in poverty, with sickness to
contend with, her faith never failed, she al-
ways looked upward from whence help
would come.
	In some instances her faith was child-like
so sure was she of results; but it conquered
and overcome such obstacles as few women
have had to meet. A striking illustration
of this and of her self-possession or presence
of mind was manifested when she miracul-
ously saved her husband’s life, she was alone
with him in an attack of apoplexy and to
all appearance he was dead; he himself de-
clared afterwards that he was dead, there
was no sign of life whatever.
	After the toils and hardships and mob-
bings and drivings of Kirtland, Far West
and Nauvoo and the experiences of the exo-
dus and of Winter Quarters, when in the
valley of Salt Lake the Saints became more
prosperous and Brigham Young was made
Governor of the Territory, and it fell to the
lot of Mrs. Mary Ann Young to entertain the
guests of the Chief Executive of Utah or
Deseret—she was quite equal to the situ-
ation, and though the home was primitive,
(for the term of office began before the Bee
Hive was built) the white house on the hill
was the one mansion then, yet Mrs. Young
seemed as much at ease in doing the honors
of the Governor’s home as when receiving
the brethren and sisters in her log cabin in
Winter Quarters; and let it be remembered
Brigham Young entertained all the great
people of wealth, rank, and station, not
only those who came hither, but many of
those who passed through this way to Cali-
fornia and the great Northwest. Mrs. Young
had the happy faculty of adaptability, and
she was so well versed in Scripture lore, and
in the Book of Mormon, and had passed
through such varied experiences, that she
was never at a loss for subjects of conversa-
tion in any company. Sister Young was
always dignified, as much so in the kitchen
as in the parlor; she was not a woman who
sought or cared for publicity; she loved re-
tirement in her own home. Mrs. Young
did not even care for the Gardo after she
moved into it, and preferred the White
House on the hill, yet she had filled with
credit the highest social place of distinction
as the wife of the President of the Church
and the wife of the Governor of the Terri-
tory. There was no assumption of power in
her manner, no arrogance, she simply ac-
cepted the honors with the modesty of the
old fashioned Puritan mother. All her na-
ture and inherited ideas revolted at the
thought of show, or of doing things for the
sake of appearances; she had the New Eng-
land ideas of propriety, and reposefulness of
manner, a touch of Quakerism, that shrank
from notoriety.
	The writer had many long talks with Mrs.
Young while preparing the biography al-
luded to, and realized and appreciated more
fully the striking worth of one who had made
tremendous sacrifices for principle, and had
such unbounded integrity, such implicit
faith and confidence in the mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors in
office. I really feel that it is a good part of
higher education to get to the heart and
inner life of such noble and good women,
who have stood side by side, and shoulder
to shoulder with the greatest men in the
Church, and in the dispensation that we re-
alize and know is to be the greatest of all
dispensations upon this earth. All honor
to such women as Mary Ann Angell Young.


We might well quote these famous words
of the poet Milton in this connection:
		“What thou biddest
Unargued I obey; so God ordains;
God is thy law; thou mine; to know no more
Is woman’s happiest knowledge and her praise.”
	Mary Ann Angell Young, born in Seneca,
New York, June 8, 1803, died in Salt
Lake City, Utah, June 27, 1882.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		A BOOK OF VERSE.
	Alfred Lambourne, poet and artist has
another new book surpassing in style and
value, in all respects, perhaps, any of the
smaller volumes of his, previously given to
the public; the book must be classed as
artistically beautiful, and it is in keeping,
so far as its general appearance is concerned
with his story of “Plet” and “Poems of
Holly and Easter Lilies.” The new book
has the simple title “A Book of Verse,” but
the contents are in every respect superb.
	The frontispiece is an exquisite portrait
from life of the author, and is in every de-
tail perfect, and in every touch and expres-
sion. It is the work of M. M. Young, art-
ist and sculptor, a native son of Utah, and
a genius in his line of art. The title page
and inscription are by Lee Greene Richards,
whose name and fame are becoming well-
known in Utah and abroad; they are very
unique, and give the impression of some-
thing classical. Illustrative designs here
and there in the book are by the two artists
who are doing much in helping to make
Utah famous, J. L. Harwood and Lee
Greene Richards. These designs are dainty
in fineness and add much to the artistic
taste of the book itself, and to the delight
of the readers of the poetic effusions so ex-
quisitely wrought into verse pictures.
	The Contents given by the author are:
I “Three Season’s Flowers,” [dedicated to
Lillian]. II “Cicidas In Home Sweet Home”
[To Minnie.]
	We regret that we are not competent to
give the author’s own ideas of the illustra-
tions, but as we gaze upon them we find
they speak to us in a language we are incap-
able of putting into words, it is the lan-
guage of the soul.
	The first poem in “Three Season’s Flow-
ers” is the lilac, and one must read it to
get an idea of its soulful significance, it
speaks volumes to a lover of this garden
shrub, when in flower. The writer can only
quote a verse or two of what appeals most
tenderly to her:
“With moisture strange the lilacs fill mine eyes,
	A gladsome dew'that glistens into tears;
Entranced I stand, lost in a sweet surprise,
	While joys divine come back from out the
		years.”
	Another verse we unust quote which
struck the writer as quite an original idea
and very fanciful.
“O, what the secret that these blossoms hold—
	Which they unto the primal purpose owe?
O, what the occult life these leaves unfold.
	From golden age that antedated woe?”
	It appears that the author has selected
three flowers to express beautiful and pure
thoughts, and every line contains thought-
food for the student of literature.
	The second season, “The Rose,” midsum-
mer blossom, the favorite flower of many peo-
ple and indeed of nations, one might say; its
richness, its splendor, its ravishing beauty,

[Column 2]
its peerlessness, in short it might be called
a symbol of triumph and of victory; and is
styled classically “queen of flowers.” To
choose which verse t’were best to quote, or
which conveys most exquisiteness of senti-
ment, one cannot tell as one reads the poem
over and over, but we will venture to give
one or two verses in this random writing.
“In this full time, this hey-day of the year,
	My soul en rapport with the fairness wrought
Here with the queenly rose doth own the sphere—
	All earth possess, in luxury of thought.”
	The writer closes this delicious poem with
the verse which is probably the climax of the
poet’s idea.
“With honeyed wealth of life the moments teem,
	And heart to heart melts in delicious swoon.
Can aught of fear or strife disturb love’s dream,
	Made perfect by the roses, gift of June?”
	Mr. Lambourne speaks gracefully of the
Chrysanthemums’ lives beginning when the
others die:
“Strange lives that come to make a round com-
		plete;
	Blossom and flower surviving numberless;
’Tis but a world all pallid now they greet,
	Companionship to keep with weariness.”
In harmony they come with this drear morn,
	When wrapt in chilly mist all nature grieves,
Delivers to the year her latest born,
	Nipt by the hoar frost, hid by the drifting
		leaves.”
	Mr. Lambourne requested the writer to
read the poem “Cicidas in Home Sweet
Home,” when alone at night; we informed
him we had already read the poem when
alone very late at night, when the full moon
was bright, since then it has been read more
than once, and we think that the author has
drunk deep draughts at the Pierian spring.
“What dearer moment can the future give,
	Than this wherein a thousand transports
		crowd?
The loves of dead ancestors once more live.
	Within my heart, they cry to me aloud.”
“The Fields Lethean are this moment mine,
	As though my soul emerged from out the wave,
By that bright shore, where starry clusters shine,
	The Isles of Peace, that Lethe’s waters lave.”
“A sweet forgetfulness from self I find.
	Lost ’mid the cadences of verse and song;
The overflow from one glad heart combined.
	With gleeful clamor of night’s winged throng.”
	Mr. Lambourne may feel justly proud of
the book the production of one of Utah’s
geniuses, and believe that the coming gener-
ation of the sons and daughters of the vales
of the West, born amid the grandest scenery
on the American continent, with a goodly
legacy of knowledge bequeathed to them
through the efforts of the founders of this
commonwealth in establishing educational
institutions, may be able to fully appreciate
the classical works of such poets as O. F.
Whitney, Alfred Lambourne, and Henry W.
Naisbitt, after they are gone, as they do
not seem to while they live. One wonders
why dead poets are more widely honored
and recognized years after they have passed
away, than while they sojourned among
their contemporaries.
					THE EDITOR.


Princess Letitia, who is also Duchess of
Aosto, and Honorary President of the Pied-
montese branch of the Italian National
Council of Women, presided at the recent
Congress of Women in Rome.


IN MEMORIAM.
	It is with feelings of profound sorrow and
grief, that we, the officers and members of
the Relief Society of the Weber Stake of
Zion, express our heartfelt sympathy, and
extend words of condolence to those whom
we love, honor and revere. Those who in
the decree of an All-wise Father, have been
called upon to part for a brief season, with
one most truly loved.
	Sister Louie Shurtliff Smith was one in
whom shone all the virtues known to human- 
ity. Queenlike, regal in her mien, yet with-
al so gentle, just and kind, the, innate beau-
ty showed the exquisite touches of the Mas-
ter’s hand.
	She was as the sunbeam breaking through
the cloud. Her pure, chaste life was ever
an inspiration.
	As a daughter she was all that the name
implies, all that a daughter could be. As
a sister, loving, beloved and revered. A
wife, the helpmeet, companion, and coun-
selor of her husband. A mother, tender,
true, wise, ideal.
	To parents, brothers, husband and little
ones, we feel to say: Whereas, our Father
in His wisdom and love has called her
home to labor in a more exalted sphere,
may you be able to bow in humble submis-
sion to His divfne will. And we earnestly
pray that on each aching heart may be
poured a healing balm, even the comforting
influence of the Holy Spirit, that you may,
even now see the silver lining to the cloud
which overshadows you, and be able to say:
“The Lord gave and the Lord taketh away;
blessed be the name of the Lord.”

O, loved ones, with thy braised and bleeding
		hearts,
	Couldst thou have seen the messenger that
		came
In shining robes, direct from Father’s throne,
	Hadst heard the thrilling voice call Louie’s
		name,
Thou wouldst have said, if thou hadst under-
		stood,
“It is the Lord; do Thou as seemest good.”

But veiled by dense mortality, thine eyes
	Beheld not, through the bitter, blinding tears: 
The same dense clay permitted not the sound
	Of angel voice to penetrate thine ears,
Not tears nor sob prevented, but laws abound
That man must walk by faith, not sight nor
		sound.

And so the angel came unseen, unheard
	By all save thy dear one, whom he didst guide
Across the shadowy river, to the throne
	Where harp and crown await on yonder side,
She saw, heard, and recalled her former home.
And smiling, whispered faintly, “Lord, I come.”

We mourn, we weep with thee in thy deep loss,
	We know the grieving heart yearns for its own;
Know that the aching void can ne’er be filled
	Save by our Heavenly Father, He alone
Can soothe thy grief, speak peaee unto thy soul;
Can heal thy wonnds, and make thee truly whole.

And so we pray that strength be given thee,
	That heavenly dews may on thy soul descend;
That through the clouds, blue sky may yet be
		seen;
	Instead of song, may psalm thy lips attend. 
When rightly tempered both by heat and wave,
Thou’lt meet again thine own beyond the grave.
					NELLIE BECROFT.


In Los Angeles, the Jewish Women’s
Foreign Relief Association, of which Mrs.
Bertha Hirsch Baruch is president, has
opened an attractive new settlement house
at 738 Turner St. It is named for Moses
Mendelssohn, the famous musician’s grand-
father, who brought the light of modern cul-
ture to the Ghetto Jews in the 18th century.
The house was opened with appropriate
ceremonies, and addresses from prominent
men, Christians and Jews.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, 1$.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah,
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	APRIL, 1908.


AN ARTISTIC BOOKLET.
	There is for sale at this office a booklet is-
sued by our President of the Relief Society,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith for the sisters
of the Relief Society, or any who might
desire to have one, either for herself or a
present to a friend. The book is entitled
“A Swarm of B’s Bringing Blessings.”
Published for her eighty-fifth birthday.
There are in the book good pictures of
Sister Smith thirty-five years ago, also
one taken forty years ago with Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H Young, and
Emily P. Young, and one taken recently.
Price of the book, fifty cents.


[Column 1]
	A DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION.
	Our sisters generally throughout the entire
Church in all parts of the world are aware
now through reading the EXPONENT and
other publications, that the birthday of our
General President Bathsheba W. Smith oc-
curs on May 3, and that the Relief Society
or the family of this illustrious woman, one
or both, aim to celebrate it and make it an
occasion of rejoicing. This year the real
anniversary came on the Sabbath day and
it was the Fast Day; therefore no demon-
stration could be made on that day. Sister
Smith however chose Saturday, May 2, 1908,
and herself decided to given an open recep-
tion at her own home to her friends, and
to her co-workers in the Relief Society and in
the Temple.
	This idea was carried out and the affair
was in every way most enjoyable. The ar-
rangements were most tasteful and artis-
tic in color and design, the parlor was in
pink and white, pink and white roses, (the
May blossom colors) here and there in pro-
fusion; old fashioned portraits adorned the
walls of Father John Smith the Patri-
arch and his wife, and an excellent picture of
President George A. Smith, husband of the
hostess, whose death occurred many years
ago hung near a sofa, where the hostess was
receiving; the dining room was in green and
the softest lace curtains at the windows
helped to complete a pretty picture of ar-
tistic decorating that blended so harmoni-
ously with the entire furnishings of the
home, that a quiet serenity pervaded the at-
mosphere of the house. The central figure
of course was the hostess herself, arrayed in
her elegant shining white dress of home-

[Column 2]
made silk, with exquisitely fine, soft real
lace, and blonde lace scarf thrown carefully
over her head but not hiding the silvery white
hair that is the crowning glory of age, of
which the poets have sung in such admira-
ble strains:
“Like a crown of silver the snow-white hair
	So daintily dressed,
O’ershades a face once young and fair.”
	These words are most appropriate to many
of our dear sisters who have grown old in
the service of the Master. Saintly in every
feature as though purified from all dross.
	Sister Smith greeted all her guests cordi-
ally and said a few pleasant words to each
one as she was so heartily congratulated on
her long and useful life; and she was the re-
cipient of a number of handsome and valu-
able gifts from her devoted friends and co-
laborers. Besides the hostess in close
proximity was her only daughter, Mrs. Bath-
sheba Smith Merrill, and Sister Susan W.
Smith, also the General Secretary, Mrs. E.
B. Wells. Her grand-daughters, Mrs. David
Allen, Mrs. Stephen Richards, Mrs. Ben
Lloyd, Mrs. George H. Horne and Mrs.
Joseph Fisher, and the oldest great-grand-
daughters cared for the guests, ushering them
in and serving the dainty refreshments with
kind words and gracious acknowledgment
of the honor all who came felt to accord to
this highly esteemed and reverent grand-
mother on this notable anniversary, the
eighty sixth mile-stone on the road of life.
The plate on which cake was served was one
used at her wedding in the long ago. The
old fashioned counterpane upon her bed in
an adjoining room was designed and made
by Sister Smith in her early married life.
	One of the features of the day was the
gift of a handsome book of songs and illus-
trations from the General Board of the Re-
lief Society, the presentation made in a few
choice words of love and affection by Coun-
selor Annie Taylor Hyde.
	Sister Susa Young Gates, President of the
Utah Daughters of the Pioneers, with a few
loving words and a bit of dainty verse brought
to the honored hostess an exquisite white
lace scarf. It was very prettily pre-
sented and graciously acknowledged.
	There were original birthday poems from
Sisters Emmeline B. Wells and Ruth M.
Fox, read to the guests present at the time.
Sister Fox’s poem was sort of historical and
out of the ordinary style of birthday verses.
	The girls gave to the guests slips of paper
with the pictures of Sisters Eliza R. Snow,
Zina D. H. Young, Emily D. P. Young and
Bathsheba W. Smith taken forty years ago
as a souvenir of the day.
	No record was kept of the number who
paid their respects, but they came and went
incessantly during the hours from two to six
p. m. and some even after.
	A beautiful spirit pervaded the home sug-
gestive of the calm, peaceful and serene life
of its mistress, and the small, white house
with its green shutters is a picture of con-
tentment from the outside, set as it is among
the green shrubbery, with its low, iron rail-
ing in front. Long may the occupant rest
there while she goes backwards and for-
wards to officiate as priestess in the holy
Temple not many steps away from her own
door.


[Column 1]
McDONALD GOLDEN WEDDING.
	Invitations were issued and a party given
in the Lion House Saturday, May 16, 1908,
to celebrate the fiiftieth anniversary of the

[Column 2]
marriage of Brother and Sister John Mc-
Donald. The Presidency of the Church
and Presiding Bishopric, also several Apos-
tles were specially interested in the affair
and had much to do with making it a sort
of testimonial of love and respect to the
bridegroom and bride of fifty years, and
also as an appreciation of favors and kind-
ness bestowed upon President Joseph F.
Smith and other brethren (some of whom
have passed away since) in a time when
they stood greatly in need of friends who
where true and reliable. The guests began
to assemble in the old fashioned parlor in
the Lion House about 4 p. m.
	The happy couple in whose honor the af-
fair was given were there to be congratu-
lated looking very buoyant and shaking
hands with all who offered congratulations
and good wishes. The bride wore an ele-
gant fawn-colored brocaded silk, made in
the latest style, in fact we could say as they
do of brides nowadays, “she was elegantly
gowned.” Brother McDonald wore the
usual dress suit, and there were many warm
and hearty expressions of good will and es-
teem. The call for the banquet hall came
and the guests were ushered up stairs where
in the spacious apartment five long tables
were arranged for the large party.
	At the head of the center table were the
guests of honor and President Joseph F.
Smith and the family of the honored couple.
	The tables were all filled, and at the head
of each some distinguished man was seated.
The menu was excellently prepared and
served by pretty young girls of the cooking
class of the L. D. S. College. The decor-
ations had been under the supervision of a
committee of three and were in excellent
taste, a card with the name designated the
place of each guest, also a flowers for favors.
President Joseph F. Smith pronounced the
blessing upon the abundant feast, and a
spirit of unity and good fellowship pervaded 
the gathering.
	After the banquet tables were cleared
away and a sort of program of exercises in
charge of Bishop C. W. Nibley, opened with
singing a hymn and a brief address from
President Joseph F. Smith who in a very
happy manner expressed his good feeling
for Brother and Sister McDonald and pleas-
ure at having them his guests on such an
auspicious occasion. Bishop O. F. Whitney
recited a verse as a prelude to his remarks:

O ’tis not when riches and splendor surround us,
	That friendship and friends can be put to the
		test,
’Tis but when affliction’s cold presence hath
		bound us,
	We find which the hearts are that love us the
		best.
For friends will fawn at fortune’s dawn,
	While the breeze and the tide waft us steadily
		on;
But if sorrow o’ertake us each false one forsakes 
		us,
	And leaves us to sink or to struggle alone.

There was singing and recitations and an
excellent one rendered by the veteran actor,
Phil Margetts, Esq., impromptu speeches,
some original verses by Aunt Emm. Wells,
and very fine musical selections of negro
ballads rendered by some of the McDonalds,
and Brother McDonald gave a little inter-
esting history of their younger days. Then a
grand march in which most of the company
joined, and some old-fashioned dances in
which President Winder participated al-
though 86 years old, and fancy dances by
the McDonald grandchildren. Taken all in
all it was a delightful party and very differ-
ent to the wedding fifty years before, when


the two young people joined hands and were
married on horseback as they were journey-
ing southward at the time of the move when
Johnston’s army was coming. The EXPO-
NENT extends hearty congratulations and
ardent wishes for a long and happy life to-
gether, at any rate to celebrate their dia-
mond anniversary twenty-five years hence.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
		IN MEMORIAM. 
MARTHA GIVENS HARRIS WELLS. 
“The stars are watching the sleeping saint,
	And lighting the sleeping brow;
But the light of the stars is cold and faint
	To the glory she dreameth now.”

“No sighs are heard in the shadowy place
	No voices of them that weep;
She has fought the fight and finished the race,
	God giveth her rest and sleep.”
		*	*	*	*	*
“The golden dawn of the day of God
	Shall smile on the sealed eyes;
The trumpet’s sound shall thunder around
	The dreamers shall wake and rise.”

“The night is over, the sleep is slept,
	They are called from the shadowy place,
The Pilgrims stand in the glorious land,
	And gaze on the Master’s face.”

	It is scarcely possible to write satisfac-
torily of those very near and dear, as there
seems no language in which to express what
one feels, concerning the departed loved ones. 
Yet a record must be made of the life, that
the memory may be preserved and facts for
reference, even though the task is difficult. 
Certainly Sister Martha Wells deserves most
honorable mention among the pioneer wo-
men of Zion, and of the West. Sister
Martha G. H. Wells who passed away at
the residence of her daughter, Sister Emily
Wells Grant, Tuesday, May 12, 1908, at 3
p. m., was a woman greatly beloved by her
family and friends, and widely known and
highly respected by the Latter-day Saints,
and many not of the same faith. Her im-
mediate family almost idolized her; she
was one to lean upon, always the tender, 
loving mother, and grandmother, solicitous 
for the welfare of each one and for all.  It
had fallen to her lot several times to care
for the motherless families of her sons, who
had been called to part with the mothers of
little children, and babes, and these little
ones received the most loving and watchful
care from her. 
	And indeed she was in herself most lova-
ble and trustworthy, a faithful wife and de-
voted and most affectionate mother. She
served with untiring patience and willing-
ness, all those who needed her care as
though they were her very own. 
	Martha G. Harris was born in Nashville,
Tenn., March 27, 1832. Her father was McGee
Harris, her mother Mary Givens, they were
married in Tennessee, but had been born in
Kentucky. They had quite a little family
when they decided to move to Illinois,
bought a farm and settled in Marion, Wil-
liams Co., Illinois, in the year 1840. It was
there the Gospel came to them by Elder
Levi M. Stewart, who was instrumental in 
converting and baptizing them. Little
Martha was baptized by Elder Levi M. Stew-
art when ten years old in 1842. She was
the third child of her parents, two sisters,
Sarah J. and Margaret, were older, and
Mary Ann, now Mrs. Casper Whittle, of
Richmond, Alexander, William, Eli, and
Emily C., Mrs. Alexander Bullock of Pleas-
ant Grove, were younger. 

[Column 2]
	When the exodus from Nauvoo came and
persecution raged in Illinois, Brother McGee
Harris and wife left their home and took up
their journey westward to the Missouri river;
leaving behind the two elder girls, who had
married and remained at their homes in
Illinois. When the Saints started west
from Winter Quarters to the valley Brother
and Sister Harris and family came in Presi-
dent Brigham Young’s company. In the
same company came ’Squire Wells, who
upon that famous pilgrimage made the ac-
quaintance of Miss Martha G. Harris, a very
modest, amiable and attractive young girl,
then just sweet sixteen. Brother Harris
was what we Eastern people called well-to-
do, and after reaching here finally settled
permanently in the Twelfth Ward in Salt
Lake, on the corner of what is now Second
South and Sixth East, where he resided up
to the time of his death. 
	Miss Harris was married to ’Squire Daniel
H. Wells September 20, 1849,—it was a 
very congenial and happy union, in all re-
spects they seemed admirably suited to each
other. Their children were Martha Deseret
Wells (Mrs. Charles Read), born April 18,
1853, Emily Harris (wife of Apostle Heber
J. Grant), born April 22, 1857, Heber Man-
ning Wells, first Governor of the State of
Utah, born August 11, 1859, Joseph Smith
Wells, manager Utah Light and Railway
company and First Counselor in the Presi-
dency of the Ensign Stake of Zion, born
May 25, 1862, Hermon Chapin Wells, born
September 8, 1868, Edna Margaret Wells,
born July 5, 1869, (Mrs. Thomas Sloan),
Briant Harris Wells, born December 5, 1871,
Captain 29th U. S. Infantry, stationed now
in Manila, Philippine Islands. 
	Mrs. Wells at the time of her decease left
twenty grandchildren (three had died), and
two great-grandchildren.
	Mrs. Wells’ life has been one of peace and
contentment, she was a model housekeeper,
and attractive home maker, pleasant and
companionable, and one to be trusted in all
the relations of life, true and constant in
friendship, and firm and unwavering in the
faith of the Gospel and in all the principles
therein revealed through the Prophet Joseph
Smith in this dispensation. 
	When the Relief Society was organized in
the 13th ward in Salt Lake City, she was
called to be a teacher, and made her first
visits in that capacity in company with Sis-
ter Bathsheba W. Smith; some years after
when Sister Martha Wells moved to the 12th
ward, she was chosen treasurer of the Relief
Society in that ward and held the office un-
til she moved from there to the 20th ward. 
In whatever position Sister Wells was called
to act, she always gave perfect satisfaction
to those associated with her. She was a
fine needle woman, and an adept in all
domestic arts, and an excellent manager
of household affairs. Her home was her
heaven, and she adorned it by her cheer-
ful presence and her smiling countenance, 
and motherly methods of ministering to
those who came within the scope of her
influence, and who had claim upon her hos-
pitality. 
	She lived a beautiful, serene and even
life, and she has gone to meet her loved ones
behind the veil, her noble husband, to whom
she gave her undying affection, her children
her beloved Dessie, her own baby Hermon
Manning, the son of Heber M. Wells, and
Byron, the son of Joseph Wells, to both of
whom she had been a second mother,
brothers and sisters and her own father and
mother, who died in full faith of the Gos-

[Column 3]
pel, both ripe in years and in good works,
and others whom she knew and loved here. 
	A rather remarkable feature in Mrs. Wells’
life is that she has left thirteen motherless
grandchildren, of four families; this seems
strange in one family and not a very large
family, for she had only six children that
grew to man and womanhood. 

	The funeral of Sister Martha Wells was
held at the home where she died, on Thurs-
day, May 14, 1908, at 2 p. m., Bishop T. A. 
Clawson of the 18th ward in charge of the
services. The singers rendered the beauti-
hymn, 
		Farewell all earthly honors,
and prayer was offered by Elder Richard W.
Young.
	Elder George D. Pyper sang as a solo,
	O, my Father thou that dwellest, etc. 
	Elder Orson F. Whitney and President
Joseph F. Smith made brief addresses full
of inspiration and of hope and consolation
to relatives and all who mourn their loved
ones. The singers gave a closing musical
exercise,
	“When the swallows homeward fly,”
and the benediction was pronounced by
Elder Seymour B. Young. 
	Mrs. Wells looked beautiful in the white
casket in her white robes. There were very
many lovely floral emblems; tokens of love
and affectionate regard. 
	“After the burden and heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way
		A sleep in the robe of white.”
	The pall bearers were six of the sons of
the late President Daniel H. Wells,
Rulon S., Gershom B., Louis R., Melvin D.,
Victor P. and Charles H. 
	The grave was lined with flowers and
covered with an exquisite blanket of the 
choicest flowers. 
	The grave was dedicated by Elder An-
thony Ivins. The exquisite hymn,
		Rest on the hillside, rest,
was solemnly rendered beside the grave.


CAROLINE E. PARTRIDGE LYMAN.
	To the memory of our beloved Sister
Caroline E. Lyman, President of the Oak
City Relief Society since its organization in
1875, until 1906, when she was honorably
released.
	She was born at Painesville, Ohio, Jan. 8,
1827, and died May 5, 1908.
	She was associated with Joseph Smith,
the Prophet, passed the early persecutions
of the Church. Her father, Presiding Bishop
Edward Partridge, was mobbed, tarred and
feathered, and otherwise mistreated for his
religion.
	She was the mother of five children, all
members of the Church. She was a pioneer
of both Utah and California.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, God has taken unto Himself our
beloved sister, friend and mother, therefore
be it
	Resolved, that in the death of Sister Ly-
man, Oak City Relief Society has lost one of
its stanchest supporters, the poor a gener-
ous and true friend, her children a tender,
devoted mother.


Resolved, that though we miss her from
our association and home, we can truly say
of her, “Blessed are the dead who die in
the Lord; she rests from her labors and her
works do follow her.
	Resolved that these resolutions be copied
in our record and a copy sent to the Wom-
an’s Exponent for publication.
			VERSES.
Mother, mother, true and tender,
	Though your form is bent with age,
Though your steps were slow and faltering.
	And your life a well-filled page—
Yet we miss you, dearest mother,
	None on earth your place can fill.
Your dear old room, your vacant chair
	Seemed hallowed with your presence still,
May we meet you in God’s kingdom.
	When our life on earth is done;
There to dwell in joy and gladness,
	With the Father and the Son.
			MARY M LYMAN.
			LYDA L. FINLENSON,
							Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OE RFSPEET.
	Sister Elizabeth Mary Pace Stewart, who
departed this life, April 18, 1908, 8 o’clock
p. m., at Price, Utah.
	Whereas our Father in heaven has in His
infinite mercy removed from among us our
worthy and dearly loved sister, Elizabeth
Mary Pace Stewart, and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation
with her in the faithful discharge of her
duties in this society as a teacher makes it
fitting that we record our appreciation,
wherefore,
	Resolved, that the wisdom and ability
which she exercised in our midst by service
and example, will be held in grateful re-
membrance,
	Resolved, that the removal of such a life
from among our number leaves a vacancy
and a shadow that will be deeply realized
by all the members of this society, and a
serious loss to the community because of
the exemplary life she lived.
	Resolved that we deeply sympathize with
the husband and family, and pray our Heav-
enly Father to sustain and comfort them, in
the hour of trial, we express our hope that
even in so great a loss to us, all may be over-
ruled for good by Him who doeth all things
well.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions
be recorded in the record book of the Relief
Society, a copy published in the Woman’s
Exponent, and a copy handed to the be-
reaved family.
				MARIAH J. BRYNER
							Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Written on the death of Mrs. Leo Hafen, who
yielded up her young life on the altar of mother-
hood at her home in Provo, Utah, on March 21st,
1908.
	Sometimes the mystery of life and death are al-
most beyond our wisdom of understanding. The
poignant grief, the heart-ache, the helplessness,
the loneliness, the vacancy, all leave one so bereft
we cry out, “Why are we called upon to bear a
cross so heavily laden with sorrow?” Yet there
we pause. And the answer comes: “The Lord
giveth, and the Lord taketh away; blessed be the
name of the Lord.”
	How blessed when He gave to the dear father
and mother the sweet daughter He has now taken
to His home. How blessed when He gave the
sisterly companionship to the loving sister whose
grief is so great. How blessed when he gave the


lovely wife to the young husband. How sad
when he called from the borderland of mother-
hood, the precious mother and babe. True, the
dear companionship is severed, the light, the sun-
shine, the lovely presence, all that gave promise
of a future joy and happiness in the home, have
faded from our vision. But that is not the end of
all those blessings. Time will teach the lesson
her pure life has left—the lesson of love, Christian
faith, purity of purpose and devotion to her
Church, her home and to those in whose spiritual
welfare she labored. Mrs. Hafen was a tower of
strength and happiness among her friends and
neighbors, doing much good in Church and Sab-
bath School work. And while she rests from her
labor, her good work, her gentle influence, will
go on to the glory of her faithful guidance and
righteous teaching. She sleeps—she sleeps—
under thousands of beautiful flowers she sleeps
well.
Spring with your garlands and wealth of per-
		fume,
	Soft sunny glance of the warm summer day,
Bear her pure spirit from the dust of the tomb,
	Up to the stars of the beautiful way.
So we have given her early to rest,
	When the warm sunshine is lingering and
		sweet,
When the pale willow droops low o’er her breast,
	And the green mosses creep over her feet.
She sleeps not forever, we must be strong—
	Strong in our toiling and brave in our strife.
Letting her memory keep us from wrong,
	Guiding us on to the river of life.
						LOUISE COULSON.
Salt Lake City, Utah.


THE ALPS.
	The Alps, the majestic Alps! School
days come to mind, when we studied about
the Alps, the snowy peaks of Switzerland.
How far away those days seem, as we sit
here in Zurich’s boulevard, and see them
glistening in the setting sun! Then gradu-
ation day rises in memory. Thought long
and deep has been bestowed on that all-im-
portant essay, the crowning victory at the
end of High School life. We see the fair-
haired girl—our own close friend—advance
to the front of the platform and read
	“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
Her little white gloved hand holding the
dainty paper, perceptively trembles. She
is conscious that every eye is upon her; that
everyone there is going with her on that
journey over the Alps.
	So young, so fair, how could she sense that
life was like the Alps, towering spectre-like
far over there?
	Zurich’s lake is washing at our feet; the
sun glints on the ripples made by the pass-
ing craft. These must be the little worries
of life, vexations, and not easily overcome.
	How much lies between them and the
silent Alps!
	It is so pleasant to sit here, the city’s
noise sounding like a far off babble, lulling
the mind to rest. But this is not the way
to cross the Alps, to find Italy. No! We
must climb up those freezing heights, past
the glacier and the snow. Now down deep
defiles, where the unwary may stumble or
fall, though clinging to bush or bough.
Shall we go down to darkness and despair?
Despair? No! There is a beacon light,
though we may catch but its slightest gleam.
Upward, on we go, past the rubicon. The
height is scaled, the snow in many cascades
and water falls flows down the mountain
side, and we have found Italy. O, land of
sunny skies art thou the all and all?
	Vividly rises the school scene, the flutter-
ing white dress of the wondering girl, the
poise of the sanguine boy.


“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“A fresh memorial to vanished youth
	The sweet girl graduate, with flower face,
Her eyes so full of trust, her heart of truth,
	Looking o’er all the world to find her place.
Her theme holds weighty words, and thoughts so
		staid,
	A travesty on life in phrase austere,
But youthful confidence is unafraid,
	And gladness vibrates in the tones so clear,
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“The joy of triumph and of proud applause,
	Sweet floral offerings, the music’s stir;
Fair, sunny slope of youth! O, let us pause,
	And linger in this girlhood’s glade with her,
Ere she climbs those steeps of life,
	Where womanhood with all its mystery lies.
Remember ere you go to meet its strife,
	O, maiden innocent, grown strongly wise—
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“The essay soon will yellow grow with time,
	The years will string their rosary of tears.
Weary and footsore we the hills must climb,
	And stumble o’er the stones of cares and fears.
The mists of doubt will all the landscape veil,
	The summit lies so very far away;
The feet may falter and the courage fail,
	The stern, pale lips, will quiver then to say,
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
“O, when the hands that helped you up the slope,
	Shall loose the clasp, we cannot always keep,
When in the night of pain, you upward grope—
	Blinded by tears, with lagging footsteps weep.
Then let your girlhood’s maxim cheer your
		heart—
	A peal ef joy through all life’s sad refrain—
Though here we live and lose and meet and part,
	There is a height where pleasure conquers pain.
		“Beyond the Alps Lies Italy.”
	The reading is ended; the sweet melody
is borne on the air. The school scene fades
away, and we are still beside the living
waters of Lake Zurich, suddenly awakened
from the dream of long ago, the Alps a liv-
ing reality, wonderful, yet unknown, stretch-
ing far away over there. 
	This side the Alps, the ice and snow,
	The other, foaming waters flow;
	This side forbidding, silent, grand,
	The other Italy’s fair land. 
	Impassable may seem the height,
	The dazzling snow may blind our sight,
	Beyond, the flowers and verdure teem,
	And Italy, our life-time dream. 
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


MOTHER’S WORK.
	OUTLINE MILLARD STAKE.
	First. Temperance and the Word of
Wisdom. Effects of example and how ex-
tensive. What physical benefit? What
spiritual benefit to be derived therefrom?
	Second. How to care for the body to
preserve health.
	Third. Counsel. What is the highest
counsel that can be sought? In what spirit
should it be given?
	Fourth. Motherhood and its responsi-
bility.
	Fifth. How to secure the obedience and
love of our children.
	Sixth. How to train our boys.
	Seventh. Work as a means of establish-
inggood habits.
	Eighth. A father’s influence.
	Ninth. Effects of cigaret smoking.
	Tenth. The ideal mother.
	Eleventh. Regularity of meals and kinds
of food to eat, and how to cook the food.
	Twelfth. How the father should counsel
his sons.
	Thirteenth. Companionship of mothers
and daughters.
	Fourteenth. Work as an educator.
	Fifteenth. Purity in the home.
	Sixteenth. Last meeting in Decemcer:
celebrate Joseph’s Smith’s birthday.
					Stake Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HISTORY OF THE U. W. PRESS CLUB.
		(Continued from page 64.)
	A number of the Club members appeared
in costume, among the characters represent-
ed, Helen of Troy, Penelope, The Empress
Eugenie, Spring and a Puritan Mother.
	At the December meeting of the Club,
original papers were read on the customs of
celebrating Christmas in other lands. Ger-
many by Mrs. Lillian Maeser, France and
India by Mrs. Mary F. Kelly, New England
States by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	At the January meeting, 1905, papers were
read, one by Mrs. M. J. Snow on “The Youth
of George Washington,” and one on “The
Friendship of Lafayette and Washington” by
Mrs. Lillian Maeser. Original poem, “Betsy
Ross and the Flag,” by Mrs. Susa Y. Gates.
Two dollars were contributed to the Utah Fe-
deration of Women’s Clubs, for the Travel-
ing Library of the U. F. W. Clubs.
	The February meeting was held at the
home of Mrs. E. S. Wilcox, where both the
Press and Reapers Club were guests, in honor
of the birthday of their founder Mrs. E. B.
Wells. Sixty ladies were present. The pro-
gram, consisted of the reading of poems from
Mrs. Wells own volume of verse, “Musings
and Memories,” songs and recitations with a
love gift to the guest of honor.
	At the May meeting Mrs. Jensen read a
very able paper on the war between Russia
and Japan, from the Russian standpoint.
	Mrs. Wilcox addressed the Club, more par-
ticularly on the wonderful record, of the lit-
tle Chinese girl, Lillie King, at the Fremont
school, who had passed all competitors by
two per cent.
	At the September meeting, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, spoke upon the early history of the
U. W. Press Club, and impressed upon its
members the importance of its position as
one of the National Women’s Clubs. Mrs.
Francis read a paper on “The Idealism of
the Home.” An original poem, “The Burgo-
master of Berne,” was read by its author, Mrs.
Kelly. Two representatives were appointed
to attend the Convention to be held at
Springville, namely Mrs. Francis, President,
and Mrs. E. S. Wilcox. Mrs. Lydia Alder
was specially invited to speak of women in
other lands by Mrs. Kinney.
	The Annual Meeting of the Club was held
in October, at the home of Dr. E. R. Shipp.
	The election of officers, resulted in Mrs.
Emma Jensen as President; Mrs. M. F. Kelly,
First Vice President; Mrs. Lillian Maeser,
Second Vice President; Mrs. Margaret Caine,
Secretary; Mrs. M. J. Snow, Cor. Secretary;
Florence Critchlow, Treasurer.
	A program consisting of sketches of women
of Biblical times, was well rendered.
	At the November meeting of the Club,held
in the Exponent office, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp
addressed the Club, voicing her gratitude to
Mrs. Wells as the founder of the Press Club,
and her untiring efforts, in encouraging
mental development in the women of Utah.
Mrs. Mary E. Howell was appointed as de-
legate to the George Washington Memorial
Association meeting to be held in Washing-
ton D. C., February 1906.
	The December meeting of the Club was
held at the home of Mrs. Francis and Mrs.
Kelly. Original poems on Christmas and
other subjects were read by Dr. E. R. Shipp.
Mrs. Kelly read Pax Vobiscum, her poem,
which had received first honorable mention,
in the Deseret News Prize Competition.
	The January meeting, 1906, of the Club
was held at the home of Prest. Mrs. Jensen.
Mrs. Jensen favored the company with an

[Column 2]
excellent talk on the Bloodless War between
Norway and Sweden, giving the history of
these countries back for several centuries,
showing how the kingdoms came to be unit-
ed, and the reasons which made a disunion
without enmity possible. Mrs. Jensen gave
a fine paper on Christmas in Norway.
	Miss Eva Jensen presented a pretty pict-
ure, dressed in the peasant costume of Swe-
den.
	Music, recitations and refreshments, added
to the pleasure of the many guests.
	The February meeting was held at the
Exponent office, and was devoted to cele-
brating the birthday of its Honorary Presi-
dent and Founder Mrs. E. B. Wells. A paper
by Mrs. R. M. Fox, referred to Mrs. Wells
womanliness, and the noble rolls of wife-
hood and motherhood.
	One of Mrs. Wells’ daughters, Annie Wells
Cannon, paid a touching tribute to the truth
of the statements of Mrs. Fox.
	Mrs. M. J. Snow spoke of Mrs. Wells’ loy-
alty to every form of women’s work, for the
up-building of humanity, also as to her work
as a suffragist, and in the Woman’s Clubs.
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder (but recently returned
from her extended trip abroad, whither she
had gone as a speaker to the Quinquennial
Congress, held in Berlin, June 1904) spoke
especially on Mrs. Wells’ work in literature,
referring particularly to her work as editor of
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT; and of their being
together in England, whither they had gone
as members of the Quinquennial Congress,
held in London, June 1899.
	Mrs. Hattie Jensen, Mrs. M. J. Snow, and
Miss Sarah Eddington were received as
members.
	The March meeting was held at the home
of Mrs. Florence Critchlow; Mrs. M. J. Snow
was elected secretary. The Club was called
upon, by the State Federation of Club’s, that
each member contribute a book on American
history or literature, to aid in replacing the
library, which was destroyed at Sunnyside,
by fire in November last.
	A sketch of the life of Eliza R. Snow, was
ably given by Mrs. Roundy.
	Mrs. Hattie Jensen spoke of the patriotic
fervor, expressed in Miss Snow’s poems.
	Mrs. Lillie Maeser spoke of her as poetess,
especially referring to her most popular
poem, “O, My Father.”
	The April meeting of 1906 was held at the
home of Dr. E. R. Shipp. Selections from
the writings of the poetess Hannah T. King
were read. Mrs. Lydia D. Alder gave an in-
teresting sketch of her life referring to the
noble stature and bearing of this gifted
woman, and of their intimate friendship
which had lasted over many years. The
death of Gladys Woodmansee, a member of
the Club, a bright sparkling, precious woman,
was announced. Also the death of Mrs. E.
J. Stevensen. A motion was made and car-
ried that the committee appointed by the
Club, draft resolutions of respect. Mrs. Alder
for Gladys Woodmansee, Dr. Shipp, Mrs.
Stevensen.
	The September, 1906, meeting was held
at the home of Mrs. Francis. Mrs. Wood-
mansee was to have been guest of honor,
but was too ill to be present. A number of
her old friends, girlhood friends in England
were present, among them Mrs. Phebe Sloan,
and Mrs. Margaret Young, were present by spe-
cial invitation. Many incidents of interest
were related, the flood of years rendering up
many treasures of the past. The poems read
during the evening were selected by Mrs.
Woodmansee herself, yet all regretted her

[Column 3]
enforced absence from the bosom of her
friends.
	The October, 1906 meeting of the Press
Club was held at the home of its President,
Mrs. E. H. Jensen. Mrs. E. B. Wells was
called to the Chair. A report of the year’s
work was read by the President, and Mrs.
Zina Y. Card was received as a member.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the George
Washington Memorial; also said that the
shares held by the Press and Reaper’s Clubs,
gave us an interest in the Woman’s Memo-
rial Association at Washington; also stated
that Utah was the first state in the Union,
that paid a subscription toward the George
Washington Memorial, and that it was col-
lected from the children of the Public Schools
of Utah. An original poem, “What is the
Best for us to do?” was read by Dr. E. R.
Shipp. Mrs. Minnie J. Snow spoke at some
length of her visit to the State Council
of Women at Ohio, which numbers some
800,000 women, some of whom make this
their life work, spending fortunes in the
cause.
	The club officers for the coming year were
Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, President; Dr. E. R.
Shipp, First Vice President; Mrs. Maria
Francis, Second Vice President; Mrs. Flor-
ence S. Critchlow, Rec. Secretary; Mrs. E.
H. Jensen, Treasurer.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells moved that a new office
be created by the Club, that of Historian,
and named Mrs. L. D. Alder for the office,
as she has written the Club History for the
first decade. Moved and carried that this
motion be acted upon later, which was done
agreeable to Mrs. Wells’ suggestion.
	This closed the history of the Club for the
past five years. Many of its old members
still attend, and give of their best efforts for
its up-building. That the Press Club is dear
to “Aunt Em’s” heart, goes without saying,
and that true and lasting friendships have
grown out of the associations formed in its
members by delving into the world of
Thought and Events. “Birds of a feather,
flock together” was said of old. We have
proven it to be still true, and the reason,
that we see and understand alike, the re-
quisite of the true friendship.

The pen is mightier than the sword,
The written than the spoken word,
The written-unborn ages sway,
The spoken, breezes drift away,
So full Thoughts store house, it o’erflows,
Yet ’tis not less for all one knows;
Outstretch thine hand, Thought’s flowers are fair,
Pluck all thou wilt, none less are there.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


HONORS.
	On Wednesday evening, the 6th inst., a
reception was given in honor of Sisters
Martha A Critchlow, Nancy L. Burch and
Eveline C. Brown, the retiring presidency of
the Relief Society of the Ogden first ward.
	Sisters Critchlow and Burch have been
faithful workers in the Relief Society cause
for the past thirty years, and for twenty-
eight years held the positions of President
and First Counselor. Sister Brown acting
with them as Second Counselor for the last
eighteen years.
	By their earnest and constant labors of
love and sacrifice these sisters have en-
deared themselves to the hearts of the peo-
ple of this ward, and the present officers and
members of the organization made this a
fitting occasion for expressing the gratitude
and love felt for them.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The program consisted of an eloquent ad-
dress of welcome read by Assistant Secre-
tary Lillian Belnap, remarks by Bishop D.
H. Ensign, Jane S. Richards, Stake Presi-
dent of Relief Society, and President C. F.
Middleton of the Presidency, interspersed
with musical numbers.
	One of the most interesting parts of the
program was the presentation to each of the
retiring officers of a beautiful rocking chair
from the Relief Society members. These
honored guests each made a response ex-
pressing their appreciation of the sentiment
which had prompted the tribute paid them
on this occasion.
	Dainty refreshments were served during
the time of sociability that followed, and all
departed feeling that the evening would be
long held in happy remembrance.
				ONE OF THE PARTY.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		MILLARD STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
Millard Stake, held in the Holden meeting-
house, January 31st, 1908. President Isa-
bella E. Robison presiding. Conference
opened with the usual exercises.
	President Isabella E. Robison was pleased
to have the brethren with us, hoped we
would be paid for coming out in the storm
to attend the conference.
	Elder Francis M. Lyman said, he would
like to hear in the reports how we stand in
regard to the word of wisdom, we realize
how influential the mothers are in the family,
and that they have a great responsibility,
try and live so we can say to our children,
you are as good as your mother, we want a
generation who will not drink tea and coffee,
who will not drink liquor, who will not use
tobacco.
	President Isabella E. Robison said her-
self and counselors had not visited the stake
recently, but had their welfare at heart. The
officers as a rule are keeping the word of
wisdom. Most of the property belonging to
the Relief Society was in real estate, there
is some wheat stored.
	President Emma Watts of Kanosh said
she was keeping the word of wisdom, at-
tending meetings and prayers and trying to
live her religion, the society is still working
for the sick and helping those who are in
need.
	Sister Annie Anderson of Oak City report-
ed in the absence of the President who was
ill, thought the majority of the sisters were
trying to keep the word of wisdom.
	President Mary A. Stephenson of Holden
said she was keeping the word of wisdom, at-
tended to prayer, paid her tithing, and taught
her children these principles. The officers
of the Relief Society are trying to keep the
word of wisdom, were looking after the sick
and poor, have furnished wood for the aged
and poor.
	Sister Adeline Smith reported Fillmore
Society in a good condition, it has a good
president who is looking after the poor, pre-
paring the dead for burial, and doing what
she can for the advancement of the Society.

[Column 2]
	Elder George F. Richards had been very
interested in the reports, and especially in
providing wood for the poor. The questions
that have been asked have a tendency to
make us review our lives, and see if we are
living up to the laws of the gospel, if we
have the favor of the Lord we must keep his
commandments; suggested that the several
presidents of the Relief Society be in a posi-
tion to know what portion of the officers
keep the word of wisdom.
	Elder Francis M. Lyman said if a mother
has her tea the daughter will have her tea
when she becomes a mother; we can as well
cultivate the habit of drinking water as tea.
Do not neglect the opportunities we have of
doing good to our neighbors and families.
	Sister Adeline Smith was set apart as first
counselor to President Robison, by Elder
Francis M. Lyman.
	Closed by singing “We Thank Thee O God
for a Prophet.” etc. Benediction by Elder
Alonzo A. Hinckley.
	Conference continued in an evening ses-
sion with much good instruction from the
sisters.
			MARINDA BENNET,
						Secretary.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The twenty-ninth quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held
in the Lehi Tabernacle, April 17th, 1908.
President Rebecca Standring presiding.
Meeting opened at 10 o’clock with the usual
exercises.
	President Standring, who had recently
been through a very severe sickness was
very thankful to meet her brethren and sis-
ters in conference again. Was grateful for
the faith which had been exercised in her
behalf, The Lord had raised her up. Was
thankful that she had been spared yet a lit-
tle while longer to fulfil the purposes of the
Lord. Spoke earnestly on the principle of
prohibition, and urged the sisters to uphold
the hands of the brethren in carrying out
this principle which would be a blessing to
all the community.
	The reports from the wards given by the
presidents were excellent. The sisters are
alive to their duties, teachers are up and
doing, the lessons on faith are appreciated
very much and the sisters report a fuller at-
tendance on the day the lesson is given.
Wheat is in good condition and our amuse-
ment committee are doing a good work;
and we are visiting the poor and lonely and
those who live at a distance, for we carry
substantial comforts as well as the spirit of
the gospel to cheer and comfort them.
	Song, “Dear heart we’re growing old.”
Sisters Clarke and Whitmer of Lehi.
	President Abel J. Evans congratulated the
Society. “Our missionaries give wonderful
testimonies of the work in their different
fields of labor, and it is a theme of rejoicing.
There is a great work for us to do in teach-
ing and instructing our children. It requires
a strenuous effort on tbe part of parents to
institute a watch over their boys,” he was
in full favor of prohibition and is devoted
to the cause of temperance; “it belongs to
us in following out the commandments of

[Column 3]
the Lord. We should be a light to the
world. Our faces should be set against
crime.
	Sister Mary Ann Winters of Salt Lake
City, was pleased with the silent testi-
mony of this beautiful building. Rejoiced
in the blessings of this kingdom, of which
she had received a full share. She knew
that this was the true Church and that
Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God. Sister
Winters said she had attended the first
meeting of young people held in Nauvoo,
and was thankful she had lived to see the
sisters organized in these various associa-
tions. Urged the sisters to throw their arms
of protection around the children. Remind
them of their birthday when it is time for
them to be baptized.
	Meeting closed by singing and prayer.
Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session 2 o’clock. President
Standring presiding. After the opening
exercises, four of the local presidents report-
ed their wards as doing well, and advancing
in the principles of the gospel and doing all
the good they could.
	Sister Kate Allred of Lehi 2nd Ward gave
the lesson on faith in Jesus Christ from the
Stake plan, followed by Sisters Kate All-
red and Josephine Brown with references on
the same subject, and testified to the benefit
that these lessons are to those who study
them.
	Song, “I know that my Redeemer lives,”
Lehi 4th Ward R. S.
	President Stephen L. Chipman had en-
joyed the reports and also the singing. We
can enjoy the Spirit of the Lord as much
from such beautiful singing as when listen-
ing to reports or instruction. Faith is stronger
than sight is proven by Jesus reply to
Thomas when He said “Blessed are those
who see and believe, but more blessed are
those who believe and see not.”
	Bishop Hindley of American Fork was
pleased that the sisters were taking up the
study of the Life of Christ. There is so
much to learn of His life, and the more we
know of it the more we feel as though we
want to live a better life. Referred to in-
stances where God’s voice was heard to re-
cognize Jesus as His Son. How thankful
we should be that God visited this continent
and introduced His Son to the Prophet
Joseph Smith. Many of our parents heard
the voice of the Good Shepherd in a foreign
land, and were converted to the gospel at
its first sound. I sometimes think we
brethren do not appreciate our mothers and
our wives as much as we should. Let us
show our appreciation of them while they
are still living, and not wait until they are
dead and gone. Scatter flowers of kind
words and actions while they are still with
us.
	Bishop Gardner of Lehi spoke of the capa-
bility of the Relief Society to perform the
duties. The spirit of the gospel is what makes
us what we are, it gives us joy and peace.
We all have our failings, and it is our duty
to learn as much as possible to overcome
them. The Lord has revealed this principle
of temperance and prohibition years ago to
our Prophet. It is the young mothers that
should come to these meetings and learn
how to take care of their children. Prayed
God to bless us and enable us to do our
duty.
	Benediction by President Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

