[Vol9 | July 1922 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for September - Lesson I Theology and Testimon]

Guide Lessons for September LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in September ) BLESSINGS 1. Meaning of the Term Blessings: In a general sense the word blessing has behind it the idea of any good thing or anything out of which good comes, but in this lesson we shall be limited to the consideration of blessings as divine pronouncements, e'ther by the Lord himself, by special messengers from heaven, or by persons authorized to speak in the name of the Lord. -2. The Nature and Force of Blessings: The relative force or value of the direct and the authorized giving of a blessing is plainly set forth in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 1: 38. One of the effective ways of learning and remembering is by contrast. Section 19: 15 of the Doctrine and Covenants makes plain that the opposite to a blessing is a smiting, a word-of-God smiting, an "iron-rod" castigation. A blessing, then, in its nature and force, must be a word-of-God comfort, an "iron-rod"' lifting or holding up or sustaining. It would be a sort of special hand-hold of the great support from above. 3. Having Children Blessed: Ovher thines being equal, the blessed child is in a state of adva>cement bevond the one whose parents neglect to have it blessed; the one blessed stands on the vantage ground of what may be termed record-cognition, on earth and in heaven, a prospective candidate for other blessings. The little one has been officially presented and accepted here and above. Its Church record is properly begun. Parental appreciation of privileges fosters faith in the child; it feels it, it hears about it, and is helped by jt. The parent, too, is elevated by a consciousness of having done for the child what it cannot do for itself. There is more than a passing responsibility placed upon  Latter-day Saint parents in regard to having their children blessed. See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 20: 70. This is more than a privilege, it is a duty brought into prominence by a divine command. It is the birthright of our children to be blest in infancy, and who can afford to throw that birthright into the waste basket of neglect. Looking after the birthrights of our children is building for them a fortress of faith, hope and love, from the top of which they will stand and call us blessed. Providing for the birth cf children, the blessing of children and the training of children are three ways of complying with the call of the Savior, "Suffer little children to come unto me." And moreover, parents are comforted by the knowledge that the child has been officially placed in line with those entitled to the special guardianship of the angels; thus, through the blessings of children are the heavens and the earth officially united in the performance of a most sacred trust, the training of a child. The "Babe of Bethlehem" may not have needed the blessings in the temple, any more than the "Man of Galilee" needed to be baptized in Jordan, but both events were made a part of that ideal Nfe in which "all rightevusness" is fulfilled. Who shall say that Mary did not talk to the Boy of Nazareth of his childhood hiessing. From his reply to his mother, at twelve years of age, it would seem that he had learned who his Father was, and why not from the lips of her at whose knees he prayed and under whose tutorship he became learned in the scriptures. Little wonder that the Redeemer of a world was "subject to his parents" and so tenderly solic'tous for the comfort of her who saw to it that no holy ordinance link in his childhood life was left unwelded. Patriarchal Blessingss The first patriarchal blessing was given by the Father of the Human Family, at Adam-Ondi-Ahman. The event was one in which humanity and divinity tuyether took part and rejoiced. Earth and heaven were brought together by Adam pronouncing blessings on his posterity and the Father of \ll giving his blessing to the Patriarch of the race. See Doctriue and Covenants, Section 107:53-56. The privilege of obtain'ng patriarchal blessings in youth has not been as general in former dispensations as in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. The blessing of the two sons of Joseph seems to be an exception. So important were the patriarchal blessings given by the F'rst Israelite that the pronouncements were made an important matter of historical reference among God's chosen people, and are a part of our scripture. Se2 Genesis 49,; Brother Maeser expressed the idea that "our patriarchal blessings are paragraphs from the book of our fore-ordination," and the  thought seems consistent with our belief in pre-existence and the object of earth-life as a mission. We all desire strength to resist evil, and for it we pray rather than for immunity from temptation, and patriarchal blessings are declared by the h: ghest authority to be a source of strength in hours of trial. See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 124: 124. The provisions of patriarchal blessings are sacred and should not be paraded, neither should they be permitted to pass into forgetfulness. Each promise is accompanied by responsibility, and its fulfilment depends upon both parties to the sacred contract. Man alone cannot bring it to pass, nor will the Lord fulfil without the willingness and work of man, and if our blessings seem delayed, or the promises made are not fulfilled, we may rest assured that the fault is not in the pronouncement. ? 5: Femple Blessings: The blessings of the temple have come to us as a part of the "marvelous work and a wonder." They are the cooperative results of heaven and earth activities. Under divine direction the Saints built a temple in the midst of poverty and persecution, and that temple was the scene of enactments that have been moving heaven and earth ever since. See Moctrine and Covenants, Sections 2 and 110. The following question was put to the students in the twentyseven Latter-day Saint h'gh school seminaries. "Of what use will be a temple to you?" The greater number of answers were "To get married in." Some of the others were, "To do work for the dead;" others, "To help me to live the better life." A negligible number answered: "No use at all," and of this group were four of the race not entitled to the blessing of the Priesthood. The result of the survey is full of hope and encouragemen:, but there is in it a tinge of pathetic warning. The law of decline claims its own; there is no escape frou the truth; neglect, then disrespect, then loss. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Quote the divine requirement in regard to having children blessed. 2. Prove scripturally that a blessing given by men appointed to bless is just as effective as if the Lord himself pronounced the blessing. 3. Name two advantages coming to the child through being blessed. 4. In what respect is neglecting to have children blessed robbing them of their birthright?  5. What special advantage comes through having a patriarchal blessing. 6. How may patriarchal blessings be made to help parents to get close to the hearts of their young folks? 7. Show how an interest in Adam-Ondi-Ahman may lead to an interest in patriarchal blessings. 8. What official messengers from heaven were in attendance at the dedication of the Kirtland temple and what was the special mission of each? Fe) Show that children's blessings and patriarchal blessings pave the way for a desire for temple blessings.
5. What special advantage comes through having a patriarchal blessing. 6. How may patriarchal blessings be made to help parents to get close to the hearts of their young folks? 7. Show how an interest in Adam-Ondi-Ahman may lead to an interest in patriarchal blessings. 8. What official messengers from heaven were in attendance at the dedication of the Kirtland temple and what was the special mission of each? 9. Show that children's blessings and patriarchal blessings pave the way for a desire for temple blessings.