[Vol9 | July 1922 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Let us Seek Eternal Life Reinhard Maeser]

Let Us Seek Eternal Life Reinhard Maeser, of the Brigham Young University "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." Jn. 17:13. | God's greatest gift to man is eternal life, in which gift lies the very glory. Of our heavenly Father. In order, then, to receive this wonderful blessing and therein help to enlarge the glory of the Lord, it is incumbent upon us to fulfil certain conditions? live up to certain principles, which bring to us the enfoyment of this precious gift.; Eternal life is more than simply endless prolongation of life somewhere, and under a somewhat indifferent sort of existence; eternal life, keing the most precious of the gifts of God, must have back of it glories, principalities, powers, dominions that far outreach the ability of man to conceive. In Sec. 89:7, Doc. And Cov., we read: "Seek not for riches. But for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you,, and then shall you be made rich. Behold he that hath eternal life is rich." Eterna! Life such as is contemplated by the term, "God's greatest gift to man," is to be obtained only upon the strictest adherence to the princinles of life. Or in other words, the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Lord has told us this in these words found in Sec. 14:5-7, Doc. And Cov., "Keep my commandments in all things; and, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end, you shall have eternal life, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God." _An inquiry into these commandments whereby to obtain eternal life may not be amiss. The fundamental principles of the gospel are familiar to us all. There is one law, however, which though not foremost, perhaps, yet is one of the essential things to be sacredly kept if we are to become partakers of God's greatest sift. It is the Word of Wisdom particularized in Sec. 89 of the Doc. And Cov. This Word may well be considered as God's "health law" to bring about the physical as well as the spiritual salvation of the human family. It is easily to be inferred that the Word of Wisdom is to be included among the laws to be kept to get eternal life since the Lord says we shall keep his commandments "in all things' if we wish to have eternal life. This is a wonderful law which has been given to us; wonderful in that it antedates all scientific knowledge of any dangerous results coming from the use of the things therein forbidden. It it a word of warning given by a merciful and kind Father to his  selfish and easily misguided children. A word which seems to imply that the evils which man has brought upon himself, through his indulgence of the things forbidden, may be cured by a strict following of the admonitions therein contained; for it specifically states that "all Saints who remember to keep and do these things, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones." Some people, whose weakness has led them to the breaking of this commandment, attribute their violation to ancestral transference of propensities toward such things. This does not seem to be a plea worthy of any consideration, since the tendency to indulge in many of the forbidden things has become habitual in us through our own indulgences and lack of the exercise of the 'strength within us. It were a shame for us to becloud the memory of the dead by casting upon them the cause of our own weaknesses. No ancestor has entailed upon any man a necessity for his breaking any of the provisions of the Word of Wisdom. No doubt we are heirs to a lot of evil tendencies, a lot of things good and bad, which have come to us through the ages, inheritances that in a number of ways incline us to this or that course of action, but these become factors in our lives only as we permit them to function. Our agency to do this or that, to follow this course or to take that one, is not abridged by ancestral transfers. One's agency must come to him unimpaired or he becomes by so much as this agency is modified, irresponsible for his acts. The Word of Wisdom does not seem to hold that any one is limited in his powers of self-restraint, but that all Saints have the power to live this law, inheritances from our ancestors to the contrary notwithstanding. >. Man has received from his Maker a composite nature suited ta play the part he is called to; but, if he vitiates his powers, destroys his efficiency by wilfully partakirig of the things forbidden him, and by so doing stands almost, as it were, in defiance of God's law, how will he justify himself in the day of reckoning? How even here can he, claiming sainthood, be reconciled in his heart to the attitude he takes toward the Word of the Lord in the things he is doing, when he sits down at his table and asks God's blessing and sanctification upon that which is prepared for his partaking, while the steam and fumes of the coffee fill his nostrils, and the aroma his mind with thoughts of the enjoyment he shall shortly have in partaking thereof? What does the Lord think of this? What do we think of it? Tea, coffee, wine, and all strong drinks are forbidden in this the Lord's health law; therefore, how much greater offense, before the Lord would it be for one to place a glass of whisky instead of coffee by the side of his plate, and then ask  the blessing of God upon it? Oh! You throw up your hands in horror of such an idea. Why? Would it be any more sacrileg'ous? Think it over. Looking at this important subject from another angle, it can be said there is, perhaps, nothing which so lowers the tone of the life of the average human, or that so much interferes with his cheerfulness or his enjoyment of daily life as many of the ills which are superinduced by an over indulgence of the very things condemned in the Word of Wisdom. Few maladies are more annoying than dyspepsia, few more dreaded than diseases of the heart. Liver trouble and stomach afflictions are consequent upon violations of the laws of health. Nearly. All of these, as well as others, find their origin in the rapid life we are living added. Upon by the indulgences and excesses we force upon ourselves. The social cup, the friendly smoke, the late-to-bed and late-to-rise habit are permitted to stabilize themselves in our lives so weakening our powers of resistance that the struggle is beset with such great difficulties as to become most disheartening, while many fail in the attempt. Man of himself is indeed weak, but when he seeks divine aid toward the betterment of life, and his faith in God's willingness to give him success is undaunted, he can win out if he is humbly persistent. The Word of Wisdom is a commandment from the Lord and must be obeyed if one hopes for higher glories. It is for the Saints, even the weakest of those who may be called Saints. It is one of the essential steps toward gaining eternal life. Let us seek e'ernal life which is only another way of saying let us keep the commandments of God.