Mother Takes Advice. By Diana Parrish. Isobel had been married two years before she dared broach the subject to her mother. She did it then only because she happened in on her one particularly trying morning. Mrs. Hartley was washing dishes in the hot kitchen. On the table stood stacks of unwashed dessert plates, sherbet glasses, and two big heaps of silverware. Two pairs of brass candelabra drooped down their shoulders waiting to be rid of the burnt-out candles and the long beards of wax which clung to the brass like the ghosts of the evening past. From her own experience, Isobel knew what it all meant. The girls had entertained the night before. In the center of the kitchen stood the ironing board with the electric iron still attached. Mignon had been obliged to iron a blouse before rushing madly away to the office. On the marble-topped work table stuck the remnants of a batch of walnut caramels. The sticky spatula lay just where Viola had tossed it when she finished cutting the caramels and packing them into a box for the girls at school. Isobel knew Viola and her caramels. Indeed she felt a twinge of remorse when she remembered that she had taught her younger sister the caramel trick. Against the wall leaned two cases of peaches to be bottled. A huge basket of tomatoes cried out for attention. When Isobel, through the dining room door, caught sight of Beatrice, rosy-cheeked and dreamy, surreptitiously turning the pages of a book as she dawdled about with a duster in hand, she could hold her tongue no longer. "Mother," she began, "don't you think you should have some help with this housework?" Mrs. Hartley surveyed Isobel brightly, noting how well she looked in her smart little morning frock. She smiled and trilled to Isobel's dainty white-clothed baby before she answered. "Oh, we get on very well, Isobel. I enjoy the housework." "But mother, don't you see? Fancy you doing this sort of drudgery! Dishes that those girls have used for company! You never have any time to yourself. You never have any fun. You just make a slave of yourself to your family. It's not right." Mrs. Hartley wiped the perspiration from her face and stared at her daughter in astonishment. It had not been so very long since Isobel herself had been one of the offending "girls." Remembrances of even more recent times turned the corner of mother's mouth in an odd little smile. MOTHER TAKES ADVICE. 437 "Why, my dear, I'm quite all right. I don't mind in the least." "That's just the point. You don't mind, but you should! Your family is grown up and you should be looking out for yourself. You should have done so long ago. You'll become old-fashioned and behind the times. And a woman your age is apt to lose her looks." This last bold thrust burst from Isobel's lips unconsciously. It had been uppermost in her mind for a long time, but she had not meant to speak so abruptly. Mother jerked her hands out of the dish water as if she had been slapped in the face. She glanced instinctively from Isobel's trim figure to her own fat, matronly shape from her daughter's tiny shoes to her heavy ones shielding swollen feet. "Isobel!" she cried, and without another word left the room. Tears started in Isobel's eyes. Now she had done it! Done it very clumsily, too. She was sorry she had hurt her mother's feelings and yet — she could not help but compare her own housekeeping with her mother's burdensome work. For example, how different that very morning had been. Isobel, in her own home, arrayed in a dainty muslin breakfast slip sat facing beaming Tom over a tasty breakfast. Red-tinted peaches piled in a bowl of fascinating design stood at Tom's elbow. Tom was expert in peeling peaches and always insisted on peeling Isobel's for her. After the peaches, Isobel whisked into the kitchen for the cereal which had been cooked in the double boiler while she dressed. Delicately-cooked with thick cream. Delicious! The final course consisted of poached eggs and toast. Isobel poached the eggs at the table in the electric chafing-dish while Tom made the toast with the electric toaster. No chef in the land could make a breakfast better than that, and yet there was practically no labor attached to it. An hour later Tom had departed for his office, the dishes were washed and the kitchen straightened. Isobel put the rest of the house in order while she waited for the baby to awake. But her poor mother. Breakfast to make for five. Breakfast dishes, dishes from the late supper of the night before, a large house to attend to, fruit to preserve and no one to help but a girl of the romantic day-dreaming age. It was shameful the way mother let her dream, too! Mother must be rescued from slavery. Being the first married daughter of a family of seven children, Isobel felt that she was the only one to rescue her. She knew she must do it without the help of her married brothers. Bob, Parker and Tim had been married a long time, and they had never done anything to change their mother's condition. Isobel felt the tears coming faster and faster, so she hurried back to her little home down the road. 
 Two days later Isobel called up her mother's house on the telephone. Beatrice answered. "Is that you Bea?" "Yes." "Oh, Bea, how is mother?" "All right." "That's good, I have been worrying about her. I say, Bea, I wonder if you will do a favor this afternoon?" "I'll be pleased to, if I can." "Will you tend my baby for me while I go to Clara Hilgraves' party? My little nurse girl promised a week ago to come as usual but this morning she telephoned to say she was sick. I've tried everywhere to get someone, but it's too late on such short notice. I wouldn't bother you, but it's a very beautiful affair and I hate to miss it." "Oh, I'm sorry, dear, but I won't be able to. Listen, Isobel," Bea whispered, "when I said mother was all right, I meant that she was about the same, but something has come over her about making us work. I have to prepare dinner tonight, and I have a dentist appointment that will keep me rushing." Isobel hesitated. Presently she said, "Call mother to the 'phone, will you please?" It was not long before mother answered. "Yes, dear." "Oh, mother, how are you?" "I'm very well, dear." Isobel hesitated again. Finally she stammered. "Mother, I don't like to trouble you, but I wonder if you could take care of Tommie for me this afternoon?" A long pause. Mother was considering her recent decision that she would change her habit —the decision which came from the realization of the fact that she had allowed her children to usurp her rights that she had made them foolishly dependent upon her. "I'm so sorry, my dear," came at last in an even voice, "but I'm going shopping and won't be able to oblige you." "There's nothing wrong, is there, mother? Nothing from what I said the other morning?" gasped Isobel. "Nothing, my dear, nothing," mother hastened to reply. "I'm so glad, I was afraid — well, goodbye, mother," faltered Isobel. "Goodbye, dear." Isobel hung up the receiver wondering what in the world could make her mother put shopping before caring for her little grandson. Mother hung up the receiver, grimly determined to stick to her new resolve, no matter what the cost. MOTHER TAKES ADVICE. 439 During the weeks that followed Mrs. Hartley was tried to the utmost. The remarks of Isobel had made her most unhappy. She was offended with her daughter's presumption in daring to suggest such a thing to her mother. Her pride was wounded at the thought that her methods were not perfect in the sight of her child. She realized, however, that there was truth in Isobel's criticism. She had sacrificed herself to her family, to their detriment and her own. It was here that mother's fighting blood rose magnificently. Having made up her mind that she should change her ways, instead of grieving, she threw herself valiantly upon the task. With the courage which had enabled her to become the mother of seven children she attacked the problem. With the valorous endurance which had brought seven little babes to the estate of manhood and womanhood she undertook the struggle which revolutionary Isobel advised. The refusal to tend Isobel's baby was, so to speak, the first gun fired. After that the shots came thick and fast. Mother went shopping and brought home nothing for anyone but herself. Mother arranged for each daughter at home to attend to a certain portion of the housework. Mother took care of her own room, but spent most of her time in her own interests. "In her selfish interests," commented the astonished daughters. On the third morning after this new arrangement of affairs, mother remained in bed until eleven. It was the first time the family remembered such an occurrence. It was the first time in thirty-five years that mother had not been the first one in the house astir. Beatrice, in alarm, peeped into her room, to find her sleeping peacefully. Mother spent hours on the veranda engrossed with delicate embroidery and filmy laces. She fashioned blouses and lingerie with the exquisite skill for which she had been famous as a girl. And they were all for mother! No extra silk blouse for Viola, "just for a change, my dear." No new embroidered collar and cuffs for Beatrice. No more monogrammed slips for Mignon. These days the girls even mended their own torn laces, darned their own hose, and sewed on their own buttons. Mother got out her guitar and after stealthy practices behind locked doors, took to playing "Annie Laurie" and "Ben Bolt" to father, happily ensconced in his great arm chair and house slippers on the vine-covered balcony. Mother devoting her entire time to herself was enough cause for silent wonder among the family. Mother in a soft crepe gown of father's favorite shade of rose, playing and humming sentimental airs, was cause for whispered alarm and suggestions that someone had better see the doctor. It was Isobel who suggested to the family that they make a special celebration for their parents' wedding anniversary in September. Isobel, perplexed and worried, wished to make amends 
 for her rudeness to her mother, to clear away the slight estrangement which seemed to have come between them. Although the gathering was to be a surprise, Isobel took it upon herself to drop her mother several very definite hints that something was afoot for the wedding day. Surprises are all very well, in their way, but Isobel thought it might work better if her mother knew about it beforehand. The family threw themselves into the preparations gallantly. Fanny, Bob's wife, made a gorgeous wedding cake, all frosted over with the hard, indigestible frosting that is guaranteed to preserve the cake fifty years. Geraldine, the second sister-in-law, fried the chicken. The affair was to be one of father's favorite chicken suppers. Margie, the other sister-in-law, prepared a clever little toast for the occasion. She was to sit near the head of the table and sort of start things off. At eight o'clock on the eventful day, the whole family assembled. Bob, stout and jocular, as became the eldest member, tiptoed through the kitchen door with Bob, Jr., and Fanny trailing breathlessly after him. Parker, followed by Geraldine and wide-eyed Nancy seeing her first party, crept in, holding his wriggling, squirming, year-old son tightly in his arms, one hand raised in readiness to cover his offspring's mouth in case of untimely, lusty howls. Margie and Tim and their two sons tried to squeeze through the door together in their haste to get in without giving away the surprise. Tim, of course, was immediately possessed of an insane desire to sneeze, and even after Margie pressed her finger hard on his upper lip as a preventive, gave vent to a ludicrously muffled "Kerchew!" "There! aren't they perfectly dear?" whispered Isobel. She spread on the sideboard the silver salad forks and round-bowled soup spoons which the children had decided to add as a present to their parents' silver service. "Lovely," came in a subdued chorus. "Leave them spread out," suggested Viola, as she brought in the salad. "I suppose we may as well bring things in — they'll be here any minute now." "Yes, I arranged with Mrs. Dennison to have an evening engagement so that mother and father would have to leave right after dinner. They ought to be here by eight-thirty." Isobel gave a satisfied pat to the silver. So the family settled down in the parlor to wait. The grandchildren took turns acting as lookouts at the front door. At nine o'clock there were no grandparents in sight, and the little lookouts, losing interest, began to return via the dining room route, concealing olives in suddenly swollen cheeks and munching and hastily swallowing salted almonds. Ten o'clock dragged round and no father and mother. The MOTHER TAKES ADVICE. 441 valiant lookouts, satisfied with their gleanings of olives, nuts and cake, one by one curled themselves up in the big chairs and went to sleep. Bob and Parker holding sleeping infants, exchanged anxious glances. Viola stifled a yawn and Mignon, from the piano bench, gave a violent nod which woke her up. "I can stand this no longer," burst out Isobel. "Something has gone wrong, an accident, perhaps, and father and mother may be hurt —" "Nonsense, Isobel," put in Tim. "Don't alarm yourself." "Well, I'm sure something has happened, otherwise they would have telephoned. I'm going out to look for them." She hurried from the house and through the garden. They all trooped after her. "Listen!" she said in a hushed voice at the gate. "Horses! and it sounds like the rubber wheels of the ambulance!" As they went through the gate, a smartly built phaeton drawn by a pair of horses turned into the moonlit avenue. "Mother and father!" gasped Isobel. "And she didn't come to her wedding party even when she knew about it — that's taking my advice with a vengeance!" The others stared. The horses, unheeded by father, guided themselves, as all well-trained livery-stable horses that are hired to lovers do. Under the leafy trees that arched across the avenue and dappled it with shadow, father and mother drove, unconscious of their gazing children. And silhouetted against the gleaming harvest moon, they saw father's arm steal round mother's waist and mother's head droop down on father's shoulder. EMMA LUCY GATES' WEDDING CAKE. (Made by her Mother and iced by herself.) 6 well beaten eggs, 1 lb. of stoned raisins, 1 lb. of cleaned currants 1 lb. of chopped walnuts, 1/4 lb. of butter, 1/2 lb. of sugar, creamed with butter, 1 lb. of flour, with 1 teaspoon of yeast powder mix flour with the fruit. Inside of one baker's loaf of bread, crumbed, 1 cup of rich, sweet milk, 1 teaspoon each of lemon, vanilla, cinnamon and nutmeg, 2 tablespoons ground chocolate, 2 tablespoons preserved plums or peaches. Mix batter, add bread crumbs and nuts, lastly the floured fruit. Bake all night in fireless cooker.