Proper Guidance of Children. By Lucy Wright Snow. AUTHORITY. When Jesus said, "My gospel is not mine but His that sent me," He showed us how profoundly He respected the authority of His Father. In this example of our own dear Savior we find one of the first essentials of proper guidance of children. When a child has come to feel the authority of his parents, yet still maintaining his freedom to think and act for himself, the problem of his proper guidance is near a solution. In order that this authority may be a proper authority, it is necessary that a perfect harmony of purpose exist between the parents of a family. How best this unity may be obtained is truly the problem of the parents. They should together study their ideals, and together watch them mature and crystallize, always keeping in mind the old adage, "United we stand divided; we fall." When parents are united in purpose, it becomes an easy matter to train and develop children in the home as a unit, which unit produces in turn, love and loyalty, and may be a power for good throughout all time. Each child should understand that he is responsible for his part in making the home happy, and a child very soon learns to accept this responsibility as one of the real pleasures of his little life. "Man is that he might have joy" applies from the cradle to the grave, and a child, properly anticipated, directed and employed, will get as much satisfaction and joy out of his little tasks and responsibilities as adults derive from theirs. When we learn the importance of respecting authority, we should next come to realize the necessity of CONFORMITY TO LAW. In early life a child obeys mother because he must obey he is incapable of reasoning, and the mother must use her reasoning power for him. Psychologists tell us that a child mind begins to philosophize or develop reasoning power at about the age of four years and, since a child's philosophy is his religion, here we find psychological reasons for our law of baptism at eight years. As he reaches about the age of eight he should begin to know that he must do right, not because he will please mother, PROPER GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 443 but because it is essential for him to obey the law of right. Law is inevitable, and must be obeyed, or the consequences suffered. Children should be taught early in life to do little tasks that are unpleasant. All our heroes became great through doing things that they didn't want to do. Why should a child be allowed to think that he may leave the unpleasant tasks for someone else to do? Let him get the habit of giving to his parents, and sensing the duty of doing for them it will bring him happiness as it brings us happiness to do the work of our heavenly Father. Teach a child to bear disappointment and suffering. This is the valuable lesson of self control. Many mothers conceal coming events from their children because the things may, after all, not happen, in which case "the disappointment would be so hard to bear." "Of course, if disappointment is thus treated as an experience to be avoided in every possible way, then disappointment will become an unbearable pain. But life is a series of disappointments as it is a series of fulfilments and surprises, and children should learn to meet disappointments as one of the interesting problems of life. They should grow accustomed to turn defeat into victory, by filling every disheartening gap with something which could not otherwise have been had." As for the ills of life, they are the result of broken laws. When our first parents ate the fruit of this earth, they became mortal, and thereby subject to the ills and weaknesses of the flesh why not make the most of a condition, and not scatter the poison of our complaint to those around us? Better to learn in infancy to bear trials with the strength and fortitude that God will give to the earnest solicitor, and in so doing our minds will remain clearer and more receptive in gaining knowledge and we are told that we are saved no faster than we gain knowledge. Now it is for us mothers to remember that the human mind is most active in absorbing its food in infancy and early childhood, and realize the importance of a healthy mental and spiritual environment for the child. Books to read on the subject: Scripture, "Gentle Measures in the Management and Training of the Young," by Jacob Abbot "Childhood," by Mrs. Birney "Fundamentals of Child Study," by Kirkpatrick.