Mary Ann Frost Stearns Pratt The subject of this sketch was a pioneer woman in the truest and broadest sense of the term. She was born in Bethel, Maine, Jan. 14, 1809. Her parents were Aaron Frost and Susan Gray. She was married to Nathan Stearns in 1831, and after two happy years of married life was left a widow with an infant daughter, Mary Ann, five months old. She says of herself: "I was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ, in the spring of 1835, being converted to the truthfulness of its doctrines by the first sermon I heard, and I said in my heart, if there are only three who hold firm to the faith, I will be one of that number; and through all the persecutions I have had to endure, I have ever felt the same; my heart has never swerved from that resolve." What appealed to her most in the gospel was the principle of redemption for the dead, for she deeply mourned the loss of her young husband, and the thought that she could be united to him for eternity gave her the greatest consolation. She began her pilgrimage when she left her native state, with her little daughter, four years old, to cast her lot with the Saints, having to sacrifice the little dowry left to her daughter by her husband, because the child's guardian refused to let her take it to the "Mormons." She was married to Parley P. Pratt, who was a widower, on May 9, 1837, bearing four children by Brother Pratt, but lost two of them as infants in Nauvoo. She passed, with her husband through the many persecutions and missionary experiences that are recorded in history, going to him with her two children at one time when he was in prison, and sharing his dungeon which she describes as "A damp, dark, filthy place: without ventilation, merely having a small grating on one side." The following lines were written by her husband at this time: 
 CONSTANT MARY. When death had bereft me of one that was dear, And fortune had left me in sadness and tears, While gloom o'er my cottage in solitude reigned, And deep in my bosom grief's arrow remained. The Lord in much mercy look'd down from above, And gave me sweet Mary, an angel of love Her form was most lovely, her countenance fair, Though marks of deep sorrow still lingering there. O Mary, sweet Mary, still gentle and kind, Thy heart is all goodness and pure is thy mind. How oft in affliction still faithful you've proved, In sorrow and trouble my spirits have soothed. When far from your country and friends I would roam To seek in the wilds of Missouri a home, My kind-hearted Mary, still constant and true, To go with her Parley, bade friends all adieu. Then o'er the rough billows of ocean's strong tide, In storms and commotion she sailed by my side O'er hills and o'er mountains, still onward we rode, And along the broad rivers to seek an abode. At length on the far distant plains of the west We reared our lone cottage, a cottage of rest. And there 'mid the wild flowers that bloomed o'er the plain, Our tender, sweet offspring we strove to maintain. But scarce had kind autumn rewarded our toil, And plenty around us begun for to smile, When torn from her bosom in prison confined, Adieu my fond Mary, I leave you behind. O no, said sweet Mary, I'll quickly repair To the cold, dreary prison and live with you there A dark, lonesome dungeon a palace will prove When blessed with presence of him that I love. Then welcome misfortune, since Heaven has deigned, To send me an Angel so constant and kind; In palace or prison I am happy with thee, And Eden without thee is no Eden to me. MARY ANN FROST STEARNS PRATT. 425 She accompanied her husband on various missions, first to New York and thence to England, where she remained two years. She was with the Saints in their expulsion from Nauvoo and endured all the privations following and finally gathered to Utah, where she arrived in 1852. There she took her full share with the other pioneer women in the primitive work of the new country, spinning, coloring, weaving, gleaning, etc. But her greatest work was ministering to the sick, as for many years there was not a single doctor in the small town of Pleasant Grove where she lived. While she had no special training she never refused to go when called upon, and always prayed to God for help and guidance and would say to her daughter, with whom she lived, when leaving the house on her errand, "Mary, pray for me that all may be well." And these prayers were answered, for out of the many hundreds of births that she attended, no mother was called to leave her family. She was brave and fearless, strong, and self-reliant, resourceful in character, and she devoted her entire life to her religion, her family, and to humanity. She died in Pleasant Grove at the age of 83. She came to Utah with her family of three children and settled among the people of God, and her posterity is now nearing the two hundred mark. The following extract from the history of Parley P. Pratt gives us a charming picture of the conditions, at that time, surrounding himself and wife Mary Ann Stearns Pratt: "During this conference I received a letter from my family in New York, informing me that they were dangerously ill of scarlet fever. I, therefore, by advice of the other members of the quorum, concluded to cross the ocean once more and bring them to England, where I was likely to remain for several years rather in a stationary position as an editor and publisher. I accordingly repaired immediately to Liverpool and embarked for New York. I was thirty-seven days confined on this dreary passage, without any friends or associates who cared for me or the cause of truth. "I then landed in New York, found my wife and children recovered from their sickness, for which I felt truly thankful. They were agreeably surprised at seeing me so soon and so unexpectedly, and so were the Saints in that city and vicinity. After several joyful meetings among them, I went to the State of Maine on a visit with my wife and children to her parents and kindred. They lived in Bethel, Oxford County, about sixty miles from Portland, the seaport where we landed. The day before our arrival, my wife's sister, a Mrs. Bean, prophesied to her husband that Brother Pratt and family would arrive there the next evening, and she actually changed the bedding and prepared the best room for our reception, as if she had received 
 notice of our coming. At this her husband and friends laughed in derision, 'for,' said they, 'our brother-in-law is in England and his family in New York; how, then, will he be here tonight?' But she still persisted, and made ready the room and all things for our reception, assuring them that I would arrive that night with my family. "Night came, the deep shades of evening gathered around, a dark and gloomy night set in, and still no signs of us. They still laughed her to scorn for her superstition, and she still persisted in her anticipations of our momentary arrival. At length, as they were about to retire to rest, we knocked at the door and were joyfully received it being the first time that any of my wife's kindred there had seen my face. "Mrs. Bean had a dream a few days previous to our arrival, in which she dreamed that I came to her and gave her a key to the Bible. As she related the dream to me, I presented her with my Voice of Warning. It seemed to her and her husband as they read it as if it was indeed a key to the doctrine and prophecies of the Holy Scriptures. They rejoiced with exceeding joy, and promised to be baptized, and to gather to Nauvoo, if God would only open their way to sell their farm. "My father-in-law, Aaron Frost, and household, and all our kindred and many others in that region, received me with joy and hospitality, and I preached several times in their churches. "I finally took leave of them and returned to New York accompanied by my wife's sister, Olive Frost, a young lady of some twenty years of age, who accompanied us to England to help us in the family. "We soon embarked, and after a long and tedious passage, we arrived again in England in October, 1840. My family then consisted of my wife and wife's sister, and my wife's daughter, Mary Ann Stearns, and my sons, Parley and Nathan." AN AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF THE LATE MARY ANN STEARNS WINTERS, DAUGHTER OF MARY ANN STEARNS PRATT. I was born in Bethel, Oxford Co., state of Maine, April 6, 1833. Am the daughter of Nathan Stearns and Mary Ann Frost. My father died August 25, 1833, when I was not quite five months old, so I never knew the looks of a father, or had the tender care of a father's love but all the devotion of my heart that would have extended to both parents was centered in my loving and faithful mother and our lives were so interwoven that one story cannot be told without the other. My father and mother were lovers in the true sense of the meaning, and she often said that she never received a cross word from him, or saw MARY ANN FROST STEARNS PRATT. 427 a cross look on his face when turned to her, but always a smile of love and approbation. And of his health, my grandma said, "He had never missed a meal through sickness from the time he was two years old." But while working in the harvest field, one sultry July day, he was stricken with typhus fever (then prevalent in the community) and after four weeks of bleeding, cupping and blistering, he answered to the call of the reaper. In a few days my mother also became ill with the disease, and two others of the family, and I was taken by a kind neighbor to be weaned. After a few weeks when I was taken to the bedside of my mother, and she was asked if she knew whose baby it was, she shook her head and when asked to look again, she still could not think, but as her eyes wandered down to the little dress she had fashioned in love and anticipation, the truth dawned upon her, and she clasped me to her bosom with tears of motherly love and affection. With the return of memory came the great weight of sorrow that had come to my mother, and she mourned as one not to be comforted, but taking up the burden of life for my sake, she wandered wearily on still clothed in garbs of deep mourning till three years had passed away, when the glorious light of the gospel burst forth to illumine the souls of all who would accept its glad message. In August, 1836, Apostle Brigham Young with five others of his quorum came down through Vermont and New Hampshire, and held conference in my native town, Bethel. They were there more than a week, and the Spirit of the Lord was poured out in great abundance upon the people of that and the adjoining towns who gathered and listened to the glad tidings. Many were baptized at that time, and most of them moved to Kirtland. My mother and grandmother Frost were baptized by Apostle David W. Patten, and after he confirmed my mother he also administered to her, by the laying on of hands, for the palpitation of the heart, and she was immediately healed. She had suffered with it severely for a number of years, but she was never heard to complain of her heart again, though she lived to be nearly eighty-two years old, and passed through many frightening scenes of mobs, Indian scares, and intimidating circumstances. My Grandfather Frost was baptized about a year after by Elder John Pack, and my mother's sister, Olive Grey Frost, was baptized about the same time, by Elder Duncan McArthur. My uncle, Orange Clark Frost, was the first of our family to hear the gospel, and when he came home he said, "Mother, I would carry you twenty miles the darkest night that ever was to hear such a sermon as I have heard tonight." Yet he never joined the Church —his wife and her folks were so much opposed that he did not see fit to incur their displeasure. My grandfather 
 and grandmother Stearns, though very good, religious people, never accepted the gospel, but one of their daughters, Mrs. Thankful Bessy, her husband and two children, joined the Church in the early days and remained faithful to the end— the mother and son dying in Manti, and both are lying beneath the shades of the Temple to await the resurrection day. The son, my cousin, Anthony S. Bessy, is living and does much work in the Manti Temple for our kindred dead in my father's line of ancestry. As was usual in those days, the spirit of gathering rested upon the converts, and agreeable to the counsel given, all who could do so, gathered to the body of the Church, then located at Kirtland, Ohio. My mother prepared to take the journey with the little company that was going with the returning elders. These were John Carter and his sister, Eliza, of Newry, Maine; Aphia Woodman and Phebe Carter from Scarboro, Maine and others that I do not call to mind at this time. Eliza Carter became the wife of James C. Snow, and Phebe Carter, (not related to the others), was the wife of Apostle Wilford Woodruff. Aphia Woodman did not live many years, and was not married. After my father's death a guardian was appointed for me, and to take care of the little means that was left for my benefit. He was much opposed to "Mormonism," and would never consent to my being taken with them, but my mother considered she had the first and best right to her own child. Without asking leave she started with me, August 16, 1836, a little ahead of the company, and Father David Sessions took us, the night before the others started, in his carriage to Portland, where we were ready to take the boat for Boston when the others arrived. I well remember that night journey of sixty miles, for I was very tired of the jolting before it was finished. I remember going on the boat, but it was a night boat, and when I awoke in the morning, we were landed at Boston, and there, for the first time we saw the Prophet Joseph Smith who had been preaching in that vicinity. To me he seemed larger and nobler than any other man, and when he was introduced as "the Prophet," his mission seemed as sure to me as that I could see the sun shine in the heavens, or that Abraham was a man of God, as my mother had taught me from the Bible. We stayed in Boston three days, at the home of Aunt Polly Vose, the Saints constantly receiving instructions from the lips of the Prophet. This, of course, I could not understand, but I watched him closely and realized that what he was saying was good and true. A number more joined the company in Boston and they proceeded on their journey, arriving at Kirtland in due season. My mother went to the home of Brother Brigham Young, and we boarded there through the winter. I became acquainted with his little daughters Elizabeth and Vilate, and they were my first friends in the Church, and we always remembered that time in our after lives with pleasure. During the winter the younger children of the family took the measles and my turn came with the others. I was very sick and always remembered my suffering at that time. Drs. Willard and Levi Richards had just arrived from their homes in Massachusetts to investigate the gospel and were stopping at Brother Young's. They were Thompsonian doctors, and Sister Young was a strong convert to that practice so, of course, we were liberally dosed with composition, lobelia, etc. To me the red pepper was something dreadful, and taking the composition through straws did not help the matter much and oh, how I did long for a drink of cold water. But we got well, the dear little twins and all, and I will not condemn the bridge that helped to bring us safely over. About this time the doctors had asked to be baptized. I watched them as they departed, and upon their return, and when Sister Young shook hands with them and greeted them as "Brother Richards," I thought then they were all right, especially as I did not have to take any more of their medicine. Mother with some others went to the baptizing to assist with the singing, and they all returned rejoicing in the New and Everlasting Gospel. I remember the name of one of the hymns that was sung on the occasion, "Now Let us Rejoice in the Day of Salvation." Brother Young had labored so faithfully to explain the gospel to them, and, little as I was, I wondered they didn't believe it sooner. I thought everybody ought to believe the gospel and become Latter-day Saints. It was now drawing near spring. Brother Hyrum Smith's family had moved into their new house, and my mother went there to board for a time. Sister Smith was a kind, motherly woman, gentle and sweet in all her ways. She never tired of doing that which would bring peace and happiness to those around her. As I had neither brother nor sister, I took special delight in playing with a doll —the larger it was, and if it could have some of my clothing on it, the better I was suited. But Brother Smith did not approve of children playing with dolls, and my mother and Sister Smith used all their best arguments to persuade me to give them up. At last I yielded, not very willingly or with a very good grace, I fear, but because I thought I must. I had not been converted to that Puritanical idea — that it was wrong for little girls to play with dolls when they loved them so much, and I have always considered this my first sacrifice. Sister Smith gave me a new dress, if I would not have any more dolls while I was there. This soothed my feelings for the time being, but did not quench my love in the least, for my little dumb companions. I had a somewhat strange dream while we were living there. I would hear a rumbling sound as of chairs moving and people walking overhead, and the ceiling would open and men would come down, sometimes one, sometimes two, and again three and stand and look at me a few seconds and then return again as they came. This was repeated several times, and I thought they were holding a meeting up there but the strange part of it was, they were dressed just as our elders are now when they are prepared for burial. I have never yet found out why this dream came to me, but I must believe it had some purpose, on account of the clothing the people wore. During this time my mother had attended one of the prayer meetings in the temple and received her patriarchal blessing, and also I had received my childhood blessing into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Great promises were extended to mother in her blessing, and particular mention of me was made in it also. As the spring days passed on, my mother went to live in a part of the house previously occupied by Brother Hyrum Smith's family just across the street and a little north of their new home. And there she began housekeeping, and during the time we remained there many things transpired that fastened themselves indelibly in my memory. I was very lonesome. Though my mother did everything she could to amuse and entertain me, still there was a loneliness not to be overcome in that way. She taught me my a, b, c's by cutting out letters and pasting them around the fireplace k was the hardest I was used to keys, and if that letter had been key I should have known it at once. Then the terrible crickets — they sang so loudly, and seemed to be singing right at me. I couldn't understand what they said and imagined all sorts of terrible things. They looked harmless enough, and mother said they wouldn't hurt anyone, but what did they sing so loud for? No "cricket on the hearth" for me, if you please. I had learned to knit and had a pair of stockings nearly done and mother wanted me to finish them by my fourth birthday. I knit very tight and mother had to knit around every other time to loosen up the stitches, but I had them done in time, and was very glad for a number of reasons it is quite a task for a little active girl to sit down and knit very long at a time, and it was a great relief to have the job off my hands, as well as a pleasure to see what I had done. In those early days snuff-taking was quite fashionable. My father had given mother a very pretty snuff box, and though she had not practiced using snuff herself, she had the box filled and a nice vanilla bean in it to scent the snuff, and when old ladies came to see her would pass it round to them. It was also customary, for people in trouble to smoke or take snuff to soothe their feelings and pass away the time (poor souls), and this course was urged upon mother. Smoking she could not think of, as it seemed too troublesome a habit, but she had become quite used to taking snuff before she heard the gospel sound. But now, after hearing "The Word of Wisdom" taught she must not partake of the forbidden snuff any longer. And in her patriarchal blessing, too, "Word of Wisdom" was spelled with large letters, so now the sacrifice must surely begin. It was her habit, immediately after eating, to take a good pinch of snuff, but now instead, she placed the snuff box on the chimney-piece over the letters and above the crickets and took the Book of Mormon and sat down to read till all desire for the snuff had passed and thus she gained the victory, with the temptation in plain sight. And oh how thankful she was in after years for the knowledge of the evil, and for strength to overcome it. And now another trial and sacrifice awaited us both. My own father had been a lieutenant in the State militia and had a nice uniform suit of blue broadcloth with bright buttons these mother had kept and treasured and brought with her from our home in the East, and with tears of loving memory used often to show them to me and tell me about him, and at those times I could better realize that I truly had a father, and it almost seemed that he was with us in person for the time being. But there was a brother W. that had been called on a mission, and he was destitute of suitable clothing for the journey and could not go until he had a better supply, and a friend that knew about the suit hinted to mother that it would "just about" fit brother W. and would be very acceptable at that time. At first mother could not entertain the idea for a moment, but upon further reflection her conscience would not allow her to hold back a treasure that the gospel called for and was not the occasion worthy the suit? Accordingly, mother removed the bright buttons and replaced them with citizen buttons, and with many tears we looked upon that suit for the last time, mother telling me always to remember it as being worn by my dear father and our sacrifice was made willingly though sorrowfully, and I think I will never just know what it cost my dear mother. During this time we were constant attendants at meetings in the temple, and I can especially remember the fast-meetings, and can recall at this day the great power and good spirit that were experienced on those occasions and it was generally known that Father Joseph Smith, the Patriarch, would not break his fast and partake of food till the sun went down, and I thought he was the most wonderful person to willingly go without food for that length of time, and that he must surely be like Abraham, the faithful, that mother had told me so often about. And after the close of one of the meetings, mother took me to the stand and showed me the place on the pulpit where the Savior had stood when He appeared to the Prophet, and where afterwards Moses and Elias came and delivered the keys for the gathering of the Saints (Israel), and the redemption of the dead. One day mother took me to see the Egyptian mummies that were in the upper corridor of the temple. I was very pleased to go, for there was much talk about them, and I thought it would be so nice to go and see them, but when I saw them they frightened me very much they had such an unearthly look to me. They were dark in color, and hard as metal, and the cloth they were wrapped in was petrified like the bodies. Brother Joseph explained much about them that I could not understand, and said they were thousands of years old. I remember of partaking of the Sacrament of bread and wine, in the Kirtland Temple, and when I would have liked more of the wine, mother explained to me that it was in memory of the blood of our Savior when He was upon the cross. After that I was always satisfied to partake of the proper quantity and with reverence in my heart also. My mother had belonged to a choir in her Eastern home, but she could not join it now on account of care of her little girl, but there was much congregational singing, and I learned many of the Latter-day Saints hymns at that time "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning," "Now Let us Rejoice," "Glorious Things of Thee are Spoken," and "Redeemer of Israel," "There's a Feast of Fat Things for the Righteous Preparing," were all as familiar to me as my daily breath, it seemed, and I learned them by heart, and I do not need a book when they are singing them now, though I cannot join, but I sing in my heart, nevertheless, in the singing. (to be continued) "Marriage hath been established as the union of the spiritual, as well as, the physical being. "The sign of a true marriage is increase, not only of the race, but also the attributes of the soul. "It is an eternal marriage, valid throughout all the eternal world." (From the writings of the Persian exile and preacher who adopted the name of Baha Allah, meaning Glory to God.