The Toilers. By Maud Baggarley. Oh thou who hast striven through all the long years Who hath known bitter heartache Hath wept secret tears; Yet labored serenely through heat and through rain, For the sake of the hands clinging, Hath hidden thy pain. The while a voice called thee, insistently sweet, Thy high spirit hampered By slow plodding feet Of those who didst need thee. Unsung the glad songs astir in thy heart That fluttered and beat like imprisoned wings Thy horny hands gnarled from toil Canst never awake from the string of a harp, Those measures divine Yet canst thou not see Thou shalt fear not nor fall, For triumph o'er self God ranks above all And for the missed baubles thou mightest have sought, In thine own life is a miracle wrought, Success out of failures; And joy out of pain The place near the stars Thou ne'er thought to gain! Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in September. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. ESTHER. (Read the Story of Esther.) The "Book of Esther" is less popular than the "Book of Ruth," doubtless because its appeal is not so universal. The theme of the latter is personal loyalty that of the former is race loyalty. But the Jewish girl who followed her fortunes in a foreign land till she became the wife of the greatest monarch of her time is more of a character I do not say a better character than the foreign maiden who pursued her destiny into Palestine to reap in alien fields. Esther lived in what is known in Hebrew history as the Greek Period ?the most probably. She was of the latter part, dispersion, that is to say, her people were scattered over the face of the land, whither they had been driven by the armies of a heathen king. In those days Ahasuerus ruled over an empire of a hundred twenty-seven provinces. A voluptuous tyrant, proud of his greatness, as greatness went in those days, he was led by his princes to put away his wife, Vashti, merely because she refused to expose her beauty to an assembly of notables of the empire. In her stead he chose Esther, a Jewish maiden, probably without knowing that she was Jewish. A crisis came in the fortunes of her people during her queenship, with which the "Story of Esther" concerns itself. Haman, a vain, conceited man whom the king had placed above the princes of his realm, contracted a violent dislike for Mordecai, Esther's uncle, and through him for the entire Jewish population. So he induced the king to order all the Hebrews to be massacred, "all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day." And this monstrous crime would have been accomplished had it not been for the wit of Esther. At the suggestion of her uncle, Mordecai, she interceded with the king for her people. She invited the king and Haman to a special "banquet of wine," and in answer to the former's question, "What is thy petition, Queen GUIDE LESSONS. 469 Esther?" she said, "If I have found favor in thy sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given me at my petition, and my people at my request for we are sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be slain and to perish." The king inquired who had presumed in his heart to do this. In reply the queen pointed the accusing finger at Haman, "An adversary and an enemy, even this wicked Haman." The result was that Haman was hanged on the gallows that he had had erected for Mordecai. Mordecai, partly through the influence of Esther and partly through an all but forgotten service he had performed for the king, was raised to Haman's power, the Jews were saved, and all ended happily. Esther was left an orphan. After the death of her parents, she fell to the care of her uncle, Mordecai, a shrewd man who knew when the tide was in. His niece "obtained favor in the sight of all them that looked upon her." It appears that, in addition to certain physical charms, she possessed a disposition that adjusted itself to circumstances with as little inconvenience as possible to others. "And the maiden pleased him," says the narrator, "and she obtained kindness of him and he speedily gave her things for purification, with her portions, and the seven maidens, which were meet to be given her, out of the king's household," "and she obtained kindness of him and he speedily gave her things for purification, with her portions, and the seven maidens, which were meet to be given her, out of the king's house. And he removed her and her maidens to the best place of the house of the women." Esther's character seems to be a compound of girlish dependence on sources outside herself, of womanly resource and mother-wit, and of a personal charm that won an easy place in the affections of those about her. Of this last quality I have already spoken. It remains to speak of the other two. All through the narrative it appears that she relies for initiative on the experienced wisdom of her uncle. She is obedient to his every suggestion. When she is first taken into the king's palace, she does not show "her people nor her kindred" for "Mordecai had charged her not to show it." And even after she had been made queen and was loved by the king "above all the women," she "did the commandment of Mordecai, like as when she was brought up with him." Later, when the decree was issued against the Jews, and Mordecai suggested that she should "make supplication unto him and make request before him for her people," she was distrustful of her power. She requested Mordecai to "gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan," to fast for her three days, and "I also and my maiden will fast in like manner," Once, however, she senses the danger to her people and her power of delivering them, she becomes suddenly courageous and resourceful. "All the king's servants, and the people of the king's provinces," she tells her uncle, "do know, that whosoever, whether man or woman, shall come unto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is one law for him, that he be put to death, except such to whom the king shall hold out the golden sceptre, that he may live." Nevertheless, she stoically accepted the risk. "I will go in unto the king," she adds, "which is not according to the law and if I perish, I perish." She entered the king's presence, and he extended the golden sceptre to her. To his question, "What wilt thou?" she answered evasively, "If it seem good unto the king, let the king and Haman come this day unto the banquet that I have prepared for him." But even then she, whether out of fearfulness or out of a desire to whet his curiosity, withheld her request in her people's behalf, and begged him to come to a second banquet with Haman. It was at this second feast that she revealed to her royal spouse the evil plot of the aspiring Haman. The immediate result of Esther's revelation of this man's dealings was that Haman was put out of the way. It remained for a second visit to the king by Esther to induce him "to reverse the letters devised by Haman" against the Jews. So Mordecai, who had by this time been given Haman's place, sent letters to all the provisional governors annulling the order issued to destroy the Hebrews. The queen, however, was not satisfied with this mere reversal. She wished for severer measures. Said Esther, when the king told her what the Jews had done to their enemies at Shushan, "If it please the king, let it be granted to the Jews which are in Shushan to do tomorrow also according to this day's decree, and let Haman's ten sons be hanged upon the gallows," which the king ordered done. The character of Esther stands out in that inimitable and effortless way peculiar to the writers of the Bible, and is drawn with the few fresco strokes which is the envy of modern novelists. She is not the domestic woman that Ruth is nor yet a Judith devoting herself to one bold deed rather is she the eternal woman, making use of her charms and her wit to plan by a series of stayed battles the salvation of a people to whom she is dedicated heart and soul. Nor is God left out of consideration, although His name does not occur in the whole story. Back of it all, however, is a religious atmosphere, an inexpressible something, that implies that God has a chosen people, that Israel is isolated, and that the Father is still caring for His people in the hollow of His hand. QUESTIONS. 1. Why is Ruth a more popular Biblical character than Esther? 2. Who was Esther? 3. Compare and contrast at as many points as you can the character of Ruth and Esther. GUIDE LESSONS. 471 4. What do you think of Esther's obtaining the king's consent for the Jews to be massacred? 5. Point out the things in Esther that differ from our ideals today; those that agree with ours. 6. In what respects do those times differ from ours? LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in September. LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in September. GENEALOGY. SURNAMES. A surname is a name sub-joined or added to the personal name. In other words, it is a family name. Surnames were not unknown in ancient times. The Romans had a personal name, then a family name, and then a tribal name. Hebrews also used surnames to some extent. Simon Barjonah was Simon of the tribe of Jonah. Like the personal name or Christian name, a surname is a means of identification for the individual. It is a family symbol, as it were. Simon may be one of ten thousand Hebrews. Simon Bar-jonah is one who belongs to the tribe or family of Jonah, and thus constitutes another means of identification, both for legal and social purposes. Surnames were not used in the modern sense until after the time of William the Conqueror. When he came over to England, with his horde of Norman adventurers and Barons, and conquered the Anglo-Saxon-Danish population, which had taken possession centuries before of the British Isles, William roughly seized the lands and properties of the Anglo-Saxons and quartered his nobles all over the land. Finding it necessary to secure these lands to their new owners by some surer means of identification, as well as to discover just how much landed property could be assessed in his new kingdom, William caused an extensive and minute survey of the kingdom to be made through heralds or Court agents which he sent out for that purpose. These heralds recorded their findings in what is known as the Domesday Book. The result of their records in this Book constitutes the very foundation of surname history for the English speaking peoples. "After the coronation of William no man could hold an acre by an ante-Norman title. All were obliged to obtain a deed from the king, and it was exceptional that a thegn of the time of King Edward should retain his possessions under King William. Dispossessed, he must sink to be tenant-farmer or a villein. The freeholder of his allodial land had become extinct, and a network of officials was cast over England, holding the people involved in its toils." The various owners of the manors and estates, both Saxon and Norman, found it necessary to designate themselves by a surname or added title beside their given or Christian names. As an illustration "At Christmas, 1171, Henry Courthose, son of Henry II., held his Court at Bayeux. It occurred to two Williams, the Seneschal of Brittany and the Governor of Normandy, to exclude from the outer hall every guest who was not named William, and they were able to admit 117 knights of that name, and this was in addition to the Williams who sat at table with the young king. It became necessary for men to assume some sort of surname in order to distinguish William from William, and John from John, hence there would be William White and William Brown. All kinds of whims, fancies, and circumstances, contribute to the making of surnames for the English speaking peoples. There were surnames taken from the father name and the mother name, from the castle and manor, from the village and the town. There were trade names and place names, nick and descriptive names, prefixes and suffixes. Add to all this the influx of Scandinavian names, of French names, especially with the Huguenot refugees, of Scottish and Irish names, and you have a confusion of surname sources that constitute almost a babel of unintelligible origins. If the genealogist, however, is to carry on his study and inquiry, back of 100 years, he must acquaint himself with the surname of his family on both the maternal and paternal sides. These surnames give vital clues to the history and origin of the family itself. We invite our students, therefore, to join in a study, not only of their own surnames, but also of the subject itself, so that we may become intelligent in our search for our ancestors. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 1. What is a surname? 2. What can you say of Biblical surnames? 3. Who was William the Conqueror? (See English History.) 4. What do you know about the Domesday Book? 5. Who were the Angels? (See History or Encyclopedia.) 6. Who were the Saxons? 7. Who were the Jutes? 8. Who were the Danes, and how did they come into England? 9. How were surnames chosen? 10. Why is it necessary to have a name, or a surname? ? Note. All genealogical committees, both ward and stake, are urged to arrange for a beginners class in the study and practice of genealogy, with the opening of this season. The advanced lessons we are taking up this year will be arranged so that all the students can follow them with profit and pleasure, but every ward should have a working knowledge of preparing and keeping genealogical information, and there is no better way to do this than by having regular lessons given through the winter months in each ward for beginners. ART AND ARCHITECTURE. INDIAN SUMMER LANDSCAPE, SUNSET, AND TWILIGHT. Indian Summer comes to the Rocky Mountain states with its most beautiful of sunsets, followed by wonderful twilights. These last come far into October. With the approach of Indian Summer, nature begins her preparation for the harvest the fruit of the flower and the grain of the seed. Nature's coloring deepens as the days pass, and with a show of modesty, she envelopes her flamboyant tints, with a lovely haze, which she drapes about her like a veil of blue gauze. The effect is to mellow and blend together extravagant and perhaps inharmonious colors. It is at evening and at early morning that the autumn haze is most effective. September Walk. When you take your walk to study Indian Summer effects, arrange to come home by twilight. If it should be you go to the canyon or on the hills, you will get the full benefit of the fall sunset. Select the spot to visit, carefully. Take one viewpoint, and! ; 
 parison of foliage through the months of September, October, November and December. Study the change in foliage in (a) mass of color, (b) character of foliage, (c) change in line, (d) change in feeling. Observation. My friend's observation is keen in some directions. She sees every detail of each lady's dress at the stake conference. She could even include an inventory of the color, shape, and price (if they were purchased in her town) of shoes, gloves, hat, and hose. And yet my friend's observation is very limited in a vital way. I know she would pass unnoticed the first wild geranium that blooms against the old picket fence. My little daughter has mounted in a herbarium twenty-seven varieties of neighborhood weeds, which she can name with ease (common name). My friend knows only the common name of three of these specimens, the remaining twenty-four being entire strangers to her, though she has passed and repassed them every day for twenty-five years. Eyes for What? Did God give eyes merely to keep us from stumbling over impediments in the road, or did he expect us to take notice of things about us? I am thankful I had a mother who put her finger on the wild geranium, and named it; gave me a bunch of Shepherd's Purse with pink Sweet Williams, and said, "pretty." She showed me where the wild violets grew, and where to find the Indian Paint Brush, the Lark's spur, the Lady Slipper, and the Wild Sweet Peas. How I loved to hunt them Every year the family traveled to the "city" by team 160 miles, to visit grandparents. All the way our parents pointed out new, strange foliage, and the many tints and shades of color directed our sight to the different birds and wild fowl, and to their strange, though interesting, sounds. I picture to this day many of those beautiful scenes, creeks, camping places, patches of pine, and scrub cedar, stretches of wild rose hedges on river banks, flocks of migrating wild fowl, flying and at rest. At night we slept between great thick quilts with wool batting. We knew the meaning of constellation, and watched the stars and planets come out at night. We knew the coyote's call, the mud hen's rasping note. A new, strange bird call brought us all up with sharpened ears. Thank God for mothers that see! Pray that the unseeing may learn to love real beauty, and enjoy life's gladsome experiences. I pray that the art supervisors may be well chosen. There is always one woman in the town who knows all about growing things, and can tell us much, if she can be aroused to lend assistance. She will not think it a trouble to walk a block to obtain a!