The Prince of Ur By Homespun. The appointed hour of the sacrifice drew near. The sun had sunk to rest on the low horizon of the western Mesopotamian plains. The great heights of the Ziggarut were illumined by the last rays of the setting majesty whose worship was the central feature of lower Babylonia but the moon-god was the chief deity of Ur. The floods of the departing, sparkling light rippled along the rising terraces of the temple, enveloping all in its golden glory like the material envelope of the empire's mysterious soul. The black, lower terrace of the temple was the more somber for the gleam of the red and yellow, the pale pink and the lustrous blue of the upper terraces which but accentuated the shimmering bloom of the golden shrine while it lighted the silvered sheen of the last of the seven colossal terraces on which sat the golden shrine with its mystic altar without, and its mysterious altar within. A tremendous clamor of human voices mingled with the clash of musical instruments drums and tambourines, the loud and swelling trumpet, with horns, softened by the sweeter lure of fluted strings on lyres, guitars, zithers, pipes and cymbals, rising from the bosom of the city, as well as from the choristers of the Ziggarut which gave the signal for the evening's procession and ceremonies. All who were to take part in the procession hastened to array themselves and to be ranged along the approach to the Ziggarut where Nimrod was to emerge on his way to the inner sanctuary of the temple. Under the main portico of the walls, stood a magnificent palanquin, or chair of state, upon supports of ivory, carved with symbolic characters. This car contained a throne of gold, the base of which represented in gilded relief the fish-god Onnanes, the emblem for united courage and wisdom. On this throne, at its different corners, were the colored statues of Libnah, Korash, Elkanah and Merodach. On the top of the carved back rested a statuette of Ishtar, the goddess of the Assyrians, with her hands outstretched to protect her vassal and lord. Nimrod, his forehead crowned with a massive weight of gold and jewels, under which was his linen bonnet, came out of the lower sanctuary wearing his priestly linen robe under his richly fringed outer garments, and seated himself in this throne chair, or royal shrine, while twelve high priests of the first rank in Ur and its surrounding tributary cities, uplifted him on their shoulders. Mardan stood at the head of the litter, his gleaming crown and his priestly miter betraying the complete and public apostasy THE PRINCE OF UR. 445 which had this day separated him forever from the Petesi's household and his former religion. His crown was a jewelled snake, its gleaming scales and its red-blood eyes of ruby from the isles of Indus reared itself above his curled and perfumed locks in the light of the thousand torches with sinister effect. Other great personages crowded around for the honor of touching the royal throne, some seizing the alabaster steps and others the supports, and all moved off together, preceded by an immense crowd to the temple of Ishtar or the Moon goddess of Ur. Instantly a blare of vocal and instrumental music smote the night-silence, in which the rudimentary flutes and trumpets, the drums and brasses, gave forth thrilling sounds from weedy pipes or sounding brass. The members of the king's court, the Rabmags, the priests, the officers and their functionaries of his great establishment followed immediately after their master. The royal palanquin was surrounded as well by fan bearers, by the children of the sacerdotal caste carrying the scepter, the arms and the other insignia of the monarch before whom the first princess of the land and the son of the high priest of Ur burned incense continually. The newly created goddess of Ishtar the royal spouse selected by Nimrod, followed after the haughty and vain apostate daughter of the house of Terah — Iscah was robed in like fashion as her royal master yet her own rich robes were made of almost transparent tissues, the weaving of which the Indus alone possessed the secret; and like him she displayed many jewelled ornaments on her neck, her arms and her ankles her wealth of black, yet lusterless tresses clung about her, veiling the fabulous pearls and corals of the Erythrean seas and the emeralds of Troglodytes she followed her lord in an elegant palanquin, the elastic hammock of which, constructed of fine flax and gold, seemed suspended from stalks of rose-colored and violet flowers. Above her crowned head was a broad canopy woven with the rainbow-hued spoils of the most brilliant birds of the tropics, which threw out coruscating, ever-changing tints and shades. Behind this queenly cortege came in two parallel lines, the various petesi and officials of visiting cities and tribes. The lesser dignitaries of the court and priesthood followed after. Detachments of soldiers, regularly drawn up in line by platoons under their respective officers and standards, terminated the procession which even the long and beautiful tiled walks of the inner courts of the Ziggarut could not contain. As the procession reached the lower steps of the temple proper, the seven terraces of the Ziggarut resounded with solemn and mysterious religious music and incantations, the military music ceased and the royal pageant halted, and all waited till Nimrod had seated himself upon his throne, which was on the lower terrace. 
 The brazen gates, opening upon the Ziggarut proper, and guarded by the huge winged lions of the Assyrian royalty, gave open passage to a long procession of priestly choirs advancing with sacred hymnals to greet their god-king. These were the local ecclesiastics of the great city of Ur. They brought many visiting members of their cult in their ranks, and each gave forth his own benediction of his local gods upon the great god Merodach-Nimrod. Many of these visiting priests had brought with them their gods, mysteriously covered or enshrined in arks, which they carried on their shoulders, dividing themselves into groups of twelve, twenty-four or seventy priests, according to the dignity and importance of the god which they carried. The thick tissues of silver and gold effectually hid their idols from the curious or profane gaze of the onlooker. These gods were the rude symbols which an apostate priesthood after the order of Cush had engrafted upon the pure tradition bequeathed to them by their great forefather Noah. As each Rabmag and each petesi halted before the royal throne, the priest in charge led the hymnal of praise to Nimrod, attributing to him the different virtues which their local god was made to symbolize. One praised his justice, another his magnanimity, others his hatred of falsehood, and his love of good. These sang laudations for his wisdom and his prudence, and those his strength and courage in overcoming his enemies. Descending from his royal dais, Nimrod proceeded on foot up the long and elevated platform which led to the foot of the stairs leading up to the second terrace of the Ziggarut. Up and up the procession mounted, the choirs and bands mingling their strains in rising harmonies, which pealed forth on the night silence with weird and thrilling effect. Thousands of glowing oil lamps on all the terraces were ablaze with artificial illumination. Up and up climbed the royal procession, and finally, the king had reached the upper shrine, where his own distorted and symbolic image stood in the Holy of Holies. In front of the great golden-domed shrine stood a golden table with the shew-bread upon it. Below was a parakku or mercy-seat of gold and filigree workmanship. In front of the shrine was an altar of gold, and another altar stood in the outer court. Here also was the great basin or font of bronze, for purifying and baptismal purposes. This was called "The Deep," and it stood on twelve oxen also made of bronze. To the left was the sacrificial altar, made in the shape of an iron bedstead copied from the Egyptian deities for the offering of human sacrifice. This altar was to be consecrated this night just as the moon-goddess Ishtar showed her effulgent face above the eastern horizon. On the arrival of the king at the upper shrine, the high priest THE PRINCE OF UR. 447 officiating, caused the pontiffs under him to intone the chant consecrated to the divine moonlight about to reveal itself to mortals on this auspicious night. Standing erect at the altar, he received the king, who, ascending to a place beside him, aided him in preparing the ropes to fasten the sacrificial victim later upon the altar. Nimrod himself poured out upon the altar the libations of wine and oil, and burned the prescribed incense amid a shower of flowers, and then prostrated his huge bulk, along the richly tiled floor in front of the golden altar, whereon was now burning the royal incense. He pronounced these words "I come to my father the Nameless One, at the end of the procession of gods, which he forever admits to his presence." During this ceremony, the priests and their arks and idols were wheeling solemnly around the outer courts of the shrine, and they finally entered and mingled their homage with the kingly votary who had laid his all on the altar, becoming by that act, the very god of heaven himself. As each passed the now seated form of their great god-king, Nimrod, they expressed wishes for the welfare of the King of Earth. The weird and blood-curdling litany which followed in a tongue strange to Iscah's ears, chilled her to the marrow. She had seen the beauty and the majesty and the brute-force of Nimrod. She was soon to behold the inferno which was to follow on the heels of this seemingly innocent and religious tribute and service. Each petesi and priest as he bowed before the golden altar whereon sat Nimrod himself, said "I come to render homage to the sovereign of the gods, Nimrod-Merodach, the governing and controlling head of the lands of Assyria and Babylonia, in order that he may grant long years to his son the petesi of Arad — his son who loves Merodach." Another said "We approach thee, to serve thy majesty, oh sovereign lord, Merodach-Nimrod. Grant a pure and established life to thy son Rab-saki." Iscah was wrought up by the exaltation of all this pomp and splendor, and at the beckoning nod of her master, she too came forward and cried: "And I, the royal spouse, the all-powerful mistress of the world, I bring my homage also, to Nimrod-Merodach, king of gods and men. My heart rejoices in thy loving kindness; I leap with delight under the weight of thy favors. Oh thou, who dost establish the seat of thy power in the dwelling of men, thou Merodach —the lord of the world, accord to me a firmly established and pure life. May your years be counted by your periods of pageantries." Then with the unseeing gaze of the seer of visions, Iscah lifted up her pale and now agonized face, and with the deep but 
 shrill voice of the visionary she trumpeted forth as if moved by a power wholly without herself: "My well-beloved sovereign! Receive from Ishtar the power and the long days to pass upon the throne of Assyria. Thou shalt joyously control the world. Elkanah hath written down beside thy name all the royal attributes of the celestial One. The South and the North, the East and the West, shall be brought under thy yoke. All the good gates shall be opened to thee. I give the races of the earth to thee to trample beneath thy sandals. The force of thy arm shall triumph in all parts of the world, and the terror of thy name shall stamp itself deeply on the heaps of the barbarians. I give to thee, O my lord, the scythe of battle to restrain the foreign nations and to sever the bonds of the rebellious. Take the whip and the scepter to rule the land of Assyria. The Lady of the Celestial palace has prepared for thee the diadem of the sun. May this crown remain upon thy head where I place it forever." At these words, the excited girl seized the crown which lay on the altar where Nimrod had placed it to receive the anointing from the priest, and the priest stretched his pontifical staff to the four corners of the earth as if to emphasize the words of the new prophetess of Ishtar. The chanting of the priests was resumed, the incense was renewed in its vases, the marching priests took up the sacred strains, and Nimrod was ready to dedicate his newly prepared altar. Appeased, but not satisfied by all the lavish adulation he had received, he now turned to watch for the coming of Abram who was to perform the last sacred rites of dedication of the sacred altar by first plucking out the hearts of the three unhappy daughters of Azzi-jaami, and then their bodies were to be burnt in the sacred fires now blazing with brilliant fury upon the outer bronze altars. Meanwhile, the terraces and walls of the huge Ziggarut were ablaze with the millions of oil lamps and with the light of torches carried by the nude torch-bearers whose oily skins glistened in the flickerings of the light, while preparing for the rising of the full moon over the eastern corner of the sanctuary. The gardens below were filling rapidly with crowds of worshipers the men and the women of Ur, preparing themselves in all gravity for the terrible saturnalia which ever followed on the yearly sacrifice of human flesh. The white mousseline robes of the aristocracy were very thin and floated like cloudlets round their quivering bodies as they swung their arms in the rhythm of the music or danced in solemn invocation to the god Elkanah. The gleaming, nude limbs of the brown and glossy black soldiers and priests shone dully between the fluttering and scanty white raiment of the crowds of patrician women, the brilliant colored robes of the THE PRINCE OF UR. 449 neophytes, fringed and embroidered, dazzling the eye with its riot of coloring. On the lower terrace, the mass of writhing, singing and shouting people proved by their revolting coarseness of gesture and the husky tones of their voices that they were the scum and sputa of the city's populace. Scarce waiting for the darkness of midnight, much less for the rising of the moon-god, these bestial worshipers of the goddess Ishtar had waited for hours and were already drunk with the wrath and fornication of the coming idol-worship. On the terrace, the circling forms of dancing warriors and priests were now and then separated and joined again as delicate-limbed women who broke into their ranks whirled in and out of the service ritual. There was small suggestion on the upper terraces of the coarse and common ribaldry which marked the orgies of the masses below but in the dusky, gleaming eyes of the warrior devotees, and the coquettish glancing of the patrician women and the flitting here and there of lovely children who carried small incense-lamps, or brought messages from the upper terrace to the nobles below, there was an air of wild, suppressed excitement. Here, too, the priests moved about, stimulating the coming saturnalia of worship by cunningly worded songs, or by suggestions to an occasional laggard youth or maiden who betrayed the untaught fear and horror of the country-bred. On the upper terrace, hundreds of feet above them all, the high priests of Ur were busily engaged preparing the human sacrifice. The great iron framework, made like an Assyrian bedstead, stood in front of the golden couch and table in the holy place. On the further side of the shrine was the beautifully wrought golden lamps. Just outside the gleams of the altar furnace shone redly. The cruel pronged frame stood black and grim groaning for its prey before the porch of the sanctuary. Within the holy place of the sanctuary, the priests had renewed the lights of the mammoth, gleaming, golden candelabra, with its hundred small receptacles for oil and wick. The light glistened on the ruddy golden form of the gold Elkanah, so called by the Shemites — Izdubar by the Assyrians and brought into hideous relief all the brutal lines of strength and sensual power which showed tragically through the crown of many sparkling jewels bent low upon his fiercely chiseled eyebrows, and glistening, jeweled eyes, while the tight curled beard and hair, the lion in one hand, the scimitar in the other hand, proclaimed the favorite characteristics of Nimrod. The golden altar upon which was placed the blood of the victims— both human and animal now was wreathed in flowers, and the constant burning of incense filled the temple courts. The huge forms of the priests moved softly about in the 
 sacred enclosure, some were casting omens or singing psalms, some muttering incantations, some of them swinging censors, some preparing the sacred vessels, and some were polishing long, gleaming knives whose sinister sparkles caught the reflection of the lights within the Shrine. There was a silence and an awed hush over the small enclosure of the Shrine which comported well with the awful character of the events about to take place within that temple of idol worship. Three dark female forms were stretched upon three stone altars outside the Shrine, tied with thongs, their mouths stopped with cotton saturated with oil. A little child sat under the shadow of the altar innocently playing with a basket of dates. Suddenly there was a blast of trumpets, prolonged again and again, and instantly every form on every terrace was prostrated to the ground. The last echoes of the trumpets had scarcely ceased when a thousand female voices began the hymnal to the moon-goddess Ishtar and below their piercing, vibrant tones the richer voices of the men-singers joined their rhythmical chanting to the god Elkanah, or the sun-god of the Assyrians. The still and solemn gloom of the inner shrine was broken now by a faint light stealing up over the low horizon of the flat valley of the Euphrates, and the trumpets again shrilled out their welcome, drowning momentarily the harmonies of the singing voices. Up the lower flight of stairs which lead up to the great Ziggarut, started the trumpeteers, followed by the nearly nude women choristers, their melodious voices winding in and out of the harmonies with such weird effect that even the priests on the upper platform were thrilled with their vibrations. The bass notes of their brother-singers who followed them up the long and tedious climb, sank and rose with even harmonies that gave the words they were chanting some deeper meaning than was customary, even to this powerful and wealthy temple ritual: "Lord, prince of gods of heaven and earth, whose mandate is exalted. Father, God enlightening earth. Lord, good god, of gods the prince. God of the month. Lord of the alabaster houses, of gods the prince. Lord of crowns. Awarder of kingdoms, of gods the prince. Father, by lowering the proud himself enlarging, of gods the prince. Timely crescent, mightily horned, doom-dealer, splendid with orb fulfilled! Self produced, from his home forth issuing, pouring evermore plenteous streams. High exalting, all-producing, life unfolding from above. Father, he who life reneweth in thy circuit through all lands. God's sire, and men's, of childhood guide, even Ishtar's self thou didst create. Primeval seer, rewarder fixing the doom of days remote. Unshaken chief, whose heart benign is never mindful of thy wrongs. Whose blessings cease not, ever flowing, leading on his fellow gods. Who from depth to height bright piercing openeth the gate of heaven. Father mine, of life the giver, cherishing all, beholding all." And the people answered in one mellow response "Thou! Thy will who knoweth? Who with aught can it compare? Lord, in heaven and earth thy lordship of the gods none equals thee." As the mighty procession gained the sixth platform, the assembled ten thousand thousand of kneeling votaries sang, wept, groaned or bellowed in their desire to augment the peans of praise thus uttered to their god. The moon was near the rim of the eastern horizon, and as the great procession gained the upper platform, the rounded crescent showed her silver tip. As this gracious sight burst upon the prostrate multitude a very paroxysm smote the whole assemblage. Out from the temple strode the huge form of the king, his sacerdotal outer garments glistening with rich jewels. The high-priest seized the little unconscious black child, whose one piercing cry was permitted to cleave the throbbing midnight air, ere he was strangled and flung upon the huge furnace altar to be offered as the first propitiate of the moon-god in this holy rite. The trumpet blasts from the ascending columns of musicians drowned the cry of the infant. The towering form of the king, in his gleaming robes and jewelled crown approached to the edge of the upper platform, to meet the ascending procession of priests, and with one arm upraised he spread abroad his opened fingers to give the death sign to some one not yet in the upper altar-place. His powerful voice rose bellowing like some great forest animal's, as he chanted these magic Chaldean words: "The offspring who raises the head among mankind — his offspring for his life he shall give; the head of the offspring for the head of the man he shall give; the neck of the offspring for the neck of the man he shall give the breast of the offspring for the breast of the man he shall give." A silence like the cloud of death fell everywhere. The gods were not fully appeased. The sum of human life now offered was incomplete. Other victims awaited the knife and the fire. Men looked furtively at each other. Women shrunk with the nameless fear which clutches at the heart when the shadowy wings of death brood over earth. "The head of the offspring for the head of the man he shall give." The powerful chanting voices of all the musicians took up the strain and as they clustered at the foot of the upper stairway, they sang this challenge to life and death with changing tones and 
 rising harmonies. The cymbals struck their pleas but the trumpets were silent. Their blast was sounded only at the completion of the sacrifice. "The breast of the offspring for the breast of the man he shall give." The moon-god was riding her silver chariot with rapid upward motion. The stars shone blue and cold in the refulgence cast by their sister luminary. Ishtar-Korash rode between the crescents of her bows and gloated over the sweet odors of human sacrifice rising from the altars of her temple. "The neck of the offspring for the neck of the man he shall give." Down in the lower platform some small groups of shepherd-clad soldiers crawled and wormed their way along out to the very extremity of the eastern parapet. Above on the second platform, the soldier Lot stood very near the burning torches, their light paling before the rising gleams of the moon-god. Several of his warrior friends seeing him, themselves sons of aristocratic fathers and noble mothers, came to him casting his sulkiness in his teeth. He had no word of laughter, no sugar-sweet flattery of girls who passed him throwing out to him an arm of soft invitation, or perchance trying to brush his lips in passing. He stood, gloomy and remote. But he saw from the tail of his eye more than one of his comrades and relatives go slipping by to some common rendezvous at the back end of this richly decorated platform. "What secret gallantry art up to, Lot, that thy brows are drawn in such dismay because the little temple maidens do fetch you sweet allurements for your midnight choice?" "I have no girl to watch nor wait for, not in this crowd of flippant, painted wantons," growled Lot, who liked not that his presence there should even momentarily give color to the idea that he might be following in the licentious steps of the prince Mardan. "He has his golden-haired treasure hidden in his father's own palace, I'll be bound," cried a matron, whose pouting lips of coral and full proportions 'neath her outer slimpsey mousselin coverings gave evidence of a too-bountiful bestowal of nature's charms. "He hath no eyes for delicate loveliness of youth nor even yet for those fuller flavored charms which invite to better things." The sally brought a storm of laughter on poor Lot, and he moved slightly away, although he did not forsake his place by the torches. The loud and reverberating tones of the king smote them as he took up the last stanza of the death decree. "When the sun-god, Elkanah is fine, prosperity comes. "And on the high places the son is burnt." The quivering voices of the musicians took up the chant, and the faces of even the jesters paled for a moment but they had THE PRINCE OF UR. 453 steeled themselves long ago to the necessities of their awful worship. What the gods demanded must be given. They were worshipers, not priests. They left all religious reasoning and rituals to those who understood them. "I have given mine own first-born," said the matron who had spoken before to the little group gathered about her her lips quivered, but she added with a steely glitter in her eyes, "It was his father's life or his. He has paid the price." "And his father?" cried a youth with a jewelled cane and with curled and perfumed hair falling on his gold-embroidered tunic "what of his father?" The mocking gibe may have stung, but the woman showed nothing of it as she caught the young man by his curls and pulled him down to her face to punish him with kisses. Lot was filled with supreme disgust. But he stirred not, as the priests shouted, the cymbals and the harps poured forth their tinkling melodies and the singers chanted the refrain over and over: "On the high places the son is burnt." Just at the foot of the lower stairs a quick, short trumpet blast of peculiar significance announced to those above that the local officiating high priest was approaching. Men hurried to the edges of the platforms and peered over in the moonlight to see who it was that was thus being so magnificently announced. The innocent victim already slain had certainly seemed enough. But to that hardened part of humanity massed upon the lower terrace, there was something in the very smell of blood that sends a shuddering excitement into the vitals of all who partake of that terrible phenomena. The gathered masses on these terraces were not unused to this thrilling lure. They were ready to cry, with their animal brother of the jungle, "More blood, more blood." The marching feet of soldiers fell upon the stairs with solemn beat. The multitude could not discern who it was that walked between with the white mantle of the high priesthood, folded across his breast. He was tall, this new great dignitary, and his form towered above even the mighty forms of the northern Assyrian and Accadian soldiers. "Hey," cried a Nubian wench who carried her child across her hip, "it looks like Prince Abram." "Hush thou slutish blabber," cried a magnificent black votary, herself a Nubian but of coarse and heroic physique. "Close thy loosened lips over that shovel tongue of yours and get thee to thy knees. The gods demand their price." (to be continued.) Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde. UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AS AN INFORMATION BUREAU. We wish our readers everywhere could realize the necessity for writing to our delegates in Congress for some of the many helpful bulletins issued by the United States Department of Agriculture. Any who desire to secure the pamphlets referred to below may do so by writing to Senator Reed Smoot, Senator George Sutherland or to Congressman Joseph Howell, address, Washington, D. C. Fish as Food, No. 85. — In this little pamphlet we have instructions as to the value and use of fish, the nutritive value of fish, composition of fish, cost of protein and energy in fish and other foods, digestibility, how to prepare fish for the table, and the possible danger from eating fish. Economical Use of Meat in the Home, No. 391, tells us of the cuts and cost of meat, methods of preparing it, reducing the expenses, utilizing the cheaper cuts of meat in palatable dishes, casserole cookery, chopped meat in various ways, developing and improving the flavor of meat, Indian curry, sauces and mock venison. Use of Milk as Food, No. 363, has the sources and kinds of milk composition and characteristics of milk milk as the possible carrier of disease, condensed milk and milk powder, care of milk in the home, milk for infants, special infant foods and milk products. Cheese and its Economical Uses in the Diet, No. 487, has, in addition to the description of various cheeses, discussions concerning its nutritive value and digestibility with about 50 recipes for the use of cheese, combined with vegetables, macaroni and breads. Mutton and its Value in the Diet, No. 526, contains discussion of digestibility, relative economy, how and when to use, with about 50 practical and toothsome recipes for its use in every possible way. Corn Meal as a Food and Ways of Using It, No. 565, gives the origin and composition of corn, kinds of corn, meal and its uses, relation of corn meal to the balanced ration, the cooking of corn meal and its combination with other foods, with 60 recipes for its preparation. The Manufacturing Uses of Unfermented Grape Juice, No. 644, is an excellent bulletin, giving the composition of grape THE PRINCE OF UR. 455 juice, cause and prevention of fermentation, flavor and quality of grape juice, how to manufacture it at home, and valuable appliances for home use. Added to this is a long article, illustrated, on the commercial methods of making the juice with some recipes for its use both for the sick and the well. Honey and its Uses in the Home, No. 653, after the introduction, tells us about the food value of honey, its flavor and wholesomeness, economy of honey as food, and uses of honey in cookery, with over 50 recipes for honey in breads, cakes, cookies, deserts, preserved fruits, ices and candy. The Food for Young Children, No. 717, gives illustrations and instructions with menus and recipes for the feeding of young children. All of these recipes are not only scientifically tested for quality and food values for the child, they are also most appetizing and attractive in their composition. The following questions illustrate the exactitude with which this pamphlet has been prepared to meet the needs of the child A REVIEW. In the foregoing pages some general principles which should govern the young child's diet have been stated, and facts given about foods the child should have and about cooking them. At the close of the day the mother might ask herself questions like the following, to make sure that she has taken into account the things to which her attention has been directed Did each child take about a quart of milk in one form or another? Have I taken pains to see that the milk that comes to my house has been handled in a clean way? If I was obliged to serve skim milk for the sake of cleanliness or economy, did I supply a little extra fat in some other way? Were the fats which I gave the child of the wholesome kind found in milk, cream, butter, and salad oils, or of the unwholesome kind found in doughnuts and other fried foods? Did I make good use of all skim milk by using it in the preparation of cereal mushes, puddings, or otherwise? Were all cereal foods thoroughly cooked? Was the bread soggy? If so, was it because the loaves were too large, or because they were not cooked long enough? Did I take pains to get a variety of foods from the cereal group by serving a cereal mush once during the day? Did I keep in mind that while cereals are good food in themselves, they do not take the place of meat, milk, eggs, fruit, and vegetables? Did I keep in mind that children who do not have plenty 
 of fruit and vegetables need whole-wheat bread and whole grains served in other ways? Did each child have an egg or an equivalent amount of meat, fish, or poultry? Did any child have more than this of flesh, foods or eggs? If so, might the money not have been better spent for fruits or vegetables? If I was unable to get milk, meat, fish, poultry, or eggs, did I serve dried beans, or other legumes thoroughly cooked and carefully seasoned? Were vegetables and fruits both on the child's bill of fare once during the day? If not, was it because we have not taken pains to raise them in our home garden? Did either the fruit or the vegetables disagree with the child? If so, ought I to have cooked it more thoroughly, chopped it more finely, or have removed the skins or seeds? Was the child given sweets between meals, or anything that tempted him to eat when he was not hungry? Was he allowed to eat sweets when he should have been drinking milk or eating cereals, meat, eggs, fruit, or vegetables? Were the sweets given to the child simple, i. e., unmixed with much fat or with hard substances difficult to chew, and not highly flavored? Was the child made to eat slowly and chew his food properly? A young child may be considered well fed if he has plenty of milk, bread, and other cereal foods and egg once a day or its equivalent in flesh foods a small portion each of carefully prepared fruits and vegetables, with a small amount of sweet food, after his appetite for other foods is satisfied. If there is too much or too little of any of these, his diet is one sided. Senator Reed Smoot's splendid speech in the Senate on the Science of Home Economics is, without exception, the clearest and most complete assembling of facts and statement of needs and conditions in the homes of the people of the United States ever before presented. Our Relief Society members can obtain free copies of this booklet by addressing Senator Reed Smoot, Senate Chamber, Washington, D. C. We are proud to have a senator who so ably and fully represents the interests of the women of this State, and of all the United States, in the suffrage and in the home interests which are so dear to us all. Crochet Nut Basket. Isabel W. Sears. Stitches used — Chain (ch.) Catch cotton with hook, making loop, draw cotton through this loop which makes the first stitch. Repeat draw through as many loops as wanted, each loop is termed a chain stitch. Slip stitch (sl. st.) Put hook through the work, thread over hook, draw it through the stitch on hook. Single crochet (s. c.) Having stitch on hook, put hook through work and draw thread through, making two stitches on hook, thread over hook and draw through both stitches. Treble crochet (t. c.) Having stitch on hook, put thread over hook put hook through work and draw thread through, making three stitches on hook, put thread over hook, draw through two stitches put thread over hook and draw off the two remaining stitches. Picot (p.) A picot is made by making four or five chain, going back and drawing thread through first chain with sl. st.