EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 
 WILL CONQUERING. How shall I conquer this human will, that best The Human of servants and cruelest of masters? How shall Will. I make my will obedient to the divine will? How rescue my will from the evil will, and how shall I will for myself peace, power, plenty and health? That divine power within us to do or to leave undone which we call will, is the chief cause of all our suffering, as of all our joy. We can will to be at peace in the most agonizing circumstances, as we can also will to be unutterably wretched, in the most tranquil and peaceful environment. The potentiality of the human will is least understood by the mental scientists who assume to discuss its powers and to define its possibilities; this, too, because the philosophers take no account of the action and reaction of the Divine will, and the demoniac will, upon the human will. The human will has not only to battle with itself The Contest in choosing the good or the evil, there is also a of Wills. constant friction and warfare with other human wills. The unseen wills, working in the dark, often thwart our most cherished desires, our best-laid plans. The conflict of wills is the most ennobling, as it is the most degrading force in the universe, and constitutes our most divine 
 and most wretched experiences. I want a position; my neighbor is working and willing to get the place. I want to take a ride, my husband wants me to remain at home. I want quiet, my little son enjoys banging his hammer on a tin plate. Whose will shall conquer? I am ill ? I want to be well. Perchance, the Divine will sees it necessary, or the demoniac will What Shall finds it possible, to continue my suffering. I am I Do? poor ? I desire means, a house, an income, money. It may well be that a cloud of human wills are reaching out for the very house, the very dollar I am fiercely struggling for. Who shall finally conquer? Don't mistake obstinacy for will, nor laziness for Obstinacy quiescence. The dominant will is often the most and Will. intelligent will. Obstinacy and ignorance are twins, and lazy wills are ever willing to succumb to other wills. The strong will, controlled by the intelligent mind, is a great force for good or evil in any community. The selfish will hides under puzzling exteriors ? tender, womanly, tears, and tantrums are often the expression of cruelly selfish wills. Desire is not always will "hell is paved with good intentions," said the old preacher. How easily I bend this will of mine in the wrong The Bent direction and how quickly it sets into hard lines Twig. of habit that destroy my power to progress. "I never sleep before midnight ? I wake up every night at three, and lie till morning" three repetitions of this assertion, and the habit is well on to a fixed condition. "I can't eat prunes ? I am obliged to take pills every night ? I have a weak liver ? I always lose my temper when my husband takes coffee ? I can't live without my tea ? I cannot bear this loss or trouble ? I cannot bear it" and lo, the thing is so. I say it is so, and my obedient will hastens to make the assertion true. If I would only say inside myself ? "I can go to sleep at ten ? my liver will be healed by the power of faith I shall not get angry no matter what my husband does ? I will forget my loss, I will be at peace ? I will ? I will ? I will and lo the thing begins to be so. "As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he," says the Preacher. The chastened will, molded by an invincible The Human faith in God and His earth purposes, will lead the Will Purified human soul into final glory. We may not always will ourselves health, peace, wealth or happiness. If we could, life would offer us no discipline. Into our great human battlefield, march battalions of other wills, officered by both good and evil powers. We enter upon daily engagements, hourly conflicts. The bugle call of duty flings us into the fray, and we toss and struggle and fight? sometimes against windmills and sometimes with our own shadows. I will? to do good! I will to be obedient to my file leader. I will to obtain health and to maintain it. I am torn by ravening appetites, but I will to refrain. I am beset with revengeful thoughts, but I will to pray for those that despitefully use me. I am angry, but I will keep silence, speak softly. I am poor, but I will to feel rich, to cultivate opulent thoughts. I am sick, I will to be healed, to be sound in limb and body. Yet in all this I will? O Lord, I will? to submit my will to the will of God, while waiting for Him to speak. I will be at peace, I will still fight for the good, and still struggle for victory.