GUIDE LESSONS. 475 finer view of a sunset. Nor will she be too "old fogyish" to take a walk on the hills, and let what is there rest and revive her tired brain and hungry soul QUESTIONS. a. Describe a corn patch with the autumn haze and sunset effect. b. Describe a corn patch, with autumn twilight effect after the shadows are gone. c. Describe a river bank on a September morning. d. Describe a harvesting scene with some action, such as threshing or cutting. e. Compare the change in color with that of January, April, and June. f. Which are the lightest notes in the Indian Summer landscape under sunlight? Which the darkest note? g. Describe the Indian Summer. h. What things have already been harvested? i. Make a sketch of a load of hay, haymen, and haycocks. Place the shadows as you see them. j. Make a sketch of cattle in meadows. ARCHITECTURE. Devotees and their Shrines, Page 134-136. EARLY REPUBLICAN PERIOD, AND THE REVIVALS. a. Describe the Early Republican Period, and describe the Revivals. b. At the close of the American Revolution, what called forth a great deal of new architecture? c. What effect had this on monumental architecture? d. What happened to the new Wren-Gibbs style during the Early Republican period? e. Describe the New York City Hall. f. Describe the Library University of Virginia. g. What effect had the Europeans' revivals upon American architecture of this time? h. What phase of architecture was most affected by the Revivals? i. Describe the White House. What three architectural influences does it show? Answer: It recalls Renaissance and Roman feeling, and the large English country house of the time. j. Describe the Sub-Treasury Building, New York City. 
 LESSON VI. Home Economics. Fourth Week in September. HOUSEHOLD WASTES. Outline. I. Introduction and Definition of Waste. II. Money Wastes. a. Extravagant buying. 1. Food. 2. Clothing. 3. Furniture. b. Extravagant using. 1. Food. 2. Clothing. 3. Furniture. III. Time Wastes. Standardizing labor. a. System in housework. b. c. Cooking and preparing of meals. IV. Energy Wastes. a. Motion Study. b. Labor Saving devices. V. False Economy. a. Bargain counters b. Using left overs. "Waste Not Want Not." 1. Waste is usually spoken of as that material of little or no intrinsic value, that of which we can make no further use. But there is another waste that means a great loss to the average American home and it is to this we wish to call your attention. 2. Money Wastes. When one thinks of waste one naturally thinks of "money waste" and this may be divided into two heads (a) extravagant buying and (b) extravagant using. (a) Extravagant Buying. 1. All the work of the home centers around the three meals each day. In the budget making we turn first to the food, here is the biggest item of expense. The "pay as you go" plan is the best; saves the most money, for this reason, where one goes to market to purchase food, by carefully planning one will know about what ought to be spent and accordingly will carry enough money to cover the expense. When the butcher is greeted, for instance, one has in mind a thirty cent steak, it is purchased and paid for. While nine times out of ten, if things are charged the butcher, would show an expensive cut of meat and the chances GUIDE LESSONS. 477 are next month's bill would see a dollar roast where one had only intended to spend thirty cents. There are times, however, where a roast of meat is real economy. Groceries bought in quantities is always a saving of money, time and energy. Such staples as flour, sugar, rice, beans, canned goods, starch, salt, etc., should always be in the house. By watching the market the housewife knows best when to buy these articles. The word of wisdom tells us to eat food in the season thereof. It is surely a waste of money to buy food, fruit and vegetables, for instance, out of season. One pays too big a price for the nourishment obtained. How often we find housewives buying more than is necessary; in small families, is this especially true. One dislikes to ask for fifteen cents worth of veal cutlets, for instance, because it is so little and yet, in Europe, one can buy ever so little without a feeling of stinginess. Why should an American be so far behind in the line of economy? 2. It is extravagant to buy clothing of extreme color or style. Fashion changes so rapidly that one will soon find one's closet filling up with useless clothing. It is more economical to buy staple materials and patterns. Such things as bed linen and table linen can better be bought from reliable dealers at sales, but do not make the mistake of over-stocking because things are cheap know why and for what you are buying before going to a store. The best materials, even though one has to pay more money, are more economical in the end. They wear longer, look better, and can be made better use of after the wearer is through with them. 3. As to the buying of furniture, money is wasted by buying an inferior article, with a feeling that it is cheap and need not have special care, consequently it does not last long and soon has to be replaced. It is better to buy a little at a time and buy good furniture. (b) Extravagant Using. Many times we find an extravagant use of food materials when there is a generous supply on hand. There is always a tendency to be wasteful where such is the case and the housewife must be ever watchful or the money saved by purchasing in quantities can easily be wasted and more too. There is also a tendency to serve more and eat more when the supply is great. Frequently we buy expensive clothes and wear them at unsuitable times, then when we are through with them, they are thrown away instead of being renovated and made over for some one else. It is a waste of clothing to have more than necessary. The biggest waste comes in wearing expensive, fine clothing inappropriately, for instance, silk hose for every day wear, expensive shoes to scrub and mop in, worn out party dresses in the kitchen, etc. Most of the waste in our furniture comes in having more than necessary and in not taking care of what we do have. Teach the children to respect furniture by keeping their feet off it. It is ridiculous to wear buttons and combs that mar the backs of expensive chairs, etc. 3. Time Wastes. There is no question but the American housewife is facing a great revolution in the manner of her housekeeping. The efficiency idea which has already revolutionized and standardized so many industrial plants has now reached the home, and we must make way for it. Civilization has become too complex, too full of new demands and difficulties. We must get rid of more of the industries of the home in order to meet this new demand. The modern home needs much less skill and vastly more mental and spiritual qualities. One writer has said, "and though each of the industries of the home has to be packed out of the house separately there is no manner of use in trying to derail the train that is thundering to the eager cooperation, for they have heard the call of economy and they will go." There is one thing certain, in order that time may be saved a good system must be back of our labors. To many, the saving of money is the only important thing and almost no expenditure of labor and time is considered. How sadly true is this of many of our Latter-day Saint mothers; whereas, it is often the most foolish thing to do. It is said that Harrington Emerson, "the apostle of efficiency," has expounded twelve principles of efficiency and it would seem that most of them could successfully be used in the modern home as well as the factory. They are: 1. Ideal; 2. Common Sense; 3. Competent counsel; 4. Standardized operation; 5. Standardized conditions; 6. Standard practice; 7. Dispatching; 8. Scheduling; 9. Reliable, immediate and accurate methods; 10. Discipline; 11. Fair deal; 12. Efficiency reward. The better ideals a woman has the better homemaker she will be, and no woman can run her home, her business, successfully without knowing what she is doing and why she is doing it. The matter of having common sense will save a great many women time and energy. The kitchen is her workroom, her laboratory. A pot, a pan, is to be used. Why tuck it away in a cupboard where one must stoop down or use a stove hook to get it when wanted. Hang it where one can easily reach it. A few good utensils chosen well will be used frequently enough to keep them from getting dusty. 4. Energy Wastes. There is much written these days about motion study and standardizing practice, how can these be used 5 
 they are piled into a trunk to be used sometime. This is false economy. There are sales when one can buy to advantage, but to buy because an article is cheap will soon "divide a fool and his money." b. The truly economical housewife will plan in her cooking to have left overs, and to make use of these is an art that can only be learned by thought and practice. The cheaper cuts of meat are not always the most economical for one must consider the extra fuel necessary to cook them. They may be cooked in a fireless cooker or when a fire must be kept for other reasons before they are economical. It is false economy to buy a soup bone, for instance, and boil it five or six hours on a gas range when a round steak cut and soaked in cold water and then cooked fifteen or twenty minutes would give more nutritive value for less money. Space will not allow me to mention the many, many dollars that we are allowing heedlessly to slip through the kitchen sink. Think of the cream that is left on the milk pan as it comes to the dish pan. If a thin knife is run around the milk pan before the cream is removed much of the cream could be saved. Think of the carelessly baked bread that is thrown out. The nice gravy left to burn in the frying pan, this might all go into the soup kettle. Think of the many crusts and pieces of good bread that might be dried and made into crumbs to be used for croquets, escallops, etc., the soap that is wasted, and so on. From dietary studies carried on by the Department of Agriculture, at Washington, it has been estimated that waste in American families varies from almost nothing to one-fifth of the edible portion of food purchased due to careless buying and improper storage. A large part of household waste arises from moral cowardice; a fear of being stingy keeps people from saving. QUESTIONS. 1. Why is housework inefficient? 2. Do you consider it waste to feed left-overs from the table to the chickens and animals in the yard? 3. When can patching and darning be wasteful? 4. What labor-saving devices do you use that you know saves your time and energy? 5. How can you teach young people economy? 6. What is meant by motion study and standardized labor? 7. In your opinion is fancywork a waste of time? 8. What is false economy? ? Have you read Excursions North The Women Low Rates to of the Northern Utah and Idaho Points Bible? by TWICE EACH MONTH DURING Elder Willard Done THE SUMMER Ask for dates and If Not, rates Why Not? D. S. Spencer, Gen'l Passenger Agent, Oregon Short Line Railroad, [Union Pacific System] The book will help you in City Ticket Office, your Theology Lessons, it Hotel Utah, Salt Lake City. will give you a greater insight and love for the Bible characters, and will also make you glad that you are a woman Z. C. M. I. and a sister to these good and glorious women who lived and School Shoes loved and suffered even as we For Boys do today. Are made for service they will keep the boys' Buy one for yourself, feet warm and dry. your mother, daughter or friend. Z. C. M. I. PRICE 75 cts. ALLOVERS are the ideal For Sale by play garment DESERET NEWS for boys and girls. Cheap, BOOK STORE serviceable. EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 'Utah's Most Popular Music House" English and American SAVE HALF ARCHITECTURE When Buying Your Piano By GEO. M. ALLEN We always have on hand a representative is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, stock of instruments used as demonstrators, returned from rentals, etc., practically good as new, but DEVOTEES AND THEIR AT ABOUT ? ORIGINAL PRICES SHRINES. Send to this office or Mention this magazine and ask for official list. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH' PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months ? Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which includes nursing and invalid cooking $50.00. ? Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which includes invalid cooking $25.00. ? Course C At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. ? Course D A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts no extra charge for students taking other courses. ; Instructor, DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ?and sons?to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. If the "DAY" has been set Let me sell you the Ring Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only ? the Best McConAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City SPECIAL EXCURSION $85.00 to San Francisco Los Angeles and Return Sale Dates, July 24-31, inclusive Return Limit, 60 Days Stopovers allowed VISIT Lake Tahoe, San Francisco Big Trees, Santa Cruz, Del Monte, Monterey, Pacific Grove, Santa Barbara, Los Angeles California is the Playground of America A Beautiful Packet of Literature Mailed on Request For Detailed Information Call on C. L. McFAUL District Passenger Agent, Was. 6900 203 Walker Bank Bldg. SALT LAKE CITY SOUTHERN PACIFIC RELIEF SOCIETY Magazine SEPTEMBER, 1916. SPECIAL ARTICLES MOTHERS IN ISRAEL Mary Ann Stearns Pratt With Illustrations. SCHEMES AND SCHEDULES Ruth Moench Bell. BEING "GRAN." Alfred Lambourne. With Illustrations.