Form 1916.) Birth Control. Perhaps no better evidence of the value and importance of the articles given last month and this month on Birth Control, from the inspired pens of our Church Authorities, can be adduced than the animated and sometimes heated discussions which this subject has already aroused in this Society. It may be to the point to relate a story told at the home of the Editor by the famous lecturer and publicist, Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman. The lady described a serious experiment made by a young married couple who were enthusiastic eugenists, and who were ideal in lives and characters. They decided that from the very hour of conception, nay the preparatory hours before that momentous event, every possible care should be taken to insure a perfect human baby. Proper diet, full exercise, fresh air, beautiful scenes, happy thoughts and associations, pure emotions — these and these only were to surround the prospective mother. Nothing was allowed to ruffle her spirit or to depress her nerves. She and her young husband put into active service every known law physical, moral and mental to assist them in their glorious anticipated achievement. The medical world of Chicago was agog with expectation. At last the babe was born, and lived two days. The doctors at once performed an autopsy and found not one single thing right in the little body and not one organ had functioned normally. Every organ was abnormal. The lesson was obvious but was not made public. PRESIDENT HYRUM M. SMITH. In reply to your request that I "express my views" upon the subject of your letter of April 17, I submit the following statement My observations and reading confirms my belief that the question is not a new one. The "doctrine" of birth control or race suicide has been taught and practiced for generations, and is as firmly fixed in the minds of so-called "Christian" peoples as the many other immoral institutions, e. g., divorce, inebriety, suicide, etc. For years the birth-rate in France has been smaller than the death-rate, while in other Christian countries, including our own New England, the death-rate comes dangerously near offsetting the birth-rate. And the peril is no doubt increasing through the work of the promoting agencies you refer to. If, as you intimate, the influence of these agencies is operating among our people, and there is a calculated tendency on the part of the least proportion of the young married members of the Church to follow the lead of the world in such wicked ways and if older parents are teaching and encouraging their married children to neglect the primary and ultimate purpose of marriage by resorting to criminal practices in order to prevent birth altogether or limit the number of children born, then the Church is facing a real danger which must arouse the profoundest apprehension, and all her power should be brought to bear in an effort to overcome and counteract such tendency. As one of the watchmen on the towers of Zion, I raise my voice in warning to both old and young against every such teaching or practice. "Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees," and of the things, "after which the Gentiles seek." These are the evil tendencies and practices of the world, which, for many years, have caused the most serious concern among the wisest and most far-seeing men of Christian lands, making them fear for the very existence of the race. The Psalmist declared that, "Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord: Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them," and conversely, cursed and miserable is the man that, as the result of his own design, hath his quiver empty. He must some day awaken to a bright realization that of that which is the most precious possession of either earth or heaven he is destitute and forever powerless to obtain, and that where they are who have inherited Eternal Lives, he cannot come, worlds without end. The people or nation that follows the false teachers be they editors of papers, authors of books, magazine writers, "Eugenists," or what not, of either sex, who advocate, with or without law, the prevention or limitation of the birth of children, will enter upon the sure road to ruin and extinction and will deserve their disgraceful end. And to the passing of laws upon the question the first to be enacted should be one making the advocacy of birth prevention and restriction a crime, with a severe penalty for the advocate. Then pass other laws aiming to raise the environment and standard of all homes, community and industrial life, to the highest possible plane wherein all children might receive every advantage for the fullest development of body, mind and spirit, and let the number born be controlled only by the laws of nature, which were established by the Divine Creator for the purpose that man should multiply in the earth and the earth be replenished. BISHOP DAVID A. SMITH. It is with pleasure that I attempt to comply with your request for an expression as to my attitude towards the feeling that is apparently growing that it is a mistake to have large families. BIRTH CONTROL. 435 In considering this subject it seems to me that it will be necessary to look at it from two angles. First, from the point of view of the man and woman who are selfish and narrow-minded, and who only care for the gratifying of their own selfish purposes and who do not know or hope for a future existence or happiness. If this is the class that is called the rich and cultured, I would say that those advocating birth control are perhaps nearer right, for the sooner this class can be stamped out, the sooner will the purpose of the Lord be brought about. Considering the subject from the point of view of those who believe in God and in a future existence, those who are living not to carry out their own human, selfish desires, but are trying to serve their Creator and obey His laws, surely it can not be looked upon in the same light. For as the first grow more selfish and more covetous, which often causes the severing of the marriage bond or the entering into it for the mere sake of form, the latter class become more self-sacrificing, their hearts become more tender, and they possess a greater love and sympathy for the children of God. Their lives are not void with emptiness for they are living for others. Their lives are filled with joy and happiness, for they know that they are trying to fulfill the purpose of their creation. Their sorrows are not the sorrows filled with bitterness, but sorrows which tend to mellow them in the eyes of God. A number of years ago it was my privilege to be acquainted with two young men who were employed at the same place and who were married on the same day. The next day as they returned to work they received the congratulations of their associates and one expressed the hope that "their troubles would all be little ones." One young man thanked him the other said, "Not for me. We have agreed that no little ones will come to our home, until we have had some enjoyment out of life and have laid up something for the future." A number of years later, I met these young men. The greeting was, "How are you getting along, and how many babies have you?" One raised his head with a feeling of pride as he answered, "Six;" while the other, with tears in his eyes, said he would give all of his worldly possessions if his home could be blessed with babies. He said, "I am afraid we have gone too far, and can now look for nothing but doctors' bills." I bear testimony of God's mercy to me. I was married in my youth and started with nothing but enough furniture to comfortably fill two little rooms which were rented, and with an income of $30 a month. I may belong to the poor and ignorant class, but I am grateful to Him to whom we must all look for final judgment, for His mercies, for my father, his family, and for the wife and nine children the Lord has given me.