[Vol53 | March 1966 | Page 170 | Special Feature | The Importance of the Family Home Evening in a Latter-day Saint Home Elna | P. Haymond]
tie in with the outlined course to be given in the home. From these studies we are reminded of the place and position the father holds in his family. We are retold that in the Latter-day Saint home, the patriarchal order continues as it was ordained in the heavens. The father is the presiding authority in matters pertaining to the family organization, "The Priesthood-born home is the loftiest spiritual organism of which we know" (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 802). Having learned this. Great truth, it will be easier for the wife to give this recognition to the husband during the teaching of the Family Home Evening. Here the children will learn respect for the father, for the Priesthood, and will learn to honor both the father and the mother. Upon the father, as patriarch of the family, rests the responsibility for the training and conduct of members of the family. With this knowledge of the origin, purpose, and destiny of the home, with its attending blessings, all effort should be made to create the proper atmosphere and I conditions in the home prior to the appointed time for the family to meet. Friction, confusion, outside duties, or any other disturbing influence should - be screened out in order that the father may have the spirit of the Lord to accompany the opening prayer. Plans for the program and assignments are to be made in advance. This will give the children a sense of belonging and of sponsoring the program. Since the mother spends so many hours in the home with her children, she becomes the principal disciplinarian in early child life. Her discipline and influence, her example, determine in a great measure the ability of the children to live good, clean, moral lives, to take an active place in the Church, in the state, and in their own future homes. In order to fill this assignment, a special night is designated in each stake and ward so that outside influences and appointments will not interfere.

By divine authority, then, the evening may THE IMPORTANCE OF FAMILY HOME EVENING become a sacred time for the family. God will not hold guiltless parents who fail to do the most they have power to do to meet these responsibilities (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 808). The Lord has not turned the training of the family in spiritual and moral truths over to the school, nor wholly to the Church. These truths are basic and must be started at the cradle in the home. To take her place, as a "'helpmate" to her husband, a mother in Israel is given the choice, the - favored, the divine injunction to ~ train her children that she may -prepare them for exaltation. We have been given a golden ' opportunity, in the Family Home _Evening, to teach them that: All this shall come to those who, obedient to God's law, shall be united together in the House of the Lord by the authority of the Holy Priesthood of God. All this can come to them through no other cause (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 810). President Clark tells us that we must decide the place we shall hold in God's household, in God's family, in our Heavenly Father's eternal home, whether it shall be in the inner family circle or outside in the halls and anterooms. This depends wholly upon what we ourselves do here, and upon what we teach our children. Much of this may be decided in the Family Home Evening. I would like to leave my love with you all and ask the blessings of the Lord on all of your righteous desires. It is my testimony that Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior is the Son of the living God. 171 Lael J. Littke @ The mailman brought two letters on the day Kathryn Carlson realized that she was no longer a person. One of them was addressed to her, a short note from her mother saying that Grandma Ames was failing fast and that it would be well if Kathryn could come right away. The other letter was for fiveyear-old Mimi. It was merely a form letter from a children's book club, but Mimi was enchanted. ""Mama," she marveled, gazing in wonderment at her own name on the envelope. "Mama, somebody knows I'm a person." Kathryn put aside, for the moment, her somber thoughts of Grandma Ames. She smiled at the little girl who had just discovered that she was an individual and that someone in the wide world beyond her home recognized her as such. What could ever equal this discovery of self?