They are too often red herrings drawn across the trail, the alluring scent of which men and women smugly follow in order that the dominance of the strong over the weak may be rationalized. Give us more tractors in the field, more washing machines in the home, if you really mean that women are too frail in body to work. Abolish child labor, provide scientific care for our babies, if motherhood is too sacred to draw a good pay check. Permit us to earn our livelihoods by honorable means if your concern is for our morals. Perhaps, you say. Even so, there are not enough good jobs to go around. Men have families to support. But women, also, have families to support. If need is the criterion, why do we not limit the employment of those who because of accumulated wealth have no need of gainful employment? Would we send the banker back to the chimney WOMEN'S RIGHT TO WORK 87 corner in order that a needy woman might have productive work? Even the idea seems preposterous. Those who are secure do not surrender their jobs to those who are insecure. This, then, is the plain answer. Neither inferior physical strength, nor less need, nor the protection of the child forms the basis of discrimination against women. That discrimination arises from our competitive world, in which the strong exploit the weak. But my task is not to interpret, but to prove. WO theories of government in actuality deny women equality in rights. One 'conceives of 'society and the State exclusively in terms of the individual and is called individualism. The other, its counterpart, known as universalism, is predicated upon an independent entity, the State, which stands superior to the individual or his rights. The case seems more easily provable under the former theory. For the Dutch philosopher, Grotius, one of the earliest to take an individualist outlook in political science, deduced from the "originally social nature of man" the "inalienable and indestructible natural rights of the individual." To him natural rights were inherent in human nature. Probably Grotius thought in terms of male citizens. But since even women have their full share of human nature, we may assume that if man's right is inherent in his human nature, woman's natural right is inherent in her own. For whether, as according to the English philosopher, Hobbes, all individuals in a state of nature are free, self-dependent and hence mutually hostile, and therefore in order to escape the war of all against all ("Bellum omnium contra omnes") establish the State and relinquish to it all their natural rights; or whether, as according to Spinoza, natural freedom is relinquished to the State only in so far as is necessary for an orderly communal political life; or whether, as according to Rousseau, the State is the champion of natural rights, the theory of individualism is based primarily upon the inalienable and indestructible right of the individual arising out of human nature itself. That women did not share such rights was understandable. Philosophers did not really discover them for man himself until the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. The doctrine of natural rights was evolved by a capitalistic middle class as a satisfactory reason for the overthrow of feudalism; afterwards as the sound basis of a new economic and social order. The common man was free before his freedom was recognized as a natural right. His rights followed his power. The right to work was not originally enumerated among man's natural rights, since these were defined before the industrial age made a job a luxury. But life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, which were included, are today deeply rooted in free economic competition for both men and women. Therefore since such rights draw their justification, through reason, from human nature, are inalienable and indestructible, unless woman is devoid of or deficient in human nature, she must share them. Would it be because men have so long denied them to women, that as a rationalization they have called us "angels"? Woman's case under universalism, however, is not prima facie, but must be proven. For this is the governmental theory of dominance. It claims a distinguished ancestry. Plato proclaimed the super-state. Today's concept makes the State  more powerful, more important, than man's rights or the totality of all men. Its political principle is distributive justice. Therefore let us examine some of the contributions women have made to society. No less an authority than the noted historian, Mary R. Beard, concludes that women launched civilization. "Because primitive woman made herself into a cook and guardian of the hearth," Mrs. Beard says, "human beings no longer have to gnaw bones like dogs or wait for sunshine to broil their meat.... Primitive woman learned how to boil, bake and roast. She prowled around until she found the best sort of stones and then joined them into stoves and ovens. She molded mortar and pestle, instruments for grinding seeds and grain. "Mason insists that no one ever heard of a savage man having aught to do with the food plant industry. "Women were butchers, millers, harvesters, preservers of food. Women may plume themselves on having established all the branches of the textile industry—spinning and weaving, scraping and carding, dyeing and embroidering, tailoring and designing. "Women fingered and rubbed and scraped and mixed and dyed and soaked and baked the natural fibres and grasses and pebbles and clay and skins and feathers with which they came into contact, thereby extending domestic economy. "Women were the chief guardians of wells and pools. They invented the suction pump, according to David Livingstone's theory of the Bakalahari women. "The origin of fire itself lies deep buried in mystery. But in the great collection of fire myths assembled by Frazer, the honors, or the deceits by which wisdom was procured were divided about equally between the sexes." One might continue indefinitely. History abounds in woman's contribution to civilization. And since men have written that history we may be sure that not too much, but too little credit has been given to our sex. But governments based upon the universalist theory today lay probably greater stress upon the power and stability of the nation than upon exact justice. Let us, then, for the sake of argument, say that the power of the nation depends upon the strength of its men. Women must conceive and bear those men. Mothers mould their traits and character. THE evolution of humanity is the gradual conquest of mind over matter and the perfection of human relationships. | Since women must continue to have human nature's urge towards self-expression and fulfillment, their normal, uninhibited psychological expression is vital to the power and permanence of the State. Because to block this is to frustrate woman's strongest emotions, and that frustration projects its irritation upon the children, thus limiting and distorting their natural powers. It manifests itself in many ways, such as constant fault-finding or the mother's attempt to relive her life through the child's life. For example, financial dependence creates a feeling of personal inferiority which, even when a sense of security for the woman is found in marriage, is often transferred unconsciously by her to her children. Such compensation is disastrous to the development of the kind of manhood which a universalist State would seem to demand. Life plays many subtle tricks upon us. Is it not one of its little ironies that a State which keeps subservient WOMEN'S RIGHT TO WORK 89 its womankind in order to give its men a fuller chance must offer that fuller chance to men whose natures and characters have been warped in the making unwillingly, unconsciously, by frustrated, unhappy mothers? A male child, the offspring of a free father and a psychologically enslaved mother, will be part free and part slave. But there is yet a stronger argument. For six thousand years society required the work of, both men and women for sustenance. Then came the use of water, steam and electricity to supplement man's energy and the machine to take the place of human hands and feet and backs. During these six thousand years the output of energy per person, including that of man, animals and elementary machines, increased only from 2,000 to 4,000 units per person per day. In the last fifty years that output of energy has increased from 4,000 to 120,000 units per person per day. And the increase still goes forward at a tremendous rate. For example, five workers in digging the Welland Canal in Canada, can displace the same amount of earth which required 4,000 men in digging the Suez Canal in 1865. In the manufacture of incandescent lamps, one man can today do the work which in 1914 required 9,000 men. One might continue indefinitely with such instances. We must face the fact, and should do so gladly, that the necessary output of energy per person will grow less and less. To remove women from gainful employment will not solve the problem. And if they were to withdraw, to go back to the home, what then? One of two results. Either woman becomes a charge upon society, because the same newly found sources of energy and instruments of use have taken from the home her former work. Or if she is to do her part, she must use the old, less efficient methods. She can resume the daily tasks of her grandmother, doing by hand what can be done more economically by machine. But when she does, manufacturing of cloth, clothing, electrical appliances, canning, baking, laundering and a thousand other industries will cease. Thus unemployment will be greater than ever. So under individualism woman, because of her human nature, is entitled to equality; and also under the theory of the super-state, if for no other reason than because only in this way can the State achieve and exercise its complete function. But might makes right in our world, might incited by greed, fear, ignorance, the egoism of men and of women, as well—that same might which separates nation from nation, builds battleships and wages war; enslaves the poor for the benefit of the rich; the same might which incites prejudices against races and breeds intolerance of creeds. One force; many facets. "THEORETICAL might woman has—and potential might. And it is on the latter that the real speech should be. When will woman be consumed with the divine passion to use that might to enforce her rights? When will the half-gods go that the real gods may come? Oppenheim has said: "They can only set free men free And there is no need of that; Free men set themselves free." And the same, my friends, may be said of women. Through our might we could secure our right. Therefore let us talk less, or do more. Let us not use all our steam in blowing the whistle. Barren resolutions, for instance, excite our ego and soothe our conscience but are not  the swiftest forms of motivation. They are wishful thinking. They are not the end; only the beginning. They are an expression of opinion to be used as working agreements. But they have short legs of their own. There is a promised land of social justice to-all—even women. Dimly we can see it. Long have we talked about it; longer still have we prayed that the world might enter it. We have the right; we have the latent might. Let us go over and possess that land. "Free men set themselves free."