Masefield and His Message By C. Frank Steele
ALL great men are reverent, most of them are men of great faith. John Masefield is such a man. Again and again in his works his spiritual philosophy breaks through with prophetic radiance. Was it his long and intimate contact with the sea that gave Masefield this faith, the reach Godward, this trustfulness in His love and mercy? Perhaps. It is said that sailors are God-fearing men. And England's poet laureate was a sailor. He was indentured to the merchant marine at fourteen and in his fine poem, "The Wanderer," he reaches the pinnacle of lyrical beauty as he unfolds the career of "the loveliest ship my eyes have seen." Masefield is the greatest poet of the scene of England's glory—the sea. He speaks its language, rough and rugged and expressive; he knows its men and its women; he knows too its dangers and its toil, its pitilessness and its majesty! He has seen Neptune in many moods and sings of them again and again in his work. He sings also of the strong, God-fearing men who "go down to the sea in ships," who go down often never to return.
THERE is a haunting, mystical, spiritual note in much that Masefield has written. In his revealing study of "Poetry" in a lecture delivered at Queen's Hall, London, and published in the United States by the Macmillan Company, he interprets this for us. "I believe that the best poetry has always been a radiant perception of the life of the Universe, its Powers and its Laws. As they exist eternally, and that the mood of poetry in which they are perceived is an undying mood, existing eternally, as the Heart of Life: and that true poetry, which is a living in that mood, and a setting down of its truth, is necessarily eternal, too." Is not this another way of saying that great poetry flows from the font of divine truth and beauty? In fact, Masefield summons Milton to his aid in declaring that poetry is "the inspired gift of God, rarely bestowed."
He calls this poetic fire an "illumination" and goes on to express in language that leaves no room for doubt his belief in immortality, and not an immortality vague or fantastic but rather sublimely real and beautiful. He says: "I believe that this illumination exists eternally, and that all may know it in some measure, by effort or through grace. Those who deny can never have felt it. It is so intense that, compared with it, no other sensation seems to exist or to be real. It is so bright that all else seems to be shadow. It is so penetrating that in it the littlest thing, the grain of seed, the flower of a weed, the grain of sand, or the plume upon a moth's wing, are evidences of the depth and beauty and unity of life." How reminiscent of Whitman all this is! Continuing, he goes on to say: "This life upon this planet and this planet herself are parts or shadows or roots of something intenser and greater. We who are mortals are only partially incarnate, partially sentient, partially spiritual.
"But invisibly, very near us, touching us all, is a real world of divine order and beauty, inhabited by spirits whose mission it is to bring MASEFIELD AND HIS MESSAGE order and beauty where they can, to mortal souls struggling for such things; and remote as this world is in so many ways, its messengers are constant and its centre is everywhere."
In his discussion of poetry Masefield confines himself to four of the immortals — Homer, Aeschylus, Dante and Shakespeare. "The world, whose judgment cannot be set aside, has declared these four to be the masters. No others have such delight in life's abundance, nor such sense of the depth of its mystery," he declares. And from this foundation he proceeds to show this from their works, the whole study being eminently stimulating and revealing. Perhaps in this scant review enough has been said to kindle a desire for a thorough reading of the lecture. His conclusion sums up significantly the whole trend of his study: "His ways (the Divine King's ways) are the ways of light, and His words are the words of light, vouchsafed to a few great men of light, so that this world may know a little of the wisdom, beauty and power which are the daily bread of Paradise."
WHEN John Masefield wrote "The Everlasting Mercy" he gave us perhaps his most significant work. In this poem his art, the force of his genius is seen. It is a study in conversion, the conversion of a Herefordshire man, Saul Kane. The first part of the poem depicts Kane before the light of Christ came into his darkened soul, the latter part presents in sustained flights of sheer beauty the shaping of his "changed" life in his Lord. While the narrative is based upon Saul Kane, the character becomes the vehicle through which the poet unfolds his own rapturous vision of the "Everlasting Mercy." How deeply moving is Masefield's final outpouring of his soul to God:
"O Christ who holds the open gate, O Christ who drives the furrow straight, O Christ, the plough, O Christ, the laughter Of holy white birds flying after, Lo, all my heart's field red and torn, And thou wilt bring the young green corn, The young green corn divinely springing, The young green corn for ever singing; And when the field is fresh and fair Thy blessed feet shall glitter there. And we will walk the weeded field, And tell the golden harvest's yield, The corn that makes the holy bread By which the soul of man is fed, The holy bread, the food unpriced, Thy everlasting mercy, Christ."
JOHN MASEFIELD has an unfailing optimism reminiscent of Browning. Beyond the shadows shines the sun in its glory; reaching out to the man in the gutter is the hand of Divine Mercy. Spiritual reality is close to the poet. Like Shakespeare he believes in "a justice from outside life" which restores finite balance. It is Gilbert Thomas who says of him: "Firmly as his feet are set upon earth, his vision is never confined to it. In all his narrative poems, there is implied the suggestion that only half the story is told. The tragedy of The Widow of the Bye Street—like that of Dauber and the Daffodil Fields—is resolved into a final beauty which hints at—nay demands—the hope of Browning's line: 'In heaven, perhaps, new chances—one more chance.'"
IN addition to poetry and fiction, Masefield writes plays. These usually are produced at his own theatre at Boar's Hill, official residence of the Poet Laureate. He would bring back the days when the bards both wrote and spoke their work and he is giving practical support to a movement along this line in England today. While essentially a poet, Masefield has written plays in which he has achieved effects impossible in the field of poesy. Let me conclude this glimpse of a great poet and a great soul with an extract from one of his plays, "The Trial of Jesus," a work of restrained beauty and tenderness. Here, indeed, to stress a fine quality of Masefield the man, is unveiled the grandeur RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of his faith. This truly is more than a poetic gesture:
"Oh, if we call, our spirits may be doors, To those whose courage bears mercy and peace, Beauty and joy from shining corridors Whence comes the singing that may never cease. Oh to our spirits come Mercy, peace, beauty, joy: make here thy heaven, thy home."