The Lean' Years By Alberta Huish Christensen 3 Awarded Second Prize in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poetry Contest Tis strange to kneel in gratitude for loss; More strange that 1, who always measured life By laughter's gilded coin—laurels won— Should bless thee, who so like a piercing knife First brought me pain. I did not know till then How I had builded with the stones of greed A wall through which my neighbor's hungry cry I could not hear, nor see his daily need— But ob how chastened is the soul by fire;— How full the heart that drains another's tears. An overwhelming peace now fills my veins, A strength which is not born of sheltered years— Mine is the debt; you gave new eyes to me; You loosed the spirit's chains and set me free! ALBERTA HUISH CHRISTENSEN The Underlying Principles of Women's Right to Work Address of Lena Madesin Phillips President of the National Council of Women of the United States, and of the International Federation of Business and Professional Women, given at a Mass Meeting on WOMEN'S RIGHT TO WORK under the auspices of the International Council of Women Grand Amphitheatre, Sorbonne, Paris, July 5, 1934. NLY a Yankee with a sense of humor or a diplomat conditioned in the use of language to obscure rather than to express meaning is entitled to this subject, clothed as it is in the generally accepted legalitarian phraseology, Woman's Right to Work. For that right has never been questioned. From the vantage point of this congress, I see her toiling in the fields, bearing upon her back the burden of the pack horse, scrubbing, washing, cooking, sewing, working in poverty and need from sunrise to sunset—and even then still working. Who questions her right to these and a thousand other labors? Who questions woman's right to the unpaid or poorly paid drudgeries of the world? No one. Indeed humanity's struggle has ever been a struggle to have more and more while working less and less. To sow grain required less work than to find and gather it in its wild state—hence agriculture. To transport it by train or steamship required less effort than to carry it upon the backs of men or beasts. Perhaps speech itself was developed in part as a labor-saving device. It was easier for primitive man to ejaculate a certain noise which eventually came to mean plenty of food or running water than to lead his companion to the place where he himself might see these things. No, it is not the right to work to which woman aspires and which she is denied. This she has and has ever had. It is her right to equal pay for equal work, to the jobs paying more money for less work; and it is her right to opportunity and power with their attendant prestige. For say what we will about the protection of the morals and health of women and the heritage of the unborn generation, these are not the primary reasons for discrimination against women in gainful occupations.