CURTAIN An Interesting Letter THE following letter from a daughter of Dr. Samuel Gridley Howe will be of interest to our organizations in their study of this great man. Mrs. Sorenson is the stake social service leader of Wells Stake. She says: "On December 9th I was listening to Alexander Woolcott on the Town-Crier radio program over KSL. In this program he paid tribute to Mrs. Laura E. Richards, the 85-year-old daughter of Dr. Samuel G. And Julia Ward Howe. I knew that in our public library we had only one book on the life of Dr. Howe for reference work in our social service work in Relief Society. It occurred to me that Mrs. Richards might be able to refer me to some further information about where to obtain material on the life of her father. I thought also that she would be pleased to know that so many women were studying about her famous father. This was the letter which came in answer." Gardiner, Maine, December 26, 1934. Mrs. W. A. Sorenson, 1590 South West Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear Mrs. Sorenson: I am ashamed to have left your letter, even for a few days, unanswered, but my eyes have been troubling me, otherwise you would have heard from me before. You did not perhaps realize that you were sending me in your letter a Christmas present more dear to my heart than almost anything else could be,—this beautiful tribute to my father's memory, and the knowledge that you and such a great number of other women are thinking of him and preparing to take up his life for study. This comes at a most fortunate time. I am even now correcting the proof of my new life of my father (who, by the way, was always called Dr. Howe): "The Life of Dr. Samuel Gridley Howe." It will be published in March by the D. Appleton-Century Company, 35 West 32nd St., New York City. This will give you all the material you really need, but I cannot refrain from telling you of the other works bearing upon my father's life. They are: Memoir, written by my mother, shortly after his death. Life of Dr. S. G. Howe, by F. B. Sanborn, published by Funk & Wagnalls, 1891. Letter and Journals of Samuel Gridley Howe, edited by myself, published by the L. C. Page Co., Boston, 1905. Two Noble Lives, a little book written by me for school children, telling briefly and simply the stories of both my parents' lives. Published by the L. C. Page Co., 1911. Laura Bridgman, written by my sisters, Maud Howe and Florence Howe Hall, published by Little, Brown & Co., Boston, 1903. Laura Bridgman, written by myself, published by the D. Appleton Co., New York, in 1928. I might add to this list his own "Sketch of the Greek Revolution," published in 1828; long out of print, but occasionally a volume turns up in a bookdealer's hands; and his wonderful "Reports" of the Perkins Institution, which might possibly be found in the Library of your State Institution for the Blind. They were published annually for forty years. And were eagerly read all over the civilized world. One thing more: in his "American Notes," Charles Dickens gives a most beautiful tribute to my father, and his work with Laura Bridgman. I cannot but feel, dear Mrs.