Sorenson, that your springtime study will not only be profitable but deeply (Continued on page 113) Notes from the Field RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING SISTERS AND BRANCH PRESIDENCY, OSLO, Norwegian Mission: THE above picture represents the branch presidency, the group of "Singing Sisters" and the sisters of the Relief Society organization in Oslo of the Norwegian Mission. Due to the excellent cooperation of the Relief Society sisters in this mission the Relief Society conferences of the different branches have been most successful, and were greatly appreciated by the Saints and their friends. During the Oslo Branch Relief Society Conference the outstanding feature was the beautiful music furnished by the "Singing Sisters." They rendered in English the song "Opportunity." This is found in the December, 1933, issue of the Relief Society Magazine. After the singing the words were read in Norwegian. In this particular branch the group of singers are called "Singing Sisters" as there are so many of the Relief Society members unmarried. The sisters of this mission enjoy the lessons very much, particularly those in theology. Due to the diffi NORWAY culties arising in translation, the Relief Societies in Norway are dropping behind a year, as suggested by President Joseph F. Merrill. So for the current year they are studying "Latter-day Revelation" in the Theology period. In the teachers' topic period they are studying "What is Mormonism," by John A. Widtsoe. In Literature some of the outstanding authors of the world are considered. Among these are Charles Dickens, Shakespeare, George Eliot, Victor Hugo, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and others. In Social Service they are using the lessons prepared especially for the Missions on "Health and Home Nursing." Due to the present crisis and the financial distress that exists among so many of the people, the Social Service lessons make a great appeal. For the next year the lessons outlined for 1934-35 will be very acceptable. Relief Societies are organized and working very successfully in Narvik, Trondheim, Stavanger, Bergen. Haugesund, Oslo, Drammen, Moss, 112 Fredrikstad, Arendal. | Whether there is a large or small membership the same sweet spirit of the Gospel exists in each society that is found in any similar gathering in Zion. Sister Vivian C. Knudsen, who has sent in the information in reference to Norwegian Mission gives the following beautiful picture: "Norway, renowned for its natural beauty, is indeed a most wonderful country. Summer and winter are equally attractive. It is truly the tourists' country of Europe. In the journey from Oslo to Bergen one travels on one of the most wonderful pieces of railroading in the world. It is truly a masterpiece of engineering. In the 375 miles there are 184 tunnels. From the car window one sees a panorama of scenery unexcelled; scores of silvery waterfalls leaping down the green slopes of the mountains, mountain lakes resting in peaceful valleys, beautiful country farms nestled in the luxurious green shrubbery, and the fjords winding far into the mountains. Spring brings the flowers with a verdure that carpets the earth, autumn brings a wealth of colors, golden, crimson and green predominating; winter brings the hoar frost which covers everything, changing it to a gorgeous fairyland. Norway, the land of the midnight sun and long shadows, is a land of beauty unsurpassed." Northwestern States Mission: FROM the Northwestern States Mission comes the interesting report of the opening session of a very successful year. A program which was unique and unusual in its nature was held in the Portland Branch Relief Society at the opening of the season's work. This was for the members of the organization and in honor of the retiring Presidency. The program consisted of original ideas characteristic of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE outlined work of the departments for the year. The magazine was represented in a playlet called "The Spirit of the Magazine," and the song was a fitting climax to the dramatization. The Home Nursing unit presented a humorous skit. The story of Ruth, representing the Literary Dept., was very beautifully told. The Social Service Department was vividly portrayed by four tableaus depicting the work of Elizabeth Fry, Florence Nightingale, Jane Addams and the teachings of Christ in "Feed My Lambs." There was very beautiful music interspersed throughout the program and altogether the meeting was voted a most successful entertainment. Salt Lake Stake: THE Salt Lake Stake Relief Society is a splendid example of the very careful organization and planning of the year's work in advance. The program represents the fine spirit of cooperation which exists in this progressive stake, between the stake and ward officers and the entire membership. The general motto of the stake is voiced in: "We believe in progression through the learning and living of Gospel principles." The following definite program is mapped out: The stake and ward department class leaders' convention in September; the ward Relief Society visiting teachers' convention also in September; in October; the ward Relief Society conferences beginning in November and running through to the early spring; the stake board meeting held twice regularly each month; the stake Union Meeting held the last Friday of each month. Salt Lake stake makes it a point to entertain the County Infirmary patients once each year, and the stake board has a very delightful Christmas party. The stake and ward Relief Societies sponsor a Temple excursion. There NOTES FROM THE FIELD is a mothers' and daughters' evening specially planned, and the stake literary day is held during the close of the year. The season's activity is really brought to a conclusion with a ward and stake exhibition day when samples of the beautiful and artistic work done through the year's program is placed on exhibition. Before adjournment for summer vacation the stake board holds a delightful reception for its ward officers. There are nine stepping stones of progress which are outlined as follows: I. Progress through activity (a) Continuous growth II. Progress through study (a) Magazines (b) Text Books (c) General Material III. Progress through faith (a) In Deity (b) In Self (c) In Fellowmen IV. Progress through service (a) To living (b) To dead V. Progress through self-expression (a) Learn to do by doing VI. Progress through obedience to law (a) Church (b) Land VII. Progress through appreciation (a) Membership and calling in Church (b) Friendships gained 113 (c) Opportunities provided VIII. Progress through study of motherly virtues. (a) Spiritual (b) Moral (c) Physical IX. Progress through love of the beautiful (a) Human soul (b) Nature (c) Fine Arts Idaho Falls Stake: A MOST successful stake Relief Society Work and Business Day was held in Idaho Falls Stake in October, 1934. Each ward was given space in which to display the various articles made through the ward work days during the year. There were many beautiful and artistic things on exhibition: dinner trays, lemonade coasters and baskets made of reed, artificial flowers in brilliant hues and ornamental dolls dressed in colors showing the uses of crepe paper. There were many quilts and rugs of various kinds. Perhaps the most interesting and practical phase of the work was in remodeled clothing. The apron department was also most interesting. Patterns of the models on display were given to those who wished them. There were departments where recipes for different foods were interchanged. The exhibition was combined with a fine social event and refreshments served at the small tables. The stake officers were hostesses to more than 300 ward workers. An Interesting Letter (Concluded from page 110) interesting. The number you name —sixty-five thousand women—who are taking up this study, is deeply impressive. If you have the opportunity, by radio or otherwise, of coming in touch with them, please give them my very kindest greetings, and tell them that I wish them well in all their study and all their good works. With kindest regards, Believe me, dear Mrs. Sorenson, Faithfully yours, (Signed) Laura Richards. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND General Secretary and Treasurer THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager -: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman 

VOL. XXII FEBRUARY, 1935 No. 2 The Prophet's Admonition "New occasions teach new duties, Building up the morale of the people. Time makes ancient good uncouth; They must upward still and onward Who would keep abreast of truth.' food for the physical body. The ?Lowell. WHEN the Relief Society was first organized, the paramount thing in the minds of its officers was "searching after objects of charity and administering to their wants." The first admonition of the Prophet has during the years since he organized the Society been carefully and wonderfully carried out. Now that the Government is taking care of most of the physical needs of the people, the organization will have more time and energy to heed more fully the second admonition of the prophet, to "assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." "This Society," said the Prophet, at a later meeting, "is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls." Building up the morale of the people, giving them a desire for the things of the spirit is quite as vital as food for the physical body. The Church offers educational and spiritual opportunities that are not appreciated by many. They let their children grow up without the training the auxiliaries and Priesthood Quorums give. They do not realize that they are handicapping their children by their carelessness. A prominent business man recently said, "There is only one thing I hold against my parents. They were kind and loving, they gave us opportunities to attend school, but they did not encourage us to attend the auxiliary organizations. As a result, I cannot appear as well as others in the community in  public affairs. I have not been trained to express myself before others. I lack the poise that comes from such training."