Our Relief Society By Amelia M. Barker  The Book of Mormon opening 4 ft Illus. No. Illus. No. 1 The following proportions serve nicely: each frame 6 ft. High, 3 ft. Wide, made of thin "re-saw", side strips and bottom 3 or 4 in. Wide, top strip 6 or 8 in. Wide, leaving an opening in the center of each leaf about 5 by 2½ ft. The framework for the covers is entirely covered with paper and lettered to represent a Relief Society Magazine. For the leaves only the framework is covered. Through one side of each page and also the covers a hole an inch in diameter is bored about a foot from the top and 4 in. From the bottom. The pages are numbered as in any book. The title announcing the program number is lettered on the odd-numbered pages. A companion title to it is lettered on the opposite even-numbered page and is in full sight when the page is turned back, as in illustration number 1. Our titles were: Page 1. Welcome. 2. Home. 3. Motherhood. 4. Block Teaching. 5. Handiwork. 6. Ethics. 7. Music. 8. Drama. 9. Literature. 10. Poetry. 11. Art. 12. History. 13. Biography. 14. Health. 15. Food and Nutrition. 16. Civics. 17. Social Welfare. 18. Theology. 19. Book of Mormon. 20. Theology. 21. Doctrine and Covenants. Eleven leaves, two covers,—13 frames in all. Illus. No. 3 The standards on which the leaves swing are made by bending two small iron rods 5 ft. Long as shown in illustration number 2. The hardware store where we bought our rods bent them for us without extra charge and made threads on each end so they could be bolted firmly into the 2 by 4 uprights. The uprights (illus. No. 3) are 6 ft. High and are braced 3 ft. Apart with the rods inserted top and bottom so the leaves will swing clear of the floor. Of course the leaves must be slipped on the rods before the rods are bolted into the uprights. Then this supporting frame is placed at such an angle that when the leaves grouped at AA' are slipped along the rods to B the center opening in the leaf will be squarely before the audience. The performer steps over the rod from the back, then through the opening in the leaf to enter upon the stage. Two 'pages' in costume stand at A' and C', the first to swing the leaf into position at B, and hold it as the performer steps through and gives her number, the second to swing it around to C when that number is finished. No reader is needed. The number is announced by the title at the top of the page through which the performer enters. ' 104 Magazine No. 2. Is a lath framework 4 ft. High, 2 ft. Wide, and 18 in. Thick, covered with paper lettered and decorated to represent a Relief Society Magazine. Pleated paper indicates the leaf edges. It will be large enough to enable a child of 7 or 8 years to stand inside it and carry it around. Peep-holes must be provided among the cover decorations to allow him to see his way around the stage. Careful costuming adds to its effectiveness. Time for presentation, 1½ hrs, Setting. A living-room. The ordinary curtain cyclorama. At the left, back stage, stands the Relief Society Magazine closed. To the right of it a writing table on which are books, Relief Society Magazines, a work basket, sewing materials, etc. Against the right wall, a divan with pillows, a reading lamp. Several easy chairs. The curtain rises showing the pages in their places at A' and C'. They slide the front cover into place at C', then bring page No. I into position at B. The President of the Relief Society steps through the page, advances to center front and speaks. "Dear friends, we welcome you here tonight on this the...... Anniversary of the founding of our Relief Society. We have a pleasing little play that we think you will enjoy. It shows the various phases of work taken up in our meetings and the many interesting and instructive subjects for study and discussion outlined in our lessons. We invite all you sisters to join with us, come to our meetings, that all of you, old and young, may be encouraged and blessed in our association together. March 17th, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the first Relief Society with only 18 charter members. Since that time our membership has increased to over 65,000. Our activities have been so farreaching and so effective that today The Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is known as one of the most efficient organizations for women in our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE great nation and has gained international recognition. Not only does it look after the relief of the sick and the needy, but it is also a great educational institution, offering to its members valuable instruction in all subjects tending to uplift and enlighten womanhood, — personal culture, temporal vision, spiritual inspiration. This is given us through the medium of The Relief Society Magazine. We shall now try to give you an idea of the enjoyment to be derived from its pages." (Exits left. Page 1 is slipped into place at A. Page 3 is brought forward.) (Pages 2-3. Home and Motherhood.) (Mother steps through the page. She shifts chairs, arranges articles on the table, etc., sits down at table, picks up work. "Pages" exit quietly. Freddie, 6, and Buddie, 3, enter right. Buddie sits down front center and plays with a toy. Freddie approaches his mother. She lays down her work, and inspects him carefully, neck, ears, hair, hands.) MOTHER: That's fine, son. You look nice. You needn't start to school for ten minutes yet. But be careful and don't get all mussed up. (He joins Buddie. Mother takes up work as Jean, 10, enters right, calling eagerly.) Jean: Mother, did you get my sewing material for this afternoon? Where is it? MOTHER: Here on the table. Don't lose my scissors, will you, dear. (Jean goes round back of the table, examines her material. Paul, 13, enters, right, holding out a scout neckerchief all wet.) PAUL: Look, mother, what a funny color it's gone. MOTHER: Hang it on the rack, dear. It will be all right when it's dry. Remember to press it as soon as you get home from school tonight. PAUL: I'll sure have to hustle after school. I've made an appointment to pass a test before scout meeting tonight. (He hurries out with neckerchief, right, almost collides with George, 16, entering, intent on arranging books and papers in his brief-case. He drops some. ) GEORGE: Here, look what you're doing! (Stoops to pick them up. Ella, 18, enters behind him, pulling a frock over her head as she hurries in. She trips over George's papers scattering them again.) ELLA (quickly): Mother, will you pin the collar in place on this dress, please. Dr. Munn's taking us on a Geology hike this afternoon, so I'll be late getting home. I won't have a minute before Mutual and the dance starts right after. (Mother helps her.) GEORGE (explodes): The next one that comes barging in here I'll— (Aunt Lulu enters, left, swiftly followed by Father, hat in hand, smiling. Aunt Lulu is a charming, gracious woman, about 50, welldressed, wears traveling ulster and hat.) ELLA (exclaims): O, here's Daddy and Aunt Lu! (Mother and Ella rush to greet her affectionately. They stand with their arms around one another. Jean, George, Paul, and Buddie crowd round her. Greetings in natural manner.) MOTHER: I'm so glad you're here! Did you have a nice trip? ELLA: Let me take your things. (Exits right with wrap, hat, purse.) PAUL: Where's your grip, Aunt Lu? DADDY: Out in the car. PAUL: I'll bring it in. (Exits Left.) GEORGE (his papers collected): Want lunch, Dad? I guess there's something left. (They exit, right, together. Ella enters right, with a tray. ) ELLA: I know you're starved, 105 Aunt Lu. Here's some nice hot soup. I'll get something else in a second. We've just finished lunch. Aunt Lu: No, don't trouble, please. I'm too excited to eat right now. (Paul re-enters left, with grip. Daddy enters, right, hastily wiping his mouth and looking at his watch.) DADDY: I'll have to hurry back to the office. Anybody want a ride? (Ella hastily catches up purse and notebook, George seizes briefcase.) GEORGE: I ought to be back at High School this minute! ELLA: Let me out at Campus Corner. (They hurry out, left, after Daddy, calling back.) ELLA: Goodbye, Mother. Goodbye, Aunt Lu. GEORGE: See you later! MOTHER: Goodness! You children hurry or you'll be late for school. (Jean and Paul scurry for school things, Jean her sewing materials, Paul a baseball mit. They kiss mother and Aunt Lu and hurry out left.) Aunt Lu (tasting her soup): What a busy bunch you have, Lettie. Are they always rushing places? I'm dizzy already. (As she speaks Grandma enters, left. Aunt Lu sets her tray aside and rises. They embrace.) GRANDMA: My dear girl! You're looking well. How are Phil and the children? Aunt Lu: All just fine. Bob's at Pittsburgh Tech. And Betty's at Vassar. Phil had to hurry on to Portland on business for the firm, but I couldn't go through without stopping off to say hello to you people. GRANDMA (picks up Buddie): How are you today? (Sits, holding baby on her lap.) I knew Lettie expected you today so I thought I'd drop in before Relief Society Meeting. It's our work meeting today. We're putting on a quilt. Thank goodness I can still quilt. 106 Aunt Lu: Yes, I suppose Relief Society is a big comfort to women your age. But I'll wager Lettie here with all her bunch to care for has no time to waste in Relief Society meeting. I remember you used to take me with you when I was a little tot. The women pieced quilt blocks and sewed carpet rags and talked— whew!—the gossip!—and we young ones played with the balls of rags and wrapped our dolls in the quilt pieces. Up-to-date women today consider their own self-development of chief importance and grasp every opportunity to improve themselves. While Phil has been in the New York office I have received my degree from Columbia University, you know, and I always keep in touch with world progress through my club work wherever we live. Little Sister Lettie, here, used to be the brightest one of us all. It's a shame the way she's been tied down with babies and housework every minute. (Throws her arms around mother's shoulders and gives her an affectionate squeeze.) It's too bad. MOTHER: But my children—I don't mind— Aunt Lu: O, they're lovely children — perfect dears — but you shouldn't let them absorb all your time. As a girl you had wonderful talent. What do you know today of music, art, literature, the lives and works of our great men and women, the progress of science, foods and nutrition welfare work— MOTHER (with gentle dignity): Why we study those things in Relief Society, Lulu, every one of them. Our lessons are outlined for us by authorities in every field of study and research. (picks up Relief Society Magazine and flutters its pages) Here is our Relief Society Magazine with our lesson material, also splendid articles on such inter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE esting subjects—and the best stories —poems—everything. It's a big help to me with my family. Aunt Lu (takes magazine, looks it over thoughtfully): Is that right. Well, well! If it just helps you to manage your big household, that's worthwhile. When I think of the time I've had getting Betty and Bob where they are now—why, a million dollars couldn't hire me to go through it again. Honestly, Lettie, I think I'd go crazy if I had as many as you. GRANDMA: The main thing, I think, is to keep them busy. Aunt Lu: Yes, but how! We've spent thousands of dollars on camps, hikes, trips, dancing lessons— MOTHER: Our Church organization practically takes care of keeping young people busy. You've been out of touch with our Church so long, Lulu, that I suppose you've forgotten the Priesthood quorums, Sunday Schools, Primary, Mutual— with its Beehive work and the Boy Scouts—besides school work and home duties—we haven't an idle moment. Relief Society is not for old ladies alone. You should see the young women we have. As for clubs—we're affiliated with the National Council of Women. Our course of study is broader than any club program because it includes religious teachings, too. Come to meeting with me and see. Oh, there goes Mrs. Brown with the quilt she took home last time to finish binding. (goes to left, calls) Mrs. Brown, come in a minute! (Pages re-enter and turn leaf.) 5. Handiwork. (Mrs. Brown and Mrs. Gray step through the leaf.) MOTHER: Mrs. Brown — Mrs. Gray—this is Lulu, my eldest sister. She has been away from home so long she doesn't know about us nowadays. Show her some of our handwork. (They unfold the quilt they OUR RELIEF SOCIETY carry and display it before the audience.) Aunt Lu: O, it's lovely! (Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Jones step through leaf. They bear various articles of beauty made in work meetings, children's apparel, scarf, cushion, etc. Introductions. Articles are shown and admired.) Mrs. SMITH: Are you going to meeting, Lettie? We didn't know your sister was here and we thought we'd call for you as we went by. AUNT LU: Go on, Lettie. I'm rather tired and would like a nap. MOTHER: Very well, I will. An hour's rest is just what you need. (The ladies collect their articles with mother, grandma and baby exit left, calling back goodbyes. Aunt Lu takes a magazine, arranges pillows and settles herself comfortably on couch. Silence, or low music as she turns pages slowly. Relaxes in sleep. From right small Relief Society Magazine enters and glides around stage as the R. S. Chorus sings to tune No. 127 R. S. Song book.) OUR GUIDE Our magazine inspired and true Each month our lives you bless, That we our daily tasks pursue In joy and thankfulness. CHORUS All hail, our wondrous magazine! How we depend on thee. To guide our hearts and hands and minds, In Relief Society. From out thy pages truths so bright In varied forms appear Our souls to thrill, our paths to light Throughout the coming year. CHORUS (Magazine exits left. Fourth leaf is turned, page 7. Music. Vocal or instrumental. Fifth leaf, page 9. Literature. A short short story. Sixth leaf, page 11. Art. Tap dancing— 107 fancy drill by school children, etc. Seventh leaf, page 13. Biography. Any noteworthy woman. Biblical characters are good, especially if the biblical language is used. Eighth leaf, page 15. Food and Nutrition. Nine small children appropriately costumed to represent a bottle of milk, an apple, wheat, an egg, an orange, lettuce, a tomato, a carrot, and a bunch of celery, enter and sing.) THE SONG OF THE VITAMINS (Tune: Jingle Bells) A few short years ago Some doctors wise and good, Found out some things you all should know About your daily food. They learned we saucy elves, Chuck full of pep and vim, Are hiding in good things you eat, And they called us "Vitamins." CHORUS Vitamins! Vitamins! A and B and C! In carrots, wheat, and oranges, eggs, milk and celery. Hold us tight! Treat us right! Then our aid you'll win, We bright little, shy little, nice little, spry little, gay little Vitamins! (They whirl lightly around stage as pianist repeats chorus.) We hide in many ways, But that is all in fun, We really wish you'd find us all, And nab us every one! So, if you want to grow Up big and tall and strong, Catch every vitamin you can, And we'll help you along. CHORUS Vitamins! Vitamins! A and B and C! In lettuce, apples, oranges, tomatoes, celery! Hold us tight! Treat us right! Then our aid you'll win. 108 We bright little, shy little, nice little, spry little, gay little Vitamins! (They whirl off the stage as pianist repeats chorus. Costumes are best made of wire shapes covered with crepe paper.) Ninth Leaf, page 17. Social Welfare (Recitation) THE BRIDGE BUILDER (R. S. Magazine, Vol. 13, 1926, p. 314) An old man, going a lone highway, Came at the evening, cold and gray, To a chasm vast and deep and wide. The old man crossed in the twilight dim, The sullen stream had no fear for him. But he turned when safe on the other side, And built a bridge to span the tide. "Old man," said a fellow pilgrim near, "You are wasting your strength by building here; Your journey will end with the ending day, You never again will pass this way, You've crossed the chasm deep and wide, Why build you this bridge at eventide?" The builder lifted his fair grey head: "Good friend, in the path I have come," he said, There followeth after me, today, A youth whose feet must pass this way; This chasm, that has been as naught to me, To that fair-haired youth may a pitfall be. He, too, must cross in the twilight dim— Good friend, I am building this bridge for him!" Tenth leaf, page 19. Book of Mormon. (R. S. Chorus sings "An RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE angel from on high," first three verses. (Songs of Zion, No.8) During the singing of the third verse a Lamanite chieftain steps out of the book and with stately and dignified mien walks to right front, where he stands looking into the distance in proud silence. The chorus immediately sings, "O stop and tell me, red man." (Songs of Zion, No. 224) From out the book and crossing Stage to right passes a silent procession: first, "Pilgrims going to church," then hunters and trappers, then surveyors, who pause, set up tripod, rod, etc., make notations in business-like way, then an Indian family of today—a dirty, greasy "buck" in white man's clothing slouches by, followed by a squaw carrying a papoose on her back. After her scurry several Indian children. The Lamanite chieftain watches them sadly. As the last child disappears, he raises both arms high into the air, face lifted as if in supplication to the Great Spirit, then lets arms fall heavily, despairingly, and exits slowly, right, head drooping mournfully. Eleventh leaf, page 21. (The Doctrine and Covenants. As a soloist sings the first verse of "Joseph the Seer." (Songs of Zion, No. 213) Joseph the Prophet enters followed by Oliver Cowdery. Joseph motions Oliver to a seat at the table. He paces the stage thoughtfully.) JOSEPH: Brother Oliver, I feel impressed to deliver a message from God to the people. Will you record it, please? I command you, all ye my saints, to build a house unto me. "Build a house to my name for the most High to dwell therein. For there is not a place found on earth that He may come and restore again that which was lost unto you, or which He has taken away, even the fulness of the Priesthood." And verily I say unto OUR RELIEF SOCIETY you, let this house be built unto my name, that I may reveal mine ordinances therein unto my people. (Sec. 124) Chorus sings: We want to see the temple with towers rising high, Its spires majestic pointing unto the clear blue sky. A house where saints may gather and richest blessings gain, Where Jesus, our Redeemer, a dwelling may obtain. (Songs of Zion, No. 195) (Nine little girls dressed in white enter, each bearing a picture of one of the temples enlarged on cardboard 18 x 24 in. Under each picture is its name and date of dedication, as KIRTLAND TEMPLE, dedicated March 27, 1836. As they hold the pictures up to view, the chorus sings.) Ho, ho, for the temple's completed, The Lord has a place for his head. The Priesthood in power now lightens The way of the living and dead. (Psalmody, No. 273) (Emma Smith enters, curtsies to Joseph and Oliver, sits in chair center stage which Joseph places for her. He stands behind her chair. Sec. 25.) JOSEPH: "Hearken unto the voice of the Lord your God, while I speak unto you, Emma Smith, my daughter. * * * Behold, thy sins are forgiven thee and thou art an elect lady whom I have called. * * * And the office of thy calling shall be for a comfort unto my servant, Joseph Smith. Jun., thy husband, in his afflictions with consoling words, in the spirit of meekness. And thou shalt go with him at the time of his going and be unto him for a scribe. And thou shalt be ordained under his 109 hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the church, according as it shall be given thee by my spirit. For he shall lay his hands upon thee and thou shalt receive the Holy Ghost, and thy time shall be given to writing and to learning much. "And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." (She exits right. The prophet continues.) "And behold thou wilt remember the poor, and consecrate of thy properties for their support. And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me." (Sec. 42) "And remember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same is not my disciple." (Sec. 52) (Joseph and Oliver exit right. Mother and Grandma enter left. Aunt Lu rises to meet them.) Aunt Lu: Mother, Lettie, I've been looking through your Relief Society Magazine and I'm amazed. I had no idea Relief Society work could be so wonderful. From now on I mean to keep in touch with my nearest organization. Lettie, I take back all I said to you before meeting. You see I didn't know! "While the pianist plays lively march music, all the participants in the program, including the members of the chorus, form a tableau group on the stage. When all are in their places they sing the first verse of 'Have I done any good in the world today?' (Deseret S. S. Songs, No. 207)."