Keepsakes for the Treasure Chest By Lella Marler Hoggan
OF all the attributes of heart or soul that should be cherished and cultivated and held fast, faith is the first and the last. For, in a measure, all of the other virtues grow out of this sustaining power.
In joy and in success it gives wings to our aspirations. In sorrow and in defeat it sustains and strengthens our crushed spirit. Through the long stretches of troubled nights, through racking days of anxiety, when the soul is brought down to the very dust, it is faith that renews and uplifts the fainting heart. It is the power that has given the race courage and fortitude to subdue the elements and establish civilization. It is back of every achievement. It has lighted the feet of man along every beaten path that the race has trodden from the jungle to the paved highway. It is more than hope, it is greater than courage, it is that certain assurance, that unquestioning confidence that knows no defeat. It is the lighted candle that guides the children of men through the darkest hours of life.
These strenuous times are as the hand writing on the wall. Are we losing confidence in the ultimate purpose of life, in the triumphant destiny of man?
"Stand not to doubt, Nothing's so hard, but search will find it out."
KEEP FAITH
"No vision and you perish, no ideal and you're lost: Your heart must ever cherish some faith at any cost. Some hope, some dream to cling to, some rainbow in the sky, Some melody to sing to, some service that is high."
That power that is deeper than the foundation of the earth and higher than the stars, still guards the safety and happiness of the human race. Through paths of pain and sorrow the God of Israel has brought us from the ends of the earth, and has established for us an empire in the heart of the everlasting hills. He has held us in the protection of his mighty arm and has led us into the land of promise. We are the children of prophecy, a prophecy that stands but half fulfilled. For the sake of all that has gone before, we must not forget. In these last days of doubt and fear, will the Mothers in Israel break faith with God?
Faith, then, will be the first keepsake to go into our treasure chest of life. Nowhere in the scripture is there a more beautiful expression of this divine gift, than in the Shepherd's Psalm. Let us make it one of our memories.
"The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. "He maketh me to lie down in green pastures; he leadeth me beside the still waters. "He restoreth my soul; he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me: thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. "Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over. "Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever."