e into a nursery for all sorts of isms, political as well as social, with which the Chicago of the period was infested. The next five years comprised what Miss Addams terms (quoting from Tolstoy) the "snare of preparation." She made two trips to Europe. On her graduation she decided to study medicine, and with this purpose in mind she went to Philadelphia and entered a medical school. But "the development of the spinal difficulty which had shadowed me from childhood" compelled her to seek the aid of a physician, with the result that she spent the next six 128 months in bed, enjoying "the luxurious consciousness of leisure."' In reality she was glad of an excuse to give up medicine as a career. On partially recovering (she did not fully recover till after she had established herself in Hull House), she went to Europe, on the advice of her doctor. 3. The Settlement Takes Root in Chicago. During her first visit to England Miss Addams experienced a shock, out of which gradually came the idea of Hull House. It was when she was touring London's East Side, where are "the oldest, the biggest, and the dirtiest slums in the whole world." A crowd of the "submerged tenth," haggard, ill-clad, unkempt, were bidding their farthings and ha'pennies for vegetables held up by an auctioneer. These vegetables were in various stages of decomposition, for it was Monday, and they had been kept over from Saturday. Of the poor creatures who were thus bidding for these vegetables she says: "Their pale faces were dominated by that most unlovely human expression, the cunning and shrewdness of the bargain-hunter who starves if he cannot make a successful trade, and yet the final impression was not of ragged, tawdry clothing nor of pinched and sallow faces, but of myriads of hands, empty, pathetic, nerveless and workworn, showing white in the uncertain light of the street, and clutching forward for food which was already unfit to eat.. For the following weeks I went about London almost furtively, afraid to look down narrow streets and alleys lest they disclose again this hideous human need and suffering." It was out of this experience, and her growing sense of the futility of the purely cultural life, that Hull RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE House became first an idea and then a reality. One of her companion-travelers in Europe, on her second visit there, was Ellen Gates Starr. After witnessing a bull-fight in Spain one time, when it dawned upon her mind that she had been "tied to the tail of the veriest ox-cart of self-seeking," as she says, instead of "following in the wake of a chariot of philanthropic fire, she hesitantly revealed to Miss Starr a plan she had formed to establish a Settlement House in Chicago. Miss Starr fell in with the idea and indicated a desire to join her in the project. Immediately Miss Addams set off for London to get first-hand some ideas to be applied in her scheme. She spent considerable time in Toynbee Hall, for she proposed to do in Chicago what Cannon Barnett and the University group were doing in Whitechapel, East London. Miss Starr became a co-founder of Hull House. Hull House, which was chosen shortly after Miss Addams' return from Europe, is on Halsted Street. It was built and occupied by Charles J. Hull, a Chicago pioneer; hence its name. At the time, however, it was owned by Miss Helen Culver, who generously gave a free lease to the entire place. "Hull House," says Miss Addams, "once stood in the suburbs, but the city has steadily grown up around it, and its site now has corners on three or four foreign colonies. Between Halsted Street and the river live about ten thousand Italians?Neapolitans, Sicilians, and Calabrians, with an occasional Lombard or Venetian. To the south on Twelfth Street are many Germans and side streets are given over almost entirely to Polish and Russian Jews. Still farther south, these Jewish colonies merge into a huge Bohemian colony, so vast that Chicago ranks as the third Bohemian LESSON DEPARTMENT city in the world. To the northwest are many Canadian-French, clannish in spite of their long residence in America." This place was fitted up with furniture to suit the style of the house, and in the year 1889 it was opened for its new use. 4. What Went on in Hull House. A Settlement, in the view of Jane Addams, serves two purposes. In the first place, it furnishes an outlet for the instinctive desire of young persons, who also have an education, to do something altruistic, as contradistinguished from what she calls "mental accumulation." In all such young persons there are (1) the desire to interpret democracy in social terms, (2) the impulse to aid in race progress, and (3) the urge to help the Christian movement toward humanitarianism. And then, in the second place, there are people in every large city?children, youth, even the old?who are suffering for want of guidance and assistance. The purpose of Hull House, on this line, is declared in its charter to be: "To promote a center for a higher civic and social life; to institute and maintain educational and philanthropic enterprises, and to investigate and improve the conditions in the industrial districts of Chicago." Thus Hull House stands for an attempt "to relieve, at the same time, the over-accumulation at one end of society and the destitution on the other." But it does this in the conviction that "the things which make men alike are finer and better than the things which keep them apart, and that these basic likenesses, if they are properly accentuated, easily transcend the less essential differences of race, language, creed, and tradition." One of the first things done in Hull House was to read aloud George Eliot's Romola to the young 129 people who gathered there, and it was apparently enjoyed more than one would imagine from the involved plot of that great story. A kindergarten was early established for the children of the neighborhood. Later reading facilities were provided for young and old, and the reading habit encouraged. Very early was seen the necessity of substituting for the saloon a hall in which might be held under wholesome conditions parties, wedding celebrations, and dances. Presently a coffee house and kitchen was opened, where dishes of proper nutritive values were prepared and sold at such prices as the neighborhood could afford. In addition, Hull House soon became the starting-point and center of social movements. It assisted "the labor movement by aiding the organization of trades unions among the more helpless workers; by investigations and agitation for improved factory inspection; by arbitration of one strike; by discussions in the Social Science Club of Working People." It was a resident of Hull House who secured the first public swimming pool in Chicago. When the Settlement work began there, fifteen years were to elapse before public parks and playgrounds came into existence in that city. Hence Miss Addams' group were pioneers in many activities looking to the public benefit, especially the benefit of the working classes. For the most part, the residents of Hull House were educated women. As already stated, Miss Addams held that one of the purposes of the Settlement was to furnish an outlet for the altruistic desires of the cultured classes. In Hull House, as in Toynbee Hall, university students and graduates found a ready channel *Social Settlements (Henderson), p. 52. 130 for the feeling that they ought to put their talents at the service of humanity. Indeed, in the Rockford college, Miss Addams' alma mater, classes were held for the purpose of giving its members such training and direction, during the summer months, as would prepare them for welfare work. "No university or college qualification," however, "has ever been made for residence, although the majority of residents have been college people." Even in the early years of Hull House there were as many as twenty-five residents, and of course this number increased as buildings were added to the original plan. 5. Growth of Settlements in America Hull House was not the first Settlement in the United States. The first Settlement was established in 1887, in New York City, two years before Miss Addams began her work in Chicago. Founded by James B. Reynolds, it was called the Neighborhood Guild at first, but in 1891 changed its name to the University Settlement. In 1891 also, the third Settlement in America was established in New York City. This same year another was established in West Chicago, and the following year the movement spread to Philadelphia and Boston. Subsequent years were to witness the Settlement idea grow till it covered every large city between the two oceans. Indeed, the movement seems destined to include the small town, for as Tolstoy says, "Wherever we may live, if we draw a circle around us of a hundred thousand, or a thousand, or even of ten miles circumference, and look at the lives of those men and women who are inside our circle, we shall find half-starved children, old people, pregnant women, sick and weak persons, working beyond their strength, who have neither food nor rest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE enough to support them, and who, for this reason, die before their time; we shall see others, full-grown, who are injured and needlessly killed by dangerous and hurtful tasks." Hull House, however, came to represent the best in Settlement work, not because it was one of the first two to be established in this country, but because it has had at its head for more than forty years "a woman of high intelligence, of exceptional insight into life, of rare wisdom, of sympathetic understanding, of strong character, and of steady devotion to the work of helping to establish social justice in the world. Miss Addams is internationally known, partly through her work in Hull House, and partly for her activities in behalf of universal peace. In every list of great women, regardless of whether it is made in America or in some other country, Jane Addams is always on the list. Recently the historian Beard, an authority on the history of American civilization, put her on his list of the greatest living personalities in the United States, because she had, he said, opened a new chapter in the social history of America. Class Discussion 1. A settlement, in the view of Jane Addams, furnishes an outlet for the instinctive desire of young persons to do something altruistic. Discuss the ways in our Church through which our young people may express their altruistic desires. Do you think we give them sufficient opportunity in this way? 2. In what way was Hull House the starting point and center of social movements? State the most important of these. 3. Why is Jane Addams accorded so high a place among the great women of the world? LESSON DEPARTMENT Mission Lessons LESSON VII. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING COMMON AILMENTS "The more one knows about the wisdom of the human body, the less one has to fear." HEADACHE COMMON ailments may have uncommon endings or complications, so they merit special consideration. Johnny's earache may end in a mastoid or brain abscess, and Mary's headache may be a sign of kidney disease. Headache is a much more common sign of kidney disease, than is ache or pain in the back. Headache is a symptom not a disease. It is a definite warning that something is wrong, and if possible it should be corrected. It is often the eyes. It may be the teeth or bad tonsils. Headache may be a reflex pain from stomach trouble, or a bad case of indigestion. Poor ventilation, especially where gas is burned, will cause headache. Fatigue will cause headache and other nervous disorders. Poisoning from carbon monoxide, or from lead or benzine, produce a severe headache... Since headache is only a symptom, in all cases, especially of repeated headaches, it is necessary to find the cause and remove it, rather than be satisfied with taking drugs for temporary relief. Headaches may be accompanied by dizziness with vomiting and a sick stomach. Such headaches have a tendency to appear periodically. They may occur every week or month, as the case may be. These headaches are known as migraine, and often begin early in life and extend through the years. Headache, then, is not a disease but a warning from nature that something is wrong and should be corrected. The treatment of headache is simple. If possible, remove the cause. Temporary relief may be obtained from a laxative, a hot foot bath and an ice bag to the head. Such remedies as aspirin, caffein or bromides are to be used in emergencies only. FAINTING Fainting, like headache, is only a symptom and not a disease, and it is the cause, rather than the act itself we are most interested in. Fainting is caused by the absence in the brain of the proper amount of blood. When a person faints the face is pale, the pulse rapid and feeble and the breathing quick and shallow. Fainting may be caused by fatigue or it may follow hemorrhage or it may be the first symptom of sun stroke. In other days when people were not so careful of their diet, fainting was more frequent than at present and was generally caused by Anemia. If a person in a crowd faints, get him out of the crowd as quickly as possible and stretch him out flat. His head should be lower than his feet ?in this way bringing the needed amount of blood back to the brain. Cold water over the face may help to revive a fainting man, but it is very poor practice to throw the water over the clothes as well as the face. Smelling salts are always good, a teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia on a handkerchief held over the nose of the individual will help. In all cases loosen the clothes of the patient and open the windows so that he can breathe. When the patient is conscious, give him a teaspoonful of aromatic spirits of ammonia in a quarter of a glass of cold water and keep him quiet until he has fully recovered. A fainting person is unconscious and to violently shake him and call his name is not only useless, but poor practice. BACKACHE Backache, like headache and fainting, is not a disease but rather one of nature's warning signals that something is wrong. Backache is such a common complaint and so many of us suffer from it that we are apt to overlook the cause, and be concerned only with the pain in the back. Backache is often caused from incorrect posture. People with weak feet and fallen arches can be cured of backache by properly caring for the feet. The muscles of the back are under constant strain and in industry people with a "stand up job" suffer a great deal with backache due to this continued muscle strain. It is important that clerks, and people working at machines should be provided with a convenience to rest their backs at repeated intervals. Muscles need rest, and a wise employer will see that his employees are provided with opportunities to relax and rest. Backache is sometimes caused by a slipping joint, following muscular strain. Such a kink in the back is referred to as lumbago, and can be just as painful as a broken leg. Pain in the back is never due to the pinching of nerve roots in the spinal column, as some advertising would have us believe. Backache has been caused by changing of shoes, from high to low heels. We must remember that sometimes when there is trouble in the pelvis, backache may be one of the first symptoms of which the individual complains. Backache, like headache and fainting may be due to fatigue. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In all cases of persistent backaches it is necessary to consult a physician and find the cause. Home remedies are sometimes helpful for backaches due to muscular strain or rheumatism. Oil of Wintergreen, or a good liniment, such as chloroform or belladonna may be rubbed over the painful area, and heat applied after. Indeed, heat seems to be one of the most soothing remedies in backache. Sometimes a turkish towel placed over the back, and ironed with a hot iron, furnishes temporary relief. The application of a belladonna plaster cut large enough to cover the area, may help. Again we must remember that backache is only a symptom and one of nature's warning signals that some disorder exists and should be corrected. HIVES Hives are a nettle-like rash. They consist of wheels or welts of all sizes and irregular forms. This skin rash resembles the bite of an insect. It itches intensely. Sometimes it spots the entire body, and it may appear and disappear at intervals. A single eruption has a raised white center, with a reddish base. Hives is a toxic or poisonous condition due to the effect of drugs or food. It is often caused by a hypodermic injection of serum or vaccine. Digestive disturbances due to eating shell-fish, oysters, or strawberries, have been complicated in certain susceptible individuals by hives. The treatment for this rather annoying, but never very dangerous, condition, is to find the cause and remove it. People who are constantly complaining of recurrent attacks of hives may find the cause in some simple article of food which seems to act as a poison to them. Once the condition is established the proper treatment is a purgative, such as a dose of Epsom Salts, to be followed by large quantities of water. The itching is very intense, and this discomfort can be relieved by sponging the body with a strong solution of Epsom Salts or Baking Soda. Sometimes relief can be obtained by using diluted vinegar as a body sponge. A very effective local measure against the intense burning and itching of the skin is to have the druggist add carbolic acid (two per cent) to the ordinary calomine lotion. Shake well, and rub freely over the irritated skin. Some cases of hives have been known to occur from the toxic effect of fear. In severe cases call the doctor. A hypodermic injection of adrenalin chloride may cause hives to disappear like magic. CONSTIPATION Constipation is probably the most common of all ailments. It is one of the penalties of our modern way of living. If we lived perfectly normal lives, constipation would be as infrequent as tuberculosis or pneumonia. Constipation results from the laziness of the Colon, or the large bowel. "The Colon is the sewerage system of the body, but by neglect and abuse it becomes the cess-pool. When it is clean we are well and happy; let it stagnate and the poisons of decay, fermentation and putrification enter the blood; it makes one mentally depressed, irritable, restless and physically inactive." Every organ of the body is affected by continued constipation. We look and feel old, the joints are stiff and painful?neuritis, dull eyes, and a sluggish brain overtake us; the pleasure of living is gone." The causes of constipation are legion. Irregularity of meals, overeating, eating too hastily and failure to eat the proper kind of food has 133 much to do with the condition. Modern diets contain too many "soft foods" such as pastry, potatoes and white bread, to promote proper bowel activity. The diet should consist largely of vegetables; carrots, spinach, squash, beans, peas, etc. Raw vegetables, raw fruit, dried fruit, honey, molasses, coarse bread and coarse cereals, are all laxative foods and have much to recommend them. Drink plenty of water upon rising, and during the day. The laxative habit and the enema habit are thought to be direct causes of constipation. Laxatives and enemas have their definite indications, but should be used only in cases of emergency. The diet is a very important part of the treatment of Constipation. The laxative foods enumerated above, may not be sufficient to correct the condition in which event a small amount of mineral oil may be taken over a short period of time. It acts only as a lubricant to the bowel. Japanese sea-weed, which is known as Agar Agar, is very beneficial. The dose is one tablespoonful at meal time, and is best given with liquids as milk or fruit juice. Massage of the abdomen, the proper amount of exercise, especially walking, swimming or horse-back riding, are all excellent methods of assisting in overcoming this condition. The establishment, early in life, of a habit time for the moving of the bowels, just after breakfast, and never to vary five minutes each day, is an important measure to save one from the evils of constipation in later life. We are so much the creatures of habit that this is a very important measure and should be cultivated. When constipation persists, consult a physician and follow faithfully the prescribed treatment, for the ill 134 effects of persistent constipation are sure and far reaching. APPENDICITIS Constipation is thought by many to be one of the contributing causes of appendicitis. Others are very sure that it is a result rather than a cause. Appendicitis is one of our common ailments, and now ranks as the second cause of death of the American people. Appendicitis may be described as an inflammatory condition of the appendix. Some people suffer several attacks and without help or treatment recover. Unfortunately this is not always the case. Sometimes the appendix breaks or ruptures and distributes infection over the rest of the abdominal organs and the dreaded condition of Peritonitis follows. A boil on the back of the neck that swells, breaks and discharges is not dangerous because of its location. Such an infection can do no damage to the protecting skin, but a ruptured appendix is a menace to life itself. There are certain definite and easily observed symptoms which accompany appendicitis?in the order of their appearance they are? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE First: Pain?colicky in nature and in the beginning it may be all over the abdomen, but soon becomes most pronounced in the lower right side. Second: Tenderness?which is pain caused by pressure, and is most marked in the lower right hand portion of the abdomen. Third: Nausea and vomiting ? these symptoms are not always present in the beginning, but become frequent as the disease progresses. Fourth: Fever?not a constant symptom, but as the disease advances, it is nearly always present. In some cases the temperature may be below normal throughout due to the shock of very severe infection. In all cases of doubtful appendicitis, for the symptoms are very similar to those of "green apple colic," it is necessary to call a doctor in order that the true condition may be ascertained. Laxatives and cathartics must not be given, even in doubtful cases. They may complete the rupture of the thin walled inflamed appendix. There is no medical treatment for appendicitis. The ice bag over the region will be helpful until the doctor arrives. Teachers' Topic (Published a month earlier than usual by special request) EASTER THE very foundation upon which we rear our glorious structure of Faith, the Gospel, is the Resurrection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. There has never been the universal appeal about the keeping of Easter there has been in the observance of Christmas, yet the two are so inter-related it is impossible to consider one without the other. The personality of the little Baby, and the picturesqueness of the manger-cradle lay instant hold upon the heart of humanity, but these would have been forgotten had the mouth of the Tomb remained sealed. "Christ, the Lord is born," was the first angel message of glad REPORTS ON MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS tidings, but it was incomplete without the second, equally sacred and sublime?"He is risen!" Historically, Easter is the festival of our Lord's Resurrection, and is one of the most joyous days observed by Christians. It corresponds with the "Feast of the Passover" of the Jews. It is really the great Feast of the Atonement; the last perfect fulfillment of the great law of Sacrifice. The "Easter Story" is most beautifully told in "The Fourth Gospel," and what a glorious radiance it casts on the whole world! One real, thoroughly authenticated resurrection lightens all the darkness of the ages. Men had been going down into death by the millions, and no one coming back. The mighty chasm of the grave had devoured nations and races for thousands of years. The immortality of the soul was generally believed, but no one knew the effect of death upon it. There was no light and men went shuddering 135 into the great unknown. The effect of death was shown in the glorious Resurrection of Christ, and the terrible burden was lifted. Easter always falls on the Sunday after the full moon, next after March twenty-first. The idea in fixing it by this standard was that Easter might always occur at the spring full moon, at which time, the first Easter, or Christ's Resurrection took place. It seems that great ecclesiastical controversies raged around the question of the actual day to be celebrated, and were finally settled only by the decree of the Council of Nicea, 325 A. D. By this decree it was fixed on the Sunday immediately following the fourteenth day of the Paschal moon, which happens at, or on, the first Sunday after the vernal equinox. Well may Easter be observed by all for we know the triumphant words, "He is Risen!" were the seal and climax of Christ's whole incarnation and work as Redeemer and Savior of the world! Reports on Magazine Subscriptions MRS. NELLIE P. ELZENGA has been the efficient Magazine Agent of Nibley Park Ward, Granite Stake, for nine years. She has worked very hard and met with great success. For two years now with a membership of 95, she has secured 110 Magazine subscriptions. She has taken eggs or any kind of produce and then sold these things in order to aid women to get the Magazine. She has also taken 10c or 25c at a time, adding to it as the would-be subscribers could, until the needed amount was secured. It is remarkable how many subscriptions she has secured among people whose dollars are very scarce. Utah Stake gave ten Magazine subscriptions as prizes in their drive. The 17th Ward, Mt. Ogden Stake, had 74 subscriptions at the beginning of the season and after the drive had 91, and the agents, Mattie K. Vogel increased the membership very materially by her visiting to get subscriptions. Mrs. Elsie Miller reports she took $7.00 worth of fruit and vegetables and did everything possible to have every member in her Ward have the Magazine. We present on the next page a picture of the women who presented the "Spirit of the Magazine" in her honor, because of the success she had won. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE STAKE PERCENTAGES Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Bear Lake 533 240 Deseret 608 320 Franklin 593 358 North Weber 806 386 Star Valley 435 231 Teton 368 194 Timpanogos 275 188 WARDS 100% OR OVER Ward Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Magazine Agent Bates Teton 14 14 100 Ruby Tanner Cedron Teton 76 76 100 Christina Dearing Linrose Franklin 95 95 100 Jeanette S. Barton Midvale 2nd Ward East Jordan 20 20 100 Cordelia Carver Nibley Park Granite 95 110 115 Nellie P. Elzenga Springfield Blackfoot 19 19 100 Alice A. Gardner Sterling Blackfoot 40 40 100 Ada M. Cordon Tuttle Blaine 14 14 100 Helen S. Walker Afton North Star Valley 80 26 130 Alice E. Allen Burley 1st Ward Burley 19 19 100 Bell Partridge Delta 1st Deseret 40 40 100 Name of Agent Fairview Star Valley Delecta Burton Franklin Franklin Sylvia Barlow Lindon Timpanogos Erma Works Mapleton Franklin Izora Hoopes Pleasant Grove 3d Timpanogos Alice Oliverson, Rose Hawks Preston 5th Ward Franklin Annie Stone Providence 1st Logan Azuba G. Alder Richfield 2d Sevier Lunetta R. Chugg Slaterville North Weber Flora Magleby Thayne Star Valley Sylvia S. Knight Windsor Timpanogos Eliese Roberts WARDS 75% OR OVER Ward Stake Enrollment No. Sub. Percent Name of Agent 136 SPIRIT OF THE MAGAZINE, PRESENTED BY PROVO FOURTH WARD Ward Stake "I will study and prepare myself, and some day my chance will come." Lincoln did not idle away the precious years of his youth, waiting for "something to come along." With faith in himself and confidence in the future, he prepared for a life of responsibility. In America's hour of need, he became the Man of Destiny. OPPORTUNITIES COME TO THOSE WHO ARE PREPARED! EVERY DAY IS REGISTRATION DAY L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE (A Department of L. D. S. College) 70 No. Main Salt Lake City Was. 1812 Now is the Time to gather together your last year's issues of the Relief Society Magazine and preserve permanently the valuable material they contain by having us bind them durably and attractively in black gold-stamped cloth. Price $1.50 per volume Special rates for quantities The Deseret News Press PIONEER BINDERS. PRINTERS, RULERS MUSIC PRINTERS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine YOU CAN'T GO WRONG If You Insist on Beneficial Life Insurance Of Safety?Success IF IT'S A BENEFICIAL POLICY IT'S THE BEST INSURANCE YOU CAN BUY. INSURANCE. Home Office 254 COMPANY Salt Lake City OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS J. REUBEN CLARK, JR.. FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT AXEL B. C. OHLSON. SECRETARY JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH ORVAL W. ADAMS E. T. RALPHS STEPHEN L. CHIPMAN HEBER J. GRANT. PRESIDENT DAVID O. MCKAY, SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT GEORGE J. CANNON, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT LEO E. PENROSE, ASSISTANT SECRETARY MARCH 1935