Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) LESSON VII GEMS OF TRUTH 1. Those Who Serve the Lord. Here is great comfort for those who serve the Lord: "Let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprighily, and to the sanctification of the church." (D. And C. 100:15.) It is frequently said that rain falls on the just and the unjust alike, and that sorrow visits the homes of both those who serve the Lord and those who do not. Let it be admitted that there is at least partial truth in the statement. The just, however, have the assurance that all things will work together for their good, while the unjust have no hope of reward. 2. The Lord has said: "Whom I love I also chasten that their sins may be forgiven, for with the chastisement I prepare a way for their deliverance in all things out of temptation." (D. And C. 95:1.) Again: "They who suffer persecution for my name, and endure in faith, though they are called to lay down thew lives for my sake yet shall they partake of all this glory." (D. And C. 101:35.) But: "Those who will not endure chastening, but deny me, cannot be sanctified." (D. And C. 101:5.) 3. God's promises never fail. There are untold numbers of Latterday Saints who testify that adversity has often been a source of great blessing to them, and that trying conditions often prove to be a source of strength. Great comfort arises from the belief that no matter how dark the hour, or distressing the circumstance, God will bring all things together for the benefit of those who love him. There is probably no greater source of solace in times of trial. 4, Lives unattended by sorrow are like photographs taken in the full glare of the sun,?flat and characterless. In a beautiful life, like a beautiful photograph, the high lights are accentuated by shadows. 5. Leave Judgment with the Lord. Many people are prone to pass judgment. Almost without restraint they discuss the merits and demerits, particularly the latter, of others about whom they commonly know but little. Judgments are usually unjust and often injurious both to the judged and to those who sit in judgment. 6. It is evident without argument that fair judgments cannot be rendered in the absence of full knowledge of all facts in the case. In civil court procedure judgments are deferred until both sides to the controversy have been given ample opportunity to present whatever evidence appears to be relevant. After this has been done the evidence is fully weighed, and only then is the verdict rendered. Judges of civil courts are chosen primarily because of their supposed wisdom, fairness, and ability to differentiate between proper and improper conduct. But even under such conditions, errors in judgment are not unknown. 7. Little wonder then that judgment LESSON DEPARTMENT rendered in the absence of full information, particularly if influenced by bias and envy, are characteristically wrong. The Latter-day Saints are warned against conduct of this nature. The Lord says: "Leave judgment alone with me, for it is mine and I will repay." (D. And ome ZS:23.) 8. Spirit and Element. There is much food for thought in the following: "Man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; and when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy.' (D. And C. 93:33, 34.) 9. The first statement, namely, that man is a spirit, should answer once and for all time the muted question among certain materialistic investigators?both scientific and religious?as to whether or not man ig more than merely a physical being, actuated solely by mechanical impulses and entirely devoid of spiritual stimuli. Elsewhere the Lord has said that "The spirit and the body are the soul of man." (D. And C. 88:15.) That mortal man is a dual person?composed of both body and spirit?it is thus plainly evident. The Lord makes the further illuminating statement: "All spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes; we cannot see it; but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter."" (D. And C. 131:7, 8.) 10. The statement that: "The elements are eternal" answers all questions as to the ultimate duration of what is commonly called matter, although, of course, it does not describe its nature or composition. 11. Finally, the quoted statement goes on to say that man can receive a fulness of joy only when the spirit and the body are inseparably connected. It is little wonder that the resurrection from the dead is spoken In of as the redemption. (See D. And C. 88:16-19.) 12. Knowledge and Intelligence. In bold contrast with the widespread sectarian notion that in the next world men will be placed in two classes?the saved and the damned? the Lord gives the following: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." (D. And C. 130:18, 19.) 13. Justice, of course, demands just such a provision. It would be manifestly unfair if devout individuals who had exhibited a life-long devotion to the Lord should receive no more reward in the resurrection than those who had been scarcely less than indifferent. Fairness demands that all forms of industry be commensurately rewarded. That men be rewarded in conformity with their deeds is in strict accord with every law of the universe, wherein causes are invariably followed by similar and compensating effects. Anything short of this would be a violation of the fundamental principles of right and justice. 14. Moreover, if men were to be separated into only two classes in the resurrection, and particularly if the doctrine of unmerited rewards were to apply, a considerable part of the incentive for right living would disappear from the earth. While it is theoretically true that men should live Christian lives merely for the reason that to do so is right, yet incentive is. A powerful factor in human conduct. Very few individuals would attempt to climb a mountain if it were not believed that a more comprehensive view would be obtained by so doing. Likewise, few students 118 would undergo the requirements of a long period of college training if it were not believed that benefits would accrue therefrom. Human efforts are prompted principally by hope of reward; destroy this hope, and effort would largely disappear. The ill effects of such a condition are immeasurable. The above statement, therefore, like all others emanating from the same source, is in strict accord with the wisdom, justice, and love of God for the human soul. 15. Blessings Predicated upon Obedience to Law. Perhaps no statement in Mormion theology more fully illustrates the wisdom of God in dealing with his children than the following, given to Joseph Smith slightly more than one year before the time of his martyrdom: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of the world, upon which all blessings are predicated?And when we obtain any blessings from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. And C. 130:20, 21.) Some three months later, the Lord restated the same truth in the following language: "All who will have a blessing at my hands shail abide the law which was appointed for the blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted before the foundation of the world." (D. And C. 132:5.) 16. These statements, perhaps above all others in Christian scripture, emphasize the basic importance of right living. On the other hand, they negate for all time the widespread sectarian belief that endless blessings await those who merely call upon the name of God and accept Jesus Christ as the Savior of the world. The fact is that before man can receive any blessing his conduct must conform with the law upon which it is predicated. Accordingly, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE there is no such thing as blessing incommensurate with conduct. As Deity has stated, this condition is not only irrevocable but was instituted before the foundations of the world. 17. Those of the Latter-day Saints who hope to find place in the Celestial glory should ponder carefully the following: "For he who is not able to abide the law of the celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory." (D. And C. 88:22.) Plainly, therefore, those who enter this glory must have shown by their works that they are prepared to live it. What shall become of those who for example, have not brought themselves to conform with such elemental principles as the Word of Wisdom, the Law of Tithing, and the observance of the Sabbath Day, we of course, must not judge. The Lord has declared, however, that all blessings are predicated upon compliance with the laws that produce them. Moreover, the Lord has said that there is no escape from this truth;?it is irrevocable. 18. Should We Forget. The Lord might have had the present conditions in mind when he uttered the following: '"Who am I that made man, saith the Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments. Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled, I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing. Then they say in their hearts: This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled.' (D. And C. 58:30-33.) 19. Only recently the writer of this article sat at a dinner table with a formerly active member of the Church. Almost from the outset he offered criticism of the First Presidency and other officials of the Church. He declared himself in favor of the widespread sale of alLESSON DEPARTMENT coholic beverages and admitted that he himself occasionally indulged in them. Later in the meal he drank freely of strong coffee and firmly announced his belief that the Church has no right to interfere with "personal habits" of its members. 20. His, like many others, was a clear case. He had evidently failed to heed the counsel of the Lord and then had turned to criticism thereof. He was evidently not acquainted with the scripture quoted above, nor with the following: "J the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do n?t what. I say, ve have no promise." (D. And C. 82:10.) 21. The following is a pathetic reminder, if not a rebuke, to those who forget the Lord in times of prosperity and well-being: "In the day of their peace they esteemed lightly my counsel; but, in the day of their trouble, of necessity they feel after me.' Then with characteristic sympathy for those who stray from the path of rectitude, the Lord continues: "Notwithstanding their sins, my bowels are filled with compassion towards them. I will not utterly 119 cast them off; and in the day of wrath I will remember mercy." (D. And C. 101:8, 9.) Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Have members of the class relate personal experiences in which apparently undesirable conditions have eventually worked together for their good. 2. In what way is rendering of judgment often injurious to those who judge? Why should judgment be left with the Lord? 3. Why in your opinion is it impossible for the spirit of man to receive a fulness of joy without the body? 4, In what way has the sectarian doctrine of unmerited rewards injured the cause of Christianity? 5. In what ways are incentives conducive to good conduct? Give illustrations. 6. Why is it necessary that law must be obeyed before the blessing is received? 7. Why does infraction of law lead to criticism thereof? Teachers' Topic THE RELIEF SOCIETY "CHARITY NEVER FAILETH"' Day in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. True it is neither a national nor a state holiday, but by common consent among the officers and members of the Relief Society, it has become a day of remembrance in all the branches of the Church, therefore it signifies a special day in many parts of the world to the Latter-day Saint women. The Relief Society was organized March 17, 1842, by the Prophet JosM ARCH 17th is Relief Society eph Smith in Nauvoo, Illinois. There were present a group of eighteen women who are known as Charter Members, and whose names are held in reverence by the members of the Society. At the first meeting the Prophet gave instructions how to carry out the great work designed for the mature women of the Church as revealed through him. The great comprehensive program now carried on by the Relief Society for the benefit of humanity, 120 and educational progress for its members, is the development of the fundamental principles enunciated by Joseph Smith, the Prophet, on the occasion of the organization on March seventeen, 1842. The objects of the Society were "to care for the poor, minister to the sick, and to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." The day is celebrated in various forms of social entertainment according to the desires and conditions RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE of the several wards or branches. There may be reunions, parties, dramatic or literary entertainment, pageants or banquets, but it is a day rather of remembrance than for gain, and in some way usually has an historical significance. At the time of the organization, March 17, 1842, so far as known there were no women's organizations of so broad and comprehensive a program so the words of the Prophet, "I now turn the key for women," has a deep and powerful significance. Literature (Third Week in April) LIFE AND LITERATURE Topay's DRAMA "All the world's a stage, and. All the men and women merely players; they have their exits and their entrances; and one man in his time plays many parts."?S hakespeare. RT is a world of Man's makA ing. In art man has found an outlet. The expression of the artist is the adjustment of man to that tension called life. The great art of the ages is drama. Man is a traveler on a shadowed road. In his unfolding both the individual and the universal are revealed. Every man is a hero and. Every life-story is a drama. Hence human life and human destiny are the materials of the great art, drama. Art is a continual revelation of Life. To every observer with a trained vision comes the joy of understanding. "It is by art and by religion men have always sought rest." The Story of the Theatre Literature has been defined as a "criticism of life." Drama is more than a criticism, it is an interpretation; also it is a vision of what life might be at its best. Wherever human beings strive and suffer there is drama. It -has been persistently claimed that the basis of all art is religion; in the case of drama the truth is well established. From every corner of the earth comes the evidence that dancing and music have had their place in primitive religious ceremonials. Different forms and varying stages of development have been discovered, but the spirit ls the same. It is likewise revealed that the Hebrews and the Egyptians developed little dramatic expression while the Greeks, Hindus, Chinese, and Japanese developed elaborate and intricate theatrical systems. In primitive drama, love, hatred, food-getting, initiation and sacrifice were the chief motifs; the lines of heroic and mythical ancestors furnished the stories } the action was in the nature of a spectacle; and the overpowering seriousness made its expression tragic. 'The comic spirit entered LESSON DEPARTMENT dramatic art when the spectacle becaine detached from a religious ceremonial and took the form of a revel (comus-revel). Literary expression, intensity of thought, mechanical equipment, and organization, have developed the art of the theatre to its present perfection, yet for beauty, effectiveness, and impressiveness primitive drama is often found to be superior to the drama of culture. The origin of Greek drama was in the ceremonial worship of Dionysius (dio ni' sus). A combination of song and dance formed the early festivals held in honor of this god. For the great spring festival visitors came to Athens from all parts of Greece. The semi-circular seats on the hillside leading up to the Acropolis could accommodate almost twenty thousand people. About the middle of the sixth century B. C., Thespis, the leaders of the chorus, dressed himself as Dionysius and made the chorus acts as-followers. This first impersonation in ceremonial led to rapid dramatic development. Aeschylus (es ki' lus) 525456 B. C., the first great dramatist added a second character, thus using dialogue independent of the chorus. Sophocles (sof o klez) 495-406 B. C., added a third character in his dramas. Competition added a great impetus to the art when great honors were bestowed upon the successful dramatists. Aeschylus is said to have won thirteen contests and Sophocles twenty. The stage evolved from the original sacrificial altar. Masks were used to simulate character, later they were equipped with small megaphones in the mouthpiece to project the voice. The actors, all men, took great care in the training of the voice. The chorus took the place of action in the drama, announcing any change in time, place, or action. The themes were taken from the old hero tales so dear to 121 the Greek race. The theatre grew in two centuries to be an important institution in Greek life. With the advent of the three great tragic poets, Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides (u rip' i dez) Greek tragedy reached its highest point. In comedy Aristophanes (ar is tof' a nez) and Menander brought a criticism of the life of the times by satire, banter, burlesque and humor to the festivals. The Greeks loved their great plays. The torch of Greek drama passed to the hands of the Romans as they became conquerors. The Romans developed a form of drama reflecting the temperament of the race. The Greeks were artists and dreamers while the Romans were fighters and men of action. The revel became a thrilling spectacle which in turn became the forerunner of modern vaudeville including monologue, dialogue, and song. The Romans also were the originators of the circus. Their theatres were also arenas where gladiatorial combats, races, and gymnastics were presented with popular approval. At the advent of Christianity, the drama had become so degraded that all performances were prohibited by Constantine, the converted emperor. For nearly a thousand years the dramatic spirit remained silent in Europe. English drama began in the Middle Ages when the church introduced into its services a ritual of illustration. Scenes from the Bible appropriate to the Christmas and Easter services were first used. These presentations known as mystery plays performed by the priests became very popular. Later the ceremony was removed to the steps of the church to accommodate a larger audience. Again it was removed to the village common. When the play left the confines of the church the acting was taken over by laymen. 122 From this point the development of English drama was very rapid. The mystery play was so called because it portrayed the mystery of the life of Christ. The Miracle play came into existence as a presentation of the life of a saint or a martyr. Another type of play, the Morality, was a presentation of a story containing an abstract truth or a life-lesson. The saints were superseded by historical characters, and short comedy scenes or interludes were interposed between the serious episodes. The play became in time secular. The scenes were mounted upon movable stages and drawn through the streets. Companies of strolling players traveled through the country giving performances in the courtyards of inns and on the village commons. The advance of the drama during the Elizabethan period is associated with Shakespeare and his contemporaries. The portrayal of human character through an understanding of human frailties and nobility; the sweep of imagination, and a new poetic form, blank verse, were new characteristics. Shakespeare is the undying glory of England. It is he who made England and all English speaking countries lovers of the play. English drama, however, declined during the next two centuries, the interest in poetry and fiction being paramount. Tury English drama took on renewed life until today it is assuming again its great role. It is generally agreed that "modern drama" began with Henrik Ibsen. Ibsen stands at the turnstile of yesterday and tomorrow. Ibsen has changed forever the dramatic map of Europe. All of our modern drama is the brain of Ibsen grafted on another land. Suderman and Hauptmann (haupt'man) in Germany, Schnitzler in Austria, D'Annunzio (dan noon'tsi o) in Italy, Late in the nineteenth century. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Shaw in England and O'Neil in America are among his greatest followers. The individual takes his place in modern drama to preach the gospel of individualism. Traditionally, the serious drama dealt with the transgression of an immutable moral law.. Ibsen saw human tragedy as man's failure to achieve peace with his universe?a social order dominated by outworn custom, unjust law, inherited instinct, and malevolent circumstance. His plays are a fearless disclosure of social evils. Ibsen's characters are ordinary people in contrast to the gods, kings, and princes of the older dramatists. His characters seen at a crisis make an unforgettable impression upon an audience. The content of Ibsen's work demands that thinking people look at the larger wrongs, problems, and possibilities in life. In our own day the greatest dramatic figures, Maeterlinck (ma'ter link), Tolstoy (tol'stol), Galsworthy, Yeats (yats or yets), and others have by their definite ideals and their splendid genius steered the drama through the struggles of commercialism to its rightful place as a great art. It is a long span of years from the time that a Greek audience of twenty thousand spectators watched the soul struggles of Prometheus chained to a mountain defying Jupiter, or viewed with awe the Antigone of Sophocles stand in si'lence awaiting the judgment of Creon in answer to her defiance, that of bestowing the right of burial upon her dead brother, to Maeterlinck's Pelleas (pell'e as) and Melisande. Standing upright struggling to understand their love, and D'Annunzio's Giaconda (ge a con'da) having sacrificed her beautiful hands to save her husband's masterpiece still facing life without his love. Many soul cries have been recorded in-the interim. "Human nature and human LESSON DEPARTMENT destiny are the two mysteries that the drama endeavors to reveal," says Hebbel, the German author. Drama as such becomes a mirror of life recording the processes by which human intelligence acquires identity. Ancient and medieval drama made the spectator an onlooker of the sufferings of man; modern drama makes the spectator a part of the drama as Bernard Shaw says, "We are not feathered spectators, but guilty creatures sitting at a play." Dean Inge pleads that "the stage of today must of necessity become the pulpit of the world." Time has taken great liberties with the actor, the author, the theatre, and the dramatic form, but with the materials there is little change, because they are the materials of life which remain unchanged during the ages. Everyman, A Morality Play The best of the Morality plays which have come down to us is "Everyman," a beautiful interpretation of the meaning of life. The Morality play was a development of medieval English drama intended to teach the beauty of goodness and the punishment of-sin. 'These plays were allegorical, that is, the characters were personifications of virtues and vices such as Charity, Pride, Truth, Falsehood. Curiously enough professional companies have revived the play, "Everyman," and carried it through many countries including England and America in the past few years. The revival made a profound impression upon all who saw it, the reason being that the play appeals to man's deep and universal instincts and feelings. "Everyman" is supposed to have been written by one Peter Diestenes, a Hollander, who lived near the end of the fifteenth century. The play is based upon a Buddhist parable which is as follows: A rich man 25 had three friends. When his king demanded money as the payment of a debt, the man went to his friends for aid. Two of his friends with polite excuses refused the request. The third friend came to his aid and pleaded for mercy at the hands of the king. The meaning of the parable is this: the first friend was the rich man's personal property; the second his worldly companions; the 'third was his own good deeds?charity, human kindness, love: "The best portion of a good man's life, His little, nameless, unremembered ~ acts of kindness and of love." The action of the play begins much the same as "Job" and "Faust" with a prologue in heaven. God reflects upon the moral condition of the world and the general activities of mankind. He sees men living on earth with no other thought than the satisfaction of their appetites, passions, and desires. Their chief quest is worldly things. Life has become a vain show. Death, God's messenger is sent to bring Everyman to his reckoning. As the messenger receives his instructions Everyman saunters on the stage. He is joyous youth, full of smiles. And gaily clad. Death accosts him, "Everyman stand still; whither art thou going thus gaily? Hast thou thy Maker forgotten?" Everyman in fear, asks for time promising much gold if but a day of respite is granted: Death is relentless and will grant no respite for gold. Only one concession is granted. Everyman is given time to find one of his friends to accompany him on his journey. Everyman seeks his greatest friend, Fellowship. This friend when approached will do any earthly task for Everyman but he will not take a journey to Eternity with him. Everyman seeks other friends to aid him, Wealth 124 whom he has loved so dearly, declines also. One by one the worldly friends decline to help Everyman. Finally, he bethinks him of a once dear friend, Good Deeds. Good Deeds is in the form of a maiden, she appears to be weak and much neglected. She offers Everyman her counsel. She calls her sister, Knowledge, to guide him. Knowledge is a radiant figure representing the light of the mind. Everyman allows" himself to be led by Knowledge to confession, where in humility he seeks cleansing in acknowledgment of his wrong-doing.. His gay apparel is replaced by sackcloth. A sense of confidence comes to Everyman. Good Deeds accepts the penitent and offers to accompany him on his journey. Knowledge further advises Everyman to summon Discretion, Strength, and Beauty, and his five wits to prepare him for his last hour. They come to his aid and give him courage. Having performed their service they leave us as they cannot enter the grave. Knowledge goes within the shadow of the grave and then withdraws. Everyman is not alone, Good Deeds is present; she goes down into the tomb with him because she is part of himself, she is his better self, and will remain with him forever. The distant chanting of angels is heard on some approaching shore. Everyman goes to the reckoning and the Book of Life registers the judgment the soul has brought upon itself. It seems unnecessary to add any comment on this old Morality play, but the analysis of a sympathetic critic, Ramsden Balmforth, is enlightening: "It is true to Nature and what we believe to be behind Nature. It will give rise to a multitude of thoughts and speculations concerning the mystery of Life, sin, the will, endowment, the limitation of capacities, the light within, the meaning of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of temptation, eternity, God? all these things crowd upon the mind as we see or read this old Morality." The Irish National Theatre One of the most interesting modern dramatic movements is the establishment of the Irish National ThePart of an interesting national revival by Irish literary figures in an attempt to strengthen a national consciousness, it has revived almost forgotten legends of ancient Ireland, and pictured the peasant life with its charm, merriment, and inherent tragedy. William Butler -Yeats is the prime mover in this revival. Since 1904 the Irish National Theatre has produced plays by internationally known writers such as Yeats, Lady Gregory, Padriac Colum, and St. John Errins. The most powerful playwright of the new theatre was John Millington Synge. After completing his education at Trinity College, Dublin, he traveled on foot through France, Bavaria, Germany, and Italy. Upon his return to his native land, Yeats suggested, "Go to the Aran Islands. Live there as if you were one of the people; express a life that has never known expression." Among the primitive fisherfolk still using the original tongue of Erin, Synge found the materials for his genius to produce the finest poetic dramas in Irish literature. ?In the shadow of the Glen," 'Riders of the Sea," are one-act plays. A comedy, "The Playboy of the Western World," won wide recognition for its imagery and characterizations. "Deirdre of the Sorrows" is from the world of Irish legend, Dierdre, the Helen of Ireland, is here portrayed in the story of her deathless love. Note: The lesson, "Irish National Poetry," in the Relief Society Journal of April, 1933, provides a backLESSON DEPARTMENT ground for the study of the Irish Theatre. Suggestion: If it is deemed advisable one of the Irish plays could be used in the lesson. 'The following Irish plays have much of delight in them. "The Lost Silk Hat,'' Lord Dunsarry. "The Gods of the Lord Dunsarry. "The Land of the Heart's Desire," William Butler Yeats. "The Rising of the Moon," Lady Gregory. Mountain," Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature, Macy. 2. The Story of the Theatre, Hughes. 3. "Everyman'?This play can be procured in the "Little Blue 125 Book"' series at a small cost from "Haldeman-Julius Co., Kansas City. 4. Relief Society Journal, April, 1933. Lesson?Irish National Poetry. B. Program: 1. Music: "Melisande" from and Melisande." 2. Discussion: a. The Story of the Theatre. B. The Place of the Theatre in Modern Life. 3. Review: a. "Everyman" or b. One-act play?Irish Plays. C. Objective: As the theatre is an important institution in modern life an understanding of its history and the scope of drama should be interesting and stimulating. It is not intended to make a critical study. "Pelleas Social Service (Fourth Week in April) JANE ADDAMS AND 1. The Beginnings of Settlement W ork. In the year 1867 a young man of wealth, an Oxford graduate, called on the Reverend John R. Green, later to be the most popular English historian, and offered his personal services. Greatly surprised at so unusual an offer, Mr. Green nevertheless accepted the proffered aid. Accordingly the stranger took up his residence among the poor of this part of London. His name was Edward Denison, and Mr. Green was then the vicar of St. Phillips, Stepney, London. The inspiration for this self-sacrifice on the part of Denison, as the world has come to look upon it, SETTLEMENT WORK came, it appears, from the University circles. In those days there were connected in one way or another with Oxford several men of exceptional talent and exceptional. Interest in social questions?Ruskin, for instance, and Kingsley, and Maurice. Besides being greatly interested in the condition of poor people, these men sought to enlist the interest of others, particularly of young men. "In thought," said the compassionate Ruskin, "I have not yet abandoned all expectation of a better world than this. I believe this in which we live is not so good as it might be. I know there are many who think the atmosphere of rebellion and misery which wraps 126 the lower orders of Europe every day, is as natural a phenomenon as a hot summer. But God forbid!" And he importuned his hearers and readers to "'act like men," and help to make a new and better world! It was under the impulse of such appeals to action as this that young Denison formed his resolution to help the poor. The spirit in which he worked is indicated in these words: "Would indeed," he says, "that we could have some real Christianity taught... Taught?but in the way our Founder taught it, by living it. That is the only way. Those who would teach must live among those who are to be taught." In another letter he tells of his work: "Just now I only teach a night school, and do what in me lies in looking after the sick, seeing that the local authorities keep up to their work. I go tomorrow before the board at the workhouse to compel the removal to the infirmary of a man who ought to have been there already. I shall drive the sanitary inspector to put the Act against overcrowding in force, with regard to some houses in which there have been as many as eight and ten bodies occupying one room." Other university students took up the cry for better conditions in the London slums, through taking up residence among them. These was Arnold Toynbee, a brilliant young Oxonian, who offered his services to the Reverend Samuel A. Barnett, a clergyman resident in Whitechapel, vicar of St. Jude's, in London. Barnett had been to Oxford, where he had delivered an address on the conditions of the poor, which he had seen with his own eyes. It thoroughly aroused a group of young men, including Toynbee, over what Ruskin termed the making of a better world in which to live. Barnett,  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE before actively taking up the ministry, had served an apprenticeship with Octavia Hill. He therefore could speak with knowledge of the poor in London, both as to their condition and the way in which they might best be helped. When Toynbee Hall was established in 1884, Cannon Barnett became its first warden. With respect to his work in the settlement there it is said' that "there is scarcely any modern movement for social betterment?health, visitation, slum clearance, old age pensions, city planning, workers' education?which was not anticipated by Barnett's plans and work." 2. Details of Miss Addams' Life. Like Octavia Hill's interest in human welfare work, the interest of Jane Addams finds its roots in her early environment. Walking with her father once, when she was a child, and seeing for the first time "the poverty which means squalor," she inquired of him why people lived in such horrid little houses, and declared with much firmness that when she grew up she should of course have a large house, but that it would not be built among other large houses, but right in the midst of horrid little houses like these. Her father was an unusual man, it seems. All her early impressions, she says,' were directly connected with him. The following incident is revealing, not only of the father's character, but also of the daughter's. After Hull House had been established, Miss Addams began agitating for some sweat shop laws. She "was told by the representatives of an informal association of manufacturers that if the residents of Hull House would drop this non Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences. Twenty Years in Hull House (Jane Addams), p. 1. LESSON DEPARTMENT sense about a sweat shop bill, of which they knew nothing, certain business men would agree to give fifty thousand dollars within two years to be used for any of the philanthropic activities of the Settlement." When it gradually dawned upon her that she was being offered. A bribe, her "shame was enormously increased" on recalling what the editor of a great Chicago paper had said, in 1881 when her father died, that he personally knew "this one man who had neve