Cr 8 Houses By Harrison R. Merrill HAVEN'T any idea when the first houses were built or how they came to be built. I suspect that some chap away back when grass, fibre and skin skirts had first replaced fig leaves as the fashion, became strong enough to remain in one place for a week or two decided to build a permanent residence. Perhaps he was big, or perhaps he had reared some heavy-shouldered sons to help at the barricade. Since man began in a friendly climate, it is not likely that he had to build as protection against the weather, unless it was against the rain. In that case a few banana leaves and fronds of palms would have been sufficient. But this is not a history of houses. I merely wish to say a few words about them. MAN evidently learned to build houses very slowly, for even now, in these modern times, he doesn't exhibit a great deal of intelligence. He is a bit better than a mourning dove, but not quite as good as a magpie at building his nest. It seems that man is a vain creature. I have often wished I might know what a peacock or an owl thinks in order that I might see whether they, too, speculate upon what their neighbors are saying of them. At any rate, it seems to me that man has built a house covered with ginger bread and ornamental doors and windows in order that his neighbors and even the strangers when they pass might wonder at it. Of course, in primitive societies, each man built his own house. Later he paid little attention to outside elevations or inside comfort. With from a hundred and fifty to six hundred dollars with which to build, a man cannot allow his heart to get too set upon something beautiful or fine. Usually our pioneer friend in any country merely attempted to provide shelter from the rain and a bit of protection against the cold. The number of rooms was determined by his pocket book, not by his necessity. He usually was unable to think beyond the barest of walls and the plainest of openings. But even wealthy men have been slow to learn how to build good homes. It is true that architects did study form and materials and have long been able to build something beautiful upon the outside, but not until recently has the capacity to think in terms of comfort been developed. Only yesterday architects and those who could really afford to build houses thought first of parlor, sitting room, dining room, and bed rooms rather than of bath room, toilet, and kitchen. Then they built the parlor—which was never used— first; now they build the kitchen and bath room first and add whatever the purse will allow. Only yesterday folks had cupboards, safes, and wardrobes; now they have built-in cabinets, bins, and closets. It took man thousands of years to learn to put the keyhole above the knob instead of below it, and some of them haven't even learned that. AN has been stylish with his houses, especially here in the west. If his neighbor built a twostory, he followed; if a bungalow HOUSES 77 was built in a town, soon all the new houses seemed to be bungalows. No one, not even the architects, stopped to think long about whether a bungalow is a good type for this country, or whether its style matches our mountains. If bungalows are the style, then by gum, everybody must have a bungalow. I think our square blocks have been partly to blame for this deadly sameness. There are those who praise a square-blocked city highly, but I'm not of them. I like a town built according to no set rule, and the same goes for the houses. In our town we had but one hollow and when the concrete sidewalks were made, we filled it up, placing the city upon a dead and deadly level. I was shocked and delighted upon a trip not. So long ago to the east where in a half day's ramble along some informal streets I did not find two houses which remotely resembled each other, except that they all had shingles on the roof. No two had provided the same sized front yard. I remember in our town every house had to sit "four square to every wind that blew" and a fellow was just off his trolley if he made his lawn ten feet longer than that of his neighbor. The coming of electric lights and plumbing systems made a tremendous difference in the houses. When one by touching a swicth could make the sun shine at noon or midnight in the darkest closets, then closets could become something more than a place in which to lose things. I am told that roofs in a mountainous country like ours, from an artistic viewpoint, ought to be pointed and that gabled houses are best. Yet when that Spanish rage struck us sometime ago, I remember an architect friend of mine built a huge square building with a flat roof. It worked fine until the first winter when ice and snow melting and thawing in the drains clogged them while water painted frescoes on the hard surfaced walls of the building. Flat roofs for flat countries where there is no winter; pointed roofs to match these peaks. VENTILATION REMAINS an unsolved problem until we can obtain electric power at something like the figure we ought to have it. In the past no attempt was made to provide for air except through windows and doors. Most of our ancestors had come from Europe where thrifty people had even stuffed rags in the keyholes in order to preserve their expensive heat, preferring tuberculosis to coal bills. Here we threw away the thermometers and stuffed the stoves until centralized heating plants, stokers, and gas furnaces relieved us. Tomorrow we shall build houses with double glass windows fitted so tightly that not a breath of air can wriggle through. That will be when each of us can afford an air conditioner and can have our air washed and heated or cooled as the season demands. In those days we shall use humidifiers and keep not only the temperature but the moisture at the point we find most comfortable and healthful. Season will be found only on the outside, never on the inside of our buildings. In those days there will be no summer and winter clothing except outer wraps. Pavements and vacuum cleaners have done away with the old time scraper and spring cleaning by means of clubs and brooms. But tomorrow, the air conditioning plant will furnish the air for the family and the tight windows and doors will eliminate most of the dust. Yesterday grandfather, and even father, built his bedroom about as he built any other. The windows  J. B. FAIRBANKS, VETERAN UTAH ARTIST In front of his studio—a made-over coal-shed came down to the regulation distance above the floor. Any other distance would have been scandalous. The rooms were built as if, upon occasion, the entire family with the accumulated in-laws could be accommodated in the one room. Tomorrow the bedroom will be small and beautiful with a bath and toilet, a closet and a built-in chiffonier. Some homes will have their room so arranged that the bed may be wheeled out onto a screen porch by means of an electric or mechanical mechanism and back again in time for those using it to dress in comfort. HOUSES A FEW years ago somebody came forth with the suggestion that our next houses are to be of glass and steel. The lumber interests must have choked off those suggestions, but welcome the day when houses may be built for less or when we may have more with which to construct them. With the return of prosperity a new building program will get under way. Architects and artists should, during these lean years, be dreaming new dreams and scheming new schemes with good, old-fashioned comfort as the central motive and with beauty a close second. Avard Fairbanks went down to his father's home in Salt Lake City and designed a roof for the coal shed. The resulting building was so beautiful that his father, J. B. Fairbanks, moved in to it and used it as his studio. WE all need more training in architecture. Perhaps I have a wrong idea of what is beautiful and fine, but unless my eyes deceive me, our towns are not good to look at, in the main, and are getting worse. I have no brief for architects, but I have long been of the opinion that the lumber-yard, hand-me-down, job-lot houses have been bad for our communities. Everybody who has ever built a house, I presume, has thought before he started that he had the thing planned to the inch from garret to cellar and vice-versa only to find before the paint got dry that he had to make some changes in order to be perfectly happy. Next to building new houses, making over old ones is the most fun. Everybody should have a go at it sometime. When we get those glass and iron structures, of course, if we don't like the shape we can take them down, twist the iron a different way, recut the glass and have a new domicile. Anyway, friends, I hope we shall all spend a little time thinking about houses. Houses become homes; homes become gardens in which human souls grow.