A Magazine Window Display By Cora Carver Ritchie HE Four Stake Relief Societies of Weber County have really done big things in the last eight months of 1934, not only for themselves, but for the communities in which they live. Every civic undertaking that they felt would make a better and bigger place in which to live they have helped put over with the usual Relief Society work and spirit. At the close of a home products campaign sponsored by the Industrial Division of the Ogden Chamber of Commerce in which one ward in each of the Four Stakes won a home products dinner, for gathering the most home products labels, Mayor Peery said, "I have always noticed that you can depend on the ladies of the Relief Societies to put over their work in a big way. They are always dependable." In July on the two days the thermometer registered the most intense heat of the summer 500 women under the leadership of the Four Stake Work and Business Leaders held demonstrations featuring their year's work at different stores in Ogden. They listened to lectures on modern methods of painting and repairing in the kitchen and bath, etc., also visited stores to learn new and economical floor coverings and wall papers, drapes, slip covers, etc., and sponsored actual demonstrations in wool work. The Stake Work and Business leaders, Mrs. Erica Soderberg, Mrs. Lucile Myers, Mrs. Blanche Wilson, and Mrs. Charlotte McKinnon conducted the ladies in groups of thirty to sixty, each to the different stores, where the managers gave wonderful cooperation in helping put on educational demonstrations that materially assisted the courses outlined in the work and business lessons. The crowning event that the Relief Societies helped sponsor was the display window at the Newberry's Store during Ogden's Fall Festival. This window consisted of quilts, fancy work of all kinds, magazine and card displays. The four cards explained the four lessons and the magazines consisted of displays of bound volumes and the magazine opened to each one of the four lessons. This window attracted larger crowds than any other display during the two days' Fall Festival. In connection with the window, the manager of the Newberry's Store, Mr. Geo. Rentstrom, gave the women the upstairs floor for the busy work department. Here the Four Stake Work and Business leaders conducted another demonstration on wool work, such as pillows and shawls, painting of vases, lacquer work, making of flowers, pictures in silhouettes. Ladies from other nearby stakes and even from California attended these demonstrations. Manager Rentstrom served Ogden made candy and gave interesting lectures on the importance of buying at home. More than one thousand visitors attended in the two days. Samples of Utah made sugar were also given out. Mr. Rentstrom also prepared a table to be used as a magazine sales table. The sisters contacted each customer as they came in the door and used missionary tactics to get subscriptions. To many the magazine was new. Then a missionary talk was given explaining the value of the magazine to every member of the family. It was interesting  to note that often the men were the most willing subscribers. Mrs. Allie Y. Pond took charge of the magazine subscription work. The aim of all events was to put the Relief Society Magazine before the public realizing that the magazine in itself is an asset in any home. The campaigning of this magazine drive consisted of these demonstrations, a house to house canvas, lectures in each ward by a stake board member, and a play, "The Spirit of the Magazine" by the Fifth Ward of the Mount Ogden Stake. The Editor of the Relief Society Magazine, Mary C. Kimball, was present at the initial performance of this play. Courtesy of George Renstrom, DISPLAY WINDOW OF WEBER COUNTY RELIEF SOCIETIES A MAGAZINE WINDOW DISPLAY 93 Sister Lydia Burrows coached the ladies in this play which received so much favorable comment that it has been repeated several times. The results of this united effort and well directed campaign were most gratifying. All wards report new members. Mount Ogden Stake went 77% in the magazine drive. The Eighteenth Ward went 19 over 100% with 23 new subscriptions. The Seventeenth Ward went 10 over 100%. The small ward of Uinta consisting of twenty members sold 21 subscriptions. The four Stake Presidents, Mrs. Ezra Rich, Mrs. Ida Treseder, Mrs. Julia Perry and Mrs. J. E. Wright, have been the leaders in all these events. Mr. George Rentstrom, manager of the Newberry's Store in Ogden, was born in Huntsville, Utah. When I asked him if he would like the Relief Society to come into his store and put over their demonstrations he said, "I will be pleased to have them and will help in any way that I can. I was raised by the Relief Societies. Mother used to take me with her to meetings. They do a wonderful work. I also believe in patronizing Utah Products." He proved his statements by his cooperation. He even put the window in the second time so we could get this picture. Perhaps you think it will be impossible or maybe impractical to put on like events in your own stakes, but Relief Society presidents, you will find a Mr. Rentstrom in your town, perhaps several of them, your concerns are his, his cooperation with you means his success. Why not find him and let him help you.