2 The Socialized Lesson (Address delivered at the Relief Society Conference, Oct. 3, 1934) By Dr. John T. Wahlquist, University of Utah MAY I preface my remarks by saying that I think the most important service in the Church is that of teaching. It may be of interest to you to know that when George Q. Cannon returned from one of his missions the thought occurred to him that probably greater than missionary service abroad was the responsibility of missionary work at home in teaching the gospel to the young people of the Church, and at that time he established The Juvenile Instructor, and for several years devoted himself to the Sunday School movement. Although you are dealing with a different age, I think you, too, sense your responsibility as teachers. I feel very humble in trying to tell you how to teach one another, or how to teach your groups, but I have prepared an outline which will indicate a forward movement in pedagogy. AS I look at you I think most of you probably attended the traditional day school, if so you will recall that the teacher assigned lessons in a book and you took the lessons home and made your preparation,-and the teacher then quizzed you to find out the degree of your preparation and awarded you for good preparation and penalized you for poor preparation. At any rate the actual learning, as far as you were concerned, was something carried on outside of the classroom. If I mistake not that practice is wrong. I am doubly sure that it is wrong in your situation where you teach adults. I question very much whether the sisters will prepare lessons arbitrarily thrust on them, whether they can prepare these lessons at home and carry the responsibilities of the home, and whether they feel that you, as a teacher, have any right to sit in judgment upon them, and penalize, or criticise, or ridicule them because their preparation is not adequate or award them in view of the adequacy of their preparation. I think if you have been teaching you agree that I am right. In the day school we are changing the nature of the class period. No longer does the teacher assign the lessons for the youngsters to prepare outside of school to recite back to the teacher in school. We have recognized the most important thing we can do for children is to direct their training, direct their study, and I  suppose that will hold in the adult situation as well. OW what is a "socialized recitation'? A socialized recitation is a situation where the individual members no longer recite to the teacher, but to the group. A socialized situation is one in which the individual does not stand in awe of the teacher, and in which the teacher is no longer a dictator or arbitrator or final authority. The socialized situation is one where a group of individuals are at work, attempting to make an adaptation which will carry over into their lives. If the situation is truly socialized they feel at liberty to express their opinions whether their opinions are in agreement with the opinions of others or not; they feel at perfect liberty to reveal the inadequacy of their know]edge, and to ask intelligent questions. They feel that if they do ask questions that they have not done anything wrong. If the situation is truly socialized they feel at liberty to either contribute to the hour or to ask questions so that they may carry something from the hour. Making a contribution is one sure method of getting something from the recitation proper. Why the socialized cactintiarn® There have been some conflicting theories of education. One to the effect that the mind was a wax tablet upon which we wrote at will. That was probably the philosophy of the day school you attended. We no longer believe in that. No amount of teacher activity is a substitute for pupil activity. The best prepared teacher in the world cannot do a thing for you other than to stimulate you to self-activity, the newer conception of education. The teacher may have most splendid codes, fine authorities, good address, and yet fail to teach, unless the members of the groups are stimulated to follow and interpret the discourse as it is given. That is one of the objections to the lecture method, which is not a socialized method of teaching. If learning does depend upon the activity of the individual, and I think there is plenty of evidence that that is the case, your success as a teacher is dependent upon your ability to get widespread participation on the part of the members of the group. We learn by doing. Ask a five-year-old child, What is a chair? He will tell you it is something to sit upon. Ask him what a table is—it is something to set things upon; what an orange is—something to eat. Every conception we have rests upon our own experience, and we can never substitute for our own experience the thinking or thoughts of others, nor can teachers pour subject matter from one mind to another, as we pour water from one vessel to another. A person will learn only to the extent that he is interested in what is being taught and the best education as to the person's actual interest is his own activity. THE other side of the socialized recitation is preparation for living. I think what a good many members want to carry from their class exercises is not necessarily knowledge of Church doctrine, which they may know, but it is the ability to contribute to the hour. They probably go to get the stimulation to read something in one of the standard works of the Church which they have neglected, or they go because they would like to read some current theological thought, and they need the stimulus of the group to bring them to do that thing. In other words what adults seek oftentimes when they go to class is living, they want to feel that they are still significant, that they are still growing, THE SOCIALIZED LESSON 5 and the only way teachers can make them feel that is to have socialized recitations. HAVE already given some oi the objections to "lesson-hearing," which means the assigning of a lesson to be mastered for the purpose of reproduction at a subsequent class session. If the individuals are not prepared such a lesson is a waste of time, i.e. If every person has read the lesson and knows the lesson there is no particular learning in that hour, and to ask questions and get parrot-like responses is almost a waste of time, except that people do learn by expressing 'themselves, and there is a certain amount of expression here. If the students are unprepared, and I think that is more likely to be the case, if they have not read the lesson completely, to ask questions and to wait responses is like waiting for the Judgment Day. The hour is a waste of time, the teacher feels that she is a failure, and the group feel that they have nothing to take home. THAT are some factors in a socialized recitation? First of all, participation must be widespread. By that I mean as many individuals in the group should be active as can be. How to get them to be active is the teacher's problem. I do not think the class members are going to be active if the teacher simply puts questions and waits for answers. I do not believe the class members feel as responsible to religious teachers as you felt to your school master. A group of forty women should not come and only five of them take part, because thirty-five of them will feel it was a poor recitation, not only that, but they will probably carry away with them some emotional attitude towards some of the people who did monopolize the time, yet the few who did take part probably did so because they thought the lesson was a complete failure, and they were rushing to the rescue of the teacher, to try to help her out of the difficulty. If the teacher were conscious of that fact, she would get as many of her group as possible to respond. There are various ways of doing this. I think the simplest way is to spread the questions over the four corners of the room. If you find yourself referring a question in the same direction two or three times, you had better check, and refer elsewhere in the group. By all means ask your questions to the group, and then name the individual. Get as many to respond as possible, also assign special functions. Think up all the ways you can to get these persons to feel responsible. If you had twenty people in your class because they have something to do there, you would not only have a good class, but you would increase your attendance. Now the second point, criticisms should be safeguarded. If a person answers a question or tries to make a contribution, it may not be exactly what you desire, but be tactful, be sympathetic, accept it for what it is worth, elaborate upon it if you wish, refer it to the group, but do not be too critical of the response. On the other hand, do not award people for something that you know not to be right. Do not say, "Yes, that is right," and go on to something else. If the individual is not perfectly right do not tell her so, but consider the issue until you have settled it to your satisfaction. Third, interruptions should be minimized. If you get someone starting to talk do not break in on them unless they are off the subject, but allow them to complete their  statement before you make any comment at all. You will find that if you break in upon people you frighten them, they lose their trend of thought, they become self-conscious, they dislike it—this reaction is perfectly natural. On the other hand, you do have to stop some people, as you know, but the easiest way to stop them is not to call on them. Four—Avoid digressions. There are some people who know two or three things very well, and they think they should be discussed everywhere they go. It is difficult to deal with these people, but if you knew the members of your group, if you knew their names, if you had established the habit of referring questions to the sisters in such a way that they did not feel they had been called upon the carpet for an accounting, but in such a manner that you felt they could make a contribution, and were soliciting their aid, you could avoid the digressions by these voceriferous individuals. You will find that the best group at times will leave the lesson and go off on to other topics unless you watch that very carefully, and all you have to say is, "Yes, this topic is very interesting, all topics are interesting to the members of this group, but if we are going to make headway in this particular course of study we must discuss just one topic at a time." Fifth—The teacher must participate wisely. It is not a socialized recitation if the teacher does the majority of the work. A teacher should do not tod little nor too much. If they do too much the individual members of the group will feel that the class belongs to the teacher. If the teacher does too little the individual members of the group will get away with the discussion and be able to carry the field. Now lastly, maintain an informal attitude. Do not talk down to your group; assume a very friendly attitude; use a pleasing tone as much as possible; get as close to the members of your group as you can; and establish a suitable rapport, if possible. I have already said you cannot have a socialized recitation if you simply ask questions and wait for the answers, but I am sure you can by stimulating the activities of class members. I have made a suggestive list of activities which I think the adult members of your group could enter into. 1. Plan your work for the next ttme—here are some points that probably ought to be brought out; how do you think we ought to take this? Who will take responsibility for this topic; and so on. 2. Presiding and conducting. Oftentimes this activity appeals to the members of a group, if they can sit in the chair simply while the discussion is going on, not that you want to substitute a member of the class as the teacher. You have been selected as teacher because you are more qualified for the position, but if you have a certain order of business, and you can hand that to a person and let her occupy the chair, it might be a very satisfactory experience for some individuals. 3. Individual Contributions on Assigned Topics. 4. Voluntary Supplementary Contributions——which are given offhand, any time during the hour, or challenging or questioning statements. Members of your group should feel free to disagree with you, or the other members of the group. Sometimes, as Dr. Talmage pointed out, people go round and round on the same two questions, and it is well to ask '"'What difference does it make?" That stops a lot of discussion. 5. Challenging or Questioning THE SOCIALIZED LESSON 75 Statements—We should feel free to question the statements of one. Another, and I think you can bring about that spirit. 6. Correction, Criticism, Approval or Confirmation: Do you approve of the statement made, or do you disapprove? Do you take exception to any part of what this class member said, or do you agree wholeheartedly? 7. Summarizing: It is occasionally a good thing, at the end of an hour to say, "We have been talking about this principle of religion, who can tell us very briefly what is the "Mormon" point of view? In other words, summarize the work of the class. 8. Contribute Stories and Illustrations. 9. Retell Stories. 10. Give Special Reports: I think in your theological work you probably do run into questions which seem to be too difficult for the members present, they are left in a quandry, they do not know exactly what the position of the Church is. Let us see if some individual will follow that up and make a report at the next meeting. 11. Make Special Investigations. 12. Bring supplementary materials, pictures, relics, books, etc. 13. Act on Committees. 14. Conduct Bulletin Boards. 15. Conduct Excursions. This list is just suggestive. I think every teacher in view of her group could extend this list a great deal, my point being that an interesting class hour will be a class hour which is filled with activities, and in which as many individuals as possible make contributions in as many different ways as possible. Now there are some dangers. It _ is relatively easy to put a question, with your book propped up before you, to a group with their books closed, as we used to do in the day schools; it is the easiest method I know. When you start throwing your topics open for discussion, having reports, investigations and the like, you must be on your toes. It is a difficult procedure, but it is worthwhile if self-activity is the basis of learning. There are certain dangers aside from that. There may be a waste of time, you will have to watch that and not allow the discussion to get out of hand. Be sure you can draw the line between the relevant and the irrelevant. It has always been interesting to me to see how the group will shortly divide itself into little cliques. You have to watch that very carefully, and you must not let your discussion be shortcircuited. I suppose you do not have disciplinary troubles in the same sense that we have them in school, but sometimes arguments lead class members to ignore the teacher or the group and to talk among themselves. You may have experienced a situation where a rumbling was going on here, there and everywhere, and the teacher wondered whether she was present or not, she lost control of her group. These are the dangers. If you know these few dangers I think you can meet them. You can nip trouble in the bud, if you can anticipate it.