MADONNA OF THE CHAIR Raphael
Christmas Day By Matilda Peterson
"Christmas is a solemn time, Because beneath the star The first great Christmas gift was given To all men near and far."
CHRISTMAS Day is Christ's Day. Then, of all times, the lessons and teachings of His life should form the theme of our thoughts. He was sent as a Christmas gift to all mankind. Therefore, we remember His Birthday in this month of December, and in gratitude for what He did, we give to others. The story of His birth is one of which the world never wearies, and it is one admirably adapted to make a strong appeal to the hearts of children. It is the most wonderful and the most sublime story in all literature. The marvelous beauty of the historic setting has no equal: messengers from heaven bearing glad tidings to humble shepherds watching their flocks; wise men from the East hastening to worship an infant in a manger; and that infant the Redeemer of the world! Here we witness heaven and earth uniting to win our hearts, and to impress a glorious message on young and old. But the story, as too often told, makes no appeal to the children; they find nothing lofty, nothing worthy of emulation in it. Is it because, in our desire to be exact, we talk about "a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes", "wise men", "frankincense and myrrh", words that mean nothing to them? Is it because no spiritual atmosphere has been created? Or is it because there has been no proceeding from the known to the related unknown? As the story is usually told, not even the simplest, most fundamental of pedagogical principles are observed. Let us tell the story this once as we would any other story, with descriptions of the country and the people, the journey of the men and the camels, and the sheep asleep on the hillside. Let us make the center of interest the baby, a real baby that the children will wish to see and love. Then leave the story with the thought that people love Him because He was such a loving child, and that therefore, only kind, loving deeds find any place in our observance of His birthday. Too often the mistake is made, perhaps unconsciously, of directing the thought of the children to Santa Claus rather than to Him whose birthday it is. The making of gifts is in accord with His example, but care should be taken to impress upon the minds of the children that the greatest joy to be obtained in observing the day lies in giving, rather than in receiving. Let us strive, then, to emphasize the thought, What can I do for others? Rather than, What will Santa Claus bring me? There is no lesson for which the teacher should be so well prepared, both mentally and spiritually, as for this lesson in ethics, because in no other is failure so disastrous. If the Christ story is told at all, it must be told in the spirit of Christ. It must be told by one who fully appreciates and truly loves the message of peace, for she alone will be able to put into it the poetry, love, and faith that will enable the child to absorb something of the meaning of "Light of the World."