Where art thou?" And he prays, "Remember thy suffering Saints." (Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, rev. Ed.; Salt Lake City: Desert Book Co., 1957, p. 753.) SUFFERING SAINTS

Why do members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints suffer? Why does an Almighty God permit sin, sorrow, disappointments, pain, and suffering? Some unbelievers in God have argued that because he permits suffering, he does not exist. Many others have lost faith in God because of tribulations. As in all cases, to understand the answer to life's purpose, man's relationship to God, and a multitude of other matters, the answer must come from the source of all truth—revelation.

Admitting the presence of suffering and various adversities in life, a fact which is found on every side, it must be allowed that men are better able to endure tribulation provided they know the reason for the adversity! Recognizing this truth, the Lord has provided enough information to give men strength to withstand tribulations. The Savior said that in this world there would be tribulation, but his disciples could be of good cheer, for he had overcome the world. (John 16:33.)

From the treasury of revealed information, what is this message of good cheer?

The revelations teach that all mankind lived in a spirit world before this birth. In that existence there was contention over the plan of salvation which should redeem men when they were born in an earth-life. Satan sought the honor of God, to ascend to his throne, through a proposal of his own. This plan was rejected in favor of the plan of the Father espoused by Jesus Christ, the Firstborn in the spirit world. (Moses 4:1-4; D&C 19:36-38.)

When the plan of salvation was accepted by the spirit sons and daughters of God, each person covenanted to abide by that plan. Included in the gospel of Jesus Christ is the Father's plan that his sons and daughters might come to earth to receive bodies that they might live under conditions of mortality. We are here!

In what kind of an environment? The kind where we learn good from evil, to struggle against evil, to preserve our lives where we may have disappointments, loss of wealth, death of a loved one, sorrow, pain, and other afflictions. It is a place, also, where we may prove ourselves to see if we will do whatsoever the Lord commands us. (Abraham 3:24-26.)

Admitting the doctrine of premortality, we have the basis for understanding the purpose of afflictions and also the fact that we elected to come to the earth where these conditions would exist. In fact, we shouted with joy and sang in the contemplation that we could progress only by earth-life to the eternal life which God promised to the faithful. (Job 38:4, 7; Titus 1:2.)

Among the purposes of this life is to determine whether or not we will be true to the Lord's commandments. (Abraham 3:24-26.) Also, as The Book of Mormon says, since there is opposition in all things the opportunity to be proved is possible. (2 Nephi 2:11.) We are also here to partake of the bitter as well as the sweet. (D&C 29:39; Moses 6:55-56.) Without these purposes, which include our free agency, there could be no existence. (D&C 93:30.)

In the beginning, Adam and Eve received these truths that they might understand the purpose for which they became mortal. Thus they were cast out into a world of sorrow, trouble, labor, and eventual death. But they were also informed that this path was necessary to receive a fulness of joy (Moses 5:10; D&C 93:33-34.) Eve expressed her joy in this knowledge, for she could know good and evil and the possibility of eternal life. (Moses 5:11.)

President Brigham Young gave us this information about adversities:...

If Adam had not sinned, and if his posterity had continued upon the earth, they could not have known sin, or the bitter from the sweet, neither would they have known righteousness, for the plain and simple reason that every effect can only be fully manifested by its opposite. If the Saints could realize things as they are when they are called to pass through trials, and to suffer what they call sacrifices, they would acknowledge them to be the greatest blessings that could be bestowed upon them. But put them in possession of true principles and true enjoyments, without the opposite, and they could not know enjoyment, they could not realize happiness. They could not tell light from darkness, because they have no knowledge of darkness and consequently are destitute of a realizing sense of light. If they should not taste the bitter, how could they realize the sweet? They could not. (Journal of Discourses, 2:301-302.)

If one is living according to the commandments, may we believe that he is immune to afflictions? Jacob, The Book of Mormon prophet, was told that his afflictions were consecrated for his gain. (2 Nephi 2:2.) The faithful pass through tests to see if they will remain faithful. (Ether 12:6.) The greatest example of suffering was the Savior. His trials and the taking of the world's sins upon himself and eventual death on the cross, have become the example for all men. (D&C 19:15-19.)

President Hugh B. Brown said the following about the Master:...

We cannot think of the history of the past and bring to our minds examples of adversity without thinking of the one who stands as the central figure of all time, the Master, the one who was prophetically referred to before He was born as "man of sorrows," (Isa. 53:3), who was acquainted with grief, the one to whom Paul referred as he who learned obedience by the things he suffered. (See Heb. 5:8.) (Hugh B. Brown, Eternal Quest, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, Inc., 1956, p. 248.)

The Prophet Joseph Smith learned lessons in affliction throughout his life. (D&C 172:2.) One of the important lessons he learned is given in Section 122, a portion of the letter written in Liberty Jail. The Lord spoke peace to the Prophet's soul in a prophecy concerning his life. Fools would have his name in derision while the righteous would seek wisdom and counsel from his hand. Although the efforts of the wicked would never turn the saints against him, their influence would cause him great trouble. (D&C 122:1-4.)

The Lord had reminded the Prophet that he was not like Job of old whose friends had forsaken him.

In that life they were to partake of the bitter as well as the sweet. The fact that pain, sorrow, discouragement, and loss of loved ones in death would be a part of that experience, would nevertheless be for their good. With this knowledge of what would be, the children of God willingly accepted the opportunity to come to earth because it would provide the way by which they might eventually, if faithful, become as their Eternal Father.

Lesson Department

In order that earth's inhabitants might be successful, the plan of salvation included the opportunity for them to learn of their premortality, the purpose of life, and also the reality of the hereafter. With faith in the word of the Lord, the saint who has accepted these truths is strengthened against adversities. The testimony borne by the Holy Ghost to the soul of the saint also gives strength to withstand the trials of life.

The important truth about adversity is the effect it has upon the person. President David O. McKay said: Today there are those who have met disaster, which almost seems defeat, who have become somewhat soured in their natures; but if they stop to think, even the adversity which has come to them may prove a means of spiritual uplift. Adversity itself may lead toward and not away from God and spiritual enlightenment; and privation may prove a source of strength if we can but keep the sweetness of mind and spirit.

(David O. McKay, Treasures of Life, Compiled by Claire Middlemiss; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1962, pp. 107-108.)