HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion

4—Let's Be More Courteous

Celestia J. Taylor

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, 
Southern Hemisphere: 

OBJECTIVE: To show how acting courteously in our homes and in public and being reverent in sacred places are the marks of a cultured person.

When we hear someone say of another, "She is a person of culture and refinement," we feel that a high compliment has been paid—a compliment we would all like to deserve. It is one which is within our reach if kindness, love, and consideration for others are made a natural, habitual, and consistent part of our lives. These are the inward qualities which are outwardly revealed in acts of courtesy and good manners.

Those of us who think of courtesy and good manners as being separate and apart from our everyday behavior—an on-and-off sort of conduct—fail to realize their underlying value and significance. In her book Highlights on the Life of President David O. McKay, Janet M. Morrell says, "There were no company manners in the McKay home. Father and Mother were as courteous to each other and to their children when only the members of the family were present, as when the most respected guests were in the house."

In a home where there is a manifestation of kindness, love, and consideration for others, courtesy finds its abode.

Courtesy ts kindness.

Printed recently in an article by Elizabeth Post in the Deseret News were two lines which many of us remember from our childhood:
 
 

Politeness is to do and say
The kindest things in the kindest way.

In remaining seated until the meal is completed or until excused. E. In showing appreciation for preparation and serving of food. (One lovely mother says, "Very few meals in our twenty years of married life have finished without my husband's thanking me for the fine food. From his example the children respond in the same manner.") II. On the telephone: A. In answering or in calling for a number or person. B. In avoiding over-long conversations. C. In listening only when the call is personal. D. In relaying messages. E. In being gracious in voice and manner. III. To each other: A. In being tactful and considerate of feelings. B. In showing interest by listening when spoken to. C. In respecting each other's privacy and property. (Clothes, personal possessions, rights, etc.) D. In expressing appreciation for favors. E. In showing respect and obedience to family law and order. F. In disciplining oneself in voice and manner—avoiding display of temper and quarreling. G. In controlling one's moods. HOW SHALL WE SHOW COURTESY IN PUBLIC? I. To one's neighbors: A. In avoiding gossip. B. In helping in times of need. C. In expressing appreciation. II. On the street: A. In observing laws and rules when driving. (Some people show more discourtesy when driving than they do at any other time.) B. In crossing streets—if a pedestrian. C. In keeping all public laws of cleanliness and decency. III. In stores and markets: In expressing thanks to salespeople or clerks for personal help. In handling merchandise or foodstuffs. In avoiding selfish behavior—pushing, crowding, etc. In using elevators and escalators. In observing rights of others in every situation. HOW SHALL WE SHOW COURTESY IN PUBLIC? IV. At work: A. In being prompt. B. In observing company rules. C. In giving good and full service to employer or employee, as the case may be. D. In showing consideration to friend or stranger. OW > 0 REVERENCE IN SACRED PLACES IS A MARK OF COURTESY It would be well for each of us to observe the rules of courtesy and good manners whenever we enter sacred places whether they be our own chapels and temples or the hallowed spots of others not of our faith. The degree of our love and reverence for our Heavenly Father is evidenced by our behavior when we visit these sacred places. It is asad commentary that the adults are more often the offenders in this regard than are the children. Can we afford not to set the right example? CONCLUSION Since courtesy and good manners are the outward sign of the Lesson Department virtues that reside within us, we owe it to ourselves as well as to those with whom we associate to exemplify these qualities by word and deed. Only then can we deserve to be called persons of "culture and refinement."