[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: The Art of Beautiful Madsen]
The Art of Beautiful Tone Quality in Singing
Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board
Sing again, with your clear voice revealing a tone Of some world far from ours, Where music and moonlight and feeling are one. (Shelley)
A tone is a given, fixed sound of certain, definite pitch. It is refined sound and is composed of a fundamental tone and its overtones. It is the heart of all music. If tones are complete in every respect the music will be correspondingly good. Certain characteristic elements are present in a beautiful tone. Of these richness is one of the most basic and appealing. To produce this quality there must be a definite, clear-cut, fundamental tone. Above this there must also be a certain number of partials (overtones) evenly distributed. It is the presence of these overtones in their proper inherency and proportion that finally determines the tone quality (timbre or timber). This quality denotes a particular characteristic type of tone such as: sonorous, rich, beautiful.
The ability to think, produce, and fully appreciate beautiful tone quality is a gift—an inherited capacity, the ability to perceive and conceive vibratory completeness, perfection, beauty. In fact, a person who is a real artist belongs to the rank of a genius. Nevertheless, much of this gift may be acquired through diligent study, listening, imitating, reasoning, ear-training, association, comparing, producing, correcting, improving. Since not all of us are especially endowed with tonal understanding, and since beautiful tone quality is indispensable to proper singing, and since most of us love to sing as well as we can, it is reasonable to conclude that we should strive to acquire as much understanding of beautiful tone quality as possible.
Persistent Study Necessary
What is the end of study? Let me know? Why, that to know, which else we should not know. Things are not good, you mean, from common sense? Ay, but is study's god-like recompense. (Shakespeare)
Study tone quality from every possible single and authoritative point. This includes: (a) Consonance, agreeable in sound, not scattered, "throaty," uneven tone, but, concentrated, unrestrictied, resonant. (b) Pitch, a certain number of vibrations per second, unwavering, sustained. This is accomplished by singing long tones on different pitches, with proper and sustained breath support, as explained in lesson one. Practice with thoughts, feelings, and emotions directed towards the beautiful in life and nature. This conduces to richness and beauty of tone quality.
[Note: The short articles on music which appear in the Magazine may form the basis for the discussion in the choristers’ and organists’ department of union meeting.] Page 552
LESSON DEPARTMENT
