[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Storing Food in a Simonsen]

So long these things I love have been A vital part of me, Without them I am like a ship Lost on a windswept sea - Storing Food in a Basement Velma N. Simonsen Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society ATTER-day Saints believe that God is as much concerned with the affairs of men today as he was in the days of ancient Israel. And as Joseph was instructed to prepare his people for a day of need, the word of the Lord, coming through his prophets to us today, is to have on hand at least one year's supply of food.
Does this sound like a Herculean task? Do you feel that it is impossible for city folk, living in small houses on limited budgets, to obey this counsel? We have found that it can be done and it is lots of fun. We first made a list of the foods and the amounts we would need for our family for the year. We included in our storage, paper napkins, waxed paper, soap, and other household necessities. We made our purchases according to our list. Of course, few families can afford to go out and at one time buy a year's supply of food and supplies and store them, but by wise budgeting we can buy a case of food at a time or a sack of flour one week and a quantity of sugar another week.
Some families make a practice of buying two of everything they need, one for immediate use and one for storing. In any event, as you use from your storage supply be sure to replace it so that you may maintain your one year's supply constantly. My husband and I were both reared in families where it was expedient and natural to store a year's supply of food.
Therefore the word "hoarding" has little meaning for us. We try to keep at least a year's supply of provisions on hand at all times, because we were trained in our youth to do so, and because it is the counsel given us of the Lord through his prophets. We are a family of six and all the storage space we have is a basement closet and a small fruit room. On shelves, in the closet, we store staples that do not need to be kept too cool, and which keep indefinitely, such as dried beans, split peas, macaroni products, spices, rice, flavoring, soaps, and such. We find the tin cannister sets that can be bought very cheaply in the dime stores or gallon ice-cream cartons or any cans with tight lids are splendid to store these foods in.