[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Pickering]
526  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1948 
awe.    I  put  my  hands  together  and  ness  oppressed  me  and  an  unaccus- 
closed  my  eyes— tightly.  tomed  sensation  of  unrest.  The  feel- 
"Dear  God,"  I  said,  "forgive  me  ing  remained  with  me  that  God  was 
for  disturbing  you  .  .   ."  Nothing  waiting,  waiting.    And  his  patience 
else.    Nothing  else  would  come.  was  infinite. 
I  rose  and  hurried  down  the  aisle,  j  hurried  my  footsteps  up  the  hill 
pushing  open    the  great   door  be-  toward  home.  The  cottage  stood  on 
neath  the  west  tower.    A  few  sec-  the  crest,  solid,  old  as  the  church, 
onds  more  and  I  was  in  the  mild  ^  haven  of  comfort, 
stillness  of   the  churchyard  again.  j^     jj^^^jj^^  ^^^  \^f^^^  ^.^^  f-^^^ 
TTie  church  was  behind  me    mas-  j^^itjin         gray  thing  for  Antony, 
sive    silent-empty,  yet  breathing!  ^^^  j^^\^j  ^   ^^  I  ^^„^  -^ 
Michael  would  laugh  when  they  ,,t,  ,    i      »,  t      •  i        i 
wrote  to   tell  him   I  had   gone  to  Mother     I  said   and  my  voice 
church.    They  would  all  think  it  so  ^^^/l*^*  of  he  penitent  before  his 
funny.    Perhaps  it  was.    Perhaps  I  confessor       Mother-I  have  been 
should  laugh,  too.  t°  ^l^"^'^^' 
I  rallied  all  my  sense  of  humor,  My  mother  put  down  her  knit- 
but  fully  marshalled,  it  brought  no  ting, 
laughter  to  my  lips.    A  sense  of  sad-  (To  be  continued) 
ESSENTIALS 
Alice  Whitson  Norton 
I  love  the  things  with  which  I've  hved 
Throughout  my  entire  hfe, 
Like  grandma's  quaint  old  soup  tureen, 
And  granddad's  carving  knife; 
My  father's  pewter  shaving  mug^ 
An  old  four-poster  bed, 
A  comfort  made  from  scraps  of  silk. 
And  brier-stitched  in  red; 
Odd  pieces  of  old  silverware, 
And  bits  of  dainty  lace; 
The  old  clock  on  the  mantelpiece 
With  bruises  on  its  face; 
My  mother's  armless  rocking  chair, 
Her  little  darning  gourd; 
A  candelabrum  made  of  brass — 
A  rusty  bladed  sword. 
So  long  these  things  I  love  have  been 
A  vital  part  of  me, 
Without  them  I  am  like  a  ship 
Lost  on  a  windswept  sea

Storing  Food  in  a  Basement 
VeJma  N.  Simonsen 
Counselor,  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 
LATTER-day     Saints     believe  ''hoarding  *  has  little  meaning    for 
that  God  is  as  much  concerned  us.    We  try  to  keep  at  least  a  year's 
with  the  affairs  of  men  today  supply  of  provisions  on  hand  at  all 
as  he  was  in  the  days  of  ancient  times,  because  we  were  trained  in 
Israel.  And  as  Joseph  was  instruct-  our  youth  to  do  so,  and  because  it 
ed  to  prepare  his  people  for  a  day  is  the  counsel  given  us  of  the  Lord 
of  need,  the  word  of  the  Lord,  com-  through  his  prophets, 
ing  through  his  prophets  to  us  to-  We  are  a  family  of  six  and  all  the 
day,  is  to  have  on  hand  at  least  one  storage  space  we  have  is  a  basement 
year's  supply  of  food.     Does  this  closet  and  a  small  fruit  room.    On 
sound  like  a  Herculean  task?     Do  shelves,  in  the  closet,  we  store  sta- 
you  feel  that  it  is  impossible  for  city  pies  that  do  not  need  to  be  kept  too 
folk,  living  in  small  houses  on  lim-  cool,  and  which  keep  indefinitely, 
ited  budgets,  to  obey  this  counsel?  such  as  dried  beans,  split  peas,  mac- 
We  have  found  that  it  can  be  aroni  products,  spices,  rice,  flavor- 
done  and  it  is  lots  of  fun.  ing,  soaps,  and  such.  We  find  the 
We  first  made  a  list  of  the  foods  tin  cannister  sets  that  can  be  bought 
and  the  amounts  we  would  need  very  cheaply  in  the  dime  stores  or 
for  our  family  for  the  year.  We  in-  gallon  ice-cream  cartons  or  any  cans 
eluded  in  our  storage,  paper  napkins,  with  tight  lids  are  splendid  to  store 
waxed  paper,  soap,  and  other  house-  these  foods  in. 
hold  necessities.  In  the  fruit  room,  in  order  to  as- 
We  made  our  purchases  accord-  sure  good  circulation  of  air,  we  cut 
ing  to  our  list.  Of  course,  few  fam-  a  hole  about  9"  x  12"  in  the  wall 
ilies  can  afford  to  go  out  and  at  one  near  the  floor;  over  this  we  put  an 
time  buy  a  year's  supply  of  food  open  grill.  We  ran  a  12"  x  12" 
and  supplies  and  store  them,  but  pipe  from  the  ceiling  of  the  fruit 
by  wise  budgeting  we  can  buy  a  room  between  the  joists  to  the  out- 
case  of  food  at  a  time  or  a  sack  of  side  and  put  an  open  grill  and  screen 
flour  one  week  and  a  quantity  of  over  both  ends  of  this  pipe  to  keep 
sugar  another  week.  Some  families  out  bugs  and  mice.  On  the  fruit- 
make  a  practice  of  buying  two  of  room  shelves  we  keep  our  home- 
everything  they  need,  one  for  im-  bottled  fruits  and  vegetables,  jams, 
mediate  use  and  one  for  storing.  In  and  jellies.  Under  the  shelves  we 
any  event,  as  you  use  from  your  store  the  case-lot  purchases  of 
storage  supply  be  sure  to  replace  canned  meat,  fish,  milk,  vegetables, 
it  so  that  you  may  maintain  your  one  fruit,  shortening,  flour,  cereals,  and 
year's  supply  constantly.  sugar. 
My  husband    and    I  were   both  We  usually  keep  five  or  six  sacks 
reared  in  families  where  it  was  ex-  of  flour  on  hand  at  all  times  and 
pedient  and  natural  to  store  a  year's  have  done  so  for  the  past  fifteen 
supply  of  food.  Therefore  the  word  years  and  have  not  had  one  sack  in- 
Page  527

S28 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1948 
fected  with  weevil.  The  ''trick"  is  spoiling.  In  this  way  the  onions  keep 
to  make  sure  one  sack  of  flour  does  firm  and  fresh  until  May. 
not  touch  another  sack  of  flour.  To  Storing  carrots  is  a  simple  pro- 
avoid  this,  when  stacking,  we  put  cess.  We  wash  them,  cut  off  the 
a  sack  of  flour  then  a  sack  of  sugar  tops,  put  them  in  a  creamery  can, 
then  a  sack  of  flour  and  so  on,  or  we  place  the  hd  on  the  can  loosely,  and 
lay  some  of  the  flour  on  top  of  a  stand  the  can  on  the  fruit  room 
case  of  vegetables.  We  always  put  floor.  The  can  works  on  the  same 
slats  of  wood  between  the  cement  principle  as  the  hydrator  in  an  ice 
and  the  articles  stored,  as  the  ce-  box,  keeping  the  carrots  moist  and 
ment  has  a  tendency  to  ''sweat,"  crisp  until  spring,  and  very  handy 
and  the  wood  keeps  the  moisture  to  get  at.  We  are  always  careful  that 
from  the  stored  food.  the  lid   is   replaced  loosely.     The 
parsnips  are  stored  the  same  as  the 
JN  the  fall  of  tiie  year  we  buy  three  carrots  only  in  a  smaller  container, 
sacks  of  potatoes,  a  sack  of  small  ^^  ^ppi^^  ^^  ^^^^^  ^^  ^^  garage 
size  onions  for  cooking  whole  (try 
creaming  them  with  peas  or  string 
beans,  they  are  delicious!);  a  sack 
of  large  size  onions  for  slicing,  a 
bushel  of  carrots,  a  half-bushel  of 
parsnips,  and  several  bushels  of  ap- 
ples. The  potatoes  we  stand  on 
slats  of  wood  on  the  fruit  room 
floor.    For  us,  these  keep  firm  and 
We  put  the  box  of  apples  inside  a 
larger  box  with  crumpled  newspaper 
between  the  two  boxes  and  on  top; 
over  it  all,  we  fold  an  old  blanket. 
This  is  enough  insulation  to  keep 
the  apples  from  freezing  and  the 
low  temperatures  keep  them  firm. 
In  this  land  of  plenty,  some  may 
question    the    necessity   of   storing 
fresh  from  October  until  May  when     4^^^^^^^^  /^^^    nc^c.Mty    ui    .luixu^ 
the  new  potatoes  come  on  the  mar-     ^^^^^  ^^^  no  one  has  ever  lost  by 
ket.  The  onions  we  store  in  the 
mesh  bags  in  which  they  are  pur- 
chased. We  make  sure  the  onions 
are  thoroughly  dry  before  storing  by 
leaving  them  in  the  garage  until 
there  is  danger  of  them  freezing, 
obeying  the  counsel  of  the  Lord's 
anointed— and  the  added  conveni- 
ence and  the  feeling  of  security  that 
one  obtains  from  obeying  this  coun- 
sel are  well  worth  the  try. 
This  method  of  storing  food  has 
then  we  hang  them  from  a  nail  on  worked  well  for  us.  You  may  have 
the  wall  in  the  fruit  room  so  fliey  a  better  way,  but  m  any  event  keep 
may  get  better  circulation,  or  just  at  least  one  year's  supply  ahead.  By 
stand  the  sacks  on  slats  of  wood  so  doing  you  can  save  money  and 
on  the  fruit  room  floor.  We  check  keep  prepared  for  the  unknown  fu- 
the  onions  occasionally  and  discard  ^^re. 
any  that  seem  to  be  going  soft  or  It  can  be  done  and  it's  lots  of  fun. 
MIRROR 
Caroline  Eyring  Miner 
You  are  my  mirror, 
Daughter  of  mine; 
Make  my  reflection 
With  kindliness  shine.

Storing  Food  in  a  Two-Room 
Apartment 
Esther  Clark  Naylor 
IN  
the  matter  of  storing  food  in  bags  in  a  very  heavy  seamless  sack 
my  small,  heated  apartment  I  and  tying  each  sack  tightly, 
have  been  rather  successful.  To         Butter  also  can  be  stored  for  at 
do  this  I  have  had  to  use  care,  v^hen  least  one  year  if  kept  in  sealed  bot- 
the    heat    was    on    in    the    winter  ties  in  the  refrigerator.  Before  stor- 
months,  to  select  an  outside  wall  or  ing,  melt  the  butter  over  heat  that 
corner  of  the  rooms  where  there  is   hot  enough   to   send   the  curd 
are  no  heated  pipes  in  the  wall  or  or  whey  to  the  bottom  and  then 
the  floor,  to  stack  the  cases  of  food  pour  the  pure  butter  fat  into  a  well- 
against  the  wall  or  in  the  corner,  sterilized    bottle,    and    seal.     Care 
Then  in  the  summertime  the  food  should  be  taken  that  no  curd  goes 
should  be  moved  to  an  inside  wall  into  the  bottle.    There  is  no  waste 
or  closet,  the  coolest  place  in  the  in  this  method,  as  the  curd  or  whey 
room.  can  be  used  in  cookie  making. 
In  this  way  I  have  been  able  to  In  storing  home-canned  fruits, 
keep  the  food  until  it  was  used  up,  such  as  peaches,  applesauce,  plums, 
usually  from  two  to  three  years.  I  etc.,  I  have  used  the  same  method 
make  my  plans  to  store  a  two  years'  of  storing  as  for  the  storage  of 
supply  every  summer.  canned  foods.  I  keep  one  year's 
The  canned  foods  stored  consist  supply  ahead,  sometimes  more.  The 
of  string  beans,  peas,  corn,  toma-  jams  and  jellies  I  store  in  my  cup- 
toes  (if  I  do  not  home  can  the  to-  boards,  but  I  always  seal  the  jams 
matoes),  tomato  soup,  vegetable  as  I  do  the  fresh  fruit, 
soup,  grapefruit,  canned  milk,  and  I  haven't  been  very  successful  in 
honey,  with  some  canned  meat  and  storing  cheese  for  a  very  long  period 
fish.  The  canned  milk  should  be  of  time.  I  have  kept  flour  success- 
turned  over  every  week  or  two.  By  fully  by  lining  a  wall  behind  a  door 
doing  this,  milk  can  be  kept  for  at  with  brown  paper  and  stacking  flour 
least  one  year.  Of  course,  dried  in  sacks,  surrounding  each  sack  with 
beans  and  rice  will  keep  indefinite-  brown  paper.  It  kept  for  over  a 
ly.    I  am  now  using  beans  and  rice  year. 
that  were  purchased  about  six  years         In  planning  a  storage  for  a  single 
ago.     However,  the  rice  must    be  person  in  a  two-room  apartment  it 
watched  to  avoid  the  weevil  getting  is  helpful  to  estimate  food  needs.  A 
into  it.     I  think  the  sealed  pack-  can  of  peas  will  last  for  four  meals; 
ages  would  be  the  safest,  although  a  one-quart  bottle  of  fruit  will  last 
I  have  been  successful  in   storing  for  five  meals;  a  large  can  of  toma- 
the  loose  rice,  by  putting  it  in  very  toes  wall  provide  a  serving  for  each 
thick  paper  bags  and  placing  these  of  five  meals. 
Page  529

Sixty    LJears  J/igo 
Excerpts  from  the  Woman's  Exponent,  August  i,  and  August  15,  1888 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
THE  TWENTY-FOURTH:  The  commemoration  of  the  anniversary  of  the  en- 
trance of  the  Pioneers  into  this  valley  was  celebrated  last  month  with  appropriate  serv- 
ices in  the  large  Tabernacle,  an  immense  concourse  of  people  being  in  attendance.  It 
was  forty-one  years  since  the  company  of  Pioneers  arrived  where  Salt  Lake  City  now 
stands.  The  grand  organ  was  handsomely  draped  with  the  stars  and  stripes,  and  a  steel 
engraving  of  President  Brigham  Young  hung  in  the  centre  among  the  national  colors. 
Underneath  it  a  banner  bore  the  one  word  "Unity."  The  three  stands  were  draped  with 
national  flags,  and  the  platform  in  front  of  the  stands,  used  on  such  occasions,  was  taste- 
fully ornamented  with  flowers  and  plants  in  bloom.  On  one  side  was  the  head  and 
horns  of  a  buffalo,  with  its  long,  shaggy  hair,  and  on  the  other  the  very  old  flag  of  stars 
and  stripes,  that  was  flung  out  to  the  mountain  breeze  from  Ensign  Peak  on  their  first 
visit  to  the  mountains,  two  days  after  their  arrival. — Wilford  Woodruff 
APPRECIATION:  I  have  been  very  much  gratified  with  the  literary  attainments 
and  pleasant  tone  of  the  editorials  in  your  paper.  I  have  certainly  a  very  different  idea 
of  the  trials  and  struggles  of  the  Mormon  Pioneers,  from  what  I  had  before.  I  wanted 
to  know  the  standing  of  the  women  rights'  advocates,  among  your  people,  and  I  have 
been  gratified  indeed. — ^Mrs.  A.  Clark,  Nantucket,  R.  I. 
Fair  are  the  flowers  and  the  children,  but  their  subtle 
suggestion  is  fairer; 
Rare  is  the  rose  burst  of  dawn,  but  the  secret  that  clasps  it 
is  rarer. 
Sweet  the  exultance  of  song,  but  the  strain  that  precedes  it 
is  sweeter. 
And  never  was  the  poem  yet  writ,  but  the  meaning  out-mastered 
the  metre. 
—Richard  Realf 
NOTES  AND  NEWS:  The  announcement  that  Louisa  M.  Alcott's  home  at  Con- 
cord, Mass.,  is  to  be  sold,  leads  to  the  suggestion  that  it  be  bought  by  subscription  and 
converted  into  a  home  for  poor  children,  as  a  memorial  to  the  author  so  well  beloved 
by  young  readers. 
MARICOPA  STAKE:  Minutes  of  the  Relief  Society  Conference  of  Maricopa 
Stake,  held  at  the  Bowery,  Mesa  City  June  21st,  1888,  Elizabeth  G.  McDonald  presid- 
ing. The  different  branches  of  the  Society  were  well  represented;  there  were  a  number 
of  the  brethren  also  present.  Coun.  Morris  said,  "Let  us  go  to  the  Lord  for  strength  to 
carry  us  through  our  trials.  Felt  to  respond  cheerfully  to  every  call  made  upon  her. 
Prest.  Charles  I.  Robson  felt  the  importance  of  the  times  we  are  living  in;  thought  the 
day  was  near  at  hand  when  the  reign  of  righteousness  would  commerce  upon  the  earth. 
Prest.  E.  McDonald  felt  that  we  had  truly  had  a  feast.  Cave  counsel  to  the  sisters  to 
have  a  care  in  their  remarks  before  their  children.  "Be  careful  how  you  speak  of  your 
neighbors  before  them."  Asked  the  Lord's  blessings  upon  us,  that  we  might  increase 
in  good  works. — Sarah  M.  Pomeroy,  Secretary 
EDITORIAL  NOTES:  The  Deseret  University,  with  its  facilities  for  education, 
its  modern  improvements,  the  delightful  grounds,  and  the  suitable  situation,  enclosed, 
as  it  is,  and  shaded  on  all  sides,  is,  indeed,  a  desirable  locality  for  such  an  institution. 
It  has  the  advantage,  also,  of  an  able  Faculty,  and  ought  to  rank  high  as  a  seat  of 
learning. 
Page  530