[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Some Durham]
AUNT  MILLENIUM'S 
545 
Millenium's  hidden  novels.  "Oh/'  I 
repeated. 
"Oh!"  said  Papa.  Mama  smiled 
at  Aunt  Millenium  through  her  cold 
cream.    Toby  yawned. 
The  summer  was  nearly  over,  and 
we  all  decided  the  peanut  crop  was 
a  failure,  even  though  Papa  had  had 
a  triumphant  afternoon  when  the 
plants  had  really  sprouted.  The  only 
trouble  was  the  peanuts  at  the  oth- 
er end  had  failed  to  materialize  as 
they  did  in  the  picture. 
"Not  enough  time,  I  guess/'  said 
Papa  moodily.  He  had  had  to  take 
a  great  many  comments  from  the 
townspeople  who  frequently  stopped 
to  inspect  his  peanut  crop. 
The  book  was  finished,  yet  An- 
drew kept  hanging  around. 
"He's  getting  up  the  courage," 
said  Great-Aunt  Millenium. 
"Well,  I  wish  he'd  hurry,"  said 
Papa,  "the  whole  thing  makes  me 
very  nervous." 
Lavinia  Elizabeth  would  sit  be- 
fore our  mirror  after  we  were  sup- 
posed to  be  in  bed.  She  would  take 
off  her  glasses  and  lean  forward,  and 
then  she  would  smile  at  herself. 
It  was  late  August  when  Andrew 
and  Papa  went  walking  up  to  see 
the  failed  peanut  crop.  When  they 
came  back,  we  knew  it  was  over, 
and  Great-Aunt  Millenium  cooked 
a  big  special  dinner  in  honor  of  An- 
drew and  Lavinia  Elizabeth. 
It  was  all  very  romantic.  I  did  not 
even  mind  the  chance  drops  of  wat- 
er slipping  down  my  face  from  my 
curls,  I  was  so  interested  in  watch- 
ing them.  Lavinia  Elizabeth  smiled 
at  Andrew  and  he  smiled  at  her.  I 
felt  a  lump  in  my  throat  when  La- 
vinia Elizabeth  would  be  so  lovely 
just  with  smiling  at  Andrew. 
Papa  smiled  at  Mama  and  Great- 
Aunt  Millenium.  "Well,  we  made 
a  mistake  or  two—" 
"Never  mind,"  said  Mama. 
Papa  leaned  back  in  his  chair. 
"But  nothing  that  can't  be  repaired 
by  a  good  extra  hired  man  next  sum- 
mer." 
"Well,  we'll  certainly  plow  up 
the  peanuts  you  planted  half  the 
country  with,"  said  Aunt  Millenium 
drily,  "and  those  sweet  peas  Maude 
filled  my  vegetable  garden  with." 
"Oh  my,"  said  Mama,  laughing. 
"I  did  make  a  mistake  there,  but 
they  were  so  pretty  .  .  .  ." 
"Yes,"  said  Aunt  Millenium, 
"but  as  pretty  as  sweet  peas  are,  Fm 
afraid  the  peas  you  can  eat  and  put 
in  cans  are  more  sensible." 
Andrew  laughed,  but  he  was  not 
looking  at  us.  He  looked  only  at 
Lavinia  Elizabeth. 
Toby  and  I  went  outside  after 
Great-Aunt  Millenium's  supper. 
Toby  went  to  the  garage  and  came 
out  with  a  bucket  and  a  flashlight. 
"What  are  you  doing?"  I  asked 
him.  I  felt  bad  about  the  summer 
being  nearly  over.  Two  more 
days  .... 
"I'm  thinking  about  going  fishing 
tomorrow.  I'm  thinking  about  trap- 
ping some  night-crawlers." 
"Oh,"  I  said.  I  watched  him  from 
the  porch.  In  a  few  minutes  La- 
vinia Elizabeth  and  Andrew  crossed 
the  lawn  and  leaned  on  the  gate 
opening  into  the  orchard.  Andrew 
held  her  hand. 
"Look!"  I  whispered  to  Toby. 
"Abominably  biological,"  he  said, 
squinting  with  his  nose  very  close 
to  the  ground. 
"Grand  passion,"  I  breathed  fer- 
vently; then  sadly  I  felt  for  one  of 
my  longer,  slipping  curls  with  my 
tongue.

«J$V^ 
FROM  THE  FIELD 
Margaret  C.  Pickering,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
All  material  for  these  pages  should  be  submitted  through  stake  and  mission  Relief  So- 
ciety presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal  of  material  for  "Notes  From 
the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  April  1948,  page  274. 
HANDICRAFT,  SOCIALS,  AND  OTHER  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Margaret  Peterson 
NORWEGIAN  MISSION,  QUILT  MADE  BY  RELIEF 
SOCIETY  MEMBERS 
Shown  displaying  the  beautiful  quilt,  are:  President  Benny  Hagan;  First  Counselor 
Inga  Hansen;  Second  Counselor  Ida  M.  Swensen;  Secretary  Gudran  Anna;  Betzy  Holger- 
son;  Agnes  Floisand. 
The  quilt  was  made  under  the  direction  of  Sister  Swensen,  a  missionary  from  Idaho. 
Since  this  first  quilt  was  completed  many  others  have  been  made. 
The  sisters  of  this  mission  also  purchased  over  a  hundred  six-pound  packages  of 
food  which  they  sent  to  the  saints  in  Germany  and  Belgium. 
Margaret  Peterson  is  president  of  the  Norwegian  Mission  Relief  Society. 
Page  546

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
547 
Photograph   submitted  by   Maude   F.    Hanks 
SALT  LAKE  STAKE  (UTAH),  NINETEENTH  WARD,  SEVEN 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  PRESIDENTS 
Left  to  right:  Agnes  G.  Branch  (age  88)  1915-1925;  Maude  F.  Hanks,  1930-1936, 
now  stake  president;  Hattie  P.  Cooper,  1936-1939;  Lulu  Bringhurst,  1939-1942;  Laura 
P.  Fifield,  1942-1946;  Otelia  B.  Hale,  1945-1946;  Cordelia  S.  Taylor,  1946-. 
It  is  ninety-one  years  since  this  society  was  organized,  with  Drucilla  Hendricks  ap- 
pointed president  in  1857. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Amy  C.  Funk 
LOS  ANGELES  STAKE  (CALIFORNIA),  BEVERLY  HILLS  WARD  OFFICERS 
AND  TEACHERS  ASSEMBLED  AT  ANNIVERSARY  DINNER, 
March  18,  1948 
Standing,  left  to  right:  Nell  Frame;  Lilly  Rohlfing;  Ruth  Johnson;  Nell  Walt; 
Frances  Saunders;  Jeanne  Hunter;  Amy  Funk;  Kathleen  Jones;  Avon  Smart;  Mabel  Parry. 
Seated:  President  Louise  Luke. 
Approximately  100  women  attended  this  delightful  party  at  the  home  of  Sister 
Hunter.  Floral  arrangements,  the  birthday  cake,  and  other  refreshments  carried  out  the 
birthday  motif  and  the  blue  and  gold  colors  of  Relief  Society. 
Dorothy  H.  Koer  is  president  of  Los  Angeles  Stake  Relief  Society.

548 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1948 
Photograph  submitted  by  Maude  O.  Cook 
BEAR  RIVER  STAKE   (UTAH),  GARLAND  WARD  RELIEF  SOCIETY  SING- 
ING MOTHERS  WHO  HAVE  SUNG  FOR  MANY  WARD  AND  STAKE  MEET- 
INGS AND  HAVE  RENDERED  MUSICAL  SELECTIONS  IN  THE 
LOGAN  TEMPLE 
Officers,  seated  in  the  second  row:  President  Mary  Shumway,  second  from  the  left; 
organist  Amelia  Davis,  third  from  left;  chorister  Vida  Manning,  fourth  from  left;  sec- 
retary Lucetta  Thompson,  second  from  right. 
This  group  was  organized  in  1933  and  continued  for  fourteen  years  with  the  same 
officers.  During  this  time  they  sang  at  the  Garland  Ward  Relief  Society  meetings  twice 
each  month  and  sang  on  258  special  occasions  and  at  more  than  forty  funerals.  Also 
they  have  sung  a  number  of  times  in  the  Logan  Temple. 
Maude  O.  Cook  is  .president  of  Bear  River  Stake  Relief  Society. 
fc    w 
Photoerraph  submitted  by  Zelma  Miller 
MESA  STAKE  (ARIZONA)  SINGING  MOTHERS  CONCERT 
March  17, 1948 
This  concert  was  presented  for  the  Relief  Society  members  and  their  husbands  of 
Mesa  and  Maricopa  Stakes.    Approximately  900  people  attended. 
Director  Ellare  J.  Reber  is  seated  at  right,  front. 
Erma  Anderson  was  the  accompanist;  Ella  Bentley,  assistant  accompanist;  Vilate 
Gordon,  violinist;  Nathel  Bowers,  soloist;  Lane  Pew,  trumpeter;  LaPreel  Huber,  reader. 
Zelma  Miller  is  president  of  Mesa  Stake  Relief  Society.

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
549 
Photograph  submitted  by   Georgia   H.   Weenig 
CENTRAL  PACIFIC  MISSION,  OAHU  DISTRICT  (HAWAII),  RELIEF 
SOCIETY  ANNIVERSARY  PAGEANT,  March  17,  1948 
The  pageant  was  written  by  Katherine  Takeuchi  and  produced  by  a  committee 
under  her  direction.  With  the  spoken  word  and  music  the  following  events  were  por- 
trayed: the  organization  of  the  first  Relief  Society  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  the 
organization  of  the  first  Japanese  Mission  Relief  Society  under  the  direction  of  Presi- 
dent Hilton  A.  Robertson  and  Hazel  M.  Robertson  in  1940;  the  benefits  the  organization 
is  giving  to  present  members  of  the  Central  Pacific  Mission  Relief  Society. 
Included  in  the  photograph  are  members  of  the  pageant  cast  and  the  presidencies 
of  the  four  branch  Relief  Societies  on  the  island  of  Oahu. 
Seated  at  the  table,  directly  behind  the  birthday  cake,  left  to  right:  Irene  P.  Clis- 
sold,  wife  of  President  E.  L.  Chssold  of  the  Japanese  Mission;  Georgia  H.  Weenig,  Presi- 
dent, Central  Pacific  Mission  Relief  Society.  Katherine  Takeuchi  stands  at  the  right 
corner  of  the  table;  Mary  Matsumoto,  President,  Mission  Branch  Relief  Society,  stands 
at  the  left  corner  of  the  table. 
Branch  ReHef  Society  presidents  are:  Mitsuko  Kaneshige  (LanakiH);  extreme  left, 
second  row;  Okuma  Abo  (Wahiawa),  seventh  from  the  left,  second  row;  Grace  S.  Oki- 
moto  (Kalihi),  fifth  from  the  left,  third  row  . 
Women  missionaries  on  the  island  of  Oahu,  shown  in  the  picture,  are:  Anna  R. 
Williams;  Mary  B.  Greene;  Anita  B.  Hyatt;  Doris  Burris;  Dorothy  Watanabe;  Bessie 
Okimoto. 
Georgia  H.  Weenig  is  president  of  the  Central  Pacific  Mission  Relief  Society. 
ALPINE  STAKE  (UTAH),  AMERICAN  FORK  SEVENTH  WARD  RELIEF 
SOCIETY  RAG  BEE,  January  29,  1948 
Sister  Alice  Carlisle,  President,  Alpine  Stake  Relief  Society,  has  submitted  an  account 
from  the  American  Fork  Seventh  Ward  which  well  illustrates  the  zeal  of  Relief  Society 
workers:  "The  room  was  a  beehive  of  activity  as  thirty  members  assembled  for  a  regu- 
lar old-fashioned  rag  bee.  First,  a  fashion  show  of  the  clothing  that  was  to  be  cut  or 
torn  in  strips  for  the  rugs  was  held.  Needless  to  say,  there  was  a  great  deal  of  merri- 
ment. The  coats  of  the  women  were  safely  hung  on  hangers  on  a  rack  so  that  none  of 
them  would  meet  the  fate  of  the  coat  belonging  to  the  lady  from  Lehi,  who,  when  weav- 
ing rugs  for  her  own  ward,  discovered  that  her  own  coat  had  been  cut  up  into  strips. 
In  all,  thirty-one  balls  of  rags  were  sewed,  as  well  as  a  large  box  of  rags  torn,  which  were 
later  sewed  by  the  sisters  in  their  homes.  In  keeping  with  the  occasion,  homemade  cin- 
namon rolls  and  grape  juice  were  served  as  refreshments  by  Sister  Froelick  and  Sister 
Wall.  Cleone  Cleghorn  is  ward  Relief  Society  president,  with  Violet  Varney  and  Lena 
Storrs  as  counselors,  and  Jennie  Greenwood  as  secretary.