[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Essentials Norton]
ESSENTIALS 
Alice  Whitson  Norton 
I  love  the  things  with  which  I've  hved 
Throughout  my  entire  hfe, 
Like  grandma's  quaint  old  soup  tureen, 
And  granddad's  carving  knife; 
My  father's  pewter  shaving  mug^ 
An  old  four-poster  bed, 
A  comfort  made  from  scraps  of  silk. 
And  brier-stitched  in  red; 
Odd  pieces  of  old  silverware, 
And  bits  of  dainty  lace; 
The  old  clock  on  the  mantelpiece 
With  bruises  on  its  face; 
My  mother's  armless  rocking  chair, 
Her  little  darning  gourd; 
A  candelabrum  made  of  brass — 
A  rusty  bladed  sword. 
So  long  these  things  I  love  have  been 
A  vital  part  of  me, 
Without  them  I  am  like  a  ship 
Lost  on  a  windswept  sea

Storing  Food  in  a  Basement 
VeJma  N.  Simonsen 
Counselor,  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 
LATTER-day     Saints     believe  ''hoarding  *  has  little  meaning    for 
that  God  is  as  much  concerned  us.    We  try  to  keep  at  least  a  year's 
with  the  affairs  of  men  today  supply  of  provisions  on  hand  at  all 
as  he  was  in  the  days  of  ancient  times,  because  we  were  trained  in 
Israel.  And  as  Joseph  was  instruct-  our  youth  to  do  so,  and  because  it 
ed  to  prepare  his  people  for  a  day  is  the  counsel  given  us  of  the  Lord 
of  need,  the  word  of  the  Lord,  com-  through  his  prophets, 
ing  through  his  prophets  to  us  to-  We  are  a  family  of  six  and  all  the 
day,  is  to  have  on  hand  at  least  one  storage  space  we  have  is  a  basement 
year's  supply  of  food.     Does  this  closet  and  a  small  fruit  room.    On 
sound  like  a  Herculean  task?     Do  shelves,  in  the  closet,  we  store  sta- 
you  feel  that  it  is  impossible  for  city  pies  that  do  not  need  to  be  kept  too 
folk,  living  in  small  houses  on  lim-  cool,  and  which  keep  indefinitely, 
ited  budgets,  to  obey  this  counsel?  such  as  dried  beans,  split  peas,  mac- 
We  have  found  that  it  can  be  aroni  products,  spices,  rice,  flavor- 
done  and  it  is  lots  of  fun.  ing,  soaps,  and  such.  We  find  the 
We  first  made  a  list  of  the  foods  tin  cannister  sets  that  can  be  bought 
and  the  amounts  we  would  need  very  cheaply  in  the  dime  stores  or 
for  our  family  for  the  year.  We  in-  gallon  ice-cream  cartons  or  any  cans 
eluded  in  our  storage,  paper  napkins,  with  tight  lids  are  splendid  to  store 
waxed  paper,  soap,  and  other  house-  these  foods  in. 
hold  necessities.  In  the  fruit  room,  in  order  to  as- 
We  made  our  purchases  accord-  sure  good  circulation  of  air,  we  cut 
ing  to  our  list.  Of  course,  few  fam-  a  hole  about  9"  x  12"  in  the  wall 
ilies  can  afford  to  go  out  and  at  one  near  the  floor;  over  this  we  put  an 
time  buy  a  year's  supply  of  food  open  grill.  We  ran  a  12"  x  12" 
and  supplies  and  store  them,  but  pipe  from  the  ceiling  of  the  fruit 
by  wise  budgeting  we  can  buy  a  room  between  the  joists  to  the  out- 
case  of  food  at  a  time  or  a  sack  of  side  and  put  an  open  grill  and  screen 
flour  one  week  and  a  quantity  of  over  both  ends  of  this  pipe  to  keep 
sugar  another  week.  Some  families  out  bugs  and  mice.  On  the  fruit- 
make  a  practice  of  buying  two  of  room  shelves  we  keep  our  home- 
everything  they  need,  one  for  im-  bottled  fruits  and  vegetables,  jams, 
mediate  use  and  one  for  storing.  In  and  jellies.  Under  the  shelves  we 
any  event,  as  you  use  from  your  store  the  case-lot  purchases  of 
storage  supply  be  sure  to  replace  canned  meat,  fish,  milk,  vegetables, 
it  so  that  you  may  maintain  your  one  fruit,  shortening,  flour,  cereals,  and 
year's  supply  constantly.  sugar. 
My  husband    and    I  were   both  We  usually  keep  five  or  six  sacks 
reared  in  families  where  it  was  ex-  of  flour  on  hand  at  all  times  and 
pedient  and  natural  to  store  a  year's  have  done  so  for  the  past  fifteen 
supply  of  food.  Therefore  the  word  years  and  have  not  had  one  sack  in- 
Page  527

S28 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1948 
fected  with  weevil.  The  ''trick"  is  spoiling.  In  this  way  the  onions  keep 
to  make  sure  one  sack  of  flour  does  firm  and  fresh  until  May. 
not  touch  another  sack  of  flour.  To  Storing  carrots  is  a  simple  pro- 
avoid  this,  when  stacking,  we  put  cess.  We  wash  them,  cut  off  the 
a  sack  of  flour  then  a  sack  of  sugar  tops,  put  them  in  a  creamery  can, 
then  a  sack  of  flour  and  so  on,  or  we  place  the  hd  on  the  can  loosely,  and 
lay  some  of  the  flour  on  top  of  a  stand  the  can  on  the  fruit  room 
case  of  vegetables.  We  always  put  floor.  The  can  works  on  the  same 
slats  of  wood  between  the  cement  principle  as  the  hydrator  in  an  ice 
and  the  articles  stored,  as  the  ce-  box,  keeping  the  carrots  moist  and 
ment  has  a  tendency  to  ''sweat,"  crisp  until  spring,  and  very  handy 
and  the  wood  keeps  the  moisture  to  get  at.  We  are  always  careful  that 
from  the  stored  food.  the  lid   is   replaced  loosely.     The 
parsnips  are  stored  the  same  as  the 
JN  the  fall  of  tiie  year  we  buy  three  carrots  only  in  a  smaller  container, 
sacks  of  potatoes,  a  sack  of  small  ^^  ^ppi^^  ^^  ^^^^^  ^^  ^^  garage 
size  onions  for  cooking  whole  (try 
creaming  them  with  peas  or  string 
beans,  they  are  delicious!);  a  sack 
of  large  size  onions  for  slicing,  a 
bushel  of  carrots,  a  half-bushel  of 
parsnips,  and  several  bushels  of  ap- 
ples. The  potatoes  we  stand  on 
slats  of  wood  on  the  fruit  room 
floor.    For  us,  these  keep  firm  and 
We  put  the  box  of  apples  inside  a 
larger  box  with  crumpled  newspaper 
between  the  two  boxes  and  on  top; 
over  it  all,  we  fold  an  old  blanket. 
This  is  enough  insulation  to  keep 
the  apples  from  freezing  and  the 
low  temperatures  keep  them  firm. 
In  this  land  of  plenty,  some  may 
question    the    necessity   of   storing 
fresh  from  October  until  May  when     4^^^^^^^^  /^^^    nc^c.Mty    ui    .luixu^ 
the  new  potatoes  come  on  the  mar-     ^^^^^  ^^^  no  one  has  ever  lost  by 
ket.  The  onions  we  store  in  the 
mesh  bags  in  which  they  are  pur- 
chased. We  make  sure  the  onions 
are  thoroughly  dry  before  storing  by 
leaving  them  in  the  garage  until 
there  is  danger  of  them  freezing, 
obeying  the  counsel  of  the  Lord's 
anointed— and  the  added  conveni- 
ence and  the  feeling  of  security  that 
one  obtains  from  obeying  this  coun- 
sel are  well  worth  the  try. 
This  method  of  storing  food  has 
then  we  hang  them  from  a  nail  on  worked  well  for  us.  You  may  have 
the  wall  in  the  fruit  room  so  fliey  a  better  way,  but  m  any  event  keep 
may  get  better  circulation,  or  just  at  least  one  year's  supply  ahead.  By 
stand  the  sacks  on  slats  of  wood  so  doing  you  can  save  money  and 
on  the  fruit  room  floor.  We  check  keep  prepared  for  the  unknown  fu- 
the  onions  occasionally  and  discard  ^^re. 
any  that  seem  to  be  going  soft  or  It  can  be  done  and  it's  lots  of  fun. 
MIRROR
