[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Aunt Sutherland]

More tonight. I love you, Jane. Andrew (To be continued) Aunt Millenium's Deone'R Sutherland 6 6 THE proposition is at any ate an interesting one," said Papa, crossing his legs so that one thin knee jutted up balancing a green, leather-covered book and an open letter above that. "Well," said Mama, "a great-aunt is a great-aunt."
This remark my younger brother Toby and I considered at length.
Papa is usually a school teacher and is a man who has read a great many books, but who has spent very little time at the farm of his Aunt Millenium. Our great-aunt has the distinction of having Millenium for a first name. "I'm sure it will be very simple for all of us to become acclimated to a farm, at least for a summer," said Papa. "Aunt Millenium most certainly cannot stay on_ there alone." "Most certainly not," said Mama, who is always saying she agrees with Papa about everything except those things which are practical. If she at this time thought our stay on a farm and our turning farmers out of the realm of the practical, she was undoubtedly right. "And then Lavinia Elizabeth can live with us there and continue working on her uh whatever it is," said my mother, talking about my older sister. "The Bifurcated Existence of the Elizabethans," supplied Toby, who is very precocious for his age. "Yes," said Mama, nodding, "she can finish it on the farm." I chewed on my hair. It was supposed to be cut wind-blown, but it Page 540 was cut so infrequently that often the front locks, when I leaned forward, could be stretched to my mouth.
Papa said it would all lead to nearsightedness in the end. RK * & BOCSVILLE, where Great-Aunt Millenium lives, gets very muddy in the spring.
Papa stopped our gray Ford at the Bogsville Combination Depot and Feed Store and stepped out of the car into the mud. "Oh my," said Papa, and we all looked away as we heard the suction noise of Papa pulling out his feet. "Quite a bit of mud this time of year," called Papa to a man leaning in the doorway of the depot. "Some," said the man. "We're wondering if we can get through to it's the place Aunt -... Papa's voice faded away in the distance. "The man does not seem very friendly," I observed to Mama, as Papa made inquiries. "It would be nicer if there were more trees,"' said Lavinia Elizabeth, leaning toward the Sunny car window and squinting through her glasses while holding her place in her book with one hand. "Well, of course," said Toby, "the deciduous trees have not fully leafed as yet." "No, they haven't, have they, as yet?" agreed Mama brightly. We could tell she was trying to keep up Our spirits.
Mama can be very courageous. Lavinia Elizabeth looked at Toby, and then she picked up her book AUNT MILLENIUM's again. 541
Just then Papa came slush-ing back to the car.
"Did you get muddy?" asked Toby. Mama frowned at Toby.
"Oh, it was nothing, really," Papa tried furtively to scrape his shoes on the running-board. We pretended not to notice. Papa looked very apologetic. He was being very humble because he was feeling guilty. Toby and I knew. He had, at the last minute, taken out two of his white shirts and replaced them with a volume of Restoration Plays, even though boxes of his books were coming by express. The only time Mama had ever really got angry about Papa's peculiar way of packing was the time he had substituted three volumes of Victorian poetry for Mama's two nightgowns and best blue serge.
"So this is Bogsville," said Mama.
Lavinia Elizabeth looked up from her book. "At any rate," she said, "I'll be quite isolated enough to finish my part of the book. I'll be able to concentrate."
GREAT-Aunt Millenium came out on her back porch to meet us. Our car slued and then mired itself at the end of her boardwalk. We got out of the car and started carrying in our things to Aunt Millenium's house.
Papa left his shoes by the scraper and walked around in his stocking feet. We had the three bedrooms upstairs. Lavinia Elizabeth and I were to share a room.
"This will be rather inconvenient," said Lavinia Elizabeth.
"You'll have to learn to be neat," said Mama to me.
I did not say anything. Lavinia is very smart, and I am very shy and uncouraegous around very smart people—especially my sister who is collaborating on a book with two men, a graduate student like herself, and a college teacher.
"How old are you?" said Great-Aunt Millenium to Lavinia Elizabeth.
"I'm only twenty-five," said my sister. Everyone said it was quite wonderful of Lavinia Elizabeth to be only twenty-five and to have done so much.
"Twenty-five and nothing but a book to your credit! What's he like, the one who's a graduate student, Lavinia Elizabeth?" asked Great-Aunt Millenium.
"He is brilliant," answered my sister, "and he thinks I have a good mind." Lavinia looked down at her feet. Her glasses slid forward on her nose.
"My word," said Great-Aunt Millenium, "is that all? It must be the way you do your hair. I've got a magazine that tells you if you want an uplift—Don't you ever notice what's in that kind of magazines?"
"I never read that kind of literature," replied Lavinia Elizabeth, pushing up her glasses.
"My word!" said Aunt Millenium. Papa coughed very loudly, and Mama began to ask about dinner. Toby and I stared at Great-Aunt Millenium.
"You can go fishing here, if you go after your own worms," Great-Aunt Millenium said to Toby.
"Oh," said Toby, "I don't think I'd care for worms."
"That's something Toby's never 542 had the opportunity to do," said Papa. "My word!" Millenium. Said Great-Aunt THE next morning we got up very early. All of us except Lavinia Elizabeth were to help on the farm, and even she was to help when we needed her. Great-Aunt Millenium had a hired hand for whom, later in the summer, she said she was extremely grateful.
Papa had ordered winter wheat for Great-Aunt Millenium before we came, and then he and Mama had picked up one or two other things from which they expected to make a lot of money. All in all, it was to be a very growing summer. Great-Aunt Millenium's hired hand waited in the kitchen for Papa. "This is Jake," said Great Aunt Millenium to Papa.
Jake grunted slightly.. "How do you do," said Papa.
Toby and I looked at each other.
Papa did not look very much like a farmer.
Jake did not seem to be too impressed, either.
They were going to do something to fence posts, Jake said.
Papa followed Jake. We hoped it wouldn't take Papa too long to get acclimated.
Toby and I went outside. We stopped by some bright yellow crocuses. 'They bloomed down at the end of the yard.
Beyond them a clay wash stretched downhill, yellow and muddy. We looked at the crocuses. Great-Aunt Millenium stood behind us. She smiled and Toby let her put her hand on his head. The sun was bright. It was a good summer, we decided.
Mama said she would help also. She would help with the farming.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 "The farm animals?" asked Great Aunt Millenium. "Well, perhaps not the big farm animals," said Mama hesitantly. "The chickens," decided Aunt Millenium.
Toby and I were to feed them and Mama was to collect the eggs.
Mama was very enthusiastic.
After we fed them that afternoon, Mama went in with her basket. In a little while we heard Mama say, "Shoo," very fiercely and then again, "Shoo."
Then the door.
Opened and Mama came out of the hen coop. She went down to the shed where Jake kept the tools for the farm. In a moment she came out with the bee veiling and long leather gloves that Jake used when disturbing the bees. "The chickens refuse to get off the nests," she said to Lavinia Elizabeth and me. She adjusted the long, four-sided veiling and pulled down the veils. When Papa saw Mama in her egg gathering costume, he stopped and opened his mouth and then closed it "IT am having a little trouble getting acclimated to the chickens," said Mama in a slightly defensive, but slightly bitter tone. She set down the evening bucket of eggs and peered through the thick veiling at Papa. "It's the chickens  they cluck at me...."
Papa said he thought her new green hat with the net and spangles would be as effective in the long run, but Mama continued using the bee veiling and leather gloves. Papa's books came, but Papa had very little time to look at them. He brought down a bookcase from the attic and put it up, filled with his books, in Great-Aunt Millenium's AUNT MILLENIUM'S parlor. He would run his hands along the backs of the books and then go to sleep. "It is amazing how much sleep I wish I had more of," said Papa. Papa's seeds and other orders came. He had a surprise for Great Aunt Millenium. "It's peanuts," said Papa. "We'll plow up that empty pasture and plant peanuts." Papa's aunt stared at him. 'Then she said, "Well, Henry, I doubt if this is exactly the climate for peanuts." "It'll be all right if we have a late fall," said Papa. He was very eager. Great-Aunt Millenium didn't say very much after that, but Jake would not co-operate. "I don't want to have nothin' to do with it," said Jake. So Papa spent a great deal of time planting his peanuts all by himself.
Toby and I would go out and watch him sometimes.
This work made him even more tired, he said.
Mama said, "Well, you can always plant another pasture."
Jake would only look very glum. He looked very glum most of the summer. "I’m worried about Lavinia Elizabeth," said Great-Aunt Millenium. "She don't get out enough." WHEN the first crop of hay came on, we all went out on the wagons. "But I don't have anything to wear," said Lavinia Elizabeth, "'besides " "You're way ahead of schedule," said Mama. "Besides Aunt Millenium thinks you're too pale." She wore Jake's overalls with a belt around the middle "'to hold her in 'em," as Great-Aunt Millenium 543 said.
Toby drove the wagon, and Lavinia Elizabeth and I tramped and settled the hay. "Stack it!"
Jake would yell, and Lavinia and I would run about on top the hay. "I’m never sure exactly just what we're supposed to be doing," Lavina confided to me. I felt very close and friendly toward her. We both worked very hard, but not as hard as Papa, who had a difficult time landing the piles of hay on the wagon.
Toby got along fine with the horses after he gave up saying "halt" to them and consented to yell "whoa!"
Then one hot afternoon we came riding into the yard on the top of a load of hay and noticed a strange car in the backyard. Great-Aunt Millenium and Mama were in the backyard talking to a man. "It's Andrew Nichols," said Lavina Elizabeth, and she lay flat on the hay. "Cover me up," she said. It was a collaborator on her book, the younger one. I had seen him at home once or twice. "Where's Lavinia Elizabeth?" yelled Great-Aunt Millenium.
Jake stopped the team. "Here!" Lavinia Elizabeth stood up in the hay. She picked at the hay leaves in her hair. "How do you do again," called Andrew from down below. He looked very surprised. "Can I help you get down?" Lavinia Elizabeth lay on her back on the hay and Papa and I held her arms as she slid.
Andrew caught her. "Thank you, Andrew," said Lavinia Elizabeth with great dignity. She shook out her hair. She looked very small in Jake's big overalls with the belt around the middle. She did not look the way she usually seemed to look—not at all. 
  AUGust 1948
"I came back about the book—I wanted to go over some things . . . ." Andrew looked a little vague.
"And he came to see you," Aunt Millenium spoke heartily.
Andrew and, "yes," then he said "yes" again in a different way, and looked very pleased.
"Oh!" said Lavinia Elizabeth and she put on her glasses and stared at him.
Jake started the horses, and we went to the barn to unload.
Andrew shared Toby's room. He and Lavinia Elizabeth worked very hard on the book.
"About the chaos of the Copernican age . . ." began Lavinia Elizabeth.
"You look very different with a sun-tan," interrupted Andrew.
They had put a table on the back porch and were working there.
"I'm very pleased about the book," said Great-Aunt Millenium.
After supper one night, Great-Aunt Millenium came up to our room. "I'll help you with your hair," she said to Lavinia. Lavinia Elizabeth looked very young in her nightgown, sitting on her bare feet.
"How is your book progressing?"
"Well," said Lavinia Elizabeth, "the book . . . well, the book is fine, I guess." Then she got up and kissed Great-Aunt Millenium on the cheek. "I don't know exactly what's progressing," she said and her cheeks looked very red.
"WELL," said Papa, "there should be more box-elders than this with those peanuts." He had turned very brown in the sun also.
"It beats me," he said.
"Say," said Papa to Aunt Millenium, "is Jake always this taciturn?"
"Well, he don't talk more than most of the people here."
"You know," said Andrew, "the first Sunday we went to church after I arrived, the bishop said this town was more like New England than any place in the West. The people are lovable only after you know them."
"I believe it," said Papa, "at any rate, the put about New England." He yawned. "If I'm not hungry, I'm sleepy. They'll never know me this fall back at school."
"Well, none of us are very pale any more," said Mama, through her mask of cold cream which she seemed to wear a great deal of the time. "I'd wear this in the coop, but the effect might be fatal," she said.
Andrew and Lavinia Elizabeth went out for walks often after dinner. One evening they came into the house and into the parlor where we were all sitting.
"We've been out for some fresh air, Elizabeth and I," said Andrew.
"There is certainly a lot of fresh air outside," he added heartily.
Lavinia Elizabeth and Andrew went to find it more and more difficult to make conversation with us," remarked Papa.
Great-Aunt Millenium smiled while she tatted. She rubbed her cat with her foot. "It'll be different after he ask you for her," said Great-Aunt Millenium.
"Oh," I said looking up, "is it a kind of a secret now?" AUNT MILLENIUM'S I had been reading a great many of Great-Aunt Millenium's hidden novels. "Oh," I repeated. "Oh!" said Papa. Mama smiled at Aunt Millenium through her cold cream. 'Toby yawned. The summer was nearly over, and we all decided the peanut crop was a failure, even though Papa had had a triumphant afternoon when the plants had really sprouted. The only trouble was the peanuts at the other end had failed to materialize as they did in the picture. "Not enough time, I guess," said Papa moodily. He had had to take a great many comments from the townspeople who frequently stopped to inspect his peanut crop. The book was finished, yet Andrew kept hanging around. "He's getting up the courage," said Great-Aunt Millenium. "Well, I wish he'd hurry," said Papa, "the whole thing makes me very nervous." Lavinia Elizabeth would sit before our mirror after we were supposed to be in bed. She would take off her glasses and Jean forward, and then she would smile at herself. It was late August when Andrew and Papa went walking up to see the failed peanut crop. When they came back, we knew it was over, and Great-Aunt Millenium cooked a big special dinner in honor of Andrew and Lavinia Elizabeth. It was all very romantic. I did not even mind the chance drops of water slipping down my face from my curls, I was so interested in watching them. Lavinia Elizabeth smiled at Andrew and he smiled at her. I felt a lump in my throat when Lavinia Elizabeth would be so lovely just with smiling at Andrew.