[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Page 529
Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NaTIONs" THE TWENTY-FOURTH: The commemoration of the anniversary of the entrance of the Pioneers into this valley was celebrated last month with appropriate services in the large Tabernacle, an immense concourse of people being in attendance. It was forty-one years since the company of Pioneers arrived where Salt Lake City now stands. The grand organ was handsomely draped with the stars and stripes, and a steel engraving of President Brigham Young hung in the centre among the national colors.
Underneath it a banner bore the one word "Unity." The three stands were draped with national flags, and the platform in front of the stands, used on such occasions, was tastefully ornamented with flowers and plants in bloom, On one side was the head and horns of a buffalo, with its long, shaggy hair, and on the other the very old flag of stars and stripes, that was flung out to the mountain breeze from Ensign Peak on their first visit to the mountains, two days after their arrival  Wilford Woodruff APPRECIATION: I have been very much gratified with the literary attainments and pleasant tone of the editorials in your paper. I have certainly a very different idea of the trials and struggles of the Mormon Pioneers, from what I had before. I wanted to know the standing of the women rights' advocates, among your people, and I have been gratified indeed  Mrs. A. Clark, Nantucket, R. I.
Fair are the flowers and the children, but their subtle suggestion is fairer; Rare is the rose burst of dawn, but the secret that clasps it is rarer.
Sweet the exultance of song, but the strain that precedes it is sweeter, And never was the poem yet writ, but the meaning out-mastered the metre.
Richard Realf NOTES AND NEWS: The announcement that Louisa M. Alcott's home at Concord, Mass., is to be sold, leads to the suggestion that it be bought by subscription and converted into a home for poor children, as a memorial to the author so well beloved by young readers. MARICOPA STAKE: Minutes of the Relief Society Conference of Maricopa Stake, held at the Bowery, Mesa City June 21st, 1888, Elizabeth G. McDonald presiding. The different branches of the Society were well represented; there were a number of the brethren also present. Coun.
Morris said, "Let us go to the Lord for strength to carry us through our trials.
Felt to respond cheerfully to every call made upon her. Prest. Charles I.
Robson felt the importance of the times we are living in; thought the day was near at hand when the reign of righteousness would commerce upon the earth. Prest. E. McDonald felt that we had truly had a feast.
Gave counsel to the sisters to have a care in their remarks before their children. "Be careful how you speak of your neighbors before them."
Asked the Lord's blessings upon us, that we might increase in good works. Sarah M. Pomeroy, Secretary EDITORIAL NOTES: The Deseret University, with its facilities for education, its modern improvements, the delightful grounds, and the suitable situation, enclosed, as it is, and shaded on all sides, is, indeed, a desirable locality for such an institution. It has the advantage, also, of an able Faculty, and ought to rank high as a seat of learning. Page 530
Woman’s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WOMEN are trying to correct some important misfortunes among the nations of the world. They became increasingly cognizant of these ills at the last meeting of the International Council of Women in Philadelphia, toward the end of last year. They learned that some countries have very unsanitary milk and some countries have no milk. In at least fifteen nations women are not yet allowed to vote. In Poland live 600,000 orphan children born out of wedlock during the war. The women are working to carry out a three-year program dealing with peace, health, relief, and education. JARRELL, only woman school superintendent in a United States city of more than 200,000 population, occupies that position in Atlanta, Georgia. When she began teaching, she asked to work with the underprivileged children. She has introduced many reforms into the conservative Atlanta schools, among them the startling innovation of coeducation.F RANCES CLEVELAND, as the bride of Grover Cleveland, was the youngest First Lady in the United States. Since her recent death at 88, only five former Presidents' wives still live.