[Vol35 | August 1948 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Optional Lessons in Lieu Lyon]

' Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Lesson 2
The Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith (continued) Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, November 23, 1948 THE PRESIDENCY A UNIT-THE THREE ARE ONE SIDNEY RIGDON JOSEPH SMITH FREDERICK G WILLIAMS Sidney Rigdon In many of the early revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord declared that a "marvelous work" was about to come forth on the earth and that the "field is white already to harvest."
Nowhere is the truth of this figure of speech seen JOSEPH SMITH FREDERICK G. WILLIAMS more clearly than in the preparatory work which the Lord had done in raising up men to assume positions of leadership in his Church. Sidney Rigdon, who served as first counselor to the Prophet Joseph Smith from 1833 to 1844 exemplifies the realization of this promise to a remarkable LESSON DEPARTMENT degree. He was born in Pennsylvania on February 19, 1793. In his twenty-fifth year, he joined the "Regular Baptists" and soon was one of their licensed preachers. In the autumn of 1821, he became the full-time minister of the First Baptist Church in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, and through his eloquent, preaching soon built up a large congregation. But the spirit of the Lord was at work in preparation for the restoration of the gospel and Sidney resigned his pulpit after two years and turned to manual labor, being unable to satisfy his conscience with the doctrines he was preaching. His study of the Bible led him to the conclusion that the true Church of Christ, as he read of it in the New Testament, was not on the earth.
About this time, he made the acquaintance of two _ professional teachers who were likewise dissatisfied with the existing forms of Christianity.
These men Alexander Campbell and Walter Scott in association with Sidney Rigdon, soon commenced preaching the need of the "restoration of all things" of which they read in the Bible, and Sidney moved to Ohio where he became the minister of a large congregation of people who called themselves "Reformed Baptists" and then later "Disciples of Christ," but whom the people generally referred to as "Campbellites" after the dominant leader of the movement.
These people preached that the true Christian Church should discard all man-made creeds, baptize by immersion only those who were capable of believing and had repented of their sins, and then held up to them the hope that God would ultimately restore the power by which 569 the Holy Ghost could be conferred. At Mentor, Ohio, Sidney Rigdon was extremely popular and his influence was felt for many miles around, as he circuited about to other preaching stations for more than.
Fifty miles from his home station. On one of these preaching missions to the west in the summer of 1829, he converted a young man 'from New York Parley P.
Pratt who showed such ability as a preacher of the new doctrine that Parley was soon called to become a full-time minister for the "Campbellite" church.
While engaged as a "Campbellite" missionary near Palmyra, New York, in August 1830, Parley heard of the Book of Mormon and the restoration of the gospel and soon accepted the truth.
After converting some of his own family in New York State, Parley P.
Pratt was called on a mission to the Indians. On the way he stopped at Mentor, Ohio, to acquaint his former friend, Sidney Rigdon, with the fact that the very thing they had been hoping would occur, had occurred, and that the true gospel had already been restored. Sidney Rigdon soon accepted the message as the fulfillment of his prayers and most of his large congregation followed him into the waters of baptism and spiritual regeneration, so well had he prepared them for the coming of the latterday work.
This was in November 1830, and the following month Sidney Rigdon went to visit the Prophet at Fayette, New York, and was called by revelation to preach the restored gospel (See section 35).
From that time until the death of Joseph Smith, the two were closely associated in the leadership of the. Church. 570 On March 18, 1833, Sidney Rigdon was ordained and set apart as first counselor to Joseph Smith in the First Presidency of the Church and declared in a revelation to be accounted "...
Equal with thee in holding the keys of this last kingdom" (section go:6). President Rigdon undertook this work with zeal. To follow the inter-workings of these two men - would require a volume. However, the important items of activities can be briefly mentioned. One of the first tasks they did together was in revising by revelation the King James version of the Bible, Joseph doing the revising and Sidney acting as the secretary. 'Together Joseph and Sidney received the great vision found in section 76 of the Doctrine and Covenants. He accompanied the Prophet on various missions into Canada, Michigan, New York, Indiana, Illinois and Washington, D. C., in furtherance of the missionary work or the settlement of the saints' problems. When Joseph was absent from Church headquarters, such as in the summer of 1834 when he journeyed to and from Missouri with Zion's Camp, Sidney Rigdon directed the activities of the Church at Kirtland. President Rigdon was endowed with a gift of great eloquence, occupying the platform or pulpit on many important occasions. He stood firmly by the Prophet during the Missouri difficulties, spending part of the winter of 1838-1839 with Joseph and the other brethren in jail in Missouri, until his health failed and he was released. He did much good in Illinois in helping to gain a friendly welcome for the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1948 saints who were being exiled from Missouri.
There was one element in his character that caused friction between him and the Prophet. He was self-willed and at times challenged the leadership of Joseph and the authority of the "revealed word," attempting to force his opinions upon the Prophet and upon the Church, with the result that the Prophet was forced to rebuke him. At general conference of the Church, held at Nauvoo in October 1843, President Joseph Smith expressed dissatisfaction with him as a counselor and did not desire to retain him.
Through the intercession of Hyrum Smith, however, he was retained in his office, but he never again seemed to manifest the spirit of leadership he had formerly possessed. He moved to Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, in the spring of 1844 with the intention of presiding over the branches of the Church in the eastern portion of the United States. The Prophet's martyrdom caused him to hurry back to Nauvoo where he pressed his claim as "guardian" of the Church, but the Quorum of the Twelve was sustained as the presiding authority of the Church and Sidney Rigdon, disappointed and embittered, was later excommunicated. He returned to Pennsylvania and then settled in New York where he organized a church on the pattern of the restored church but it did not succeed. He unwaveringly adhered to his original statement concerning the Book of Mormon, denying any statement imputing the authorship of the work to himself. His death occurred July 14, 1876. He had given much to the Church, but personal pride and love for LESSON DEPARTMENT authority overpowered the spirit of God in him.
Frederick G. Williams
When Parley P. Pratt and his missionary companions arrived in Ohio in the fall of 1830 on their way to Missouri, among the number they converted, in addition to Sidney Rigdon, was a man of varied abilities—Frederick G. Williams. He was born in Connecticut on October 28, 1787, but as the rocky New England country had reached a saturation point in agricultural population, he journeyed with thousands of other Connecticut youths to northeastern Ohio, which Connecticut claimed was her "Western Reserve." There Frederick G. Williams prospered. He became an influential business man and took up the practice of Medicine. Few doctors on the frontier in those days were trained in medical college, but acquired their training by experience with other doctors or in taking correspondence courses in the properties of various herbs and chemical compounds. Such was the training of Dr. Williams, yet coupling this information with much good common sense and a clever ability to diagnose common ailments, he attained a fair measure of success in his profession.
Dr. Williams had become so well prepared for the acceptance of the restoration of the gospel by Sidney Rigdon and other "Campbellite" preachers that he embraced the new religion with heart and soul. Desirous of bending his efforts to the promotion of the cause and leaving his medical practice, he started off with Parley P. Pratt and the others
turning to Ohio the following year, he forged to the front as a man of great leadership ability and when the First Presidency was organized on March 18, 1833, Elder Williams was set apart as second counselor to Joseph Smith, being eighteen years older than the Prophet. For about four years he labored diligently in this capacity, being declared equal with Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon in "...holding the keys of this last kingdom" (D. & C. 90:6). During these years, he accompanied the Prophet on the trip with Zion's Camp to Missouri. Returning to Kirtland, he worked diligently on the project for construction of the Kirtland Temple. With Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon he designed the interior of that sacred structure, and then gave liberally of his means for its construction.
When the Church printing plant at Independence, Missouri, was destroyed by mob violence in the summer of 1833, the Church was without a publication house to print its literature. President Williams, being financially able, took a leading part in establishing a printing office at Kirtland, known as "F. G. Williams and Company" and continued the publication of the Church periodical at Kirtland. With Oliver Cowdery and Sidney Rigdon, he was appointed to compile the revelations that the Prophet had received and prepare them for publication. This resulted in the publication of the first edition of the Doctrine and Covenants that was issued from his shop in Kirtland in the late summer of 1835. This was probably his most noteworthy accomplishment. His chief contribution to the

Image 1 Transcription (Complete with all advertisement text)
Church was his leadership in temporal matters.
The Prophet and President Williams commenced to have misunderstandings as the contended that the Prophet was exceeding his authority when he professed to receive revelations dealing with temporal matters. On the 7th of November, 1837, he was dropped as a member of the First Presidency during a conference held at Far West, Missouri, and Hyrum Smith replaced him. The estrangement became greater, and he was finally excommunicated from the Church in March 1839. But at the conference held in Nauvoo in April 1840, he appeared and asked to be readmitted to the Church. Prophesying over Smith plied his case for him; he was baptized and died in full fellowship at Quincy, Illinois, on October 10, 1842. His descendants came to Utah and are faithful members of the Church.
William Law
When Hyrum Smith was called to the office of Patriarch to the Church in 1841, the position of second counselor in the Presidency of the Church was filled by William Law. He was born in Canada in 1809, being four years younger than the Prophet. He was converted primarily by John Taylor and, some time in 1839, moved to Nauvoo where he soon became one of its leading business men. He was a member of the city council, operated a store and several mills, and was engaged in the real estate business and as a building contractor.
As a counselor in the First Presidency, his greatest support to Joseph Smith came from his advice

Plan to enroll now for BUSINESS TRAINING Fall term begins Sept. 6, 1948 at L. D. S. Business College 5 to 8 P.M.
The fall term offers many opportunities. New classes in shorthand, accounting, typing, character education, and many others will begin the Tuesday following Labor Day.
The records of more than 60 years prove that L.D.S. Business College training pays.
Special rates for returned missionaries.
Write for free literature.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah

[Advertisement showing "1,346 CATALOGUED COLORS"]
THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN
Bennett's PAINT
Bring in a sample of almost any color you want to match ... any color in a fabric, wallpaper, flower or any other object ... and we will match it perfectly in paint.
BENNETT'S 65 West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho

Image 2 Transcription (Complete with all advertisement text)
concerning the temporal affairs of the Church and the management of its business interests. This was a period of great growth in Nauvoo and the Church was fostering many projects for the city's expansion. Toward the end of 1843 he began to show signs of apostacy and associated himself with the enemies of the Prophet and of the saints generally.
The result of this was his excommunication from the Church on April 18, 1844. He soon joined forces with other discontented factions and sponsored the publication of the much discussed Nauvoo Expositor, which contributed so much to the Prophet's assassination. He moved to Wisconsin, where he died on January 19, 1892, still bitter toward his former Prophet and the Latter-day Saints.
Topics for Discussion and Study
1. Read the glorious testimony contained in Doctrine and Covenants section 76:50-24.
2. What factors could lead a man who had received such a wonderful manifestation, as the vision of the three degrees of glory (see. 76) to depart from the Church as did Frederick G. Williams?
3. Read a portion from the Inspired Version of the Bible, as contained in Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1 (Matthew 24) and note the improved quality of Joseph Smith's revision.
4. Read the statement of Sidney Rigdon's son John during his interview with President Snow and other Church leaders in Salt Lake City, Improvement Era 3: 636-638.
References
Improvement Era, Vol. 3:'77, 218, 265, 352, 487, 579, and 636-638. Improvement Era, Vol. 42:736. Improvement Era, Vol 43:206. Jenson, L.D.S. Biographical Encyclopedia Vol. 1.
SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. 
The new Sears store is completely air conditioned
. . . cool as a canyon breeze
Main or State at 9th South Salt Lake City Park Free
SEARS
Professional and Social Stationery
COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULERS
DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Bickards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah
No Substitutes
In our years of food distribution, we have experienced that Nationally-known brands are better because they are packed to "quality standards" and not merely to sell at a price. We have the wellknown brands you want ... ... not something "just as good" ... and, too, you'll find it costs no more to buy better foods at O.P.S. food stores.
O.P. SKAGGS FOOD System STORES
For a Well-balanced Mind—Well-balanced Education
Prospective leaders must be trained for success in their assigned callings, which will in them to make their greatest contribution to society. The Utah State Agricultural College is sound, wellbalanced education, which will fit them to make life a success and a pleasure, both to themselves and the society in which they live.
USAC is located in an ideal college town in beautiful Cache Valley in northern Utah. It is a clean city of fine homes and churches. The L. D. S. Institute of Religion, directed by Dr. Franklin L. West, aids student development.
Sixteen hundred courses are offered in the sixty departments of the following Schools:
Agriculture Forest, Range, and Commerce Wildlife Management Education Home Economics Engineering
FALL QUARTER Registration—September 23-25 Quarter Ends December 17
WINTER QUARTER Registration—January 3-5 Quarter Ends March 18
For Catalog, address the President
UTAH STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Logan