Notes from the Field (Continued from page 463) ment 100 percent and each president deliver the full quota of quilts at our conference. We took the opportunity to display them, in all their showing of quality and beauty, in the recreation hall of our new, magnificent edifice, which had been dedicated only the night before. It was a lovely sight to see, depicting co-operation, service, and dependability. Yes, our dear Relief Society sisters had 'sewed,' and this was the 'harvest.' Watch This Month... The month stamped along with your address on every copy of the Magazine you receive. It shows the month in which your Relief Society Magazine subscription expires. By watching this month, you can renew your subscription early enough so that no numbers of the Magazine will be missed. We have always advised that you allow at least one month to elapse, after receipt of your subscription by us, before expecting the first copy of your new subscription. Now, in wartime, it is even more important that your new or renewal subscription reach us well in advance of the month for which it is to begin. The Government's rationing of magazine paper places strict limitations on the number of copies we can print. Unless your subscription is renewed at least 60 days before the expiration month shown on your address label, several months may elapse before it can be reinstated. Your local Relief Society Magazine representative may solicit your renewal earlier this year, but if she does not reach you two months before your subscription expires, hand your renewal subscription to her or send it direct to FOR WARWORK or Peacetime EMPLOYMENT intensive through business training will help you to qualify for successful office work. Ask for information about courses, tuition, and employment service. L. D. S.. ?- BUSINESS COLLEGE 70
North Main Salt Lake City 1 COMPREHENSIVE HISTORY OF THE CHURCH... By B. H. ROBERTS 6 volumes Special Cash Price $22.50
The Restored Church........ $2.00 By WM. E. BERRETT Essentials of Church History...... $2.00 By JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44
East South Temple Street Salt Lake City 10, Utah "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine Brigham Young University offers Standard College Work the year around Make preparations now to attend the Fall Quarter For those who cannot do residence work at the ?Friendly School? The Extension Division offers Home Study Courses Brigham Young University Provo, Utah Can More to Win the War Home canning is no secret weapon?but it?s a winner in the fight for food
GET EXTRA SUGAR NOW
Stamp 40 is good for 5 lbs. At your grocer's. See your ration board for additional sugar up to 20 lbs. Per person. Application may be made any time up to February 28, 1945. Regular ration stamps 30, 31, and 32 are good for 5 lbs. Each until canceled by OPA. U AND I SUGAR. Always ask for U and I Sugar. It's a product of western farms and factories guaranteed for canning, cooking, and all sweetening purposes UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY