[Vol31 | August 1944 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: Honest and Sharp]

441 EDITORIAL  AUGUST 1944 VOL. 31 NO. 8 "Honest and Wise Men Should Be Sought For? I, the Lord God, make you free, maketh you free. Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn.
Should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever ls less than these cometh of evil (Doc. And Cov. Sec. 98:8-10). ONCE more the time approaches in which "honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently." It is the privilege of every Latter-day Saint who is a citizen of this great nation to vote, in accordance with the laws, for the candidates of his choice in the coming primary and general elections. It is also the obligation of every Latter-day Saint, as the Lord has commanded, to seek diligently for honest and wise men.
These times are extremely critical in the history of the country, and, to many, the days that lie ahead appear menacing and forbidding, and seem to hold out a threat of conditions developing in the nation even more grave and serious than those of the present time. In such circumstances, it is of vital importance that the great mass of the citizenry express their choice, so that, in reality, the country will be ruled by the choice of the great majority, for there is wisdom in the voice of the people. Every Latter-day should.
Prayerfully study the issues involved in the coming state and national elections, and the character of the men and women seeking to represent the people, and then cast her ballot according to her convictions.
There is a great record of achievement in voting in the history of the Page 442
Saint woman Mormon woman. From the time of the organization of the Church she was granted the right to sustain in Church gatherings. The early pioneer woman possessed the franchise until Utah became a territory. Later she was again given the voting power, and a Utah woman, Seraph Young, was the first woman in the United States to vote, casting her ballot on February 21, 1870, in a Salt Lake municipal election. Throughout the years when the women of the United States were seeking a woman's suffrage amendment to the Constitution, the Mormon women joined with the national leaders and worked early and late for "The Cause." It will be twenty-four years this month since the nineteenth amendment, granting women suffrage, was added to the Constitution. Latter-day Saint women will show their appreciation of the right to vote by casting their ballots in the fall elections. It is a duty which each woman must perform for herself. Let her cast her ballot for "the honest and wise" that this country, ruled by such individuals, may ever see freedom become more firmly entrenched?that this government, "of the people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish from the earth." Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, Aug. 1, and Aug. 15, 1884 "THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION, AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL Nations"
Editorial Notes: We devote most of the editorial columns of this issue to the teachings of Joseph the Prophet given to the Relief Society in Nauvoo We trust the sisters will not only read these articles, - - - but will preserve the papers, that these important things may be kept on record. Husbands and Wives: It has often been said that there is no love so enduring, so constant and unwavering as a mother's love. This view, as a rule, I coincide with, and I think it may be as truthfully said that there is no love more ardent and irresistible than that existing between husband and wife if based upon pure principles, it breaks down all barriers, sweeping all before it with a force not easily withstood. - - greatest joy is not occasioned by his building her a fine house, nor by buying her a new dress or an organ, neither by elaborate or extravagant demonstration of affection n the presence of others. Oft times 4 silent pressure of the hand or loving glance of the eye is far more potent; they touch the tenderest chord of the heart and waken a response more eloquent than words. - - - Etka. X  Notes and News: "The women of Siam have petitioned the king to take from their husbands the right to pledge them in the payment of gambling debts." This is a legal sacrifice to which women are liable in that country by getting married. Mrs. Julia Ward Howe of Boston, delivered a lecture before the Concord School of Philosophy Saturday, July 26th, subject, "Emerson's Relation to Society." It is said to have been the principal feature of the occasion, and that "the audience was a brilliant one," as it was no doubt a critical one. This eminent, scholarly lady has won much distinction in literary and in social circles. The newspapers give a good account of the voting by women at the elections in Washington Territory. 'There has been considerable laudable enthusiasm on the matter, which has made it all the more interesting. For our own part we never have had any doubts but that women would conduct themselves with all due propriety on these public occasions, and not lose a particle of their womanliness, a wonderful characteristic wort in this day of woman's advancement. A Happy Birthday?Editor Woman's Exponent: It is a long time since you have heard from the Smithfield Relief Society, but we are trying to live up to the mission we were organized for, assisting the poor and the aged, caring for the sick, and striving to do good to all. Sister Adeline Barber is our energetic and kind President..- - Wishing the EXPONENT success 17 disseminating the truth and in showing to the world that the women of Utah are able to take cate of themselves without any outside help, I remain, your sister and co-worker, Elizabeth J. Jushaw, Smithfield, Feb. 18th, 1884.