[Vol31 | August 1944 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Sketch of My Life Smith]
Bishop?s Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Sketch of My Life. Eliza R. Snow Smith Chapter VI THE "Female Relief Society" he was organized by Joseph Smith in Nauvoo on the 17th of March, 1842. It was organized after the pattern of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with President and Counselors, and accomplished much good in administering to the sick, relieving the wants of the poor, etc. The Prophet had donated to the Society a Lot, and the frame of a house, as a commencement for establishing a home for the homeless, but the ruthless hand of persecution thwarted this benevolent purpose?the Prophet was massacred and the Saints driven from their homes. From the time of the expulsion from Nauvoo, the Female Relief Society remained in status quo until it was reorganized under the direction of Pres. Brigham Young in the year 1855, commencing in the Fifteenth Ward, S. L. City. As I had been intimately associated with, and had officiated as Secretary for the first organization, Pres. Young commissioned me to assist the Bishops in organizing Branches of the Society in their respective Wards; for, at that time, the Bishops had not acquainted themselves with the movement, and did not know how to proceed. To me it was quite a mission, and I took much pleasure in its performance. I felt quite honored and much at home in my associations with the Page 450
Bishops, and they appreciated my assistance. Each Branch of the Society, although constituting a self-governing body, and empowered to create committees and whatever officers may be needed from time to time, in accomplishing its many and increasing labors, is under the direction of its respective Bishop or presiding officer of the Ward. Not long after the re-organization of the Relief Society, Pres.
Young told me he was going to give me another mission.
Without the least intimation of what the mission consisted, I replied, "I shall endeavor to fulfil it." He said, "I want you to instruct the sisters." Altho' my heart went "pit a pat' for the time being, I did not, and could not then form an adequate estimate of the magnitude of the work before me. To carry into effect the President's requisition, I saw, at once, involved public meetings and public speaking?also travel abroad, as_ the Branches of the Society of the sisterhood extended at that time, through several Counties in Utah, and ultimately, all the valleys of the mountains?numbering, at present date, nearly three hundred; besides other Branches in the U. S., Europe, Asia, Islands of the Sea, wherever the "Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints" has established its Branches.
Some years ago, by mutual consent, the word female was dropped, and the Society called "Relief Society."
SKETCH OF MY LIFE 451 FIRST PRESIDENTS OF THE CENTRAL (GENERAL) BOARDS OF THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARIES Left to right: Louie B. Felt, Primary Association; Eliza R. Snow, Relief Society; Elmina S. Taylor, Y. L. M. I.A.
Its first duty is to look after and relieve the wants of the poor, to accomplish which committees are appointed to visit each family residing in their respective districts, at least, once every month, and report to the presiding officers. The cultivation of the members of the Society (which is composed of aged and middle-aged women) physically, mentally, morally, and spiritually, is another prominent feature of the institution, which has proved very beneficial, At the time of its organization in Salt Lake City, the Saints were very poor. And the funds of the Society were raised by contributions of carpet rags, pieces for patchwork, etc., which were converted into carpets, quilts?wool carded, spun, and knitted into socks and stockings, by the industry of the members, who met together, sometimes weekly, at others, once in two weeks, to work the crude material into wearing and saleable articles. In 1876 I was called upon to report the charitable Institutions conducted by women in Utah, to the "Woman's Department" in the Centennial Fair in Philadelphia. At that time, the number of Branches of the R. S. Was very much less than at present, but my financial Report was between ninety-two and ninety-three thousand dollars Disbursed by the Society, including relief to the poor, emigration of the poor, to assist in building Temples, schoolhouses, meeting-houses, etc.
Since that time the favorable circumstances of the L. D. Saints, have added to the facilities of many of the Branches, and they have purchased land and erected houses for their own accommodation in holding meetings?doing business, etc., also Granaries for storing wheat against a day of famine. 452 IN 1867 I organized the first Society of Young Ladies, called "Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association," under the direction of Pres. B. Young.
Subsequently the name was changed, and it is now known as "Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association," and is now organized, and in active operation in nearly every settlement in the mountains, and in each Ward in our Cities; and, after the pattern of the Relief Society, these Branches are organized in Counties (Stake capacity) with a General or Central Board, presiding over all. In August 1878, Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells and I, after attending a Conference of the Young Ladies in Farmington, Davis Co., spent an hour, waiting for the train, with Mrs. Aurelia Rogers.
During our Com versation, Mrs. R.
Expressed a desire that something more could be effected for the cultivation and improvement of the children morally and spiritually than was being done through the influence of day and Sunday-Schools.
After consulting together a few moments, I asked Mrs. R. If she was willing to take the responsibility and labor on herself of presiding over the children of that settlement, provided the Bishop of the Ward sanctioned the movement. She replied in the affirmative. The train was near, and no time to consult the Bishop; but directly after arriving home, I wrote the Bishop, and by return Mail received from him a very satisfactory response, in which he, (Bishop Hess) not only gave his permission but hearty approval accompanied with his blessing. I then informed Mrs.
