[Vol31 | August 1944 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Mourn]

Note: See the article "The Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon" by Preston Nibley, in this issue of the Magazine, P. 431 432. Visiting Teachers /Messages Sources of Strength?The Beatitudes Lesson 2?Blessed Are They That Mourn For Tuesday, November 7, 1944 "Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted" (Matt. 5:4). Objective: To point out that even thou sorrow may be appeased, and he may find c Lord. NEVER were more soulful words spoken than these. No one who grows to maturity remains untouched by sorrow?escapes mourning. People mourn for righteous reasons; some because of mistakes which they have made. This is the godly sorrow, spoken of in the Scriptures, that worketh repentance. It is the sorrow that brings reformation. All who mourn because of their weaknesses and who have a sincere desire to overcome them, are in the pathway to repentance; and true repentance brings to every soul "that peace that passeth understanding." Repentance is one of the most glorious and comforting principles revealed from heaven. Another source of righteous mourning is through the loss or misfortune of loved ones. The Master taught that mourning should be lifted above bitterness, and crushing grief. It comes to all; and if it is borne with faith and submission, it elevates, ennobles, and sanctifies the soul. To mourn with others, to share their sorrows, to sympathize with the in their misfortunes to help the, is to render a service that is satisfying and comforting. The Scriptures tell us it is better to go to the house of mourning than to the house of feasting. This is true, because when one goes into the presence of the departed he searches his soul for the meaning of life and death; he sees things in the light of eternity; and thus he is able to equate the true value of experiences, to know the permanent and satisfying, and what is only fleeting and transitory. This is a day of mourning the world over. There are many who are mourning the loss of loved ones. 472
Surely those who have lain so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom shall be blessed and comforted. The words of Isaiah, coming across the centuries, carry a spirit of hope and comfort to those who are called to mourn during these anxious and troubled days of war: The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me; because the Lord hath anointed me_ to preach good tidings unto the meek: he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound; To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn, To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he might be glorified (Isaiah, 61:1-3). How solacing are these words of the Master: "Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted."