Achievement Recognition
IN order to stimulate interest and activity in the Membership Drive, and to awaken Relief Society members to a keen appreciation of what membership in the organization means, the General Board last fall requested wards and stakes to write articles dealing with the following subjects:
1. Benefits derived in Relief Society by a new member. To be submitted by a new member. Title, "Treasures I Have Found."
2. Outstanding contribution by a new member to her organization. Not to be written by a new member. Title to be selected by writer.
3. Most effective showmanship work accomplished by a ward group.
4. Handicaps solved by an organization.
These articles were to be sifted in the stakes, and one article on each subject was to be submitted through the stakes to the General Office not later than January 31, 1940. From those submitted to the General Office, four were to be selected for publication in the Magazine.
The General Board expresses its appreciation for the splendid response of wards and stakes to this program. Many interesting accounts of membership activities have been received. The vision of Relief Society women with regard to the purposes and objectives of the Society as well as the great appreciation felt for membership in the organization is clearly revealed in the articles. We congratulate the wards and stakes upon their originality as well as upon the dignified manner in which they are conducting the Drive.
Because of the many excellent articles submitted, difficulty was experienced by the committee in determining which to select for publication. The following articles were selected not only in recognition of superior achievement but because of their value in stimulating others. The article on showmanship selected for publication in the Magazine, submitted by the Carbon Stake, will be held until a later issue.
Treasures I Have Found By DeEtte B. Stewart McKinley Ward, Wells Stake
FOR years I have been an admirer of the Relief Society and its accomplishments. I have regarded it as the most outstanding organization of our Church, but as I was ward organist, then later Sunday School organist, along with other activities, I thought I was too busy to become a member. As time went on, I felt the need of belonging to this organization and last year began attending the meetings regularly, and I found its treasures. Of these treasures, I value four most: The opportunity to serve, the association and friendship of the other members, the opportunity to gain knowledge, and the opportunity for self-development. In this article I wish to show, by relating my personal experiences as a new member, how I found these treasures and the benefits I derived from them.
I found myself enjoying the meetings immensely and learning a great deal about theology, literature, social service, nutrition, and many other things. After a short time, while attending a Theology and Testimony meeting, I did something I had been trying to do each Fast Sunday for ten years in the chapel of this same building?I bore my testimony. Although I have played the piano in public since I was a small child, I have been afflicted with a terrible fright if I attempted to say one word before an audience. I felt this handicap keenly. Bearing my testimony in Relief Society seemed to give me courage to stand in Fast meeting a little later and thank my Heavenly Father for His many blessings to me. A short time after this, a member of our ward Relief Society presidency asked me if I would give a talk on tithing the following Tuesday. The very thought of it made me ill, but I realized the Relief Society was giving me a chance to overcome this timidity; surely with the help of the Lord I could do it. With a trembling voice, I gave that little talk and was surprised to find how much easier it became each time I attempted to express myself before the group. As I listened to class leaders give their lessons so beautifully last winter, I hoped some day to be able to do the same but didn't dream the opportunity would be mine so soon. At the beginning of this last season a theology teacher was needed, and I was asked to fill this position. I told the officers I felt so incapable, that all the other class leaders were so experienced and were such wonderful teachers. Our ward president said, "They weren't always so experienced, and they weren't always such wonderful teachers. They, too, had a first time." Could there be more encouraging words than those!
In order that I might be able to overcome the affliction of timidity and that I might be inspired to gather the right material and present it to the class as He would have me do, I offered prayers to my Heavenly Father, both at home and at the Temple. Then came hours and hours of study. I shall never forget that first lesson I attempted to present. As I looked over that audience and felt the sweet spirit there, I wondered where else one could find a group of women such as that. They were not there to criticise but were with me, helping me; as I looked at their sweet faces I felt that I loved each and every one of them for what they were doing for me. The struggle was won, and that terrible fright was gone. I do not know that any one benefits by my classes, although I earnestly pray that they do, but this I do know, that I am greatly benefited and have been paid a hundred fold for all my time and effort.
Not long ago as I sat one afternoon with my books?two books on the Life and Works of St. Paul, the Bible, Teachings of Joseph Smith, Doctrine and Covenants, dictionary, encyclopedia, Illustrated World History, and two maps of Europe, an ancient one and one of today?some friends called. Answering their joking remarks, I said laughingly, "Yes, I am going to school, and the Relief Society is my teacher. The Relief Society seems to have a way of knowing just what every one needs and then helping them; they must have known I needed a theological education."
On another occasion, as our two little boys knelt to say their evening prayer, one of them said, "Please help us to be good boys and not make too much noise while Mama studies her Relief Society."
As I conclude this article, I am reminded that writing it is still another of the many opportunities for self-development that the Relief Society offers. I thank my Father in Heaven for this wonderful organization and humbly pray that many others might become new members and find?
THE TREASURES I HAVE FOUND.