Joan of Arc as Portrayed in Literature By Blanche Kendall McKey
Even the casual reader of history will not fail to note that out of the great mass of people who dominate the ever-changing scenes which constitute "the past," a few dramatic, appealing figures stand forth boldly, challenging the interest and curiosity of each succeeding generation. Just such a vivid figure is Joan of Arc.
An Enigma of the Ages
For over five hundred years the Maid of Orleans has been the subject of controversy among men. Before the short eighteen years which she lived had gone by, men of the soil of France and of England, military leaders, theologians, and kings, had contended hotly as to whether she was a saint or a witch, and the differences of opinion did not die out with her death fagots. But she not only puzzled her contemporaries, she has likewise baffled succeeding generations. Religionists and scientists have sought to explain her in terms of doctrine and science, but they have not succeeded very well. She remains forever an enigma of the Middle Ages.
An Inspiration to Writers
The study of Joan of Arc as reflected in literature is fascinating. Since 1429 she has been a lamp of inspiration to creative writers. Much that has been penned about her has been lost, but an abundance of material has been preserved and is constantly being augmented. In an incomplete bibliography brought down to 1894, there are found 667 works that deal with her life in general. There are 849 monographs that deal with different phases of her life. There are 160 dramas in verse and 21 operas?2,286 works in all. The compiler, Pierre Lanery d' Arc, says that it would have been easy to pass the 3,000 mark had certain other publications been taken into account. All these contributions antedate 1894. Since that time hundreds have been added.
Contradictory Portrayals of Her
In acquainting oneself with the abundance of material inspired by the Maid of France, one is first of all impressed with the great amount of reiteration to be found in it. From one angle of approach or another, similar ideas are constantly occurring. There appear to be but a limited number of possible explanations of Joan in literature. She is portrayed as a heretic and a witch; as a saintly maid; as a courageous, love-craving woman; as a subject
JOAN OF ARC IN LITERATURE 585
of ridicule and a tool of the clergy; as a shrewd, natural girl. By selecting outstanding examples to be found in each of these classifications one can gain a fairly clear idea of Joan as creative writers conceive her. Let us choose Shakespeare's La Pucelle in "Henry VI," Mark Twain's Maid in "The Recollections of Joan of Arc," Schiller's "Die Jungfrau," Voltaire's "La Pucelle," and France's "Vie de Jeanne d' Arc," ending with Bernard Shaw's "Saint Joan."
On May 30, 1431, when Joan of Arc climbed the high scaffold to her death, she had been found guilty, among other things, of being a heretic and a witch. This is the picture we get of her a century and a half later in the first part of Shakespeare's "Henry VI." But the portrayal is full of inconsistencies.
Pictures of a Fallen Angel
In the beginning of the play she is drawn with a certain amount of sympathy. King Charles addresses her as "Bright star of Venus, fallen down on earth." She is a heroic Amazon: "Fight till the last gasp; I will be your guard," she cries. Later one is uncertain as to her character. In the end she becomes a wicked impure woman, who needlessly repudiates her own father; a falsifier in league with the devil, who aids her in her fight against the righteous cause of England. While the Pucelle of "Henry VI," taken as a whole, is utterly untrue to history, in certain respects she suggests the real Joan of Arc. She is like her in personal appearance, in her warlike attitude, in her patriotism, and in her power to influence people.
Pictures of a Saint
Among the many contributions that depict Joan as a saintly Maid, Mark Twain's "Recollections of Joan of Arc" stands out conspicuously. The German critic Viereck, in 1925 said that Twain's study of the Maid is probably America's greatest offering on the subject. Mr. Clemens gives the eighteen years of Joan's life in detail, holding close to historic facts, especially in the part dealing with her trial and martyrdom. His Maid is appealing, pathetic, wonder-inspiring; she actually sees saints and hears their voices. Spiritually is her fundamental characteristic. "Joan's eyes were deep and rich and wonderful beyond anything merely earthly." In Twain's creation the reader perceives a living, appealing personality, but one removed from the realism of life. She never appears without her halo. This author said of the Maid that she was "easily and by far the most extraordinary person the human race has ever produced." The Maiden Romantic Somewhat closely related to the saintly Maid is the romantic Joan; and of this type Friedrich von Schiller's "Die Jungfrau"  is an outstanding example. His contribution is one of the noblest delineations we have of the Maid of Orleans. However, it is radically untrue to history. Die Jungfrau is a girl of sixteen, beautifully moulded, with child-like features. Her body being somewhat delicate, her strength comes from on high. Animated with divine spirit, she is poetical in her actions and speech. Making a covenant with God, she is led to success so long as she subdues all traces of earthly passion. Unfortunately she falls in love with an English general, Lional, and victory deserts her. Later she overcomes desire, purifies her spirit, and saves her king, dying bravely on the field of victorious battle. According to Viereck, Schiller saw in the fate of Joan the struggle of fearless humanity against overwhelming odds. The Ridicule by Cynics Joan as a subject of ridicule and tool of the clergy is treated by two great French writers, Voltaire and Anatole France. Voltaire's "La Pucelle" is a burlesque poem in twenty-two cantos, in which the Maid figures in a variety of adventures that bear witness to her imaginary lack of chastity. Charles VII, Agnes Sorel, Dunois, and other historical characters with Joan make up the action. The poem is comparable to "Don Juan" rather than to any other work. Although the Maid is pictured sordidly, Voltaire aims his satire, not at her, but at society. The poem extends through two volumes. In regard to the Maid, Anatole France expresses himself thus: "I believe there is nothing in the life of Jeanne d' Arc which will not yield, at the last analysis, to a rational interpretation." From this realistic viewpoint, M. France wrote his "Vive de Jeanne d' Arc," explaining her voices and visions as hallucinations, her actions as the result of the instigation of Catholic priests. He sees Joan as an ordinary shepherdess subject to hysteria. She is over-good, "saintly"; medieval "saintly." One might suggest, stupidly "saintly." The clergy take advantage of her abnormal state of mind and make her a medieval prophetess. M. France does not give the Maid much credit for what she actually achieved, claiming that it was the Archbishop of Rheims who brought about the coronation. This skeptical conception of the Maid met with immediate and violent opposition from layman, clergy, and historian. Among these are Delteil, Monahan, F. C. Lowell, Andrew Lang, and many lesser writers. "A Shrewd, Natural Girl' Among the many writers who today conceive Joan of Arc as a shrewd, natural girl, Bernard Shaw stands out noticeably. His realistic Maid, robbed of actual Saints and audible Voices, has not always been received kindly, some people being loath to JOAN OF ARC IN LITERATURE 587 accept her visitations as manifestations of intuitions formed within the secret depths of the soul. Shaw feels that the operations of divine grace do not interrupt the course of nature, and that if we understood all her laws there would be nothing unnatural, not even the appearance of saints. Like Voltaire's, Shaw's satire is not aimed at Joan, but at society. Although literature reveals cases of apparently satisfactory individual explanations of the Maid of France, there is little agreement in the theories about her. No matter how individuals may feel, the world as a whole will doubtless always regard the Maid as an enigma, for her life is too far removed to admit of much new evidence. From the facts which history discloses, almost any theory may be reasonably proved, but up to the present time literature offers for this girl's baffling life no explanation that has been generally accepted. Public Opinion Divided Nor has any one writer's conception of the Maid as an individual been accredited by the reading public as a whole. The so-called Shakespearean portrait of Joan as a heretic and a witch passed out with the national prejudice that inspired it. Today, Shakespeare's Pucelle is looked upon with interest as a study, but not as a piece of clever characterization or as a reflection of the historic Maid. Joan's voices are doubtless the chief problem which her life presents, and Shakespeare disposes of them by depicting her as a conjurer in league with the devil, receiving her inspiration from evil spirits.