Men's Censure and Their Praise The disparaging portraitures of Joan of Arc drawn by the two great French writers, Voltaire and Anatole France, have had little influence upon the world's conception of the Maid. The humor of Voltaire's travesty depends upon the reader's acceptance of his Maid as a contradiction of what she really was. His creation is not to be taken seriously. France's skeptical conception, in spite of his skill in the presentation of it, has been accepted by very few people; for history does not bear out France's treatment. As an historical character she is real, not a legend. Shie is neither a goody-goody nor a victim of hysteria. Among the writers who protested strongly against Anatole France's "Vie de jeanne d' Arc," Andrew Lang stands out conspicuously. His "Maid of France" was written in repudiation of the Frenchman's explanation. Lang feels that Joan was possessed of a genius that should be the wonder of the world, and that her voices would have availed little in saving France but for her exceptional endowments. Wheaton, Ince, Delteil, and many others entertain a similar opinion. To one who accepts France's premise, his explanation of the failure of the voices is very plausible. He holds that inasmuch as they told her what to do and say, the priests were Joan's real inspiration. During her long imprisonment, shut away from their promptings and admonitions, she made statements which grew into false predictions. A. "Modernistic'" View Modernism throws a new light upon Joan of Arc, revealing her as a shrewd, natural girl. Saint-Beuve, Joseph Delteil, Michael Monahan, Bernard Shaw, and others all present this interpretation of Joan, although differing widely in their explanations and conceptions of her character. The modern Joan is real. She is endowed with keen insight, extreme practicality, and good sense. She is possessed of the strength of character necessary to make her dreams come true. She is a great warrior and as such reflects well the historic Maid. But the modern Joan, to an extent at least, has lost much that is spiritual and supernatural in her. Delteil thinks the Maid drew her inspiration from Nature, suggesting slightly F. M. Myers' explanation of Joan in his hypothesis of the Subliminal Self. Both of these treatments suggest Plato's theory of Ideas. Shaw thinks Joan's voices and visions were the result of pure  imagination; Sainte-Beuve believes that they were hallucinations caused by the return of projected thought. Many modern Spiritualists, among them Conan Doyle and Leon Denis, hold that the visions and voices of Joan of Arc can be explained only through the actual appearance of spirits. Indeed, M. Denis promotes the theory that Joan was a great medium. The More Striking Portrayals Bernard Shaw's treatment of Joan in the Epilogue to his play is an excellent example of a certain light in which the Maid has been admirably portrayed by many writers. He shows her here as tradition has made her, as the poets sing of her: the Joan who has grown into an ideal, into a symbol of the whispering of God (be he Nature, or Subliminal Self, or an impersonal divine Power, or a Deified Man), into the typification of national patriotism. This tendency in the treatment of Joan of Arc is evident in a great deal that has been written about her. After five hundred years of controversy and speculation, the riddle of Joan of Arc's inspiration remains unsolved. However, although disputes have arisen over inferences drawn from facts, the facts themselves concerning her life are indisputable. It was Sainte-Beuve who said: "The miracle of this girl's life is best honored by the simple truth." Indeed, Joan appears to be an exemplification of the adage, "Truth is stranger than fiction;" for although writers have enriched literature because of her, they have not glorified her life as history discloses it. The more one studies her brief and tragic career, the stronger grows one's conviction that the literary representations do not eclipse the real Maid of Orleans.