Joan of Arc That a girl of seventeen should be able to grip the imagination of twentieth century civilization, is one of the amazing facts of history; yet this is true of Joan of Arc. Albert Bigelow Paine, in the Mentor of March, 1926, wrote: "After five centuries Joan of Arc remains the most fascinating figure of history. More than ever she stands revealed as the marvel of all times, the little peasant girl who at seventeen led an army, and in a few brief months threw back an entrenched enemy, led a timid prince to his coronation, and made conquest of a war-weary and all but vanquished people." An article in the Bookman of March, 1926, by Joseph Collins, says: "The ashes of Joan of Arc were thrown into the Seine five hundred years ago. Simultaneously her spirit entered the bodies of men. It has softened their hearts and inspired and elevated their minds. It has convinced them of their close kinship to God. Next to Paul she is today the most illustrious personage of Christendom."; Again, Mr. Collins has remarked concerning her: "When a writer, novelist, poet, biographer, playwright, or historian has exhausted his material he turns to Joan of Arc." So, too, Mr. Collins says: 'Now she," referring to Joan, "is the mother of her country, as George Washington is the father of his." Each year on May 8, a national fete is held in Orleans. This year, 1929, because it marked the fifth centenary, a special program was prepared. May 8 was the date on which Joan first brought food to the beleaguered city of Orleans. Ten days after, the English surrendered to the French. From April 29 until May 8, a celebration was held each day, presenting, say the papers, "on an unprecedented scale the epic of its great heroine, St. Joan  of Arc." At noon on May 7, from the top of the museum tower, a fanfare of artillery announced with great ceremony the unfolding of Joan's standard. Another feature of the celebration was the placing of a memorial stone in every part of the country that Joan visited. "At crossroads, on the parapets of bridges and elsewhere, the stones form a continuous line marking Joan's travels from Domremy by way of Poitiers, Tours, Orleans, Troyes, Soissons, Rheims, Epernay, Laon, Compiegne, Beauvais, and Chantilly, many of them since 1918 historic points in the fighting history of the United States army.. "Paris itself received two of the stones?one at Porte Saint Honore and the other at Port Saint Denis. The design of the stones was determined by competition. The first memorial was set up at Vaucouleurs. Myron T. Herrick's introduction to "We," written by Charles A. Lindbergh, says, "When Joan of Arc crowned her king at Rheims she became immortal." There seems to be abundant material to justify the statement of our French ambassador, who so recently represented the United States in the country of Joan's birth and unprecedented triumph. The Maid of France in Painting and Sculpture Except the Virgin Mary it would appear that no other woman has inspired so much art as has Joan of Arc. Joseph Collins says: "She is the inexhaustible material for sculptor or for painter." In the Pantheon at Paris, the building in which France honors her great dead, something after the manner the English honor their dead in Westminster Abbey, there is a group of magnificent mural paintings in which the life of Joan is depicted. It begins with a portrayal of the simple life she lived in Domremy and ends with her death amid flames. At Chartres Cathedral, one of the most beautiful cathedrals in France, the story of her life is told in colored glass windows of rare beauty. In the chateau at Chantilly, the castle held four days by the Germans in the late war, there is a white marble statue of her kneeling, praying?one of the rarest pieces of sculpture in all France. On the streets of the cities of Paris and Orleans and many other French cities there are statues of her. A gilded, equestrian statue of Joan in military attire with her sword at her side, stands directly in front of the cathedral at Rheims. A beautiful, white marble statue of Joan the Saint, adorns the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris. She is one of the few women to whom a monument has been erected in America; a statue of her is found in the city of New York, 7 Music?Its Message By Ida Peterson Beal "Music is very much like individuals; some pieces are acquaintances, some are friends?depending on their qualities. So called 'popular music' resembles acquaintances?those who come casually into our lives, who attract us for the moment, but who, having no power of sustained interest, pass out of our ken to make way for others like them. They leave no marked impress upon us, nor do they represent character, which is the cross-section running through every conceivable relation. Musical masterpieces, on the other hand, are friends. As is so often true with human beings, their great and enduring qualities, their beauty of character, are not at once apparent, but grow on us with each new hearing until they become a very part of our lives." It can be said with confidence and without a thought of exaggeration that music should be considered a necessity in the lives of our people-today. Its importance is so thoroughly recognized that it is not looked upon as a luxury but as a necessity. It is one of the chief agencies that afford us an understanding and an enjoyment of the beauties around us. Being one of the elevating and inspirational gifts of God to His children, it spurs us on to deeds that are higher and nobler, while it aids in the building of a real character. In our material, bustling age we need much beauty to add balance to our lives. To catch the message of music will make us sensitive to loveliness in sight and sound. Our leisure time can become a great opportunity with which to gain enough musical inspiration to become missionaries for music in our homes, in our churches, and in our secular institutions thus bringing color and joy to thousands. Music is a universal language, the language of the emotions; and the best music is often the simplest, lying easily within the child's comprehension. Every child should grow up in a home wherein music is played. A musical home will be a blessed memory to the child, whose soul will be sweetened thereby. From the very beginning of our growth in Utah the development and encouragement of music has been demonstrated. Our leaders recognized its limitless benefits in the general welfare of the people. Community singing has always been a great stimulant to tired, weary men and women, and was a real tonic to the pioneers as they traveled westward. Music should be urged as a common-sense, wholesome necessity. We must bring our people in large numbers to a real understanding of good music, and a desire to have part in that music. The intelligent singing of good  songs is for every one a profitable investment in culture; for it establishes an interest in and an appreciation of this art. "Encourage song as the door through which all may normally enter into musical enjoyment," says one writer; "and listening as the key to an understanding appreciation of music." An error difficult to overcome is the idea that to sing good music cultivated voices are demanded. Such is not altogether the case. Asa matter of fact a chorus of untrained singers may be taught to produce an amazingly good tone. The bond that helps produce this result is a love for good music. Whenever large numbers of people take part, music offers a strong stimulus to community feeling. In Germany they do not think that when a man has left school his education is finished. Their experience has taught them that attendance at the theatre, the opera, and the symphony concerts constitutes a life-long source of aesthetic and moral education. Thus music enters into the lives of all the citizens. The children, brought up in a musical atmosphere, absorb all that is rich and fine, and this culture appears again in a discriminating appreciation of what is good in music. Mechanical devices such as the victrola, the ampico piano, and, last but not least, the radio, are entering into the musical education of the people. Walter Damrosch is taking up educational work through the microphone. It is his great love for good music that stimulates him in this new venture. '"Through radio," he says, "science reaches out her powerful arms to carry music to millions of people to whom the names of great musicians were formerly little known. The radio audience has shown through its criticism that it knows the difference between a great artist and a mediocre one. "I confidently hope that our radio concerts will be the means of laying the foundation of a nation-wide love of good music among the youth of America. Given the means of reaching people, as we can through the radio, it is possible to educate them musically without limitations. It is just as easy to accustom them to good music as to bad. The main thing is to catch our young people early enough and to lead them gently into the magic land of music?in a way which will not bore them, but rather will stimulate their sensibilities and awaken their spiritual appetites?a way that will make them want to know more of this wonderful art." It has been said that "we march forward on the feet of little children." If this is true, and if we wish to become a musical people with an intelligent discrimination of good music and a judgment sharpened and developed by the richness of artistic offerings, we must begin early an intelligent study of music, instill into the minds of the young the love of good music for its own MUSIC?ITS MESSAGE 601 sake. Later, these young men and women who are interested in singing as well as in instrumental music, will want to express themselves musically, and their accomplishments in music will become a real asset to their community. In his preface to the hymn book of 1530, Luther declares music to be "the beautiful and heavenly gift of God. Next to theology, with my small ability to judge, I would set nothing higher." Gratitude I thank Thee, Lord, for faith:? That simple faith which bids me sow the field, Not doubting that the harvest time will bring A bounteous yield. And for that faith which scaffolds o'er the mire Of human wrongs, to form a generous span Of confidence and trust in erring man. For that sweet faith, from childhood's lips reclaimed, Which builds a rainbow pathway down the years, And prompts me in the solitary hour To share 'with Thee my hopes, my needs, my fears. I thank Thee, Lord, for faith. ?Alberta H. Christensen.