Dorothy J. Roberts 216

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions $246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.  Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

SPRING DUSK Christie Lund Coles The gray, madonna-hooded hills Lie still tonight, And far as eye can see, the sky Is platinum bright. The crystal air is petal-sweet, And as I pass Brief overtones wake in the trees And in the grass. The sky-born wedge of birds once more Slants near my door, While emerald green, the satin buds Leaf as before. This wild, sweet ache, Lest in this iridescent hour The heart may break. The Cover: Waterton Lake and Mount Vimy, Canada. Photograph by Hileman. VOL. 35, NO. 3 ' MARCH 1948 I make no sudden cry, nor voice Grace T. Kirton TULIPS The Mission of the Relief Society Mark E. Petersen Member of the Quorum of the Twelve Too Relief Society is one of the agencies in the hands of the Lord for the salvation of souls, and the women of the Church may become saviors upon Mt. Zion as effectively through it as they can in any other way. The need to save souls was never greater than at the present time. Probably in no other day have the forces of evil been so persistent as they are now in their efforts to weaken character, undermine the home, violate the sanctity of marriage, and destroy the very foundations of all happiness. The women of the Church have always been champions of the right. In the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith they rallied to protect his life and the lives of his family; they sacrificed to build the early temples of the Church, and when the time came to choose between the comforts of their Midwestern homes and the rigors of pioneer life as the price of religious freedom, they left those homes, crossed the plains, and with their husbands settled the valleys of the Rockies. They faced the dangers of childbearing without hospitals and often with no medical aid. They endured hunger and cold, attacks from Indians, and the affronts of the world. But, filled with faith and determination, and an understanding of their great objective, they applied themselves to the task. What we now have in the West came in large measure through their efforts. Without them, we never could have achieved so well. Through all their trials, they were saints and mothers combined—like angels of God ministering among men. They helped the poor, nursed the sick, prepared the dead for burial, taught culture, built character, and established faith. Great is their glory. In doing these things they carried out the spirit and the letter of the charge given them by the prophets of this dispensation through the medium of the great Relief Society organization which was established by divine guidance. The women of the Church have a great mission. It can be fulfilled most effectively if it is accomplished in co-operation with the organized Relief Society of the Church. The Relief Society is not a charity organization alone; it is a means through which homes are strengthened, communities improved, and souls saved. One day, while addressing the women of the Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: "The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants. The Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." He said that the sisters are to search after objects of charity and administer to their wants; assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community; avoid all evil, even its very appearance; they were to pray for one another, Page 147 148 learn to treat their husbands with mildness and affection, and have mercy on one another. He also told them that they were to practice the principles of holiness. IN the same spirit President Joseph F. Smith said that the Relief Society "has not only to deal with the necessities of the poor, the sick and the needy, but a part of its duty—and the larger part, too—is to look after the spiritual welfare and salvation of the mothers and daughters of Zion; to see that none is neglected, but that all are guarded against misfortune, calamity, the powers of darkness, and the evils that threaten them in the world. It is the duty of the Relief Societies to look after the spiritual welfare of themselves and of all the female members of the Church." On another occasion this great leader taught: "The objects of this organization are manifold. It is not designed to look only after the poor and the needy as to their bodily necessities, but it is also intended to look after the spiritual, mental and moral welfare of the mothers and daughters in Zion, and all who are engaged or interested in female work. I commend the Relief Societies to the Bishops, and say, be friendly to these organizations, because they are auxiliary organizations and a great help to the Bishops." These inspired objectives shine like a beacon of safety now in our day. The homes and families of our communities are confronted with serious problems which require the individual and collective attention of the women of the Church. United effort can solve these problems, and the Relief Society is the one organization through which can be channeled best the co-operative endeavors of those women. One of the great tasks before us is the preservation of the integrity of the home. Broken homes are becoming like a plague in America, Recent figures reveal that there is one divorce to every three marriages in the United States and in some areas divorces equal marriages in number. This calamity is moving into our own ranks. We need to be fortified against it. The Relief Society provides a great bulwark. Its program helps make homes more secure by training women in every phase of homemaking. Better homemaking makes better homes, and in better homes will be improved character development. This activity enters into the field of child care, also, giving assistance in this regard from the time of birth on. It is a great avenue of service. OTHERS are prepared in Relief Society more effectively to meet the growth of worldliness with stronger faith and a wider knowledge of the gospel. Testimony bearing and lessons in theology are important phases of its weekly program. Other cultural work further helps mothers to make better homes. The arts are taught. 'Touches of beauty are added to the surroundings. Homes become more pleasant. Leisure time is filled with activities which promote happiness and satisfaction on the part of the woman herself, and joy and commendation in the minds of husband and children. Education in literature is an important part of Relief Society work. New horizons appear, bringing fresh hopes and higher aspirations. And then there is the opportunity to help others. Calls upon the Church Welfare Program are tremendous. These postwar years have revealed the great need for the relief work carried on by the Church. Many of our own members suffered much from the late war. Some are still in distress.

But need arises at home, also, and in the future, with national and international affairs so disturbed, who can tell when it will be even greater? Budgets worked out by the General Authorities to meet present emergencies require a great deal of organized assistance from the women of the Church. Sewing, canning, nursing, directly assisting the poor with shelter, food, and raiment, make heavy demands upon the women of the Church. Organized activity is essential. The Relief Society provides it.

ORK meetings are arranged periodically, and the women in groups in their Relief Society rooms, canning centers, and gardens, or individually at home, accept the work assignments. Work meetings are not new to Relief Society women. They have been characteristic of the program from the beginning. Sewing and quilting gatherings were held both before and after crossing the plains. When Johnston's army threatened Utah, the women again went to work to do their part in defense of home and loved ones. While frontier conditions still existed in the West, these women studied hygiene and nursing, and were among the principal boosters of home industry. In 1882 they established the first L. D. S. Hospital in the West at First East and South Temple Streets in Salt Lake City. They saved grain, helped the Red Cross, provided maternity care, conducted exhibits in fairs from coast to coast, erected Relief Society halls for the prosecution of their work, and made connections with other women's organizations on a worldwide scale.

These women have never feared work. They have faced every situation as it has arisen. They will face those that will come in the future with the same willingness and determination. Their program is ever widening, in stakes and in missions. Where Latter-day Saints are, there is the Relief Society. Not only does it encourage women to participate in this great program, it urges their husbands on, also, in Welfare activity, in Priesthood work, and in all other righteous efforts.

The Prophet Joseph Smith is often quoted as having said that the sisters are to "provoke the brethren to good works." Usually the quotation is not given completely as the Prophet originally gave it. This quotation actually reads: "provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor." Relief Society sisters should be ever diligent in searching out those in need. Bishops should be on the alert to have the Welfare program in their wards efficient enough to meet the needs revealed by the work of the sisters. It is all in the plan.

Inasmuch as organized effort on a Church-wide scale is needed to meet the requirements of the day, it is most fitting that the Relief Society now plans for the erection of a women's building to properly house headquarters for these activities, toMarcy 1948 perpetuate the ideals of the Society, and to serve as a great memorial to those of the past who have built and served so well. This beautiful structure will become a source of pride and usefulness to the women of the Church and will be an emblem to all mankind of the purity, faith, and industry of Latter-day Saint womanhood.

The structure will be reared in part by the contributions of the women themselves, who are gathering funds from far and near for this great undertaking. Any woman—from bride to grand-mother—may well be proud of membership in the great Relief Society organization. Such membership is a privilege and an opportunity.

The organization is rich in inspiration, abundant in the service it renders to its members themselves, and devoted to the welfare of others. Its program is productive of those things which homes and communities of today so sorely need. It is God's organization for his faithful hand-maidens of the last great dispensation.

FIRST VIOLETS
Gene Romolo

Beneath brown leaves from yesteryear, I gently rake and thrust aside,
They lift their purple-hooded heads, Like modest folk untouched by pride.
They come each spring to offer me Their largess of humility.

SPRING WILL COME
Susa Gould Walker

New life and beauty everywhere;
Rebirth to grass and trees and flowers;
They were not dead—they were asleep,
Awaiting summer sun and showers.
The thought plants truth in every heart:
The houses which enshroud our souls
Will die, but not the souls of men;
A spring will come for everyone,
And they that sleep shall live again.

RELIEF Society women all over the Church are interested in the different ways that the wards are collecting the $5 quotas from members for the Relief Society building fund, and the various means wards are using to chart the progress of their fund quotas. As a general rule, the visiting teachers throughout the Church are being used to publicize the fund-raising campaign and in many instances to make the collection, once more demonstrating the oft-repeated phrase that "the visiting teachers are the backbone of Relief Society." Some wards have visiting teachers leave envelopes in the homes into which Relief Society members may place their dimes until they have saved the $5; others are leaving small containers of different types and styles into which the money may be put. In some localities it is recommended that jars be kept in conspicuous places and family members be asked to place pennies or nickels in as they can. This is a good plan as it allows the entire family to participate and recall the faithful work of a grandmother or some other woman member of the family who is remembered for her outstanding Relief Society service.

In addition to collecting individual member donations, some Relief Societies are taking steps to raise money as a group in order to help sisters who may find it difficult to make a $5 contribution. One ward is turning over to the fund, for a limited time, all money made by quilting; another has a "sale table" at each Relief Society meeting where handmade articles are on sale following the meeting. Still another ward has a food table where busy housewives can purchase homemade delicacies for supper. Some Relief Societies are giving concerts or parties to which members may bring their quotas. These are just a few of the many ingenious methods being devised by Relief Society officers in raising the assigned ward quotas.

The most successful results are found in stakes where the Priesthood is actively supporting the program. In many wards, the bishops are writing letters endorsing the collection which are left in the homes by visiting teachers. Page 151

Different methods are also being used to chart the progress in a ward. One ward has an arch twined with electric lights and a new light comes on each time a member pays her quota. Another ward had a neon-light building made, and the building is being outlined with light in proportion to the donations to the quota.

Letters are reaching the General Board from sisters near and far containing contributions and expressing their joy in the undertaking. The following three are typical:

New Jersey
We.... Are sending you a check to be applied towards the building fund for the new Relief Society Building.

We have five members belonging to the Church and one non-member. This is our last official act before disbanding as a Society. We are placing our names on the roll of................. May God continue to prosper the work of Oklahoma.

I have just read the article in the December Magazine about the fund-raising program for the erection of the new Relief Society Building. I am sending my money to you because I haven't any idea where else I should send it. You see, there isn't a branch of the Church near here. My family are the only Latter-day Saints here. Some day we hope to have a branch here so we can enjoy the Relief Society and all the other organizations in our Church.

Toronto, Canada

Now that the great University of Relief Society is to have a new home, I am grateful to send my small portion. We Latter-day Saint women have been attending free of all tuition for over a hundred years. It's almost fifty years since I became an active member. I have known and listened to all the general presidents since Eliza R. Snow. All my days I have been indebted to the host of great women who have shared their faith and teachings with me, all for the love of the gospel and their sisters of all races and creeds.

Nowhere on earth, even today, do women have the rich opportunities that are offered by our Relief Society, on such a broad cultural and spiritual basis. Many valiant ones who have had little formal schooling, because of Relief Society, are in the forefront of all the fine development that goes to enrich our lives here and hereafter.

I've always been grateful that women of other religious groups were most welcome as members.

ERRATUM: On page 86 of the February Magazine, in the list of wards having sent in their building fund quotas, the Beaver Ward was listed as being in Beaver Stake, Utah. This is a mistake and the line should have read: Beaver Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah).