RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING NEWS

153 STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS
SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE
IDAHO FALLS STAKE
San Diego Stake (California)
SAN DIEGO (CALIFORNIA), THIRD STAKE TO COMPLETE ITS BUILDING QUOTA

Ward Presidents Give Money to Sister Bay to Complete Quota
Sister Josie B. Bay, President, San Diego Stake (California) Relief Society reports that the women of the stake began their fund-raising drive immediately following the October Relief Society Conference. Announcements were made in the wards and on November 5th a reception was held at Sister Bay's home for all the women of the stake. From 10 A.M. until 6 P.M., the house was filled with Relief Society members, reviving old friendships, making new acquaintances, and partaking of the hospitality of the stake board. During the day $1,057.57 was contributed for the new building. Efforts to complete the quota continued until, at the time of the stake convention, November 21st, $1,318.57 had been collected. Finally, a rummage sale was held to complete the quota.

Ward Presidents, left to right: Fern Wilson, Valencia Park; Stella Holladay, Hillcrest; Verda Willardson, National City; Ann Rogers, Linda Vista; Josie B. Bay, Stake President; Ruth Clinger, Fairmount; Ora Peterson, North Park; Faun Hetzel, La Mesa; Lucile Robinson, Ocean Beach.

WARDS AND BRANCHES IN STAKES AND MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the February Magazine)
Beaver Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah)
Deweyville Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah)
Fairmount Ward, San Diego Stake (California)
Hillcrest Ward, San Diego Stake (California)
Ivins Ward, St. George Stake (Utah)
La Mesa Ward, San Diego Stake (California)
Layton Third Ward, North Davis Stake (Utah)
Leeds Ward, St. George Stake (Utah)
Linda Vista Ward, San Diego Stake (California)
Logan Sixteenth Ward, Cache Stake (Utah)
Mancos Ward, Young Stake (Colorado)
National City Ward, San Diego Stake (California)
North Park Ward, San Diego Stake (California)
Ocean Beach Ward, San Diego Stake (California)
Princeton Branch, Eastern States Mission (New Jersey)
Promontory Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah)
Rexburg Third Ward, Rexburg Stake (Idaho)
Richfield Ward, San Luis Stake (Colorado)
Taylor Ward, Shelley Stake (Idaho)
Tremonton Second Ward, Bear River Stake (Utah)
Valencia Park Ward, San Diego Stake (California)
Westconnet Ward, Florida Stake (Florida)

Pleasant View Ward, Sharon Stake (Utah), contributes check for building fund
Left to right: Melba Cluff, chairman of the bazaar; Ann Ashton, First Counselor; Edna Hansen, President, who is presenting the check; Merle Foote, Secretary (seated); Marion Ercanbrack, Second Counselor; Ruby Hunn, President, Sharon Stake Relief Society, who is receiving the check for the building fund.

The achievement of this ward was reported in the February Magazine.

Third Prize Story
Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest

Our Children's Children
Myrtle M. Dean lazily stretching her dainty white arms above her head and wiggling her toes beneath the snowy sheets. The sun was already filtering through the filmy white curtains, casting lacy shadows across her bed. More fully awake, she searched her mind for the cause of the depressed feeling that seemed to awaken with her. For a moment she saw only the beauty of the September morning. She heard the chirping of the birds in the maples outside her window. Then she looked about the room, her room, which her mother had made so beautiful and comfortable for her homecoming two months ago. Then she saw Greg's picture on her dresser, his dark eyes smiling straight into her own, his hair waving back from his broad, smooth forehead.

It was the picture that brought her sharply awake, and brought back the poignant hurt that had encompassed her last night when she had discussed Greg with her mother. When she first came home in June from music school in Boston where she had studied for two years, she had intended telling her mother about Greg, about their love, - that he was coming for her answer in September. But something had held her back, and she had kept Greg's picture tucked away in her dresser drawer.

When she had been with Greg she had been so confident, but with her mother and her people here in Salt Lake it was different. She was afraid they would not understand, for he did not belong to her people and her Church. Yet she had not realized it would be this way, but would it make any difference? Surely, one had a right to love, and she was sure it was love she felt for Greg.

Here in Utah all through the Centennial summer every town had had its celebration. She had watched the thousands of people flocking to Salt Lake City, visiting the monuments, marching in a mammoth parade, unveiling a memorial, raising their voices in song and story in gratitude and honor to the people who had come to settle this valley.

Her ancestors had been among the first to come here.

When she had spoken to Greg about her religion, he had said, "We can be happier without all those rites and ceremonies and traditions that go along with churches and tie one down." She had tried to tell him of her people's sacrifice for their Church, but he had called it a matter of necessity. Civilization would not harbor their practices. "That's what I call following a foolish tradition," he had said, "going through suffering and persecution for a religion and then singing 'All is well, all is well,' about it." Greg had made his argument sound reasonable, and she had heard how Great-grandfather Bailey had joined the Church in England and left all that he had and brought his family to America and started across the plains only to die on the way from exposure, and how Great-grandfather Brown had frozen his feet as he crossed the Missouri River on the ice and had to hobble around on one foot the rest of his life, and Aunt Mary Blake had buried two children on the plains. Surely, any religion could not be worth all this sacrifice.

Yesterday was the first of September,

Greg would be coming in two weeks for her answer. She still felt that answer must be yes. I love Greg, she said over and over to herself, nothing else can matter as much as love. So she had taken Greg's picture from its hiding place and placed it on her dresser. Across the corner of the picture he had written, "All my love, Greg." Carol knew the time had come when her mother must know.

HEN, last night, her mother had brought fresh flowers to her room from the garden. Simultaneously, their eyes had fallen upon the newly placed picture. Carol's cheeks flushed a trifle. Her mother, a bit surprised, smiled, questioning with friendly interest, "Who is he, Carol? He is handsome, but 'All my love, Greg,' why haven't you told me, Child?" Mrs. Bailey's voice did not hold suspicion or doubt. She had always trusted her children.

"I love him, Mother. He has asked me to marry him." Carol was angry with herself that her voice was unsteady. Her hands trembled. She did not want to show doubt or indecision. She had made up her mind to fight determinedly for the right to love.

"It's all right, isn't it, Dear? You are sure you love him? You are sure he is right for you?" There was concern in her mother's voice, as she noted the anxiety in Carol's face.

"He's right for me, Mother, but perhaps he won't be right for you, for the family. He isn't one of you. He is not a Mormon." Carol spoke a trifle defiantly.

"Isn't one of us," Mrs. Bailey corrected solemnly, then OUR CHILDREN'S CHILDREN sorrowfully went on, "It is all my fault, Carol. I just didn't realize my little girl was growing up so fast. There have been many things to think of since your father died, and time has passed quickly."

"It is not your fault, Mother, | fell in love, that's all," Carol said, with pleading in her voice.

But her mother went on dully, as though stunned, "I wanted you to have more than we could do for the family. I wanted you to do the things I never got to do my own way." Her mother kept calling her child. She cannot realize I am a woman, I'm twenty and in love with Greg, Carol kept saying to herself.

She thought now of what her father had told her when she was a little girl, before he had died, "I named you 'Carol Dawn' because you were born at dawn of Christmas morning." She had almost believed him when he had said, "I think the Yes, Daddy had spoiled her, and too, with his foolish flowers of the garden singing like birds."

157

Her mother had done for her what had not been done for any of the older children. She had been the last one and had brought this can be a serious mistake." He had seemed so desperately earnest when she had said this.

Him, Mother, him. Doesn't that mean anything to you? Does it all have to be religion, Church, and loyalty to family and a people?" CAROL sensed that her mother knew there was a conflict going on now.

Now, she had told him to avoid all this pain and indecision. Eyes lighted with a gleam of hope, "Phil Davis will be home from his mission in a few weeks. He is going to be surprised and disappointed, Carol." Carol brushed this aside lightly, "Phil and I were just kids. Our was just puppy love, Mother, | haven't heard from Phil for six months, not since I met Greg."

As Carol continued with her rush of words, Mary Bailey almost wished she had not spoken of Phil. "Phil is a fine fellow," Carol said, "but I could never go out to a little town and exist like Bill and Helen or Alice and Don, nor settle down with seven kids like John and Betty. 1 want to be different. I am different. Don't you see?"

Still, with patience, Mary Bailey continued, "Phil has spent two years on a mission for our Church." She tried to hide the eagerness in her voice, as though Phil's mission might make Carol feel some sort of loyalty.

There was disappointment again as Carol spoke. "Yes, two years for his Church, which perhaps could have been better spent going to college preparing himself for a job that would take him away from this small-town stuff, or he could have worked and earned quite a sum to make some good investment."

"But Phil wasn't thinking of himself, Carol. He was willing to serve others, give them a chance to hear the truth," Mrs. Bailey said.

Carol was ready again with her answer. "But Mother, so much time and money spent, and perhaps only one or two, maybe not even one person believing his words. You know our Don only baptized one person and our Bill only two. You and the whole family scrimped and saved, sacrificing for them to go, just for those three people to join the Church."

"You do not understand, Child," her mother explained. "Don and Bill perhaps planted the seed of truth in many hearts that will grow and grow until some other elder comes along to harvest what they sowed."

Carol had hoped that the morning would bring peace and assurance of what her course should be. Instead, there was still this awful uncertainty and depression. She stood before the open window and gazed down from her home on the heights over the city. She tried to draw tranquility from the world outside.

Soft white clouds floated lazily over the roofs. The ivy clung close to the white stone wall that hemmed the wide lawn. Tall marigolds bloomed in elegance beside the house.

"The world is so beautiful and peaceful," Carol thought.

"Why can't our lives be like that?" But over and over her mother's words of the night before kept repeating themselves in her mind, "You must choose for yourself, Carol. No one can do that for you." If her mother had not blamed herself, if she had accused and forbidden, it would have been easier to fight back. She did not want to hurt her mother, but she didn't want to hurt Greg and herself either. All through the day she battled this indecision. Evening found her almost ill from the emotional conflict of the day. She walked listlessly about the garden. A cool breeze fanned her flushed cheeks. The garden was bathed in moonlight. The fragrance of flowers came to her from all around. In the moonlight she could see the temple spires pointing upward and the angel holding his trumpet. Ever since she was a little girl she remembered seeing the angel there, but she had gazed at it impassively. In a distant sort of way she had known the message the angel sounded represented a way of life different from all the world. Now, in the bright moonlight it gleamed like something celestial. All her brothers and her sisters had been married here in this temple. Carol thought of her oldest brother, Bill. He had always been so steady and fine. He was a bishop down in a little town in Southern Utah. Now, he would have liked to move to a town where his children could have better schools, but he said that God had called him to a position, and he would not run out on it. John lived on a farm in Weber County. He and Doris, his wife, had to go six miles to Church in a rattly old car, but they always went, and they paid a tenth of what they made from beans and potatoes and milk and cream, for tithing. Alice was as steady as the Rock of Gibraltar. When Don went on his mission, she had sent twenty-five dollars from her meager earnings to help him, saying, "Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven." Carol remembered hoping the blessings of heaven would be better than the blessings of earth for all of them. As Carol neared the house she heard voices from the front porch. It was her mother and Grandmother and Grandfather Brown. They had come from their home in Idaho for the Centennial parade and had stayed on with her mother to visit. It was Grandma Brown speaking, "You should not have let Carol go away alone for so long, Mary, but I hope she will come to her senses." Carol felt guilty, hearing them, but they were talking about her, she knew. Her heart felt a little lighter as her grandfather said, "Of course she will come to her senses. Our Carol Dawn will not let us down. She is just disillusioned for the moment. You have taught her what is right, as you did the others." Carol moved away quickly. She did not want them to know she had heard, but there was a little bit of happiness in knowing that grandpa had faith in her. Oh, what could she do about it? She entered the back door and went up the stairs to go to her room. As she passed her mother's door, she noticed it was open. On the bed was a collection of relics of pioneer days. They had been on display in town throughout the summer and had just been brought home. There was a Paisley shawl that Great-grandmother Bailey had owned, great-grandfather's pearl-handled cane, an English prayer book, a beautiful feather fan of Great-aunt Zina's, and a lovely white satin wedding gown that was her Grandmother Brown's. Carol touched the things carefully. She picked up a leather-covered book. It was an old journal, kept first by Great-grandfather Bailey.

CAROL opened the cover. The date was April, 1848. She read of the hardships in Winter Quarters and crossing the plains, but there were no complaints. He told of Indian raids, of buffalo stampedes, of babies being born in covered wagons on the plains. Then he told of the weakening illness that was sapping his life away. The last lines brought tears of pity to Carol's eyes, "I had wanted so much to reach Zion and join the saints and make a home there for my dear family but it seems God wills it otherwise. I cannot go on. I pray our kind Father will take care of my dear wife and our little ones." Then there were a few lines written by his wife. Carol read them, wondering at the faith of these people who were her progenitors. "My dear husband, John Bailey, passed to his reward, June 6, 1848. May God watch over his lonely grave and keep me and our children in safety on our journey, and give us peace in the new land of promise." Elizabeth Bailey signed her name to these few solemn lines. How could they, oh, how could they praise God and ask his blessings when he had taken the father away and left the mother and children alone in that awful wilderness? Carol thought with bitterness. This seemed to be a family record, for the next entry was made by her father's father after they had reached the Valley. He wrote of tilling the land, making irrigation ditches, of the building of the Tabernacle and the beautiful temple. Carol re-read his last lines. "We have tried to build well all we have done here, that it might stand for our future generations. We came here not for ourselves alone, but that our children and our children's children might grow and increase in faith and become a light to all the world." "Our children's children," Carol said to herself, softly, "and I am one of them. Oh, Grandfather Bailey, you must be so ashamed of me!" There was one more page, which her own father had written on his wedding day. "Today is our wedding day," he had said, "Mary Brown and I were married this morning in the Salt Lake Temple; not until death do us part, but for time and all eternity. Mary was as beautiful as an angel in her lovely white dress." Mother must have been a lovely bride, beautiful and good, Carol thought to herself, and she is still beautiful. I wish father could see her now. They were married in the Temple. That is the way father would want it for Greg and me, but it will never be that way for Greg, I am sure, Carol thought sadly. Until death do us part. That is how it would be with me and Greg. All this about marriage suddenly took new meaning for Carol. Her grandfather and her own father had both died and left their families, yet they were still theirs, through time and all eternity. Carol closed the old journal and went slowly down the stairs, holding it in her hand.

The radio was playing softly, and the Centennial singers began singing "Come, Come Ye Saints." As they sang on, she felt that she could now understand how those people who first had sung it with such fervor must have felt when they said, "All is well, all is well." Then the voices sang, "High on the Mountain Top," and then "True to the Faith." As their words came out so clear on the air, Carol followed the words carefully. When they began the refrain she joined with them, and sang the words, "True to the faith which our parents have cherished; true to the truth for which martyrs have perished; to God's command soul heart and hand faithful and true we will ever stand." She was one of the youth of Zion, and she must not falter.

OUR CHILDREN'S CHILDREN

As her sweet voice floated out on the air, the voices of her mother and grandmother on the porch became hushed. A flood of tears filled her mother's eyes. Carol went out to them, holding the old journal in her hand. She opened it to the lines her grandfather had written, and taking her mother by the hand, she read, "We came here not for ourselves alone, but for our children and our children's children, that they may grow and increase in the faith and be a light to all the world." With thankfulness in her face, Mary Bailey said softly, "Oh, you do believe, Carol Darling. I am so happy."

"Yes, Mother," Carol said, "I am one of those children." Then, with a bright smile, she continued, "Did you say Phil would be home in a few weeks from his mission? I hope he will be glad to see me. Maybe he will be able to go to school here in Salt Lake this winter, and then I think I would even go out to his little town to live." Her face clouded a trifle for a moment as she said, "Good night. I have a letter I must write to Greg. I hope he will understand."

Myrtle M. Dean, Provo, Utah, has had a story and a poem previously published in TheA busy housewife and mother, Mrs. Dean submits the following brief sketch of her activities: "I have always been interested in writing and have written stories and poems since I was a young girl. I have notebooks full of them, mostly in the rough. Children, four daughters and one son, and now have seven grandsons and one My husband, Charles E. Dean, has been a bishop's counselor for six years in Provo, and I have held offices in most of the Church organizations. So, with my Church activities and my family, I have had little time to write."

THE BEAUTY OF A SUNSET

Marijane Morris

The beauty of a sunset
Is like some forgotten tune,
Living for the moment,
Then fading in the gloom.

And yet, its loveliness,
Like a dart,
Will remain embedded
In the human heart.

Then something tender,
Like a sad refrain,
Recalls the sunset
That did not die in vain.