[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: Editorial Notes | Author: Unknown]

		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth and four of
her lovely daughters left Salt Lake City, ac-
companied by her husband, P. T Farns-
worth, Esq., for an extended trip abroad.
It will be a delightful change for her and
for the young ladies, who are all just out of
school, or college, some of them with sig-
nificant titles, B. S. and B. A. and so on.
They sailed from Montreal, after traveling over
the delightful Canadian country. We shall
miss Mrs. Farnsworth very much, because
she was such an active member of our Gen-
eral Relief Society and was always ready
and willing to do and to go whenever and
wherever duty called. We wish them a de-
lightful trip over the ocean and through
European cities and visiting historic scenes
and countries, and a safe return to their
beautiful home in this city.

	On the 10th of June the anniversary meet-
ing for the election of officers of the Utah
State Society Daughters of the Revolution was
held in the Woman’s Exponent office Tem-
pleton Building, the Regent, Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright, in the chair. Reports of retir-
ing officers of the year just closed were
given, showing some advancement had been
made and in social events quite enjoyable.
One regretable circumstance had taken
place, viz. the death of a valued member,
Mrs. Eliza Titcomb of this city; whose
demise while sojourning temporarily in
Southern California, had taken place. Mrs,
Titcomb had endeared herself to all the
Daughters of the Society, because of her
gentleness and sociability, although she came
among them a stranger from the East. The
newly elected officers are Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, Regent, Mrs. Emily H. C.Willey First
Vice Regent, Mrs. Julia F. Lund, Second Vice
Regent, Mrs. Clarice Y. Spencer Recording
Secretary, Mrs. Ella W. Hyde Cor.
Sec. Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber Treas-
urer, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth
Historian, Mrs Lucy W. Smith Registrar,
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall Chaplain. The
Society will meet for tbe term, September
16, 1909.

	A very delightful party was given by the
eldest daughter of Mrs. Catherine Brock-
bank to a few of her mother’s old friends
on the anniversary of her birthday at
the old home of the family in this city.
Mrs. Brockbank wore her wedding gown of
long ago and gave us some of the interest-
ing details of the event. There were some
of the dear old friends of her girlhood in-
vited. Miss Elizabeth Brockbank, the eld-
est daughter had not informed her mother
of this party until the time arrived, but
everything worked like a charm. Reminis-
cences of girlhood days were very entertain-
ing; when old friends meet the hours fly
quickly. Among the company were Sisters
Amelia McDonald Mary P. Young, Phyllis
H. Ferguson, Kate Johnson, Aunt Emm.
Wells, Emma S. Woodruff and others.

	Mrs. T. G. Webber gave a party for her
mother, Mrs. Charlotte F. Richards on the
afternoon of Saturday, May 12, 1909, at her
elegant home in this city. The guests were
dear old friends of her mother’s and they
were most delightfully entertained. Every-
thing that the hostess, Mrs. Webber, could
devise was done that her mother might en-
joy the companionship of those she had
known familiarly in the early days in the
valley, and some of the friends of her girl-
hood in dear old England had been bidden

[Column 2]
to the feast. Words cannot express the
pleasure it gives one advanced in years to
meet with those whom they have been
strongly attached to when the hearts were
young and spirits buoyant. The tables were
a picture with snowy linen, vases of delicate
flowers, and all the dainty china, cut glass,
and elegant silver, as well as the most appe-
tizing viands of great variety. At the head
of the table sat the lady in whose honor the
feast was given, next her Mrs. Samuel Rich-
ards and Mrs. Nannah Richards on the
other side, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Mrs. Hannah C. Wells, and so
on. Other tables were filled with charming
women and lively conversation was kept up
—after retiring to the parlor, some lady
gave us music, and a few of these dear old
friends danced a little to the music as in the
days when they were young. Mrs. Webber
certainly gave her mother’s old friends a
great pleasure bringing those ladies together
who some of them had not seen each other
for years.

	Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry and Mrs. Emily
S. Richards left for Buffalo early this month
to attend the conference of Charities and
Corrections where Mrs. Dusenberry had been
scheduled for an address and appointed by
the Governor of Utah. From there they
went to Toronto to attend the International
Quinquennial Council and Congress, of
which so much has been said in the daily
papers. This International Quinquennial
was held in Berlin in 1904, when several of our
sisters went across to Germany and attended
its sessions. July 16, some of the leading
ladies of the International Council are ex-
pected to stop over a few hours in this city
en route from Seattle to the East, after
calling here, they will visit Denver and
Colorado Springs, Detroit and Chicago on
their way.


[Column 1]
