A WOMAN'S VIEWS.

	In reading the President's message we find
the following: "I am convinced, however, that
polygamy has become so strongly intrenched in
the Territory of Utah, that it is profitless to at-
tack it with any but the stoutest weapons which
Constitutional Legislature can make; I favor,
therefore, the repeal of the act upon which the
existing government depends, and the resump-
tion by the National Legislature of the entire
political control of the Territory, and the estab-
lishment of a commission." Compare the ad-
vice with the following: "Any Legislation
whereby Congress may supplement the guaran-
antees which the Constitution affords for the
equal enjoyment by all the citizens of the Uni-
ted States, of every right, privilege, and immu-
nity of citizenship will receive my unhesitating
approval." What a favor! What a distinction!
What! destroy our territorial government!
What for? Forsooth, take away the rights of a
loyal people, born free men and women, living
under the starry flag of liberty. Is it because
we take the right given us by the Constitution,
to regulate our own domestic affairs? By what
right does the President, or Congress, presume
to interfere with our local laws? Did not the
Congress of this nation grant us a territorial
government, with the power to make our local
laws according to the views and good of the
people? The organic act of the territory gives
us the right to make laws with a view to the
best interest of the people, (providing we do
not make any that will come in contact with
the general government) and we have the privi-
lege of making our marriage law to suit our
ideas; if we conclude to have no wife at all,
whose right is it to interfere? It is strictly a
point upon which local authority has jurisdic-
tion, we do not ask any other state or territory
to incorporate in their code of laws any that are
obnoxious to them; we do not interfere with
them as to what laws they shall make, neither
do we acknowledge their right to interfere with
ours. Even the President has no right when
he stoops to oppress and pervert the spirit and
intent of the Constitution, much less to incor-
porate a reign of Ecclesiastical Inquisition, and
pander to the clamor of religious bigots, and
rule and control the consciences of men, and say
what they shall incorporate as principle in their
religion. Why not say to the Catholics (when
they believe in celibacy) that they shall marry,
or to the Jew, that it is the will of other relig-
ionists that the seventh day is the Sabbath; this
government has no right to require us to aban-
don any principle of our religion, and make us
forego the dearest constitutional rights we pos-
sess. It is the climax of oppression, and we
must submit or have our territorial government
destroyed. I ask, who are the traitors? Traitors
to the people's interests; traitors to the trust re-
posed in them, and to the Constitution of Amer-
ican liberty. We as a people love and revere
the Constitution as an inspired document, but
we deplore a corrupt administration; we

[Column 2]
sincerely pity those that have lost sight of
the true principles of freedom. We as a peo-
ple claim the right to have a state government
(having the requisite qualifications) to manage
our own affairs, and be protected in our rights by
the present government; what do we find?
Those that should protect us going back to the
old colonial time, using force to compel a free
people to become serfs, to have no voice as to
who shall be their rulers, to establish a mon-
archy in this free land of America. Well may
we ask, 'Is this a land of liberty?" Taxation
without representation was the cause of the
Revolutionary war, and what are the custodi-
ans of the people's rights doing to-day? Are
the statesmen, legislators, and senators of this
great nation taking a course to perpetuate the
principle of freedom and union, and maintain a
union of state and people? Is not policy and
party interests sapping away the very found-
dations of this once great nation?
	Look at the secret combinations and secret
societies, and look at the struggle between cap-
ital and labor, and the lack of confidence in men
of position, and the distrust in those that should
defend the union and equal rights to all who set
foot upon American soil. How much of brain
or good judgment is shown in the management
of national affairs?	*	*	Once in a
while there is a man that dares to defend the
rights of the people, that has a spark of the
spirit that animated the bosoms of the revolu-
tionary fathers, and that want to protect the
fundamental principles of this great republic;
we say God bless such men. The seeds of sedi-
tion and civil war are being fostered like a
smouldering volcano, and unless the rulers and
statesmen rid themselves of their selfish-
ness, and let honor, truth and justice be their
motto, they will have enough to do nearer home
than Utah. The day has come spoken of by the
prophets of old: "howl ye, for the day of the
Lord is at hand; it shall come as a destruction
from the Almighty, and they shall be afraid;
pangs and sorrows shall take hold of them; they
shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth;
they shall be amazed one at another; their faces
shall be as flames: behold, the day of the Lord
cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger,
to lay the land desolate, and He shall destroy
the sinners thereof out of it." The time is com-
ing when all they that persecute the saints of
God will be cut off from the face of the earth,
for the Lord has said by the mouth of His
prophets, in the last days He will send dire des-
tructions upon the ungodly, famine, pestilence,
plagues, and that they should slay one another
until the land should become desolate. Then
we as saints of God do not complain, for we
know in whom we put our trust; we know that
whosoever lives godly in Christ Jesus must suf-
fer persecution; then what effect does all this
clamor, all this extra legislature have upon this
people? Does it weaken their faith, does it
make them feel like forsaking their religion, or
the principles thereof? No. For we know that
God will protect His own, and that our enemies
can have no power over us so long as we do
right, and we ask no favors of our enemies, only
our just rights.
	I will say a few words in regard to our fran-
chise. It is passing strange that our wise sena-
tor, Mr. Cassidy, should have so much intelli-
gence and wisdom when his mother was a
woman, and women are such fools that "they
don't know how to vote." Are not women the
ones that implant the principles of manhood, of
intelligence, of honor, of honesty and refine-
ment in the bosom of man, even before he opens
his eyes on this world. Is it not the refining
influence of women that stamps the morals of a
a community, that is the foundation of good so-

[Column 3]
ciety? Take a community where men has the
predominant influence, (say in mining camps,
for instance.) and what is the condition of socie-
ty? It is of the lowest grade. On the other
hand, let women have the predominant influ-
ence and the reverse is the result. Read the
history of all our great men, and you will find
that it was the training they received at their
mother's knee and the modifying influence she
held over them prompted them to greatness
Then who shall dare to raise a voice to deprive
women of their rights? Are they not citizens;
are they not persons? If not, what are they?
Is not one citizen equal with another? As
women can hold property and is taxed for that
property? If a woman violates the laws of the
land she is held accountable to the law, she also
has the right to the protection of this govern-
ment the same as a man, but she must not vote
(she does not know how to). Why not? I claim
that women have the same rights as men, and
that they have brain enough to know who to
vote for, they, as a general rule, do not let policy
rule them to the exclusion of principle, in the
choice of men for office; they vote for men that
have proved themselves capable, that have the
people's interests at heart, and that will perpet-
uate the principles of freedom and equal rights
to all citizens. I hold that a citizen is a citizen,
whether man or woman, if not, why hold a
woman responsible to the law? Has not a
woman the same power to think, to act, and
study; are not her intellectual powers as great
if cultivated? Has she but the same power to
educate herself as man? Certainly she has. If
she has not had the opportunity to develop
those powers, it is because man has deprived
her of her natural rights; man has stood in the
way of his own interests, instead of raising
woman to her proper sphere, and making her
his equal, a counselor, a companion, and a help-
meet truly, and having an intelligent wife, he
has contented himself with having a household
drudge, a thing of convenience. But a dawn is
breaking for the women of this nation, and she
will show in the near future that she is not on-
ly capable of voting, but of holding office. Mr.
Cassidy will find that the day has passed for
men to fight against the advancement of women,
for they have one faculty more prominent, per-
haps, than men, which is pertinacity. We
claim as our right to say who shall make our
laws, who shall rule over us, and who we will
vote for. We do not intend to be enslaved with
out a protest. Where will you find a people that
have shown the indomitable will and perseve
ance, that have accomplished what this people
have, in the some length of time? Or a people
that have shown the amount of intelligence
and statesmanship ability, or the powers of en-
durance? Does it all show a community of ig-
norance? No; we are a people that are governed
by the power and intelligence of Almighty
God, and herein consists our power of unity, be-
ing inspired by the same spirit we are united in
all things; this is why we vote as a unit, this is
what makes the wicked tremble. It is not a
small handful of people that priests and people
are fighting against, but the Almighty Father,
the ruler of the heavens and the earth; that
King before whom every knee shall bend and
every tongue confess His power, His might, and
His right. Praying for the welfare of the King-
dom of God.				SARAH A. FULMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., Dec. 23, 1883.


