WOMEN IN POLITICS.
				-------
	Dr. W. Hammond has failed to produce
any physiological reasoning why women should
not exercise the right of franchise, and become
educated pertaining to the laws and politics of
the nation. Now, as we belong to that unfor-
tunate class whose brain is deficient in weight,
we would like to ask the learned philosopher
whether the superior intellect consists in the
quantity or quality.  This learned anatomist
further asserts that the governing power of the 
world is to be found in the brain of the male.
Where shall we go to find a precedent, not in
our own dear native land of liberty, but back
to the old monarchial governments of Europe.
We learn from history that queens have often
excelled kings in the administration of civil
government, not from a superior power of rea-
son or intellect, but from a clearer moral
sense of justice.
	It has been said that Isabella I. was the
greatest and noblest ruler that has ever gov-
erned Spain, because she sought to do right.
	Theresa Maria, with a very limited educa-
tion, was the wisest and best sovereign who has
held sway over Germany, because she labored
for the good of those she governed.  What is
said of Victoria of England.  Her refined
taste and graceful propriety of manuer, coupled
with her superior intellect has casued vice and
folly to retire abashed from her majesty's pres-
ence.  And 'tis said that the English people
rejoice when the sceptre passes into the hands
of a woman.  Compare the reign of this noble
woman with that of the kings who preceded
her, and see if her success as a ruler for the
last forty-three years will not encourage those
who are deficient in weight of intellect to cul-
tivate that organ, the brain. It is said by men
of knowledge had a king been in power that
England would have been involved in blood-
shed and war.  Compare the administration of
the government of the United States to-day
with that of England with that sacred instru-
ment, the Declaration of Independence, to
point out the way, and it should be  the poli-
tician what the compass is to the mariner at
sea; and while this heaven-born boon of free-
dom was held sacred and inviolate the admin-
istrators were blessed with wisdom and peace,
and prosperity reigned throughout the land.
What are they doing in Congress to-day?  Writ-
ing stringent bills in violation of the Constitu-
tion to oppress and destroy the portion of its
subjects that worship God according to the dic-
tates of their own consciene. How long will
free-born American citizens stand silently by
and never raise their voices against such pro-
ceedings; we declare to the world that we claim
and assert our consitutional rights; not chang-
ing the meaning of the clasue in the Consitut-
tion as the Supreme Court did in the Rey-
nold's case, making it mean you can believe as
you please; who ever heard of any one worship-
ing God by believing and not acting or speak-
ing.  Under a monarchial government Eng-
land protects her subjects and also foreigners
in their religious worship; while the represent-
atives of a republican government are disfran-
chising and oppressing, and have failed to pro-
tect a portion of its citizens in their constitu-
tional rights.  It is said that history repeats
itself.  When the iron heel of oppression, under
the monarchy of the old world, stood upon the
neck of our Puritan Fathers, insomuch that
their souls thirsted for freedom; they not only
braved danger in crossing the mighty deep, but
suffered privation and danger from the red
men of the forest, but laid down their lives for
that most sacred heaven-born boom, liberty.
Did not our mothers share in those perils and
dangers? Did they not feel the patriotic fire
of freedom burning in their inmost souls, in-
spiring them with courage to exclaim, on ,on,
to victory?  Now, we would ask the learned
philosopher of the nineteenth century, what
has been done by the party in power to ele-
vate women? What has been the popular
teaching of the past relative to woman's
sphere? Oh, she is too refined to meddle with
politics; it is not necessary for her to know
anything about the law; it is very unpopular
and not lady-like to go to the polls and vote.
What is the result?  Where are our states-
men and patriots?  Have they been regenera-
ting and progressing since '76? Read the Con-
gressional Records from the day that Cullom
Bill violated the spirit and letter of the Con-
stitution, that same spirit is prevailing in
the hearts of some of the senators and repre-
sentatives to destroy the original letter and
meaning of the Constitution, which is more sa-
cred and dear to every American citizen than
life itself. 			E. PLURIBUS UNUM.


