ST. JOSEPH STAKE, ARIZONA.

	The First Quarterly Conference of the St.
Joseph Stake of Arizona, convened in the
bowery at Pima, Sept, 2nd., Prest. Layton and
Counselor D. P. Kimball were present, also the
Bishops of the various wards. We were
pleased to note some five or six of the Mormon
Battalion present, also the Patriarchs of the
St. Joseph Stake, Wm. Mc.Bride and Phile-
mon Merrill. Reports were read from four
different organizations of the R. S., which were
encouraging. S. David, Pima, Curtis and
Graham wards were in a progressive condition;
there is also an organization of R. S. at
Thatcher, which is prospering. The society at
Pima had sent twenty-five dollars to a poor
widow in Arkansas, to assist her to emigrate,
and she arrived here just in time to see and
hear Apostles Young and Grant, whose visit
here was highly appreciated by the saints. The
cry of the watchmen on the towers of Zion has
saluted our ears in this remote land, and the
majority of the people are trying to reform
	The young men that were called to labor
among the House of Jacob are responding and
beginning to qualify themselves to fill a great
and important mission.
	The Second Quarterly Conference of the R.
S. and Y. L., together with the Primary As-
sociation of the St. Joseph Stake of Arizona,
convened in the Hall of St. David, Nov. 30th,
1883. Friday morning at 10 o'clock meeting

[Column 2]
called to order by Prest. W. East. After the
usual exercises there was much good instruc-
tion and powerful testimonies given by the pre-
siding board, exhorting the sisters to magnify
their calling and seek to establish home indus-
try, and by all that is sacred and true not to
neglect the training of the youth of Israel.
	We mothers must teach them faith while they
are yet young, that this principle may be cul-
tivated and grow into a mighty power in the
earth. The young people and Primary Asso-
ciations have been organized for the special
training of those noble spirits that have been
held in reserve to come forth to receive this
education preparatory to the Kingdom and
coming of our Lord and Savior, and God will
hold us responsible.
	Prest. Layton expressed himself well pleased
with the report and spirit of the sisters' confer-
ence, and wished us to continue our meeting
Saturday morning, as the Apostles had not ar-
rived, which we did, and heard encouraging re-
marks from Patriarch Merrill. The young
ladies were ably represented by Counselor
Rhoda Foster. The young ladies of this Stake
certainly deserve credit for good behavior and
willingness to perform their duty.
							W. EAST.
	P. S. I am acting as School Trustee in
this district; our secretary will send you a full
report, with wages of officers and Sec.	W. E.


