ADDRESSED TO SISTER PRESENDIA
			KIMBALL.
It should be higher pens than mine to sing thy praise,
And grateful peans to thy memory raise,
But in the speaking silence breathing round
My trumpet small gives no uncertain sound!
But craves to speak the truth regarding thee,
And which would fill a volume grand and free.
Thy life is known to Saints of latter days,
In holy rites, and round the sick one's bed
Thy gentle step is heard with noiseless tread,
To bless, to comfort and prescribe in faith
Some simple remedy that may save from death!
And then thy prayer--a sister's prayer of love
Calls down a blessing from the realms above!
Yes, many, many hast thou blest indeed,
By means so gentle, yet so grand in need;
And then the form--from whence the living breath
Has pass'd, and laid the weary one in death,
With pure and holy touch thy hand has deck'd
In saintly robes the body death has wreck'd,
And given peace and satisfaction in that hour
To loving friends who mourn death's awful power.
Who does not know the balm it brings to see
Our treasured dead approach'd with sanctity?
They have become so sacred in our eyes
As though a part of us had pass'd into the skies!
As though by some mysterious means we had become
Allied more closely with our eternal home!
In many such a sad, yet holy scene,
Hast thou a kind, efficient helper been;
And now in your declining years, dear friend,
May friends be round you till the final end
In sweet acknowledgement of days gone by,
When you in times of need were ever nigh,
Not only to the rich, but chiefly to the poor
Thy aid was freely given o'er and o'er;
A crown eternal is in store for you,
But earthly blessings now are surely due.
The things of earth the earthly body needs,
And nature is imperative when'er she pleads,
Yet oft, alas! through life we often find
the good, the pure the noble and the kind
Lack much, which they in truth have fairly earned,
But well I know you have the lesson learned
To be content with that you do possess,
And feel the hand of God to thank and bless.

Dear friend, my heart feels full in praise of thee;
Long may your life be lengthen'd out to be
A calm sweet evening now "the day is done,"
And God, and you, and all the Saints be one,
Such is my heart's devotest fervent prayer;
I crave your friendship I may ever share.
Accept the simple song my heart doth sing
Your friend and sister, HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.


[Column 1]

