	SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	The clause in Senator Edmunds bill, abolish-
ing woman suffrage in Utah, is calling forth de-
nunciation and severe criticism, and will bring
down upon his devoted head the indignation of
all good suffragists. Whether the fact is under-
stood and appreciated or not, woman suffrage
has been a success in Utah. Almost without
exception women have gone to the polls; and
they have voted as their own judgment dictated;
and the women of the Latter-day Saints have as
strong opinions of their own as the women of any
other community, misrepresentation to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
	Why the Senator from Vermont should trou-
ble himself about "Mormon" women at all is diffi
cult to understand 	It would s[-]em all-sufficient
for him to propose general, special adverse leg-
islation for Utah, without singling out women
to make specific legislation for. He must look
upon woman suffrage as a power, or why should
he wish to abolish i[-]; if it is a positive power
then in the hands of the intelligent and wise it
may be a power for good, and if so then the na-
tion needs it, for the neccessity of powerful
agencies for positive good seems at the prese[-]t
t[-]me to be imperatively essential.  There is
little doubt of suffrage in the hands of women
effecting a general reformation in the morals of
society.  Women are not likely to vote for men
who will license growing evils in the midst of 
the great cities of the world.
	The Ladies of the Woman Suffrage State Ex-
ecutive Committe of New York, who are as 
clever and as shrewd as any women in the 
world, have entered their protest, by "denounc-
ing Senator Edmund's proposition for the dis-
franchisement of the women of Utah as a gross
wrong to the non-polygamists and to polyga-
mists by compulsion, and is punishment with-
out trial of those who believe in polygamy.
New York senators and representatives are
called upon to resist the proposition."
	These women have indeed been fearless in
thus speaking for those who believe in this prin
ciple which has been so much legislated against-
and is so exceedingly unpopular.  It is quite re-
freshing to hear of any one saying those Mor-
mons who are being disfranc[-]ised should have a
trial.
	There are people in Utah who know how un-
just has been the ruling in regard to disfran-
chisement.  The very fact that the oath applied
to the citizen who registered included ("in the
marriage relation") shows plain[-]y that it was 
only intended for those who pract[-]sed the prin-
ciple of plural marriage, and allowing the most
vile and disreputable, wheter man or woman,
the privilege of the elective franchise, which
Mormon women have held as a sacred boon giv

[Column 2]
en them from God.  No matter how intelligen[-]
or clever a woman might be, a property owner
and tax-payer, a widow or a wife, if she had
ever at any time in her life lived with a man
who had at any time in his life been in the prac-
tice of plural marriage, she was by that exclud-
ed from the polls.  Is not this stretching the
thread of the law to its utmost tension?  Yet in
the very face of this fine spun theory—women
who were known to be Magdalenes, were sl-
lowed to go and register and vote.  The same
or similar, with men, and this is the example
of consistency practically carried out by the
Utah Commission.
	Alice Stone Blackwell has written at some
length upon the subject of disfranchising Mor-
men women in the "Woman's Journal," pub-
lished in B[-]ston.  After going over the ground
and telling what she heard in Utah last sum-
mer, and so forth, she very adroitly sums up the
whole matter by saying, The two questions
which suggest themselves in regard to this "fore
most good feature" of Senator Edmund's bill,
therefore, are—first, where is the justice of it?
and secondly, where is the use?
	This phrase, "foremost good feature," is from 
the Boston  Herald, a very popular paper and
ably edited, but opposed to woman suffrage.
	The Herald had said, "Senator Edmund's new 
anti-polygamy bill contains several good fea-
tures, foremost among which is the provision
abolishing woman suffrage in Utah.  This right
of the slaves and dupes of the Mormons has
proved a bulwark of defense for polygamy, and
it should be withdrawn."
	People stand off at a distance and call the
women who have helped to lay the foundations
of this Territory dupes and slaves.  It is easy
calling names, but is it fair?
	The Mormon women pioneers were most of 
them from the Eastern States.  They were
women of the intelligence and endurance, with
strong religious convictions like their foremoth-
ers and fathers, the Pilgrims.  Their religion
was dearer to them than their lives, for many
died, and those who lived, lived as it were by
faith.  Privation and hardship, poverty and toil
were their daily companions.  Yet through all,
the implicit confidence in  God that He would
be the God of Israel in the latter as in the for-
mer times supported them while passing through
the most severe ordeals.  It was given to the
Mormon people to open up this great country,
they had the nerve to endure it because they
were actually driven into these mountain fast-
nesses.  And it was also a fulfillment of proph-
ecy.
	But to return to the subject of the franchise.
Women in almost every part of the civilized
world are agitating this question, and it is but a
matter of time, for woman's star has risen and
the brilliancy of its light is peering into dark
places and illuminating the darkness of centu-
ries.  When women combine together with
great tenacity of purpose it will be strange in-
deed if they do not succeed in their undertak-
ings.  As the poet says,

"Where is the man who has the tact and skill
To stem the current of a woman's will?
For when she will she will, you may depend on't,
And when she won't she won't, and there's an end
on't."

Mormon women are no exception to this gener-
al rule.  They are as positive and strong willed
as other women.  Principle controls them.
They have e[-]poused a faith, a doctrine, and they
maintain it and sustain it with as much fervor
and devotion as do "Mormon" men.
	They are as jealous of their rights as any other
class of women on the face of the earth, but
they are also ready and willing to make sacri-
fices of self upon the alter of their faith.  Should

[Column 3]
they be despised for this?  Is it not honorable?
Have not martyrs and heroes in all ages of the
world done the same thing? Why are "Mor-
mons" despised and hated because they are zeal-
ous and ready to make sacrifices for their relig-
ion, while others who have taken the same
course are held up as patterns of zeal and fideli-
ty to a noble cause?
	There is a large class of women who are work-
ing for equal political rights, and they are fast
becoming a power in the land—and by and bye
that power will be an overwhelming force, and
the Congress of the United States will pay more
respect to them than it seems inclined to do 
now.
	We wish these advocates of woman suff[-]age
success.  The time has come when woman's 
moral forces are needed in the regulating of
laws for the suppression of vice and crime.  Are 
they not an interested party? It is not alone
because of unjust taxation and a desire to stand
equal with their husbands and brothers, but it
is for the better protection of the home, the
foundation of all good government that women
are asking and interceding for political rights.
It is a broad and  momentous question.
	Most sincerely do we appreciate the noble
stand taken by this women of New York, who 
sp[-]ke in defense of our right of franchise, and
we know that every woman who has voted in
Utah and felt the privilege a sacred boon will
join with us in thanking these intelligent ladies
for manifesting an interest in our cause.
	There are several ladies who have spoken pub-
licly on our question in  times past in the halls
of Congress and before Committess, who de-
serve to be faithfully remembered by the Mor-
mon people, and to have their names recorded
for their courage and fearlessness in airing an un-
popular cause, and one which they knew would
bring censure upon them.  Foremost among 
these noble and grand women are Mrs. Sara An-
drews Spencer, Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood, of
Washington, and Miss Matilda Hindman, of
Pennsylvania, and Mrs. Elizabeth Lisle Saxon,
of New Orleans.
	Perchance we have some friends still, and if
not we know in whome to trust, and in the fu-
ture as in the past, we will look to Him for pro-
tection who will not let a sparrow fall without
His notice.  Think of it, ye wise men and great,
and consider well the policy you would adopt
towards a people whose pronounced religious
principles has caused the worled to hate them.


