OUR TRAVELS BEYOND THE
			MISSISSIPPI.
	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
     On the 7th a message came from President
Young, who was twelve miles ahead, requesting
my father and the rest to come on. That day
Horace succeeded in getting a wagon for us
and also a gentle yoke of oxen. Previously we
had had no place in particular. I had traveled
mostly with my mother, and our lodging had
been, like that of hundreds of others, on the
ground. But here was a new lesson for
Horace, who from a school boy in Kirtland
had done little else but printing and school
teaching—yoking up and driving oxen he had
never before undertaken. On the 9th, after
leaving this place, he wrote, “Started this
morning about eight o’clock—took my first les-
son in the science of oxology.” On taking the
ox whip to drive, the first thing he did was to
go on the wrong side, and then had to endure
the roars of laughter from several of ths boys
who were standing ready to witness his first
effort, but some of them were quite as green
as himself in the practice of ox driving. But
after seeing his chagrin one of them took the
whip and drove a little ways to give him an
idea how it was done, and he soon became as
handy in yoking, unyoking and driving ox-
teams as any of the boys, and even some of
our sisters were schooled in the  same science
before we got to our journey’s end, as numbers
of our brethren who came out from Nauvoo as
teamsters, returned after a little; some of them
taking their teams with them, after we had ob-
tained some from other quarters.  We had
doors, generally, cut on the left side of the
wagon covers. Boxes and bags of grain, etc.,
were packed in the rear part of our wagon,
upon which our bed was made. We had our
provision chest in front, which served as a ta-
ble, and between was just room for my chair—
this being my only piece of furniture—the
most of our household chattels having been
left in our house in Nauvoo. I could now knit
and read as we traveled, and Horace could
read or play his flute as he liked, and none, I
think, but those who had a like experience can
form the slightest idea of the appreciation and
happiness it gave us, to have a little wagon all
to ourselves, which, under the circumstances,
was next thing to paradise.
     “On taking the team to drive,” Horace says,
I went into Brother Kimball’s company—had
not gone far before it commenced to rain,
which continued through the day and night—
traveled seven miles and encamped about six
p.m. on the open prairie, in one of the most
disagreeably muddy places I remember ever to
have seen—drove our horses and cattle about
a mile to the nearest wood, which consisted,
principally, of elm trees, and afforded them an
excellent opportunity of browsing. Some of
father’s teams got stuck in the mud, and had
to stop a mile or two back, and none reached
us except Joseph Kingsbury with the buggy,
the one horse wagon, and Sarah Ann’s wagon.
Bro. Pond broke his harness in attempting to
extricate himself from a mud hole. Bro. Lo-
renzo Young and others of our company were
unable to come up, as also Parley P. Pratt and
his company.”
     The muddy camping place, mentioned by
Horace, was one not easily to be forgotten.
The dismal places were the ones that seemed
to impress themselves the most indelibly upon
my memory, but this one really had its pleas-
ant side, for I remember how grateful I felt
there to be under a tight wagon cover, where
we were comfortable and secure from the cold
and beating rain, which; falling upon the cov-
er, served as a kind of lullaby to soothe us to
sleep. And in the morning my cousin Netty,
the head cook, brought us some warm eatables,
requesting me to stay in the wagon, as she
would rather bring our breakfast to us than
have me bothering around in the mnd, to which
arrangement we very cheerfully submitted.
     “Friday, 10th,” wrote Horace, “This morn-
ing found the rain had not ceased falling, bnt
on the contrary, pouring down with redoubled
vigor.  Getting our cattle from the woods, we
started about noon, doubling our teams, when
it cleared off—leaving Joseph C. Kingsbury
behind, as also three of Bro. Kimball’s teams
in the care of Hans C. Hanson—traveled three
miles and a half and encamped at three p. m.
on the East Fork of Locust Creek, near where
Brigham had previously encamped—one of the
most beautiful locations for an encampment
my eyes had ever beheld, in fact it seemed as
if expressly designed for our use, and in con-
trast with the place where we had last stopped,
a perfect paradise.”
     “Saturday, 11th. Bro. Kimball’s horses, ox
teams and men, including myself, went back
after the wagons left behind. Wm. Kimball
put four of his horses on Sarah Ann’s wagon,
and one ox team was taken back a mile fur-
ther to pull one of father’s teams out of a mud
hole, and the folks all got to the camp about
half past three o’clock—the same time we did
with the ox teams. When we arrived found
Brigham here with two other brethren—they
were in council. Bro. B’s camp is two miles
from here.	*	*	To-day made a coal
pit that we might be able to do some black-
smithing.”
     “Sunday, 12th.	*	*	A meeting
was called at 11 a.m.,present, B. Young. H. C.
Kimball, P. P. Pratt, O. Pratt, A. Lyman, G.
A. Smith, J. Taylor, Bishops Whitney and
Miller, and several others. Bro Young spoke;
gave some good instruction, and concluded
with a plan for our future movements--that
was to send fifty men ahead to the source of
Grand River, and then to make some improve-
ments--fence in about two miles square—build
some huts, plant some grain and  garden seeds,
then save their garden seeds, which would not
otherwise keep any length of time—after that
for the main body to follow them—from here
we are to take a north-west course till we ar-
rive at the head of Grand River--from there
proceed to Council Bluffs, on the Missouri
River, then over the mountains, leaving be- 
hind at our new settlements those that
have not the means to prosecute the journey,
thereby furnishing a sojourning place for those
who may hereafter come on from the States.
Bro. Brigham and the brethren with him went
back to their camp after having taken dinner.
In the afternoon Bro. Kimball called a meet-
ing; gave some good advice to the brethren—
partook of the sacrament and dismissed with
prayer.	*	*	*	The weather has
continued fine since Friday last. To-day a
number of our teams, also two of Bro. Kim-
ball’s, went to bring np the remainder of our
company, viz: Bro. Lorenzo Young, Lyman
Whitney, and a wagon that father had left be-
hind. We are now in Putman Co., Missouri.”
   “Tuesday, 14th. Struck our tents and pro-
ceeded to Bro. Brigham’s camp,	*	*	where


[Column 1]

we arrived late in the day.	*	*	Had
to double our teams some distance across the
bottom, as also the hill on which we encamped.
*	*	Soon after arriving went to Brother
Willard Richards' tent, which is called the
post office of the camp of Israel, where Charles
Decker had just arrived from Nauvoo, bearer
of a number of messages and letters." That
evening the band also came up, and they
played for President Young and father before
retiring. All remained at this place till Thurs-
day except Bishop Miller and company, they
went ahead next morning. Horace wrote:—
"This afternoon the pioneers of our company,
consisting of about twenty men, with others
from Bro. Brigham's camp, started for the head
of Grand River.	*	*	Bro. Kimball
gave them a good deal of advise, such as never
to involve themselves in any quarrels, strifes or
contentions with the inhabitants, but on the
contrary, to court their favor by every possible
means in their power. Bro's Kimball and
Markham accompanied them a short distance
on their route, and gave them other good coun-
sel.	*	*	Hans Hanson took his cow
and went with them."
	As I learned, through the mail, that Wm.
Clayton was the father of a child by his wife,
Diantha Farr, who was left with her parents in
Nauvoo. I bore the tidings to Wm., whose de-
light knew no bounds, and that evening Hor-
ace, myself and a number were invited over to
their camp, Wm. being one of the band, whose
encampment was only a short distance from
ours, and which event Horace mentions thus:
"In the evening there was a grand christening
held at Bro. Clayton's camp, in celebration of
the birth of his child in Nauvoo."	*	*
	Thursday 16th. Left our encampment at
half past 9 a.m., proceeded about six miles and
encamped at 2 p.m. on the prairie near where
Bro. John Taylor and George A. Smith had
encamped the night previously. To-day eight
rattlesnakes were killed by our company, and
two of the oxen in the same were bitten. One
of Wm. Kimball's horses lips was swelled con-
siderably, supposed to be occasioned by the bite
of a rattlesnake. To-day is the first time we
have seen any of these reptiles on our journey."
I remember that day, and of seeing our men
killing snakes in the grass, where our tents
were afterwards pitched, and it was enough to
give one nervous spasms to see them, and then
to think of sleeping in the neighborhood of
such dangerous enemies.
	Horace continues:—"As we progress on our
route game grows quite plenty, more especially
deer and turkeys, of which there are several
almost daily brought into our camp; vegetation,
also, is now commencing to spring up around
us, which we consider quite a blessing, as we
have had no corn for our cattle for two or three
days. Brother Brigham and the band are en-
camped within half a mile of our place—on ar-
riving here had to drive our cattle a mile or
two to give them a good chance to feed."
On the morning of the 17th our company
proceeded about eight miles and encamped in
a grove of hickory on a stream called Medicine
Greek, named by the Indians, no doubt. Prest.
Young, Bp. Whitney and others, with the
band, had encamped three quarters of a mile
ahead, and father, learning this, determined to
go on.
	Horace says:—"We started about five p.m.,
and after descending the hill and crossing the
creek we were detained by the fire on the
prairie about three quarters of an hour, and a
number of us were obliged to stand by with
sticks to whip out the fire in order to make
onrselves a road" or passage through it; we then
went on without interruption to the place where
the rest of our company were encamped. Here,
also, we overtook Bp Miller's company. Our
two principal hunters, Bro's Higher and Smith,
went out before starting this morning, and cut

[Column 2]

down two bee trees, bringing into the commis-
sary three pails full of first rate honey—they
also killed two deers and turkeys during the
day, which was distributed to the company."
Saturday, 18th. Father started his wagon
and we went two miles and camped, when he
returned to a council, Horace says, which "con-
sisted of the principal authorities of the Church,
together with the captains of tens, fifties, hun-
dreds, etc. Their decision was in accordance
with the former suggestions of Prest. B. Young.
Council being over father, with his family
started aud came up with us, Bro. Brigham re-
maining behind, as also Bp. Miller and the
band. Bro. Taylor is encamped within a short
distance of us—took a short fishing excursion
down the creek this evening—caught three fish
but not very large ones; some few cat fish. This
afternoon they sent into the country for corn."
	"Sunday, 19th. Fine weather this morning,
Porter and Edwin Cutler came from Nauvoo
with the mail to-day; left there last Thursday.
Some families have started and are starting
from there all the time. This afternoon, at
four oclock, a meeting was called between Bro.
Taylor's and our camp. Bro's Taylor and Kim-
ball spoke at some length, giving a great deal
of good instruction, cheering up the hearts of
all. Bro. Kimball told us it would be neces-
sary to allow only one half pound of bread
stuff per day to each individual for 500 days in
going 1,500 miles over the mountains. Had a
letter from our pioneers, stating that they had
a job to do of building a jail and storehouse,
worth $250, on the East Fork of Grand River,
thirty miles from here. Yesterday wolves were
seen around the camp."
	"Monday, 20th. Beautiful day, the birds
begin to sing, grass to grow, and everything as-
sumes a pleasant aspect. Bro. Pack came in
with one of the teams sent out after corn.	*
They had to pay 20 cts. per bushel. Brother
Spencer, who has been a long way back, just
came up with us this afternoon. In' the last
mail Bro. Kimball received a number of the
Hancock Eagle. He and father went back to-
day to attend the general council."
	"Tuesday, 21st. Bro. Hosea Cushing and
Wm. King, who had been adopted into father's
family, came in, bringing twenty-two bushels
of corn. My brother Wm. not returning with
them prevented father from starting that day.
Bro. Brigham and Bp. Miller and companies
passed us that morning. An Indian was seen
for the first time passing through our camp—
there was said to be an Indian encampment
somewhere in that vicinity—were out hunting.
Bro. Pond and Durfee, who came that far with
their teams to assist Bp. Whitney, were releas-
ed that day with their teams to return to Nau-
voo to their families. That evening it com-
menced raining, and continued most of the
night, accompanied by thunder and lightning.
Father and Bp. Whitney arranged their load-
ing while there—taking out some things to dis-
pose of for provisions to the inhabitants. Horace
wrote four letters for my father to send back
by Porter—namely: to two of his wives, Sarah
Noon and Amanda Gheen, Bro. Winchester,
Bro's O. Hyde and W. Woodruff."
	"Thursday, 23rd," Horace wrote, "This after-
noon Wm. came back, having explored most
of the country as far as Grand River—saw our
pioneers there, who, he says, find plenty of work
to do—cattle are rather scarce there, an Ore-
gon company having traversed the region
round and engaged above 500 yoke of cattle
previous to his arrival. Bro's Pond, Porter,
Vm. Cutler and Father Durfee started back
to-day, taking two buggies with. them. Porter
took my watch with him to get fixed. About
three o'clock p.m. we started and went four
miles, and encamped about dusk on the edge
of a ravine in the open prairie, where there
was beautifnl feed for our oxen and horses, the
grass being of very high and thick growth,"


