DESTRUCTION AND DESOLATION
		YET TO COME.
			------
DEAR SISTERS:
	I often think how good it is that we have
the privilege of meeting together in our Asso-
ciations, and exchanging our  thoughts, for in
this way, we become unified.
	We learn in Doctrine and Covenants 143rd


page, 7th verse, that the elect of God are those
who do not harden their hearts.  The 8th
verse says; "Wherefore, the decree hath gone
forth from the Father, that they shall be
gathered in unto one place upon the face of
this land, to prepare their hearts and be pre-
pared in all things against the day when tribu-
lation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked."
	I think if any people on the earth have
cause to rejoice it is the Latter-day Saints, and
yet we mourn to think there is so much hard-
ness of heart in the world, for the majority of
mankind reject the revelations which our
Heavenly Father has revealed in this dispen-
sation, whereby the inhabitants of the earth may
escape the calamities which will surely come.
	Doctrine and Covenants 144th page, 18th
and 19th verses says: "Wherefore, I, the Lord
God will send forth flies upon the face of the
earth, which shall take hold of the inhabit-
ants thereof, and shall eat their flesh, and
shall cause maggots to come in upon them, and
their toungues shall be staid, that they shall not
utter against me, and their flesh shall fall
from off their bones, and their eyes from their
sockets."
	The 20th verse says: "And it shall come to 
pass that the beasts of the forest and the fowls
of the air shall devour them up.:
	We do not fear, we only pity those who are
seeking to take our rights and liberties from us,
for we know to well what their fate will be.
The Bible also speaks of many things that will
befall those who persecute the church or Saints
of God.  Isaiah, 49th chapter, 26th verse says:
"And I will feed them that oppress thee with
their own flesh, and they shall  be drunken
with their own blood as with sweet wine, and
all flesh shall know that I, the Lord, am thy
Savior, and thy Redeemer, the Mighty One of
Jacob."
	In the 9th chapter of the Revelations of St.
John, it refers to locusts being sent upon the
earth, and unto them was given power as the
scorpions, and they should not hurt the grass
of the earth, neither any green thing, neither
any tree; but only those men which have not
the seal of God in their foreheads.
	The 6th says; "And in those days men shall
seek death, and shall not find it; and shall de-
sire to die and death shall flee from them. The
locusts are compared as horses prepared for
battle, and on their heads were, as it were,
crowns like gold, and their faces were as the
faces of men.."
	The 10th verse says: "And they had tails
like unto scorpions, and there were stings in
their tails: and their powere was to hurt men 
five months." Much more is said, but I
thought this enought.
	We feel more like praying for those who op-
press us, that they may repent while there is
time.  As for the true Saints, if we lay our
lives down in this cause we know that we shall
find them again.
					MARY J. MORRISON.
Manuscript Paper, Young Ladies' Herald of
Union, Spanish Fork, Dec. 17th 1883.


