THE HUNTINGTON GATHERING.

	The event of the season with us, as a family, was the
gathering of all the members of the Huntington family
possible, at Springville last Christmas. It seems so pleas-
ant to record scenes of joy and gladness in this world of
disappointment and sorrow, and among the bright spots
of my life will ever gleam that of my meeting with my
loved and honored kindred, the 25th of December
1883.
	Onr programme was as follows: Visiting cousins,
aunts, uncles, etc. through the day, and at six p.m. we
all assembled at the City Hall, a large and beautiful
building, which had been secured for the occasion by
William, the eldest male member of our kin in this Ter-
ritory. The large hall was brilliantly lighted; with
dear Aunt Presendia, my honored mother and dear Aunt
Fanny, Uncle Dimick's widow, Uncle's William and
Oliver sitting on the stage, made as grand and beauti-
ful a picture as one would wish to look at, with a few
friends and sub members of the family as a back ground.
Facing them, in the body of the hall, were the sons and
daughters with their husbands and wives and their
children; which are not a few, and a few invited friends,
complete the picture. A solemn hush, a sweet peace
stole over the assembly, broken by that immortal
hymn "O! My Father." Prayer by Bishop Packard. A
song selected from the history of the Huntingtons, that
was composed for a similar occasion, in Stanford Conn.,
1857, "A Welcome," Wm. Huntington; "Selections
from family history," O. B. Huntington; "Speech,"
Presendia Kimball; "Speech," Zina D. Young; "Address,"

[Column 2]

in behalf of Dimick Huntington, deceased, Z. Jacobs.
These last three speeches were delivered while the four
original members, with Aunt Fanny, supported by Zeb-
nion, who spoke for her, were standing in a semicircle
on the stage, and was truly a very touching little scene.
Then came an original poem, written for the occasion
by Bro. William Clegg.
	[Poem.]
A gratifying aspect we here to-day behold,
A sight of more attractiveness than a store of shining
	gold;
A host of people, in whose veins there flows one kindred
	blood,
Who have come to greet each other with feelings pure
	and good;
The representatives are they of an illustrious line,
Whose noble deeds in days of old on history's pages
	shine.
The Huntingtons successors of a bold and manly sire,
Whose heart in old chivalrous times beat high with 
	martial fire;
A race of leading spirits through the ages that have
	stood,
Well known and foremost in the ranks among the brave
	and good,
The name was one that should endure, as plainly now
	appears,
For vastly it has multiplied as onward come the years?
What numbers must have answered to this greatly
	honored name
Since it first shone conspicuously upon the roll of
	fame.
Yes, since the bold "Siward" drew forth his glittering
	sword
To the present time, did hist'ry room for our name af-
	ford.
In the eleventh century, (more than eight hundred
	years
Have fled, since first on Albion's annals "Huntington"
	appears).
'Twas placed on "Siward" by the king for faithfulness
	maintained
In aiding Malcolm to the throne Macbeth through crime
	had gained;
To unseat this vile "Usurper" valiantly he fought,
Performed his duty well, as by his times and conscience
	taught,
And England's King, admiring much his actions in the
	field,
Appreciation plainly by exalting him revealed,
As a mark of "Royal Favor" the Monarch on him placed
A "Title," whence the wide spread name we proudly 
	own was traced;
In peace, in war, at home, abroad in struggles for the
	right,
In law, in education, dispensing truth and light
In the vanguard ever present, in science, or in art,
In all that seemed for human good the Huntingtons
	took part;
And when the land that gave them birth their liberties
	denied,
Some crossed the broad Atlantic and intolerance defied.
In sixteen hundred thirty-three a pilgrim crowd were
	found
Their native land forsaking, for the home of freedom
	bound,
But ere they reach the shore the "resistless shaft,, is
	thrown,
And the leader, Simon Huntington, by death is stricken
	down.
There while his wife and children in bitter anguish
	weep
He sinks into the ocean to take his last, long sleep.
His sons are our forefathers, a few here that claim can
	boast,
But through this great "Republic" they form a mighty
	host,
As teachers and examplars in morals widely known,
A band of men who never fear their sentiments to own.
The stream of time still rolling on brought on the Lat-
	ter-days,
When the fulness of the Gospel sheds forth its glorious
	rays;
The cause of universal good the Huntingtons espouse,
And strive the sleeping millions from slumber to arouse.
Yes, some all risking for the truth have braved a frown-
	ing world,
And in the face of bigotry the Gospel flag unfurled;
They find their noble lineage links with Abraham of
	old,
A pedigree more precions than earth's princes may un-
	fold,

[Column 3]

They, too, have learned how they can aid the myriads
	passed away,
And meet them all in glory in a fast approaching day.
To say that all were faultless, that none recreant had
	been,
Would claim for human nature what never yet was
	seen;
But here we see rejoicing a goodly number met,
Inclined to bless each other and all errors to forget.
Let those who love the Gospel its riches still proclaim,
And never dim the lustre of their' grand, historic name.
And those who may have stepp'd aside in a dark and
	trying day,
Reform at once, and travel on the bright celestial way.
Then when this mortal life is o'er and all in death shall
	rest,
May all now present meet again, in mansions of the
	blest.	WILLIAM CLEGG.
	This was followed by songs, recitations; next danc-
ing; how we did dance. The old ones led out, then
came the children; it seemed like old times, for every
eye beamed love, and every lip was wreathed in smiles.
	Much of our enjoyment was due our kind and noble
friend, Brother Boyer, who devoted himself to our enjoy-
ment the whole evening; "his kindness shall never be
forgot." Supper, and such a banquet! it was grand!
The table did not groan exactly, but we did. Over two
hundred partook of the bounteous feast.
	At midnight we separated, each heart filled with
gratitude and love for such a "never to be forgotten"
event.
	A member of the Huntington family.
