OGDEN, WEBER CO.

	Minutes of the 18th Quarterly Conference
of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Co., held in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Saturday, December
8th, 1883, President Sarah Herrick presiding.
After the usual opening exercises and reading
of minutes Prest. Herrick addressed the meet-
ing. She was truly thankful that we were
privileged to meet this morniug under so favor-
able circumstances, and that we were favored
with the presence of Sister Zina Young and
several of the brethren. Felt a deep interest
for her young sisters, and desired to do all in
her power to assist them to become wiser and
better; could see they were improving; hoped
they would continue to attend their meetings,
and ever make good use of the time allotted
them.
	Verbal reports were given by Presidents E.
N. Hill of the 1st Ward Association; R:
Monch, 4th Ward; E. S. Richards, 2nd Ward;
M. M. Halls, Huntsville. Each felt encou-
aged, by the advancement the members were
making, to continue their labors. Notwith-
standing their efforts to induce all the young
ladies to attend the meetings, some appeared
careless and indifferent, such they intended to
visit, and try by every means in their power to
awaken. They desired to live humble and
prayerful, ever seeking the Spirit of the Lord
to guide them, that their labors might result in
much good.
	Sister Zina D. Young had listened with in-
terest and pleasure to the minutes and reports.
Believed a good work was being done by the
associations of this county, which she trusted
would continue. Wished to see the youth of
Zion excel in everything that was good; and in
order to do this they must have pure hearts,
must be obedient to those placed to lead them,
seek to learn and practice that which is right,
and eschew all evil. After having Sister Jos-
ephine West read from a discourse of Prest.
Taylor's what he had said in regard to round
dancing, wished all who felt to carry out this
counsel to raise their hands. Many, if not all
hands were raised. This she said gave her
pleasure, for she was satisfied they would re-
ceive a blessing by so doing. Prest. Young
did not approve of this amusement and desired
that the people would not engage in it. Urged
her young sisters to attend their meetings reg-
ularly, to observe the word of wisdom, be kind
and obedient to their parents, and seek to pre-
pare themselves to fill honorably the noblest
position to which they can aspire, that of wife
and mother. Spoke of the Primary Associa-
tion, said it was our duty to encourage the
children to do right and attend their meetings.
Her prayer was that the Lord would bless and
prepare us to enter His presence with a fulness
of glory.
	Elder Joseph E. West was indeed pleased to
see the young ladies so ready to observe the
admonition of Prest. Taylor in regard to our
amusements. The Central Board of the Young
Men's Associations of this County were making
arrangements to give a series of parties in Og-
den, and a committee had been appointed to
visit the Y. L. Association to ascertain if they
would join them. They intended to conduct
these parties strictly in accordance with the
wishes of our leaders. They would hold a
meeting to-morrow night in the vestry, and
Prest. Anderson would like the officers of the
Y. L. A. to meet with them. Without a union
of effort and action we could not accomphish
what we desired. We must work in harmony,
and use our influence in the right direction.
 Meeting adjourned till 2 p.m.
 Afternoon session. Congregation sang, "Re-
deemer of Israel." Prayer was offered by
Bishop Robert Mc.Quarrie. Presidents M. E.


[Column 1]
Russell, of Riverdale; Annie Madsen, of Mar-
riotts; Ellen Waldron, North Ogden; and Mary
A. Crane, of Lynne, then reported the condi-
tion of the Association over which they presi-
ded. The reports were very similar to those
given in the forenoon. All thought the coun-
sel in regard to our amusements was good;
would try to observe it and help others to do
so. The Riverdale young ladies had already
given up round dancing, as it had been known
to them, by one of their number speaking in
tongues, that it was displeasing in the sight of
God.
	Prest. L. W. Shurttiff was gratified to see
the interest manifested by those called to pre-
side over the associations of this county. He
felt to say, God bless them and help them to do
the good their hearts desire. Could assure his
young sisters that if they would follow the ad-
vice of those placed to guide them, all would
be well. Sincerely hoped they would give
heed to Prest. Taylor's instructions, which we
had heard read to-day. Spoke at considerable
length on the many duties devolving upon us
as saints; also gave many words of praise and
encouragement. Prayed the blessings of the
Lord to rest upon all who were striving to
work righteousness.
	The meeting was also addressed by Bishop
R. Mc.Quarrie, Elders Wm. R. Stowell, L. J.
Herrick, Counselors Emily S. Richards and
Josephine R. West. Each heartily endorsed
all that had been said, and felt to do all in
their power to assist in carrying out the in-
structions of Prest. Taylor.
	Counselor E. S. Richards thought it would
be wisdom to discard round dancing altogether,
and took a vote to learn how many were of the
same mind. A majority were in favor of
abandoning it.
	Prest Herrick felt that the excellent teach-
ings we had received to-day would prove a
great blessing to us, for she was satisfied that
we would not only remember, but practice
them. Would endeavor to have her young la-
dies comply with the wishes of those in author-
ity, and would try by her example and advice
to encourage them to love the truth, and do
only that which is right. Warmly thanked all
who had contributed to make the meeting so
pleasant and interesting, and adjourned the
conference for three months.
				R. CANFIELD, Secretary.

