QUESTION.

	We are pleased to note the stand which has
been taken by the Executive Committee of the
New York State Woman Suffrage Association
on the proposal of Senator Edmunds, to de-
prive the ladies of Utah of franchise. This is
highly commendable and much more saint-like
than the course advocated by him and others,
who are becoming cranky upon this "Mormon"
wife question—at least, when undertaking to
solve what they term "a problem," which does
not exist, only in their imagination. We
would like to ask some of the proud ladies of
our Christian land, whose squeamishness over
this plural order causes them to turn up their
eyes in such holy horror, and their lips with
scorn and contempt at the name of "Mormon,"
and also those who would advocate the extreme-
nation remedy proposed by some of their Chris-
tian divines and lady lecturers, who like Mrs.
Newman would like to see all "Mormon" wo-
men disfranchised, and feel themselves justified
in so doing, and sending circular letters to all
countries from whence the "Mormons" draw
their converts, describing the horrors of poly-
gamy in Utah, at the same time professing
for us such charity, do they fully realize, were
they to accomplish their ends, the great amount
of suffering, the weeping, the wailing and ut-
ter desolation that this would bring to the
hearts of the widow and the fatherless, whose
cries would ascend up daily and hourly to Him
who has promised to be their Father, until He
would avenge them of their wrongs? Do any
of them suppose for a moment that the women
of Utah would be such fools as to leave homes,
where they are called by the honored name of
wife, and their children acknowledged as law-
ful heirs to the father's name and estate, to
work in their establishments to earn their daily
bread? What palpable ignorance is exhibited
by such. It makes one laugh it sounds so lu-
dicrous. The idea of the ones who desire mak-
ing their escape from this Territory to do so by
an underground railroad. Why, one might
suppose that Mr. Newman had been asleep as
long as old Rip Van Winkle, and we feel to
pity him, we do indeed; and all the rest of them,
and were we not the most charitable people in
the world we should despise them for their ig-
norance, their superstition and slavish subjec-
tion to the current of popular opinion and
popular sentiment. But we assure such that we
are laboring for their enlightenment and their
elevation in the scale of manhood. And would
that they could see their own situation, and re-
alize that the most alarming and crying evils
of the day—the twin relic if they please—
which has so utterly demoralized society is
nearer home than Utah. We think it high
time that some effective and lasting remedy
should be administered instead of legalizing
the crimes of political theft and prostitution—
letting the harlot, the fornicator, the adulterer
and the murderer of innocents go "scot free,"
instead of fighting an imaginary evil which
has borne no such fruits. These are some of
the common usages and customs among those
self-righteous souls who preach morality and
go into occasional spasms over the marrying
propensity of these "Mormons," and would
trample them under foot, also the constitution,
and every law and principle of our govern-
ment, which we were taught from our earliest
childhood to love and revere. But will they


dare to apply this anti-republican, anti-chris-
tian method to the “Mormons,” and continue to
allow their vile and wicked practices to be
carried on right under the very nose of Chris-
tendom, and all these things be sustained and
screened under its broad mantle?  We would
welcome the honorable of the earth, and would
that they could all come and see for themselves,
if they would only let reason rule instead of
prejudice and hatred, the offspring of these
sleek and crawling sycophants and scandal-
mongers,who gain their living in our midst by
lying and distorting every truth to deceive the
simple and unwary—there is no other place
where such creatures could remain unpunished,
and the innocent be made the target of the
press and the pulpit—united only in the one
scheme—sweeping us out of existence, and tak-
ing possession of the rich harvest that lies so
temptingly before them.
  But though the hundreth decree has gone
forth that “Mormonism” must die, it never be-
fore appeared so much like living—in fact it
seems to have taken a new lease, and the heav-
ier the breeze, the swifter we will sail into note
and popularity.  Though our enemies have
never yet accomplished their ends, still they
seem very jubilant over their great expecta-
tions, particularly from the present philan-
thropic measures of Mr. Cullom, and there are
thousands who are willing and anxious to set
the dogs on us to speedily finish up their foul
work.  But we ask, in all conscience, why the
knife should not be first placed at the root of
the cancer which is eating and undermining
their own social circles, and if nothing else will
do but bloodshed let them begin there instead
of waging war upon an “ignorant, benighted
and superstious people, who are just simple
enough to accept the truth and nothing but the
truth, however humble may be the source; and
therefore are not half so likely to spoil as are
those who dwell in the polluted atmosphere of
the great metropolis, of which all are so well
posted—their own press being filled with ac-
counts of the most dishonest, wicked, corrupt,
and desperate deeds in high and low places,
and such unheard of crimes—that the sound of
it is enough to make one’s very blood curdle in
his veins.  The Latter-day Saints may feel
proud to be distinguished by their title, and
God grant that we may ever be worthy of this
distinction.  As President George Q. Cannon
remarked, in our late conference, “He evident-
ly designed this land for just such a people as
the Saints, and their enemies have driven them
to the fulfillment of their destiny.”
    Whose wrath is the most to be dreaded that
of the Almighty or that of His subjects, for
instance, these pharisees, priests, office-seekers,
and a few men who now form the Supreme
Court of the United States? Who besides Him
has the right or the power to prescribe for us
our religious belief and practice?  He tells us
that faith without works is dead—but Congress
passes a law to prohibit the free exercise there-
of, when they know as well as we, that they
are forbidden to do this by the Constitution--
Polygamy is upheld by Scripture, which they
also know. Then away with their flimsy ex-
cuses.  They hate us just as Cain hated Abel,
because we are favored of God, and it is our
union which they dread, and our wealth and
power is what they covet.
