WASHED TO DEATH.

	I am aware that in writing upon the subject of wash-
ing little children too much I will come in contact with
an old-time established custom, which is more univer-
sally indulged in to-day than ever before. Most of the
mothers think that if they do not wash their little bod-


[Column 1]

les over once or twice every day they have neglected
their little darlings almost beyond forgiveness. Mothers,
it is not so, but by the washing of them yon have done
them a life-long injury. Some may stop here, not wish-
ing to read any further. To such I would say, read the
article through and reflect upon and comprehend the
plain self-evident facts herein contained, and then if you
are not convinced that little children are washed too
much I will trouble you no more upon the subject.
	Man was not made nor constituted to be an amphibi-
ous animal, in fact his whole body naturally resists the
outward application of water, and most children decid-
edly object to it when old enough to say so; then the
daily washing of them usually ceases; but my object is
to speak for those who are not old enough to speak for
themselves, during which time the greatest injury is
done to them.
	The principal office of the pores of the skin is to pass
off constantly an insensible perspiration, and in a 
healthy person they will allow just enongh to escape to
keep the system in a healthy condition, without any ar-
tificial appliances. Nature will do its own work. The
application of water to the skin opens and relaxes these
pores, which will allow a superabundance of insensible
perspiration to escape, and anyone can readily under-
stand that this would weaken, not only the pores and
skin, but the whole body, if often repeated.
	Most children when born, and for a few days after-
wards, have healthy pores, with a lively glow on the
skin and a firmness to their flesh, which would remain
and the glow gradually wear off if nature were allowed
to take its own course, but they all soon disappear after
being subjected to the daily water baths, and in the
place of the glow on the skin it assumes a sickly, pale
white, and the firm flesh becomes soft and flabby, al-
though the child may be fleshy, and there is but little
muscle in the arms, and when handled the flesh almost
seems to leave the bone. In fact healthy pores need
washing no more than healthy bowels need physic, and
the former is weakening and injurious to the human
system as well as the latter, and who would think of
giving physic to their children daily as they give them
their baths.
 	Healthy men have been brought to extreme weakness
by taking a daily bath, but have regained their usual
strength and vigor after omitting the baths, and boys
have received lasting injuries by going in swimming too
often or by staying in the water too long. The judici-
ous farmer is careful not to irrigate his grain too young
or too much, knowing that if he does so it will turn
pale and lessen his crop at the time of harvest. How
much more ought mothers and nurses to be careful of
the tender plants under their charge, and not wash
them too much and thereby weaken them and lessen
their harvest of life.
	Man and the horse are similarly constituted. Who
ever saw a colt take a voluntary bath, or even the
young of any animal to do so. All nature proclaims
against it.
	Bathing is good in consumption, liver complaint and
other diseases when the pores need opening. Emetics
are also beneficial in some sicknesses, but who would
give a daily emetic to their children? Medicine that is
good in sickness is injurious in health. Water is a
powerful extractor of the electricity aud other health
promoting elements of the human system, as may be
witnessed by placing the hand in warm water for a 
short time. It soon becomes white, wrinkled and weak-
ened.
	Some may ask, "How often should I wash my body?"
There are some parts that need spunging off daily, but
some physicians decidedly object to their little children
being bathed all over in water oftener than once in a
week or two. And then, mothers, why not take the
word of the Lord for it, and use "strong drinks for the
washing of the body." But do not wash daily with
water and then with liquor, for the liquor cannot restore
that which the water has taken away.
	I do not expect to write in this short article an hun-
dredth part of what would be necessary to fully venti-
late a subject so new and in direct contact with an al-
most universal practice, but only sufficient to get the
people to reflect for themselves on the many things con-
nected with this subject too numerous to mention, for
when I reflect upon it I feel, as it were, an inspiration
upon me to call to the mothers to stop and consider for
themselves, and realize what they are doing to the lit-
tle cherubs God has given-them, and forbear before it is
too late.
	I do not wish to be understood by adopting the cap-
tion of this piece that I think the children are washed
to death at the time of giving them their baths, but by

[Column 2]

their pores being opened and relaxed so often, thereby
giving the vitality of life an avenue of escape, reducing
the muscular and nervous powers, debilitating the
whole system, making it more liable to catch cold, re-
quiring a closer confinement from the fresh air, thereby
depriving it of the endurance necessary for the tender
plant to pass safely through teething, measels, whoop-
ing cough and many other complaints that children are
heir to, and they succumb, and death takes them away,
for the doctors nor their medicine cannot restore the vi-
tality which has been slowly but surely washed out of
them, and the parents and relatives are left to mourn
their loss, and wonder why it was so? The answer
could be constantly given, "You have innocently
washed your child to death."	S. F. ATWOOD.


