EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The R. S. of Juab Co. held their Quarterly
Conference in the Nephi Meeting House, Dec.
15th, President Mary Pitchforth presiding.
After the usual devotional exercises, the min-
utes of the previous conference were read, also
the statistical and financial reports.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave verbal reports of their respective wards,
showing them to be in good condition and
working harmoniously with the Priesthood of
God.


Sister Elizabeth Kendall then bore a faith-
ful testimony to the truth of the Gospel; was
truly thankful that her life had been spared to
meet with the sisters again in a conference ca-
pacity; felt that these organizations had been
the greatest blessing ever conferred upon the
sisters, and that they appreciated their privi-
leges and were striving to qualify themselves
for every duty dependant upon them, both tem-
poral and spiritual.
	Counselor Joel Grover was the next speaker;
expressed his gratitude for the privilege of
meeting with the sisters and partaking of the
Good Spirit; exhorted the sisters to faithful-
ness; said the trials and difficulties encumbered
upon us by our enemies seemed to give us en-
ergy and strength.
	Sister Jane Picton spoke of the Salvation
Army in the world, thought the title would be
a very appropriate one for the sisters of the R.
S. Said they were truly a salvation army, for
they were laboring for the temporal as well as
the spiritual salvation of the human family.
Our enemies are doing all they can to anni-
hilate us, but if we are true and free from sin
they cannot overpower us.
	Bishop Udall spoke for a short time, and en-
couraged the sisters in a kind, fatherly way;
prayed for God's blessings to attend their la-
bors. After singing and prayer the conference
adjourned till 2 p.m.
	The conference convened at 2 p.m. accord-
ing to appointment. After singing and prayer
Sister Amy Bigler spoke of the progress of the
society here, and the duties and responsibilities
of mothers in rearing their children.
	Short addresses were made by Sisters Han-
nah Grover, A. Midgely, N. Brown, and R.
Udall, in an encouraging and sisterly man-
ner.
	President Wm. Paxman spoke of the indig-
nation and bitter feelings of the world against
us as a people, of their plots and schemes to
destroy us; also spoke of the financial crisis
which is bound to fall upon this people; advised
all to keep out of debt, be economical and ab-
stain from all unnecessary luxuries; seek the
Spirit of God and act with wisdom in all
things, and be prepared for the great events
which await us.
	President Mary Pitchforth wished to thank
the brethren and sisters for the prayers they
had offered in her behalf during her late ill-
ness; was truly happy to be able to meet with
them in a conference capacity. Conference
adjourned for three months.
			MARY PITCHFORTH, President.
			M. E. HOYT, Secretary.


