[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: THE RIVER OF LIFE. | Author: Unknown]

THE RIVER OF LIFE. 
Broad and majestic gleams its broad bosom,
As rippling it flows to the setting sun;
Ships sail upon it so jaunty and gay—
Their course on the journey has just begun. 
The glint of the sun above the horizon, 
Softly touching their white fluttering sails,
In glory soon bursts dispersing the shadows,
And never the shore wind stops or fails.

Laughter and song, floating out amid music,
Are borne o’er the water, so clear, so blue;
Other ships that are sailing can hear them,
Then join in their dancing and melody too.
From their decks are seen wrecks far away,
Of ships that were fair and oft braved the gale;
Now they are broken, rudderless, wand’ring,
How piteous and sad, how mournful the tale. 

Still onward are sailing some ships of the Past,
Nor song, nor music is heard on them more;
Some whirl with the tide where waters fast foam,
And sink out of sight not far from the shore.
The flap of the sails, the large broken bow,
That brilliantly shone and glistened at morn,
'Neath darkening waves sinks from mortal eyes,
A wreck, a wreck, bright hopes are dead and
	forlorn.

Some still sail stately, standing proud to the breeze,
And over the breakers come safe at last;
Riding into the harbor rejoicing,
For the storms of life overcome, are past.
In the shining waters of heaven’s smooth river,
Safely they anchor under clear, sunny skies,
The shore so fair in the dreamy distance,
Is the glorious land—the fair Paradise.
				LYDIA D. ALDER
May, 1899.


MRS. JULIA WARD HOWE made one of 
the most eloquent speeches at the women’s
great anti-lynching meeting. 
	QUEEN VICTORIA has given orders that 
henceforward the British Museum shall be 
open to the public on Sundays and holi-
days. 
	SUSAN MUNROE STOWE contributes to 
the Youth’s Companion an article on “Har-
riet Beecher Stowe as a Mother.” It is full 
of tender reminiscences.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms; one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel 
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every 
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to
			Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.

