[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | August | Issue: 9 | Title: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF | Author: Unknown]

	INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.
	Preparatory to the Quinquennial which
will be held in 1914 in Rome, congresses of
women are being held in different cities of
the world, where committees of different
departments are appointed and their work
outlined. At Paris, The Hague, Budapest
and Vienna, conferences have already been
held and later each national council will hold
one for special appointments and work. The
United States national council will be held
in October at Port Huron, Mich., and will
be a most important gathering of American
women, for then will be selected the repre-
sentatives from this country to the Interna-
tional at Rome. The International execu-
tive meeting was held last May at The
Hague, where all the councils were reported
by their respective presidents.
	It may be interesting to note that the na-
tional president for the United States, Mrs.
Kate Waller Barrett, in her report, gave a
paragraph to Utah in which she told of her
visit to the state legislature and her impres-
sions when witnessing women as law
makers.
	The great suffrage meeting this year was
held at Budapest and noted women from
all over the world were in attendance. From
America were Carrie Chapman Catt, Ida
Husted Harper, Flo Jennison Miller, Char-
lotte Perkins Gilman, May Wright Sewall
and many other strong and brilliant women.
During the months of July the great Peace
Congress was held at The Hague, where
Mrs. Sewall was one of the most conspic-
uous figures. The following letter tells
most accurately the work of that conference.
Peace and Arbitration are the very impor-
tant subjects the national councils have

[Column 2]
always before them, and naturally one in
which women are most vitally interested:
	“This is the great exposition year in Hol-
land. Every city is in gala dress and to this
festive circumstance is added the very ro-
mantic occasion of opening the Palace of
Peace, where the supernational court of jus-
tice will soon reign. Stead proclaimed The
Hague the ‘capital of the world,’ and in this
role it will receive the twentieth universal
peace congress, every municipality joining,
and his royal highness, Prince Henry, tak-
ing the protectorate. This is the first time
a royal personage has done such a thing,
and it commands the respect of the Euro-
pean leaders, who a decade before could
only scoff at peace congresses. The pro-
gram lasts from August 18-23.
	“Holland is the proudest and most demo-
cratic gem that crests the North sea. It is
the one international state which has given
life to every progressive act of history which
has chosen her flowery canaled mainland as
a starting point—including the Pilgrim
Fathers. Little Holland has dared play the
biggest roles in history. The internationalist
feels at home there, and pacifists love it as
their fatherland. Several hundred Nether-
landers are on the committees and the twen-
tieth peace congress is looked upon as a na-
tional festival.
	“The thinkers of every country look with
amazement upon governments that expect
to settle their diplomatic and commercial
questions by chopping up innocent men with
machinery. The present military octopus
cannot be fed any other way, but the resent-
ment of the masses will soon overwhelm
these governments, and demand that public
disputes be settled with law and justice.
After all the carnage, when the ‘leave-
overs’ of the battle must flee from their
homes to escape cholera, the diplomats sit
at a distance and decide over the wires
‘what is what’ and ‘whose is whose.’
	“The twentieth peace congress will espe-
cially urge the questions of ‘A Code of In-
ternational Law,’ ‘International Police,’
‘Commercial Rivalry and International Re-
lations.’ ‘The Limitation,’ and ‘Gradual
Proportional Reduction of Armaments,’ and
in fact will offer the world through its great-
est students of the question, legal lines for
its solution. They are indeed world-patriots
who plan a substitute for human slaughter
as a means of settling national disputes.”


