[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | August | Issue: 9 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. | Author: Unknown]

RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder stake convened June 18, 1913, Presi-
dent Sarah P. Stohl, presiding.
	Present besides Relief Society stake offi-
cers. Presidents Oleen N. Stohl and W. G.
Horsley, and General President of the Re-
lief Society Emmeline B. Wells.
	Singing “For the strength of the hills,”
etc.
	Opening prayer by Sister Emelia D. Mad-
sen.
	Singing by Relief Society choir, “There
is sunshine in my soul.”
	Roll was called, showing 314 present.
	Minutes of previous forenoon conference
read and approved.
	President Sarah P. Stohl was pleased to
see so many sisters present this morning;
felt to welcome all, and felt we would have
a profitable time together today; was
pleased to welcome our worthy President,
Sister Wells, who had come all alone to
visit us. Said the 18th had been set apart as
a holiday, but on account of entertaining
the old folks we decided to hold our confer-
ence today. Prayed the blessings of the
Lord upon all.
	Sisters Sarah Fredahl and Sophia Jensen
each gave reports of the associations at Bear
River City and Mantua.
	“Kind words are sweet tones of-the
heart” was sung by the choir, with Sister
Hortense Nelsen singing the solo.
	Sister Sophy Valentine gave a talk on
the “Evolution of Woman,” giving the posi-
tion of woman in the home and society from
the early periods down.
	President Emmeline B. Wells said she
was very pleased and gratified in seeing
so many here was interested in all she had
heard, particularly in the talk on the “Evo-
lution of Woman;” thought it was a very
nteresting subject said the Relief Society
work was increasing very materially. She
was proud of Box Elder stake; spoke of
President Lorenzo Snow and his sister
Eliza R. Snow, and the work done in this


[Column 1]
stake; spoke on the outlines and the high
work they hoped to accomplish; said they
“desired to have weekly meetings held gen-
erally; spoke on and explained a summary
report they would expect at the October
conference on the work we were doing in
the stake; advised the sisters in looking after
their children and on promoting faith in
them; said We are a favored people. May
the Lord bless you all.
	President Sarah Stohl hoped all would
stay and participate in the social noon hour;
felt we had been inspired in our work in
holding our weekly meetings and in our
getting out report blanks; felt the Lord
would bless us with His spirit today; that
we would have a good social time together.
	Singing, “Sowing, daily sowing.”
	Prayer by Brother Oluf Jensen.
	2 p. m.—After opening exercises min-
utes of previous afternoon conference read
and approved.
	President Sarah Stohl was pleased with
the good attendance this afternoon; said we
would hear from some of the sisters, and
have a report for one month read.
	Sister Rose M. Wheatly gave a report of
Honeyville association.
	Sister Julia A. Richards read a report of
the work done in the stake for one month.
Kindergarten work was taken up. In-
troductory remarks were made by Sister
Lula B. Call, stake chairman of kindergar-
ten work; was thankful for this work as it
opened up an avenue for our minds and
thoughts to work upon; spoke on the lec-
tures and games, and the way the lessons
were to be handled in the associations.
	Sister Emeline P. Watkins combined the
two lessons, The Child as an Imitator, and
Social Development, and also gave briefly
a sketch of the Montessori Mother, and the
work in her school.
	Supplementary Kindergarten work by
Sister Emma Vance; treated in general the
work of the outlines as given in our weekly
meetings.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells said one would
seem certainly uplifted in what we had
heard this afternoon; spoke in regard to
nurses and their high price; said they were
going to have Relief Society nurse classes
again; spoke on genealogy work, and organ-
zing of classes; also on obedience; related
ncidents of her own conversion to the
Church, and her acquaintance with the
Prophet, and her feelings when in his pres-
ence; gave many of the qualifications he
possessed; bore a strong testimony to the
truth of this Gospel.
	Brother W. C. Horsley said we must
work more unitedly together to make a bet-
ter community; spoke on company that
some of our young girls keep; read a short
piece on unity.
	President Oleen N. Stohl said there has
been a sweet influence here all day; had been
nterested in the singing; said we were born
spirits of our heavenly parents and we had
to go through experiences to become per-
fect; spoke on the power of the evil one, and
how he works to try to overpower; said the
struggle was on, and it was with us to try
to do our part and it was worthy of our best
efforts to press on. May the Lord bless us
all in this great work.
	President Sarah Stohl said she would like
to tell the sisters that Sister Wells’ age was
85 years, and her dress was home made silk;

[Column 2]
was well pleased with the social hour, and
hoped to have more attend our meetings;
said a few words on the free will offering
to help defray the General Board expenses;
made other closing remarks.
	Sister Wells wished to express her feel-
ing s for her kind reception, and the beau-
tiful things she had heard, and for every-
thing said and done. During the confer-
ence beautiful music was rendered.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
	Singing, “Oh, awake my slumbering min-
strel.”
	Benediction by Emmeline B. Wells.
				SARAH E. STOHL, Pres.
