[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | August | Issue: 9 | Title: AUNT ESTHER’S SWEETHEART. | Author: Unknown]

AUNT ESTHER’S SWEETHEART.
“Auntie,” said a beautiful young girl in an
absent-minded sort of way, turning half
round on the piano stool, and without rais-
ing her eyes from the floor, “I’m tired of
this sort of thing I want a change. Can’t we
go somewhere, or give a party? Can’t you
suggest some amusement to pass away the
time? Why, I’ve not even had a letter for
days, and that stupid brother of mine is
having a jolly time of it at Harvard, while
I’m here at home, day after day going
through the same dull routine. Oh, I’m
weary I’d even like to get married, if I
could have an offer that suited me!”
	“Is that all, Alice? Have you no other
complaints to make?” said her self-pos-
sessed aunt in reply. The girl looked a little
crest fallen, and without a word turned
round and went on with her practicing. Her
aunt, who was a wise and thoughtful wo-
man, continued her sewing as if nothing
had been said. A long silence followed,
though the truth was Aunt Esther didn’t
know exactly what answer to make. It
was altogether new for her niece to burst
forth so excitedly and it took the quaint
little lady by surprise.
	Alice sat playing a while longer, then
came forward towards the fire, which 
was burning brightly, and seating herself com-
fortably in a low rocker in the corner, be-
gan to stir the coals with a poker—a cus- 
tom many people have when perplexed. The
equanimity of her aunt was too much for
her she wanted her to speak, say she had
been rude, then she would have apologized
but to see her sit there so complacently,
stitching away, taking no notice of her vexa-
tion was unbearable to one so impulsive.
Finally she burst out again:
	“Auntie, we are always going on in this
humdrum way, for all the world like two
old maids? You are not old if you are a
widow, and I,—well, I’m just twenty-two,
and have never yet had a real beau I want
some attention, some companionship.”
	“My dear,” said her aunt, “how long is it
since we came home from the sea shore,
“where you danced, and waltzed, and sang
and took in all the gaieties of the season,
until you were tired, and wanted to come
home to the Wren’s Nest? Isn’t that so?”

[Column 2]
	“Yes auntie, I did want to come home,
thanks to your judicious training, because
there was so much deception and hypocrisy-
there, and such ‘shilly shally’ girls and un-
principled young men and old ones too for
that matter, and mercenary, managing mam-
mas, and all that. It was simply disgusting
to sensible people.”
	“And that was society, Alice, the best
society, so we were informed, and certainly,
if wealth and extravagance are the stand-
ards by which the ‘best society’ is estimated
it must have been.”
	“Yes, auntie, they were rich I suppose,
and they were proud and arrogant but they
were also ill-bred, some of them at least.
Oh, I learned some lessons in the ways of
the world that I shall never forget and I
did not hesitate to tell one young lady, who
carried on a flirtation under my very eyes,
what my mother would have thought of her
conduct, and she begged me to keep the
matter a secret. But a truce to all this
we’ve talked of these things before. I am
positively pining for some one to talk to. I
know you’re good company, and always
amiable, but there is no variety in our way
of living. We’ve got lots of relatives, let’s
go and visit some of them, while Harry’s in
college. When he comes home everything
will be different. He can take us out, and
we shall have more society it won’t be near
so lonely here then he’s always so lovely.”
	“Alice, about the country cousins. Do
you remember where we used to visit when
you and they were children ?”
	“Yes, I recollect some of those quaint old
places up among the New England hills
they’re very nice in summer time, but how
about winter—how would it be then?”
	“There’s skating and sleigh-riding, and
winter pastimes of course. Yet you must
choose, it is for your pleasure we shall go.”
	“Aunt Esther, are there any young peo-
ple at these places you think of—would
it be interesting in that way?”
	“In what way, Alice?”
	“Why, don’t you understand? Would
there be any love-making, or any chance
of getting a good husband?”
	“Alice, you astonish me. Yet just now,
you were deprecating the ways of those
girls at the sea-shore, and now you are talk-
ing in much the same strain.”
	“But I’m in earnest I am going to mar-
ry some great, big-hearted, honest, young
fellow, that has never been in society, such
as I had a glimpse of last season and that
reminds me, auntie, that you have had a
kind of romance in your life. I’ve heard
Polly say so and you never say a word
about it, nor your married life either, though
for that matter I never asked you—never
thought of it in fact until now. Will you
tell me the story? It must be interesting a
chapter out of your history.”
	Before Aunt Esther had time to reply
to all this rapid questioning a knock was
heard at the parlor door and in came Polly
with a handful of letters, and in the excite-
ment Alice forgot what she had said to her

[Column 3]
dear little auntie, as she called her, and be-
gan examining the postmark, a habit with
women, it is said.
	Here’s such a queer stamp; I do won-
der where this letter’s from; some rich old
uncle, I hope, asking us to come for the 
holidays,” exclaimed Alice.
	Then she took up the one she knew to
be from her brother, and hurriedly broke
the seal. While she sat reading it and tap
ping her dainty feet on the carpet, every
now and then, a way she had when over-
joyed, Aunt Esther was busy perusing a
letter that looked even more foreign than the
one Alice had laid down.
	In the midst of the reading, a carriage
drove up, and visitors were announced—
Mrs. and Mr. Elmore and their two daugh-
ters and the letters were put aside
	The two ladies busied themselves enter-
taining their guests during the remainder of
the afternoon. The Elmores were neigh-
bors of theirs, and very nice people indeed.
	The girls were near Alice’s age and were
both bright and clever. The afternoon sped
swiftly away, and Alice had actually for-
gotten the letters, so absorbed was she with
the conversation of their visitors. Aunt
Esther urged their guests to stay and dine
with them, waiving ceremony and they fin-
ally consented. So that it was nine o’clock
or there abouts before they were alone again.
The evening had been a pleasant one and
Alice was in the best of spirits, having
thoroughly enjoyed the society of these
neighbors, who had so much to say that was
worth listening to. One of the young ladies
was a fine singer and was much admired
by Harry, who was passionately fond of
music, as indeed were Aunt Esther and Al-
ce. Miss Elmore had been singing, dur-
ing the evening one of Aunt Esther’s old
favorites that had carried her back in mem-
ory to her girlhood days, and these words
of the song, kept ringing in her ears:

“Oh no, we never mention him, his name is never
	heard,
My lips are now forbid to speak that once fa-
	miliar word.”

	Aunt Esther, so calm and self-contented
to all appearance, would have given almost
anything to have been alone for a few
minutes that she might weep to relieve her
pent-up feelings but even when the guests
had departed, Alice was still there, and she
must not give way.
	The reading of the letters was resumed,
and for a while silence reigned. What a
pretty picture the two ladies made in that
elegant room—Alice was tall and slender in
figure, a perfect blonde in complexion, and
this evening she wore a dress of soft, pale
blue merino, trimmed with dainty lace and
as she sat reading, one might have gazed
in admiration “and turned and come again
to take his fill,” of her rare beauty. Every
now and then she spoke to auntie and her
countenance brightened, as she repeated
some of Harry’s witty and shrewd com-
ments upon his college life. Aunt Esther


[Column 1]
was one of those peculiar types of women
so difficult to describe that we term them
“a perfect study”; small in figure, dark, al-
most olive complexion, purplish or blue
hair, large grey eyes. Many people
considered her plain, but she was at-
tractive, and possessed that indescri-
bable charm, which for want of a
better term we call magnetic. This eve-
ning she wore a grey dress, of some soft
material, trimmed with scarlet velvet; and
bending over her letters she looked as much
a picture, as the young girl who sat op-
posite. Alice chanced to notice it and as-
tonished her by saying; “Aunt Esther, you
look so charming tonight, your very soul
seems to be looking forth out of your eyes.
I wish you had a sweetheart, it’s such a
lonely life to live; how long since Uncle
Herbert died?”
	“Ten years and over,” replied the little
woman, without lifting her eyes. Sometimes
her voice sounded strangely to Alice, and
as she looked she saw tears fall upon the
letter her aunt had been reading, but seemed
to have dropped from her hand. Alice
knew her aunt was undemonstrative, and
she would not inquire what made her sad,
but thought it was her ill-timed allusion to
her uncle’s death. Little she knew the chord
she had touched, that made such discord
in the heart of this staid and demure little
woman.
	The letters were finished and both ladies
drew nearer to the fire and resumed con-
versation, as all do who love each other, just
before separation for the night.
	“Alice, my dear, was your unknown let-
ter from some rich uncle—an invitation for
the holidays?”
	“No aunt, it was from old Mr. Brown,
whom we met at the seaside last summer,
and funniest of all (for you remember I
snubbed him) it contained an offer of mar-
riage, the first one I ever had. Audacious
fellow, he tells me he loves me, and that he
is worth half a million, all in one paragraph.
I wouldn’t marry him if he were worth
three millions; he’s a scoundrel, been in
society thirty years or more, and divorced
his wife. Marry old Brown? I’d rather be
an old maid and stay with you all my days,
auntie. You’ll never marry again, I don’t
suppose, though you’re much more fascinat-
ing than most young girls, and know a great
deal more. Is that the reason they call
widows dangerous, I wonder? I’ve often
heard the expression. I couldn’t imagine
why it was used, for you are the only young
widow I have ever really been acquainted
with, and I’m sure you are the most in-
offensive and reserved, and the very best
little auntie in all the world.” As she fin-
shed her remark she rose and threw her
arms around Aunt Esther’s neck, and de-
luged her with kisses.
	When Polly came in to inquire what or-
ders her mistress had to give, before retir-
ing, Mrs. Danforth replied, “Nothing, to-
night, but we are going away in a day or
two, so all our plans will be changed and
we can dispense with some of the help for
the present. Polly, would you like to go
anywhere on a visit?”
	“No, Mrs. Danforth, I will stay and take
care of the house while you’re absent, and
Ben, of course you’ll retain him for outside
work. We two can do very well, and it will
save some expense.”
	“All right, Polly, it’s very kind of you to

[Column 2]
be so careful on my account; then I think
we shall pack up tomorrow, and go away
the next morning. Good-night Polly.”
	“Alice,” said her aunt when they were
alone again, “I think I shall go to my sis-
ter’s in M—. Do you remember the fa-
mous, rambling, old country house with the
great wide porches? It was called ‘The
Meadows.’”
	“You mean Aunt Jane’s? I remember
it a little; we used to play under the great
elm trees. Wasn’t there a lot of children?”
	“Seven, I believe, and they are none of
them married: You will not be lonely with
all those young people; at any rate we’ll try
it; I have not been there for many years,
never since my widowhood;” and Aunt
Esther paused for a moment, the word
seemed to stick in her throat.
	“It’s a long way off, and we need not
wait to send them word. I am sure of a
welcome, for your Uncle William is one
of the most hospitable men I have ever
known.”
	“Then, auntie, that’s settled, and I want
you to tell me that romantic story of your
own life, Polly knows something about it,
so of course, there is a story.”
	“What nonsense has Polly been filling
your foolish little head with? Some ser-
vant’s gossip I suppose?”
	“Oh, no, Aunt Esther, this is quite dif-
ferent, and if you don’t promise to tell me
I shall ask Polly before we go to Aunt
Jane’s, because one day she said to me long
ago: ‘Alice, you’re a lovely girl, but not so
attractive as your Aunt Esther was; she has
a history;’ and I wonder, auntie. that I never
have teased you to tell me the story.”
	“Do you see?” said her aunt, pointing
to the clock on the mantel “it is after mid-
night, and we shall have a great deal to do
tomorrow. You really must go to bed now,
and forget all this foolishness about your
auntie. It is quite enough for you to know
me as I am now and to judge me upon
my real merits, and not to listen to Polly’s
insinuations. She’s over fond of me, and
her imagination carries her away some-
times.”
	Alice was sleepy, and therefore bade her
aunt good-night willingly; and Esther Dan-
forth sat there alone brooding over the past
that had been so vividly recalled to her
mind that day. It seemed as though that
letter had brought the past with it, not only
to Esther herself, but Polly and Alice
seemed full of the same reminiscences. She
would not acknowledge to herself that she
had been persuaded to marry for money,
though the world said so, the world in which
she revolved; and tonight as she sat think-
ing she drew the letter from her pocket, the
letter that had excited Polly’s curiosity,
and which seemed to have changed her plans
suddenly.
	“Shall I burn it?” she said to herself. “I
scarcely dare keep it, I am sure Polly recog-
nized the writing,” and as she soliloquised
thus she opened the letter and was again
perusing its contents.
	Looking over her shoulder we might
easily read it too, for she held it wide open,
and gazed as if entranced. It ran thus:
“My Precious Darling:
	“I shall sail for America in a few days;
have made definite arrangements; shall
go by way of London to transact some busi-
ness there, and then for Boston. In a

[Column 3]
few hours after arriving, I shall come to
you, and learn my fate. I can no longer
endure this dreadful suspense. It is years
since I wrote you that first impassioned
letter, after I learned that you were free—
free from that terrible bondage of the heart.
You answered me as though you were an
icicle, or that your heart was frozen; but I
know you better; you are mine; and your
own heart will bear you witness when you
read these burning words. You cannot for-
get if you would, the glorious past, the rec-
ollection of which has hung over me, during
all these years of banishment, like a rain-
bow of promise. I have still the pledge
of your devotion, given me on that May
morning, when we plighted our troth under
the apple boughs and I shall never part
with it. The last time I wrote you an-
swered me in doubt—it gave me some en-
couragement, because you said, ‘Wait, when
the children I have charge of are not de-
pendent upon me for a home, I may con-
sider your proposal.’ Must duty to the
children of your dead brother forever debar
you from fulfilling the pledge of your love
to the living—to one who has waited for
you all these years—that he might take you
to his heart and shelter you there forever
and ever? Esther, I am coming, and from
your own sweet lips, I must hear the words
that shall decide my fate, my further life.
Disguise your true self as you may to others,
you cannot deceive me, by my own strength
of affection, I measure yours, I will ask
you to answer me here, it would be too
long to wait should you say, yes, and so—
farewell until we shall meet, sweetheart,
dearest.
		“Your old sweetheart,
				“SIDNEY MANNING.”
	Poor Aunt Esther, she read the letter
again and again, and her tears poured hot
and fast. She sobbed as if her heart would
break.
	“What shall I say to him when he comes?
How can I meet him again after all these
years? I dare not confess my love, that
has outlived everything. I will not see
him, I will go away; I shall not be able
to withstand his pleadings!”
	Nothwithstanding her mental resolve,
she folded up the letter that had caused all
this tumult of feeling and put it in her bos-
om, and as she passed out of the room and
ascended the stairway, she moaned and
every now and then she leaned her head
upon the balustrade and would have fal-
len but for its support. Little sleep for her
that night while Alice, who was wholly
heart-pure, slept the sweet sleep of youth
and innocence. How true the poet’s words:
Tired nature’s sweet restorer, balmy sleep, he like
	the world,
His ready visit pays, where fortune smiles; the
	wretched he forsakes,
Swift on his downy pinions, flies from grief
And lights on lids unsullied with a tear.”
	The household were early astir the next
morning, for Polly, the faithful friend, had
been almost as wakeful as her mistress, and
the day was a busy one with preparations
for the journey and the necessary change.
The trunks were packed and strapped, and
traveling bags made ready, and Esther Dan-
forth, like one in a dream, went from room
to room, to see that all was safe.
	“This was his house,” she muttered un-
der her breath, my husband’s,” and a cold


[Column 1]
shiver ran through her veins. “I was al-
most persuaded to leave it once, but my
good angel stood by and saved me; and
Polly, dear, good girl, she helped me to bear
it all. I came here a bride from the church
door, with showers of congratulations.
What a wretched creature I was; with my
beating heart and my broken vows, and
Sidney—I did not even dare to think what
would become of him. I was young then,
so very young to be an old man’s bride;
and he knew I did not love him, but he was
ever kind, too kind, and he left all his wealth
to me—only I must not marry Sidney Man-
ning—there it is, in his will, and it was read
that day, when all the family were there.
What a reproach to me, and how they all
stared, until I fainted; I must not marry
Sidney Manning. No, though my heart
should break; not because of the money—
what do I care for the money? Yet it has
been a blessing to my brother’s children,
left orphaned and destitute,”—and Esther
Danforth sank upon her knees, there alone
in the pale moonlight, beseeching heaven
to guide her footsteps. And her prayer
was answered.
	The journey occupied two days and
nights for those were not the times of steam
and rapid transit. At the close of the sec-
ond day, they reached their destination. It
was a bright, clear, moonlight night, and the
great wide-spreading elms stretched out
their branches, as if to welcome and shelter
them. The greetings were affectionate, and
Alice was quite delighted with the reception
she received; it was so genuine and cor-
dial. The travelers were tired and glad to
go rather early to bed, especially as they
were aware that, as they were in the coun-
try, they would be expected to rise early.
	Time passed quickly with Alice; there
was so much that was new and pleasant,
and three young men, her cousins, vied
with each other in planning fresh surprises
for her amusement.
	Aunt Esther was visiting in a quiet way
with her sister, from whom she had been so
long separated; there were many things
to tell each other, and it was nearing Christ-
mas, and a grand party was to be given in
honor of Mrs. Danforth and her niece.
	Aunt Jane, as Mrs. Wetherell was called
was half sister only to Aunt Esther and Al-
ice’s father, and was some years older. She
was a very estimable woman, and religious
in her nature; had studied the Bible and 
sought to comprehend its meaning. Of late
a new light had shown across her pathway,
and she had been so impressed with the
divine source from which it came, that she
was making a careful and prayerful ex-
amination of the teachings she had received,
from the messengers who came to her with
glad tidings. Her husband was investigat-
ing the doctrine too and ere long they un-
folded to Aunt Esther the view they enter-
tained. Contrary to their expectation, she
seemed to grasp these new truths more
quickly than they had done, and it was a
confirmation to them, that the doctrine was
from heaven.
	Aunt Esther had gone into the country
place with a broken heart, asking help from
one above, and so completely humble was
she, that she was ready to receive heavenly
truths; in fact, she scarcely needed preach-
ing to, her mind was so clear on the sub-
ject presented to her by her sister and her
husband.

[Column 2]
	The young men were most favorably im-
pressed with the new doctrines, and had
talked to Alice about the everlasting Gos-
pel, but none of them as yet had been bap-
tized. They were waiting for some El-
ders, who were shortly to pay them a visit
and preach to the people in that vicinity.
The “Mormon” Elders soon came to
M—, and Mr. Wetherell, who was a man
of considerable influence, tried to get a hall
or meetinghouse for them to preach in; but
he met with many obstacles in his efforts
that he had not previously anticipated; jeal-
ousy and tradition were rife in the hearts
of those who were opposed, and the good
man at last decided that the meetings should
be at his own place, “The Meadows.” The
house was large and roomy and he had ex-
pected to entertain as his guests, those who
would come to preach and baptize. All
the people in the neighborhood were cordial-
ly invited, and many came to the meetings,
and some who were converts were baptized
and confirmed, after two days meetings had
been held.
	Among those who were baptized were,
Mr. and Mrs. Wetherell, Mrs. Danforth and
Alice Maynard and the three sons and four
daughters of the host and hostess of “The
Meadows.” There were eight others bap-
tized and many more believing.
	Among the latter was a young man whom
Miss Alice greatly admired, and he had al-
ready shown her some marked attention,
and her resolve to marry some honest big-
hearted fellow was in a fair way of fulfill-
ment. He was of fine figure, large and well-
proportioned, and his education had not
been neglected even though he was a farm-
er’s son, and had lived among the New
England hills. He rather astonished Miss
Alice one day by telling her he had never
been in Boston; but she recovered herself
quickly and replied, she was glad of it; not
but that she was proud of Boston, too, but
somehow she liked him better as he was;
better than she ever thought she could like
any of the young men she had met at the
capital.
