EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager. .' Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
 SELF-PITY. Along the difficult life-climb to health and peace A Deadly are strewn all sorts of thorns and thistles, briars Thorn. and noxious weeds. Into the delicate flesh of most sensitive people there sticks and stings the thorn of self-pity. ? When its twin briar self-justification also ? obtrudes its thorny clutch into the human climber, the path becomes at once too steep, the load too heavy, and down the wretch falls by the roadside to weep and groan in gasping breaths. The battle is lost, the fight is over. Nothing is so offensive to sane and well-balanced Extract climbers, who have struggled part way upward, the Poison, as the moans and plaints of these dreary failures. It may be one's wife ? it is usually a woman, unless it's an artist ? who thus indulges in the vicious luxury of self-pity. These emotions of ours are splendid servants, but make bitter masters. When it's a mother who thus lingers to weep over herself, the children first pity, then flee away. If one possesses ever so charming a friend who is still addicted to this most selfish and unnecessarily cruel pastime, one quietly avoids conversation and proximity. EDITORIAL. 525 Big doses of reason and self-scolding will help The greatly. Argue the thing out with yourself on Antidote. rational lines. Refuse to be sad or sorry and ? say to yourself over and over till you get control of the nasty emotion, "I will not pity myself." "Resist evil and it will flee from you." Be determined to seek the good and the benefit of others ?be unselfish. No really unselfish person ever pities himself. Self-pity is self-respect gone to seed. Sympathize with everybody else, except yourself. Nature will see to it that you love yourself, your way and your will, quite enough. You need to counter-balance this tendency with all your power. Self-pity puts blinders and hobbles on you, ties Cultivate your hands and crosses your feet, and you will a Sense never get anywhere with so painful a handicap. of Humor. See the funny side of life. Laugh at yourself. Make light of ordinary troubles. Get your balance by insisting to yourself that you are your own worst enemy as well as your own best friend. Crying makes your ? nose red complaining makes your spirit unlovely. You are all right? sick or well, living or dead, poor or rich. Say so. Don't allow morbid self-pity to canker your spirit. Jolly yourself out of the tears and recall your favorite joke when someone neglects you or circumstances press down on your self-love. Be a sport. Laugh instead of crying. If you are ill, self-pity will double your pain and treble your affliction. Forget it. Think brightly, speak cheerfully, and help disease to flee from you. "Pity the poor beggar" ?but there are no beggars in this glorious Relief Society, and none of us need pity ourselves. NOTE. We are grateful for the response made to our call for back numbers of the Magazine, but we do not wish for any numbers but the January, February, and March numbers of this current year. Magazine Managers. ? Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in October. WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. JUDITH. Strictly speaking, Judith is not one of the "women of the Bible." She comes in between the period of the Old Testament days and those of the New Testament. But she is well worth considering in this series, not only because she was one of the most remarkable of Hebrew women, but also because she stands for a type of faith and courage in times of danger for the Chosen People. She was a native of Bethulia, and lived about a hundred twenty-five years before Christ. The situation which it is necessary to keep in mind in order to understand this stirring narrative is this: The king of Assyria sent ambassadors to the Jews and their neighbors, ordering them to join their forces with his, so that he might conquer the world. But they sent away his ambassadors in disgrace. The king threatened vengeance. After a war of his own he sent up against the Hebrew people his general, Holofernes, with a great army to subdue them. The Jews fell from boasting to fear at his approach. Moreover, they fasted and prayed that God would not suffer them to be overcome by their enemies. Judith, however, did more than fasting and praying, although she did these she applied the quite modern doctrine, that "God helps those that first help themselves." Bethulia was besieged. The condition there became very serious, because there was a lack of water in the town. Rising from her knees, one day, doffing her widow's weeds, and decking herself in the most bewitching costume, with jewels ? and other ornaments for she was rich as well as very beautiful she went forth out of the gates of the city with her maid and walked toward the tents of the Assyrians. She had held a consultation with the leaders of her people, in which she had chided them not only for their unwisdom in conducting the work of fortification, but also for their lack of faith in the living God. And she had prayed, moreover, that God would grant her victory in what she was about to do for her people. And the two approached the camp of the enemy. GUIDE LESSONS. 527 The first watch met her. "Who are you?" they demanded. With her mouth full of cunning and deceit, she told them, "I am a Hebrew woman. I have fled from my people, and am coming to the king's army to show how the hill country may be taken without loss." The men, captivated by her beauty, took her to the camps, assuring her that the general would be glad to see her. There was great wonderment when she appeared, not only at her looks but at her daring as well. At the request of the general she was taken before his tent. Holofernes "rested upon his bed under a canopy woven of purple and gold and emeralds and precious stones." He came out with "silver lamps going before him." With a needlessness of which he was not aware, he besought her not to be afraid. "Tell me," he urged, "wherefore thou art fled from thine own people and art come to me?" She related, with truth enough, what had ? befallen her people their hunger and thirst and partakings of "the forbidden thing." But she added, ambiguously, "God hath sent me to thee to work things whereat all the earth shall be astonished." And she asked the privilege of remaining in the ? camp for a time which, of course, the voluptuous Holofernes was very glad to grant. He, too, was obviously infatuated with the Jewish widow. Also he affected to think that God had sent her to him. Now, both Judith and Holofernes had designs upon each other, though, it is needless to state, of a wholly different nature. He invited her to eat with him. But she refused, making the excuse that it was not proper for her to eat other than the food permitted in the law. Then he affected to be anxious that she had not provided enough. She assured him, however, with double meaning again, that "thine handmaid shall not spend those things that I have, before the Lord work by mine hand the things that he hath determined." She very craftily obtained permission of him to allow her to pass without the camp to pray. Holofernes arranged a great feast for only himself and her, dismissing all the servants early so that he might be with her alone. Pleased with his apparent success, he drank more wine, the author tells us, "than he had drunk at any time in one day since he was born." But the wary Judith drank nothing. When he was securely locked in his drunken slumber, she went to his bed, lifted the curtain, breathed a prayer to her God that He would strengthen her arm, and cut off his head with two strokes. This ghastly object she handed to her maid, with directions to put it into the bag which they had brought with them, and the two set out for Bethulia. Entering the gates, she showed the leaders her trophy. "The Lord! hath smitten him," she exclaimed, "by the hand of a woman Consternation fell upon the Assyrians when they discovered what had been done, and crying and rending their clothes, they 
 fled at the approach of the hosts of the Hebrews. "And there was none, we are assured by the historian, "that made the children of Israel any more afraid in the days of Judith, nor a long time after her death." It is interesting to compare and contrast the character of Esther and Judith. Both women were undeniably beautiful. A plain-looking woman, whatever the inference, could not, in the one case, have won the queenship nor, in the other case, bewitched the unsophisticated Holofernes. Moreover, both used their charms, according to the notions of the times, in the service of religion. Both, too, encompassed the death of a powerful enemy of Israel, the one through guile and the other through her influence with the king, her husband. Besides, Esther and Judith were devout, prayerful religionists. But Esther impresses us as a woman who needed guidance, direction, something or somebody to lean upon. She has little or no initiative. She is more or less timid and hesitating. Judith, on the other hand, although perfectly womanly, is self-reliant, courageous, daring, capable of decisive action in high moments. And yet she is always the woman, and a wonderful woman to smite the mind as well as the eye. QUESTIONS. 1. Relate the story of Judith. 2. Why should Judith be known today? 3. Compare Esther and Judith in as many respects as you can. 4. Which would you rather be, if you could be either? Why? 5. Which do you think a man would admire the more? Why? 6. In what respects have our standards undergone a change since the days of Judith? 7. In what respects could we profit today from the character of Judith? Explain. LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in October. LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in October. GENEALOGY. TRIBAL SURNAMES, SIRE NAMES. As soon as men join themselves to women in family relation and their children begin to multiply, they are naturally inclined to gather in groups or tribes or clans. Anciently the Hebrews GUIDE LESSONS. 529 were jealous of their tribal descent and rights. Among the Hebrews the line of demarkation between the tribes was deep and well marked, and as they became a nation and settled in cities, social classification was very marked. A sire-name is a surname derived from the personal name of the father. "Much has been written upon the surname, a comparatively modern invention. There is much that is extremely curious and suggestive in the rise and signification of the appellations of men and women, their universal or partial popularity, the alterations by which they have been adapted to different languages, their familiar abbreviations, the patronymics formed from them, and the places or articles called from them. In fact, we shall find the history, the religion, and the character of a nation stamped upon the individuals in the names which they bear. "The original proper names of men and women arose "First, from some circumstance connected with the birth, such as Esau, hairy Jacob, taken by the heel Agrippa, born ; with the feet foremost. "Secondly, from the complexion, e. g., Edom, red; Flavius and Fulvius, yellow; Don, brown; Ruadh, red; Boidh, yellow; Planche, fair. "Thirdly, from the qualities desired for the child, such as David, beloved the Persian Aspamitas and Greek Philippos, both; lovers of horses the Celtic Eochaidh, a horseman the Teutonic; ; Eadgifu, happy gift the Slavonic Przemyszl, the thoughtful. ; "Fourthly, from an animal, Deborah, the bee; Jonah, Columbia, Golubica, the dove; Zeeb, Lycos, Lupus, Wolf, Vuk, all signifying that strangely popular wild beast the wolf. "Fifthly, from a jewel, Mote Mahal, in Arabic, pearl of the harem; Margaret, a pearl in Greek; Stein, a stone or jewel in Teutonic." Now a name is a symbol or a collection of sounds which symbolizes to us ourselves, and our friends. My name is Susan yours is Mary our friend is named Miriam. It is not enough, ; however, that we have the one symbol-name attached to us, nor did it suffice for the ancient people except for one peculiar custom and that custom was to name the child for some peculiarity of look, some accident of birth or other circumstance which might mark the beginning of the child's life. In the dawn of history, therefore, each child was given a separate name, different from all others and the child needed no surname. In later centuries that would not do for people who became tired of making names and began to name their children after a parent or ancestor. Confusion resulted at once, for two or more Susans in the family made it impossible for any one of them to distinguish which was wanted when called. And so, after a few centuries the tribes were called by the tribal name, which then became a surname. 
 Ben-Hur is Ben of the tribe of Hur. At first he would be called Ben the son of Hur, Joshua the son of Nun, Caleb the son of Jephunneh, David the son of Jesse, Isaiah the son of Amos. Among the Romans the custom obtained of having three names. that is the personal name, then came the family and then the tribal name. The daughters of the tribe bore the tribal name feminized. For instance, there were Publius Cornelius, Scipio Africanus Caius. Julius Caesar the Great, Marcus Tullius Cicero was called Cicero politically and Tullius in his family. Among the Norsemen, Angles and Saxons the custom of naming sons for fathers was soon crystallized after the Norman conquest; and then came Jameson, Thompson, Dickson, Wilson. These surnames are all found in England, and were descended from Danish forebears. The Welsh carried the Christian name of the parent down interminably, separated by an Ap or "son of" as: ? ? ? "Jenkin-ap Griffith-ap Robin-ap William-ap Rees-ap ? Evan." The "Ap" of the Welshman became "Mack" to the Scotchman and was simply "O" in Ireland. It was Von in Germany. All of these with the Scandinavian "Sen" means simply "the son of," or "belonging to the tribe of." It must here be stated that not all of any one tribe was descended necessarily from a common ancestor, for men married into the tribe sometimes and assumed the tribal name, throwing aside their own. Servants rose to dignity and power and assumed the tribal name by adoption. Captives taken in war were adopted into the tribe. It often happened that only half perhaps of any one tribe were entitled by blood inheritance to the name. MacAllister means of the tribe of Allister. The MacAllister was always the Patriarch of the tribe or clan. MacEwan is the tribe of Ewan. (Ewan is John in the Scotch dialect.) O'Connell is of the tribe of Connell. Ap-Howell is the son of Howell. Von Weber is the son of Weber. Jensen is the son of Jens. The sire-name was the commonest form of original surnames known in ancient history. QUESTIONS. Why do men gather in groups and clans? What can you tell about ancient Hebrew genealogy? Read all of chapter 5, Genesis. Relate the substance of the Book of Numbers. What is a personal name? What is a surname? What is a sire-name? What is the meaning of ap, Mac, O', Von, Sen? How did your surname originate? And yours? And yours? GUIDE LESSONS. 531 Note. The 23rd of September is the annual Genealogical day throughout the Church. We would like all Relief Society Genealogical committees and workers to make a special feature of this day, uniting where invited to do so, with the Utah Genealogical Society representatives in a general observance of the Sunday nearest that day. ART. OCTOBER DAYS. Make a study of October foliage, the scarlet maple, crimson oak, yellow chestnut, etc., as compared to the alder bushes, the fir and pine. If there is a canyon available, be sure to take an October walk. Wear stout shoes and warm wraps, and make an Alpine staff to help you over the rough places. Take some good picnic to satisfy canyon hunger. A campfire is, of course, necessary to complete an October mountain climb provide your-; self with frying pan and kettles, in which to prepare hot, fried potatoes, hot milk, or soup of some kind. By four o'clock in the afternoon, the canyon will be cold, so you should be well prepared with wraps. If you can make the trip last into the night, and come home by moonlight, you will surely be inspired with Nature's loveliness. "THE LAST RUN UP THE CANYON." Without, the air is chilly, but we are toasting warm as we draw around the board to enjoy our supper, smoking hot. We are alert to the first appearance of signs of snow. If the fleecy clouds collect, and there is a sudden rise in temperature, we know of rapidly approaching snow, and soon hie ourselves back to town, fearing to be snowed in. But for a last look, after our delicious supper, we take a run upon the side hill that commands the finest view of the whole canyon. The lovely moonlight is over all, lending an air of enchantment and mystery to the whole scene. The fleecy clouds rapidly gather, and we see in our mind's eye the white snow-blanket that will soon wrap all the landscape. The brilliant leaves are mostly fallen. The air has lost its crispness, and a delicious feeling prevails. We quickly pack our traps, and ourselves, into the auto, with eyes only for all that can be seen in our flying trip. We give our fancy wing, for this is truly an opportunity for fancy's finest play. 
 QUESTIONS. a. Describe the oak in its gayest dress. b. Describe the maple in its most brilliant colors. c. Describe the mountain mahogany. d. Describe the elderberry, and the alder. Note: If none of these are to be found, substitute the natural foliage of the mountains where you live. e. Describe the October sunset. Compare it with the September sunset. f. Describe the moonlight in October. Compare it with the moonlight when the foliage is mainly green. Note The green: coloring is scarcely lost by moonlight. Green is so persistent by all manner of light. g. Which is darker by moonlight in October, the sky or mountains? Describe the difference between the side of the canyon in the moonlight and the one in shadow. h. Note if any snow has fallen on the mountains in October. i. Describe your October trip into the mountains. If the snow has not fallen early, we make a late trip into the mountains for a last glimpse and to see that the mountain cabin is securely fastened for winter. We close up the doors and windows always open in summer, and build a big fire in the one room that can be closed from the out of doors. We have brought oysters to fry, rolls to toast, and milk and chocolate. ARCHITECTURE. WAR PERIOD, AND THE MODERN MOVEMENT, EXAMPLES OF RECENT ARCHITECTURE. a. Tell of the waning of the artistic influences in American architecture. b. Describe the Capitol Building at Albany. (Resembles the Salt Lake City and County Building.) c. Tell one fundamental error in building and planning. d. Describe St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City. e. Describe Trinity Church and Grace Church, in New York City. f. What can you say of the Modern Movement? How was American architecture influenced? g. What influence had Ecole des Beaux Arts on our architecture? h. Describe Trinity Church, Boston. What striking contrasts did Richardson use? GUIDE LESSONS. 533 i. What did the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, 1876, do for us? (Utah students went to Paris on account of its art.) j. What is the modern movement? k. Describe the Auditorium Theatre, Chicago. l. Madison Square Gardens and the Casino Theatre at New York City. m. Describe the Boston Public Library. (Interior much like the U. of U.) n. Describe the Congressional Library at Washington. o. Describe the Law Library of Columbia University. p. What architects are improving West Point Naval Academy? q. Who is working on the Naval Academy at Annapolis? r. Describe St. Thomas' Cathedral, New York City. What influences does it show? Why is it so wonderfully beautiful, and who are its architects? LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in October. CO-OPERATION AS A FACTOR FOR GOOD IN THE HOME AND COMMUNITY. DEFINITIONS OF CO-OPERATION. (a) "Letting go the lesser in order to keep the greater." (b) "A harmonious working together for the good of all." To these might be added another, "true co-operation is team work." HOME CO-OPERATION. If co-operation is team work, the home is the training school for team workers. Thus responsibility rests upon the heads of the home to co-operate with each other and to develop plans whereby the children, and any who contribute to the working operations of the home, may be co-operators. Thus and only thus will harmony in the home prevail for system and order are; the first laws of harmony and harmony is the law of the infinite. ? The Law of Co-operation. The home has two aspects, first the working home consisting of two parts, the man's business or profession, which may be mercantile, educational, or agricultural, and the woman's profession, that of keeping house, and though important, they are comparatively "the lesser;" second, the educational, ethical, character building home, in which men and women share the making, which in the ideal home grows side by side with the first and which is by far "the greater." Without close co-operation the efficiency of the working home is marred and the growth of the home beautiful is retarded. ? Team Work. On the farm even more than in other kinds of business the systematic conduct of home work is apt to be made second to the seasonable activities of the out of doors. Like "time and tide" harvests "wait for no man." But a plan made in the beginning, elastic to allow for give and take on both sides would help. The following illustrations will serve Mrs. Nellie Kidzie: Jones, that practical home scientist of Wisconsin, does her washing with the aid of two of the farm hands. In slack seasons the work is done at a regular time, but at harvest time, to quote her own words, "I use the men when I can get them. Sometimes it is in the cool of the evening. The speed with which the work is done, and the ease, more than makes up for the waiting, and the men are always willing." A young housewife, at the end of her first year on the farm, firmly but gently told her husband that she would not have the supper hour so late that the home evening was done away with. The supper should be ready at any hour he wished, up to six o'clock, and while the chores were being finished she would clear up, and they would spend the evening together. In the first instance, Mrs. Jones has won confidence by her experience and tact. In the second, the young wife was establishing a precedent. But new home-makers, please note the entire willingness to co-operate, in the first case, by the consideration for the man's business, and in the second, that the supper was to be ready on time. The Children. ? "But," says a mother of many, "that is all very well at first, but wait till the baby comes." Doctors and nurses all tell the same tale, under normal conditions regular habits of sleeping and eating, including in the last quality and quantity, make a healthy and therefore a good baby. And later, as the bit of plastic humanity develops tendencies and needs attention, and still later, the child begins to ask for work ?well, providing the health is good, the so-called naughty child is the one for whom nothing of definite interest is provided. They want to do something "really truly." "I want to help you make a cake," said a little girl. "Oh, run and make mud pies, darling, and when you get to be a big girl you shall help mother," was the reply. These are the chances for co-operative lessons, and a part of the educational home which will result in the helpful home later on. The successes of the great vocational movement GUIDE LESSONS. 535 in education rests, I am convinced, with the mothers of today, and must begin at home and with the first child. The home credit system, if taken seriously by the parents, is to be a means of solving the problem of how much a school girl should be asked to do in the home. ? The Boy's Part in Home Work. This needs a special paragraph for long established custom has made us divide the work into the divisions of "male and female," the first strong and glorified, fitted only to the superior agency to perform them and; the second, corresponding to the mentally inferior and weak physical organism of the woman. These ideas have been receiving rude shocks of late years. We have recognized that the woman is just as capable as man to take her part in the business and professional world. War-torn Europe is developing agriculturists among the women, in response to its dire necessity for food. The result of these things is to make the work of men and women co-operative but under normal conditions, divided in; such a manner as to allow her the greatest possibilities for ideal motherhood, and opportunities for contributing to the ethical and character-building home. In early years the boy should do his share in the home work, and as the man's side in boyhood calls him should still take his share in the tasks requiring greater physical strength. Not that the mother and sisters cannot perform them if needs be, but his knowledge of her higher functions will lead him to spare her any overdrain upon her strength. Parents should remember that they are the trainers of the future husbands of the race, and upon the lessons in co-operation, that harmonious working together for the good of all, in their home depends the happiness of future homes. The woman who brings up her sons with the idea that any share of the house work is beneath them, belittles her own profession. ? Extraneous Work. But in spite of all the co-operative planning, it has appealed to many people that much time is being put into work in the homes that does not really belong there. This is work that requires an enormous amount of physical energy, and the use of expensive equipment, that might be accomplished just as well outside of the home. One method of bringing this about is by community co-operation. Unselfishness. ?The community in which each member is afraid that the other fellow will get more than his share will never become co-operative in anything. ? Loyalty. The abandoned creameries show a lack of loyalty to the home industry. Homes without water facilities often mean a lack of co-operation on the part of some who fear taxation for the benefit of many. Progressive Viewpoint. ?Women especially need to take a 
 broader view of the home task so as to adjust the work to the best advantage for the future. However picturesque the spinner at the spinning wheel, it would have been retarding the growth of the home to have insisted on holding on to this task. The great industrial upheavals of the past ages have paved the way for the larger life of today. But we are still holding on to tasks that overstrain the physical, and use up energies that should be devoted to that second aspect of the home, partly because we are slow to let go the lesser in order to keep the greater. ? Economy. Many housewives pride themselves upon their economy of material that are wasteful of both energy and time. Do you realize that in the canning season thousands of individual boilers are being placed at almost the same time upon thousands of individual stoves, and that thousands of individual women are broiling over what is really a communal task? We might learn a lesson from the fact that it takes only one sun to broil them all. The same thing occurs weekly with the wash boiler on "black Monday," and is carried on into the week over the ironing board. Community co-operation will make home economics an economy of material, time, and labor, by taking out of the home tasks that may be done just as well, and at less expense, by the community. ? The Power of Doing Team Work. Women sorely need development in this essential characteristic of progress. The inclination to be critical of each other, to think that their "own way" is synonymous with the "best way," to work in ruts so deep that it seems well nigh impossible for the wheels to break either down or out of them, are the biggest obstacles to efficient team work. ACTIVITIES IN WHICH WE DO NOT WANT TO CO-OPERATE. ? Homes. This has been tried but not successfully, since. when we take away the individuality of the home, we usually fail. ? Children. The Oneida Society of New York state sought to make the child the property of the community, on the plea that it would have a better chance for education and development of special gifts under such conditions. An interesting argument might be gotten up for and against but, as a matter of fact, it; failed. ? Nutrition. Public dining rooms to my mind take away from the home one of its highest and most interesting functions, the nutrition of the family, the individual taste, and the family table.