A Prince of Ur. Homespun. "Nay Zillah," whimpered the wench, "'tis not my wish to bawl out all I see or hear. But doth not this approaching sacrifice look like the Prince Abram?" Zillah knew who it was, and her whole frame shook with violent emotion, as she watched him pace slowly by her between the ranks of soldiers who surrounded Abram and his attendant priest with all possible security. The heart of a woman is a curious thing. Zillah had seen her husband's three gracious virgin daughters given over to be burnt upon the altar she had even; watched with dry eyes the carrying of her own child to that awful human sacrificial pyre, and had lured Iscah to her final ruin. But now, the sight of her young master, he who had taught her in her pliant youth to worship the one only God of Heaven and earth, he whom in her secret heart she had adored and would have sold herself a thousand times over to the devil for, just to be his slave for one night — this was more than she could bear She had suspected this from all that had taken place in her master's home that day. She herself, with wicked recklessness had helped to bring this about. Yet now, to see her brave and splendid master ascending to disgraceful death — this struck the vile woman in her one vulnerable spot "Come, wench, come," cried Mardan. Zillah shuddered. She darted to the stairs to fly below. "Ha, ha, my black queen, thou hast lost thy courage, let me revive thee," the mocking voice of Mardan whispered in her ear, as that gallant stepped from the official procession who were accompanying the soldiers to the temple altar above them. "Come with me! The goddess who would stand before the altar of Ishtar must have an alabaster heart and not turn faint before a simple thing like this. The gods demand the sacrifice. The head of the offspring for the head of the man he shall give. Would you have the life of Terah laid upon Elkanah's altar?" Zillah turned her blazing eyes upon the slight form of her master's foster-son, and as she looked long into his fierce, yet cowardly eyes she felt the sinister spell which he sought to cast upon her enraged and seething soul. "Come thou with me," she shrilled in Mardan's ear above the sound of the tinkling cymbals and the crashing trumpets, "come with me, I would have speech with you. See," she held up her three fingers, twisted them curiously as she raised her arms high above her head. The sign was the sign of death or life. Mardan 
 followed her without question. He had stepped upon an asp, he must draw its fangs cunningly. "Where shall I go, my black priestess of Ishtar? Where shall we go?" But even as he spoke Zillah had pinioned her sinewy arms around him and he, ashamed to show cowardice in the very face of the assembled dignity of the temple courts, felt his feet fairly dragged from under him as she sped in and out of the throngs under the moonlight madness and the earth and the sky seemed to reel before the man in her vice-like grip. "Where are you dragging me to, you fiend of hell?" he could scarcely speak for her grip was close about his throat as her arms twined ever close and closer about his strangling throat. "Where? Where are we going? Thou perfumed son of a wicked sire thou ingrate, apostate, corrupted, rotting son of an apostate father? Where are we going? Where should we go, but to the realms of Silver Light, where thou has taught me on thy wicked knees to worship black cats and vermin, while thy vile body was shut in my embraces. Oh, I shall enjoy this last fond flight with thee — for I have much to thank thee for. Thou hast taught me to cast my offspring on the altar of Elkanah, thou hast fed the flames of hell within me which this day burned into the very vitals of my one-time husband and killed him thou hast bound his innocent daughters on the funeral pyre of Elkanah's altars! — — — — Now thou nay, struggle not it is thou and no other — thou hast flung the noose that will fasten the neck of the one glorious god-man, Prince Abram, to the altar to drop under the knife of Nimrod, the bloody king and apostate who with thy help hast let loose all the hell-spawn of the lower courts of Bel We —we go— ! go The choking man sought to cry out to the passers-by that he was being murdered, but the infuriated and crazed woman had him so closely pinioned that he could only gurgle and sputter his fierce emotions into the silence of the hard bosom whereon she had forcibly pillowed his reluctant head as she dragged him towards the far end of the terrace, away from the lights and glitter and the vast moving multitudes. Those who saw them, thought it only some bestial play, and paid no attention to the maniacal laughter of the woman as she wrenched and dragged and flung herself and her victim to the edge of that terraced Ziggurat. "Ha, thou wouldst live to fester this earth with thy vile and rotting carcass, whereon even the birds of prey would sicken, for there is no corruption known to man but has its seeds within thy vile body. Thou and I are of kin, thou king's son, for we are one in vileness and in crime. Thou hast no courage of thine own, but canst rouse the wicked daring of others with thy poisoned lies and inventions. But now —but now— to the realms of the black death — to the deepest — —we two hell will go A heaving shriek that was torn from his throat in deadly agony as Mardan's body fell in her arms from the terrace was all that betrayed the last crime of that blackened soul and body of Zillah and her companion in crime, Mardan. Death to her was far sweeter than life — with Abram gone — Abram who had ever despised such as she and who was now in mortal danger through this curse in her arms — she but laughed in fierce glee as she plunged outward with a last powerful sweep of her steely arms to make sure that no projection should prevent them both from the doom she courted with fierce Cushite courage. No cry, no sound from her grim lips passed into the silence of the night. Fiercely she had lived, fiercely she had died. "Who shrieked?" asked the courtesan who had plucked the youth to her bosom for his impudence. "Only a black wench with some white-robed priest ready for the realms of Silver Light." "Why did they not wait and give themselves to the sacrificial altar?" queried the woman. But the youth only shrugged his shoulders and gave up the riddle. "On the high places the son is burnt." The light winds had brought up a fleecy bank of clouds but; their trailing robes only lingered over the eastern horizon, and as yet had not risen to check the heavenly march of Ishtar, Goddess of the Night. There was a curious shuddering stillness in the brilliant sky that smote upon every heart. It was as if Mother Nature were about to give birth to some tremendous inner miracle. Lot watched his kinsman Abram go by him silently, none of them joining in the rituals, but each shepherd chieftain keeping close eye on Lot as he wandered on up and up idly as if in search of new sensations, —keeping always back to the western end of the platforms. The chanting of the priests, the tinkling of the cymbals, grew louder and more insistent as the procession reached the upper platform. The king sat upon Elkanah's golden throne. Nimrod's tense body was rigid and expectant for this last triumph of his long and successful reign. He had sought to bring death to the Prince of Ur, the scholar, the high priest after the order of the ancients, Abram, friend of God and friend of Pharaoh — this man he had sought to destroy for all the years of his life but each; time he had been frustrated. Now, Abram was to choose he — could enter the priesthood of Elkanah this night by officiating at the altar of human sacrifice, or, upon refusal, Nimrod would, himself, cut out his heart upon the iron altar preparatory to thrusting him into the fiery furnace. Nimrod clenched his brawny hands and his muscles like great whip-cords strained with the exultant thought that now, this very night, he, himself should bind his enemy upon the iron altar, would slay him with the sword of the holy priesthood of Elkanah, and then, into the flames should he be cast as a propitiation to the fire-god whom Abram had despised and denounced. The lust of it was strong upon the wicked ruler, and his eyes shone in expectant refusal to hear the cries of Terah or the possible appeals and promises of his victims. "The head of the offspring, for the head of the father he shall give," sang the priests, and Nimrod ground his teeth in savage pleasure as he saw the victim approaching his throne and the altar beside it. The prince stood before him at last, gracious in the majesty of his personal comeliness and in the calm dignity of an unruffled faith which looked out from the piercing brown eyes now bent upon the soldiers and the priests. Abram finally turned his gaze upon the apostate king, but he spake not. "Bring the high priestess of Ishtar, and her train," cried the king who thus delayed the sacrifice to prolong the torture of his enemy and to give good evidence to the assembled priests of Ur, many of whom adored this mystic Prince of Ur, full proof of Abram's treason to Elkanah, to Izdubar, to Shagreel, to Ishtar, to himself, the king of all Babylon, and to the whole religious worship of the Babylonian monarchy. The harps and cymbals struck their most sensuous notes and the voices of the singers poured riotous melody as the train of the new priestess of Ishtar emerged from the distant throng and swept along the alabaster paved cloisters. Proudly she led her swaying, excited votaries to the spot where Abram stood, herself unmoved and cold. Her face was delicately chiselled, and her loveliness would have melted a far sterner soul than Abram's, were he lacking in that divine virtue of continence which is achieved by man only with the knowledge and worship of the God of heaven. Her outer sash was fringed and flounced with gorgeous shades of red and blue stuffs, but as she slowly swung and bent her supple form, the folds unwound and betrayed one long seductive length of delicate, white covering which gradually swirled round her arms, leaving her body clothed only in the filmy, single under-garment worn by the priestess of Ishtar. It was Iscah! — Crowned queen, priestess, she had reached the barren summit of her ambitions. Behind and about her swirled and circled other lovely maidens, some tall and with the grace of the stately date-palm, others dainty as a river-lily nodding on its stem. But all sought A PRINCE OF UR. 501 to attract prince Abram with dusky, alluring eyes as they plied their sultry-sweet allurements. Yet Abram stood cold and unmoved before them. Nimrod watched the long dance and grunted angrily at its failure to move its victim. "Enough," he cried at last, stung by Abram's haughty silence. "Bring Abram's father's gods, and set them down before him. Come hither Iscah, sit beside me, my queen The attendants marched gravely up, and one by one they placed the twelve ugly gods before the king, designed by Azziama, and fashioned in the workshops of Terah, all of which had been placed by Terah himself in this temple of Elkanah as his own votive offering to the newly finished Ziggurat. "Worship the gods of your father, Abram," cried the king derisively. But Abram stood coldly before him. The king tore his garments as he twisted angrily on his golden throne. "Thou, even thou, dost pretend to the friendship of Pharaoh. But know thou, O rebellious son of a rebellious house, that I am the Egyptian vicegerent, nay the very Pharaoh in mine own person for it is I that was blessed by our father Ham, and this son of a daughter of Egyptus is but a pretender to the ancient throne of Ham. It is mine own right, for I am the Pharaoh, the god and son of Ham, the Pharaoh. Take thou the sacrificial knife in thy hands, high priest Abram. Take it, I say O! The prince looked Nimrod calmly in the eye and with a lightning wrist-movement seized the knife from the hand of the king and flung it far out upon the outer pavement of the Shrine. Nimrod was furious. He motioned to his soldiers to seize Abram and to bind him where he stood. Not a soldier or priest would move. The fear of death beat in the pulses of every priest there. "Wilt thou worship me? Wilt thou pay court to Pharaoh, to Elkanah, to Libnah, and to Izdubar?" Abram looked calmly away from the long iron torture frame on which he was to be securely pinioned, but he said nothing in his own behalf. "If thou wilt not worship me, nor the gods of thine father Terah, then wilt thou worship fire?" The crowd of priests and priestesses held their breath to hear the reply of the victim. For the first time, Abram spoke: "Why not worship water which puts out fire?' said he scornfully. "Well then," quoth the king, "worship water." "Why not worship the clouds which hold the water?' asked Abram again "Very well, worship the clouds as well." "But why not worship rather the wind which blows the clouds away?" "Well, worship the wind," angrily shouted Nimrod. "Why not rather worship God who can resist the wind?" Enraged beyond all pretense of patience or judgment, Nimrod arose to his full height, and with the voice of an enraged animal, he bellowed "By virtue of the ancient priesthood which I hold through Ham and Noah and clothed in the sacred garments thereof, I call upon all the gods of earth, fire, water and clouds to come to my aid. Fire is my god, and thou shalt know his power." With a rush, Abram was seized by a crowd of desperate priests, his raiment was stripped from him, he was bound upon the iron altar, and above him stood Nimrod with the glittering sacrificial knife poised high in air. As Nimrod's hand flew upward it was struck from behind with a darting ball of fire and the white-robed priest nearest him fell to the golden pavement, his head crushed with the stroke of another dancing ball of fire. Instantly the temple court was filled with shouts of confusion and the screams of women. Above and beneath it all there suddenly rumbled and roared from the very bowels of the earth a hideous, sickening sound — it was an earthquake. Fire belched out under the very altar. Abram's bonds were suddenly loosed and he stood upright and unafraid. The massive pillars of the temple, the brazen altars, the great golden images reeled and tumbled. The ringing tones of Abram's call urged the shepherd soldiers on the terraces below to gather their forces and flee to safety. The hoarse shouts, groans and curses of Nimrod's dying and wounded forces were pierced by the shrill cries of women and little children. A woman's death scream added to the furious confusion. "Abram my kinsman, Abram!" It was the blackened and bleeding Iscah pinioned beneath the mangled, writhing bulk of Nimrod's tortured body. Abram looked back at the unhappy wretch as he called — "May God forgive thee O princess — : And then With the frightful tremblings of birth-travail the earth rocked upon her axis. With the swirr of a thousand wings the winds and the waters of heaven swept down upon that mighty concourse. The elements shrieked and bellowed, the waters of heaven tore their way through the cloisters and into the temple precincts. The lightning flung down pillars or set fire, with running globes, to wood and costly hangings, again and again. The earth trembled, the very bowels of the earth were shaken with tumultuous wrath. 503 The priests scrambled and fought for the stairs, to rush below to safety. The delicately clad women flung themselves madly on the rocking alabaster pavements, or dashed wildly to and fro, screaming with despair. The rocking walls of the Ziggurat and its supporting terraces fell stumblingly or swiftly on soldiers and terror-stricken worshipers alike. Only one spot was free from all this tortured motion. Where Abram trod the earth was firm and unmoved. Like his own faith it swayed not nor did it fall. While the earth was reeling to and fro like a drunken man, the mingled shrieks and groans from a thousand dying throats, the howls of the tempest and blasts of the fierce tropic winds — pounding in his ears in the midst of all these combined forces, which the frantic Nimrod had invoked in his despair, the soul of Abram was caught up in spirit. He beheld a vision of the Almighty and the angel of His presence stood beside him and His voice was like the voice of a celestial trumpet as He cried "Abraham, Abraham, behold thy name is no longer Abram, but Abraham. I have heard thee and have come down to deliver thee, and to take thee away from thy father's house and from all thy kinsfolk, into a promised land and this because they turned; their hearts away from me to worship the god of Elkanah, and the god of Libnah, and the god of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. Thou shalt be a pilgrim and a wanderer. have come down to visit thine enemies and to destroy him who hath lifted up his hand against thee, Abraham, my son, Abraham, to take away thy life. I will take thee, to put upon thee my name, even the priesthood of thy father's father and my power shall be over thee as it was with Noah, so shall it be with thee that through thy ministry my name shall be known in the earth forever, for I am thy God —!" The vision closed, but Abraham rechristened in all the heaving elements of fire, water and of the tumults of earth's most deadly forces, stood quite still upon the place of roaring death, calm in the midst of the terrors by which he was surrounded. Up from the upper terrace tottered a soldier, into the temple courts, his abaya fluttering wildly in the fierce tempest, his face beaten with the driving rains. It was Lot. Behind him came the Damascene merchant, followed by a mass of shepherd soldiers who climbed with desperate energy the rocking, tumbling stairs crowded with the dead and dying. Lot reached Abram's side. The white translucent pavements were crumbling with the swirr of the earth-throes, but Abram stood unafraid. He at once focused Lot's confused soldiers and with guarded steps led the way downward for his friends and followers. "Where is my princess Sarai?" cried Abram as they reached the temple gates. 
 "Terah awaits with all our trains of goods and families fifty furlongs down the river's bank. Pray thee to our God that this furious storm and earth-quaking hath not caught up with them." Abram, followed by Lot and Eleazar, at last gained the deserted fields beyond the wildly struggling multitudes about the terraced temple hill, and looked about him in the glare of the soldiers' torches, saying "This night I turn forever from the land of the home of my father, and my father's father. The voice of the Lord hath spoken and my feet shall never press these unhallowed shores of the Euphrates again. I am a pilgrim and a stranger in the earth—" "We, too, shall share thine every pilgrimage —" thus Lot and Eleazar. The distant shouts and moans in the Ziggurat grounds mingled grimly with the low growls of thunderous peals, when the little party fled unchallenged through the chief gate, now broken and cast down, and turned their faces in the dense darkness toward the encampment in the palm groves by the river banks. (to be concluded) MUSIC. An interesting feature of the Jordan Stake Relief Society Conference held on May 22 at Sandy was the excellent musical selections furnished by a boys' orchestra who played selections from "Il Trovatore," and other popular numbers. A girls' chorus sang "Jesus My Savior." Two soprano solos were rendered by Mrs. Archie Crapo and Miss Pearson. . These with some splendid congregational singing, and the interesting reports given by stake and local officers, and the timely and instructive remarks made by the visiting sisters, made an occasion long to be remembered by all who were present.