Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde ISOLATION OF A CASE OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASE The care of a case of scarlet fever or other communicable disease, so that it may not spread to other people, is not only far more effective today than it once was but far less burdensome and inconvenient for the family as well. Except in the case of smallpox, the members of the family who do not come in contact with the patient can continue their usual business unless such business brings them in close contact with children. A room as much apart from the rest of the house as possible should be set aside for the patient and the nurse or mother or attendant. Disease germs will not fly through the air from such a room; they can only be carried on the hands or clothing of the attendant, or on cups, spoons, and other objects taken out of the room. The first of all rules for isolation, then, is that the attendant and the physician and anyone else who enters the sick room and touches anything there should thoroughly wash the hands on leaving the room, and if there is danger of the clothing being soiled as by the coughing of the patient, a special gown should be worn and left in the room on going out. The second rule is that objects in the room, handled by the patient or by the nurse while she is attending the patient, should not be taken from the room; until they have been disinfected; and it is important during the course of the disease to keep the sick room itself as free as possible from gross infection. In the case of such diseases as scarlet fever and diphtheria, all discharges from the mouth, throat and nose, and eyes and ears should be disinfected with particular care. If these precautions are taken during the course of the disease, infection will be checked, and in most cases nothing more need be done at the close of the disease than to give the patient a bath and thoroughly cleanse and disinfect the room and its contents. Bulletin, New York State Department of Health. Vanderhilt Salad. Ingredients 2 small heads of romaine, which is a long-leaved lettuce 1 grapefruit 1 orange; 1 pear (fresh or canned) Grapes or candied cherries to garnish French dressing: Time: Preparation, 20 minutes. Number served 4 persons. : Wash the romaine, remove the coarse outer leaves, and cut each heart into two sections, lengthwise crisp in ice-water. Peel; the grapefruit and orange remove pulp in sections. ; Peel the pear, cut into thin slices, lengthwise. Arrange the prepared fruit neatly on the romaine hearts garnish with a few grapes, ; or a candied cherry, as convenient. Pour over French dressing. Serve very cold. Use orange juice in place of vinegar for the dressing. A cream mayonnaise may be used if preferred. Served with crackers and cheese. This makes an excellent dessert salad. Debutante Salad. Ingredients 1 head lettuce; 1 bunch cress 1 cupful chopped celery 1 cupful diced, cooked tongue 1 cupful diced, cooked chicken 12 large pitted olives, cut in rings French dressing; cream mayonnaise Time Preparation, 40 minutes. : Number served 8 persons. : Mix celery, tongue, chicken and olives. Season with French dressing let stand in refrigerator until very cold. Just before; serving add enough cream mayonnaise to well cover every particle of salad. Arrange on a bed of crisp cress and lettuce. A very dainty luncheon or reception salad. — An Ingenious Feed Dish. If you have puppies or other small animals to feed, get one of the round cake-tins with a tube in the center. Drive a pointed stick through the tube into the ground and you will have a dish that will not tip over. Good Housekeeping. To Remove Fruit Stains from the Hands. Moisten a small portion of cornmeal with vinegar and rub the hands thoroughly with the mixture. It will remove the stains and leave the hands feeling soft and comfortable. Through the shortage and very high price of fruit, it may be necessary for our sisters to make use of some of our vegetables as fruit substitutes. For example Carrots either preserved whole: or grated, and flavored with lemon rind and ginger makes an excellent preserve. Then, too, mashed squash or pumpkin pulp, flavored with spices and ginger, or both, make a most desirable dessert. The grated carrot can be cooked with raisins and sliced oranges. This makes a splendid conserve. The sliced oranges. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 523 however, must be soaked over night in water, before being added to the other fruits, to insure their soft, pulpy condition. Sister Udall of the St. Johns stake, of Arizona, served both kinds of vegetable fruits on her table, and we found them most delicious. We also recommend the old-fashioned water melon preserves, which can be used as well for sweet as sour pickles. Then, too, there is a cantaloupe variety of melon, or more familiarly known as the musk-melon, which can be substituted for peaches, plums, pears, or any of the fruits that we use for sweet pickle purposes. We must not forget the ever-delicious tomato either ripe or green — which will serve our purpose as fruit substitutes as well as any of the other vegetables mentioned. MELON RIND PICKLES, EITHER WATER MELON OR CANTALOUPE. Take rind of melon, leaving a light touch of either the pink or yellow melon meat, which adds very much to the beauty of your pickles or preserves. Trim off the outside, cut in small strips, or lengths about two inches long and an inch wide. Soak in cold water over night with the proportions following 1 tablespoon of alum to a gallon of water, with one teacupful of salt to one gallon of water. Soak over night, drain, and place in clear, cold water for rind to harden. Make a syrup and boil two parts vinegar to one of water whole spices and ginger with sufficient; sugar to suit the taste. Cook the rind of melon, until it is tender, and add to the boiling syrup. Place in a jar to cool. For three consecutive mornings, pour off the syrup and boil, returning it boiling hot to the fruit each time. The last preparation should find the syrup thick and ropy, after which it may be sealed and put away for use. We advise the free use of white sealing wax to cover the top of all fruits, jellies, and preserves, as it excludes the air, and usually prevents any formation of mold on the top of your fruits. You will find these vegetable-fruits nutritious as well as very tasty and delicious. "Lose this day loitering— 'twill be the same story — Tomorrow and the next more dilatory; Then indecision brings its own delays, And days are lost lamenting o'er lost days. Are you in earnest? Seize this very minute What you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Courage has genius, power, and magic in it. Only engage, and then the mind grows heated — Begin it and the work will be completed."