The Bible. By Lucy May Green. "We believe the Bible to be the word of God." (Articles of Faith.) "Search the scriptures," said Jesus, "for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me." The Bible is a collection of scripture written by many authors, and contains sixty-six books, thirty-nine of which are contained in the Old Testament and twenty-seven in the New Testament. It is divided into one thousand one hundred and eighty-nine chapters which contain 3,173 verses. These consist of 773,692 words and 3,566,480 letters. It was written in three languages, Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic. The divisions of the Bible are as follows The first five books, called the Pentateuch, are ascribed to Moses. The historical books are: Joshua, Judges, Ruth, 1 and 2 Samuel, Kings, Chronicles, Ezra. Nehemiah, Esther. Poetical books are: Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon. The four great Prophets: Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations (2 books), Ezekiel, Daniel. The twelve minor Prophets: Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah. Jonah. Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi. The New Testament is divided as follows The four Gospels Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. : The Acts of the Apostles, ascribed to Luke. Epistles of Paul to the various churches. Romans, Corinthians (2), Galatians, Ephesians, Colossians, Thessalonians (2). Epistles to individuals: Timothy (2), Titus, Philemon. The author of the epistle to the Hebrews is not known. 1 Epistle of James, 2 of Peter, 3 of John, 1 of Jude. and the great Apocalypse of John, The Revelation. Many books and scriptures referred to in the Bible narratives are lost to the world. In ancient times the Bible was divided into fifty-four divisions, one of which was read in the Jewish synagogue each Sabbath. The first translation of the scriptures was into the Greek, and 
 about 1240 A. D. the Bible was translated into Latin, and divided into chapters by a Catholic friar by the name of Hugo de Sancto Caro. The subdivision of the chapters into verses was the work of a famous Jewish rabbi named Mordecai Nathan, about 1445. The first English Bible was translated by John Wycliffe, about 1380, but was never printed, although several manuscript copies are still in existence, and are found in libraries. The first printed Bible was translated by William Tyndale assisted by Miles Coverdale, between 1525 and 1530. From that time until 1611 there were many other translations. In 1604 King James of England called fifty-four of the learned men of his kingdom to make a new translation, and in 1607, forty-seven of these commenced their work, and in 1611, was printed the King James Bible which is the one we use today. The revised version which is used quite extensively by students, was revised from the King James edition and original sources, in 1881. There are many changes made, but chiefly in grammar. Through all these many changes the Bible has come to us and we can readily understand why our Article of Faith reads:"We believe the Bible to be the word of God, as far as it is translated correctly." We can see the need of Jesus' admonition to "Search the scriptures," and his words, "Whoso readeth let him understand." We will need the Spirit of the Lord and the gift of discernment, for the Master said: "If any man will do His will he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." Read the Bible often, with a prayerful heart, and obtain a testimony of its worth. It contains the history of the creation of the world and of God's dealings with His covenant people through many generations. The prophecies of the coming Savior, and their literal fulfilment. The life of Jesus Christ on earth and the history of the Gospel dispensations. The many prophecies of the Great Apostasy, the Restoration of the Gospel, the gathering and the final consummation of all things at the end of the world. As literature, the Bible is conceded by all authorities to be the best example in the world, of scholarly, clear, exquisite English. It is a complete geography of the known portions of the world. For romance, what is more beautiful than the stories of Joseph, Ruth, Esther, David, Daniel, Jonah. For historical drama we find The Reign of the Kings, Saul, David, Solomon, and the kings succeeding them. For stories of travel there are the lives of the early Patriarchs, journeyings of the children of Israel, Paul's missionary travels, etc. Some of the most beautiful poetry in the world is contained in the Psalms of David, the writings of Job, and the songs of Moses, Miriam, Deborah, Hannah, Simeon, and Mary. For exposition we have the many beautiful sermons of the Lord Jesus, and of Paul, Peter, James and others. For Relief Society work we have the story of Dorcas, and the virtuous women in the Old and New Testaments. When in trouble and affliction we can find comfort and consolation in the Bible. What is more beautiful than John 14:15, 16; Psalms 91, 23, and many others. In order to understand and explain the principles of our gospel we need to be familiar with the Bible. "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my path," sang the Psalmist. Paul likened it to the "Sword of the Spirit which is the word of God." We sometimes sing of the iron rod, which is the Word of God. Are we holding on to it? Does the word of God prove to us that it is indeed a lamp to our feet? Can we use the sword of the Spirit to fight the battle of the Lord? Let us read the holy scriptures, both ancient and modern, and, listen also to the living oracles, for in "them ye think ye have eternal life, and these are they which testify of me." Note. The statistics and information was found in an old encyclopedia which belonged to my grandfather. TO EMMA. So wee a gift, my baby new. With auburn hair and eyes of blue. You came to us from heaven above To prove forever "God is love." So beautiful, sweet baby mine, Your spirit, child of God divine. Your presence here to us does prove That love is God, and God is Love. Lucy May Green. .