Proper Guidance of Children. THRIFT. It is generally admitted by thoughtful parents, that the young should be taught to be thrifty and frugal some wise parents go; into detail and teach their children the object of their savings, and how best to spend their money. A child may learn how to hoard his money, but not how to save well unless he learns how to spend well. Some parents think they are teaching a child how to save by buying him an iron bank that cannot be opened, and then requiring him to drop into it every penny he gets not so; they are teaching him nothing of thrift or real saving, but a good lesson on hoarding. He cannot learn how to spend money properly unless he is given the responsibility of his own expenditures; therefore follows A PLAN FOR AN ALLOWANCE. If each child assumes his part in making the home a happy unit, then there is something due him of the income of that home. He should have an allowance, not as a reward for credits but because, if he is making his effort, he deserves one, especially since he will get from it one of the most important lessons of his life, that of living within his means. This allowance, if only ten cents a week, should be given at some regular time, and the one giving the allowance should attend to the business with great regularity, for this is part of the lesson to be learned. There are glass banks to be had nowadays, having two or more compartments and a little lock, that are a great improvement on the old iron bank, as children enjoy seeing the money they have deposited. The key should be in the hands of the person in charge of the account. An excellent plan for promoting thrift and teaching children to save is, A HOME BANKING SYSTEM Let us assume a case of a seven-year-old boy being allowed twenty cents a week. We may consider that he shall keep in mind four things: Regular weekly allowance, extra earnings, gifts, expenses. After totaling his salary, extra earnings and gifts, then let PROPER GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 511 us consider his expenses: first, right here lies a golden opportunity for teaching the Law of Tithing. As he grows older he may learn that a true tithe is one-tenth of all his increase, but for the present let him put aside one-tenth of his allowance (two cents) for tithing, have eight cents to spend, and ten cents to bank. In the disposition of the eight cents, he should be guided, but, let the mother not insist upon how he spend it, else how shall he learn his lesson? He must, however, remember that he is expected to bank half of his income. Suppose that in a moment of temptation, he spends an extra nickel, then the next week he receives but fifteen cents, which, minus his two cents tithing and ten cents for bank, leaves only three cents to spend. Under such a plan, children get the benefit of a nice little course in bookkeeping, costing them no effort, and they are happy and satisfied with a small sum. Also, the very noticeable and general habit of children teasing for a nickel, will be done away with. Some parents might look upon the spending of money by a little child as an extravagance or waste of money my observation; teaches me that under this system, the little one soon learns never to purchase perishable trash, and that there is great satisfaction in being able to bank more than half his income, and in accumulating, for when he has accumulated, say $5, he can take it to the big bank and possess a "real bank book like papa." A child who can go through a store full of attractive things, spend a small sum of money sensibly, and come home with some loose change in his pocket, is on the road to thrift. In connection with the subject of saving, it is well to teach the child HOW TO GIVE. Let him understand early in life that he owes some of his means, as well as some of his time to his church that it is nice; to give to mother and father or friends, but he should learn that small gifts, if appropriate and well selected, give better satisfaction to all concerned than extravagant gifts, and that he should give only such presents as he can afford. In other words, he should be taught to use his head as well as his purse. I have heard parents praise their children for giving presents promiscuously, thinking it an act of generosity; whereas, it was merely the act of a spendthrift. One of the greatest responsibilities that confronts the American mother today, is that of teaching her children, especially her daughters, how to spend, and to give with prudence and common sense. Our Christmas giving, for example, is becoming a crude practice, instead of the beautiful custom instituted by the three 
 wise men when they brought their gifts of love to the Christ Child. The child might lay aside small sums when he has extra earnings or gifts, for a Christmas or giving fund. He will soon learn how to give the things that will bring the greatest pleasure to all concerned. After all, real financing consists in wise and judicious spending, and the child who is taught to purchase necessary personal articles, games, tools and books, with discrimination, is given the best of guidance in the value and proper use of money. Let us emphasize the following maxim: Purpose, Plan. Procedure. Books to read on the subject: "Home Training" Bulletin Nos. 2 and 7, by Wm. A. McKeever. Lucy Wright Snow. Charity By Miriam Crittenden Carmen. We print here a charming poem which might well be dedicated to our honored President. Emmeline B. Wells Her life is full of simple things each day She does the common toil with homely care. A cloistered novice whom the world forgets. A widow in whose cruse is oil to spare Living so faithfully that death will seem Merely a shadow down an endless dream. For when her call shall come, she will not go As one who waiteth graciously undimmed, : Her flame-like soul will leap up at the last To some old wonted task, some lamp untrimmed Or she will hear a lonely child who cries And needs to comfort it before she dies. —Selected.