Notes from the Field. Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the General Board, who visited the Benson stake Relief Society conference brought a number of interesting items in her report which we give here: Benson stake Relief Society conference, held July 14, 1916, at Richmond, Utah. There were in attendance four hundred and twenty-five sisters, and eight brothers. All branches of the work were in splendid condition. Out of a membership of eight hundred and fifty-seven, two hundred and thirty-three subscribe for the Magazine. The choir, directed by a competent leader, contained eight well-trained voices. In each of the twelve wards represented at the conference the organization is complete. The Stake President, Sister Higher, with her two counselors, Sisters Merrill and Hendricks, are very able, sincere, and energetic women, united and interested in everything that pertains to their societies. The classes in genealogy are directed by Sister Roskelly and are accomplishing a great work both in temple attendance and in teaching the necessity of the preparation of family records. In one small ward, for the first month, the teachers raised twenty-five dollars toward the penny fund for the erection of the Canadian and Hawaiian temples. J. P. M. F. Memorial Cottage, Sharon, Vermont, July 15, 1916. Dear President Smith and Aunt Julina: We reached this beautiful and heavenly place last night at 6:30, just one hour behind scheduled time. We had sent word to President Brown and he met us at the station in South Royalton. He bundled us all. bag and baggage, into his auto, and we proceeded along one of the most picturesque roads in the world which leads up to the cottage. Brother Brown pointed out the old schoolhouse where your grandfather taught the village school, and other points of interest. Upon our arrival at the cottage we all received mail. The girls danced with joy over their letters, and I can assure you we were pleased with your letter to us. Sister Hyde felt quite serious on learning of Colda's operation, but is comforted with the thought that Aunt Julina was with her. Before going any further I must tell you that we are all exceedingly well and that we have seen and heard so many wonderful things that we will never get through talking about them. 
 Emily and Edith are two of the sweetest girls I ever knew. They are so interesting, and so interested in everything they see. This trip will be a real education to them, and I can assure you they are making the most of it. — To go back a little we left Ithaca on July 1, reaching New York the same night. We went at once to the Mission house and reported. They recommended rooms to us just through the block on 127th street. We held meeting with the New York and Brooklyn societies, and saw many of the sights in and about New York. On Thursday the 6th we went to Washington where we spent Friday and Saturday. We saw all the historic things around Washington the first day, including the old Lee Mansion at Arlington. The second morning we spent at Mt. Vernon, where we were much impressed with the typical old southern homestead and with the belongings of the Washingtons. We could have only the greatest feeling of reverence as we stood by their graves. On the afternoon of this day we went over to the Senate office building, where we had a fine visit with Senator Smoot. Later in the afternoon he took us for a most wonderful ride. Mrs. Smoot was not well enough to go with us, so we went over to the home to see her. Her ailment was a severe cold. On the next day, Sunday the 9th, we went to Baltimore where we held a splendid Relief Society meeting. We found Dr. Allen there and he was as glad to see us as we were to see him. In passing, I would say that we all felt that Baltimore is the ugliest, dirtiest, most miserable town we have visited, and oh, how hot it was! We nearly melted away. If we had not been the most amiable creatures in the world, I fear we would have been disagreeable. We left that same night for Philadelphia, where we were met by Miss Edward, a missionary. The next forenoon we visited the historic points of interest, the most interesting of which was Independence Hall. We could almost imagine the old signers of the Declaration were still alive and had just gone out for a little air and change of scene. In the afternoon we had a most interesting Relief Society meeting with a large number of investigators (women). Miss Edward felt that we had done much good here. After the meeting we went directly to the station and took the train for New York. I forgot to tell you in the beginning that Sister Empey did not go with us on this southern trip. She had relatives in New Haven, Conn., and as we desired to hold a Relief Society meeting there, she went up alone and attended to this work and visited with her relatives. We reached New York late Monday night (July 10), and left the next afternoon at six o'clock for Boston by boat. We shall never forget that boatride in the moonlight. Upon our arrival, in the morning, we went immediately to the Thorndike Hotel (a place recommended to us by Dr. Winship, whom we met in New York). In the afternoon we held meeting at Lynne, Mass. The girls decided to stay in Boston while we went over to meeting, and we were glad they did, for I tell you it took people who were old and weather-beaten to stand this trip. I never experienced such a hot, murky day in all my life. We first took a boat, then steam cars, then walked a hundred miles, it seemed. We went to the mission house where the missionaries were staying, and after taking us up a few flights of stairs, they gave us some fine, cold milk, bread, butter, and cheese. Our faces were as red as beets, — and we were puffing like steam-engines especially Jennie and I. Emma made up for this with bulging eyes and shaky hands. This was their hottest day this summer in Lynne. We had a fine meeting, and after it was over Elder Harold Barnes (17th ward) came over to Boston with us to see the girls. He was delighted to see them, I can assure you. The next day (13th) we "sight-saw" Boston. In the morning we visited Concord and Lexington and all the interesting — points connected with the Revolutionary War the homes of Emerson, Hawthorn, Louise Alcot, and Thoreau. We also went to Sleepy Hollow and saw their graves. They are neighbors in the last, long sleep as they were in life. The girls were particularly delighted to go through Louise Alcot's home where Little Women, and all her other interesting books, were written. At Cambridge we saw the homes of Lowell and Longfellow, the old Elm where Washington took command of the American army. Harvard University, etc., etc. We all voted this the most important side trip we had taken. In the afternoon we visited the Genealogical Library with which we were all delighted. The next day, the 14th, we left for Vermont, arriving here in the evening. My letter is getting so long, and I am writing so rapidly, that I fear you will not be able to read it, but I must say a word about this place. I think no one can possibly imagine what a beautiful and heavenly spot it is here at the Monument and Cottage, without actually visiting the place and after our hard and strenuous trip, ; it seemed that we had really stepped into Paradise. The rolling hills are green with verdure, and the great old trees, wonderful in their majesty; and as we rode along we could smell the sweet odors of clover and pennyroyal. Sister Brown had a delicious home-cooked chicken dinner for us, and I tell you we did full justice to it — even Emily was hearty as a farmer. After dinner we took a walk. We went over to the old site where the Mack house stood, saw where the old hearth and 
 cellar were built, and the remains of the old flower garden. Whether this was the place or not, we imagined that it was here that Joseph Smith courted and won the hand of Lucy Mack. We discussed the matter and all of us felt the romantic spell. The whole thing was accentuated by a beautiful, full moon, which made things almost as bright as day. We wandered back to the old well where we had a refreshing drink. As we walked around the cottage we could see in our mind's eye the little boy Hyrum playing about these grounds. We saw the old stone step where we imagined he sometimes sat and ate bread and milk out of a wooden bowl, using a pewter spoon, or bread and berry jam, as other New England children were wont to do. Everything seemed so sacred to us. We sat on the porch a while and then decided we wanted to gather round the old hearthstone. We could imagine Lucy Mack Smith sitting here by a log fire, bathing the baby Prophet, and the dear little boy Hyrum waiting upon her, and leaning upon her shoulder in turns. We thought of the cold, bleak night when the Prophet was born, and wondered how they managed to keep warm. After chatting for a while we sang, "Joseph Smith's First Prayer," and other suitable hymns. I can assure you we will never live long enough to forget this wonderful and impressive night. Today we shall visit the old schoolhouse, the farmhouse, the sugar mill or house, and the groves surrounding this sacred and historic spot. On a separate sheet I am sending you our itinerary as far as it is planned. Now, dear President Smith and Aunt Julina, I cannot close this letter without thanking you both from the bottom of my heart, for making it possible for me to take this wonderful trip. It is truly the climax of all of my opportunities and my whole soul is filled with gratitude and thanksgiving. The visit here at Vermont and the one we anticipate at Palmyra will, I am sure, be the most enjoyable and profitable experiences I shall ever have. Other places are wonderful and historic, but these places are sacred and holy. I have thanked the Lord every moment since our arrival here, that the Church has purchased this property and erected this sacred monument, and that I am permitted to see it. Well, I hope I have not tired you out. Perhaps you have already been compelled to read this in installments. With love and gratitude to you, I am. Very sincerely yours. Amy B. Lyman. P. S. — Everybody sends greetings to you. including the Browns. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 517 We present here extracts of letters written by Sisters Lyman and Hyde while on their journey. Next month we will give a full account of their historic trip with illustrations. In a letter from Sister Hyde written from Chicago, we have the following items "We held meetings all day yesterday in the sweltering heat. Had one of the largest and best attended of any of our meetings. The Spirit of the Lord was with us, and I believe everybody present felt the same. Sister Ellsworth was not present. She has overworked herself until she had a nervous collapse. She insisted, however, that we come and see her, which we did, and had a very pleasant chat, and left her feeling, I think, much relieved, as she was sick at heart because she could not go with us through the mission. This mission is in splendid condition. Such an attendance at one of our ward meetings, would, I am sure, astonish the bishop of any ward. We had many strangers and investigators, as well. The reports were splendid, showing the work from the beginning. Brother Ellsworth said, in part, this "That Relief Society work had not been considered feasible in the missions because there had never been any definite plan to work to that the Relief Society Magazine gave birth to plans; that could be adopted and used. I want to say that I consider the Relief Society as among the greatest factors in making converts, and spreading the Gospel.We do appreciate the Relief Society and its great Magazine, which is doing the work Joseph the Prophet intended it to do." Sister Ellsworth is a most capable President, understands her work, and then does it. Bannock Stake has recently been reorganized. Mrs. Julia A. Pond, who has been such a faithful and diligent president, found herself obliged to retire from her arduous labors. She certainly carried with her the love and good wishes of all her associate workers. The new officers are President, Gwennie Redford: first counselor, Katherine Sorenson second counselor, Sarah M. ; McClelland secretary, Agnes Lloyd chorister, May Barrett; ; organist, Emily Sorenson. A feature of the Pocatello Conference was a Relief Society chorus rendered in the Sunday afternoon general session with pleasing effect. Boise stake possesses an excellent Relief Society choir Mrs. ; Helen O. Hale is a natural musician and is also choir leader of the Sunday Schools.