[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Prevent OConnor]
[Prevent Crippling Diseases, Basil O'Connor,]
need:  18  yards  of  rickrack,  a  7-inch 
zipper,  and  five  different  colored 
cotton  prints,  3/4  of  a  yard  of  each. 
These  directions  are  for  a  27  to  28 
inch  long  skirt.  You  can  lengthen 
or  shorten  it,  as  needed,  by  cutting 
the  squares  a  little  smaller  or  larger. 
To  cut  fabric: 
1.  Cut  from  each  separate  print,  4  rec- 
tangles 10  inches  wide  and  11  inches  long. 
2.  Cut  only  one  waistband  from  one 
print  to  your  waist  measure,  plus  two 
inches. 
To  make  patchwork: 
1.  First  tier — seam  together  patches  on 
the  10-inch  sides,  using  one  of  each  print. 
Then  repeat  in  the  same  order,  having  10 
patches  in  one  tier.  Press  all  the  seams 
open  flat. 
2.  Second  tier — repeat  the  entire  first 
tier,  starting  with  second  print.  Be  sure  to 
press  all  the  seams. 
3.  Third  tier — seam  together  patches  on 
11 -inch  side  as  above,  starting  with  the 
third  print. 
4.  Join  the  tiers  together  horizontally, 
Page  42 
being  sure  that  no  two  identical  patches 
are  next  to  each  other.  Press  seams  open. 
5.  Stitch  rickrack  over  the  vertical 
seams,  then  over  the  horizontal  seams. 
To  complete  the  skirt: 
1.  Seam  the  ends  together,  making  the 
seam  be  the  back  of  the  skirt.  Leave 
opening  for  the  zipper.  Stitch  rickrack 
over  this  seam  and  the  front  edge  of  the 
opening.     Insert  the  zipper. 
2.  Fold  the  waistband  in  half  and  seam 
the  ends  with  the  right  sides  together. 
Turn. 
3.  Gather  the  upper  edge  of  the  skirt  to 
fit  the  waistband,  leaving  1  inch  free  for 
the  overlap. 
FLARED    PATCHWORK   SKIRT 
Trimmed  With  Rickrack

FUN  TO  MAKE  AND  WEAR 
Page  43 
4.  Attach  the  waistband,  first  stitching 
the  inner  side  of  the  band  to  the  wrong 
side  of  the  skirt,  then  folding  to  the  right 
side  of  the  skirt  and  top  stitching  over 
the  seam. 
5.  Stitch  rickrack  over  the  waistband 
stitching. 
6.  Hem  the  lower  edge  with  Vi  inch 
first  fold  and  2  Vi   inch  depth. 
]ifiY  Jumper 
Now  for  the  '7^%  Jumper."  This 
jumper  answers  the  everyday  prob- 
lem of  how  to  keep  the  little  girl 
attractively  groomed  and  yet  free 
for  good  hard  play.  It  is  a  jumper 
that  snaps  up  the  sides  and  at  the 
shoulders,  allowing  endless  changes 
simply  by  sewing  and  by  stitching 
a  variety  of  fronts  in  different 
prints,  stripes,  and  polka  dots. 
The  jumper  is  perfect  for  play- 
time —  Indian  head  washability 
sees  to  that,  and  with  the  right 
blouse,  it  becomes  a  crisp,  colorful 
school  dress. 
The  back  of  the  jumper  is  made 
in  basic  color.  Different  fronts  can 
be    made,    utilizing    Indian    head 
SEPARATE  FRONT  FOR  JUMPER 
Showing  fasteners  on  both  sides 
JUMPER  WITH  BELT  AND 
POCKET 
prints;  snaps  on  both  sides  permit 
quick  changes.  All  you  need  do  is 
remove  the  solid  front,  throw  it  in 
the  washer,  and  snap  on  the  alter- 
nate change. 
This  makes  for  easy  ironing,  too. 
The  simplicity  of  the  styling  makes 
the  jiffy  jumper  practical  and  pret- 
ty for  mother,  too.  \\^ith  the 
jumper  silhouette  an  accepted  fash- 
ion, you  can  make  your  own  style 
to  your  own  pattern  in  very  little 
time. 
Just  follow  your  favorite  jumper 
pattern,  placing  snaps  along  the 
side  seams  instead  of  stitching  them 
together.  For  a  second  jiffy  jumper, 
you  might  try  using  large  colorful 
buttons  in  place  of  the  snaps. 
Still  another  variation  to  this 
idea,  which  permits  dozens  of  mix- 
match  combinations,  would  be  to 
make  the  back  of  the  jumper  from 
corduroy  or  gabardine,  and  make 
the  fronts  from  colorful  matching 
and  contrasting  cottons.

FROM    THE    FIELD 
General  Secretary-Treasurer  Hulda  Parker 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal  of 
material  for  ''Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  January  1958,  page  47,  and 
in  the  Relief  Society  HandbooJ:  of  Instructions. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Mildred  Himes 
EAST  CACHE   STAKE    (UTAH),   LOGAN  TWENTIETH  WARD   SINGING 
MOTHERS  PARTICIPATE  IN  A  CONCERT  HONORING 
FLORENCE  J.  MADSEN,  May  19,  i960 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Anna  Jean  Skidmore,  director,  Logan  Twentieth  Ward 
Singing  Mothers;  Florence  J.  Madsen,  member,  General  Board  of  ReHef  Society;  Carol 
Peterson;  Shirley  Hanson;  Gloria  Anderson;  Lulla  Ve  Davis;  June  Merrell;  Annabel
