[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Fun to | Author: Thulin]
Page 4} Fun to lake and WVear Shirley Thulin AKE these two attractive outfits for schooldays. 'They are easy to make and a joy to wear. Reminiscent of Grandma's patchwork quilt, is this patchwork skirt. The teenager in your home will love wearing it to classes. She may even want to make it herself. It is simple to make and is a good way to use leftover cotton prints from former sewing projects. The "Jiffy Jumper" also, is simple to make and fun to wear, and it is practical. Patchwork Skirt For the patchwork skirt you will need: 18 yards of rickrack, a 7-inch zipper, and five different colored cotton prints, 3/4 of a yard of each. These directions are for a 27 to 28 inch long skirt. You can lengthen or shorten it, as needed, by cutting the squares a little smaller or larger. To cut fabric: 1. Cut from each separate print, 4 rectangles 10 inches wide and 11 inches long. 2. Cut only one waistband from one print to your waist measure, plus two inches. To make patchwork: 1. First tier—seam together patches on the 10-inch sides, using one of each print. Then repeat in the same order, having 10 patches in one tier. Press all the seams open flat. 2. Second tier—repeat the entire first tier, starting with second print. Be sure to press all the seams. 3. Third tier—seam together patches on 11-inch side as above, starting with the third print. 4. Join the tiers together horizontally, Page 42 being sure that no two identical patches are next to each other. Press seams open. 5. Stitch rickrack over the vertical seams, then over the horizontal seams. To complete the skirt: 1. Seam the ends together, making the seam be the back of the skirt. Leave opening for the zipper. Stitch rickrack over this seam and the front edge of the opening. Insert the zipper. 2. Fold the waistband in half and seam the ends with the right sides together. Turn. 3. Gather the upper edge of the skirt to fit the waistband, leaving 1 inch free for the overlap. La Lon ZO YE ee HU Ss AP% FLARED PATCHWORK SKIRT Trimmed With Rickrack FUN TO MAKE AND WEAR 4. Attach the waistband, first stitching the inner side of the band to the wrong side of the skirt, then folding to the right side of the skirt and top stitching over the seam. 5. Stitch rickrack over the waistband stitching. 6. Hem the lower edge with % inch first fold and 2% inch depth. Jiffy Jumper Now for the "Jiffy Jumper." This jumper answers the everyday problem of how to keep the little girl attractively groomed and yet free for good hard play. It is a jumper that snaps up the sides and at the shoulders, allowing endless changes simply by sewing and by stitching a variety of fronts in different prints, stripes, and polka dots. The jumper is perfect for playtime — Indian head _ washability sees to that, and with the right blouse, it becomes a crisp, colorful school dress. The back of the jumper is made in basic color. Different fronts can be made, utilizing Indian head SEPARATE FRONT FOR JUMPER Showing fasteners on both sides Page 43 mann ( 9 == JUMPER WITH BELT AND POCKET prints; snaps on both sides permit quick changes. All you need do is remove the solid front, throw it in the washer, and snap on the alternate change. This makes for easy ironing, too. The simplicity of the styling makes the jiffy jumper practical and pretty for mother, too. With the jumper silhouette an accepted fashion, you can make your own style to your own pattern in very little time. Just follow your favorite jumper pattern, placing snaps along the side seams instead of stitching them together. For a second jiffy jumper, you might try using large colorful buttons in place of the snaps. Still another variation to this idea, which permits dozens of mixmatch combinations, would be to make the back of the jumper from corduroy or gabardine, and make the fronts from colorful matching and contrasting cottons. as \\_FROM THE FIELD IZ General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents.