[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Hymn of | Author: List]
[Hymn of the Month, Annual List,]
crliimn  Of  the    liionth  —  Annual  JList 
January  to  December  1961 
npHE  Church-wide  congregational  hymn  singing  project,  inaugurated  by 
the  Church  Music  Committee,  will  be  continued  during  the  coming 
year,  and  all  auxiliary  organizations  have  been  invited  to  participate.  The 
purpose  of  this  project  is  to  increase  the  hymn  repertoire  of  the  Church 
members  and  to  place  emphasis  on  the  message  of  the  hymns.  Stake 
Relief  Society  choristers  and  organists  are  requested  to  give  assistance  at 
leadership  meetings  to  ward  choristers  and  organists  in  carrying  out  this 
project. 
January 
Come,  Let  Us  Anew 
Charles  Wesley  -  James  Lucas 
No. 
17 
February 
Choose  the  Right 
James  L.  Townsend  -  Henry  A.  Tuckett 
No. 110 
March 
Jesus,  the  Very  Thought  of  Thee 
Bernard  of  Clairvaux  -  John  B.  Dykes 
No. 
148  (Easter) 
April 
We  Are  Sowing 
H.  A.  Tuckett 
No. 
192 
May 
There  Is  Beauty  All  Around  (Love  at  Home) 
No. 
169 
June 
0  God,  The  Eternal  Father 
William  W.  Phelps  - 
Felix  Mendelssohn 
No. 
125 
July 
Sweet  Is  the  Work,  My  God,  My  King 
James  Crystal  -  Frank  W.  Asper 
No. 168 
August 
Let  Us  Oft  Speak  Kind  Words 
Joseph   L.  Tow^nsend   - 
Ebenezer  Beesley 
No. 
94 
September 
Nearer,  Dear  Savior,  to  Thee 
Joseph  L.  Townsend  -  Williaai  Clayson 
No. 
117 
October 
Lead  Kindly  Light 
John  Henry  Newman 
John  B.  Dykes 
No. 
112 
November 
Have  I  Done  Any  Good? 
Will  L.  Thompson  - 
Will  L.  Thompson 
No. 
December 
More  Holiness  Give  Me 
No. 
114 
Philip  Paul  Bliss  - 
Philip  Paul  Bliss 
Page  39

LPre\)ent   L^rippung   LOiseases 
Basil  O'Connor 
President,  The  National  Foundation 
T^HE  National  Foundation,  parent  organization  of  the  New  March  of 
Dimes,  has  not  only  kept  pace  with  the  great  strides  made  in  medical 
research  towards  the  solution  of  health  problems,  but,  in  many  areas,  has 
also  assumed  a  leadership  role  in  the  effort  to  improve  health  standards 
in  the  Nation. 
'Trevent  Crippling  Diseases"  is  the  theme  of  the  1961  New  March 
of  Dimes.  This  is  the  purpose  for  the  dimes  and  dollars  which  will  come 
from  every  corner  of  the  Nation  ...  to  protect  human  life  through  scien- 
tific research  ...  to  help  educate  young  health  workers  so  desperately 
needed  by  the  entire  Nation  ...  to  give  dignity  to  lives  shattered  by  para- 
lytic polio,  by  certain  birth  defects,  by  rheumatoid  arthritis. 
The  New  March  of  Dimes  is  on  its  way  ...  on  its  way  to  solving 
two  other  great  medical  problems  with  the  same  skills  that  were  brought 
to  bear  against  polio  and  produced  the  Salk  vaccine  ...  on  its  way  to  do 
the  job  that  needs  doing  against  birth  defects  and  arthritis. 
Over  the  years.  National  Foundation  research  has  been  unique  in  the 
voluntary  health  field  because  it  has  not  been  oriented  to  a  single  disease. 
Instead,  it  has  concentrated  on  the  whole  field  of  virus  research  and  thus 
the  findings  have  had  a  bearing  on  the  whole  field  of  disease  and  disa- 
bility. 
Today,  viruses  are  valuable  tools  for  National  Foundation-supported 
scientists  engaged  in  basic  research  on  human  cells.  This  work  promises 
to  have  an  important  bearing  both  on  genetics  and  cancer  research.  Some 
March-of-Dimes-supported  scientists  are  particularly  concerned  with  the 
possible  relationship  between  viruses  and  birth  defects. 
Prevent  crippling  diseases.    Please  say  YES  to  the  NEW  MARCH 
OF  DIMES. 
  1  ♦  I 
uLiaaen  uiarmonies 
Maude  O.  Cook 
Have  you  ever  heard  the  day  break. 
Or  the  shades  of  evening  fall? 
Have  you  listened  to  the  music  of  the  spheres? 
Have  you  caught  the  silken  rustle 
of  the  seasons  as  they  pass? 
Have  you  hearkened  to  the  tramp  of  marching  years? 
Are  there  whispers  in  the  twilight 
Speaking  solace  to  the  heart, 
Bringing  peace  and  comfort  to  dispel  the  fears? 
Is  the  air  about  us  vibrant  — 
Filled  with  hidden  harmonies  — 
Tones  too  subtle  to  be  heard  by  mortal  ears? 
Page  40

y^ulia  ^ytnderson  Jvirh^  Specializes  in  uiardanger  vl/ork 
JULIA  Anderson  Kirby,  Logan,  Utah,  is  a  specialist  in  the  exacting  art  of  Hardanger, 
a  type  of  handwork  which  is  ver\'  beautiful  and  decorative,  though  practically  un- 
known in  many  areas  today.  Hardanger  handwork,  named  from  a  district  in  Norway, 
consists  of  intricate  and  \arious  designs  of  drawnwork  in  squares  and  diamonds  and  other 
patterns.  Recently  Mrs.  Kirby  presented  a  lovely  Hardanger  cloth  to  the  Logan 
Temple. 
An  enthusiastic  artist  at  other  tvpes  of  handwork,  Mrs.  Kirby  crochets,  knits, 
embroiders,  makes  many  useful  articles  with  applique  designs,  and  is  an  expert  at 
ceramics.  Her  children,  grandchildren,  and  friends  have  been  given  many  exquisite 
articles  of  her  handwork. 
^^^idowed  in  young  \^•omanhood,  with  three  children  to  rear,  she  learned 
industry  and  responsibility.  She  was  converted  to  the  Church  in  1923,  and  later 
married  John  J.  Kirby.  She  has  served  faithfully  in  the  women's  auxiliaries  of  the 
Church  and  has  been  a  visiting  teacher  and  a  member  of  the  work  meeting  committee 
in  Relief  Society.  Her  family  now  includes  twelve  grandchildren  and  eighteen  great- 
grandchildren. 
^( cts 
Padda  M.  Speller 
Rayleigh,  Essex,  England 
To  say  'T  love  thee"  costs  me  naught, 
Mere  words  and  nothing  more, 
But  the  obedience  I  have  wrought 
Proclaims  ''Thee  I  adore." 
Page  41'