[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Award | Author: Contest]
Award Winners Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May i960 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1960. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Hope M. Wilhams, Richfield, Utah, for her story "Grafted." 'The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Hazel K. Todd, Brigham City, Utah, for her story "The Happety Road." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Kit J. Poole, Long Beach, Callifornia, for her story "Stranger at the Gate." Mrs. Williams is a first-time winner in this contest; Mrs. Todd is a winner for the second time; and Mrs. Poole is a first-time winner. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1961. Fiftyeight stories were entered in the contest for 1960. The contest was initiated to enPage 16 courage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Women who are interested in entering the short story contest are reminded that for several years past, and continuing until May 1958, a helpful article on short story writing was published in the May or June issue of the Magazine. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The General Board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Sirst PrizeWinning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Grafted Hope M. Williams OR 5: HOPE M. WILLIAMS 66 UT 'er here! It's gonna' be a homer! Home it!" These cries reached Janet's ears as she sat at her desk near the window. She lifted her head from her books to see her young nine-yearold son, Ronnie, slide free into home plate. A smile lingered on her face as she watched the tickled way he picked himself up, brushed off his pants, and received the well-earned pats on the back from the boys on his team. His face was damp and dusty, and one whole side of his levis was solid dirt despite the dusting routine, but the grin on his face showed pure joy. I'm glad I didn't have that lot plowed for a garden, Janet thought, although it would have helped with the groceries. And Ronnie is so happy to have the boys come here to play. Besides, she confessed to herself, a garden is just too hard for me to take care of alone. She dismissed these thoughts from her mind and went back to the clippings and pictures before her. Janet had been trying to get courage enough to work on her "Book of Remembrance" for some time, but could never quite get beyond the starting process. Just seeing some familiar thing of her husband's — a letter or a picture — brought back that painful tightness in her chest, so the boxes of clippings would be put away to await a braver day. 'This seemed to be that day, for she had finished several pages in the Ancestry section, copying their family group sheet again in black ink, remembering to write the word, adopted, after Ronnie's name, and to follow carefully the line across to record the date of his sealing. She had even been able to fill in the marriage and endowment dates opposite her husband's name, and, with a steady hand, the date in the deceased column, 25 Nov. 1954. How close David seems to me today, Janet mused; almost as though he were actually with us again. And Page 17 18 that's the way it should be, she concluded calmly, as she pasted in a picture of herself and David beside Ronnie's picture, marked, Age — three years. It had been nearly six years since the terrible accident that had taken David's life, and from which she and Ronnie, both badly bruised and broken, had miraculously survived. They had had only eight years of married life, and Ronnie had been with them just four short years when the tragedy occurred. What a long time ago it seems, she thought, when the Child Welfare Department of the Relief Society called to tell us about our baby. In her memory Janet was back again with her husband on that never-tobe-forgotten day when they had brought Ronnie home. How sweet he was and how precious! How his little hands would fold about her outstretched finger! Could any parents have been more proud? Could any parents have prayed more fervently for their child than we did, I wonder? Hm-m — here's a picture of Ronnie when he sang, "Doggie in the Window," at that family reunion. Was he really just two years old? Id better write that down — that's quite unbelievable! She picked up a picture showing Ronnie standing with an arm around each of them. That's just the way he stood in the car after he'd been sealed to us, and that's when he said, "Now I am Daddy's and Mommy's boy forever and ever!" As she leafed through more pictures and papers thinking of that happy time, she noticed a poem that she had clipped from a magazine at a time when they had still been waiting for their adopted child. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1961 poem was entitled, "To a Foster Child." She read it through, thinking as she did so how accurately the author had portrayed the emotion she had so often felt but had been unable to express. She read the last lines aloud, enjoying the rhythm and the poetry of the words: The days have lengthened, listening Toward your voice somewhere crying. The barren stalk seeks out its blossom, Choice between wholeness and dying. Let bone of bone, let flesh of flesh be part, For stock, like seed, may fruit. Love flowers fiercely in the heart Grafted to heart by need. (—Grace Maddock Miller, McCall's, April 1941. Reprinted by permission from McCall's.) "Grafted by need," she replied. "That's a beautiful comparison!" ANG! The whole house shook as Ronnie burst into the room, and Janet's reverie was abruptly interrupted. "Tl never play with those kids again! I hate 'em all!" The words exploded from Ronnie as he bolted through the sunny kitchen and through the hall to his own bedroom where he again slammed the door. Silence followed; then Janet could hear sounds of muffled sobbing. Oh, dear, she thought, feeling that familiar pain, and they were playing so nicely together, too. I wonder what went wrong. Silently she prayed, "Don't let him be hurt too much — not again; I can't bear it!" "Ronnie?" Janet called softly. No answer. "Ronnie — what's the matter, honey?" "Nuthin'," came the angry voice. "Just go away and let me alone!" Janet winced at the rebuff but FIRST PRIZE-WINNING STORY decided that it would be best to do as he said, so she picked up the things from the table, the mood for reminiscing and working on books having vanished when the storm cloud in the form of a small boy burst in. Half an hour had gone by when Janet heard Ronnie's door open, and the tear-stained face of her boy appeared. "Those kids gone yet?" he mumbled as he started outside. "Cause I sure don't want 'em around playing cars with me!" And without waiting for an answer, he went out to the familiar dirt pile where he had spent so many hours alone building roads and dugways and playing with his beloved friends — the cars and trucks. Janet let him play while she prepared supper, purposefully keeping busy so that she could remain calm, and when it began to grow dark she was able to affect an almost cheerful quality in her tone as she called, "Hey, Chum, your supper is ready now, okay?" "Okay," he answered simply and began picking up his playthings. During the meal Janet tried to make conversation, talking cheerfully about small things and acting unconcerned, but Ronnie remained silent. 'The dark anger was gone from his brown eyes now, and only the hurt and sadness remained. Finally, Ronnie brought his eyes up from the untouched food on his plate and began hesitantly, "Mom, do you know why I said for you to go away? 'To leave me alone?" "Oh," Janet smiled at him, "I just thought it was because boys want to be alone sometimes. Hmm?" '"No—not 'specially. It was — 19 well, you know what we both said — that it was 'gainst the rule to cry about Daddy!" "Oh? Were you crying about Daddy?" "Well, sort of. You see, we got to talking about going on the Fathers' and Sons' Outing. And then — the kids said that I couldn't go 'cause I didn't have a father. And I told 'em I did, too, have a father but he was up in heaven! And then Tommy said — that — how could my father take me camping if he was up in heaven? And then, I said, that maybe Mr. Owens would take me like he did last year. And then Larry — you know Larry, Mama — he said that my daddy up in heaven wasn't my real daddy anyway 'cause I was adopted. And so — and then — I just told those kids to go home 'cause I was afraid I was about to cry!' And Ronnie's eyes filled again at the remembered injustice. Hew cruel children are, Janet thought, as she sought for the right a to comfort him. "But, sweetheart, you already knew you were adopted. I've told you about that — how your real daddy and mother couldn't take care of you, and how Daddy and I went to get you because we wanted you and needed you so very much." "Uh-huh, I know. But I didn't stop to think about how I might have a real daddy somewhere...." Ronnie was silent, wondering. "I don't think the boys meant to be unkind, dear," said Janet, in the silence. "You see, sometimes it makes people feel important to be able to brag about having something others don't have. Each of those 20 boys has always had his daddy," Janet was