[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Joseph | Author: Groen]
[Joseph the Prophet, Second Prize Poem, Genevieve St. Cyr Groen,]
GENEVIEVE  ST.  CYR  GROEN 
Second  Prize  Poem 
Joseph  the  [Prophet 
Genevieve  ^t.  Cyr  Groen 
We  set  a  fence  of  lilies  where  he  stood 
Dreaming  the  birds  a  song  for  April  skies^ 
Though  henna  leaves  were  red  as  martyrs'  blood. 
Pleasant  children  play  in  a  circled  good. 
Repeating  the  white  dove,  his  gentle  sighs. 
We  set  a  fence  of  lilies  where  he  stood. 
Page  12 
Young,  we  were  fabled  in  that  sheltered  mood 
Of  music  and  the  day  that  never  dies, 
Though  henna  leaves  were  red  as  martyrs'  blood.

PRIZE-WINNING  POEMS  13 
His  words  lovely  as  manna  for  our  food, 
We  heard  no  hunger  in  the  wild  hawks'  cries. 
We  set  a  fence  of  lilies  where  he  stood. 
They  came,  the  birds  of  prey,  their  shadowed  hood 
Hiding  the  hot  intent  deep  in  their  eyes, 
Though  henna  leaves  were  red  as  martyrs'  blood. 
Bird,  song,  and  air  broke  in  a  fiery  flood, 
And  turning  to  banish  our  grief's  surprise, 
We  set  a  fence  of  lilies  where  he  stood. 
Though  henna  leaves  were  red  as  martyrs'  blood. 
Sylvia  Piohst  Young,  Midvale,  Utah,  is  well  known  to  readers  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  Her  stories  and  poems,  several  of  them  prize-winners,  have  appeared  frequently 
in  the  Magazine  since  1947.  She  summarizes  for  us,  her  happy,  busy  life:  "Everyone 
needs  some  kind  of  creativity,  whether  it  is  painting  a  picture,  baking  a  pie,  or  writing 
a  poem.  I  enjoy  the  latter,  but  because  I  am  a  busy  housewife  and  schoolteacher,  too, 
I  find  time  for  writing  in  summer  only,  or  unless  I  burn  the  midnight  oil. 
''Eliza  R.  Snow's  life  and  writings  are  such  a  great  inspiration  to  me  that  I  con- 
sider being  a  winner  in  this  contest  my  greatest  literary  achievement.  My  thanks  to 
The  Relict  Society  Magazine  for  its  encouragement  of  writers. 
"Elder  Reid  W.  Young,  Bishop  of  the  Midvale  Fourth  Ward,  is  my  husband,  and 
we  have  four  wonderful  boys.  They  are  very  active  in  the  Priesthood  and  other  Church 
activities.     I  consider  them  our  greatest  blessing." 
Genevieve  St.  Cyi  Gioen  appears  for  the  first  time  as  a  winner  in  the  Eliza  R.  Snow 
Poem  Contest,  although  readers  of  the  Magazine  are  already  acquainted  with  her  poems 
which  have  been  published  at  intervals  since  1953.  Mrs.  Croen  summarizes  for  us  her 
family  background  and  her  literary  work:  "My  childhood  home  was  Minneapolis, 
Minnesota.  My  college  work  was  done  in  Wisconsin,  Illinois,  and  New  York  City. 
Although  reared  a  de\'Out  Catholic,  I  married  a  member  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  Church, 
Henry  }.  Groen,  Salt  Lake  City  artist,  and  when  our  first  son  Jay  was  two  years  old,  in 
1946,  I  was  baptized  and  confirmed  a  member  of  the  Church.  A  year  later,  when  our 
second  child  Jo-Rene  was  an  infant,  we  were  sealed  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.  We  now 
ha\e  three  more  sons,  Martin,  David,  and  Meru.  I  have  been  active  in  the  auxiliary 
organizations  of  the  Church,  including  theology  class  leader.  Singing  Mothers  chorus, 
and  as  a  visiting  teacher  in  Relief  Society.  At  present  I  am  working  on  the  genealogy 
of  my  family  name,  and  this  year  learned  that  I  am  a  direct  descendant  of  the  persons 
known  as  Evangeline  and  Cabriel,  portrayed  by  Longfellow  in  his  poem  on  the  Acadian 
exiles.  I  am  a  member  of  the  Utah  Poetr}'  Society,  the  League  of  Utah  Writers,  and 
an  annual  member  of  the  Writer's  Conference,  University  of  Utah.