[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial Tell Time Vesta Crawford]
Qjiessings  in  the    ilew    year 
A  S  a  New  Year  approaches,  in  addition  to  silent  resolutions  one  makes 
for  personal  improvement  during  the  coming  year,  it  is  also  a  time  for 
an  expression  of  thankfulness  and  gratitude  to  the  Lord  for  the  innumer- 
able blessings  of  the  past  year. 
At  the  October  General  Relief  Society  Conference,  the  Brethren 
who  spoke  were  united  in  extolling  the  worth  of  Relief  Society  and  the 
need  for  all  Latter-day  Saint  women  to  become  members.  To  those  who 
are  giving  devoted  service,  there  comes  a  realization  that  with  the  service 
the  greatest  good  comes  to  the  sister  for  her  personal  advantage  and 
edification.  Her  faithful  attendance  at  Relief  Society  meetings,  week 
after  week,  increases  her  understanding  of  gospel  principles  which  she  is 
taught  to  apply  in  her  own  life  and  in  the  lives  of  her  children.  She 
receives  counsel  which  guides  her  in  deciding  where  her  duty  lies  in  a 
given  situation. 
The  rearing  of  one's  family  assumes  first  importance  to  a  Relief 
Society  mother,  yet  her  endowments  seem  to  expand  so  that  she  may 
also  give  service  to  Relief  Society.  Her  tender  ministrations  to  the  sick 
and  homebound  enlarge  her  soul  and  bring  feelings  of  personal  satisfac- 
tion, setting  an  invaluable  example  in  loving,  unselfish  service  to  her 
children.  By  fulfilling  requests  made  of  Relief  Society  by  the  Priesthood, 
she  trains  herself  in  the  rendering  of  obedience.  In  helping  to  raise  funds 
to  maintain  Relief  Society  as  a  self-sustaining  unit,  she  is  encouraged  to  be 
industrious  and  thrifty.  A  member,  through  her  training  and  association  in 
Relief  Society,  grows  in  her  ability  to  be  a  better  woman,  wife,  and  mother. 
As  the  days,  weeks,  and  months  of  the  New  Year  roll  on,  let  thanks- 
giving continually  well  up  in  the  heart  of  every  Relief  Society  member, 
thanking  the  Lord  for  the  glorious  privilege  of  belonging  to  and  serving 
in  the  divinely  inspired  Relief  Society. 
The  General  Board  extends  love,  respect,  and  gratitude,  at  the  begin- 
ning of  1961,  to  every  Relief  Society  member  in  every  country  of  the 
world  where  they  are  found.  The  same  spirit  attends  them  in  their  meet- 
ings, in  their  de\'Otions,  and  in  their  labors.  The  same  blessings  are  visit- 
ed upon  the  sisters  of  every  land,  as  they  minister  according  to  the  grand 
key  words  of  the  Society,  ''Said  Jesus,  Te  shall  do  the  work  which  ye  see 
me  do.'  "  May  every  Relief  Society  member  follow  this  admonition  and
