[Vol48 | January 1961 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Song of | Author: Young]
The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her poem "Song of Three Marys." 'The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Genevieve St. Cyr Groen, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Joseph the Prophet." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, for her poem "Pilgrimage to Christmas." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, - second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. 'The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A _ writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Young appears for the fourth time as an award winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Groen is a first-time winner; and 1960 marks the fifth time that Mrs. Roberts has placed in the contest. There were 181 poems submitted in the 1960 contest. Entries were received from twenty-two States of the United States, and from Washington, D. C., with the largest number coming, in order, from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, New York, Washington, Texas, Nevada, Wyoming, and Massachusetts. Entries were received also from Canada, Hawaii, Samoa, Australia, England, and New Zealand. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. 'The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and _ brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are herewith published in this issue of the Magazine. Page 9 Prize-Winning Poems GSliza R Siow Pisum Contest SYLVIA PROBST YOUNG First Prize Poem Song of Shree Mlarys (A Sonnet Sequence) Sylvia Probst Young Mary, The Mother And while a wonder star shone from above, You watched beside the little manger bed; Your eyes aglow with tender mother love, You marked the petal cheek — the wee, fair head You were the first to guide his eager feet — With quiet pride you watched as he would share With any child that played along the street. When day was done you knelt with him in prayer; Page 10 PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 11 You knew his world — each singing brook and flower; His sudden laughter, and his quick embrace; In work or play, you shared a golden hour When boyhood's light was glowing in his face Oh, tender Mary, never was another. So heaven-blessed as you whom he called Mother. Mary of Bethany Within your gracious home the Lord found rest, And quiet peace, away from pressing care — With you he was an ever welcome guest, And always you would bid him linger there. While Martha, in her quick solicitude, Looked to his comfort, but you wanted first To hear his word, for you it was the food, The drink, for which your hungering soul had thirst. He was your teacher and your friend; you knew His calm simplicity, his gentle ways; How precious was the time he spent with you — A crowning joy to brighten all your days. You saw him raise young Lazarus'from the dead — Your gift was spikenard — his, living bread. — Mary Magdalene When morning light was breaking through the gloom, When spring's new green had touched each bush and tree, You came with those who loved him to the tomb, With those who followed him to Calvary. You who had known the dear Lord's healing hand, The many, kindly ways his love was shown; Bowed in your grief, how could you understand The angel's word? — You tarried there alone, Thinking the gardener talked to you, but when Your name was softly spoken, your heart cried With gladness, for you knew the Savior, then, The resurrected Lord — the Sanctified. Oh, Magdalene, the wonder of that dawn Would light your life when earthly joys were gone. HK AK OK NE OK 3 Three Marys, highly favored of the Lord — Who walked with him and gloried in his word. Second Prize Poem GYoseph the Prophet Genevieve St. Cyr Groen We set a fence of lilies where he stood Dreaming the birds a song for April skies, Though henna leaves were red as martyrs' blood. Pleasant children play in a circled good. Repeating the white dove, his gentle sighs, We set a fence of lilies where he stood. Young, we were fabled in that sheltered mood Of music and the day that never dies, Though henna leaves were red as martyrs' blood. Page 12 PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 13 His words lovely as manna for our food, We heard no hunger in the wild hawks' cries. We set a fence of lilies where he stood. They came, the birds of prey, their shadowed hood Hiding the hot intent deep in their eyes, Though henna leaves were red as martyrs' blood. Bird, song, and air broke in a fiery flood, And turning to banish our grief's surprise, We set a fence of lilies where he stood, Though henna leaves were red as martyrs' blood. Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, is well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. Her stories and poems, several of them prize-winners, have appeared frequently in the Magazine since 1947. She summarizes for us, her happy, busy life: "Everyone needs some kind of creativity, whether it is painting a picture, baking a pie, or writing a poem. I enjoy the latter, but because I am a busy housewife and schoolteacher, too, I find time for writing in summer only, or unless I burn the midnight oil. "Eliza R. Snow's life and writings are such a great inspiration to me that I consider being a winner in this contest my greatest literary achievement. My thanks to The Rehet Society Magazine for its encouragement of writers. "Elder Reid W. Young, Bishop of the Midvale Fourth Ward, is my husband, and we have four wonderful boys. They are very active in the Priesthood and other Church activities. I consider them our greatest blessing." Genevieve St. Cvr Groen appears for the first time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, although readers of the Magazine are already acquainted with her poems which have been published at intervals since 1953. Mrs. Groen summarizes for us her family background and her literary work: 'My childhood home was Minneapolis, Minnesota. My college work was done in Wisconsin, Illinois, and New York City. Although reared a devout Catholic, I married a member of the Latter-day Saints Church, Henry J. Groen, Salt Lake City artist, and when our first son Jay was two years old, in 1946, I was baptized and confirmed a member of the Church. A year later, when our second child Jo-Rene was an infant, we were sealed in the Salt Lake Temple. We now have three more sons, Martin, David, and Meru. I have been active in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, including theology class leader, Singing Mothers chorus, and as a visiting teacher in Relief Society. At present I am working on the genealogy of my family name, and this year learned that I am a direct descendant of the persons known as Evangeline and Gabriel, portrayed by Longfellow in his poem on the Acadian exiles. I am a member of the Utah Poetry Society, the League of Utah Writers, and an annual member of the Writer's Conference, University of Utah. Page 14 DOROTHY J. ROBERTS Third Prize Poem Pilgrimage to Chasen Dorothy ]. Roberts Peace is warmth and sound of pigeons, pining, And silhouette of camels weaving by. I have fanned old ashes into ember And overhead a star grows in the sky. By rose or thorn the pilgrim paths return And I will take the first, as once before, Content to walk the dimly cloistered land And lay no sole to sink beyond the shore. For once, while he walked calmly, sea's horizon, As Peter, sinking, I implored his name, Reaching for help of parable and promise; I could not walk the water till he came. Upon that path I paced meridian. The bitter thorn was doubt, a weapon then, Yet as the nailed act of destruction, doubt But crucified him into life again. PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 5 Now I have welded weapon into plowshare, That, grain he savored on a Sabbath meal, Nourish the flesh of speech; I have known famine More vast than earthly appetite can feel. Treading the rose's path of faith and wonder, I find his healing hand held out to save, His robe trailing the crested mount forever, His sandaled signature upon the wave. > o Dorothy J. Roberts' poems, many of them prize winners and frontispiece features, have appeared frequently in the Magazine since 1941. In the following sketch, Mrs. Roberts summarizes a number of experiences which have enriched her life: "One of my most rewarding roles through the years has been that of neighborhood bard, composing verses for family and social occasions. Often, it is a surprise and a joy to find that words one has written open avenues of rewarding exchange with the lives and hearts of others. In this way I have received wisdom, beauty, and compassion from both writers and nonwriters. "I feel honored to receive an award in this year's Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest — a loved and looked-forward-to tradition and a highlight of the months. This summer I received third place in the poetry division of the Utah State Fine Arts Contest, and a sixth grandchild. These also brought proud and happy moments to my beloved husband L. Paul Roberts and myself." Ay hte rglow Nancy M. Armstrong HE: colorful pink afterglow sparkled like frosted jewels on the snowy east mountains, left there by the last rays of the setting sun. Many experiences in life leave just such a rich, warm afterglow: the happiness of friendship, the bliss of achievement long worked for, a favorite book many times reread, the memory of one much loved, though long departed, days amid the awesome beauty of God's creations, moments of real understanding shared with one's husband. 'The deep, enduring values of life — love of home — love of family — love of friends — love of God — cast a roseate afterglow that permeates the whole of living.