VOL. XVI MARCH, 1929 No. 3
EDITORIAL
Women and Peace
If women have been and still are interested in prohibition, they are still more interested in the abolition of war and the establishment of peace. Since the beginning of December, 1928, such names as Carrie Chapman Catt and Jane Addams have been very much to the fore because of their efforts to abolish war and establish peace.
On January 15th a conference delegation met to discuss the problem of national armament reduction; as part of their program they marched upon the capitol at Washington and presented to Senators ten thousand resolutions of women's organizations, asking that they endorse the Briand-Kellogg antiwar treaty. This move was in support of the pact ratification. Mrs. Catt stated that the national feeling was squarely behind the treaty. She said that over ten thousand meetings held in forty-eight states had made this fact obvious.
Following the ratification of the Briand-Kellogg treaty we have an appeal from the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. At present they are asking in vigorous terms that the cruiser bill be defeated. These people contend that the building of fifteen more cruisers will make the treaty a sham and a hypocritical trick. If the bill is defeated, they believe we shall then start on the road of the new era which the Briand-Kellogg treaty has given the world; but if we build the fifteen cruisers, we shall renew the old race in armament and probably continue to perpetuate the archaic and wicked war system of the past.
In this editorial we are not arguing any case. We are merely seeking to present the fact that women in the United States are intensely interested in peace and will stand squarely behind any program for peace that appears feasible. It is natural that women should do this; for, as Mrs. Catt has pointed out in more than one of her public addresses, all the other struggles that women have made are lost if they are to be deluged in war, whose destructive agencies can mean nothing less than the sacrifice of civilization and the human race.
A tribute to Miss Jane Addams by Grace Hoffman White commends her attitude in this matter. It reads:
Though she has felt and mourned our human woes, She still holds laughter as a gift of God That turns the blade of those that would be foes And lives to know a time when wars shall cease; Her voice calls to the world "shake off the sod And know the love that is constructive peace."
Raffling and Games of Chance
As the Relief Society, more than any other organization in the Church, has interested itself in bazaars and as it is charged with the responsibility of meeting people's wants in many directions, and as it does seek means in various ways to meet these responsibilities, we wish to present a statement from the Presiding Bishops of the Church, concurred in by the General Board of the Relief Society, on raffling and games of chance. It has come to the knowledge of the General Board that sometimes wards have exhibited quilts to be raffled during a Sunday Sacrament meeting. Because of this report and others indicating that raffling and games of chance are being indulged in, we are publishing a statement that we think should make our attitude entirely clear.
"RAFFLING, GAMES OF CHANCE, ETC.
"Reports have been received from time to time that, in some instances, at ward fairs and other ward entertainments, raffling and other games of chance have been conducted. The argument used in favor of these contests is that such games are common in the business world and that the purpose for which they are employed is a worthy one.
"In order, however, that the position of the Church may be clear, we are quoting herewith from instructions given by President Joseph F. Smith and by President Heber J. Grant, which expresses the attitude of the church authorities. President Smith said, 'Raffling is a game of chance, and hence leads to gambling.' For that reason, if for no other, it should not be encouraged among the young people of the Church. President Young declared raffling to be a modified name of gambling and said that 'as Latter-day Saints we cannot afford to sacrifice moral principles to financial gain,' and advised the sisters, through the Woman's Exponent not to raffle. President Lorenzo Snow endorsed and approved of these statements and I have often expressed my unqualified disapproval of raffling. President Grant says, 'I have always understood that our people were advised to raise their money for charitable and other purposes without indulging in raffling, where chances are sold. There is no objection to creating competition in various ways in ward entertainments in order to raise money, but the selling of chances on any article has been discouraged.'
"The spirit of gambling or taking chances for money is so rampant in the world at the present time that the moderating influence and example of the Church should be exercised in behalf of our young people toward resisting such temptations. We urge that the spirit of these instructions be followed in all ward entertainments, and that proper advice in the same direction be given all members of the Church."