Messages from the Wives of the General Authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints
EIGHTY SIX years is a long time to live in this world, but I still have much to enjoy and much to profit by. I give my Heavenly Father all praise and all thanks for what He has given to me. When I sit and meditate and look into the future I know what I hope for will come from Him. My constant prayer is that my sisters, both in and out of the Church, may be sustained in these trying times and given the assurance that the schemes of men will never overcome the will of God. In His own due time all will come right.  Augusta Winters Grant (Mrs. Heber J. Grant)
OUR Gospel offers such a wealth of blessings to its members, that to ask oneself the question which blessing has proved the most helpful would be a difficult one to answer. Looking back over my life, I feel I can sincerely say that the training I received in Relief Society work has proved the most useful to me. This embraces every phase of woman's life so necessary for the home and motherhood. The charity work gives spiritual uplift; each weekly lesson broadens her intellectually; the work day offers its members useful hints for the home. Thank God for this great organization.  Luacine Savage Clark (Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr.)
MY experience has taught me that a mother's control over a child is lost or gained during the first few years of its life. Many a young mother with a smattering of psychology, who thinks correction will ruin her children's will power, lets them follow their own desires whether wise or unwise. Proper guidance in youth will prevent undesirable tendencies and encourage confidences in later life. Wise direction is not arbitrary, but kind and firm. Children should follow their own desires so long as these desires do not prompt them to be destructive, do not impose upon others, or do not injure the children's characters.  Ray Riggs McKay (Mrs. David O. McKay)
Page 365
-JULY 1943
SOME of the blessings for which I desire to be duly grateful are: good and faithful parents, a kind and affectionate husband, a comfortable and happy home, and a large family who are a credit to their forebears and to the Church. These I regard as some of the most choice fruits of the Gospel, more than compensation for a life of sacrifice and service to the Church and to mankind.  Alice Robinson Richards (Mrs. George F. Richards)
AT the time of the organization of the Relief Society in March 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith said if the sisters would live up to their privileges, "the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." While the angels in heaven may not be seen, yet we may be sure they are associated with the sisters in the great work assigned to them by revelation, which is the work of angels of mercy to the afflicted and oppressed.  Jessie Evans Smith (Mrs. Joseph Fielding Smith)
"Let us do our work as well, Both the unseen and the seen: Make the house where Gods may dwell, Beautiful, entire, and clean."  "The Builders," Longfellow  Irene Merrill Richards (Mrs. Stephen L Richards)
FORTUNATE is the individual who has learned to seek the Lord in secret prayer, when hearts may be freely unburdened and solace and strength received. This is a precious privilege denied to no one. The Savior says: "Enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret, and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly." (Matthew 6:6)  Amy Brown Lyman (Mrs. Richard R. Lyman)
THERE is one thought I am sure that gives joy to all who work actively in Relief Society: through this organization we are helping fulfill the righteous purposes of our Father regarding the welfare of His children on earth. It is not enough to love Him, for love may be passive; to make it real we must try to uplift our neighbors as well as ourselves. Relief Society gives us that opportunity.  Leah Dunford Widtsoe (Mrs. John A. Widtsoe)
"I am come that they might have life and that they might have it more abundantly." The Relief Society work adds a broad, deep understanding of these wonderful words of the Savior. This organization gives service which finds sweet expression in ministering to the sick, and providing means to clothe the poor, aid the sightless, and straighten the limbs of the crippled. Truly because of Christ's teachings life more abundantly has come to many souls.  Grace Pack Callis (Mrs. Charles A. Callis)
I HAVE enjoyed my musical career as only one who really loves music could. But, if I were asked to exchange for fame my happy home life with my parents and later my beloved husband and our fine sons, I would not. There are only three worth-while things in life the Gospel and all it offers us here and hereafter, children, and our loved ones. To me, the so-called "fine things of life" are secondary.  Lucy Gates Bowen (Mrs. Albert E. Bowen)
HOW glorious to be born a woman, although it is not an easy task to fill all the requirements of wife and mother! A woman must learn to take the bitter with the sweet and keep on smiling. To be blessed with children who are perfect in body and mind, to have them desirous of an education, to see them grow up to be good Latter-day Saints, and finally good American citizens is a direct answer to a mother's prayer.  Winnifred Saville Cannon (Mrs. Sylvester Q. Cannon)
WIVES OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES 367
-JULY 1943
TO realize our greatest blessings as Church members, we must ever strive, with an eye single to the glory of God, for the goal of eternal life. The Master has shown us, by His example in overcoming all things, the way to this eternal goal. So likewise may we, if we are obedient to the laws of the Gospel, overcome all things and be granted a place in our Father's Kingdom.  Fern Tanner Lee (Mrs. Harold B. Lee)
ASSOCIATION with women in Relief Society strengthens and stimulates one to do and be her best. Perhaps this is because we all think of it as a unique society established by a prophet, and only our best thoughts and loftiest ideas are worthy of such a divinely inspired organization. I truly appreciate the opportunity of belonging to and working in the Relief Society.  Ida Jensen Romney (Mrs. Marion G. Romney)
IN 1939, I saw the women of Europe accept war without enthusiasm, but with resolution and fortitude. Now American women face the same grim tragedy with equal courage. Women have always shared in war's heartache and sacrifice, but not in the great responsibility of keeping the peace. Surely we can contribute by educating our children to safeguard liberty and justice.  Fawn Brimhall McKay (Mrs. Thomas E. McKay)
IN these perilous times it is a source of comfort to all Latter-day Saint women to feel the power of the Church, and to share in its blessings.  Edith Grant Young (Mrs. Clifford E. Young)
MY life has been made full by the opportunities our Church has given me to serve my fellow man. I know that through obedience to the Gospel, happiness and success may be enjoyed by all. I am grateful for our Church and its leadership.  Florence Gay Smith (Mrs. Nicholas G. Smith)
ALL my life I have been greatly blessed. My parents were ever watchful to make sure I was safe and in good places. They provided me with opportunities for education and self-improvement. I have many dear friends who fill my life with joy. My husband and children make my life rich and full, far beyond what I deserve. I pray that I may live to be worthy of my blessings.  Ruth Pingree Smith (Wife of Patriarch Joseph F. Smith)
"Men pass away, but people abide. See that ye hold fast the heritage we leave you. Yea, and teach your children its value, that never in the coming centuries their hearts may fail them, or their hands grow weak. Hitherto, we have been too much afraid. Henceforth, we will fear only God." Sir Francis Drake.  Valeria Brinton Young (Mrs. Levi Edgar Young)
RELIEF SOCIETY is a very necessary part of my life. My testimony is that it has made the lives of the Maoris, Hawaiian, Samoans, and Mexicans among whom I have lived, better. No woman can devote herself to Relief Society work without becoming more friendly, getting a better knowledge of the Gospel, learning how to be a better wife, mother, and citizen, and enriching her life in the world of literature.  Vilate Romney Ivins (Mrs. Antoine R. Ivins)
WIVES OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES 369
-JULY 1943
I AM very happy to have this opportunity to express my appreciation of the Relief Society work as carried on by the women of our Church. My many years of intimate association with the good sisters of the Central States Mission has brought this organization close to my heart, and I say to all workers, "God bless you in your endeavors to alleviate distress and to make happier and richer, the lives of women everywhere."  Charlotte Towles Bennion (Mrs. Samuel O. Bennion)
MEMBERSHIP in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a precious privilege. In these days of fluctuating values, the way of life outlined by the principles and ordinances of the Gospel rises to new heights. When the weaknesses of man-made systems are so apparent, the strength and majesty of God's plan are more clearly revealed. To humbly and faithfully assist in forwarding that plan is the supreme desire of every true Latter-day Saint woman.  Rachel Grant Taylor (Mrs. John H. Taylor)
IT is wonderful to be alive today! Truly there is much to harass the heart and mind of one, but the glory of God is evidenced everywhere. In my early childhood mother taught me the word of God. I still cherish the following from Deuteronomy: "Be strong and of good courage, fear not nor be afraid; for the Lord thy God, He it is that doth go with thee; He will not fail thee, nor forsake thee."  Addie Eldredge Hardy (Mrs. Rufus K. Hardy)
THE women of this Church have always lived courageously in times of trouble. Their achievements, in face of unspeakable hardships, have become a symbol of heroic womanhood. Whether, in this present hour, we are mothers sorrowing in the absence of loved ones, or young mothers guiding our children in the early years of life, we must be, as were those before us, women of high character, abiding faith, and undeviating principle.  Alice Thornley Evans (Mrs. Richard L. Evans)
"The visions and blessings of old are returning And angels are coming to visit the earth."
The charter members of the Relief Society sang this hymn at their first meeting. Truly our sisters are angels of mercy, sharing, comforting, feeding the hungry, and caring for the sick and helpless. Their service has disseminated culture and made the world happier and better. It's a high privilege to be a member of the Relief Society. May the Lord continue to bless all members.  Ida Murdock Kirkham (Mrs. Oscar A. Kirkham)
MY dear sisters: In your deep spirituality we see mirrored the beauty of Sarah, the strength of Hannah, and the purity of "Mary of Old." "Strength and honor are your clothing" and your children "rise up and call you blessed." You are finding peace and comfort in the promise of an angel, "Nothing is impossible with the Lord"; and you are replying in love and faith, "My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit hath rejoiced in Jesus my Savior."  Ina Ashton Richards (Mrs. LeGrand Richards)
MY Recipe for Happiness: Cupfuls of thoughtfulness, a good measure of humility, A sprinkling of sunshine, a pinch of good humor, Stir well with self-forgetfulness; season with intelligence and understanding; Warm thoroughly with the spirit of the Gospel; share with generous portions to all.  Rae Jeremy Ashton (Mrs. Marvin O. Ashton)
OPPORTUNITIES that come from the privilege of being a member of this Church bring happiness and development. Everyone can work, regardless of time, ability, or inclinations. I always want to remember that our real objective in this life is to so progress and develop that we may win eternal life in the Celestial Kingdom of our Heavenly Father. Sincere activity in the Church will help us accomplish this to our blessing and satisfaction.  Madeline Bitner Wirthlin (Mrs. Joseph L. Wirthlin)
WIVES OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES 371
The "Mormon" Woman
Elder John A. Widtsoe Member of the Council of the Twelve
"WITHOUT the wonderful work of the women, I realize that the Church would have been a failure." So President Heber J. Grant has declared. (Gospel Standards, p. 150.) And, Paul the Apostle, speaking in an earlier day said that "neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord." (I Corinthians 11:11.) This notable statement implies that woman has done her work well; that she bears joint responsibility with the man in establishing the Kingdom of God; and, that the work will fail unless both do their duty.
In conformity with this doctrine, full equality has been provided in the Church between man and woman. They are equal in opportunity, privilege, and rights. They have a common destiny, which as free agents they may attain or lose through their own actions. This makes individuals of man and woman persons with the right of free agency, with the power of individual decision, with individual opportunity of everlasting joy for whom all the ordinances of the Gospel are available alike, and whose own actions throughout the eternities, with the loving aid of the Father, will determine individual achievement.
There can be no question in the Church about man's rights versus woman's rights. They have the same rights. The restored Gospel has brushed
Page 372
aside the age-old controversy over woman's rights. It has refused to fetter woman and make her, as in the past, little more than man's goods and chattels. It has given her full rights of suffrage and property ownership. It recognizes her equal mental powers with those of man; and her right to use her inborn talents to the full. It has placed her by the side of man, not behind him, nor in front of him, thus certifying to her complete emancipation, without limitation, from unlawful subjection. She has been made to understand that the Lord loves His daughters as completely as His sons, and the promised blessings are the same for both.
This equality does not ignore the natural differences between man and woman. Woman is the child bearer and child rearer. To this glorious function she gives a large part of her life. The man is the provider of the necessities and comforts of the family. This does not reduce woman to a dependent. Freed from family and household cares, she could as well probably earn the living for the family. It is rather a cooperative enterprise based upon a divinely ordained division of labor for forming, maintaining, and protecting the unit of society, known as the family. Husband and wife who conform to natural law and beget and rear children are performing labors of equal importance. Each gains both freedom and power from such family life. One
THE "MORMON" WOMAN
cannot look down upon the other. Both have the right as time and strength permit to exercise their talents as they may desire. Whenever these natural functions are set aside, frustration and defeat in life follow.
The wise recognition of the functional differences between husband and wife appears in the use of the Priesthood. The family must have organization. The man with his larger freedom to move about, is by divine decree the head or presiding officer or spokesman of the family. To him is committed the Priesthood, of fundamental need in Gospel life. But the benefits and blessings of the Priesthood thus conferred are shared by the wife and, as needed, by every member of the family. Indeed, Priesthood is first for the family, then for others if the man be called into official service. There is no lack of equality there; it is a manner of organization. The possession of the Priesthood does not indicate in any sense that man is superior to woman, but that he has a specific calling in Church government of which woman is relieved.
In the ordinances of the Priesthood man and woman share alike. The temple doors are open to every faithful member of the Church. And, it is to be noted that the highest blessings therein available are only conferred upon a man and a woman, husband and wife, jointly. Neither can receive them alone. In the Church of Christ, woman is not an adjunct to, but an equal partner with man.
The men of the Church have understood and respected the appointed place of woman in the plan of human salvation. That is much to their credit. They who have been and
373
are blinded by ancient traditions are few in number. In the Mormon community woman is free and honored. If she accepts gladly the glorious gift of motherhood, she may use whatever time and strength remain in the exercise of her talents as she may desire. She is placed under no limitations. Instead she is encouraged to use her available time in useful pursuits comporting with her natural gifts, her native endowment. The privilege of self-expression belongs to her as to all. She may enter industry, education, the professions, every worth-while pursuit, with the good will of all. And, because of her responsibilities as a rearer of the coming race, she should be carefully, widely, and wisely trained for this important part of her mission in life.
THE women of Mormonism have shown themselves worthy of this equality. They have accepted the responsibilities as well as the joys of individual freedom. Side by side with their husbands they have built the Kingdom of God. It has been a joint, a cooperative effort. President Grant spoke truly in his praise of woman's work in behalf of the restored Gospel.
In the toilsome building of the Church, in the face of unspeakable persecution and hardship, woman did not flinch. She met the required sacrifices with a courage born of sublime faith. She looked heavenward when the husband was bowed down in apparent defeat. She brought heaven down to earth, and the family went on with renewed assurance of victory. This she did though confined with children and household
374
cares, without the exhilaration of man's battle in the open field.
The story of the sacrifices of the Church is yet to be told. Perhaps it beggars the pen. But one thing may be said: Woman faced the tribulations without hesitation; and perhaps she accepted the heavier part. She met with high-flung disdain the horrors of the Missouri persecutions. She crossed the frozen Missouri towards the unknown wilderness without looking back at her happy Nauvoo home from which she had been driven. On the westward trail, sheltered thinly in a wagon box from the raging blizzard, she bore her children. She toiled undismayed across the dreary desert to find a hoped-for safe haven in distant mountain valleys. With tearful eyes, but with an unquenchable faith in the unfolding of God's eternal plan, she saw her child or husband laid away in a soon-to-be obliterated grave by the desert trail. With uncomplaining fortitude she shouldered her part of the burden of conquering the wilderness, of making the desert blossom as the rose. It was she who planted flowers around the log or adobe hut, which as they blossomed, lifted the souls of a driven but unconquered people, to whom beauty was a part of their faith.
Nor was the pioneer woman the only one who sacrificed. Many a woman elsewhere recognized the sweet voice of the Gospel, and because of her faith was driven from homes and loved ones. With a longing akin to agony in her faraway mountain home to which she had gathered, she awaited the word of love, which never came, from father and mother, brother and sister, who-JULY 1943
could not, or would not see the truth. But, in the midst of tribulation there was a singing within her heart, for she had found the truth.