Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MOST of the world's inhabitants hate war. Man's cupidity causes it. Man's stupidity permits it. All suffer its tragic consequences. Fortunately, however, some good comes of war. Like a refiner's fire, frequently it burns out the dross of human selfishness, leaving gold ingots of devotion, nobility, heroism. A task worthy of every woman's consecration is to carry into the post-war world virtues learned through today's vicissitudes, such as: the joy of having children (last year's birthrate in America doubled that of 1941, and this year's will be higher); the value of marriage and a home (half the girls in one war production plant admit they are hoping and saving for a home); the steadying power of physical work; the experiences of budgeting; the gratifications of practicing thrift; and the immense economy of cooperation, in home, community, national, and international life. War teaches us the comfort of faith in God; the necessity of human brotherhood; the fact that suffering can make us a little more God-like in comprehension. These are lessons to remember. MISS SHARLOT HALL, 72, Arizona poet of distinction, whose verse interprets western life, died April 9. CRY HAVOC, Allan Kenward's moving stage drama of American girl volunteer nurses huddled in a shelter in Bataan, carrying on the Page 396 eek a, ul N humor and heroism to their tragic doom is to be filmed. The cast is composed entirely of women. MIDWIFERY was one of the important and interesting phases of early Mormon colonization. Mrs. Claire W. Noall, by request, did exhaustive research and wrote a 30,000 word article, "Mormon Midwives," for the Utah State Historical Quarterly, 1942 volume. It has elicited favorable comment from physicians, psychologists, lawyers, historians, and authors principally men in various parts of America. Incidentally, the mother of Socrates, great Greek philosopher, was a midwife almost 500 B. C. DOCTORS R. A. Hingson and W.   B. Edwards (Americans) have devised a new technique for painless childbirth, entirely successful, apparently, and without the dangers of the former methods. THE Woman's Safety Council of Salt Lake City, only all-woman organization affiliated with the National Safety Council, in 1942 distributed 100 awards to careful women drivers, the first going to Miss Jean Home, one of Salt Lake's first women motorists, who has driven 1,000,000 miles without accident. Under Mrs. Laura M. Clark, president, and Mrs. W. T. Runzler, head of service department, the Council cooperates with civic and educational agencies in promoting public and traffic safety programs. EDITORIAL VOL. 30 JUNE-JULY 1943 NOS. 6 and 7 To Our "Father! to God Himself we cannot give a holier name."  Wordsworth TWO of the most hallowed words in any language are "father" and "mother," and around these names are associated memories among the most precious of this life. Of late years it has become customary to pay special honor to our mothers on the second Sunday in May, and