Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. The regular price of The Modern Reader's 442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE-JULY 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT Bible is $2.75; price to Relief Society workers, $2.25 postpaid. Regular price of The Bible Designed to Be Read as Living Literature, by Bates, is $3.75; price to Relief Society workers is $2.75 postpaid. Moulton, Dr. R. G., Introduction to the Literature of the Bible. For illuminat'ng sidelights on Bible Literature this little book will add further interest to the work. It is now out of print, but may be found in public, home, or school libraries. 443 General Reference: Smith, Alphonso, What Literature Can Do for Me Another small and inexpensive book which will be found inspirational to students of literature just for general reading. It is also now out of print but may be found in public, home, or school libraries. Note: Other books may be suggested as the course is developed, and as they are found of especial help in forwarding the central purpose of bringing those who take the course closer to the Bible. EXCERPTS FROM LETTER OF FIRST PRESIDENCY The following excerpts from a letter written by the First Presidency of the Church, December 29, 1942, in reply to a question regarding some of the headnotes which appear in books in which Bible content is arranged in literary form, are published herewith, as it is believed they will prove helpful to literature class leaders in the presentation of their lessons: "It may, in the first place, be observed that quite obviously these headnotes are not a part of the Bible itself, and are merely the views of Mr. Moulton, [Mr. Bates] or others, regarding the books of the Bible. These headnotes are not part of the Bible and, of course, our people should understand that such is the fact. "With reference to the attitude of the Church toward the Bible, we call your attention to the Eighth Article of Faith which reads: We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated correctly; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the: word of God.. The Church itself accepts the Bible, King James version, as the word of God to men, "as far as it is translated correctly.' In some places it records history and in other cases it records revelations and the teachings of the Lord to men. In some places the history may be told in the form of drama or of a highly artistic story; in other places the revelations of the Lord are given in poetic expressions of the very highest excellence. But the Bible is, as the Prophet declared when he wrote the Articles of Faith, the word of God. "Perhaps no other book ever written has been subjected to the fierce criticism under which the Bible has been brought. This is quite natural because it stands to the world as the word of God. "We feel that... Sisters of the Relief Society should not be at all disturbed by these Moulton [or Bates] headnotes which seem to be giving them concern." 444 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE-JULY 1943 Lesson | The Bible Story (Tuesday, October 19, 1943) [XN the opening chapter of Genesis will be found the "Story of Creation." Recast slightly from the chapter and verse arrangement in which it commonly appears, part of this rare story reads: In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light: and there was light. And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness. And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day. And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so. And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and morning were the second day. And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together in one place, and let the dry land appear; and it was so. And God called the dry land earth; and the gathering together of the waters he called seas: and God saw that it was good. And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding seed which was in itself, after its kind: and God saw that it was good. And the evening and the morning were the third day. Step by step the "Story of Creation" goes forward in natural sequence the placing of lights in the heavens to divide the day from the night, to set the seasons and the years, and "to give light upon the earth"  the creating of fish and fowl and animal life; then  God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness.... So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea and the fowl of the air and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.... And the evening and the morning were the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them, and on the seventh day God ended the work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all the work he had made. And God blessed the seventh day and hallowed it.... Certain literary qualities which mark this beginning story of the Bible are characteristic of Biblical stories. First, it moves with simple directness, step by step in an upclimb to the conclusion. Setond, it is clear and concrete in language, with vivid words and phrases at times to light the story. Observe, for instance, "The earth was without form and void"  "darkness was upon the face of the deep" "'and God blessed the seventh day and hallowed it." Third, its sentences are musical. Read them aloud thoughtfully; they move with natural cadence. "Echo lines," such as "And the evening and the morning were the first day," help not only to bind the parts of the story together, but add a rhythmic charm. LESSON DEPARTMENT Fourth, spiritual life-lessons are impressed with such stirring, never-tobe-forgotten expressions as: 'God said, Let there be light: and there was light" "God created man in his own image, and in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them." Fifth, Bible stories do not yield all their riches with one reading. Like other great classic stories, they must be reread. While they are so simple in language and form that even a little child can gain something from hearing them, still one must grow up with these stories to catch their inner meaning, their full spiritual significance. One caution here: Do not expect every Bible story to bring the glow of interest that may come from the "Story of Creation," or from some other that you have learned to love. Certain of these stories are difficult even for grownups to understand and appreciate. President Joseph F. Smith once voiced the thought that our Gospel unfolds itself to the seeking soul gradually; let us enjoy those things in it we can appreciate, and God will open further truth for us. This fine advice applies helpfully to our study of the stories of the Bible. Now shall we turn to another of these stories, one which has brought | delight to young and old for ages  the "Story of Joseph and His Brethren?" Here 'is a classic tale from the Bible that has won the highest of praise from eminent writers. Mark Twain once expressed his appreciation with words that said in effect that the story of Joseph is one of the greatest short stories ever written. By reading carefully this masterpiece in story writing, we shall discover in it other classic qualities. Like 445 the "Story of Creation," it moves forward step by step with rising interest. Observe, for example, how each sentence carries on the story from its beginning (Genesis 37:3)  Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colors. And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him and could not speak peaceably unto him. And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it to his brethren: and they hated him yet the more. And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed: For, behold, we were binding sheaves in a field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf. And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words. Here, with a few swift strokes we have the basis of the plot round which the story is developed. Jealousy and envy, provoked by an old man's devotion to a son sent to cheer his declining years, bring the selling of the boy into slavery, and the deception that follows to explain away the lad's disappearance. Jacob's grief is assuaged somewhat by his devotion to an even younger son, Benjamin all of which later adds to the developing drama of family life in Old Canaan. Note, as you read the story, the local color: shepherds tending their flocks in the hills; the dangers from wild beasts; a wandering band of Ishmaelites following the old trail that still leads through Canaan into Egypt; a coat of many colors, suggestive of the rich clothing of the 446 orient; "camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh." Note, too, as you did in the "Story of Creation," the choice words and other life-giving expressions that add vividness; for example, "conspired against him"; "cast him into this pit"; "stript Joesph out of his coat"; "And Jacob rent his clothes." __ Omitting Chapter 38, which is not part of the story of Joseph, continue with Chapter 39, which portrays his testing experiences in the home of Potipher. Lessons of spiritual import are concretely impressed in the youth's resistance to temptation, his clean and prayerful living. Finally comes his triumphal rise from prison to high office in the kingdom. Here is the beginning of the fulfillment of his boyhood dream. From the story-telling viewpoint, it is one of the "literary surprises" that adds interest. Within these recent testing years, many folk have turned instinctively to the story of Joseph for an example of inspired statesmanship in providing for the welfare of a nation. Our own people will find in it something to brace their own faith in our leaders today. To turn again to the story: One further point to remember is the upclimb of interest in the developing tale. This climatic effect is clearly illustrated in the treatment by Joseph of his brethren. They are given the grain for which they came; and strangely, on returning home, they find the money they paid in their sacks. One admonition also is given: They must not return for more unless they bring with them their youngest brother Benjamin. After- -wards, when famine again threatens, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE-JULY 1943 they persuade their father to let Benjamin go with them. Joseph, though deeply affected at the meeting with his own young brother, still withholds revealing himself. And while he entertains his brethren, he commands the steward of his house, saying (Genesis 44:1-13)  Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth. And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word Joseph had spoken. As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses. And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good? Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he divineth? Ye have done evil in so doing. And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words. And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing: Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold? With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord's bondmen. And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: he with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless. Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack. And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city. Following this dramatic incident, related with such simple yet telling LESSON DEPARTMENT effect, comes the revealing of Joseph to his brethren. It is a fulfillment of the dreams God gave him as visions in his boyhood. There are tears of joy and forgiveness at this revelation of God's working in mysterious ways his wonders to perform. Later comes the "happy ending" of a great story when the father is reunited with nis long-lost son, and Israel is established in a land of peace and plenty until another crisis arises. Suggestions for Discussion and Activities 1. Give in their order (without referring to your text) the six steps of creation as revealed in the first chapter of Genesis. What is the "echo line" that helps to impress these steps and which gives them unity? 2. Read aloud thoughtfully the first chapter and first three verses of the second chapter of Genesis, listening to the smoothly flowing language with which the "Story of Creation" is unfolded. What composer caught the spirit of this story and its music, and created a great oratorio based on it? 3. What eminent English poet took from the "Story of Creation" in Genesis the theme for one of the greatest of epics? Name the epic. 4. Review briefly the "Story of Joseph" from these literary viewpoints: (a) its central plot; (b) outstanding characters; (c) story movement; (d) language vividness; (e) local color (deal 447 here with the people and customs and life activities portrayed). What is one impressive life lesson you find concretely presented in the "Story of Joseph"? What eminent author has in recent years paid rare tribute to this Bible story by using rich matetials suggested by it in a novel of challenging interest? 5. What are some of the characteristics of the Bible story? Name two or more, and be prepared to illustrate the characteristics named with references from any one of the tollowing stories, or from some other Bible story which is a favorite with you: "Story of the Offering of Isaac'' (Genesis 22); "Story of the Wooing of Rebekah" (Genesis 24); "Story of the Birth and Saving of Moses' | E: xodus, Chapters 1 and 2; "Story of the Spies and Woman of Jericho" (Joshua 2); "Story of the Birth of Samuel" (I Samuel, Chapter 1); "Story of Solomon and the Two Mothiers" (I Kings 3:16-28); "Story of Elijah and the Widow's Son" (I Kings, Chapter 17); "Story of Daniel and the King's Meat" (Daniel, Chapter 1). In reading the Bible, let its stories tell themselves. If you share them with your children or others, through voicing their musical language, do it simply, thoughtfully, without affectation. Let the story and the life lessons sing themselves into your soul. Such reading will bring not mere entertainment, but recreation. Note: "The Creation" was considered in Lesson 5 of the 1942-43 literature course, and is considered once more to emphasize its narrative values.
Social Science
What "America" Means
Preview of Lessons for 1943-44
THE lessons in Social Science for 1943-44, will be a continuation of the subject studied during 1942-43; namely, "What 'America' Means." Seven lessons have been given, and seven more are to follow. With the completion of these lessons, the subject will be brought to a conclusion.
There has never been a time in the history of our nation when it was more important to understand America and the development of the American way of life based upon Christian principles, and to recognize our duties and responsibilities as citizens, than it is today. These are the primary purposes of this course.
Deep religious ideals permeated the people who first settled America. Generally, they were people who had been persecuted in the Old World. When they came together to form this government, they agreed that religious liberty, the right to worship God according to one's own conscience, should be a fundamental right of every citizen. This right was one of the noblest gifts to mankind in history.
Another great conception of the founders of our nation was that universal education should be encouraged. Whereas, in old countries, the common people had been kept in a state of subjection, in America all should be free to work and earn and learn. All had a right to take part in government. Freedom of opportunity was for all.
But now, in the great war that is sweeping over the earth, all our ideals, our free way of life, and our national existence are at stake. Our task is to fight against and overcome the evil influences which imperil us. Light must dispel darkness.
No lesson is scheduled for the month of December as the General Board does not require that a meeting be held on Tuesday, December 28, 1943.
The titles of the seven social science lessons for 1943-44, together with objectives and a brief summary of each lesson, follows:
Lessons 8 and 9. American Statesmen
The objectives of lessons 8 and 9 are the same; namely, to show the place that statesmen hold in our national life and the part they play in preserving American ideals and advancing civilization in this country.
Lesson 8 deals with the following statesmen: George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and Alexander Hamilton.
Lesson 9 gives a brief account of the activities of John Marshall, Henry Clay, John C. Calhoun, Daniel Webster, Abraham Lincoln.
Summary: America has produced many outstanding and noble statesmen, men who have devoted their lives to the preservation of our government and the principles upon which it is based. These men accepted Christian ideals and tried to put them into practice.
Lesson 10. The Sacredness of American Citizenship
Objective: To show that the rights we enjoy as American citizens should be regarded as sacred opportunities and as a power, and that right should be the guide to all Americans in the exercise of their citizenship.
Summary: The rights conferred upon our citizens by the government should be regarded as sacred. We have freedom of worship, freedom of education, and freedom to work. These are all privileges that have been won in the past, and should be preserved.
Lesson 11. Our American Culture
Objective: To show that although America is a young nation, as compared with the countries of the Old World, she is already one of the leading nations in culture.
Summary: The forces that have made America a land of culture have been carefully worked out. Culture is a result of a richness of spiritual life, and is shown in the music, sculpture, architecture, and literature, and in the homelife of a people. Like the true spirit of religion, culture is expressed in fine manners and customs, and kindliness toward one's fellow man. It is a reflection of the inner life of man his mind and spirit.
Lesson 12. Standards of Success
Objective: To show that America is a religious nation, and that in America standards of success are measured by Christian principles.
Summary: The American people have accomplished great and lasting things for the development and upbuilding of their country. They hold spiritual life above the material, and they are moved by high purposes; man must know his ideal worth and lift himself to it.
Lesson 13. What America Means to Me
Objective: To show the material and spiritual forces that have made America the great nation that it is today.
Summary: To survey this country is to come to the conclusion that it is a land "choice above all other lands." It has all the requirements to make human life happy and prosperous.
Lesson 14. The Need of the Hour
Objective: To show that the need of the hour is to strengthen the spiritual forces in America and to increase faith in God.
Summary: At the present time all the evil forces in the world seem to be combined to destroy the freedom and opportunity which America has made great. But we should be strong and full of courage; we are fighting for a righteous cause.
The textbook recommended by the General Board for the course "What 'America' Means" is the American Citizens Handbook, compiled by J. E. Morgan. This book is obtainable at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. The price is $1 postpaid.
The following reference books, which may be found in city and school libraries, will be found helpful in the preparation of particular subjects.
Adams, James Truslow, The March of Democracy Becker, C. L., Beginnings of the American People Earle, A. M., Home Life in Colonial Days Fisher, S. G., Struggle for American Independence Green, E. B., Foundation of American Nationality Sparks, E. E., Expansion of the American People Van Metre, T. W., Economic History of the United States Wertenbaker, T. J., The First Americans Wilder, Marshall, The United States in the Making Wilson, Woodrow, Division and Reunion
Lesson 8 American Statesmen
(Tuesday, October 26, 1943)
FROM the earliest times to the present, the United States has had a rich and varied political history. Every one of the thirteen original colonies had its leaders in political and civic life, and in reading about them one recalls the words of Carlyle that "history is recorded in the lives of great men."
From the advent of the English settlers to the formation of our Government, men of highest integrity and noble motives gave the people fine concepts of democratic government. It was a group of statesmen of the most valorous character who signed the Declaration of Independence. Fifty-five men in all represented the thirteen colonies, most of whom were highly educated and well qualified to perform the work of their day. They were men who foresaw the beginning of a new nation, "conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal."
It has been well said by one of the first historians of the men who drafted the noble document:
No nation can dwell with more just satisfaction upon its annals, than the American people. The emigrants who settled this country were illustrious men; distinguished for their piety, wisdom, energy, and fortitude. No less illustrious were their descendants who served as the guides and counselors of the colonies, or who fought their battles during the Revolutionary struggle. No one who admits the intervention of a special providence in the affairs of nations, can hesitate to believe that the statesmen of the Revolution were raised up by the God of Heaven for the important and definite purpose of achieving the independence of America.
Among the group who signed the Declaration of Independence were Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Samuel Adams, Robert Morris, Roger Sherman, and Edward Rutledge, all of whom were representative of the rich political thought of their day. They were the product and the highest promise of American life and American opportunity.
There is one character whom we wish to consider briefly, who was not of the group of which we have been speaking, but he caught the spirit of the colonial cause. We refer to the venerable William Pitt, Earl of Chatham. From the beginning of the opposition of America, Pitt had sensed the justice of the cause of the Colonists, and on many occasions he voiced his opposition to the laws passed by Parliament to govern the commerce and trade with America; and when troops were sent to America to enforce what the Colonists declared unjust laws, Pitt arose in the House of Parliament and said:
What foundation have we for our claims over America? What is our right to persist in such cruel and vindictive measures against that loyal and respectable people? My lords, deeply impressed with the importance of taking some healing measures at this most alarming, distracted state of our affairs, though bowed down with a cruel disease, I have crawled to this House to give you my best counsel and experience; and my advice is to beseech His Majesty to withdraw his troops from America. It will convince America that you mean to try her cause in the spirit, and by the laws of freedom and free inquiry, and not by codes of blood.
To such a policy, the ministry of England was not prepared to listen, but Pitt's plea shows that England was divided in her attitude toward the American Colonists, something that not all Americans know.
It was also a most extraordinary body of men that gathered together in 1787 to frame the Constitution of the United States. Never did such a group of powerful and brilliant intellects, men trained by experience, assemble for so great an undertaking as the framing of a constitution for a nation. And the best proof of the success which attended their efforts is to be found in the fact that the constitution which they framed for a nation of three million people has been found now fit for a hundred and fifty millions. Both major parties have vied in their admiration of the Constitution of the United States, for both have insisted that the venerable instrument, if correctly interpreted, supported their own tenets.
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN was one of the committee of five appointed by the Second Continental Congress to draft the Declaration of Independence. His great work was to create in America a feeling of unity. Going to France as a representative of the colonial government, he was instrumental in making a treaty with that country which was favorable to our Government. Although over seventy years of age, he was popular in French society, and his simple ways and quaint manners won for him many friends. Oxford University made him a Doctor of Laws, and he was soon a favorite all over Europe for his learning, statesmanship, discoveries of science, and practical inventions. A member of the Convention which formed the Constitution of the United States, it was Franklin who made the motion that the meetings of the Convention be opened every day with prayer. "I have lived a long time," said he, "and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs in the affairs of men." Franklin published one of the first newspapers in America as well as the famous "Poor Richard's Almanack." He founded the American Philosophical Society and the Philadelphia Public Library. His autobiography is one of the most noted classics of American literature.
GEORGE WASHINGTON was not only a soldier, the greatest of his day, but he was one of the outstanding statesmen of all time. He was in Boston at the head of the colonial army when the Declaration of Independence was drafted. In 1787 the Constitutional Convention met at Philadelphia, and Washington was made chairman of the assembly. With the adoption of the Constitution, he was chosen our first President. His cabinet was made up of the best men of the country, and in all the work of planning and forming the new government, of settling the policies of the Republic both at home and abroad, Washington was always equal to his problems. During his administration, a flood of infidelity swept over the United States. Keenly alive to its dangers, he dwelt in his Farewell Address on the fact that it was on religion and morality that our Government was founded. Whether at home or abroad, he was always careful of his personal appearance, and his manners were gracious and gentle. "His faith in God was his greatest armour," says one historian, "and this was the salvation of his country." Washington's record as one of the greatest military leaders of the world made him "first in war." His unique position as the one man above all others who aided our country to frame and adopt the Constitution, and his great service as the first President of the United States, made him "first in peace." It was his supreme faith in God for he was known as the "Christian Statesman" which made him "first in the hearts of his countrymen." John Marshall, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States wrote in his biography of Washington, these words: "Without making ostentatious professions of religion, he (Washington) was a sincere believer in the Christian faith and a truly devout man." In Washington's First Inaugural Address, he said: "No people can be bound to acknowledge and adore the Invisible Hand which conducts the affairs of men more than the people of the United States. Every step by which they have advanced to the character of an independent nation seems to have been distinguished by some token of providential agency."
VERY few men have left a deeper impression upon our nation and its government than Thomas Jefferson. One of the foremost men in American politics, he was responsible for writing the Declaration of Independence, and during two terms he was President of the United States. Although he never made a formal speech in his life, Jefferson was ranked as the greatest political leader of his day. A large part of his public work was done with the pen. During the American Revolution, he was busy at the head of civil affairs in his native state, Virginia. He followed Patrick Henry as governor of his state and succeeded Benjamin Franklin as American minister to Paris. During his first administration as President of the United States, he made the famous Louisiana Purchase, which extended the United States from the Mississippi River to the Rocky Mountains. Jefferson's political life closed in 1809, and in his quiet home at Monticello, Virginia, he spent his days in establishing the University of Virginia, at Charlottesville. Jefferson was Secretary of State in the cabinet of President Washington, and Alexander Hamilton was the Secretary of the Treasury. Both of these men held extremely opposite views as to government. Hamilton was a Federalist and held to the idea of a strong central government; while Jefferson was opposed to slavery and was an ardent advocate of State Rights. His party was called the Republican, which afterward became the Democratic Party. He held that the federal power should be limited as much as possible. He placed his confidence in the voice of the people. Monticello, now preserved as a national memorial, was Jefferson's home for over fifty years. Here on a part of his large estate, he built his unusual and fascinating house from his own design. Jefferson died on July 4, 1826, just fifty years after the signing of the Declaration of American Independence. It is interesting to note that at this writing, the beautiful memorial to Jefferson's memory, located on the banks of the Potomac River, has been fittingly dedicated in the city of Washington.
ANOTHER great statesman of the Revolutionary period was Alexander Hamilton, who was Secretary of the Treasury in Washington's cabinet. "Next to George Washington," said Chief Justice Marshall, "there has been no one to whom our Republic owes more." Born in the West Indies, his father was a Scotchman and his mother a beautiful French Huguenot. He came to New York in 1772, which was ever after his home. He was a great reader of Plutarch and Pope and many other great authors. A graduate of King's College, now Columbia University, he fought in the American Revolution, and took part in drafting the Constitution of the United States. His most important work was in the country's finances, and he was instrumental in the establishment of the Bank of the United States. He was the leader of the Federal Party, which stood for a strong central government over and above the states. More than any other statesman, Hamilton's plans for the money matters of the country restored the public credit, and trade and prosperity grew fast. He stood for a high protective tariff and encouraged home manufacture. He withdrew from the service of his country when only thirty years of age, and was killed in a duel with Aaron Burr on July 12, 1804.
IN thinking of the great men who founded this Republic and gave it the Constitution of the United States, we sense deeply the words of Sir Francis Drake, when he said:
Men pass away, but people abide. See that ye hold fast the heritage we leave you. Yea and teach your children its value, that never in the coming centuries their hearts may fail them or their hands grow weak. Hitherto, we have been too much afraid. Henceforth, we will fear only God.
Any one-volume history of the United States will be helpful as a reference.
Questions and Study Suggestions
1. Why did the American colonists go to war with England in 1775?
2. Who were some of the men who took part in that struggle?
3. What was the Declaration of Independence? Who were some of the men who took part in drafting it?
4. Who were some of the great statesmen of that period? By referring to any good American history, prepare something about the lives of: Washington, Hamilton, Jefferson, Samuel Adams, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin.
5. Give more extensive study to one character, and enumerate characteristics he possessed which you would desire to emulate.

Stories from the Book of Mormon
For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons.
Preview of Lessons for 1943-44
THIS is the first year of a probable two-year course of lessons entitled, "Stories from the Book of Mormon." The objectives of the course are threefold: First, to stimulate interest in the Book of Mormon; Second, to teach the Gospel as taught in the Book of Mormon; Third, to familiarize members with characters and events of the Book of Mormon.
There are only seven lessons for this first year of the course as no lesson is prepared for the month of December as the General Board does not require that a meeting be held on Tuesday, December 21, 1943.
The lesson titles and objectives are as follows:
Lesson 1 What is the Book of Mormon? Objective: To become acquainted with the historical background of the Book of Mormon.
Lesson 2 Lehi's Travels to the New World Objective: To show that belief in God is best evidenced by a willingness to serve and obey him.
Lesson 3 Nephi, a Leader in the Land of Promise Objective: To show the rewards of righteousness.
Lesson 4 Rebellion of the Lamanites Objective: To show that wrongdoing and disobedience to God's will bring evil results.
Lesson 5 Deliverance of Alma and Amulek from Prison Objective: To show that "the Lord gives us strength according to our faith which is in Christ, even unto deliverance."
Lesson 6 Conversion of Lamanites by Ammon and his Brethren Objective: To show that the arm of the Lord is extended to all people who will repent and believe on His name.
Lesson 7 Christ's Visit to the Nephites Objective: To develop an added appreciation for the meaning and purpose of baptism.
The references to be used in this course are limited to the four standard works of the Church plus the Articles of Faith by James E. Talmage, inasmuch as these are the only references many foreign-speaking missions have translated into their own languages.
The following excerpts from a letter of the author of these lessons indicating the factors that guided him in writing the lessons, will be helpful to the teacher in preparing the lessons for the coming year:
First, I believe that the greatest thing about the Book of Mormon is the Book of Mormon. I have felt at times in the lessons I have seen planned for the study of this book, that too much "writer" and not enough "Book" is present.
It seems to me that the most important thing in planning a lesson for a book is to find ways of letting the author speak. In this case the author is the Lord and for this reason there is a great need to get people to reading His word, both in groups and alone.
Second, most of the lessons I see taught in the mission field start from scratch with the lesson outline often the teacher is the only one with a copy of this and a possible volume of the standard works of the Church. I have kept this thought in mind in planning the lessons.
Third, the questions given are simple. They will get a rather thin discussion I feel, but after a reading of the Book of Mormon text the discussion should pick up. Both the questions and the reading activity provide immediate and simple tasks for the class to do. There ought not to be so many "dead spots" following a teacher's request for answers to difficult questions. Get a class into the actual scripture and the desire for discussion grows.
Lesson 1 What Is the Book of Mormon?
(Tuesday, October 26, 1943)
Note: For the full effect of the lesson it is imperative that one or more copies of the Book of Mormon be at hand during the class discussion.
A DIRECT answer to the question, "What is the Book of Mormon?" may be found by a careful reading of the pages which precede the actual Book of Mormon itself. These, in the 1920 edition, are bound with the main text. They contain three highly significant statements which demand serious thought:
1. The title page
This comes from the hand of Moroni, the last mortal man to possess the record. He lists there these important facts concerning the book:
It is...
The record of the people of Nephi, and also the Lamanites Written to the Lamanites, who are a remnant of the House of Israel; and also to Jew and Gentile....
Sealed by the hand of Moroni, and hid up unto the Lord, to come forth in due time by way of the Gentile The interpretation thereof by the gift of God
To show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers....
And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations....
2. The pages describing the origin
The coming forth to earth again of this record was by means of an angelic visitation from no other than the same risen Moroni to Joseph Smith. This stirring account is told in the language of simple truth by Joseph Smith himself.
3. The page bearing the testimony of witnesses
The sober testimony of three witnesses, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris, who also saw the angel as he lay before their marveling eyes the golden plates from which the Book of Mormon was translated, will be found as the last of these significant statements. As if for good measure the Lord provided eight other witnesses whose testimony is also found on the last page; eight other men who also "saw," and "handled," and "hefted" the plates of gold with engravings thereon which Joseph Smith showed them.
It is suggested that at this point the teacher or some members of the class read aloud the full account of these pages here briefly described which precede the actual text of the Book of Mormon. No more soul-stirring account of the true meaning and purpose of this wonderful record has ever been written. After reading these things proceed with the lesson which follows.
To establish His word in the last days God promised another witness to go hand in hand with the Bible. (Ezekiel 37:15-20) There was to be the Stick of Judah, the Bible, which came by way of the Jews; and the Stick of Joseph, the Book of Mormon, which came by way of another tribe of Israel, that of Joseph.
This latter record was to come "out of the dust," which it literally did, having been hid in the Hill Cumorah. (Isaiah 29:4)
That God could and would bear witness of His great plan of life to all nations is apparent in all His statements recorded in the Bible. Suffice it to say that those who came to inhabit the Americas did so by His command the first people soon after the confusion of tongues at the Tower of Babel; the second in 600 B. C. fleeing the destruction of Jerusalem. From this latter exodus two great nations of people sprang up, known as the Nephites and the Lamanites.
The truth of these facts can and will be established as time goes on. Men may be certain of that. Of greater importance to us who have come to know the power of God's word as recorded in the Book of Mormon is this that much of the Gospel, plain and precious, lost through translations of the Bible is given in the Book of Mormon. Herein lies a most powerful means of reaching the human heart. The word of God clearly understood is quickly embraced by one who would know the truth.
Joseph Smith's story of the coming forth of the Book of Mormon becomes more convincing once the words of the book itself are read with an open mind. Note the simplicity of this passage which clearly states the need there will be in the latter days for another witness of Christ and His mission:
"But a seer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and unto him will I give power to bring forth my word unto the seed of thy loins and not to the bringing forth my word only, saith the Lord, but to the convincing them of my word, which shall have already gone forth among them." (II Nephi 3: 11)
The Bible exists today. Has it brought men to an absolute and unshaken faith in their Redeemer? Would the many, many sects and creeds of religious worship now with us, seemingly based upon the Bible, be an answer to this question? "Christ, the example," they say. "Christ, the leader," they teach. But Christ, the literal Son of God who lived and died for man, and who lives now, resurrected and glorified, to return again what definite answer has the world for these great questions?
God knew even His chosen people would need more convincing word in the days when men would heap to themselves teachers who should turn the truth to fables. (II Timothy 4:3-4) And this word, in wisdom, He kept hid up until its power would strike like a two-edged sword.
If you have not been touched with the simplicity and power of the Gospel, made plain through the words of the Book of Mormon, seek this experience now. The following reading activities may help you.
For example, let us carry through the plan for one such reading exercise. Think first of some phase of the Gospel which may need more explanation for a clearer understanding than is found in the Bible; for example, the closing verse of the sixth chapter of Matthew: "Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof."
This comes as part of the Sermon on the Mount following the suggestion that one forsake the worldly care of providing food and drink and raiment for the body in order to serve God rather than Mammon. But has not God condemned the idler, and him who refuses to work? What kind of a world would this be if all of us took no thought of the morrow? And yet the Lord has given us these words. Have not you with other thinking Christians often wondered at the inconsistency of this verse?
If you follow through the complete text of the Sermon on the Mount there is no suggestion as to whether the Lord meant these words for all the multitude, and hence all men, or for His chosen disciples who were to spend their lives in the service of God. Somehow through the many translations of the Bible this fact was omitted.
When Christ appeared to the Nephites upon the American continent, what was recorded of His visit is more completely given. In III Nephi 13:25 we read: "And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words He looked upon the twelve whom He had chosen, and said unto them: Remember the words which I have spoken. For behold, ye are they whom I have chosen to minister unto this people. Therefore I say unto you take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on."
Read on from this point to the end of the chapter and note how this verse makes plain and logical the meaning of the words of Christ in the New Testament.
Questions and Readings for Discussion
With the help of other suggested readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the questions; second, read the passages given to discover other plain and precious truths of the Gospel brought to light through the Book of Mormon. If time permits each class member could add one found by himself from the Book of Mormon that has brought new light to a truth of the Gospel.
1. What evidence is there in the Bible as to the proper mode of baptism? Name the various ways you know of in which this ordinance has been performed. For reading, 3 Nephi 11: 16-28.
2. Is infant baptism necessary? For reading, Moroni, chapter 8.
The following is an additional exercise if needed for the class, but one which could preferably be used for home reading:
3. How does the true doctrine of repentance and restoration work in the lives of men? For reading, Alma chapters 39-42.
References: James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapters 14, 15.

RELATIONSHIP OF THE Y. W. M. I. A. TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY
(Continued from page 376)
is indeed the work of God. Thousands of the youth owe their interest in the Church and their testimony to the activities of the Mutual Improvement Associations. Thousands, too, of young women have received a training which has prepared them to enter the Relief Society and give intelligent service there.
The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association desires to cooperate fully with the Relief Society. Cooperation has always been the insignia of success in all Church activities. The L. D. S. Ward is like one large family, with all the auxiliaries giving help in rounding out the lives of the individual members. The women's organizations are an integral part of this ward group, each providing for the different ages the programs and activities that help them build into ideal womanhood.
Never has there been greater need for these organizations, never has there been wider scope for their talents, and never has there been a more urgent call for them to work hand in hand to meet the problems which the girls and women of the Church are facing at the present period.
Our young people are surrounded by temptations and dangers far beyond those of normal times. The powers of evil, it would seem, are determined to overthrow righteousness and in no way can this be accomplished so surely as by bringing about the downfall of youth. The moral and spiritual welfare of our girls rests heavily upon us as their leaders, but we are cheered and heartened to know that we have the faith and assistance of the mothers in Israel and of all Relief Society workers throughout the Church. Only through our united effort and the blessings of the Lord can we hope to influence and hold our young people.
It is an honor to be included in this special woman's number of your Magazine. May this issue prove to be one more shining link in your historic chain of accomplishments.

SPEAKING on Maternity and the Changing Family Scene, Hazel Corbin of the Maternity Center Association, said:
We've got to get over this idea that being a housewife and mother is not an important task in life.... These mothers hold up the glorious traditions of America. They are striving against difficult odds to make home an attractive place for their children, to make it a safe place, a place of security and happiness in which their children are growing up and to which they will want to bring their friends.
Today there is no task more important than that. You see it is financial pressure as well as the pressure of public opinion that forces many a mother with young children into industry, and when that occurs the very foundations of her family, the very foundations of her children's security the things her husband is fighting for are destroyed.
Does anyone think that a mother can hold a full-time job in a war factory, under the pressure of more, more, more, faster, faster, faster, and properly care for her family at the same time? From The Child, May 1943 p. 165, monthly bulletin of the Children's Bureau, U. S Department of Labor.

Wherever they go, whatever they do, the gift of a Bible and the one who gave it will always be remembered. For a Bible is the lasting gift of lasting love.
AMERICAN BIBLE SOCIETY SINCE 1816 At Your Bible Bookstore

PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS TRAINING
Day and evening the year 'round Excellent Buildings and Equipment Competent Faculty Pleasant, Stimulating Environment
Visit the College or call 3-2765 for full information.
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City

CHILDREN
Added Upon $1.25 Mother Stories from Book of Mormon 1.25 Pioneer Stories 1.00 Inspirational Talks 1.00 Ancient Apostles 1.00 In the Gospel Net 1.25 Life of Christ for the Young 1.00 Rhythm Fun 1.00
SUMMER VACATION AND YOU
Children in war time need an antidote for over-stimulated nerves. Bless them with inspiration from good books like these:
Musical Adventures 1.00 Recreation in the Home .60 The Story of the Book of Mormon 1.25 What Jesus Taught .90 The Word of Wisdom .75 Mama's Bank Account 2.00 Syrian Yankee 2.50 2% Sales tax in Utah
Send for our latest catalog
DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Last year sugar beet growers produced the biggest beet crop in history... Otherwise, the sugar situation would now be desperate. So you can thank home-produced sugar the sugar that needs no ships and the farmers who grew the beets, for the unrationed "extra" sugar that is now available for home canning.
U and I is the pioneer sugar of the Intermountain West and still a leader in quality markets of the country.
RATION REMINDERS
Stamp No. 13 (all purpose) good for 5 lbs., June 1-August 15. Stamps Nos. 15 and 16 now good for 5 lbs. Each for home canning. For additional sugar for home canning up to 15 lbs. Apply at your ration board.
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah Factories in Utah, Idaho, Washington, Montana, South Dakota

PAID PERMIT NO. 969 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH