On Enlarging the Soul With Music
Elder Alexander Schreiner Salt Lake Tabernacle Organist
IF I were rich I would surround myself with the works of great men, the geniuses in literature, in music, and in art. I would pamper myself with books in bright bindings, with music in its richest splendor, and with paintings, architecture, and sculptures in their most exalted forms. I would marvel not only at the great works in nature, the brilliant sun and the mysterious stars in the firmament, creations of God, the Father of all, but I would wonder also, and feel humble, before the ennobling treasures of beauty which inspired sons of God, geniuses among men, have left for all mankind to enjoy. Through the eyes and ears of these rare composers of beauty, I would see and hear at this very moment some small inkling of the beauties of a heaven which is to come. I would have some real reason for feeling that the works of God are marvelous and beyond human understanding, because even the works of some of His earthly sons are of no small glory and magnificence.
No doubt many a great man has been at a loss to account for the source of inspiration which empowered him to accomplish wonderful things; and many, if they were God-fearing men, have fallen upon their knees in prayers of thanks to Divine Providence for their natural endowments enabling them to bring knowledge and beauty into the world through their scholarship, art, or other useful endeavors.
Page 380
Among musicians, there were at least two men who expressed themselves in words as to the mysterious source of their creations. When Handel had finished writing his oratorio, The Messiah, in the feverish haste of twenty-four days, he thought that the angels of heaven must have whispered the music into his ears, because he felt he could not of himself alone have written music of such power and grandeur. Those of us whose souls vibrate with the strains of Handel's music can well sympathize with the feelings in the heart of this great composer.
Richard Wagner also felt that he was a privileged soul to be able to write masterpieces of supreme dramatic power. He, too, felt that he must have some unknown access to the harmonies of the spheres, because his works seemed to be of a greater stature, and of more splendor than of a mere man.
However, it is my personal feeling that men of genius have greater powers within themselves than they may realize. I believe that God largely allows His earth children to follow their own divinely inherited intelligence in the working out of their problems and the creation of the beauties of their environments. The fact that Handel and Wagner were able to produce heretofore unheard of beauties is merely evidence that mortal man is of the spiritual lineage of Divine royalty. In other words, a child of God inherits some of the great creative powers of the Creator
ON ENLARGING THE SOUL WITH MUSIC
Himself. The amazing genius of a human mind thus explains itself.
What a privilege it is to become acquainted with the creations of the masters. It strengthens the tie between man and God. The immortality of the fruits of great minds is one of the choicest blessings bestowed upon mankind.
Goethe, who was literally a fountain of genius, buried himself with the works of great minds, not only book literature and music literature, but paintings as well.
"If I were rich I would surround myself with the works of great men." We are living in an era when this statement may be changed to read as follows: "Though I am poor, I can surround myself with the works of great men." Present-day advertising has made material goods so attractive that there has been a tendency to crowd out the enjoyment of the creations of great souls, the cherished treasures of all time. At this moment we are facing new circumstances. With world war devouring economic wealth, it would seem wise for us to seek the acquisition of non-material riches and beauties which cannot be taken away from us.
POOR people today can own a larger library of books than did wealthy readers of a century or more ago. What about music? Here we come to an entirely new development in our civilization, something rather startling and wonderful to experience. The modern phonograph with its recorded treasures offers an acquaintanceship with the symphonies of the greatest music creators of every period, performed by the skilled music interpreters of our day, and
381
brought into our homes by one of the miracles of modern science. The phonograph is a tri-combination of phenomenal magnitude. Two centuries ago the royalty of Europe entertained itself with an abundance of good music. Prominent musicians of that day were engaged to perform, to compose, and to direct court orchestras, because music was as much a part of the daily routine as was the evening repast that preceded it. Crowned heads were as proud of the music offered in their courts as they were of any of their tangible possessions. 'This demand for music was a great stimulus to the musicians of that day and resulted in a flowering of the art of composition. It fanned the creative genius of Bach and Handel, of Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven. 'These men brought the art of music to a climax under the lavish patronage of European court life. 'This splendid heritage is no longer the exclusive property of an aristocracy, for it ls now conveniently available to anyone who cares to. Accept it. With the whole world in a most trying condition, music is like the north star, something we can trust and have faith in, something which has dropped to us as out of the blue of heaven to console and delight our hearts. But the reader may object that he is not inclined toward music which is of the grand manner. I believe with Shakespeare that every good child of God really has music in him, though it may not have been awakened. Several years ago a friend of mine was persuaded to attend his first symphony concert. He was not greatly interested, but a spark in him 382 was aroused so that today he is one of the most ardent enthusiasts on music that I know. He has discovered that real music is not composed of trivial tunes, but is something of genuine grandeur. Music has opened a new avenue of joy in his life. The phrase "get acquainted with music, you might like it" is an experiment that is almost certain to have a happy ending. We enjoy things and people and places that we know. The more we expand our interests, the more fully we partake of the God-given treasures that are a part of the design of our personal destiny and fulfillment. The first step in the understanding of music is exposure to it. We must hear it, we must become acquainted with it, we must learn to recognize it, then we will admire it, appreciate it, love it. The phonograph offers a most convenient and sure method for carrying out this formula. It makes possible frequent repetitions that will lead to the same familiarity with the classics that exists with the folk songs and popular melodies of childhood. We all love the tunes that are sung in community gatherings, the lullabys, the Christmas-JULY 1943 carols, the negro melodies. When we become equally well acquainted with the works of the masters of music, our ceiling of appreciation will rise and expand to heights that bring undreamed of joy. The Apostle Paul said, "When I was a child, I spake as a child." Adults who have neglected the beauties of music literature are as children musically. Aristotle uttered a wise recommendation when he said, "Let the young pursue their studies. In music until they are able to feel delight in noble melodies and thythms, and not merely in that common part of music in which every slave or child and even some animals find pleasure." After more than two thousand years, Aristotle's advice is still pertinent. If we seek after the ways of strong men, we partake of their virtues and nobleness. May music, the universal language, open up a new chapter of joy in our lives. Families who in former years were avid collectors of sets of books are now collecting albums of recorded music. Great music has quite as much aesthetic significance as volumes of "belles-lettres." Suggested List of Recordings for Beginners 1. Dvorak: New World Symphony 2. Beethoven: Fifth Symphony a Johann Strauss: Tales of the Vienna Woods 4. Tschaikowsky: Nutcracker Suite 5. Prokofieff: Peter and the Wolf 6. Schubert: Unfinished Symphony 7. Tschaikowsky: Fifth Symphony 8. Wagner: Wagnerian Excerpts g. Debussy: Afternoon of a Faun 10. Mozart: Symphony in G Minor 11. Mendelssohn: Violin Concerto in E Minor 12. Rimsky-Korsakoff: Scheherazade Suite Agnes McMillan Bolto Edna J. Gardiner HE recent appointment of Agnes McMillan Bolto to the General Board brings to this group a member well qualified to fill her new assignment. Many years of continuous activity and service in the Relief Society of the Church have broadened the scope of her endeavors and endeared her to the people among whom she has served. Her life and character reflect her Scotch-English parentage. Her father, William McMillan, was of Scotch extraction, although he was born in England of Latter-day Saint parentage. Faith in God and His people inspired the McMillans to come to Utah. They made their home in the Twenty-second Ward of Salt Lake City and when the Twenty-second Ward was divided and the Twentyeighth Ward created, Brother McMillan became the first bishop of the Twenty-eighth Ward, presiding over it for twenty-three years. His wise counsel endeared him to his people and was a source of inspiration and guidance to his children. He was politically active and served three terms in the state legislature, holding positions of importance and authority for many years. Sister Bolto's mother, the daughter of Benjamin Smith Newton, of Newcastle, England, was a homemaker, presiding with dignity and justice in the affairs of home life. She was a devoted wife and mother, sustaining her husband in his public duties. She gave diligent and faithful AGNES M. BOLTO service in the Relief Society, particularly in welfare work. She was known and loved for acts of kindness among the sick and needy, serving for days at a time during epidemics. Agnes McMillan Bolto, the fourth child, was born in Salt Lake City, September 27th, 1887. Her early training in a home influenced strongly by religious precept and example, has greatly augmented her naturally spiritual temperament. Her activity in the Church began at the age of fourteen, as secretary of the ward Primary. When only seventeen, she was set apart as an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple, acting in this capacity for ten years. Page 383 384 She was a member of the Tabernacle choir, under both Evan Stephens and Anthony C. Lund, contributing freely of her musical talent in solo work as well as group singing. Professor Stephens accorded her the distinction of being the foremost contralto in Utah. She accompanied the choir on its northwest tour in 1909, and later, with her husband, George F'. Bolto, went with the choir to New York. Being called to sing in the Temple choir by Prof. J. C. Thomas, she was often selected to sing duets with President Heber J. Grant. Those were happy years, endowing her richly with spirituality and contributing to her training. She was united in marriage to George F. Bolto in 1910, and they made their home in the Third Ward in Salt Lake City, where Sister Bolto faithfully participated in ward activities. She presided over the Junior Sunday School, was president of the Primary Association for three years, and was assistant choir leader. During this time she also organized, under the presidency of Lotta Paul Baxter, the first Relief Society chorus in Liberty Stake. In 1917, the Boltos moved to Richards Ward, Granite Stake, in Salt Lake City, where she continued to participate actively in Church work, serving first as secretary of the Relief Society and later as stake chorister, under Sister Leonora T. Harrington. She attended the first course in family welfare work conducted by the General Board at the Brigham Young University in 1920 under the leadership of Amy Brown Lyman. Later she served for six months as a field worker of the social]-JULY 1943 welfare department of the Relief Society General Board. Sister Bolto was later called to the Granite Stake Relief Society Board, where she served as second and, subsequently, as first counselor to Sister Emmaretta G. Brown, giving untiring and valuable service for about eight years, when home duties claimed her entire attention. After a short respite she was again called to active service outside her home, being elected president of the Forest School Parent-Teacher Association. Her work here was of pronounced value to the school and the community. During this time she was also chorister of the ward Relief Society. Sister Bolto was appointed second counselor to Myrtle B. Latimer in the Ganite Stake Relief Society, and in 1938 succeeded her as president, which position she held at the time of her call to the General Board. The home life of Brother and Sister Bolto was ideal. Brother Bolto died January 25, 1943. Their two children, Milan and Frances, arenow married; Milan is in the military service of his country. Agnes Bolto's appointment to the Relief Society General Board, May 5, 1943, brings to this Board a woman of dignity and poise, endowed with spirituality, with a loyal trust in the Priesthood and its salutary influence on the lives of the women of the Church. Wise in the choice of friends and associates, she has presided with dignity, justice, and understanding, and approaches her new position with humility and trust in the Lord.