PIONEER DAY 1847
Maryhale Woolsey
"This is the place," the visioned Leader said. Their weary trek was ended. Summer sun Poured down upon their empire-to-be-won  The parched and sage-cloaked valley land ahead.
On sunflower-hearts the droning wild bees fed. The redmen's cricket harvest had begun. As if to mock the Leader's benison, The salt lake laughed in its imprisoned bed.
They made their final camp, with prayer and song; Soon fragrant brush-smoke rose in spirals high Like signal-fires of faith, to call the strong.
Before that night's first stars shone in the sky, Their plows had challenged the reluctant loam, Their furrows marked this virgin land as "home."
Relationship of the Y. W. M. I. A. To the Relief Society
Lucy Grant Cannon President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association
THE mention of the name Relief Society immediately calls up in the mind of the Mutual Improvement officer or girl a band of motherly, intelligent women women who think of their personal welfare and comfort as secondary to the call of their duty in caring for the poor, the sick, the lonely, the unfortunate, the sad, the discouraged. Unselfish service is the keynote to their success. Truly they exemplify in life those meaningful words spoken of our Lord and recorded in the New Testament, "He went about doing good."
It is not possible to express adequately the admiration and love which is felt by us as members of the Y. W. M. I. A., we who are intimately acquainted with the marvelous accomplishments of the Relief Society throughout the world. We salute you, our mother organization, and wish in every way to help you in the spreading of the gospel of love and service.
When the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the sisters in 1842, he opened the way for all women in this last dispensation to make rapid advancement educationally and spiritually. Your one hundred years of noble achievement testify of the inspiration of the Prophet and of the magnitude of your calling.
The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association is approaching
Page 376
its 74th milestone, for it was on November 28, 1869, that President Brigham Young, in his home in the Lion House, called together his young daughters and told them of their great responsibility as daughters of Zion. They were to set the example among the young in correct dress, simplicity in speech, and proper conduct. He laid special stress on the necessity of the study of the Gospel, telling his daughters to obtain a testimony of the same, as had their parents, directing them to active participation in the work of the Church, giving them that memorable instruction that "more testimonies of the Gospel are gained on the feet than on the knees."
From this small and unique beginning Mutuals were organized in practically all wards and branches until now the membership is around 78,000. As the years have passed, many new features have been added to this great movement. In 1923, an additional assignment of the supervision of the leisure-time activities for the entire Church was made by the First Presidency to the Mutual. These new assignments, these new features have but strengthened the original purpose and opened avenues of expression that have more firmly convinced the young that this work. (Continued on page 457)
The