LUCY DOWNING.
	Lucy Downing, sister of John Winthrop,
was one of the chief movers for a higher
education here in America, and her solicita-
tions led to the founding of Harvard College.
Her brother urged her to settle here, but she
declined doing so unless some provision was
made for the education of her son George.
She says: “It would make me go far nim-
bler to New England, if God should call me
to it, than otherwise I should; and I believe
a college would put no small life into the
plantation.” This was in 1636, and in Octo-
ber of the same year, the general court at
Boston voted £400 to a college of which
£200 was to be paid in 1637, and the other
half when the building was finished. In
November, 1637, the building was located
at Cambridge, and about a year afterward
it was endowed by Rev. John Harvard with
one-half his estate. The President took his
seat in 1640, and second on the list of his
first graduating class of nine young men,
six of whom became ministers, stands the
name of Lucy Downing’s George, the
nephew of Gov. Winthrop. The “solicitous
suit” of the good dame had prevailed, and
Harvard College has since had a name in
the world for more than two centuries and a
quarter; while Lucy Downing has been
well-nigh forgotten and as much neglected,
even by her own George, as her sex has
been by the college she teased into exis-
tence. The Springfield Republican well
says that Lucy Downing, the young mother,
vexing her soul and pinching her purse, and
putting her daughters out to service, in or-
der to give her sons a good education—
Lucy Downing coaxing the founders of New
England to establish a college for boys—has
been a type of her sex from that day to this.
The men of New England are more indebt-
ed to the women of New England than to
their own sex for their good educations; yet
no sooner do they ask for the like privileges
for their own sex than the ungrateful men
and the ungracious boys who have thriven
by their sacrifices and sagacity, call them
bold and covetous, and refuse to admit them
to the colleges they founded.


﻿A little Troy boy, who was worrying
over a piece of shad at dinner lately, demor-
alized his mother by asking—"Mamma,
where did God find all the bones to make
the first shad of?”
	“Uncle Charles,” said a six-year-old, the
other day, “can you tell me why the sun
sets in the west at night, and rises in the
east in the morning?”
	“Pshaw!” said Uncle Charles, “the first
fool you meet can tell you that.”
	“Yes, uncle,” replied the sweet boy,
“that’s why I asked you!”


