HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Bleach Discolored Flannel.—To restore the
original appearance of white flannel, which has
turned yellowish by lying for a long time, or by
wear, soak for an hour in a weak solution of bi-sul-
phate of soda, then add a little dilute muriatic acid,
stir well and cover the vessel for twenty minutes. 
After this take the flannel out, rinse in plenty of 
soft water and dry in the sun. The flannel will be 
purely white. 

	Reomoving Greese Spots.—Make a paste of
quicklime, washing soda, and as little water as
possible, put it on the grease spots, when you have
with stone or wood. It may, however, discolor the
wood or make it darker. In case you wish to avoid
this, cover the wood or paper with dry carbonate
of magnesia, powdered chalk, or even dry starch
powder, place on top a thick blotting-paper, and
then a hot flatiron. This will draw out the greese.
If not fully drawn out, scrape off the powder and
repeat the operation. Some liquid ammonia may
finish the job if the heat does not fully clean it all
up.

	To Cook Rice.—Following is the method recom-
mended by the French Academy for cooking rice
during the seige of Paris: Take one cup of rice and
one-fourth of a cup of water in a saucepan, cover,
and place over a good fire; after an hour the water
will be evaporated, and the rice cooked tender, but
dry, with grains distinct, not in paste. Sufficient
salt should be added, in the first place, and care
should be taken not to disturb the rice while cook-
ing. By adding a little butter, and allowing the
rice to dry a little more over a gentle fire, a more
delicate dish is prepared. Rice is cooked in this 
manner in the East Indies.

	Testing Colored Fabrics.—Prof. Stein of Dres-
den, has recently published a little book on this
subject, from which we extract a few tests which
can be readily applied by persons who are not chem-
ists and who have no laboratories to work in.
	Red.—A piece of the goods is first boiled in
soap water, which should remain colorless, or nearly
so. Secondly, it is boiled in lime water, which
should be colored but little, if any, while the color
of the goods must not become paler, or become
brown or yellow. These simple experiments suf-
fice to indicate the presence or absence of camwood,
archil, santel and the coal-tar colors.
	Yellow.—The most permanent yellow is madder:
the least so are Orleans and turmeric. Only those
of the first class will stand washing. To test a
yellow it is first boiled in water, then in alcohol,
and finally in lime water. If the former are col-
ored quite a yellow, and the latter a reddish, while
the stuff acquires a reddish-brown tint, the color is
not fast.
	Blue.—This color is not fast if, on boiling with
alcohol, it gives to it a red, a violet-red or a blue
color, or, if on warming it with muriatic acid and
water or alcohol, the liquid turns red, or the goods
turn red or brown-red.
	Violet and Purple.—Madder violets, and those
formed by combining indigo-carmine with cochineal,
are fast. If fast colors are combined with fugitive
colors they lose their value. All violets are to be 
considered poor if they give up a considerable
amount of color when boiled in equal parts of wa-
ter and alcohol, and allowed to stand ten or fifteen
minutes. Also, if they change to a brown or red-
dish brown by boiling in dilute muriate acid.
	Orange.—The goods are first boiled in water; if
this is colored the colors are fugitive. If the wa-
ter remains colorless, the sample is next boiled with
alcohol, to which it should give no color.
	Green.—Dilute alcohol should not be colored
blue, green or yellow when boiled with the goods,
nor should muriatic acid acquire a red or blue color.
	Browns—Are not so easily tested; If, however,
they give a red color to water, or a yellow color to
alcohol, they may be considered as fugitive.
	Black.—If, on boiling the goods in water con-
taining some muriatic acid, it only imparts a yel-
low color to the liquid, the color is fast. If, on the
other hand, the liquid acquires a red color and the
stuff turns brown, the dye is not permanent, but 
nearly worthless.


