R. S. REPORTS.

			BEAVER CITY, July 1st, 1874.
EDITOR  WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—
	Our Young Ladies Association was organ-
ized December 13th, 1873, with Mrs. Har-
riet E. Fotheringham for President; Mrs.
Harriet E. Shepherd, Mrs. Christena Levi,
Mrs. Eunice Greenwood, Miss Agnes Lebar-
ren (now Mrs. Hutchings), Miss Aurelia
Walker, Miss Mary A. Greenwood for Coun-
selors, and Miss Ida T. Hunt, Secretary.
Our meetings are pretty well attended and
those who attend feel well in the Work.
About thirty of us met on Saturday morn-
ing, June 13th, and spent the time, besides
partaking of a picnic dinner, in sewing car-
pet-rags until three o'clock, when we com-
menced our meeting, according to adjourn-
ment. Opened by singing, and prayer by
Sister Gillies, and singing. The minutes
of the last meeting were read and accepted.
The Secretary, Miss Ida F. Hunt, having
been called to perform other important du-
ties, could not attend and Miss Eliza E.
Parkinson was elected to act in her stead.
Selections from the EXPONENT, and Wo-
man's Journal were read by Miss Alice Ty-
ler, Miss I. Farnsworth and Miss Ellen Lee.
Interesting and appropriate remarks were
made by Miss Melissa White, Miss Mary A.
Greenwood, Miss Emeline Adair, Mrs. Houd,
Mrs. Gillies, Mrs. Fotheringham, Miss Ellen
Lee and Miss Mary Lumblad. The chief
subjects chosen for reading and discourse
were education, dress, reformation and
prayer. Mary Crosby was elected a mem-
ber. Meeting adjourned until June 27th,
1874. Closed with singing and benediction
by Mrs. Houd.
		HARRIET E. FOTHERINGHAM,
							President.
	ELIZA E. PARKENSON, Secretary.
			CENTREVILLE, July 13, 1874.
	The Relief Society of this place held its
fifth annual meeting June 24th. Meeting
opened with singing and prayer. The min-
utes of the previous meeting were read, al-
so the Financial reports of the past year.
President Mrs. Margaret H. Randall advised
the sisters to so live  that they might know
the truth for themselves and not let their
faith be the reflection of other people's—To
be a help to their husbands and to carry
their own share of life's burdens as well as
enjoy a portion of life's comforts—Gave
some good advice upon dress, the selecting
and making up of such material as would
be becoming to the wearer and her station
in life—Spoke of the importance of sustain-
ing ourselves as far as possible and gave
some good suggestions upon the subject of 
health. Counselor Mrs. Rebecca Porter ad-
vised the sisters to keep in the line of duty
and to improve their minds by reading,
studying and thinking, and to bear in mind
that each must earn her own salvation for a
husband, friend or neighbor cannot perform
her spiritual work. Several of the sisters
bore testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
The few poor in this place have been helped
to what they most needed. The Society
have paid one installment of twenty-five
dollars on the organ for our meeting house,
and have bought some furniture for our
hall. The sisters have donated twenty-five
dollars to the P. E. Fund.
	The members are united in their efforts
to do good and to make a good school of
the Society where we may improve intel-
lectually as well as spiritually. We ought
never to be satisfied with any attainment
which we may have but have a desire to
progress and thankfully improve the oppor-
tunity we have through the Relief Society
for self improvement. The people, here
have organized into a United Order, so far
things have gone on smoothly and satisfac-
tory to all.
		MARIETTA ADAMS, Secretary.


