AN EASY, GOOD-NATURED FELLOW.

	I have in my mind's eye one who prides
himself upon the above appellation, and
who makes it a point to favor every one for
the sole purpose of impressing his good-na-
ture. At different periods of his life he
has engaged in almost every avocation that
can be mentioned, and each time has made
a signal failure simply because he was so
"easy."
	Experience having taught him that his
reputation for amiability has secured him
against public censure, his reverses have
had no serious effect upon him, but his wife,
poor woman, has been the martyr.
	In the frequent intervals of idleness that
were the natural results of changes of busi-
ness, she struggled nobly, endeavoring to
make herself equal to the occasion by sup-
porting the family, sometimes by sewing,
sometimes by teaching, and occasionally by
canvassing for a new publication. These
efforts on her part were accepted by her
husband as a matter of course, and if the
neighbors indulged in an occasional sneer
at the expense of Jones, it was always modi-
fied by the apology:
	"Oh, well, Jones is such an easy, good-
natured fellow, he can't get along."
	Finally, after years of patient, unremit-
ting labor, with her past struggles folded
away in her memory and the future black
and cheerless before her, with the truth
forced upon her that she could not love the
man she had ceased to respect, she quietly
took her children and sought the paternal
roof.
	Then what a cry went up! What a howl
of persecution followed her! "If there was


any difference between them it must have
been her fault." So the women in the com-
munity said, for Jones was always so easy
and good-natured.
	And to-day, after the lapse of years, if
you pass through the village where she
wrought day and night for his support, you
will find Jones sustained by the sympathy
of his female friends. If the circumstances
of Mrs. Jones' departure is refered to, you
will hear, as other strangers have heard be-
fore you, that "it could not have been his
fault; he was too good-natured;" that al-
though his wife had seemed good enough,
she must have had a furious temper, and
was, they had no doubt, entirely to blame.


