POSITION AND DUTIES.

	The Latter-day Saint women of Utah occupy
a more important position than is occupied by
any other women on the earth. Associated, as
they are, with apostles and prophets inspired
by the living God—with them sharing in the
gifts and powers of the holy Priesthood by
which, through the merits of our Great Re-
deemer, we have access to, and hold commu-
nion with the Father of our spirits—participa-
ting in those sacred ordinances, without which,
we could never be prepared to dwell in the pres-
ence of the Holy Ones. Who can fully appre-
ciate our blessings; and who is capable of real-
izing the weight of the responsibilities resting
upon us? Where much is given, much is re-
quired.
	“The time, the set time” has come, and the
kingdom of God is now being established. In
this great Work, woman has much to do—not
only in giving birth to, and training those who
shall be the mothers of future generations, the
“polished stones” in Zion, prophetesses and
holy women—those who shall be the future
apostles, prophets, patriarchs and rulers of na-
tions, but she also has much to do in the intri-
cate labors consequent on the introduction and


establishment of the higher and purer form of
government—eradicating the traditions, preju-
dices, prepossessions, false habits and practices
which have gained possession of the hearts of
the people during the long absence of the ful-
ness of the Gospel with its Priesthood, powers
and blessings. She has much to do in purify-
ing, refining and elevating society; for, in all
countries and among all nations, female char-
acter is the index to, or exponent of society at
large.
	It is admitted by many intelligent, observing
people that woman’s influence is paramount to
that of man’s in modeling and in giving shade
and tone to national character. “Show me the
women of a nation, and I will describe the
character of that nation,” has been pertinently
remarked, with how much consistency we leave
others to judge.
	With the Saints the interests of man and
woman are one in every sense of the word, and
this mutual interest is productive of mutual
effort; and in many directions, a combination
of labors.
	Here, outside the boundary of her domestic
routine, woman has many sacred, important
duties to perform, and a holy, purifying influ-
ence to wield—an influence which, although
imperceptibly exercised, is potent in its effects.
How necessary, then, that the Latter-day Saint
women—being called to act in a wider sphere,
and with higher and more responsible duties
devolving upon them, than all others—should
be well informed on all subjects affecting the
interests of humanity—should posses all the ex-
pansion of mind that can be acquired and the
attainment of all useful intelligence and true
knowledge. They should not only be prepared
to ornament society but also to accomplish an
important part in elevating it to a higher stan-
dard than is elsewhere known on earth.
							E. R. S.


