			KANYON.

	On Wednesday, the 17th of last month,
the following named sisters, M. I. Horne,
E. Howard, Z. D. Young, and E. R. Snow
went by carriage, (which with team, was
kindly furnished by Bro. W. Howard) to
Tooele City. We were graciously received
and cordially welcomed by Mrs. Miklejohn,
Pres. of the Relief Society in that place,
and by her husband.
	Thursday at 10, we attended Society
meeting in the commodious Meeting House,
with a large assembly of sisters, and a few
prominent brethren. At 2, we again met,
and, after other services, organized a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association, com-
posed of between sixty and seventy mem-
bers. In the evening as many of those
young ladies as could be seated met with
us at the residence of brother Miklejohn,
and we had a very interesting time giving
them words of counsel, encouragement and
instruction. The next morning, brother
Miklejohn remarked that it was the most
beautiful sight he had ever seen.
	The next forenoon we met with a large
congregation in the Meeting House: when
near the close of the service, brother James
Dunn came to the stand, and read a beauti-
ful poem, written by himself, entitled
"Welcome to Sister Snow and Company."—
The following extract shows that Br. Dunn
is no unpracticed writer:
	"Sisters in Christ, we bid you welcome here;
	     Our homes are brighter for your pleasant "call:"
	Our hearts are warmer—and the silent tear
	     Of holy friendship, at your presence falls.
	Your suasion fires us, as with hearts of steal,
	     To stand for God, and battle for the right:
	Your words are simple, but they make us feel
	     To press on heav'nward with a giant's might.
				*	*	*	*	*
	When men like Brigham, point, and lead the way,
	     And wives like you, join in the noble cause;
	No powers of darkness can our progress stay.
	     Altho' they fill the world with hellish laws."
	The entire poem is worthy of publication,
but the other portion being highly compli-
mentary to ourselves, are withheld, lest we
should be suspected of vanity.
	In the afternoon, accompanied by several
of the brethren and sisters of Tooele, we
rode to pine Kanyon—dined with Br. and
Sr. Martin—attended Relief Society meet-
ing, Sr. Steele presiding—organized a Young
Ladies' Association—returned to Tooele and
spent an interesting evening at Br. Mikle-
john's, with the officers of the R. Society,
and as many others as could be accommo-
dated.
	In all these meetings, the spirit of the
Lord was copiously poured out and we had
a refreshing time. The Tooele Choir was
punctually in attendance when we met in
the Meeting House, and added much to the
interest and enjoyment of those occasions.
One excellent and very noticeable feature
in the sweet music of this Choir, is the plain
and distinct pronunciation of the words,
which adds intelligence to sound.
	We were highly pleased with the spirit
manifested by our sisters wherever we went
—not only in their affectionate reception of
us but, what is of the greatest importance,
we found many of them truly alive to the
interests of the Kingdom of God. Our vis-
it with them will long be retained in our
memories, as one of the green spots in thejourney of life.
				ONE OF THE PARTY.
	S. L. CITY, July 1, 1873.


