THE SEX.
	MRS. Harriet A. Tracy is President of
the Temperance Union of Langsing, Michi-
gan.
	DR. Lenora Foster, of Otsego, was one of
the delegates to the American Medical As-
sociation in session at Detroit.
	MRS. Hill, sister of Sir Noel Paton, has
furnished the design for a statue that is to
be erected in honor of Dr. Livingstone.
	MISS Sarah McGoldrick of Detroit, Mich.,
has been confirmed by the Board of Educa-
tion as Assistant Secretary of that body.
	MRS. Martha Walker Cook, a sister of the
late Hon. Robert Walker, is translating the
works of Krasinski, the great Polish poet.
	MRS. Sarah Kidder, of Livermore, Me.,
will be one hundred and three years old in
October next, and is probably the oldest per-
son in the State.
	MRS. Dr Baldwin, a missionary on the
Sandwich Islands for 44 years, having gone
thither in 1830, died there recently, 68 years
of age.
	THE Polish Princess Czartoryska has
make over the whole of her immense for-
tune and vast landed possessions to a Ro-
man Catholic convent at Posen.
	MRS. Lidia Blankinship, of Marion Mass.,
died on Monday, at the extreme age of one
hundred years, one month and eleven days.
On her hundredth birthday she was in good
health and attended church.
	MRS. C. F. Corbin, of Evanstown, Ill., re-
cently read a paper on Enlightened Mother-
hood. Of all the children born in Christen-
dom, only one half, she said, reach the age
of six years.
	MISS Sophia Flora Heilborn, well known
to all European readers as an accomplished
pianist and musician, purposes visiting this
country with her family, and will arrive
here early in July.
	QUEEN Victoria lately refused to receive
at a “drawing room” a lady who, having
been divorced from her first husband, still
living, has married again; and this though
her introducer was a duchess.
	MISS Clara Louise Kellog, Miss Adelade
Phillips, and the Temple Quartette, of Bos-
ton, furnished the musical part of the exer-
cises when Mr. Georgo William Curtis de-
livered his memorial oration on Senator Sum-
ner before the State authorities of Massa-
chusetts.
	THE wife of the Rev. Henry W. Hale has
taken with her husband the entire course in
the Baptist Theological Seminary at New-
ton, Mass. and received the usual degree—
the first ever conferred on a woman by that
institution. Both are under appointment as
missionaries.
	MISS Mary E. Woodman, formerly of East
Concord, about a year since went to Liver-
pool with an uncle who is a sea captain, and
from thence she sailed, without friends or
acquaintances, to Oporto, Portugal, where
she opened a select school and gave instruc-
tion in English, French and music. Her
school is now very successful, and is patron-
ized by some of the first families in Oporto.
Her success shows what a brave young girl
can do when she goes to work in earnest.
	MRS. Lizzie Waters, wife of Dr. Waters
of Terre Haute, Ind., is said to be an artist
of unusual talent and promise. For the
past two years she has neglected the easel,
and devoted her time and attention mainly
to the languages. She has, however, par-
tially completed a piece entitled “The Rif-
ted Rock.” for a society in New York, the
contract price of which is $500. It gives
promise of rare beauty, and is entirely or-
riginal.
	A LIFE-LIKE glimpse of the domestic life
of Hawthorne and his wife, is given in “Har-
per’s Magazine,” which says that after the po-
et’s removal from the Salem custom house,
and he didn’t see exactly where future din-
ners were to come from, his wife wrote to
a friend. She said that she met his anxious
face and words by telling him that she had
saved from his earnings enough to keep
them in bread and rice for a few weeks, and
was so glad that he could now write his ro-
mance, and would have a fire kindled im-
mediately in the study. Then she asked
her friend what she could do to keep up the
household supplies when the bread and rice
were gone. This friend, her most affection-
ate counselor through life, knowing Mrs.
Hawthorne’s taste and skill in art,suggested
that she could make lamp-shades in lovely
forms, decorated with figures from Flaxman,
in her beautiful penciling. She employed
herself constantly with this work until
Hawthorne’s first pecuniarily successful
book was published, the “Scarlet Letter.”
the estimate of Mrs. Hawthorne’s mental
powers was very high by those who knew
her best. The one to whom the Easy Chair
is so much indebted for the judgement of
the truest intimacy says that the wife was
not, as has been said, on a different intel-
lectual plane from the husband, although
their mental idiosyncracies were singularly
contrasted, making the equal union only the
more beautiful.


﻿CRUELTY to dumb animals is one of the
distinguishing vices of the basest of the peo-
ple. Wherever it is found, it is a certain
mark of ignorance and meanness; an intrin-
sic mark, which all the external advantages
of wealth, splendor and nobitity cannot ob-
literate.


