DANIEL WEBSTER’S' FIRST PLEA.

	Ebenezer Webster, father of Daniel, was
a farmer. The vegetables in his garden suf-
fered considerably from the depredations of
a woodchuck, whose hold and habitation
was near the premises. Daniel, some ten
years old, and his brother Ezekiel, had set
a trap, and at last succeeded in catching the
trespasser. Ezekiel proposed to kill the
animal and end at once all further trouble
with him; but Daniel looked with compas-
sion upon his meek, dumb captive, and of-
fered to let him go. The boys could not
agree, and each appealed to their father to
decide the case.
	"Well my boys," said the old gentleman,
“I will be the judge and you shall be the
counsel to plead the case for and against his
life and liberty.”
	Ezekiel opened the case with a strong ar-
gument urging the mischievous nature of
the criminal, the great harm he had already
done, said that much time and labor had
been spent in his capture, and now, if suf-
fered to go at large, he would renew his
depredations, and be cunning enough not to
be caught again, and that he ought now to
be put to death; that his skin was of some
value, and that, make the most of him they
could, it would not repay half the damage
he had already done. His argument was
ready, practical, and to the point, and of
much greater length than our limit will al-
low us to occupy in relating the story.
	The father looked with pride upon his
son, who became a distinguished jurist in
his manhood.
	“Now, Daniel, it’s your, turn; I’ll hear
what you’ve got to say.”
	It was his first case. Daniel saw that the
plea of his brother had sensibly affected his
father, the judge; and his large, brilliant
black eyes rested upon the soft, timid ex-
pression of the animal, and he saw it trem-
bled with fear in its narrow prison house.
His heart swelled with pity, and he appeal-
ed with eloquent words that the captive
might go free. God, he said, had made
the woodchuck; He made him to live to en-
joy the bright sunshine, the pure air, the
fields and woods. God had not made him
or anything in vain. The woodchuck had
as much right to live as any other living
thing; he was not a destructive animal, like
the wolf;  he simply ate a few common veg-
etables, of which they had plenty, and could
well spare a part; he destroyed nothing ex-
cept the little food he ate to sustain his
humble life; and that little food was as
sweet to him and as necessary to his exist-
ence as was to them the food on their moth-
er’s table. God furnished their own food.
He gave them all they possessed, and would
they not spare a little for a dumb creature
who really had as much right to his small
share of God’s bounty as they themselves
had to their portion? Yea, more; the ani-
mal had never violated the laws of his na-
ture or the laws of God, as man often did,
but strictly followed the simple instincts he
had received from the hands of the Creator
of all things. Created by God’s hands, he
had a right from God to food, to liberty,
and they had no right to deprive him of
either. He alluded to the mute but earnest
pleadings of the animal for that life, as dear
to him as were their own, and the just
judgment they might expect, if in selfish
cruelty and cold-heartedness they took the
life they could not restore again.
	During the appeal the tears had started
in the old man’s eyes, and were fast running
down his sunburnt cheeks. Every feeling
of a father’s heart was stirred within him,
and he felt that God had blessed him be-
yond the lot of common men. His pity was
awakened by the eloquent words of com-
passion and the strong appeal for mercy;
and, forgetting the judge in the man and
the father, he sprang from his chair (while
Daniel was in the midst of his argument,
without thinking he had already won his
case), and turning to his eldest son, dashing
the tears from his eyes, he exclaimed:
"Zeke, Zeke, you let that woodchuck go.”
—Portfolio.


[For the Exponent.
			THE ORDER.
		BY JANE THORN.
	The subject we have chosen seems to be
setting the minds and tongues of the peo-
ple agog.  We do not think we could have
selected a more suitable one to write about;
inasmuch, as it so nearly concerns our tem-
poral and spiritual welfare.
	The "Order," as it is generally understood,
is going to pull open our purse-strings and
abstract a few dollars therefrom.  But as it
really IS, it is for our own benefit here as
well as hereafter.  Our fathers, husbands
and brothers are continually preaching re-
form—in dress, at table, and in all extrava-
gant display.  How is this to be effected
except by a general movement of the peo-
ple?  We have tried retrenchment societies,
and only the few have entered into them;
the many, still rush onward in their head-
long race after fashion and gaiety, yet some
among them are really good at heart and
anxious to do right.  Here, the "Order"
will effect a general revolution.  We are
firmly convinced that no Mormon, or rather,
no Latter-day Saint will think for a moment
of remaining out of it.  It naturally follows
that our sisters will adopt a style of dress,
more becoming their means and more in ac-
cordance with their religion.
	While lately conversing with a widow
lady, she argued thus:
	"My friend, you have not a family of
children left on your hands to care for. I
shall see that their future is well looked
after and that the Order shall not affect their
interests before I join."  "My dear;" I re-
plied, "can not you  trust them in God's
hands?  You rely on our beloved President
to guide them spiritually, can not you  feel
the same confidence in him, as regards their
earthly welfare?"  She called my views
"spiritualistic"—fancy! spiritualistic.  May
I always be a Spiritualist then.
	We know, as well as the great old French
Emperor, that "women rule the world;"
then, knowing this fact, should we not bring
all our mighty influence to bear, on this,
the great event of our generation?  "Shoul-
der arms!"  my sisters, and "Present arms"
(round your husband's and brother's necks)
and gird on the mighty armor of Truth and
Faith.
	Who was there among us afraid to pitch
our tents in Salt Lake Valley; when the
voice of the Lord, through His servants,com-
manded us to stay our feet for here was our
resting-place. Then, who among us, now,
will refuse to unite our whole efforts to roll
on this grand, mighty Order that will even-
tually prepare us to go back to Jackson
County, build the city of Zion, and be ready
for the second coming of Christ.
	Those who say they will "wait to see how
it is all going to turn out," little know how
much they are losing through their procras-
tination and want of faith.
	Let us rather say, "Go on my husband,"
"Go on my brother, and we will hold up


your arms, even as Aaron did of old. We
will be true and faithful; so that when the
Lamb claims His own, we shall stand by
your side, ready to receive our crowns of
glory and reign Queens forever more."


