DIVERSIONS.

	ABOUT women—Men.
	THE dead of winter—Flies.
	THE hymn for the Centennial—Old Hun-
dred.
	CHEMISTS say no matter is ever lost.
Printers deny it.
	FARMERS gather what they sow, while 
seamstresses sew what they gather.
	A NEW definition for an old maid is, a
woman that has been made a long time.
	"MONEY is very tight," said a thief, who
was trying to break open a bank vault.
	MADDER colors red. This is the reason
why, the madder you get, the redder you 
grow.
	A WESTERN paper announces the death
of a lady celebrated for the "purity of her
character and complexion."
	THE man who wanted to take another
person apart when he had something to say
to him, lately asked for the private ear of a
friend, and was told that privateering was
illegal.
	JENKINS told his son, who proposed to 
buy a cow in partnership, to be sure and buy 
the hinder half, as it eats nothing and gives
all the milk.
	A WRITER in a sympathetic paragraph, ob-
served that "Mr. Smith could hardly bear
the loss of his wife," only to find that the
printer had made it "Mr. Smith could hardly 
bear such a boss for a wife."
	A TRICKY horse-jockey owned a notori-
ously vicious horse that was one day levied 
upon by the sheriff, and advertised to be
sold for debt. "Very well," said the jockey,
if the sheriff can sell that horse to anybody
in this country, he is welcome to do so.
I've tried hard to sell him, and gave it up
long ago."
	AN Indianapolis editor is responsible for
this: "A young lady in Indiana sought to de-
molish an unfaithful lover by publishing
some verses addressed to him, in which,
after prophesying her immediate dissolution
she said: 'Come gaze upon my dust, false 
one.' But the compositor spelled dust with
a 'b.'"
	A MAN sent a note to a rich neighbor
whom he was on friendly terms with, to
borrow an ass for a few hours. The worthy
old man was no scholar, and happened to 
have a guest sitting with him at the time,
that he did not wish to expose his ignorance
to. Opening the note, and pretending to
read it, after reflecting a moment, turning 
to the servant, "Very good," says he; "tell
your master I'll come myself presently."
	WHEN the British ships under Lord Nel-
son were bearing down to attack the com-
bined fleet of Trafalgar, the first lieutenant
of one of the ships, on going round to see
that all hands were at quarters, observed one
of the men devoutly kneeling at the side of 
his gun. Such an atitude in a British sailor
exciting his surprise and curiosity, he went 
and asked the man if he was afraid.
"Afraid?" answered the sailor: "no! I was
only praying that the enemy's shot may be 
distributed in the same proportion as prize-
money—the greater part among the offi-
cers."
	A CUSTOMER came in one day and said,
"Old woman, what do you ask for herring?"
"Three cents apiece," said the old lady.
"I'll take one," says the customer; and the
aged vender proceeded to do it up. "What
do you ask for beer?" said the customer, as
the parcel was handed him. "Three cents
a glass," said she. "On the whole," said 
he, "I'll take a glass of beer instead of the
herring." So he took the beer and started
to go. "Beg your prrdon," said the old
lady, "but you haven't paid for the beer."
"Paid for it! Of course not. Didn't I give
you back the herring for it?" "Well, but,"
persisted the old lady, "you didn't pay for 
the herring!" "Pay for the herring! Of
course I didn't. I didn't take it, did I?"
"Well," said the old woman, after a pause,
in which she strove in vain to master the
mathematics of it, "I presume you're cor-
rect, but I wish you wouldn't trade here
any more."


