FLOWERS.
	BOOKS, like friends, should be well used,
not abused.
	IT is not what we make, but what we save,
that makes us rich.
	IT is conferring a kindness to deny at once 
a favor which you intend to refuse.
	THE weakness of the heart is sometimes
stronger than its strength.
	IF praying does not cause us to leave off
sinning, sinning will soon make us leave off
praying.
	IT is only by labor that thought can be
made healthy, and only by thought that la-
bor can be made happy.
	THE beloved of the Almighty are the rich
who have the humility of the poor, and the
poor who have the magnanimity of the rich.
—“Saadi.”
	AN ass laden with salt was crossing a
brook. The water diluted the salt, and
lightened the burden. He communicated
his discovery to a brother donkey, laden
with wool. The latter tried the same experi-
ment, and found his load double its weight.
	IN these lives of ours, tender little acts
do more to bind hearts together than great
deeds or heroic words, since the first are
like the dear daily bread that none can live
without, the latter but occasional feasts—
beautiful and memorable but not possible to
all.
	DO the very best you can and then take
things as they come. If a man strives with
his best knowledge, energy and untiring la-
bor to accomplish a cortain object, working
with skill and patience, he is a success,
whether the scheme fails or succeeds, and
he ought to reconcile himself to failure if
it is inevitable. If his labors have been
of brain and hand, he is better fitted to suc-
ceed in other undertakings.
	IN all grades of human intelligence and
culture there are three cycles of develop-
ment—the physical, the intellectual, the
spiritual. That which is rational in man is
higher than the animal, and that which is
spiritual higher than the rational. To de-
velop the animal is to develop the lowest
nature—to develop the intellectual is to de-
velop the intermediate nature—to develop
the spiritual is to develop the highest nature
of man—that which makes him God-like,
that which reaches forth to eternity, with
no limit to its growing capacity.


