PEN AND SCISSORS.

	AN ENCHANTED TABLE.—A novel din-
ing-table is now in use in one of the palaces
of the emperor of Russia. The table is cir-
cular, and placed on a weighted platform.
At the touch of a signal, down goes the ta-
ble through the floor, and a new table, load-
ed with fresh dishes and supplies, rises in
its place. But this is not all; each plate
stands on a weighted disk, the table-cloth
being cut with circular openings, one for
each plate. If a guest desires a change of
plate, he touches a signal at his side, when,
presto, his plate disappears, and another
rises. In this country, at the Oneida Com-
munity, they employ dining-tables having
the centre part made to revolve. Here the
goblets, spoons, tea and coffee, castors, pitch-
er, and other necessary articles of table fur-
niture are replaced; by revolving the cen-
ter piece, the sitter brings before him what-
ever article may be desired without the in-
vention of a special waiter.

	WOMEN IN SWITZERLAND.—One hundred
women climb each day to the splendid
buildings which overlook the city of Zurich
—the first fountain of learning in the repub-
lic; a thousand women toil from sunrise till
late evening in the narrow lanes below,
dragging heavy hand-carts, staggering under
large burdens balanced upon their heads,
sawing wood, or gathering the refuse from
the streets with basket and shovel--in short,
performing the most menial service that the
lowest class of male laborers are condemned
to do in America. I have often seen two
slender women sawing oak and ash wood in
the streets, while a stout fellow stood by,
leisurely splitting the sawn sticks. One
poor old creature the other day, sat upon a
curb-stone, holding her saw reversed be-
tween her knees, and in utter weakness was
rubbing the stick of wood upon it to saw it
in two.—Bosthn Advertiser.

	CURIOUS CLOCK.—Among the curiosities
left by the late Senator Sumner was an old
German clock which stood in the hall. Its
case is much like the old pier or hall clocks
that are occasionally seen in old families,
but it has great value. Besides marking
the seconds, minutes, hours, days, months
and years, it shows the phases of the moon,
and indicates other matters of a like nature.
It contains a chime of bells of rare sweet-
ness of tone, and marks the hours, the
halves and quarters with the chime,
sometimes beating a tune. Various bids,
the highest reaching $3,000, have been of-
fered for this clock, but declined. Mrs.
Hastings of San Francisco, Mr. Sumner's
sister, has expressed a desire to have the
clock, and it will be sent to her.

	THE following was written for boys but
we think it is equally as well to girls who
are trying to "work their way in life." A
great many boys complain that there are no
places. Perhaps it is hard to get just such
a place as you like. But when you get a
place—and there are places, for this big
country, we are sure, has need of every
boy and girl and man and woman in it--
when you get a place, make yourself neces-
sary to your employers; make yourself so
necessary by your fidelity and good behavior,
that they cannot do without you. Be will-
ing to take a low price first no matter what
the work is, if it be honest work. Do it as
well as you can. Begin at the very lowest
round of the ladder, if necessary, and climb
up. The great want everywhere is faithful,
capable workers. They are never a drug in
the market. Make yourself one of these,
and there will always be a place for you,
and a good one.

