MOTHERS AND INFANTS AT HOME.

	All mothers are aware that as soon as a
child begins to understand its surroundings,
its mind stretches forth after further infor-
mation. Even before it can either walk or
talk its little hands are put forth to grasp
and examine whatever may come within its
reach. Soon it comes to mother with num-
berless questions on the most unaccountable
subjects and believes that what she says
must be true and puts most implicit faith
in her words. I have often been puzzled to
answer these little questions, for I think it
is very important that we answer them cor-
rectly,as impressions made in childhood are
never effaced. How many mothers fail to
appreciate this loving confidence reposed in
them by their little ones.
	It was distressing to me a short time
since to see the look of wondering doubt de-
picted on the countenance of a little girl at a
most unlikely answer given her by her, not
careless but thoughtless mother, and which
called forth these reflections. How neces-
sary that we should take every opportunity
for adding to our stock of information in
every possible way that we may be ready


to gratify their desire for knowledge and
thus develop within them the germs of
thought and observation, loosing no oppor-
tunity of implanting within them an earnest
faith in God and in his over-ruling provi-
dences.
	I have heard some of my sisters say "I
have no time to read, my family duties occu-
py all my time and attention." I realize that
mothers have plenty, and often too much
work to do but as I heard a beloved sister say
not long since "My spirit needs feeding as
well as my body." After a long, busy day
when all the little ones are peacefully as-
leep I generally sit down and read for half an
hour from choice books or papers which re-
freshes me more than sleep besides furnish-
ing me with food for thought the next day.
I like the EXPONENT for this, its articles are
short and pithy, much in little and to the 
point.
	Being at a neighbor's the other day I
noticed her baby boy try to draw out his
mother's chair and then went to the table,
reached the paper and brought it to her.
She said to me, by way of explanation, "He
wants me to take him." "Sister" I said,
"you are not only learning yourself, by tak-
ing every opportunity to read good read-
ing, but you are instilling into his very na-
ture a love for it, creating an appetite which
will grow with him, and a taste for reading
good books is by no means to be despised for
when the head and  heart is filled with
good there is less room for evil."
