SPLINTERS.
			   LOCAL.
	Father Kington, who joined the church
in England, in the early part of that mis-
sion, died at Wellsville on the 1st.......Mr.
Paul A. Schuttler, City Treasurer, was struck
with paralysis in the right side, since then
he has partially recovered......Elder H. H.
Cluff and wife have recently returned from a
nearly five years mission to the Sandwich 
Islands......The firemen are to have a grand
excursion to Ogden on the 16th.....Soda
Springs, Idaho, is becoming quite a summer
resort....The Military post at Beaver has
been named Fort Cameron in honor of Cel.
Jas. Cameron who was killed in battle, July
21, '61......A P. O. money-order clerk, in
this City, has disappeared since he was
charged with imbezzling four hundred
dollars; though it is said that he "covered
in" the amount.
			SCIENTIFIC.
	The Mammoth, it is rumored, has been
seen alive by a Russian convict: these huge
animals, it is believed, have become extinct
although the bodies of many are still found
in the vast, frozen regions of eastern Sibe-
ria........Silk worms fed with certain propor-
tions of indigo mixed, just before feeding
with the mulberry leaves, are said to have
spun blue cocoons, and when "Bignonia
ched" was used red cocoons were obtained
.....An eminent French physcian, says he
never knew a case of Hydrophobia to fail of
recovery where the patient was repeatedly
treated with vapor baths, varying in heat
from 57 to 63° centigrade.....A national
convention of chemists to be held Aug. 1,
1874, is proposed as a centennial celebration,
1774 being a memorable year for research
and discovery in chemistry.
			GENERAL.
	The Primate of Brazil is dead.....Constan-
tinople has been shaken by an earthquake
.......A cooper named Cullman, on the 13th,
attempted to assassinate Prince Bismarck
who escaped, the ball only grazing his wrist
.....The war in Spain is unabated......A vi-
olent thunder storm in London on the 11th,
resulted in several fatal accidents......A res-
ervoir at Middlefield, Mass., covering nearly
one hundred acres, broke away flooding the
country before it. No loss of life is repor-
ted.....The question as to whether a brewer
is eligible to the office of an elder in the free 
church of Scotland has been raised.....Ten
counties in Minnesota and Iowa are devas-
tated by the grasshoppers......The Medical
Faculty in New York have held a meeting
to consider the best method of treating Hy-
drophobia, now so prevalent there.....Dr.
Julius Eckman, the pioneer Jewish Rabbi
in California, died in San Francisco on the
5th......The tailoreses of New York are
organizing a protective union......Ice is
bought for $1,50 a ton in Maine, and sold
for $29 in New York......The Ohio papers
are dicusssing the new State constitution,
which is to be voted by the people, next
August.......A lady student takes the high-
est honors at the Indiana State University
this year....A woman advertises in a Min-
esota paper that she will tell in her lectures,
what makes Mormonism so attractive to the
men......There were very destructive floods,
last month, in the Rio Grande valley, sev-
eral towns washed away and large tracts of
cultivated land inundated......Miss Francis
E. Willard was defeated in the Illinois Re-
publican Convention as a candidate for State
Superintendent of Public Instruction......
The General Assembly of The Established
Church of Scotland have unanimously given
the right of suffrage to all female commu-
nicants.
			LITERARY.
	Dr. Livingstone's son has given up a prom-
ising career in Egypt for the purpose of ed-
iting the correspondence and other literary
materials left by his father.....Blanchard
Jerrold is writing a “Life of Napoleon III”
from materials supplied by the Empress Eu-
genie......In Paris, painting is said to pay
better than writing......The Emperor of
China has commanded a selection of Chinese
poetry from the earliest ages, to be formed.
The Emperor’s library contains over 400,
000 volumes......“Othello” has been pub-
lished in the Hebrew language at Vienna
......Ralph Waldo Emerson, the author, is in
his seventy-second year.
			PERSONAL.
	C. F. Conant of New Hampshire has ac-
cepted the office of Asst. Secretary of the
Treasury.....Chief-Justice Waite will spend
the summer at St. Albans, Vt.......Marshal
Concha, of the Republican army in Spain
was killed in a late battle with the Carlists
......The Pope is reported to be growing
weaker daily......John Mitchell, the noted
Irish exile sailed for Ireland on the 11th
inst. He expects to become a candidate
for Parliament.....Agnes Strickland, an
historical writer, died on the 13th, aged
68......Rev. H. W. Beecher asks for an in-
vestigation and Theodore Tilton is willing
to help the matter along.


