HOME AFFAIRS.

	HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon arrived home, from
Washington, on the 1st inst. Several promi-
nent citizens went by special train to Ogden to
quietly welcome our honored Territorial Dele-
gate.
	The “FOURTH” was celebrated in the Settle-
-ments generally by appropriate ceremonies. In
this city it was the quietest one known for
years but none the less enjoyable. Excursions
seemed to be the favorite means of recreation.
	A TEMPORARY guard-house has been estab-
lished in the city, by the officer in command at
Camp Douglass. It is situated on first South
street. A provost guard, consisting of one com-
missioned officer and several soldiers are to be
stationed there night and day to look after dis-
orderly soldiers.
	MR. GEORGE B. Taylor the Supreme Com-
mander of the Independent Champion of the
Red Cross in the United States, delivered a lec-
ture on the “Horrors of the Liquor Traffic" at
the Old Tabernacle, on the 12th. The lecturer
ably treated his subject and was listened to with
good attention.
	A FIERCE thunder and rain storm occurred
about the 6th inst. in this locality. Houses in
this City, at West Jordan and Bountiful were
struck with lightning, frightening the inmates
and injuring the buildings. At West Jordan
two children, in the house that was struck, were
killed, and in the vicinity two horses and a cow
were also killed.
	A MEETING held at Tooele City, July 13,
placed the following names on the People’s
Ticket, for Tooele County: for representative in
the Legislature, George Atkin; probate judge,
John Roberry; sheriff, W. H. Lee; recorder, R.
Warburton; selectman, G. W. Bryan; treasur-
er, F. Atkin, Jr.: supt. of common schools, A.
Galloway.
	THE MINUTES of the City Council held Tues,
14th inst., contain the following in relation to
the grand Jubilee, to take place on the Twenty-
fourth: Petition of George Goddard on behalf
of the executive committee on the coming jubi-
lee, asking that Washington Square be thrown
open for teams coming in the city from the
south on the day of the jubilee; also that places
be set apart for teams coming to the city from
the north on that day, and that guards be pro-
vided to protect property, was referred to the
marshal, with instructions to act in accordance
with the prayer of the petition.
	A PROCLAMATION by the governor of the
Territory, dated July 14th, fixes the times and
places of holding the Territorial Supreme and
District Courts as follows: The Supreme Court
to be held in this city, on the second Monday
in January and the first Monday in June of
each year. The First District Court to be held
in Provo, on the third Monday in the months
of September, November, February and May
of each year. The Second District Court to be
held in Beaver City, on the first Monday in
September, November, February and April, re-
spectively, of each year. The Third District
Court to be held in Salt Lake City, on the first
Monday in the months of October, December,
March and May respectively of each year.
	THE FOLLOWING order has been issued by the
Supreme Court.
	“Territory of Utah, }
	 Supreme Court,     }
			“SALT LAKE CITY, July 8, 1874.
	“Present, McKean, Chief Justice, Emerson,
Associate.
	“It is ordered that the following persons be,
and they are hereby appointed commissioners
of this Court, to have and exercise the author-
ity and duties conferred by law, to wit:
	“Charles W. Emerson, to reside at Provo
City, First Judicial District.
	“James R. Wilkins, to reside at Beaver, Sec-
ond Judicial District.
	“Dennis J. Toohy and N. Kimball,'to reside
at Salt Lake City, Third Judicial District."
	THE FOLLOWING extract from the Millennial
Star of June 16, concerning the unusually low
fares this season, may be of interest to those
who still have friends in Europe. “The next
company will leave Liverpool on the 24th of
this month, (June) the fare to Ogden being the
same as that of the present company—namely,
adults, £12 16—children, under twelve years,
at half fare, and infants, under 1 year, 10 shill-
ings each, with the benefit of any reduction
that there might be at the time of booking the
passengers. Children under five years, will go
free of charge on the railroad from New York.
	It is impossible to say how long these low
prices across the sea will continue; but, un-
doubtedly, the breach—which has caused the
reduction from six guineas to three pounds,
from Liverpool to New York—if not restored
will, as far as possible, be repaired by the ship-
ping companies interested, as soon as they can
effect that object."


