			PRAYER.

	The importance of prayer is something
that we should study more than we do, for
I do not think any of us fully realize how
necessary prayer is to our happiness. With-
out it we cannot become true Saints in
thought,  word and deed. We must have
the Spirit of God continually with us in or-
der to live our religion faithfully, and that
Spirit can only be obtained and retained
through earnest prayer.
	We are taught that we must be tried even
as gold seven times purified. This seems as
though we were to be pretty severely tried,
yet through constant prayer to our Heavenly
Father we will obtain strength from Him
so that we will be enabled to pass through
every ordeal so easily that we will scarcely
realize that we are being tried. Then, Oh!
how careful we should be to humble our-
selves daily before the Lord to seek His
strength, comfort and guidance. There is
no true happiness in taking any other course;
it is true, we may have fleeting pleasures
that will vanish away but through prayer
and humility, we may have constant peace,
joy and contentment—three of the greatest
boons that were ever given to mortal beings.
I often feel that it would be as impossible
for me to be a saint without prayer as it
would for our natural bodies to exist without
food. We have heard it said that the step-
ping stone to apostacy is the neglect of
prayer, and I truly believe this to be so, for
the mind becomes darkened and, conse-
quently the Evil  One has a good chance to
slip in and introduce doubt and false doc-
trines when, if we were living in the line
of our duty, we would instantly repel the
first advance of the adversary directed
against our true peace. Finding fault with
those in authority is generally the starting
point of these evils, so that if we ever have
this feeling we may know to what it will
lead us if not checked. I would exhort my
young sisters, while in the beginning of life
to attend strictly to their prayers and they
will always have wisdom to know the right
from the wrong and have power given them
to choose the right under all circumstances
that they may be instruments in the hands
of God in helping to roll forth this great and
glorious latter-day work.			M. A. F.


[For the Exponent.]
