HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Dyspepsia.—The following extract was
commended to our notice by an experienced 
physician.:—Consider for a moment how
vast an amount of our personal misery, to
say nothing of the actual sin and of the
wretchedness which our consequent ill-tem-
per brings on others, arises from dispepsia.
Perhaps this malady is answerable, directly
or indirectly, for more unhappiness, and does
more to lower the general tone and average
of human enjoyment, than any other. We
all of us know something of it, many of us
know it well; we can estimate, in some
measure, how much the cheerfulness and
brightness of our daily life is impaired by
its pernicious prevalence, how it saps good
spirits, how it sours good temper. Well,
how obvious are its causes; in most instan-
ces, how possible its cure! How many of
us toil half our life to earn it, begin early in
its cultivation, dig for it as for hidden treas-
ures! We generally lay the foundation for
it in childhood, or in our first youth, by reck-
less and ignorant self-indulgence—the faults
of parents and teachers, you will say, and
what they could have checked in time had
they known and valued the laws of physiol-
ogy. True, but we ourselves are, or have
been, or will be, those very parents and
teachers. Then, do we not ourselves com-
mit much the same follies as our children,
when we eat, as we habitually do, more than
is good for us; when we eat, as most of us
do, what we know will disagree with us;
when the pleasures of the palate tempt us
to do more than satisfy our hunger or recruit
our strength; when we drink alcohol, not
because we need it, but because we like it;
when we take a second glass, not because a
second was required, but because the first
was very good; when smoking becomes a
regular habit, instead of an occasional in-
dulgence; In all these cases we are sowing
seeds for an inevitable harvest—we are dili-
gently earning our wages and incurring a
recorded obligation. If only all wages were
as well earned and all debts as certain to be
paid! When we sit lazily in our arm-chair
under circumstances which indicate that we
ought to be in active exercise; when we sit
in close rooms and in a vitiated atmosphere, 
instead of breathing the clear air of heaven;
when we go on toiling and thinking long
after our sensations warn us that we have
expended the income and are drawing on
the capital of our cerebral strength; when-
ever, in a word, we neglect the plainest
physiological laws (which it is difficult not
to read whenever our attention is drawn to
them), then we are laying the foundation of
that functional disorder of the digestive or-
gans which entails so certain and so sad a
penalty. I am sceptical about stomach ail-
ments which a man has done nothing to de-
serve. I scarcely believe in any which
either he or his progenitors have not worked
hard to generate. I believe, moreover, that
those are few which, however induced origi-
nally, may not be cured or kept in bounds,
even after mature age is reached, by sedu-
lous care scientifically directed. We are
most of us familiar with the case of Cornaro, 
who, awakening at forty years of age to
the consciousness of a shattered constitution,
yet contrived, by sagacious observation and
incessant vigilance, to recover the tone of
an outraged and enfeebled stomach, and
lived in laughing comfort to a green old age.
—"Enigmas of Life."

	BORAX FOR COLDS.—A writer in The
Medical Record cites a number of cases in
which borax has proved a most effective
remedy in certain forms of colds. He states
that in sudden hoarseness or loss of voice
in public speakers or singers, from colds, re-
lief for an hour or so, as by magic, may be
often obtained by slowly dissolving, and
partially swallowing, a lump of borax the
size of a garden pea, or about three or four
grains held in the mouth for ten minutes
before speaking or singing. This produces
a profuse secretion of saliva, or "watering"
of the mouth and throat, probably restoring
the voice or tone to the dried vocal cords,
just as wetting brings back the missing
notes to a flute when it is too dry.


MRS. Gove who has been in charge of the
W. U. Telegraph office at Los Angelos has
resigned on account of ill health, and Miss
M. E. Little formerly assistant in the office
has charge of it.


