[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | November | Issue: 5 | Title: D. R. Toasts | Author: Unknown]

D. R. TOASTS.
	Delivered at the Daughters of the Revo-
lution Banquet given at the Lion House,
12th November, in honor of Mrs. Fitz, Presi-
dent-General of the National D. R. Society.
	The Pioneer Women of Utah came of a
fine, patriotic line of ancestry, many of their
forefathers, their grandparents were of the
old stanch colonial patriots who came to
America as early as 1830, and a few even at
a period prior to that. Their progeniters
held positions of trust in church and state,
were in the Revolution as officers and sol-
diers,and fought at Lexington, Bunker Hill,
Cowpens, Stillwater, Bennington, Quebec,
Saratoga; were with Washington at Valley
Forge the memorable winter of 1777 and
1778, in fact, all through the Revolution
until the surrender of Cornwallis at York
Town. Our Pioneer Women in connection
wtth the men of 47-8 suffered the privation,
want, almost starvation incident to their


long three months’ march across the deso-
late untraversed plains west of the Mississ-
ippi to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake.
They helped to lay the first connecting link
between the Great East and Far West,
which made travel safe and emigration sure.
They carded, spun and wove the cloth that
protected and clothed their families, they
cooked, sewed, washed and made their
homes comfortable and always gave a cord-
ial welcome to the stranger within our gates.
They, in some instances helped plant and
harvest the crops, and although many of
them had been well educated and tenderly
cared for all their former lives, in times of
extreme danger on the frontier they guarded
their homes and babies from the attacks of
marauding Indians, while husbands and
sons were in other parts, providing food or
in the discharge of duties.
	Like our Colonial Dames, our Revolution
Grandmothers, they gave their strong sup-
port, iheir heart’s love, hope, faith, fidelity
and patriotism in colonization work, in
helping establish the great commonwealth
in this western wild of America.
	God bless their memories, and may we,
their daughters and granddaughters, never
do ought that will desecrate, mar or cast a
shadow upon the character of our true, hon-
orable, heroic mothers, the Pioneer Women
of Utah.
		JULIA P. M. FARNSWORTH.
					U. S. S. Historian.


Toast given at the Lion House, Nov. 12,
1909, by Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber:
Madam Regent, President-General and
	Daughters:
	It is my happy previlege this evening on
