[Vol10 | November 1923 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for January]

We have now reached the period of the New England Re
GUIDE LESSONS | 575 naissance, and as this has always been regarded as a very improtant period, in our literary output, we shall devote two or even three lessons to an author if it seems desirable. John Greenleaf Whittier's earliest ancestor in America was Thomas Whittier, an Eng lishman who settled in what is now Amesbury, Massachusetts, in 1638. About a decade later, the family removed to Haverhill, Massachusetts. The youngest son of Thomas Whittier married a Quakeress, and their desendants, the poet being one of them, were very many of them Friends. The poet's mother was descended from Reverend Stephen Bachiler, a clergyman of the English Church who became a Nonconformist, and finally removed to Massachusetts in 1632. In Pickard's "Life of Whittier" we read that it was the Bachiler eye, dark, deepthe cousinship that existed between Daniel Webster and John Greenleaf Whittier. Whittier reflects in his writings the rural life of New England which he knew so well. The poet's early days were spent on a typical New England farm, with its green pastures, huckleberry bushes, gurgling brooks and rocky falls. As a young man he was handsome but frail in body; so that the lighter chores on the farm were assigned to him. About thirty odd books were to be found in the home library; these he read and reread until he had sapped their contents. Finally a country peddler chanced at the door with a volume of Burns' poems. Whittier was stirred to the very fiber of his being as he read and reread these songs of "bonnie Scotland," for he was to become the future writer of the songs of his native country, and for this reason he is aptly styled the Burns of America. A little later, a volume of Shakespeare fell into his hands which he read with the same eagerness with which he had read Burns. As he grew older, he became very much interested in politics, and was making very fair progress towards political JOHN G. WHITTIER seated, lustrous, which marked 
 preferment when the Abolition movement loomed on the horizon. He thought the matter over in a very deliberate fashion and finally made up his mind to cast his lot with the Abolitionists, despising from the bottom of his soul not the slave owners, but the system that made such an outrage possible. He knew full well that by lending his talents to so unpopular a cause he was sacrificing his own political career, yet he did not hesitate in the matter. He was greatly encouraged by both his mother and his sister, in his fight for the abolition of slavery. He became at once one of the leaders of the movement, sought after for advice and counsel by those who were conducting the Abolition campaign. Through his fiery songs, he struck terror to his opponents. We all of us recognize the power of his "Barbara Fritchie," "The Slave Ships" and "The Farewelf of a Virginia Slave Mother." His connection with the Abolition movement prescribed the subject of his songs for a somewhat lengthy period of time, stilling his voice so far as his own native songs were concerned. Then, too, it must be remembered that in addition to his poetry, he wrote a considerable amount of prose for papers that had espoused the Abolition cause. He was at one time the editor of the "New England Review," then the leading whig organ in the country. Whittier's character, like Longefellow's, was above reproach; justice, generosity, tenderness and a child-like trust in God characterized him throughout his life. Most of the poems that have given Whittier his place in literature were written in the latter and more tranquil part of his life when he y was free, as he expressed it, to let, "Old, harsh voices of debate Flow into rythmic song." The Quaker poet is one of the first among our writers of historical ballads, "Skipper Ireson's Ride' and 'How the Women Went From Dover" being notable examples of real literary achievement in this field. Mr. Bronson says, "There is no better introduction to certain phases of New A history than some of these unpretentions poems." Among his ballads, "Maud Muller,' is perhaps the most popular. Many of us will recall how generally it was declaimed in public when we where in our childhocd and early womanhood. It was full of the fragrance of the meadows, and presents a tragic phase of life, both for the rich and for tle poor, because of the bondage of social custom. Many people are particularly enthusiastic over "Telling the Bees,' a ballad of much merit. Its descriptive passages, as well as its "delicate love pathos," to employ the words of another, has touched many hearts. "The Barefoot Boy" and "In School Days" are in very much the same class GUIDE LESSONS 577 as "Telling the Bees;" they too, are full of tenderness and pathos. In the "Barefoot Boy" we have a picture of a New England country boy that might suggest Whittier, himself, when a lad. The other is a memory of child-love in "The Little School House by the Road." It is full of purity and childish tenderness and has no doubt brought back the memory of early school-day associations to thousands of readers. A heart cord has been struck by Whittier in these ballads of simple life, a cord that has vibrated since the time the poems were written and will continue to find response in the hearts of people as long as they live a simple and natural life.. We have selected to discuss in this lesson only a few ot Whittier's minor poems. His great winter idyl, "Snowbound" will be the theme of our next lesson. Questions 1. Read one of Whittier's poems on slavery to the class and see if you think such a poem would assist in creating a sentiment against slavery. 2. Read "Maud Muller" to the class and suggest wherein the poor and the rich are fettered through custom. 3. Read "In School Days" and see if you have any personal memories or any memories of associates who probably had an experience very similar to this when in elementary school. 4. Read "The Barefoot Boy" and select the various words and phrases in the poem that go to make up the description of the little fellow. Do you think Whittier's descriptive words and phrases are selected with taste and skill? 5. If you have time, read "Telling the Bees" and seek to discover what are the characteristics that have made it so popular.. Note-??Our beloved past president, the late Emmeline B. Wells, was a guest in the home of John Greenleaf Whittier, during one of her visits to the East. On that occasion she had the pleasure of an afternoon with the poet and his sister, who was also gifted as a poet. Lesson IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January) THE FIELD OF SOCIAL WELFARE FoREWoRD For two years in the Social Service Dept., Relief Society women have been studying the home; home leadership; the social 
 life of youth insomuch as it bears upon their physical, moral, and educational preparation for home life; the husband and wife relation; the parent relationship; the parent and child relationship. For the coming year, the plan is to study the family in its relationship to society. The object of the course will be to learn the importance of normal family life, and the needs of normal family life, and how best to meet these needs; also to learn how to overcome some of the social ills that affect family life, and interfere with normal living. For reference, we suggest any book on sociology used in the schools, also, "Normal Life," by Dr. Edward T. Devine, which is for sale by Deseret Book Company. -The study of man and his effort to get along with his fellow men, or to make a satisfactory social adjustment, is occupying some of the best minds of the present day. Colleges, research laboratories, welfare foundations and organizations, and numerous professional social workers throughout the country are making a scientific study of man, of his physical and mental make-up, of his activities, and of his reactions to certain situations and influences. In the development of every individuai, he comes in contact with certain influences and institutions which in a large measure determine the extent and character of his growth. This contact with these institutions, influences, and forces, Overcoming some and adjusting to others, is a lifelong process through which every member of society passes. It is the concern of those studying man's social problems, that the influences which are wholesome and constructive shall be encouraged, while those which are unwholesome and destructive shall be eliminated. Any survey or study, any school or church, any legislative movement, or any agency or organization that contributes to the upbuilding of. Family and community life?to the upbuilding of constructive social forces generally, and to the reduction of the undesirable forces, is part of the general field of social welfare. The institutions which mainly influence the individual and his development, and in which, therefore, the sociologist is deeply interested and concerned, are (1) the home, (2) the church, (3) the school, and (4) the community. THE HOME. The oldest and most important social institution is the family. It is not only the biological unit of society, but it is the medium through which the social heritage of the race is handed down from one generation to another. Usually, the child learns the spoken language in the family group. Social traditions and standards of conduct are first brought to an individual's consciousness in the home. In the family, he learns some of the fundamental principles of human relationship; he GUIDE LESSONS 579 learns to associate and cooperate with his brothers and sisters who are his equals on the social plane, and to recognize and respect the superior position of his parents. The home, besides being the means of transmitting the social heritage to the child, is responsible for the physical and material progress of the members of the group. For the first few years of its life, the child is entirely dependent for its development on the care it receives. Its very life is endangered if food, shelter, and care are not intelligently provided for it. Problems of health continue throughout childhood, and it is always one of the main functions of the home to protect the health of its members. The first lessons of income and industry are first taught in the home. By performing certain simple duties and tasks the child learns the necessity and dignity of labor, and of the economic inter-dependence of individuals on one another. The nature of his experience and lessons in the home, will perhaps determine his later understanding and progress in the industrial world. Aithough the formal education of the individual is now recognized as a community responsibility, the family is responsible for the nature and amount of school work done by its various members. The regularity of attendance, the amount of time devoted to study, the number of years allowed for school work, before the children enter industry, are decided, generally, by the educational standards of the family. Whether an individual is to have opportunity for needed relaxation and expression through play and recreation is also determined by family standards. Whether recreation is to be wholesome development or unwholesome dissipation depends to a great extent on the home environment and family standards. The family, too, is responsible for the religious training of the child. It is in the family circle that the first and most lasting religious ideals are absorbed. The faith gained from simple family teachings and worship, remains a potent influence through an individual's life. THE CHURCH. The religious beliefs of an individual become a controlling factor in his conduct and social adjustment. His philosophy of life, his aims and standards, are all a result of his spiritual attitude. A desire to progress, and a courage to continue to struggle, in the face of disappointment and adversity, are traits more often found in a religious person than in one spiritually indifferent. Real social stability is a characteristic of religious people, for religious teachings strengthen human ties by emphasizing the ideals of chastity, honor, the sanctity of the home, love, and human service. THE SCHOOL. The school is another institution which 
 influences the development and controls the social adjustment of the individual. The school should train each individual for later economic independence, so that he can provide for himself and family, and should give him sufficient education so that he will have some appreciation of the civilizaton of which he is a part, and of the cultural heritage to which he is an heir. The student should be given an insight into the development of society and be made to understand his responsibility for the perpetuation and development of the race. THE COMMUNITY. Each community in its civic and political organization is a social unit. The number of individuais who are malnourished, handicapped, or who die of preventable disease, is an index to the community's health standard. The number who are exploited by capital, the number of children in industry, the number of women engaged in unwholesome labor, and the prevalency of gambling, vice, delinquency, and crime, indicate the degree of the community's industrial and moral control. The constructive work of the home, the church, and the school, to be effective, should be supported by high community standards and cooperative community effort. ' References: Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, Chapters 1 and 2.