[Vol10 | November 1923 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Home | Title: Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart]

Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart
SELECTION AND CARE OF KITCHEN UTENSILS
Since the kitchen is the laboratory or the workshop of the home, greater care in the selection of its equipment should be taken than is manifested by many housekeepers. It would be absurd to think of a farmer trying to till the soil without the necessary tools, such as a plow, harrow, etc., but many housewives try to keep an attractive workshop without proper equipment. Tools for the kitchen are selected so that there are enough to carry on all the processes easily, but with no useless implements. A wise choice is sometimes difficult because of the variety on the market, many of which are attractive but not useful to the buyer. Equipment should be considered from the point of the one who uses it. A large expense is justifiable if articles are used intelligently, but fewer and less expensive ones are better for the careless worker, because they can be replaced easier. A good utensil must be of good construction and workmanship, capable of easy and thorough cleaning and adapted for the use for which it is intended. It should be unaffected by high temperature or by the action of water, acid or alkali. It should be non-absorbent of grease and not give flavor or color to food. Seams, angles, and creases should be avoided as should all materials which easily tarnish, rust or break. Smooth surfaces,
OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 565
rounded corners and well finished edges are best. Many a utensil serves well the particular thing for which it is made but if only used occasionally it may be more bother than worth. Frequency of use and amount of storage room should be considered in connection with easy and complete cleaning. In general, a few thoroughly good utensils are preferable to many articles of inferior grade.
Other points to consider, in connection with the construction, are the shape, size, handles, covers and lips. A utensil with a large, flat bottom and a relatively small opening at the top will heat more quickly and retain the heat longer than the reverse form. The size depends on the use it is to have, the number in family, and the food to be cooked. Too large a kettle is not only an expense in purchasing but is expensive to use and care for. Handles should be well balanced, not too long nor too short, too big nor too small. They should fit the hand with ease and should be so placed as not to get hot. Covers should fit in such a way as to retain the heat and be easily removed. They are best with an edge that turns up so that in case of food boiling over it does not get into the crack. Perforated covers which can be opened or closed are good especially on utensils used for cooking vegetables. Lips, if properly placed, are conveniences; otherwise they are useless. A double-lipped kettle or pan makes both left and right hand pouring easy.
There are so many materials on the market, and so many grades of each material, that it is sometimes difficult for the housewife to choose wisely her utensils, but whichever material is chosen, the best grade is economy, in most cases. Enameled ware is suited to many uses. It is made by fusing a species of glass onto a metal, usually iron or steel, thus giving a smooth, glossy surface, easily cleaned and unaffected by any except the strongest acid. When of good quality it does not chip readily and stands a wide range of temperature, but it should not be subjected to intense heat or to sudden change of temperature. This, together with rough, careless handling, causes the chipping which is the chief objection to its use. Bits of enamel may get into the food. It is a good material for such utensils as double boilers, sauce pans, measuring cups, etc.
Earthen ware is another glazed material, the glaze being applied on clay. It is never warranted. It may soon chip or crack or it may wear for many years. It holds the heat well and is desirable for casseroles or ramekins, but glass is fast taking its place. The latter does not chip or discolor, has a smooth surface with neither seams nor sharp corners. It may be used for many things. It is desirable and convenient when food is to be cooked


and served in the same dish, or wherever transparency adds to utility.
Aluminum gives clean, light, strong dishes, usually very durable, except for the poorer, cheaper grades. It does not chip, is unbreakable, and with reasonable care lasts indefinitely. It does not rust but in time loses its luster which does not impair its usefulness. Strong alkalies should be avoided in cleaning it. A satisfactory cleanser is fine, steel wool. True, the best aluminum ware is expensive when the initial cost only is considered, but it will outwear many of the other materials.
Iron and steel are the strongest and most desirable utensils for some purposes, but are also the heaviest. This ware stands intense heat, is easily cleaned when smooth and grows smoother with use. The frying pan, soup kettle, griddle, and waffle irons are best of this material.
Tin melts at a comparatively low temperature, is easily scratched and rusts readily. It is a good material for measuring cups, cutters, molds and utensils which receive light usage.
Wood absorbs fats and odors, but is desirable where a smooth, hard, elastic surface is needed, as in molding boards, rolling pins, chopping bowl, etc. Wooden spoons are good for many purposes because they are stiff and strong and do not impart color or flavor to food unless used carelessly.
Cutlery
Perhaps no part of the kitchen equipment is neglected or abused more than the knives. They should be of the best steel, well tempered and kept sharp if they are a good investment. Good knives are comparatively expensive, but a knife for each purpose, well cared for, is economy.
The advantages and disadvantages of new pieces of equipment that come onto the market should be studied carefully, and if they will save time and worry in the kitchen, it is well to plan for them. The housekeeper should study her own particular needs and make a definite plan for the purchase of her equipment. Those utensils that save strength and time should be considered first, because it means economy of health and life which every homemaker should seek to conserve.