[Vol10 | November 1923 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Old Man Clegg]

Old Man Clegg It was Thanksgiving day; I had unloaded case after case ci oranges. It was almost noon, soon we would hear the whistles, so welcome to one unloading at a wholesale fruit dealer's. The manager came to me and having, what I considered then, an impulse of generosity, said with some reluctance, that I might take two hours off for dinner if I so wished. I thanked him, but my inner soul burned with a feeling of injustice; why shouldn't I have the whole day at home? As I treaded wearily homeward, my thoughts wandered rebelliously, What have I to be thankful for? I toil every day, and receive a remuneration for an ordinary fare, our rent, and just enough clothes to keep us covered. The pleasant sunshine only added more bitterness to my feelings, and a stronger desire to be free for the day. In this mood I entered the house: my wife met me with her ever affectionate smile; God bless her, she never complains, and I noticed that dinner was spread in the dining room, with extra leaves in the square extension, which meant "something special. She, with her lips very, near to my ear, whispered that she had invited Old Man Clegg from across the way to have dinner with us. This pleased me, as I have always considered it a duty to be kind to the lonely. We were seated at the table; everything was steaming hot, pouring off a luxuriant smell from the roast chicken, which was enough to make any one intensely hungry. Partly from a sense of duty, and yet mechanically, I asked the old man to return thanks. His voice rang with intense sincerity, while he offered up thanks for every thing, and as I glanced around the vase of geraniums, into his supremely intelligent and divine face, my conscience began to smart. Dinner passed on very pleasantly. The others seemed to enjoy every morsel, especially our ten-year-old boy, Joe, who called for his third dish of plum pudding, which his mother refused him, for she was already worried over the amount he had devoured. But my thoughts were in a state of perplexity; what could a poor old, lonely man, deprived of all the comforts of life, have to be so very thankful for. When all had finished eating, I suggested that Mr. Clegg favor us with some of his pioneer experiences, and Dorothy, clapping her hands, said, "Start when you were a little boy." Giving an affirmative nod, and an appreciative smile, as if pleased with the consideration shown him, slowly and thoughtfully he began: "Well  my childhood, in old Virginia, was one unbroken sy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dream of sunshine, so of course that needs no history. When I was twenty-two I married my Marian, and I don't think a couple more devoted to each other ever lived. After office hours, we would enjoy ourselves in our little flower garden, and soon the whole yard appeared as a wilderness of roses. In five years we were blessed with three children, the oldest a boy, and the other two, girls; and their jovial voices, within the vinecovered walls, made it home indeed."  "Then came the time that we heard of our blessed gospel; never will I forget when we were converted, how our very souls were filled with the spirit; and with great happiness, we parted with our little home. And started with a train of converts to cross the plains to Utah. This was in the summer of 1852." "We all had our hardships to contend with; still, in the evenings we had merry times, joining in the singing and the simple dancing." The old man sat staring into space, he seemed to be living again the past; we were listening attentively, and then, recovering his self possession, he went on, "It was during one very warni afternoon, we were jogging along slowly, when one of the oxen took fright which caused a stampede. Our baby was asleep in the back of the wagon, and after things quieted down, we found that she was badly injured, and three days later we were obliged to leave her little lifeless body by the roadside. My poor wife was almost stricken to her bed, but, as I looked into her dear face, I was thankful, yes, thankful that she was still with me, and silently I offered up a prayer that she would always be near me, even to the end of my existence.. "We arrived in the valley of Great Salt Lake, and as time went on, the rough edges of our sorrow seemed to wear off; and in a short time we were the proud possessors of a small but commodious log cabin. With the exception of the Indians, who used to intrude themselves upon us and help themselves, happiness in this cabin reigned supreme." The tears glistened in the old man's eyes, and I could see that he had something sad to impart, but with only a deep sigh he continued, "One night after working all day at the neighboring farm, I was late coming home; the children came to meet me and very excitedly told me that their mother was terribly ill. I rushed to her side and found her in a delirium with fever. Frantically I ran for the elders and the old doctor, living a short distance from our place, but it seemed her end had come, for all they did was of little use, for she passed away! I will not bother you with pathetic details, but wiil say that the good elders after strenuous efforts, impressed upon me that I. Still had two lovely children who depended upon me. "Devoting all my time to my Bob and Bessie, I soon OLD MAN CLEGG 553 came to realize that I had a great deal to be thankful for; the comfort they were to me, words could never tell, for I felt that I must be both father and mother to them. How well I remember Bessie's little arms about me holding me in fond embrace; and Bob, dear little fellow! One memory picture of him stands out more clearly perhaps than any of the others. I had punished him for teasing his sister and then a few minutes later, I listened to his childish prattling with a little friend about his own age. They were disputing over their dads, and Bob boasted that I was the strongest and best Dad in all the world. How my heart was filled with admiration, I could not resist seizing him and smothering him with kisses??yes, life was quite cheerful wth those two loving little souls near me, and thus it passed on, uninterrupted by any real sorrows. "It was haying time, Bess was now seventeen; she came to. Me wi ha hug, an every day occurrence, and looked timorously into my face. I noticed she was trembling and began to feel a little alarmed. After a pause she told me how dearly she had always loved me, but, there was someone else she also loved, and he was waiting in the other room to see me. Thinking it was only Bert, her sweetheart from childhood, and knowing his true character, I only intended to try and persuade them to wait a little longer.. But to my amazement, he was a perfect stranger, and wanted to take my Bessie away. I afterwards learned that they had been meeting for two or three weeks secretly. "I could not think of Bessie leaving me to marry out of the Church, which to me is life itself; so I cautiously and kindly explained how such a marriage would be impossible, and with all their coaxing, I would not yield, for I thought that I was doing right. "Bessie said no more, and I thought she was reconciled, but when I came home the follownig evening, my Bessie was not there; only a short note to say that although 'she loved me dearly, she could not live without him. I never heard from her for three years; but for several years past, the first of the week brings me a le'ter filled with love and tenderness. At first a check was enclosed, but I informed her that I was. Making a fair living with my pen, which also served to keep me company. "When Bessie left, how I clung to Bob, and Bob was true blue; I could not have asked for a better and more thoughtful boy, and although I sometimes felt very despondent, I would try to assume cheerfulness for the sake of the boy, until we became almost inseparable, just like a couple of old pals. "One of the neighbor's boys started coming to the house, and before very long he was a frequent visitor. I did not care for his appearance, yet I did not wish to judge harshly, so I said nothing. 
 "Then Bob started to remain' out nights. I was worried and lonesome, too, but I tried to convince myself that he needed younger companions, and thinking only of his happiness, and trusting him, I did not complain. "He did not mend his ways, but instead his hours of returning home at night grew later, until I began to use all my parental influence, but without avail. Finally the odor of liquor that scented the house when he came in nearly drove me to distraction. "At last the climax came; it was in the wee hours of the morning. Bob was still out, and as he had no mother to wait for him, I felt in duty bound to remain up until he came in. I met him at the gate; he was staggering shamefully and I was dis-. Pleased with him and overcome with disgust. Without considering, I gave him a tongue lashing, not in profane language, but I appealed to his pride, and to the shame he had cast upon his dead mother. Oh, if I had only waited until the next morning when my boy was himself, how much different things might have been for me, for my boy was always kind and gentile and never stooped to any cruelty. But it seemed under this influence, some vehement power had hold of him, and to my: horror, he blurted - out, "To with you, and Mother, too!' "Nothing could have hurt me worse, I could not control myself, I slapped him as I would a very disobedient child. He was filled with rage, and, seizing a club, he struck me over the head; I felt dazed and everything turned black. "When I was able to drag myself to the house, [ found everything topsey-turvey, and Bob, my boy, had left me, yes? never to return alive for he was killed under the breakbeams of a train a week after he left. "Of all my troubles this was the worst; I felt so despondent that I wished I might die to free myself from such terrible suffering. But, still how thankful I was that Marian was not there to see the gruesome sight." The old man gave a deep involuntary sigh, he had no more to tell. I felt a little wicked but could not resist asking, "And you still are thankful?" His answer was forceful, "Thankful? thankful! Who could be more thankful than I? I have a testimony as to the fulness of the gospel; I have a testimony that Marian and my baby are waiting for me, and I am allowed the privileges of the temple; who could be more thankful? Suppose that I were some poor soul doubting my Father in heaven!" My head hung. I glanced at my wife, she was choking back the tears; even the children's eyes were moist. Shame and repugnance filled my soul, for I, too, had a testimony. Looking at my watch, I found that I had only five minutes to reach my work. And with a proud feeling of contentedness, I wended my way back.