[Vol10 | November 1923 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for January]

Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in January) SPIRITUAL SERVICE FOREWORD The Theology lessons will continue to discuss, during 1924, phases of practical relig'on. What. Spiritual Service Is: Service rendered with the God idea behind it is spiritual service. The God idea, coming to us through instinct, tradition, reason, and revelation, calls for service for or to a supreme Being or Power. The God idea is composite. It has in it the notion of supremacy. Supreme power to do what it desires to do, and to be where it chooses. The God idea contains the notion of supreme intelligence, or being in possession of all knowledge needed to wisely use power, and out of this notion of intelligence comes the assurance of justice and mercy. The Two High Objects of Spiritual Service: Whatever we may do for Divinity is prompted, in the main, by a desire to have _ his help for protection and prosperity at the present, or in the future, or to express our gratitude for what he has done or is doing for us. The only fear that comes near being a high motive of spiritual service is the fear of losing'God's help through the absence of his Spirit?the fear of being unworthy of his presence and failing to get what he would gladly have us optain. God glories in helpfulness, but our "will-nots' may result in his "cannots," else why did Jesus exclaim, "O Jerusalem,.. Jerusalem, how often would I have gathered thy children together... And ye would not?" Is there not in this utterance the declaration that man cannot be saved in wilfulness? Does not the Redeemer declare his desire to do what wilfulness of the people prevented him from doing? The fear of the Lord may be the beginning of wisdom, but the love of the Lord is wisdom fully developed, and the unmistakable evidence of this love is a willing obedience. "If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments", and no high grade keeping of commandments can come through fear. Spiritual Service As a Source of Happiness. The amount of happiness to be obtained from any activity depends upon the love interest that we have in the person or cause for which the thing is being done, and the love interest we have in the doing of the thing. Then, too, we enjoy the consciousness of free agency in the act. One of the great laws of love is that we grow to love that which we willingly serve, whether it be light or darkness, peace or war, indolence or industry, God or mammon. The higher the service, the higher the love; the higher the love, the higher the happiness. Divinity must delight in spiritual service else he would not have set apart and hallowed one seventh of man's time for spiritual service, and proclaimed the first great law to be, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength," (Luke 12:30.) The great writer who said, "That which God delights in must be happy," was stating, in a graphic way, that whatever our Father in heaven desires us to do cannot fail to bring happiness. The person who says "I love my neighbor too well to be unfair with him, and I love the Lord too well to disobey his command?to love my neighbor as myself?'has a double draught of joy: the joy of social service and the joy of spiritual service. The Scope df Spiritual Service. Our field of spiritual service extends into the past, covers the present, and reaches into the future. It is akin to the whole truth, which is a knowledge of things past, present, and future. (D. & C. 93:24.) There is no dead past in the line of spiritual service, and when it is finished there will be no "unknown dead". Service for the Dead. Saving the dead is a spiritual service in which man is permitted to cooperate with God. It amounts almost to a comradeship with Divinity in a spiritual campaign of ? deliverance of those who, in ages gone by, were carried into captivity. To mortals it is an opportunity to become like God through working with God. The rescue gives training in the activity that made of Abraham a friend of God. -As Abraham rescued his captive relatives, without thought of spoils of war, so we seek the redemption of our dead, and without thought of what we may get from them. The service free from the taint of selfishness is one. Of the highest forms of serving one's self. The doctrine, that the completeness of our salvation, depends upon the salvation of the dead, (see D. & C. 128:15-16) may mean that our heavenly joy will be marred by the consciousness of the absence of some one who might have been there but for our neglect, and that our happiness cannot be even relatively complete until we are privileged to inspire some earthly agency to do the work that we should have done. The privilege of officially using the keys to prison doors, not to shut in the prisoner, but to release the penitent, is a 
 glorious one, and with it comes responsibility of no light weight. So stupendous is this work of spiritual service for the dead that it calls for a genealogist in every family, and a savior attitude by the whole family, together with work that claims more than convenience for its performance. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What does "spiritual service" mean to you? Illustrate. 2. Show the superiority of service through love, over service through fear. 3. What does the expression "fear God" mean to you? 4, In the light of what is said in Matthew 23:37 or Luke 13:34, are we justified in saying that a human "will-not". May result in a Divine "cannot"? 5. In what way may our neglect of spiritual service for the dead interfere with our own happiness here, and in the. World to come? 6. How does spiritual service for the dead help in our becoming: (a) like Abraham? (b) like Christ? -7. In what respect is one who neglects the dead like Pharaoh's Butler? (See Genesis 40, with special consideration of the last verse.) 8. What is the meaning of being a "savior on Mount Zion"? Lesson IT Work and Business (Second Week in January) Lesson III Literature (Third week in January) JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER FOREWORD America has challenged the attention of the world since the war in a very unusual manner; consequently anything that is American takes on added significance, for that reason both the history and literature of America is being stressed as never before. The literature lessons will continue to be a study of American authors. We want our Relief Society members to become familiar with the features of our American writers, therefore we include the photograph of the respective author under discussion.