[Vol52 | November 1965 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: 860 Visiting Teacher Message — "Abide Ye in the Liberty . . ." Christine H. Robinson]
860  Visiting   Teacher   Message — "Abide   Ye  in  the  Liberty  .  .  ."     Christine  H.  Robinson 
861  Work  Meeting — Attitudes  Make  the  Difference     Hazel  S.  Cannon     (for  January) 
864  Work   Meeting — The   "Picking-Up"  Technique  Winnifred  C.  Jardine 
866     Social  Science — Our  Priesthood  Heritage     Alberta  H.  Christensen 
872     Literature — The  Place  of  Suffering  in  Life,  Part  I     Robert  K.  Thomas 
Poetry 
801     I  Will  Remember  Autumn 
Life,  by  Catherine  B.  Bowles,  812;  Only  the  Voice,  Margery  S.  Stewart,  812;  Unexpected 
Phrase,  by  Christine  Lund  Coles,  818;  One  More  Story,  by  Mabel  Jones  Gabbott,  828;  Au- 
tumn Leaf,  by  Kathryn  Kay,  835;  Pledge,  by  Vesta  Nickerson  Fairbairn,  835;  Prayer  After 
Hospitality,  by  Lael  W.  Hill,  836;  Angel  Child,  by  Ethel  Jacobson,  846;  Just  Desserts,  by 
Ruth  G.  Rothe,  859;  Leave  Taking,  by  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard,  863;  Truth  Is  Many-Faceted, 
by  Vilate  R.  McAllister,  875;  Diminuendo,  by  Linda  Clarke,  875;  November,  by  Celestia  J. 
Taylor,  876. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  ©  1965  by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main 
Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111;  Phone  364-2511;  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20c 
a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  can  be  sup- 
plied. Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new 
address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the 
Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in  section  1103  Act  of  Oc- 
tober 8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed 
Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.  The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manu- 
scripts. 
803

The 
Blessings 
of  Experience 
President  Belle  S.  Spafford 
[Address  Delivered  at  the 
General  Session  of  the 
Relief  Society  Annual 
General  Conference, 
September  29,  1965] 
■  Church  history  records  many 
accounts  of  the  trials  and  tribula- 
tions that  beset  the  path  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith — he  who 
was  chosen  of  the  Lord  to  open 
this  dispensation.  No  account, 
perhaps,  reveals  more  graphically 
the  personal  hardship  endured 
by  the  Prophet  than  the  account 
of  his  incarceration  in  the  Liberty 
Jail,  where  indignities  to  his  re- 
fined and  sensitive  nature  were 
heaped  upon  him. 
Out  of  the  midst  of  his  tribula- 
tion he  called  upon  God  in  pas- 
sionate earnestness: 
Oh  God!  where  art  Thou?  And 
where  is  the  pavilion  that  covereth 
Thy  hiding  place?  How  long  shall 
Thy  hand  be  stayed,  and  Thine  eye 
.  .  .  behold  from  the  eternal  heavens, 
the  wrongs  of  Thy  people,  and  of  Thy 
servants,  and  Thy  ear  be  penetrated 
with  their  cries  .  .  .  O  Lord  .  .  .  Stretch 
forth  Thy  hand  ...  let  Thine  heart 
be  softened,  and  Thy  bowels  moved 
with  compassion  towards  us. 
And  God  answered  the  cries  of 
the  Prophet  and  said: 
My  son,  peace  be  unto  thy  soul; 
thine  adversity  and  thine  afflictions 
shall  be  but  a  small  moment;  and  then 
if  thou  endure  it  well,  God  shall  exalt 
thee  on  high  ...  If  thou  art  called  to 
pass  through  tribulation;  if  thou  art 
in  perils  among  false  brethren;  if 
thou  art  in  perils  among  robbers;  if 
thou  art  in  perils  by  land  or  by  sea; 
if  thou  art  accused  with  all  manner 
of  false  accusations;  if  thine  enemies 
fall  upon  thee;  if  they  tear  thee  from 
the  society  of  thy  father  and  mother 
and  brethren  and  sisters;  and  if  with 
a  drawn  sword  thine  enemies  tear 
thee  from  the  bosom  of  thy  wife,  and 
of  thine  offspring  ...  if  thou  shouldst 
be  cast  into  the  pit,  or  into  the  hands 
804

THE  BLESSINGS  OF   EXPERIENCE 
of  murderers,  and  the  sentence  of 
death  passed  upon  thee  ...  if  fierce 
winds  become  thine  enemy;  if  the 
heavens  gather  blackness,  and  all  the 
elements  combine  to  hedge  up  the 
way;  and  above  all,  if  the  very  jaws 
of  hell  shall  gape  open  the  mouth 
wide  after  thee,  know  thou,  my  son, 
that  all  these  things  shall  give  thee 
experience,  and  shall  be  for  thy  good 
(DHC  III,  page  291  ff). 
This  leads  us  to  ask,  "What 
really  is  this  thing  which  the 
Lord  called  experience,  and  what 
are  the  values  to  be  found  there- 
in, not  alone  for  the  Prophet  but 
for  each  of  our  Father's  chil- 
dren?" 
Experience,  I  believe,  is  the 
actual  living  through  of  an  event 
or  events;  it  is  personally  under- 
going enjoyment  or  suffering 
which  directly  affects  one's 
feelings,  one's  judgment,  and 
one's  character.  The  dictionary 
says,  "Experience  is  the  sum 
total  of  the  conscious  events 
which  compose  an  individual 
life."  Experience  has  been  re- 
ferred to  as  "Life's  greatest 
teacher,  one's  sure  source  of 
knowledge." 
A  gifted  writer,  Donald  Culross 
Peattie,  says  that  life  is  an  ad- 
venture in  experience  and  "as 
one's  head  is  silvered  o'er  with 
age,  his  variable  experiences 
make  him  sage." 
Another  writer  has  said,  that  a 
strong  and  well-constituted  man 
digests  his  experiences  (deeds 
and  misdeeds  all  included)  just 
as  he  digests  his  meats,  even 
when  he  has  some  tough  morsels 
to  chew  and  swallow,  and  from 
these  well-digested  morsels  comes 
nourishment  by  which  his  char- 
acter is  formed. 
Latter-day  Saints  know  that 
earth  life  is  a  proving  ground  for 
the    Father's    children;    that   ex- 
periences, both  pleasant  and 
difficult,  come  to  all;  that  each 
will  be  tested  by  the  experiences 
of  his  life,  and  his  character  and 
accomplishments  will  be  meas- 
ured by  the  manner  in  which  he 
meets  the  testing  trials. 
The  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
Section  136:31,  tells  us,  "My 
people  must  be  tried  in  all  things 
that  they  may  be  prepared  to 
receive  the  glory  that  I  have  for 
them,  even  the  glory  of  Zion;  and 
he  that  will  not  bear  chastise- 
ment is  not  worthy  of  my  king- 
dom." 
I  recall  being  authorized  sev- 
eral years  ago  by  the  First 
Presidency,  as  is  the  usual  cus- 
tom, to  interview  a  sister  relative 
to  her  call  to  become  a  member 
of  the  General  Board.  She  was 
an  intelligent  and  talented  wo- 
man, devoted  to  the  work  of  the 
Church  and  to  the  work  of  Relief 
Society.  Her  quick  mind  readily 
grasped  the  importance  of  the 
call  and  what,  in  general,  would 
be  expected  of  her  as  a  board 
member  and  as  a  leader  of 
Latter-day  Saint  women.  She 
was  reluctant  to  accept  the  call 
since,  she  said,  she  felt  she  had 
not  had  experiences  in  life  which 
would  make  her  sufficiently  un- 
derstanding of  the  problems  and 
needs  of  the  sisters  or  wise  in  her 
counsels  to  them.  She  said  her 
life  had  been  practically  devoid 
of  trial  or  hardship,  and  she 
feared  her  lack  of  kinship  of  ex- 
perience with  most  Relief  Society 
sisters  would  keep  them  from 
drawing  lovingly  to  her.  This  she 
could  not  bear.  Then,  she  said 
this,  which  has  remained  with  me 
through  the  years,  "Insofar  as 
experiences  which  test  and  de- 
velop one  are  concerned,  my  life 
has  been  quite  impoverished." 
805