[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 837 | Home | Waiting for the Kettle to Boil Maxine | T. Grimm]
Waiting for the Kettle to Boil Maxine T. Grimm What do you do while you're waiting? Do you twirl your fingers, count the number of cars, pace up and down nervously, chew on a handkerchief, work yourself up into a nervous lather? Do you let your mind lapse into a coma, do you let it slip into careless habits of worry, or do you mull over a In this age of no time, many worthwhile things get cast aside. If you Start taking advantage of this waiting time, you will be amazed what can really be accomplished. No reading time you say? One of my friends keeps her Relief Society Magazine in the kitchen. There is time to pick it up in the preparation of a meal. This Magazine is so easy to slip in your pocket or handbag to be read during these waiting minutes. There are also paper-bound books of worthwhile biographies, poetry, and fascinating cookbooks, and then, there are our own standard works that are bound in small editions that could be easily slipped into a purse or shopping bag, or even in the glove compartment of the car. Be sure you have a bookmark and red pencil to underline passages you; may want to use in a future talk or lesson. No letter writing time you say? Carry a small packet of writing paper with a few envelopes or a few cards in a folder with a good pen. Leave one in the kitchen, one in the car, and a spare in your purse. You will be surThen, the most important of all, no time for thinking you say? You need no books, no thread, no props for this. Try to think constructive thoughts. Plan for tomorrow. Plan for the next day's activities, a family party, solve a knotty problem—how can you control John's temper, how can you improve conditions at home or in Relief Society meeting, what could you do for Aunt Mae who is ailing? Work on a long-range plan—college education for Jane. Whatever you do, recognize this wasted time. Be aware of its importance Time you say Is wasting away Well, let's take it and use it And twist it our way!