[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 861 | Lesson | Work Meeting — Attitudes Make the Difference Hazel S. Cannon (for January) | ]
WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Attitudes Make the Difference For Second Meeting, January 1966 Objective: To show that a positive attitude on the part of the homemaker is essential to happy family life, and a guide toward achieving ''an intelligent mind and a trained hand." @ The homemaker's life is sometimes a complicated and turbulent one. The age in which we live propels us at such a fast pace that we often feel we are left without order or clearness or direction. It is then that a look at landmarks will place us back on the road, with our sense of direction and our self-confidence restored. A positive attitude and the conviction that in the home 


 lies woman's greatest fulfillment, are guideposts which dispel confusion. A woman's greatest glory is in being a homemaker! This honorable profession is a many-faceted one—exacting, creative, demanding, rewarding—and a privilege and a challenge always. It requires constantly 'an intelligent mind and a trained hand." Phyllis McGinley, a popular American writer of light verse and a Pulitzer Prize winner, is proud of being, first of all, a homemaker. In her best-seller, I Sixpence in Her Shoe, she says that the occupation of homemaker is to her of sufficient importance to fill a woman's heart and her life. Our Relief Society leaders have long emphasized that the seemingly ordinary and mundane tasks of homemaking and housekeeping have a "spiritual value which affects the eternal life of families."" Each Latter-day Saint home should be the prime training ground for the family. It is there a child receives his spiritual inheritance, his beliefs, his ideas, his standards. If the home is the supreme factor in the development of the family, how are values (to rate in usefulness and excellence) to be determined? How are individual and family goals (aims or objectives) set? How are family standards (established rules of excellence) decided upon? Of first importance is the attitude of the homemaker herself, since attitudes inspire behavior. Do you accept your role as a homemaker as a divine appointment? Does your heart sing with rejoicing? Have you gained a sense of appreciation for your 862 calling? Do you make an earnest effort to be positive in your thinking in the face of discouragement? A wise woman once related this story to a homemaker who was confronted with the possibility of her family's losing their home and who seemed hopelessly lost in the mechanics of housekeeping: There was once a queen, who reigned in troublesome days. When her subjects became uneasy with rumors of war, she would don her loveliest riding habit and take her entire court hunting. When the queen rode by, smiling and waving and apparently so gay and happy, the people relaxed and felt all was well in the kingdom. In this manner she tided over many a danger—and I've tried to be like her. Whenever a crisis comes in my husband's business—and we have had lots of them—or when he's discouraged, or one of the children has a special problem, I put on my prettiest dress and get the best dinner I know how. Somehow, it seems to work. That's the woman's part, you know— to play the queen. Attitude includes a_ blending of the arts and skills of grandmother's generation with those consistent with your situation today. It is a truism that the present and future learn from the past: A mother of four remarked what a delightful time she had spent recently in her kitchen trying to perfect her custard pie (her husband's favorite) technique, using a cherished old family recipe and the memory of her grandmother's delicate, spice-flecked masterpiece as her guides.. A modern grandmother presented a bride with an exquisite pair of fagoted pillowcases for her trousseau. The fagoting was intricate as a spider web and represented many hours spent by loving 'hands in perpetuating an almost lost art. When we consider that attitudes and the esteem in which we value our position determine our whole course of action in the home, personal outlook becomes very important indeed. In our thinking we need to re-enthrone all that is good, right, and uplifting. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly love, kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence (D&C 4:6). These truths shape our thinking as they have that of the homemakers before us. These are the landmarks which calm the confusion that pressures of our day force upon us, and indicate the way ahead. Techniques and skills may change, some of which will be discussed in subsequent discussions, but those fundamental qualities of mind and heart remain the same. TO DISCUSS 1. Can attitudes be changed? Can you cite examples from the scriptures where changed attitudes have resulted in a change of behavior? 2. What should the homemaker's attitude be toward herself (selfrespect, self-confidence, and the banishment of negative thoughts— the positive approach.) 3. How can you build a better attitude toward some disliked household task such as ironing? (One mother memorizes scripture while ironing.) LESSON DEPARTMENT TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Attitudes' Self-Analysis for Homemakers: 1. Do you consider your responsibility as homemaker the most important one you'll ever have? 2. Do you see a purpose for your daily tasks? 3. Do you realize that through study and effort you can be your own efficiency expert? 4. Do you enjoy creating beauty in your home at*a minimum of cost? 5. Do you think it' important that you and: your husband take the initiative in establishing. Family values? Do you also feel that it is important to guide the setting of individual and family goals and to work toward achieving them? 6. Do you realize that - happy family relationships form the basis for home management? 7. Do you recognize that your work schedule can be a flexible one? 8. Do you pray to your Heavenly Father for guidance in temporal matters as well as those of an eternal nature? Attitudes play a very important part in the correcting of children. A negative approach usually meets with resistance. When a child misbehaves, refrain from saying, "Gary, be quiet. You're driving me insane." One homemaker says she has a rule of three: (1) she tries to remain calm; (2) she tries to treat cause rather than symptom; and (3) she tries to substitute an interesting activity for the annoyance. She might say, "Gary, come here for - a minute—" (and then when he is quiet and listening); "you haven't played with your picture puzzles you bought last summer while we were on vacation for a long time. Don't you think you might enjoy them?" For the next week or so try to use a positive approach when a child must be corrected or in times of disputation and note the results.