[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 810 | Special Feature | Behold, I Have Set Before Thee an Open Door Louise | W. Madsen]
Behold, I Have Set Before Thee an Open Door Counselor Louise W. Madsen j [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] @ That man may _ understand his mission, Christ has referred to himself thus: "I am the door; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved" (John 10:7). The scriptures record many uses by the Savior of a "doorway," as a symbol of entering into the kingdom of God. "Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come unto him, and will sup with him, and he with me" (Rev. 3: 20). A famous painting illustrating this biblical quotation shows Christ standing at a door which has no knob, signifying that the door can only be opened from within; that he who desires to welcome the Savior into his home must open his heart and soul and invite the Savior to enter. The symbolism is further seen in another familiar quotation, "Knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Luke 11:9). All of these statements place the responsibility upon individuals themselves to take the action necessary to enter the doorway prepared for them. As God inspired his Prophet to "turn the key" in behalf of women, it was as though he said to his daughters, '"'Behold, I have set before thee an open door' (Rev. 3:8), and those who enter in will find "a great door and effectual is opened unto me" (I Cor. 16:9). Relief Society is the doorway to many wonderful things, all BEHOLD, I HAVE SET BEFORE THEE AN OPEN DOOR calculated to make life more beautiful, satisfying, effective, and happy. As one enters the mansion that is Relief Society, other inner doors may _ be opened, each one showing new vistas, inviting further exploraation, opening to greater understanding, and, as the Lord has said, revealing the great door opening unto him. Relief Society is a doorway to spiritual growth. Spiritual growth comes from a combination of study of the scriptures and the writings of those who know and understand the word of God, and of being attuned to the Spirit which reveals, prompts, and fills the soul and mind with understanding. Relief Society provides a way to greater and deeper conversion and to. Unwavering faith and testimony. The Society's "'principles are to practice holiness." The all-encompassing reason for its existence is to save souls. Relief Society is a doorway to happier living. Happiness has no selfish implications. It comes to those who make others happy. Its source in a woman's life revolves around her home. Practical training, as given in Relief Society, assures increased dedication to her role as wife and mother. No greater happiness comes to her than to know that she has succeeded in her home, that her support has added to the achievements of her husband, that her loving direction of her children has resulted in worthy sons and daughters. Happiness also comes to a woman in her individual development, in her acquisition of skills and learning, in her use of this life as a time to prepare for eternity. Relief Society is a doorway to companionship. One of the delights of life is the companionship of those whom we love, respect, and admire, those whose aspirations and ideals we may share, those we may teach or by whom we may be taught, those with whom we walk in prayer and worship of our Heavenly Father, those who give inspiration and motivate us to greater effort. How joyous and lasting are friendships made in Relief Society. Relief Society is a doorway to service. The commandments of the Father require service to him and his children as part of that which will gain for us eternal life in the celestial kingdom. Opportunity to give service is provided by Relief Society. The "combined efforts'? Of members of this "charitable society" add to the efficacy as well as the amount of service which can be given. The cherishing, tender care which marked the work of Jesus is emulated by Relief Society. Relief Society is a doorway to knowledge. The Lord has admonished his children to gain knowledge by study and also by faith. He has given them the commandments to teach one another, to gather together to learn of his word.

Through his Prophet he has promised his daughters that knowledge and intelligence would flow down upon them, and he has urged them to widen their field of knowledge. Relief Society makes it possible for the sisters to heed these admonitions, to follow this NOVEMBER 1965 counsel, and to participate in learning activities which will add to their store of knowledge. Relief Society is a doorway to more perfect womanhood. The divine plan for women is unfolded in its tenets. Its members are taught to give greater response to the sacred _ obligations of motherhood. Its great women provide patterns of virtues to be emulated, virtues of modesty and beautiful womanliness. Relief Society may be a doorway to the accomplishment of the Father's purposes for his daughters. Relief Society is a wide-open doorway. All who enter in will be blessed and uplifted. Sisterhood will have greater meaning. Service given under the direction of the Society will provide an outlet for charitable feelings. Knowledge will be shared and learning encouraged. Personal growth will be sure in a pleasing variety of ways. Spirituality will be magnified. Love will encircle those who enter Relief Society's doorway. Sisters, remember always that the Lord has said: "Behold, I have set before thee an open door." Enter the door in faith and complete confidence and you will find that "a great door and effectual is opened."