[Vol52 | November 1965 | Page 829 | Fiction | "Star Light, Star Bright" Christie | Lund Coles]
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman looking at a Christmas tree by a window, with a snowy scene visible outside]

Star Light, Star Bright

Christie Lund Coles

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman looking at a Christmas tree by a window, with a snowy scene visible outside]

■ Annie's polishing cloth was stopped in mid-air as her hand paused in its work. She saw the first star prick the sky like a small, perfectly cut diamond. She saw it glisten in its appointed place and whispered, "Star light, star bright, first star I've seen tonight. I wish I may, I wish I might, have the wish I wish tonight," as she had done for as long as she could remember.

She hesitated before she made her wish. There wasn't much she could wish for. She had so much. This apartment house—not large—on which she made some money, and had company in the building; she had her job at the music store half a day; health; friends, food, and warmth. What more could she ask?

She had wished for a companion, someone to love her. But, she supposed she was too old for that now. Love had missed her. She was fifty. These other things must take its place. The only man she had ever cared for had been killed in an automobile accident. Her years had been spent taking care of "Mama," until she died, and playing the piano in church, and in the piano store.

Her main interest now was in her tenants. They were nice people. Fine. Barbara, the tall, dark-eyed girl from California going to school, too shy to make many friends though she was a delight when one knew her. Charlie Smoot, a bachelor, on the quiet side, too, though tall and good-looking; Mrs. Ames, a divorcee, and her five-year-old son; Grandma Lunt who tended the little boy while his mother worked; and Mr. and Mrs. Purdee who both worked and always seemed to have no problems.

She loved them all. They were her family. She found herself wishing, "Let everyone in the apartment have the merriest Christmas ever." Not that that could come quite true, because the merriest was when you were a child and everything was touched with wonder. Youth was an eternal Christmas, untouched as the snow which was beginning to fall softly outside.

829

NOVEMBER 1965

The fleece-gray clouds had hidden the star. From town, she could hear the chimes playing beloved Christmas carols. Beautiful! But, there were some her parents had loved which one seldom heart: "Star of the East," "The Holy City."

She had been polishing her piano—a baby grand, for which she had saved for years—and now she laid the cloth down, wiped her hands on a clean polishing rag, and ran her hands across the keys. Soon the well-loved chords were filling the room: "Star of the East, O Bethlehem Star; guiding us on from heaven afar."

She was singing the words, though she had sung little lately. She had forgotten that her door to the hall was slightly ajar (with the safety chain latched), so she could listen for a package which was to be delivered. After all, tomorrow night was Christmas Eve. No matter when the others were celebrating, being of Scandinavian descent, she would have her celebration Christmas Eve.

She was brought back to reality by a quick rap at the door. "Yes," she called, rising, thinking it would be the delivery boy. Yet, when she reached the door she was surprised to see Barbara standing there. An older man, graying, handsome, was beside her.

"This is my father," the girl said swiftly, "I wanted him to meet you. He was about to postpone the meeting till he heard you singing."

"Not much singing, I'm afraid my mind was a long way off."

Then, she added, quickly, "But,

do come in. I'm really glad to meet you, Mr. Hall. Barbara has spoken so much of you."

He smiled. "Her letters are full of you, Miss Larsen. I wanted to tell you how much I appreciate your looking out for her. Being alone . . . and so far away . . . it isn't always easy."

"Why, it's nothing. I wish I could do more."

She wished she knew how to get Charlie Smoot and Barbara to know each other better.

BARBARA smiled, "You do too much. She's really wonderful, Dad."

He nodded. "And that tune you were playing. . . . Why, I haven't heard it in years. My mother used to play it on our old-fashioned organ. That and 'Red Wing,' and . . . and . . . 'Home,' 'The Holy City'? I was just thinking of that."

"Oh, yes. Yes, indeed. You don't hear them anymore. You hear 'Jingle Bells,' 'Reindeer,' all that stuff."

Annie laughed, and he looked at her seriously, asking, "Would you, perhaps, be kind enough to play it again . . . And sing it? We just got the end."

"If you'll sing with me."

"Well now. All right. But remember, you asked for it."

She sat down again and began to play. His surprising tenor started on the first notes, and she joined in. Barbara hummed. Another knock at the door startled and stopped them. She shrugged, "I'm sorry."

This time, it was the package. But the moment had been spoiled. He said, "Oh, we really mustn't detain you. Perhaps

830

"STAR LIGHT, STAR BRIGHT"

sometimes before I go back."
"You mean, you're staying? You didn't come to take Barbara home for Christmas?"
"Oh, no," Barbara assured her, "I invited him up here. After all, I have my own apartment. I have a little tree. But I may need some help with my turkey, Christmas day."

SUDDENLY, an idea hit her, "You're celebrating Christmas day? I'm fixing dinner tomorrow night. Christmas Eve is the Danish custom. Why don't you both come down here and eat? Only Grandma Lunt is coming. We can't possibly handle an entire goose."
"She's a darling," Barbara said, and her father questioned, "Goose? Why, I haven't had one since we used to shoot our own. But . . . it's an intrusion . . . Christmas Eve and all."
"If I had a family it would be different," Annie told him frankly, "but I'm quite alone. It would really be a favor. And," she added, "then we could sing to our heart's content."
"Sold," he agreed, "if Barbara's willing."
"Oh, I am. That is, if you'll help me with the turkey and eat with us Christmas day."
So the two of them left, and she returned to polishing the piano which reflected the lights on the small tree which she had just turned on. She did not pull her drapes, for it was not too dark, and she loved seeing the snow falling and the tree in other windows down the street. She hoped someone derived a bit of pleasure from hers. She was reassured in that hope

a moment later when she saw a man and a small boy pause on the walk and stare directly at it. They could not see her, and she was glad, or it might have spoiled it for them. The child was pointing toward the window, and even as he pointed, they turned their footsteps up her walk. It was almost with a pain that she realized that it was little Paul from upstairs, and his father. This had probably been his day with the boy. How sad divorce was when there was a child, and when it was Christmas. Partings by death were inevitable, but when they could be avoided. . . .
As Annie heard them open the outside door, she got up almost without thinking and hurried across the room. She opened the door and met them in the hall. "Hello," she called. (She had met him before when he had come for the child and he seemed to be a nice chap.) He answered, "Hello. Paul was just admiring your tree."
"How nice. Why don't you bring him in and let him look at it? Please do." The young man hesitated, but finally stepped inside, shaking the flakes of snow from his shoulders, then brushing his son's coat as well.
The child was drawn to the tree with its red and green lights, its small woven baskets, filled with candies, which her mother had taught her to make; the popcorn she had strung here in the evenings; the ornaments, and the gleaming star on top.
"It's so pretty," he whispered, "so pretty. We only have a tiny one." She nodded. She knew, for she had seen the tinsel store tree set on the television set,

831

NOVEMBER 1965

with nothing on it but a few blue lights. Pretty enough, but not for a child's Christmas. Of course, if his mother didn't work things might be different.

SHE knew Marcia, his mother, hadn't come home yet. So she asked them to sit down and passed them a box of candy the store had given her. Once more the man hesitated, saying he was not sure Paul's mother would approve.

"But it is . . . Christmas," Annie said, "we have to make a few exceptions."

"Yes," he agreed, his lips growing a little tight. Then, as though she had reminded him of something, he reached into his pocket and took out a small, carefully wrapped box. "Would you mind giving her this? Just a remembrance. . . ."

She could hardly swallow for the pity that caught her throat. She answered, "Why don't you give it to her yourself? She's coming up the steps now. I can always tell when it is she. She comes so quickly, as if she can't wait to get home to her little boy."

"She does?" he asked. "I thought she loved her job."

Annie couldn't do any more than shake her head before she was at the door, calling to the blonde young woman, stopping her. Marcia came in. Her child rushed to her arms, saying, "Mommie! Daddy's here. Look at the tree." The girl, still young and pretty enough to be a bride, flushed as she saw the square-built, athletic looking man stand up and speak, "Hi, Marcia," giving her a quizzical little smile

that could have meant so many things.

"Will you excuse me just a moment?" Annie asked them, "I must see to my cookies." She had baked them earlier and their fragrance was still in the air. She decided to put them in the cookie jar, to leave them alone. When she came back into the room, the couple was standing before the tree, the child holding the hand of each of them. She looked at them and somehow remembered the mother and father of Jesus, the following of the star; the ordeal at his birth; their going together to the temple in search of him. Parenthood was not something to be taken lightly. Oh, this girl, this young man, might have been her children. This small boy might have been her grandchild. They weren't of course. But maybe she could help them. As if she had just thought of it, she asked, "Why don't you come back later for some cookies?"

"Tonight?" he questioned, whirling around.

She paused before saying, "Well, why not make it tomorrow night, Christmas Eve? And why don't you come for supper with me. I've a great big goose that will be stuffed with prunes and apples. You and your mother. . . ."

"And my Daddy, too?" Somehow, she knew Paul would pick up the cue.

"Yes, and your Daddy, too." The man looked at his wife—hopefully. She looked into their child's beseeching eyes. She shrugged, "Why not? But you must let me help you with something. . . ."

"There may be just plenty to

832

"STAR LIGHT, STAR BRIGHT"

do tomorrow, or when you get that his parents lived. She mo-
home. We'll worry about it then. tioned to a chair. He sat down.
Right now, though, I could use "I decided I couldn't make it
a little help in trussing that bird. now. Maybe in the spring."
I thought I'd get it ready tonight "What are you doing for
and start to bake it early in the Christmas, then?"
morning." "I don't know. Some of
Marcia laughed. "Rick here is the fellows from the office are
the best bird trusser you ever going on a skiing trip day at a
saw. He always did my moth- lodge till after New Year's.
er's." It was his turn to flush That's why I thought I'd better
now, but his eyes were pleased. come in and take care of
The three of them went into the my rent. Just in case I might
kitchen while the boy still stared stay beyond the first."
at the marvel of the tree. "Nonsense. There's no hurry
about that." She saw that he
ANNIE sat in her favorite gold was hardly aware of what she
chair, her eyes on the piano. was saying for staring at the
work was all done, practically all tree.
the food was ready to be pushed "That's really pretty. I saw
into the oven, or steamed or you one night, decorating it, and
whatever it needed. She still had wished I could come in and help
one problem and she would have you." Even his voice was wist-
to be very subtle about it. ful. She ached for him, too, and
As if the Christmas spirit were knew how lonely he really must
helping her, a knock came upon have been to come in like this.
the door. It was quite late for "When would you be going?"
callers, but, at this time of year, she asked, carefully.
people came anytime. Anything "Oh, not till the day after
could happen. Christmas, most of them have
And it did. For, as she opened families here. A couple of them
the door, who should be standing have invited me home, but that's
there but Charlie Smoot, her really a family day. I wouldn't
problem person. "Why, Char- intrude."
lie," she asked, "how are you? I "I know. I'm alone, too, you
haven't seen you for days. know." She almost asked for
Where have you been?" pity with her tone, but she
Taken a bit by surprise, he wasn't thinking about herself.
answered truthfully, "Well, after His head came up swiftly. He
work, I've just been walking said, "That's right. And before I
around town, looking into win- forget it, I have a little remem-
dows, listening to the music. brance for you. You've been so
Christmas is a lonesome time nice."
when your family is two thou- He was looking through the
sand miles away." packages in his hands. She stop-
"Oh, I'm sure that's true. But ped him. "Why don't you save it
you mentioned something awhile for tomorrow night? It would
back about going back there." make me very happy if you
She recalled it was in Minnesota would come down and have sup-

833

NOVEMBER 1965

per. You tenants are my family now. I'm going to have roast goose."

Surprised, he told her, "Why, that's what we always had. If it would make you happy, I'd love to. What time?"

"Oh, make it early, six-thirty, seven. We can have a long evening." 

"Not half as long as if I were upstairs alone. Even the stores close early." They both laughed, and he left the room much happier than she had ever seen him. Reluctantly, she locked the door and pulled the cord that lighted the tree. She must get some sleep.

It would be no problem getting Mr. and Mrs. Purdee to come down, if they didn't have children they were going to visit.

Christmas Eve was all she ever remembered its being: white with snow, and a flaky blanket of it still falling. The rooms smelled of pumpkin pie, suet pudding, goose and apples and prunes merging in juicy sweetness. Grandma Lunt was there. Charlie came next with his gift which he put under the tree. He was clean-shaven, and handsome; Barbara and her father followed. The Purdees came—but not for long, because they were going to their children where they were to get presents later. Chuck and Marcia hadn't arrived. Annie began to be nervous, she thought of phoning, but it might only aggravate a very embarrassing situation. So, she went ahead getting the food ready. Mr. Hall insisted on lifting the big bird onto the platter, and the others tried to help. Charlie and Barbara had found each other with their eyes, and smiled and talked in a way they might never have done any other night. But, where was the little family? Where was the child to make it all complete?

SHE was serving the mashed potatoes . . . slowly, to give them time . . . when the knock came at the door. Barbara answered it, and cried, "Hi, Marcia. I'm so glad you came." Then, surprised and pleased, "and Chuck and Paul. Oh, how wonderful."

The child was there, the table was ready, and the lights from the tree reflected on the crystal, china, and silver which Annie had saved for such a long time, and bought, hoping. . . .

Mr. Hall asked the blessing, then reached over and touched her hand, smiling at her in a way no one had done in many years, as if she were lovable, or even young.

Later, when the gifts had been opened, and they had all caught their collective breaths, they sang . . . the old songs, and the new.

Both Marcia and Chuck stood behind their boy who was on the piano stool with Annie. Once she saw them holding hands. Barbara and Charlie were side by side, smiling; Barbara's father was hovering above her, turning the sheet music, suggesting songs. It was just as she knew Christmas should be everywhere.

They left with the strains of "Silent Night," still soft on the air, left with the agreement that all (except the Purdees who weren't any problem anyway, and were going to be with their children) promising to

834
