[Vol53 | September 1966 | Page 696 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities]

arter. Lucille A. Murdock, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: "The visiting teachers in the picture, over seventy, were given a special tribute and a gift at the Relief Society anniversary observance in Minersville Ward. Because of eight consecutive years. Of 100 per cent visiting teaching, all of the other visiting teachers of the ward were also honored. A delicious turkey supper was served to all Relief Society members and their husbands, after which a program was presented entitled 'Lest We Forget.' The beautiful birthday cake may be seen on the table in the picture." 696 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. SEPTEMBER 1966 Duchesne Stake (Utah) Leadership Meeting and Spring Fashion Show May 28, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Viola Bleazard, Secretary-Treasurer; Lois B. Goodrich, Counselor; Ora N. Holgate, President; Arwella P. Moon, Counselor; Rita Hansen, chorister; Anona Miles, organist.

Back row, standing, left to right: NaDeane Horrocks and Iva Allred, decoration committee; Rayda Stevenson, visiting teacher message leader; Ida Horrocks, literature class leader; Inez Swasey, social science class leader; Jennette Turnbow, theology class leader; Ina Kitteridge, who played the background music during the fashion show. Sister Holgate reports: "The closing social and fashion show was very well attended with one hundred fifty Relief Society members. Forty-two children modeled dresses and suits the mothers had made, with the help of Relief Society. For some, it was the first time sewing for their children. The dresses modeled were made at very little cost. Some were remodeled from men's suits, formals, etc. Modeled by women and teenagers were afternoon dresses, formals, dressy suits, casual dresses, and a wedding gown—all beautifully made. This accomplishment and the fashion show helped the mothers to realize what wonderful accomplishments can be done by being able to sew and make lovely clothing for oneself and one's family. "The stake Singing Mothers sang two numbers, and several wards rendered songs and musical numbers." Smithfield Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Presents Special Displays at Leadership Meeting April 28, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Erma B. Thompson, chorister; Lulu R. Mortensen, literature class leader; Selena G. Low, President; Winona W. Cunningham, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, standing, left to right: Ruby J. Thornley, Magazine representative; Donna L. Cooley, visiting teacher message leader; Bessie T. Griffin, organist; Marva S. Jenson, theology class leader; Roberta N. Geary, Second Counselor; Dixie P. Hillyard, work meeting leader; Tellma G. Thompson, First Counselor; Wanda G. Nielsen, social science class leader. Sister Low reports: "The ward workers enjoyed an array of artistry depicting the program of Relief Society at leadership meeting. Each stake leader arranged a beautiful table to instill in the sisters the correlation of each department to the success of the whole program of Relief Society. A light luncheon was served at the close of the evening to a large group of dedicated workers. The picture shows the social science display." Las Vegas East Stake (Nevada) Presents Dramatization "'Home Is My Harbor," May 20, 1966 Loretta N. Gubler, President, reports: '""The Las Vegas East Relief Society Stake Board presented a fund-raising program on May 20. We felt it was especially significant that we presented 'Home Is My Harbor' with members of the stake board and their families. The beautiful and spiritual message of the play was felt by all attending, as evidenced by the emotion shown by the audience at the close of the program. The Singing Mothers represented the five wards in our stake and performed beautifully. We held practices both night and day each Monday, so we could have the working mothers sing and participate with us. We were delighted with the attendance and feel that the evening was a big success, both financially and spiritually. The Singing Mothers were directed by stake chorister Renee Pearce, with Ethelyn Peterson at the organ, and Larraine Ficklin at the piano. Emma Solomon directed the play. Counselors to President Gubler are Mabel Hansen and Emma Solomon, with Hermise Thiess, Secretary-Treasurer." 


 North Carbon Stake (Utah) Presents Fashion Show April 1, 1966 Left to right: Carry] Carlson, wearing a dress made by her mother; Annalee Holdaway, in white and coral taffeta brocade formal; Marlene Richardson, wearing an afternoon dress; June Johnson and daughter Donna, in look-alike dresses of red and white gingham. Myrna C. Broschinsky, President, North Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: "The stake board took charge of most of the details, but the wards delivered an invitation to each home by the visiting teachers. The contribution was fifty cents a ticket and we shared the proceeds with the wards. "We felt that the fashion show was a real success. More than one hundred models participated, modeling clothes made by themselves or their mothers. Nothing worn in the fashion show was 'store-bought,' other than shoes and accessories. We had many nonmembers in attendance, so that we felt the fashion show was a good missionary tool. The dresses were displayed in scenes and not individually. "Two sewing classes have been held in wards in North Carbon Stake as a result of the fashion show, and others are being planned. The variety and number of items modeled was outstanding, and all the sewing was beautifully done. We feel that the Lord really blessed us for our efforts." South Ogden Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Spring Program, March 30, 1966 Seated, front row, beginning fourth from the left: Gloria Rippon, accompanist; Lois Shepherd, Secretary-Treasurer; Beverly Francis, Education Counselor; Elma B. Ross, President; Lila Evertsen, Work Counselor; Sharon Steed, chorister. Sister Ross reports: "Our stake spring program consisted of a dramatization by a father, mother, and two children, who discussed composers and their works from the Old World and the New, and the Singing Mothers performed the works discussed." Riverside Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Riverside Ward Relief Society Presidents Honor Magazine Representative March 23, 1966 Seated, front row, left to right: Luella M. Buchi; Hillevi Daniels, Magazine representative; Ada Catmull. Back row, standing, left to right: Dott Linford; Elizabeth Gordon; Elda Nelson, President; Edith W. Tanner; Julia Wunderly. Zella Nesbitt, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: "Hillevi Daniels has served faithfully as Magazine representative under the seven ward Relief Society presidents shown in the picture, a total of twenty-seven years. She has averaged above 100 per cent in subscriptions each and every year. She has been loved and revered by all who know her. She was recently released at the age of seventy-nine years because of failing health." 


 } s 2 —— Phoenix North Stake (Arizona) Magazine Representatives Honored at Leadership Meeting, April 11, 1966 Seated, left to right: Norma L. Wadsworth, Secretary-Treasurer, Phoenix North Stake Relief Society; Julia S. Kremer, retiring Glendale Ward Magazine representative; Ida M. Steele, President, Phoenix North Stake Relief Society. Second row, standing, left to right, Magazine representatives: Emil T. Reep, Twentieth Ward; Hazel C. Davis, Eighth Ward; Adeline Z. Albert, Glendale Ward; Karene Pierson, Twenty-fourth Ward. Back row, standing, left to right: Virginia C. Pullins, Counselor, Phoenix North Stake; Esther S. Knell, Counselor; Pearl T. Jacobsen, Magazine representative, Phoenix North Stake. Sister Steele reports: "The month of April was set aside as our Magazine drive month, under the direction of Sister Jacobsen. This month Julia S. Kremer was also honored at the stake leadership meeting. Sister Kremer has served as-eGlendale Ward Magazine representative for thirty-two years. When the ward was created thirty-two years ago, it covered an area which now comprises three stakes. Sister Kremer has magnified her calling, not only as Magazine representative, but also in her devotion to the gospel. In thirty-two years, she has missed only four leadership meetings. She is retiring after serving seventeen ward presidents and eight stake Relief Society presidents. She feels that her subscriptions have traveled around the world. The Luke Air Force Base is in this ward, and many Magazines have been sold to servicemen's wives. Each year she has achieved 100 per cent or more subscriptions. She is an inspiration to all other Magazine representatives for her devotion and service."