Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Duchesne Stake. A contest was recently held between the Mountain Home and Boneta wards for 100% teachers' report, during a period of three months. The Mountain Home Ward won in the contest and the members were royally entertained by the Boneta ward. Mrs. Mabel Stevenson drove a large truck which conveyed the Relief Society women to Boneta where they were very graciously received and entertained at a reception and luncheon.
Logan Stake. Mrs. Mary L. Hendrickson, a member of the stake board, has become a patron to the National Council of Women. The stake workers are pleased that Mrs. Hendrickson has affiliated herself with this important organization.
Summit Stake. A very interesting story is connected with the gift of a new home-made carpet by the women of the Woodland ward Relief Society to their new chapel. The women donated the rags individually and sewed and wound them in work and business meeting. The balls were then sent to Salt Lake City to the
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 145
Work Shop for the Blind where the rags were woven into carpet. While this work was going on the hens in the ward were helping out by laying Sunday eggs which were set aside and donated to pay for the warp and weaving.
Bear Lake Stake. In the Bear Lake stake during the past year a greater number of women have taken an active part than ever before. During July and August a course of twelve lessons in "Nutrition," prepared and sent out by the extension department of the University of Idaho, was taken up. There was a very good attendance and splendid interest taken in these lessons. Copies of each lesson were sent in sufficient numbers for every woman enrolled in the Relief Society. Three distinct conventions were held in October and were well attended. In September a one-day clinic was held in the stake at which ninety-five children of pre-school age were given examinations. The director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene was in charge, assisted by the state nurse, two local doctors and a local nurse. The stake officers of the Relief Society assisted greatly in making the clinic a success, and the stake secretary gave a great deal of time in advertising and making other preparations. She also made the visits to the homes with the school nurse in the follow-up work. Much good was accomplished through the clinic.
New Zealand Mission. The following paragraph is taken from a letter from Mrs. Martha J. Wright, president of the New Zealand Mission Relief Societies: "We have two additional associations since the last annual report, and all are showing a deeper interest as they become better acquainted with the work and lessons from the Magazine. Most of the associations are now subscribing for the Magazine and enjoying the contents, though some of the lessons are a little difficult to understand. The testimony and theology lessons are much appreciated by them. I have frequently written and had translated into Maori the social service lessons. They are always enjoyed and are needed as much or more than some of the religious topics. We thoroughly enjoy the Magazine and always look forward fondly for its arrival. 'Investing in Love,' the wonderful story in the November issue, is of itself worth the annual subscription, and appeals especially to the Maori mothers, as the almost universal custom among them is to adopt several dependent little tots. One well-to-do mother and father have raised to manhood and womanhood eleven who are now married and away, and they now have seven more small unfortunates whom they are feeding, clothing and sending to school,"


Canadian Mission. Mrs. Ida T. Quinney, president of the Canadian mission Relief Societies, writes: "I am very pleased, indeed, to say that the Relief Society work in the Canadian mission is making progress and is responding 'nicely to all the requirements of this great organization. There have been two new organizations effected during the year which are doing splendid work. Of course, we have but few members owing to the fact that our mission is young and covers such a great distance. It has not been my pleasure to make personal visits to all of the societies in the mission, but I have been in constant touch with all of them and know of the good work they are doing. The lady missionaries have been a wonderful help in the Relief Society work in teaching those necessary things that build spirituality and bring together a closer feeling of cooperation."
Shelley Stake. ' At the recent stake conference held in Shelley, first counselor, Nellie D. Dye, second counselor, Birdie Christensen, secretary, Anna M. Mallory, chorister, Anna R. Jacobson, and board member, Minda Cutler, were released on account of poor health. On December 30 a stake social was held in honor of the retiring members, consisting of a very interesting program, including a short drama by the Shelley First ward, after which refreshments were served. Each of the guests of honor was presented with a beautiful ring, containing her birth stone. Expressions of appreciation were freely given for the splendid service they have rendered the Relief Society. The following sisters were sustained and set apart to fill the vacancies: Mrs, Hulda G. Mickelson and Mrs. Emma Holm, counselors: Mrs. Cora ' Christensen, secretary, and Mrs. Anna R. Jacobsen, Magazine agent.
Alpine Stake. After twenty-three years of service in the Relief Society of the Alpine stake, Mrs. Emma Jane Evans Roberts has been released, at her own request, in order to give more time to genealogical and temple work. Mrs. Roberts has from her youth been extremely active in church work. At the age of nine years, she was present at and chosen secretary of the first primary Association organized in Lehi, acting in that capacity until she entered the Y. L. M. I. A., in which organization she was counselor in the Lehi ward for a number of years. She was called into the Alpine stake Relief Society as treasurer and corresponding secretary, which position she held for twelve years, when she
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 147
was chosen counselor in the presidency. She was instrumental in planning lesson work for the Relief Society of Alpine stake before general outlines were given by the General Board. In May, 1914, Mrs. Roberts was chosen chairman of the stake genealogical work, and June 18, 1914, supervised the first excursion from 'Alpine stake to the Salt Lake temple, numbering three hundred, the largest session up to that time. Mrs. Roberts is at present a member of the Alpine stake genealogical board, and is family recorder and chairman of research and. Temple committee for the "David Evans Family Organization" (descendants of her father), chairman of research and temple committee for the Evans Surname organization, recording secretary for the Roberts Surname organization. She is also recording and looking after the temple work for several aged people in Lehi.
Mt. Ogden Stake. For the past two years the Mt. Ogden stake has had a commissary where quilts are made and all kinds of sewing done, each ward in the stake sewing there one day a month. The close touch and sympathy between stake and ward workers which came about through the constant association at the commissary have been factors in uniting the women of the stake in all their work. Six of the organizations in this stake and also the stake board have the Relief Society Magazine from 1914 to 1923 bound for reference. A prize was offered by the stake board to the ward Relief Society which had the greatest number who had read the Doctrine and Covenants during the year. The prize was won by the Twelfth ward which reported 112 who had completed the book.
Erratum
In the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize poems, published in the January, 1925 issue of The Magazine, three errors occurred:
"Oh, White-winged Gull," by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, has a mistake in the third line of the third stanza. It was printed: Wow, when my erring feet would stray, It should be: How, when my erring feet would stray,
The fourth line of the first stanza of '"The Pioneer Mother" by Mrs. 'Alice Morrill is printed, A selfish life?no weak reproach, nor plaint of cares and ceaseless moil, ' It should read: A selfless life?no weak reproach, nor plaint of cares and ceaseless moil. In the last line of the? stanza the word mighty should be nightly. Guide Lessons for May LESSON I (First Week in May) Theology and Testimony THE NOACHIAN DISPENSATION A. THE PERIOD 1. The Time?Though Noah was given the Priesthood at ten years of age, his calling as a dispensator was much later in his life. While we know that he labored long as a preacher of the gospel before the flood, and that his life's labors extended to three hundred and fifty years after the flood, we are not informed as to how long the work of the dispensation was carried on after his death. But it is safe to say that the dispensation extended over the second thousand years of the history of the Adamic race on the earth. 2. The Conditions?In spite of the success of the people of God in their efforts to make a heaven on earth, the masses of mankind indulged in conduct leading to conditions the very opposite of heaven. After the translation of Zion, things went from bad to worse for centuries. It would seem that the Evil One might have concluded that the Lord had taken what he wanted and had left the most of mankind to the mercy of Lucifer. But God had not yet turned the world, bad as it was, over to the "buffetings of Satan." Some good men remained on the earth. Methuselah, the son of Enoch, remained to fulfil a promise of the Lord made to Enoch: "For the Lord truly covenanted with Enoch that Noah should be of the fruit of his loins," (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 8:2). And in due time, Noah, the greatgrandson of Enoch, was born among a people rushing madly on to the doom of destruction. In the midst of social self-sufficiency and spiritual defiance, Noah was called to proclaim a halt and in the name of the Lord command repentance. Noah and his sons, because of their spiritual birth through baptism, and their divine authority through ordination, were recognized as sons of God, in honor by the Lord and possibly in derision by the unbelievers. These "sons of God" had superior children. Their daughters were "fair" (strikingly beautiful) and the "giants," the most powerful of unbelieving men, woed and won these daughters of the sons of God. This conquest of the sons of men through a self-selling by the covenant daughters