Pioneer Wagon Wheels." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1932, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first Page 10 prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were one hundred eleven poems submitted in this year's contest, as compared with ninety-seven entered last year. Many of the poems submitted this year revealed beauty of thought, and nearly all of the subjects of the entries were based upon an interesting and significant theme. Sixteen states and the Dominion of Canada were represented in this year's contest, the largest number of entries coming from Utah, with seventeen from California, ten from Idaho, seven from Colorado, six from Arizona, four from Nevada, three from Massachusetts, two each from Florida, Washington, Oregon, Wyoming, and Canada. One entry each came from Texas, Wisconsin, Montana, Minnesota, and Connecticut. _ | One of the 1950 prize winners has received previous awards in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, and two new poets are represented. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prizewinning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, _together with photographs and _ biographical