[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: IMPORTANCE OF DECISION. | Author: Unknown]

		IMPORTANCE OF DECISION.

	Is it better to spend half a life-time
contemplating what is best to do, than to make
up your mind to some laudable course of
conduct and make a bold attempt to reach
the mark you set out for, even though it be
not the highest on record, and, even though
you come short of gaining the exact point
you started for? I think not. True, “it is
better to move moderately than to move
wrong;" and it is well to “look before you
leap;” but indecision holds many a man from
achieving the most praiseworthy results of
high and noble ambition. A young man
realizes that he might become a first class
architect, or a superior workman of any
kind; he would like the trade, has the
abilities and, probably, there is nothing in
the way to interfere with his commencing
to learn at once. But it will require time
and patience and practice to acquire a
thorough knowledge of it, such as he would
need, if he undertook it, and possibly
something else may be presented that will
be a little easier and pay better just now—
the future stands away off and can be looked
after when it gets here. He will wait a year
or two, and look around. he does not
really know that the trade would suit him,
it might not be as much to his taste as he
imagines.  So the chance passes without
being improved, and the time slips away
and is lost. And thus people waste the
best and most useful days of their lives in
very many instances; and, nothing being
decided upon, nothing is accomplished.
	There is no necessity for taking what
seems to be a wrong step in order to move
in some direction. The way chosen may
not always prove the wisest; but we may
dally in uncertainty half our lives, for fear
of running a dangerous risk, and then make
the worst of mistakes when we are too old to
rise above and outlive them. 	Mignona.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			LOUISE E. GREENE, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
One copy one year, $2; one copy, six months, $1. Ten Copies
for the price of nine. Advertising rates: Each square, eight
lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2; per month, $3.
	Campbell & Patterson, General Agents, East Temple street,
Salt Lake City.
	Address all business communications to
					Publishers Woman’s Exponent,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.
			SALT LAKE CITY, MAY 15, 1873.


