[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | November | Issue: 10 | Title: DEAR AUNT EM: | Author: Unknown]

DEAR AUNT EM:
	We have as fine autumn weather in Cache
Valley this month as I ever knew of anywhere.
The evenings and early mornings are frosty
but the mid-time of day is warm and bright
with sunshine.
	The laboring men highly appreciate this
pleasant weather, as it affords them the oppor-
tunity of getting their winter supplies of fire-
wood from the canyons with so much more
ease and comfort than the same work could
be done in storms of snow and cold winds.
	The spirit of the Sixty-first semi-annual
conference of the church is being richly dif-
fused among the inhabitants here, whose
hearts are open to receive it, and who would
have been in those favored assemblies to hear
the pleasing words of God from the lips of his
Prophets, but for circumstances over which
they have had no control.  The leaven works
well.
	A Cache Valley Stake Conference of the
Relief Society was held in Logan on Monday
the 20th inst ; and the same spirit of exhorta-
tion and blessings for all, that characterized
the General R. S. Conference held at S. L.
City on the 7th inst.. rested upon the speakers
both morning and afternoon, and permeated
the hearts of the congregations.
	Taking this as a sample of the different
Stakes of Zion, have we not great reason to
rejoice that the women of the Latter-
day Saints are not all sleeping so
soundly as to let their lamps go out ? If
"five" will be counted foolish, when the com-
ing of the Bridegroom is heralded, let us be
thankful indeed that there will also be "five"
who will be wise.
	A conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Stake, was advertised in the R.S. Conference;
the Stake Primary Association was also
represented, showing that these organizations
are well looked after by the Sisters in charge
of them.
	Nothing new has reached me yet, in rela-
tion to the Woman’s Suffrage work in this
valley; but I am hoping for news of it soon.
	So many dear old friends and familiar
scenes of my girlhood are still to be found in
Cache Valley, that I sometimes almost for-
get the lapse of years dividing the present
from the past, when with father and mother,
brothers and sisters, I spent so many happy
days in our quiet, peaceful home.  The sur-
roundings are changed, to be sure, but not so
greatly as one might suppose in twenty years.
	 The same bright stream of water, "Summit
Creek," along whose banks I, with my sisters
gathered the sweet wild roses, wiih which to
brighten the room of some sick friend, or
make our own home more cheery, still flows


through the town.  And the "Old School
House is altered some," but still stands as a
relic of by gone days.
							LULA.
"Summit," Cache Valley.


