[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

﻿IN RURAL ENGLAND.

				XXV.
	The preparations for the wedding of
Lady Anna Hilliard were very different
and much more elaborate than those of her
cousin's marriage had been,on a far grander
scale and indeed every detail connected
therewith seemed of so much consequence
that it was not only a nine days wonder
but all the people round about including
the servants as well as the masters and
mistresses scarcely talked of anything else.
All the old stories of the feud between Sir.
Edward and Lord Walton were reiterated
and amply enlarged upon and the love affair
in which Lady Walton had figured con-
spicuously was not left out of any conver-
sation upon the subject, and the young heir
Clairville Hilliard was served up with his
gipsy mother, and all the slanderous reports
that had been circulated at that period con-
cerning the doings at the Castle-
	Happily for Lady Anna these reports did
not reach her, she was so far removed from
the gossip of these newsmongers but Mrs.
Bland was not so fortunate and she became
quite weary of the repetition of these idle
tales and of disputing many of the slanders
that were brought to her in confidence by
meddlers and people who really wanted
"only to know the truth," according to
their own statement.  Mrs.  Bland knew
however that these gossipers were only
coming for more news to retail, but she
generally gave them a plain lesson upon
matters and sent them away with the im-
pression that, "it was none of their affair."
	Mrs. Bland's influence even in this res-
pect was salutary, and things quieted
down considerably,though Lord Walton did
not escape a quarrel or two with his friends,
(such they called themselves) about young
Walton's anticipated union with the daugh-
ter of Sir Edward who had made himself so
obnoxious in the vicinity, notwithstanding
"his title and possesions and his handsome
daughter," as they sneeringly alluded to
the marriage.
	Each time Lord Walton met with sneers
and ridicule he vented his spleen at home
and his wife and son both grew very tired
of his perpetual interference.  Sometimes
he was actually brutal and once or twice
struck his son, who threatened in turn to
be revenged upon the men who had enraged
his father if he could only ascertain who
they were.  Lady Walton though suffering,
keenly through it all, wore a smiling face
and sought to conciliate her husband by all
the means in her power.  Finally he declar-
ed on one occasion that he could not and
would not remain in England and suffer
such indignities, he would go over to the
continent, until the marriage ceremony was
over and the gossip had died out.  Lady
Walton did not remonstrate, for she felt
what a relief it would be to them all; he
was so annoyed at her seeming indifference
that he swore she should not be so much
her own mistress, he would stay at home
now, and spoil their pleasure; in fact the
man was to all appearances jealous of the
affection of his wife for her own son,
ridiculous as it may appear.  Things grew
worse daily between them, he could not
endure the sight of either of the Hilliards
and at last forbade their presence at the
Hall.
	Maitland was furious and all the efforts
of his mother were unavailing to quiet him;
in the quarrel between father and son the
whole story of the engagement between

[Column 2]
Sir Edward and his mother came out and
the boy's happiness was almost shattered,
but his mother besought him not to break
the heart of one so tender and loving as
Anna because of the bitter past, and his
better nature prevailed, and the young man
determined to be true to his manly instincts
and let the past alone.  Lord Walton had
allowed himself to give way to such violent
fits of anger, that like the man he affected
to despise his constitution was likely to
give way, and to prostrate himself or be-
come insane with pride and jealousy.
	Unknown to his wife he had been living
a very fast life and his money had been
drifting away from him rapidly, this preyed
upon his mind too,and he was attacked with
sudden illness which developed brain fever,
and just when the marriage was to have
taken place Lord Walton was lying helpless
and unconscious of his condition.  At times
he talked and raved of the past, and the
physicians in attendance not knowing the
cause of his sickness or that there was any
"method in his madness," wished his wife
to be constantly at his bedside, whereas
she knew through the old faithful nurse
who had been with them from the time of
her marriage, that he was always more
rational when she was absent.
	It was a trying time indeed for Lady
Walton, but she kept up bravely and one
looking on could not have guessed the sor-
row that had entered into her soul.  Some
weeks of watching and nursing and weary
waiting and a slight change for the better
gave them hope of recovery.  The invalid
restored once more to his senses inquired
about the contemplated union and learning
it had been delayed in consequence of his
serious illness, begged them to wait no
longer but let the ceremony be performed,and
as it seemed to be his positively expressed
wish—it was decided that the young people
should be married without further delay.
	As the ceremony was to be performed at
the Castle and all the festivities were to
take place there, it would not interefere
with Lord Walton who was not even able
to drive over in a carriage.  Rob Harrison
came from London to give away the bride,
and the Bishop was to officiate on this
grand occasion assisted by the young rector
who had married the Doctor and Jane Con-
way.  Quite a number of Maitland's rela-
tives were to be present, uncles, aunts and
cousins and most of Sir Edward's relatives,
thought they cared nothing for Anua, yet
the grandeur of the event was sufficient in
itself to bring them hundreds of miles to
witness the marriage and enjoy the cele-
bration and banquet.
	The housekeeper was very consequential
and resented the coming of those people who
had behaved so badly at the time of Sir
Edward's funeral.  She declared she would
not have them in the house, bnt after much
persuasion from both Clair and Lady Anna
she reluctantly consented to hold her peace.
Everything was on the most magnificent
scale for the time and place, and even Lady
Walton's fastidious tastes were gratified,
Mr. Harrison had assisted with both advice
and positive help; had sent from the great
metropolis many things rich and rare, and
such an abundance of choice flowers, that
with those the gardens there afforded, the
whole place was like Eden itself cr  a
fairy land, with bloom and fragrance.
	Anna's French maid and half a dozen
other seamstresses had prepared such a
trousseau, as the country families thereabouts
had never before seen, and there seemed


nothing wanting to make the affair perfect
in every detail except the presence of the
father in law elect. The bride and bride-
groom were to leave the morning after the
wedding for the continent, and on returning
to spend the winter in London. This was
Lady Anna’s idea of happiness, and Uncle
Rob or any one else had not objected, as it
was somehow instrinctively felt, that the
postponement was unpropitious and that it
was not likely to turn out happily in the
end.
	At last the long-looked for day came; it
was in chilly November and the fields were
bare and bleak and a terrific wind the even-
ing previous had shook the rickety old
castle and whistled and shrieked around it,
and the great elm trees creaked and groaned
and one or two not far from the house snap-
ped asunder. Lady Anna would have giv-
en way to dismal forebodings had her Un-
cle Rob not been with her to cheer her de-
presed spirits. Clair who was usually light-
hearted could scarcely be pacified and after
his sister had retired for the night, sat long
with Mr. Harrison telling him of the pre-
monitions he felt, and of what the servants
had been talking of ever since the postpone-
ment of the marriage.
	When he ventured to express to Mr. H.
his impression that some great event either
good or bad was about to transpire which
concerned the house and the family, then
Mr. H. replied in confidence, “probably we
are all going to leave England, at least I am
sure that I shall before very long, and you
would perhaps like to accompany me to the
far East, as it will be very dull here and
the estate can easily be let to some compe-
tent person: the lodge keeper who has been
so long in your father’s employ will look
after your interests, and you ought to see a
little of the world and know more of men
and business, now’s your time, before mar-
riage.”
	Clair was over-joyed though he would
have preferred his own dear native land to
the far East, yet he was too undemonstra-
tive even to make such a suggestion and re-
plied, to “Uncle Rob,” as he too sometimes
called him,that as soon as the fuss and flurry
of his sister’s wedding was over he would
put everything in proper shape with the
help of his lawyers and join him at his
lodgings in London.
	It was just what Rob Harrison liked
though it had not been premeditated, and
he felt too that it would be quite beneficial
to the young Baronet. It was near morn-
ing ere the two retired and the night was
dark and fierce gusts of wind were sweep-
ing over the country. No one slept much
in that old place for it seemed more than
ever forlorn, though the house was filled
with guests, who had been arriving for the
last two or three days.
	At the first grey streaks of dawn Lady
Anna rose and called her maid, feeling she
must speak to some one, and of all her rela-
tives there was not a single person among
them to whom she could speak of the things
that lay near her heart.
	“And so I am to leave my old home to-
day never to return as its mistress, Marie?”
	“And aren’t you glad my Lady that you
are going to get a fine handsome man, rich
and stylish, who adores you with all his
soul, surely that ought to satisfy any young
lady.”
	“You do not understand me girl, no one
ever does, not even my cousin Mrs. Bland,
though she knows me best of all the world,
but I have feelings I cannot explain,doubts
[Column 2]
and perplexities, I dare say they were born
with me, I recollect my old nurse Raynor
used to say, I had too much sentiment, and
it cropped out at the wrong time: this cer-
tainly is an inopportune time to be moody—
let us get every thing ready; nine o’clock
comes soon these dark mornings, my cousin
who is an early riser will be coming over
here and she shall not find me sad or droop-
ing on my wedding day.”
	Marie thus addressed began to get out the
finery—the beautiful morning gown was
donned in haste and the maid rang for Lady
Anna’s tea to be brought up stairs, for she
had declared to the housekeeper she would
not breakfast with all those people whom
she had so seldom seen, if they were the
nearest relatives. So Clair was left to keep
them in countenance and maintain the dig-
nity of the establishment, with the ever
helpful Uncle Rob, while Anna sipped her
tea, and dallied with her toast and muffins
scarcely swallowing a mouthful.
	As the great clock of the Castle struck
eight Mrs. Bland was ushered in and in-
formed her cousin that Maitland with his
retinue had arrived, and with the air of one
who brings good news, she added, “I have
heard it is always a good omen when the
bridegroom comes early.” Just these few
words raised Anna’s spirits and she began
to talk cheerfully almost gaily, as the maid
displayed her finery one piece after another;
the veil was the most delicate lace, the gift
of Uncle Rob, and the dress was the most
exquisite India Silk profusely trimmed with
Venetian lace and pearls. Her luxuriant
golden hair was loosely knotted with pearls
and crowned her like an aureole. Never
was a bride more fittingly arrayed and as
her cousin gazed upon her beautiful face
and kissed her again and again before they
left her boudoir she could not forbear say-
ing, “Was ever a bride so charming?”
And under her breath she said, “and neither
father or mother to bid her God speed or
bestow a blessing.” Anna caught the
meaning and for a moment both shed tears
of loneliness though not of repining, and
then the cheery manly voice of Uncle Rob
called to them to come down; in the great
oak drawing room Doctor Bland and Clair,
Burke and Hemenway,the Bishop and Rec-
tor were waiting, the other guests were in
the ante-rooms and waited the summons,
Maitland and his mother joined Lady Anna
her cousin and Uncle Rob in the library,
where the formal greetings were given and
received, and then Anna leaning upon
Uncle Rob’s arm and almost fainting with
extreme nervousness stepped forward into
the grand archway (that had been purposely
arranged, and beautifully wreathed with the
fairest flowers) where waited young Wal-
ton his heart beating high with a conscious
pride of the fulfillment of his fondest hopes.
Whispers of approval ran through the as-
sembled company and soon the words were
pronounced that made Lady Anna Hilliard
and Maitland Walton husband and wife.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


