[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | October | Issue: 8 | Title: COLUMBUS DAY. | Author: Unknown]

COLUMBUS DAY.

	EARLY in the morning of the 21st of
October the school children of this City as-
sembled in the various districts to march in
procession and later on the streets were
filled with them and crowds of people gath-
ered to see the exercises and certainly lt was
a beautiful sight. Bands of music were in
attendance, flags and banners gaily floating
in the breeze, the day was fine and all things
propitious. Perfect order was kept and
about eight thousand children marched two
and two to the large Tabernacle where they
were seated and the programme as arranged
was carried out. Presidents Wilford Wood-
ruff, Geo. Q. Cannon and other prominent
men were among the spectators occupying
a position near the choir.
	Prof. Malone of the High School read
the President’s proclamation for the day to
be observed as a holiday, and Miss Alice
Rowe by request read Gov. Thomas’s proc-
lamation for this Territory.
	The ceremony of raising the flag was per-
formed by the veterans of the G. A. R. the
flag was just in front of the organ, and
afterwards remained suspended, the Taber-
nacle juvenile choir band struck the air
“America” and as the flag reached the top
of the staff the rolling drum was heard and
the veterans led the assemblage in three
cheers for old glory.
	The Hurrahs were inspiring from so
many childish voices. After singing of

[Column 2]
America by the children the Rev. Dr. Utter
offered prayer and then a song for Columbus
Day composed for the occasion was sung,
the effect of the music by such a multitude
was exceedingly grand.
	Other exercises of a most interesting and
intellectual character followed, all calculated
to make a deep impression upon the minds
and hearts of the children.
	Similar exercises were held in the Latter-
day Saints College, the Utah University 
and in the various schools in all parts of the
Territory.
	In the afternoon a grand concert was
given in the Tabernacle also in the evening,
at which time fully a thousand voices,
joined in the choruses and anthems etc.,
under the leadership of the famous
musicians Professors Evan Stephens, Thos.
Radcliffe, and H. E. Giles, who deserve
the highest encomiums of praise for the
grand success achieved.
	Chief Justice Zane delivered an eloquent
address and Bishop O. F. Whitney read an
historical poem on Columbus of his own
composition, which was received with
hearty applause and created considerable
enthusiasm. The poem as a whole was a
beautiful tribute to the memory of the great
discoverer and also to our own Washington,
and contains many superb passages, rich
with thought and exquisite in feeling and
altogether telling in sentiment. The
language sublime and the construction quite
in keeping with the glorious theme. We
intend publishing it in full in our next
issue; and consider it worthy a place in the
History of Utah. The singing was excel-
lent and one should mention many of the
performers specially, but our space is so lim-
ited we can only mention Miss Lillian
Roberts, of Provo who charmed the audi-
ence with her sweet voice and Mrs. Anne
Colburn Plummer who both gave rich se-
lections and were vociferously applauded.
The musical merit of the cencert is unques-
tionably excellent.


[column 1]
COLUMBUS DAY IN CHICAGO.
---
	THE commencement of the dedicatory
ceremonies of the Columbian Exposition be-
gan in Chicago on the 19th of October with
the formal inaugural reception to the guests
of honor.
	It would be utterly futile to attempt a
description of the magnificence of the prepa-
rations and paraphernalia though only cul-
ling from dispatches, so we shall only say,
there was a great procession of official digni-
taries, and distinguished guests foreign and
native born, and the decorations included
carloads of flowers and smilax, and besides
the stars and stripes,the colors of Spain and
Italy and the flags and banners of all
nations.
	After famous selections rendered by the
grand orchestra a grand march was led by
the military officers into which the moving
throng merged, and floating into a quad-
rille, the blaze and dazzle of the insignia
and glitter of the costumes and the rhythmic
motion of the dancers must have been a liv-

[column 2]
ing poem set to such thrilling music as the
world has seldom if ever seen.
	The description of the dresses worn by
the ladies is something appaling, and we
therefore leave such matters to society
writers, and content ourselves with men-
tioning only the two national lady commis-
sioners from Utah; Mrs. Margaret Blaine
Salisbury wore a dress of white faille
Francaise embroidered in silver with orna-
ments of diamonds and pearls, Mrs.
Whalen's gown was a canary colored crepe
trimmed in brocade orange ribbons with or-
naments of diamonds.
	Dispatches of the 20th, October say,
"Last night society set the glittering seal of
her approval upon the World's Fair."  The
ceremonies have been as successful and even
more so than had been anticipated since the
first notice of the outbreak of cholera
abroad.  The feasting and dancing and
such like festivities as also the toasting and
speech-making have all been of the highest
order possible.  The one great drawback to
the enjoyment of the occasion has been the
absence of the Chief Executive of the nation
and the lamentable cause, viz. the serious
illness of his wife, by whose bedside he is
tenderly watching, while these great events
in which both were expected to take the
most prominent part are being celebrated.
	Ex-President Cleveland out of courtesy
and respect and with a laudable appreacia-
tion of the position of President Harrison
voluntarily absents himself from the scenes
of attraction in which he also was expected
to play an active part.
	The dedicatory oration by Hon. Henry
Watterson was an eloquent effort though
hastily prepared, we quote one of the open-
ing paragraphs.
	"We are met this day to honor the mem-
ory of Christopher Columbus, to celebrate
the four hundreth annual return of the year
of his transcendant achievement and with
fitting riches to dedicate to America and the
universe  the concrete exposition of the
world's progress between 1492 and 1892."
	In his closing remarks he alluded to the
display made by the children of the schools
all over the land in these beautiful words:
	"These, indeed, are our crown jewels, 
the truest though inevitable offspring of our
civilization and development; representa-
tives of a manhood vitalized and invigorated
by toil and care; of womanhood elevated
and inspired by liberty and education.  God
bless the children and their mothers.  God
bless our contry's flag, and God be with
us now and ever.  God in our roof-trees
shaded and God on the highway; God in
the winds and waves and God in all our
hearts."
	Mrs. Potter Palmer delivered an address
on the "Work of the Board of Lady
Managers," and made a grand showing and
also offered congratulations and greetings to
the women of all lands.
	Mrs. Henroitin gave a salutation in honor
of Queen Isabella which was highly ap-
plauded.
	There were several speeches by dis-
tinguished, well-known orators and choruses
and anthems and orations, and the cere-
monies closed with a most brilliant and
wonderful display of fireworks, represent-
ing the greatest events and also places etc.
In the evening the Auditorium was the
scene of a Columbian Congress, purely in-
tellectual in which women participated.


George Wm. Curtis by his will left all
his property absolutely to his wife.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


