The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: BLESS MY ALONENESS. Bless my aloneness As thou, too, shalt bless The farmer's sowing In the silent fields. Let fling in solitude's Vast earth The glowing seeds of hope And work and love. Let me behold What challenge waits me here, What treasure these hours are What thoughts can spring To nugget finding roads, Galleons of dreams returning Filled from prow to stern With silks and emeralds, From lands I never thought To know. Bless my aloneness As thou didst bless The crowded years, Help me sow roses, Lord, Not salt of tears.

Margery S. Stewart Weber River, Near Ogden, Utah Transparency by Hal Rumel Lithographed in Full Color by _� News Press Mount Nebo, Utah, With a Frontage of Wheat Fields Photograph by Willard Luce

Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 561 4 4 FHP, Ri NEF UT Mabel Harmer's story "If Spring Be Late" (beginning April 1968) becomes more interesting with each chapter. I find myself really absorbed in it.

"'Say Peanut Butter'" (by Janice T. Dixon, May 1968) is precious. So seldom do we find anything to smile over and it was told in such a happy way. The poetry in the Magazine is all excellent.

Dorothy C. Robinson, Orem, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine is the most important magazine that I own. We seldom see the names of people from this area in the From Near and Far department. Recently, however, I attended Brigham Young University Education week in Potomac Stake, and there I met Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society. She was our music director when 300 Singing Mothers sang at the World's Fair in 1964. It was a thrilling experience to see her again.

I love all the contents of The Relief Society Magazine—lessons, the Home Inside and Out, general features, fiction, and, especially, the poetry.

Violet B. Colleti Alexandria, Virginia

I am so happy to receive The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish that I am writing to express my gratitude to you. I am Spanish, and I live in France, where we have lived for more than six years. My husband is president of the branch here in Toulouse, where we are all active.

I congratulate you dear sisters on this Magazine. It carries a high morality, and gives much spirituality. It helps me very much in my personal life.

I bid you farewell, and send you a strong embrace from a sister who loves you.

Elvire Turtos, Toulouse, France

My dear friend Sister Kirk brings me The Relief Society Magazine, which I read from cover to cover, and find the stories so uplifting, and learn so much from the articles and special features.

Eileen Brown, Radford, Nottingham, England

My son Fred who is on a mission in Germany was recently visiting in the home of an American soldier, and the wife brought out the Magazine containing my article about the Bancroft flood (July 1962). Fred said, "I was real proud of you, Mom."

Frances C. Yost, Bancroft, Idaho

I first heard the gospel in Rio Cuarto, Argentina, where I was baptized eighteen years ago. Since then my testimony has grown every day, as well as my happiness with the certainty that this is the only true Church of God upon the earth.

I am very grateful to my Heavenly Father for his guidance, and because he always answers my prayers.

Nineteen months ago I came to the United States. One of my sources of joy is to be able to receive The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish, and, through reading it, to grow in knowledge and faith.

Through its pages, I would like to send greetings to all my brothers and sisters in the Church in Argentina, and to all the ex-missionaries who were guests in my home while they were serving their missions.

Carmela F. Valentich, Norwalk, California

I would like to thank you sincerely for the publication of my recipes (April 1968), and for the payment, which came in handy to help buy Brother and Sister Ronald Coleby and their daughters Marjorie and Linda a going-away present.

They came home here from Salt Lake City five years ago, after being there for ten and a half years. Now they have returned to Salt Lake City, Linda having received a scholarship at the University of Utah.

We have had a good many missionaries stay with us through the years. Our Relief Society Magazine is a wonderful book. All of the sisters here seem to enjoy the lessons. I especially like to read President McKay's writings. He is a wonderful man and an inspiration to us all.

Mary Ann Adams, Lowestoft, Suffolk, England 562

The Relief Society Magazine Volume 55 August 1968 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 564 Latter-day Saint Women and the Nursing Profession Marian W. Jensen 568 Literary Contest Announcements 1968 572 Lady On Survival Marie Call Webb Fiction 577 Moment Out of Time Rosa Lee Lloyd 588 Kitchen Money Sylvia Probst Young 603 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 5 Mabel Harmer General Features 562 From Near and Far 583 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 584 Editorial—Obedience in Depth Marianne C. Sharp 586 Notes to the Field—The Relief Society Annual General Conference; Teaching Aid Packet for Spiritual Living Lessons; Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet 587 Mary V. Cameron Resigns From the General Board 611 Notes from the Field—Relief Society Activities 640 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 582 Progression Eunice P. Ravsten 595 A Letter to My Daughter Jane Scott 596 The Cast-on Bootee Dorothy F. Condry 598 Three Rules for Making Jam Ida Isaacson 598 Extra Special Pancakes Doris C. Kinsley 599 Elsie Egan Asay—Many Hobbies Keep Her Busy 600 Rolls For Many Occasions Mildred Lewis 602 Leavening Annie C. Esplin Lesson Department 619 Spiritual Living—The Fruits of Apostasy Roy W. Doxey 624 Visiting Teacher Message—"Let Every Man Esteem His Brother As Himself" Alice Colton Smith 626 Homemaking—Christmas Traditions Celestia J. Taylor 628 Social Relations—The Questions Every Woman Asks Alberta H. Christensen 632 Cultural Refinement—'"The Power of Discipline"' Robert K. Thomas Poetry 561 Bless My Aloneness Margery S. Stewart Wayfarer, Gladys Hesser Burnham 567; Summer-Long Saturday, Alice Brady Myers 570; Faith, Caroline Eyring Miner 571; Colors, Beulah Huish Sadlier 576; Sea Snow, Carole Poelman Feltch 586; Sun in the East, Maria C. De Illescas 587; Love, Ruth G. Rothe 593; Loath to Leave, Maude O. Cook 594; My Father's Watch, Christie Lund Coles 597; Close Neighbors, Melba S. Payne 598; Our Great-Grandma, Rebecca J. Welker 601; Swift Shadows, Lucille R. Perry 602; Reflections, Margaret Read 610; Dew Sweet Interim, Maxine R. Jennings 625; Interval, Elena Hassell Stanley 631; High Link Fence, Pearle M. Olsen 638; Once Upon a Moment, Dorothy J. Roberts 638.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

Latter-day Saint Women and the Nursing Profession

On the banks of the Chariton River in Iowa, a company of covered wagons rumbled along at a slow but steady pace. "Now, Sister Zina," said the captain of the company, "you go just as long as you can. When you say stop, we'll halt." And thus this Mormon mother gave birth to her first child.

The saints had crossed the icy Mississippi River in the cold of February. They hastily erected some tents, and in the cold and damp of that first night, nine babies were born. There were not enough blankets, not enough medical facilities, and there was not enough food. As the encampments spread out along the trail, we read from one diary of tragedy—the death of twenty people from scurvy, forty-five dead of malaria, and more than one hundred fifty babies dead from infantile diarrhea. This occurred in one small encampment!

The Prophet Joseph Smith had predicted that the suffering of the saints would be almost unbearable at times. His prediction proved true. When the first company of pioneers entered the Salt Lake Valley in 1847, they were one hundred forty-eight in number. The settlers swelled in such numbers, however, that, by 1850, there were over eleven thousand inhabitants in Salt Lake County alone.

Yet, among this large and growing population, there was, apparently, not a single graduate of a regular medical college in the entire area! It is well known that the Mormons were a child-bearing people, and also that they were trained in assisting one another. When a Mormon midwife received three dollars for her skill in assisting with the birth of a baby, she returned to her own family feeling well paid for her services.

One such midwife, Patty Sessions, recorded that she helped deliver over 3,977 babies. Of these deliveries, she reports having trouble with only two of them! Another prominent midwife, Zina D. H. Young, a wife of President Brigham Young, delivered over fifty of his children. She was loved not only for her needed skill but for her kindness and loving temperament.

Latter-day Saint Women and the Nursing Profession

Still, despite the heroic services of the many Mormon midwives, the problems of bearing children became "almost unbearable." Many mothers lay in bed for months after delivery, deliriously ill with raging temperatures or "child-bed fever." Other mothers successfully recovered from the delivery only to lose their child or children from the diseases of the day—typhoid, scarlet fever, diptheria, and, most common of all, infantile diarrhea. The infant mortality rate was high—too high.

In one particular instance forty-nine percent of the total deaths came to children under two years of age. The story of infant mortality is best told in the words of a Mormon heroine, Aurelia Spencer Rogers. She wrote: "My tenth child, which we named William, was born on the 31st of May, 1871, and only lived until the 17th of August, then died of cholera infantum. I had doted so much on this child, and now he was taken; this making three children that I had lost in succession. Of my ten children only five remained. It seemed as if my last hope was gone. I almost lost faith in God. I doubted the existence of a Supreme Being."

As President Brigham Young traveled from stake to stake, he must have been deeply concerned over the sorrows of these pioneer mothers. He must have been convinced that this situation had to be overcome. Probably the way was with the newly advancing profession of medicine.

During this time of sorrow, President Brigham Young gave several discourses in the Tabernacle. He aroused the enthusiasm of many women. They decided to study medicine. Among his listeners was one hardy mother, Romania Pratt. In order for her to attend medical school in the East, she sold her coveted piano (the first in Utah), and she and her husband sold their home. Romania's devoted mother agreed to care for their children.

For two years Romania studied in the East, and, in 1877, graduated from the Women's Medical College in Philadelphia with a degree of Doctor of Medicine. She was the first Utah woman to have this medical degree. She returned to her home State where she obtained a fine reputation in obstetrics, both as a teacher and as a practitioner.

Dr. Pratt had paved the way for other Utah women to gain medical educations. Ellis Shipp, Margaret Shipp Roberts, Jane Skolfield, and Martha Hughes Cannon were some of the daring Mormon mothers who also gained medical degrees. After two or more years of study in the East, and often at great financial sacrifice, these women returned to Utah armed with knowledge and skill.

This medical armor proved effective in the war against the diseases of the day. "Childbed fever" (caused by a streptococcus bacteria) was eliminated. The infantile diarrhea (also of bacterial origin) was largely erased. The epidemics of diptheria and typhoid were largely controlled. The infant mortality rate dropped dramatically.

These women not only practiced medicine but also taught. Through the efforts of Dr. Ellis Shipp, nursing classes were conducted throughout the State. Standards of sanitation and nutrition were improved. She and her physician husband began publishing, in 1888, a monthly medical journal, The Salt Lake Sanitarian, for lay citizens of the State.

In The Sanitarian mothers were instructed in better methods of infant care, with current advice from leading doctors of the day. This publication was an ambitious undertaking and in advance of its time, for it was not until six years later that a book on this subject was published nationally called The Care and Feeding of Children, by L. Emmett Holt.

Thanks to medical advances, remarkable progress had been made. By about 1950 only one out of every thirty-three babies died before the end of the first year. These gains were dramatic.

Still, the fight was not yet won. There were still mountains to climb, oceans to cross, and frontiers to conquer. The Mormon population was once largely encompassed in the State of Utah and adjacent areas. It now spreads across fifty States, six continents, and to the isles of the sea.

Today many Latter-day Saint women give birth to their children away from their home States and away from the help of their mothers or relatives. True, the initial care given to mothers today in modern hospitals is superior care; nevertheless, for most women childbirth still has associated with it some real problems. A new mother returning home from the hospital after a short two to three-day stay desperately needs help—despite all the excellent hospital care she has received.

When a mother comes home from a hospital today, the sisters in the ward give willingly of their talents in the preparation of food and in child care. But if a sister is seriously ill or convalescing from an operation, she may need professionally trained help. She may require the skill of a registered nurse. Other sisters in the ward assist in ways in which they are able, but they frequently lack the professional knowledge to deal with bacteriological or medical problems.

The need for professional training is great. Today, there are places where this training can be obtained as there never was before available in the history of the world. A young girl or a mature woman who wishes to obtain this training need not travel to Philadelphia or to New York. If financially able, she can attend Brigham Young University's School of Nursing and, with determination and persistence, she can graduate as a registered nurse. If she cannot afford going away to school, or if there are other real deterrents, she can study in any accredited nursing school near her L.D.S.

Women and the Nursing Profession

After graduation, she can find a nursing position in almost any area of the world. She will help fill an acute nursing shortage. If, however, in the course of completing her training, she meets a young man who wins her heart, she can use her newly acquired nursing skill in caring for her own little brood, and in assisting in the ward in which she resides. If she graduates in nursing as a mature woman, whose children are grown, she can use her newly found time to good advantage in either part or full-time nursing positions. She need not feel now that her children have gone, that she is no longer needed. For she is needed—by many.

As the Latter-day Saint women of the pioneer days responded to fill the needs of their day, so do Latter-day Saint women of today respond to the needs of our generation. The Latter-day Saint philosophy teaches growing, learning, and giving. Nursing involves all three.

Nursing—a noble profession.

A Wayfarer If only there were maps to help A wayfarer of the mind, Down chartless seas of timelessness, His journeyings would wind. Each must his own route fathom To the center of his being Where his own island of serenity Awaits perceptive seeing. —Gladys Hesser Burnham

Literary Contest Announcements 1968 The Relief Society Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other.

The Relief Society Poem Contest

The Relief Society Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1968. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize—$40 Second prize—$30 Third prize—$20 Prize poems will be published in the April 1969 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.

Rules for the contest:

1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board.
2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.)
4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks.
5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem.
6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used.
7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying:
a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
b. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work.
c. That it has never been published.
d. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication.
e. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.
8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision.

In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points:
1. Message or theme
2. Form and pattern
3. Rhythm and meter
4. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem
5. Climax

Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1968.

All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.

The Relief Society Short Story Contest

The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1968 opens with this announcement and closes November 15, 1968. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize—$75 Second prize—$60 Third prize—$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published in the April 1969 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. Also, the General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.

Rules for the contest:

1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication.
2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant.
3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss.
4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used.
5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying:
a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
b. That the story (state title) is the contestant's original work.
c. That it has never been published.
d. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication.
e. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.

Entries must be postmarked not later than November 15, 1968.

All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111.

That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) 569 August 1968
6. First prize for two consecutive years.
9. Entries must be postmarked no later than November 15, 1968.
8. Member person from the General Board, on the English department.
That the story submitted (state of an educational institution, and one's title and number of words) is by a recognized writer. In the contestant's original work. Case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. Will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.
In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: plot development, writing style, and explanatory material or pictures.
The Relief Society Short Story Contest
Fe ag 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah
SUMMER-LONG SATURDAY We summer together in nature's long Saturday. It is the day of the whispered secret:
There is a hummingbird nest In the crotch of an elm bough Above a banquet table Spread petunia-red.
It is the never-alone time: Many hands unite over rake and spade, Over jam kettle and sweetened ladle; Many eyes finger plump cherries in glass cages; Many small arms Swing brown and free.
Alice Brady Myers
Message of the story:
"Light and shadow in Kamas Valley, Utah"
E. Ur P. Ny ws
t. Mahi.
Dorothy J. Roberts
FAITH Faith, like a match glow In the misty morning, Flickers briefly And is gone. In mid-day its fire Glows with the sun In splendid brilliance Like a field Of stars. But in the evening, When it js the only light, Like a lone star On a black blanket It is as the sun at night He whole illumination of my life.
Caroline Eyring Miner
571 Survival Marie Call Webb
The summer ranger in the Dog Valley region of the Toiyabee National Forest lowered his powerful binoculars to wipe the lenses. Adjusting the focus, he turned once more toward a clump of tall incense cedars. "She's there, all right," he muttered to himself. "But I just don't believe it." He dropped the glasses into a leather case strapped to his belt. "Better get a closer look at what's-her-name down there." His easy woodsman's lope carried him quickly down over the rough terrain. His goal, a camp of sorts. His first sight of it puzzled him. Its occupant, a woman, moved about, apparently getting lunch. She wandered first one way, then another, tasting; then she would stop to count her pulse.
Count her pulse? His long legs fairly leaped the distance between them. "Lady, what on earth are you doing?" he demanded. She faced him with a gasp. Then, seeing the forest green of his ranger's uniform, she smiled. "My goodness, young man, I didn't hear you coming. Are you part Indian? I guess not, with those blue eyes. What am I doing? I'm counting my pulse." "But why? What are you doing here? This is National Forest—restricted area. Who are you? Who's with you? You sick? You don't look it. So why are you counting your pulse?" He stopped because the lady was laughing at him. "I'm Doris Jackson, young man. And I have a permit to be here." She lifted a slip of paper from a pouch at her waist and handed it to him. "See. And I'm all alone. Oh, yes, the pulse. My survival manual says to chew and swallow tiny bits of vegetation if I'm not sure what it is. If my pulse doesn't go up, it's good to eat." "And if your pulse goes up?" He looked skeptical. "Then I put my finger down my throat, lose what I've swallowed, and try something else."
"Well!" He looked down at her—five-feet-two of her. From the saucy white sailor's hat on the back of her closely cropped graying hair, to her jeans and thick-soled, high-topped boots, she looked every inch a plump little grandmother with an engaging grin.
"Will you stay to lunch?" she asked, with a wide sweep of her arm. "T guess not, Mrs. Jackson. I'm used to roughing it, but raw leaves? You better tell me about it." "Do you mind if I get on with my meal while we talk? [I'm headed for that patch of yarrow up the draw. Thought I would try yarrow-root pancakes for supper."
"Yarrow-root pancakes? I'm forest ranger Tom Mickelson. Go on, Mrs. Jackson, you'd better tell me what makes you tick. The boys at the station will never believe this." Doris Linabery Jackson is a fifty-five-year-old widow, living in Provo, Utah, working at the Brigham Young University press. A convert to the Church in 1954, she shares her home with her eighteen-year-old son, LeeRoi, and her friend, Zarra Holman Pefley. Asked to test survival techniques for the Provo Stake camp program, she first enrolled in Larry Dean Olsen's survival course, which is offered by the Department of Special Courses at the Brigham Young University. Then because, as a child, she had been taken into the Sierra Nevada Mountains as her father's hunting and fishing companion, she chose that area to try out, alone, the survival techniques she had studied.
Could a woman follow the program, live entirely off the land for a week, and come out healthy and in good spirits? In the first week of June 1965, Doris was driven into the Dog Valley area thirteen miles west of Reno, Nevada, by Sister Pefley. They hiked up an old wash to a stand of tall conifers, then, chopping down and trimming five saplings, lashed the first between two of the tallest trees. Next they leaned two from the ends of the first to the ground, which sloped upward behind the trees. Placing the remaining two across the angled branches, they wove pine boughs in and out among the three horizontal poles. Doris dug a shallow trench between the lean-to and the slope, and her bedroom was ready.
"T wanted that trench," says Doris, "just in case it rained."

I had no intention of being washed out of bed and down the mountain in the middle of the night." Doris and Zarra laid a square of heavy plastic under the lean-to and unrolled their sleeping bags. Zarra had insisted on helping with the shelter and staying the night to assist the experiment to a good start. Both women love the out-of-doors. 'As we said our prayers that night," recalls Doris, "we felt very close to our Heavenly Father under his beautiful sky. My father taught me the names of many of the constellations, and those old friends seemed very near." Sunrise found Zarra on her way to Reno and breakfast. Doris watched the dusty blue car bump and twist its way down the narrow, winding fire warden's trail. When it dropped out of sight over the brow of the rocky talus slope, she followed its dust cloud rising and thinning, and, finally, dissipating in the updraft.

"‘It was the silence," says Doris, "that made me realize just how alone I actually was, when Sister Pefley disappeared over that slope. I said to myself, out loud, 'Jackson, you must be out of your tree!'"' "That did it. I hurried back to the site and set up the rest of my camp. Keeping busy is the essence of survival. First, I gathered some big hard rocks and built me a keyhole fireplace, as close to my lean-to as I dared. I established my woodpile nearby. I chose that dry wash for my camp because a small, clear spring bubbles through some rocks a few feet away. That first morning I ate watercress and elderberries for breakfast while I finished my camp. That young ranger, Tom Mickelson, came about one o'clock. He told me the wind had shifted, and a forest fire was burning between me and town, and what to do if the wind shifted again my way. Good thing I planned to stay."

Besides her sleeping bag and ground sheet, Doris had with her a small folding shovel, a canteen, and a mess kit that served as a cooking vessel. A hunting knife, a compass, flashlight, a hatchet, and a Colt 22 automatic pistol fit snugly in slots on her belt. A small first-aid kit and a survival kit she kept in her jacket pockets. The latter contained aspirin, band aids, a metal mirror for signaling, sun blinders, fishing line and hooks, a ball of stout twine, needle and thread, water purification tablets, Lady on Survival matches, and four beef cubes, which she brought home intact.

In addition to her survival manual, she had two books on western plants and a Book of Mormon. DD cris spent most of her daylight hours gathering edible vegetation. Leaves of pepper and Clethra bush (white alder), wild rye grass, and pine needles supplied her with greens. She ate gooseberries, elderberries, and service berries for desserts. Yarrow root has to be cooked. Boiled, Doris thought it not unlike hemp rope, and about as easily swallowed. So she pounded it to pulp between two rocks, mixed it with water to the consistency of wallpaper paste. Fried, it tasted like wallpaper paste. Spiced with wild onion, she called it pasta and ate every crumb.

Did she like it? "If you live to eat," Doris advises, "don't go on survival. I intended coming home as healthy as I started out. I ate to live."

She boiled dandelions and mallow. Made into soup, pond scum and green algae supplied her a constant source of protein. Broths from mint, sage, and rose hips furnished vitamin C and minerals. She ate violet plants and sego bulbs raw. The only shooting she did brought down cones from the pinons. Squirrels beat her to the nuts that fell, naturally. She made pit and string snares to catch small game.

Poisonous plants grow in Dog Valley in the same ratio, perhaps, as elsewhere. Doris quotes a handy little jingle: "Leaves three, let be; Berries white, take flight." 575 August 1968

It covers poison oak, ivy, and sumac. She found the pulse test completely reliable.

"I have never been menaced by anything in nature at any time during my camp-outs except mosquitos. That first time, I didn't catch any game in my snares, and I couldn't bear to shoot the squirrels, rabbits, chipmunks, or deer I saw. I liked their company too well. Besides, what would I do with a whole deer?" Doris can be justly proud of her record.

Since her week in the Sierra Nevadas, she has led groups of girls on both summer and winter camp-outs and survival trips into the Wasatch Mountains east of Provo. In the summer they depend on vegetation, but Doris shoots enough small game to give everybody a hot meat stew at least once a day on winter survival.

In evaluating her experiences, Doris is enthusiastic. "I believe everyone ought to learn enough survival technique to keep himself alive for a few days in emergency. Self-control makes the difference between life and death in the wilds. Panic kills more people than exposure, snake bite, or hunger combined. My fifth day in camp, three members of a jeep rescue patrol carried a hunter out of the Sierra Nevadas in a straight jacket. He had been lost two days in the same area I was in. He had matches, a hunting knife, shells for his gun, but he panicked and collapsed.

Advice? Don't lose your self-control. Keep busy, keep calm, keep your wits. I read The Book of Mormon, and whittled me a knife, fork, and spoon, built a table, found all my food, and kept my camp clean. When young Mickelson came by the next Monday when Sister Pefley came for me, he couldn't tell I had ever been there. He invited me back. That kind of tidying-up takes time. But it's worth it. I love nature, the outdoors, and I'll never do anything to deface it."

COLORS

Pinks adorn-the August mornings
Pinks to scale rare magic heights;
Pinks, when purple twilight enters
And the days become the nights.

Gauguin founded them on canvas
In far-off Tahiti's isle,
See the garden-borders flourish—
Pale and flame petunias smile.

Here is unity in color,
Sense what splendor tills the eye;
Here perfection's screen unfolding
Underneath a florid sky.

Beulah Huish Sadleir

576

Time was always running away from Molly Van Hardin. Life in the Steven Van Hardin household was a continual rush and race. Molly was always awake and waiting for the alarm to ring in the mornings; she would prepare breakfast and Little Sue's bottle; pack lunches; drive Steve to his office; and drop Stevie, eleven, and Meg, almost eight, off at school. Molly always took Little Sue (who had been born three months ago, just before Steve's father died) on her daily errands. Somehow, she felt more contented with the little tyke beside her, although Steve's mother, who lived through the block on Clover Street, would gladly care for her at any time. She always picked the children up at three-thirty for swimming lessons or dancing lessons—There

Time Rosa Lee Lloyd was the rush of dinner, dishes, and rehearsals, or making costumes, or performances in the ward. This morning, in mid-October, she flicked a wisp of reddish brown hair from in front of her eyes when she turned the car down the highway and headed for the Benjamin Franklin school. She knew she must look like a witch with her hair flying wild, but this afternoon she was stealing time to go to Paula's Beauty Salon for a shampoo set, then to Redwood's for a fitting on her new white formal for the company party tonight. Steve's mother was coming to take care of the children and her friend Betty was taking Little Sue while Molly had her hair done. Steve's mother, she repeated 577 August 1968 with a guilty pang as she sped past Clover Street. They should see her more often. Here it was the middle of October and she hadn't had a free day to spend with them for weeks! Molly had meant to take the children to the canyons to see the autumn leaves in all their gold and crimson glory before they turned into brittle brown curls, but there was always something that kept Steve and Molly on the go. Molly was very fond of Steve's mother, Anna Bell Van Hardin, who had come as a young bride from Holland to America fifty years ago. The children lovingly called her Tinkle Bell, as Steve's father had taught them to do. It was such an appropriate name for the bright-eyed, pretty little woman who had reared three daughters and one son and helped her husband in his real estate business so there would be enough money to send them all to college. While three daughters had married and moved away from Haysville, but Steve had returned after college to take care of the business. "Mother and Dad need me nearby," he had told Molly, before they were married, and she had agreed. "It's mine!" Stevie now yelled from the back seat. "The blue basket's mine!" Molly had to stop the car and settle the argument. The chocolate cupcake that Stevie liked was in the blue basket, and the vanilla cupcake in the yellow basket. That settled the argument, so she sped on to school, dropped them off, and headed back to the highway. Now to get home, put a load in the washing machine, make the beds, vacuum and dust, and make a noodle casserole for the children's dinner. By one-thirty Molly was back in her car, driving down the highway toward Paula's Beauty Salon. Once there, she promised herself, she would relax while Paula shampooed and set her flyaway hair. Maybe she would even have a golden rinse to bring out the highlights. She would bask in the rhythmic hum of the hair dryer while her nails were being manicured. Oh, luxury, she thought with a little sigh. A couple of hours to spend on herself was pure joy for Molly. She didn't have a chance very often, but tonight was a big night for Steve. She must look as beautiful as possible for him. She wanted him to be proud of her. She glanced at her wrist watch, and at the same time slowed the car for the crossing at Clover Street. It was a heavenly day, she thought, drinking in the beauty of the blue sky and the crimson hills surrounding the valley. It was a day for walking in the canyons, feasting your eyes on the gorgeous colors, feeling the branches of maple leaves in your arms, resting your cheek against their scarlet loveliness. It had been such a day, she remembered, that Steve's mother told about when she and Steve's father were young. It had been the beauty of the autumn hills that convinced them, fifty years ago, that this was the valley where they should build their home. The hills had been an symbol to them, and every autumn they had gone to the canyon for a long afternoon. The hills, in the autumn, were a touch of glory in Tinkle Bell's life. "Oh, Tinkle Bell," Molly repeated, feeling a sudden urge to see her. The light changed to green and she started the car, but instead of going straight ahead, she turned down Clover Street. Sometimes, she thought, we don't know why we do things on the spur of the moment, but she did not question the urge to go to Steve's mother. On a sudden impulse, she decided to give up her beauty appointment and take Tinkle Bell to the canyon. Cold reason argued she could do it tomorrow, there was not time today, but her heart said no, she must do it today. She would cancel the beauty appointment. "Anybody home?" Molly called out gaily as she rang the bell and gave her familiar knock on the front door of the old white house. "She isn't home," young Mrs. Brennan called from her front yard. "She left an hour ago for uptown. Took the bus. She said she was going to that new Dr. Blaymier everyone is talking about. Then she was going to shop before she went to your house to tend the children." Dr. Blaymier, Molly repeated to herself, with a little shock! He was an eye surgeon, and Tinkle Bell hadn't even mentioned that she was going to him! "Thank you, Mrs. Brennan," she said as she got back in her car. Twenty minutes later, she walked into Dr. Blaymier's crowded office in the new medical building on Harvard Street. Tinkle Bell was sitting near the window awaiting her turn. She had pulled the drape to one side and was gazing out across the busy street to the hills in the distance. There was yearning in every gesture of her frail body, but there was courage, too, and determination in the lift of her chin. "Tinkle Bell," Molly murmured as she hurried to her side, "Why didn't you tell us you were coming here? I would have come with you. Gladly. What is it, dear? Tell me." "Molly...." Tinkle Bell touched her hand. "Of course you would. But I know how busy you are. I have had four children, Molly. So many things to do. There isn't enough time." "But there must always be time for you, Tinkle Bell," Molly answered. "Mrs. Van Hardin!" the reception nurse called from her desk. "You may go in now." Molly waited until Tinkle Bell disappeared into Dr. Blaymier's private office, then she approached the reception desk. "I am Mrs. Van Hardin, Jr.," she explained. "I didn't know until a few moments ago that our Mother's eyes needed attention. Will you explain her condition to me, please." The nurse shook her head. "I am sorry, but you will have to ask Dr. Blaymier," she answered kindly, noticing Molly's concern. "This is her third visit in two weeks. I think her operation is scheduled for next Wednesday. Do talk to Dr. Blaymier." Molly sank down on a chair. 579 August 1968 Operation! She repeated to herself. Third visit in two weeks. Oh, Heavenly Father, forgive us.

Maybe the first visit was on that morning when Tinkle Bell had called to ask Molly if she had time to have luncheon uptown with her, and Molly had explained that the children were having a dance rehearsal. Could they go some other day? She had questioned casually.

Molly walked to the window, but she could hardly see the autumn hills through the sudden tears that clouded her eyes. This is what we do, she told herself. We chase madly through our busy, workaday world, forgetting the ones we love so dearly, taking them for granted, assuming they are all right because they don't want to worry us.

Mechanically, she used the telephone to cancel her beauty appointment, then she called Steve's office. He wasn't in, so she gave his secretary the message that she was with his mother. He was to send someone to school at three-thirty to pick up the children because she and Tinkle Bell were going to the canyon to see the autumn leaves. She would explain everything later.

Sounds crazy, she thought, as she hung up the receiver. But an hour later, standing beneath the branches of a golden red maple tree, she knew it was the wisest thing she had ever done.

"Look at them, Molly! Just look at them!" Tinkle Bell exclaimed. "Oh, Molly, this means the world of beauty to me. I wanted to come here so much before the operation. I can take this picture with me when my 580 eye is operated on and afterwards when it is covered, I will still see the beauty of my hills. Thank you, Molly, for bringing me here."

Molly could not answer for the tightness in her throat. The leaves were falling and the ground was covered with a thick carpet of red and gold. She led the way to an old tree stump, and they sat down side by side.

"It's like fairyland," Molly murmured, leaning back dreamily against the branches of a tree. "Oh, Tinkle Bell, we should do things like this more often. But we get so caught up in the business of living. We don't take time to bask in the loveliness our Heavenly Father has given to us."

Tinkle Bell sat with her hands folded together and her eyes lifted as though holding on to each precious moment.

"I know," she said softly. "I know. When my children were little, life seemed to stretch out before me in a never-ending hubbub of duties for them and my husband. But Steven always insisted that we take time to come up here to this very spot. He said it had a touch of heaven and was balm for our souls.

Molly, it was a divine prompting that sent you to me today."

"Think so, too, Tinkle Bell. Even though I have been extra busy today—and the party tonight."

"The party!" Tinkle Bell sat upright. "I'll bet you were going to have your hair done!"

"That's right!" Molly laughed, gaily, stretching her arms high above her head.

"But I wouldn't change this moment here for all the beauty salons in the world! " Sgt a cantante No shampoo. No manicure. No fitting on my new white dress. But I don't care one bit, Tinkle Bell. Steve will just have to take me without my glamor."

Tinkle Bell leaned toward Molly to see her better in the fading light of afternoon. Little twigs had tangled in Molly's hair, and a stray lock bounced crazily over her forehead. She looked like a little girl on a picnic.

"Glamor," Tinkle Bell repeated with that tender, wise look she always had when she spoke to the children, "I guess I don't know much about glamor, Molly. But if you mean, will my Steve appreciate those natural red glints in your hair when I get through brushing it for you, and will he like the way your white dress will fit you when I get through stitching it, well—all I can say is that he will, Molly. He will."

She got carefully to her feet.

They had barely reached the car when the first clap of thunder roared through the canyon.

"We'll have to hurry!" Molly shouted as she ran to open the car door. "Look at those clouds. There will be a big storm!"

Tinkle Bell stood a moment looking wistfully at the hillsides again. She is taking it with her, Molly thought, gratefully. And so was Molly. No matter how busy her world became, she would always be glad she had taken this moment out of time, to dream awhile, to linger in thought with Steve's mother before the winter winds whipped the trees until their crimson glory was only a memory.

Yes, she thought, as lightning streaked the sky and thunder answered with a savage roar, you have to take the golden moments even when there doesn't seem to be time for them. You do, she thought, as her heart lifted and sang, if you like to share happiness with those you love.

581

582 Eunice P. Ravsten

"Recalling the past and looking forward to future progression, our fancy may follow the winds."

The remark sent a ripple of good humor over the group surrounding the Relief Society quilt, and as busy needles left dainty trails across the bright surface, the women fell to reminiscing and anticipating.

Great-great-grandfather's covered wagon had been drawn by a yoke of oxen; great-grandfather hitched prancing equines to a sleek surrey; grandfather entered the age of automation; and today's motor-traffic systems grow increasingly elaborate. Air travel is common; space is being explored, and with each great ship that launches into the sea of sky, men's aspirations follow.

The ancient prophet declared: The chanots shall rage in the streets, they shall justle one against another in the broad ways: they shall seem like torches, they shall run like the lightnings. (Nahum 2:4.)

Isaiah asked: "Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows?" (Isaiah 60:8.)

Past and future, memories and dreams are deeded in the present.

The urge is upward and onward.

The progression of mankind, the children of God, is glorious to contemplate. Men are inspired to become better than they are. As expressed in the thoughts of Emerson, it is a joyful experience which gives a rewarding sense of progression to look always upward to the stars and their vast, eternal significance.

Ramona W. Cannon

Frances Grant Bennett, daughter of former President Heber J. Grant of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and wife of Senator Wallace F. Bennett of Utah, is author of Glimpses of a Mormon Family (Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City). In this warm and human biography, Mrs. Bennett relates the story of the home life of the Grant family, and the equally interesting account of her husband's family—the Bennetts, well known in the annals of Church and State. A most rewarding feature of the book is the inclusion of many precepts and much wisdom from the words and writings of President Grant.

Mrs.

Elizabeth Bodine, seventy years old, from Velva, North Dakota, was chosen American Mother of the Year for 1968 in New York City last May. She is the successful Polish-born mother of eighteen children and a farm wife. She believes that children need tasks to occupy them and teach them responsibility.

Mrs. Elsie K. Smith Farnsworth, Beaver, Utah, was chosen Utah Mother of the Year for her "outstanding wisdom and integrity in rearing her family of seven children." "Love and mutual respect dominated our home," Mrs. Farnsworth said in her acceptance speech in the Assembly Hall on Temple Square.

Mrs. James A. Kartchner, St. David, Arizona, a Latter-day Saint, was chosen Arizona Mother of the Year. She is the wife of the Superintendent of the St. David Schools and mother of ten children. Four of the sons are physicians.

Mrs. Dorothy Johnson Bacon, a Latter-day Saint of Hollywood, California, represented her State as Mother of the Year. She is the wife of a doctor and the mother of four children.

Mrs. Ora Pate Stewart, Latter-day Saint author, composer, and lecturer, mother of seven children, was runner-up to Mrs. Bacon for the California award.

Leah Evans, a dedicated Relief Society worker, was named Washington State Merit Mother, first runner-up to the Washington State Mother of the Year. She is mother of four children.

Vanessa and Lynn Redgrave are the daughters of Sir Michael and Lady Redgrave, both distinguished actors who have been married happily for thirty-three years. These sisters and brother Corwin are likewise top-rank actors, and the Redgraves are known as the Royal Family of the Theater in Britain.

Franca Falucci, Italian professor of philosophy at the Liceo Classico in Rome, is on the executive board of the Christian Democratic party and president of the women's movement of that party in Italy. On a recent visit to Salt Lake City, Miss Falucci was particularly impressed with the activities of Welfare Square and with the achievements of the Genealogical Society.

583
Volume 55
August 1968
Number 8

a Belle S. Spafford, President
Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer
Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Florence J. Madsen
Leone G. Layton
Blanche B. Stoddard
Aleine M. Young
Alberta H. Christensen
Mildred B. Eyring
Edith P. Backman
Winniefred S. Manwaring
Elna P. Haymond
Mary R. Young
Afton W. Hunt
Elsa T. Peterson
Fanny S. Kienitz
Elizabeth B. Winters
Jennie R. Scott
Alice L. Wilkinson
Trene W. Buehner
Irene C. Lloyd
Hazel S. Love

584
Fawn H. Sharp
Celestia J. Taylor
Anne R. Gledhill
Belva B. Ashton
Zola J. McGhie
Oa J. Cannon
Lila B Walch
Lenore C. Gundersen
Marjorie C. Pingree
Darlene C. Dedekind
Edythe K. Watson
Ellen N. Barnes
Kathryn S. Gilbert
Verda F. Burton
Myrtle R. Olson
Alice C. Smith
Lucile P. Peterson
Elaine B. Curtis
Zelma R. West
Leanor J. Brown
Reba C. Aldous

EDITORIAL

"Obedience is better than sacrifice." Obedience is doing as directed. Obedience is heaven's first law. Obedience is basic to law and order.

In a Latter-day Saint home, the virtues of obedience are taught from childhood. To see a child or a teen-ager obey his parents' admonitions is a source of gratification and thankfulness to those responsible for the child's welfare.

One may view obedience as doing; however, in addition to performing, there is an inner feeling of obedience one may or may not experience as she outwardly complies. The action and spirit may be identical—both may be obedient or the outward obedience may mask a rebellion within. A child may obediently go to bed while hiding his resentment that his brother does not have to go first.

Is outward obedience alone counted as obedience, or must the doing and motivation both be in a spirit of obedience to be counted as obedience? The Lord has said "For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." (1 Samuel 16:7.)

Obedience at Depth

When Solomon prayed for an understanding heart from the Lord, he was certainly not being satisfied with outward observances only. He also wanted to have the wisdom to search out motives.

As a child grows older, it becomes increasingly desirable for mothers to look below the outward compliance and seek to understand the feelings of a young person. If there is not obedience on both the action and the spiritual planes, the young may resolve silently, "I'll do this while I'm home, but I'm certainly not going to do it after I'm on my own." Resentment may smolder and build up to an explosion when parental restraint is removed, if inner obedience does not accompany the obedient action.

As life progresses, those who have directed and guided one leave this life, and one is left to direct oneself in harmony with eternal laws. "Charity never faileth" stands out as a great beacon to draw all within the warming light of love and to render obedience to it.

One may question one's own motives. "As I serve that sick sister, is the obedience I am giving merely an outward show or am I obedient with a willing, loving spirit?" This is a question which may plague one. "Am I making my Church contributions because I am grateful for the opportunity of contributing to the growth of the Church, or am I resentful and think the bishop has asked me to give more than my share?" also may trouble the giver.

One needs to search her soul and struggle to make obedience an inward joy and not an outward performance only.

In the Passover chamber the Savior promised peace, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you." (John 14:27.)

Obedience both outward and inward unite the soul in peace. Paul was told by the Savior "... It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks." (Acts 9:5.) His soul was not at peace with itself as he persecuted the Christians and obeyed the Pharisaic law; but, once he was obedient to the Savior and true to his teachings, he found that peace that passeth understanding, even as any woman may find it today through full obedience to gospel principles, both in performance and conviction.

M. C. S.

585

Notes to the Field
The Relief Society Annual General Conference
The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3, 1968. The general session will be held on Wednesday, October 2, from 2 to 4 P.M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square.

It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited.

Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, October 2, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, October 3, is limited to stake board members and mission district officers.

A reception to which stake board members and mission district officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 2, from 7 to 10 P.M. In the Relief Society Building.

Teaching Aid Packet for Spiritual Living Lessons

A teaching aid packet has been prepared for use with the 1968-69 spiritual living lessons. It is available, on order, from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $1.25, postpaid regular mail. Those desiring the teaching aid packet to be sent via air mail should include the cost for air mail, for 12 ounces.

Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet

Out of the Best Books, Volume 4: The World Around Us, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, for use with the cultural refinement lessons for 1968-69, is available from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and at all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $2.60, postpaid regular mail. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges where air mail service is desired.

A teaching aid packet is available for the cultural refinement class leaders. It will contain five full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces (printed in the June and September 1968 color sections of the Magazines) to be used with cultural refinement lessons 2, 4, 5, and 6, as designated. It will also contain a 12" 33⅓ rpm record of the musical selections to be used with cultural refinement lessons 1, 3, 5, and 7. The kit is available from the Publication Sales Department of Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601, and Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and all other Deseret Book Company outlets, at a cost of $3.50 postpaid. Overseas orders should be sent by international money order, plus air mail charges.

SEA SNOW

Tonight, Reflections of a tropical moon Transfigured the tranquil harbor Into a snow-laden meadow; And, for an instant, | was home.
—Carol Poelman Feltch

586 & Mary Vogel Cameron 2 Resigns From Relief Society General Board

General Board members and sisters throughout the Church regret the resignation of Mary Vogel Cameron from the General Board, as of May 15, 1968. She had served since January 6, 1957. During this time she rendered devoted service to Relief Society. She has capably served on many committees, including the Relief Society Conference, spiritual living, homemaking meeting, secretary-treasurer, poetry contest, short story contest, and many others. At the time of her resignation, she was a member of the visiting teacher message committee. In addition, she has fulfilled many speaking engagements at conferences both at home and abroad. She is an eloquent and sincere speaker, and her spirituality has enriched many lives.

Sister Cameron came to the General Board after holding many executive positions in the auxiliaries of the Church. For nineteen years, she shared her testimony of the gospel as a guide on Temple Square. The united love of the board goes with Sister Cameron. Her devotion to Relief Society will stand as a memorial to the faithful service she has rendered.

On behalf of Relief Society members everywhere, love and appreciation are extended to Sister Cameron. May she find much happiness in her future endeavors, and may Relief Society continue to be a joy and a fulfillment to her.

SUN IN THE EAST

As | raise my eyes this morning, Contemplating in all its splendor The sun in the east, My heart fills with gratitude Towards my Creator.

And all of God's children through the world, My eyes lower and | see in my hands, What is the Sun for Latter-day Saint women? — Maria C. De Illescas Guatemala City, Guatemala

587 = When supper was over, Ellie sent Jase to the porch to relax and read the newspaper while she washed the dishes. He had never cared much for housework, and tonight he was especially tired after helping John Willey in the hayfield all day.

"We're not as young as we used to be," she mused to herself, as she cleared the table. In the mirror above the stove, she studied her reflection and sighed— wrinkles and sag lines and graying hair; but she wasn't plagued with middle-age spread, and she seldom had a sick day, so what more could one expect at sixty-three? Jase was sixty-seven, and he still thought he could work as hard as he had done twenty years ago. Of course he moved a little more slowly, but he was slim as he had ever been and just as straight and tall. He always laughed at the idea of getting old, and secretly Ellie was proud that he felt that way because it helped her to feel the same.

"As long as you have a zest for living, you'll never be old," Jase often told her, "so you and I are just a couple of kids, Ellie, my girl." Smiling reflectively, Ellie put the dishes in the sink and turned her eyes to the window beyond which lay the cool meadow, rich green in the early June twilight. June was always a favorite month, when summer returned in all of its fresh loveliness, bringing a chorus of birds, the call of crystal streams, and vacationing grandchildren to fill the old house with their young laughter.

Ellie had hoped to have the kitchen remodeled before they came this summer. She had visualized how surprised they would all be when they came in and found Grandma's old-fashioned kitchen gleaming with new birch cabinets, formica drainboards, and a stainless steel sink and stove. There would be a new refrigerator that would never need defrosting. The linoleum, that needed weekly waxing, would be replaced with carpeting. Jase and she had made all the plans for it during the stormy, winter days. They had poured over catalogues and lumber-yard bulletins, everything had been figured and estimated. All they had to do now was to wait for Luke Crockett, who remodeled for everybody, to get around to them. He had promised to begin their work in April, but then he had had the misfortune to break a leg, so that had meant waiting, again.

Jase had tried to console her. "You've waited for twenty years, Ellie, so a few more months won't be too bad, will they?" Yes, she had waited for a long time. The kitchen money, as they had come to call any funds that were reserved for repairs in the home, had a way of being used for so many other things over the years, and Jase was not one to go in debt. He had always wanted to wait for anything new until they could pay for it. Well they had the kitchen money now, and it wasn't needed for anything else, thank goodness.

Ellie had hoped that Luke would begin on her kitchen by the forepart of June, but he wanted to go fishing for a week or two, so he wouldn't promise Kitchen Money to come until after the first of July.

She was keenly disappointed. The boys, two or three, if not all four, always came home for a family reunion on Jase's birthday, which was the eighteenth of June, and she had hoped to surprise them with the new kitchen. "Don't fret about it, honey," Jase could always oil the troubled waters, "the surprise will be just as good next year." Sisnes finished, Ellie took her knitting and went to the porch to join Jase. The sun, a great, blazing ball against the western horizon, colored the stratus clouds with a golden glow. Peace was like a benediction around them, as Jase looked up from his paper to smile at her. "Ours is a summer haven," he announced. Passing a section of the paper to her, he picked up a small pamphlet and a map from the wicker table. Ellie grinned. "Where are we going next summer?" she asked. Jase looked a little sheepish; she could read him like a book, but it didn't matter. "How about Hawaii?" he challenged. "I've always wanted to go there, and I really think we could make it. Do you know how cheaply you can fly these days? Look!" He brought the pamphlet to show her, eager as a schoolboy, but the sudden buzzing of the telephone interrupted. Assuring him that she would see his plans on return, Ellie went into the house to answer it. "Hello, Mother," the voice through the phone was strong and masculine, "how are you?" "Matt!" she cried. "How are you? Is anything wrong?" 589 August 1968 "No," he laughed, "of course not. I just called to tell you we're coming home for Dad's birthday." "Oh, Matt, that's wonderful. When will you come?" "We're leaving in the morning, Mom, and we plan to bring Carole's mother with us. She hasn't been West for years, and she's so lonesome without Mr. Bryson. Do you think you'll have room for us all?" "Of course we will, Matt, there are all of the upstairs bedrooms and the camper, too. Leslie has extra room if we need it. You're all fine? Little Mary and Lisa? I'll bet they've grown since we saw them." "They really have. How about Dad, how is he?" "Fine. He's been helping John Willey in the hay all day, thinks he's about twenty years old." Matt laughed. "Well, maybe he is. Let me say hello to him." When Jase returned from talking to Matt, he was all smiles. "Say, won't that be great having them come?" he exclaimed. "How long has it been since they were here?" "Let's see— they were here when Mary was a year old. She's three now— summer before last." "That's right— seems longer, though." Elle nodded. "But you know, Jase, I'd really be happy about them coming if the kitchen were done. I'm ashamed of it like it is. If it were just Matt and Carole, I wouldn't mind, but Carole's mother—that's something again. Her folks have always had money. Mrs. Bryson is used to the best." "Now— now, Ellie, Matt knows we're just poor farm folks, and Carole knows it too. If Mrs. Bryson can't put up with what we have to offer, they can take her to a hotel." "Oh, Jase, you men folks don't know what you're talking about." There was aggravation in Ellie's voice. "Every woman likes a nice home." "Sure they do." Jase was so subdued that Ellie was instantly sorry. "I didn't mean it that way," she apologized. "I've always loved my home, you know that, and I know I'm going to have the new kitchen. I just wish it were done, that's all." "I do too, honey, and I suppose we could have had it long ago, if we hadn't used the money for so many other things. But I guess the things we used it for were more important, don't you think so?" Sie agreed, and her thoughts turned reflectively to the years gone by. The kitchen money had been used for Leslie and the boys— for college educations and missions—a loan to Bill to buy a part interest in the local pharmacy; for Mark, a down payment on his home. And the very first kitchen money had been used to buy a camper for a summer vacation! Jase, reading her thoughts, nodded and smiled. "And it always paid dividends, Ellie, my girl, always paid dividends." Ellie knew he was right, but sometimes it had been hard not to become discouraged with the endless postponement of things she needed or wanted. And many times since they had come to the farm, twenty-seven years ago, she had wished that they had never seen it. Fruit farming was a gamble. There had been years— more than two or three— when the peach trees, a sea of delicate beauty in their pink blossoming, had been smitten by killing frost that left only brown, barren branches. During those lean years, much as he hated debt, Jase had had to borrow money to keep going. Yet, as he had pointed out, more than once, they hadn't done too badly. Ellie had been as willing as Jase to make do, to go without, but now— At long last, she would have her new kitchen. If only it could have been done before Carole's mother came. Why couldn't Luke go fishing in July? When Leslie and Bill came on Tuesday evening to make plans for the reunion, Ellie talked about Mrs. Bryson's coming. "I don't know why you're so worried, Mother," Leslie told her. "Carole has never put on airs, and I have a feeling that her mother will be as sweet and gracious as Carole is." Matt and his family arrived on Thursday afternoon, and Mrs. Bryson, a gray-haired, wiry little woman, well in her sixties but seeming much younger, greeted Ellie and Jase with such warm naturalness that all of Ellie's worries vanished. After helping Carole with the little girls, Mrs. Bryson spent time visiting with Ellie and Jase. She was interested in farm prices and cattle and summer vacations. When it was time to prepare supper, she peeled the potatoes and made a green salad. It seemed to Ellie that she had known Mrs. Bryson all of her life, and to Jase she described as "a kindred spirit." Kitchen Money On Friday afternoon, Bob's family came from Denver, followed by the Tom Claytons and their children. Saturday morning brought Mark and Anne and their boys from Portland. How would you like to have us for always?" young Mark asked Ellie, as he reached for a third sugar-cookie. "She would take a green willow to you, as she used to to us," his father laughed. "Remember the time, Matt, when you and I." He turned to his brothers, and the four of them, with Leslie, who had been there since early morning, began reliving the bygone days when they were all home together. Ellie loved hearing them, and Jase glowed with pride. It was good having them all together again, and their wonderful children, filling the house with warmth and laughter. By noon, the tables were all.

Set up in the orchard, and they sat down to a home-cooked banquet, with platters of fried chicken, fresh garden vegetables, bread, hot from the oven, and freezers of homemade ice cream. "What a good time we all have together," Tom, who was oldest, looked over the long tables, and raised his glass of grape juice. "Let's drink a toast to Mother and Dad," he suggested, "the best parents in the world." "Speech, Grandpa, speech," Julie Anne cried, and the rest joined in. Jase rose slowly, looking over the group around him with misty eyes. "You don't know how good it is to have you all here," he said, 591 with a kind of catch in his voice. "It means more to Mama and me than you can know, and we think you're the best children and grandchildren in the whole world." "Hey, Grandpa, can we boys stay?" Sammy wanted to know. 592 "That's fine with us," Jase told him, "if you don't mind getting in on the remodeling, cause your Grandma and I are going to have the old kitchen modernized this very week." "We sure had lots of good times in that old kitchen," Bob announced, "remember the candy pulls on winter nights." Leslie laughed. "And I remember you getting taffy from your heels to your head." "Remember the time I opened Dad's prize root beer, and it fizzed up and went all over the ceiling?" Mark exclaimed. "Yah, Mom made us help wallpaper the ceiling!" "Remember those cheese sandwiches you used to make for picnics, Leslie?" "Mom's kitchen will always hold some of my dearest memories when I think of the happy times we've had around that old table together." "Remember the winter mornings coming down to corn-meal mush bubbling in the kettle, and homemade sausage." And so they remembered—and it was a good day—a perfect day. Then the Sabbath came and they all went to church, and Jase and Ellie were proud to have them there. But too soon, the weekend was over and they had to get back to their homes and work. Matt and his family were staying until Tuesday morning, and then they would go on to California. Mark's three boys would stay for a week. After a supper of sandwiches and milk, Jase and Matt and the boys went out to the porch while Carole took the little girls up to bed and Ellie and Mrs. Bryson cleared up the dishes. "It's been just wonderful here with you," Mrs. Bryson told Ellie. "I think I've been a little jealous of you having all of your family here together. And your husband is such a fine man. I visited with him for awhile the other night. He reminds me of my Cal, especially when he told me about the trip he wanted to take." There was a wistful note in her voice. "Cal was like that, too. I've missed him so much, and looking back I wish we had done more things together. 'He had always wanted to spend a summer in the Canadian Rockies—fishing and that sort of thing. I'm not much of an outdoor girl, so it didn't sound very exciting to me, but I agreed to go the next summer. He wasn't here then." For a moment she couldn't speak, then, composure regained, she went on. "Mrs. Clayton, why don't you take the Hawaiian trip? You can always have the kitchen remodeled, you know." Long after she went to bed, Ellie lay awake pondering over the things Mrs. Bryson had said. I guess we get our values mixed up sometimes, she thought, and Kitchen Money maybe we attach too much importance to some things. Maybe having the kitchen done over isn't the most important thing this year, either. Could it be that Mrs. Bryson is right? On Tuesday evening, when the supper dishes were done, and the boys had gone down to the creek to look for minnows, Ellie joined Jase on the porch to watch the night shadows that were stealing across the sky. On the table beside his chair were the travel folders and the well-thumbed maps. "Jase," she said quite suddenly, "shall we go to Hawaii this summer?" Jase looked up, startled, incredulous. "Ellie—what did you say?" "I said, shall we go to Hawaii this summer?" "But Ellie, you know we can't go. We're going to have that kitchen done at long last." "The kitchen," said Ellie, feeling light-hearted as a girl, "can wait another year." "Ellie!" His eyes glowed like stars in the darkness. "Ellie, look." He opened the maps. "Let me show you." Ellie smiled knowingly, and moved her chair over beside him.

La Very true; Need it too.
LOVE
Experts say that children must have Tender loving care. I, for one, think this is But some folks need reminding Every now and then,
That middle aged and old folks ~ �Ruth G. Rothe

yy, 593

To My Daughter: Jane Scott
Good Morning My Daughter:
Time has moved along and distance is between us.
' would like to hold you and tell how much I love you. I look at your picture and see my precious child grown up and moving in a world of adults. It fills my heart with joy that you have decided to remember the things that you were taught in the early days of your life, regarding prayer and knowing that you have a Heavenly Father, as well as an earthly one to call on in your time of need.
We can furnish the means by which you can live physically better and even -give a limited amount of advice and encouragement. But because we do not live close enough to your thoughts and feelings, you can turn to the one who knows your every thought and emotion.
You can gain strength to choose between good and evil and know that growth comes by this choice. Happiness is what we wish for you, but do you know the difference between happiness and joy? Do you seek and find that joy is wonderful, and yet hard to hold on to? Joy is what has been promised to us, and I do believe that we can gain more and longer times of joy by just being at peace with ourselves.
Do you have such moments, too?
Peace is a quietness within and acceptance of things as they are without fighting and struggling against what happens to us. Ceasing to fight does not mean that we give in to evil or wrong, but know things as they are and move around them.
It is like moving down a road and seeing a mud puddle. If you have considered what the mud will do to your new shoes or feet, then you will go around it or jump over it. You have acknowledged that the mud is there, but you have decided on how to meet it. So it is with so many of the temptations that we face in life.
Jesus taught us how to recognize many of these pitfalls, and it is up to us to recognize them and to pray for discernment of what to do about them.

Thus we find joy and happiness. Ah, how I have gone on, I know that you are wondering what Cory is doing. He is deep in school, all those things that intrigue him: music, band, electricity, and English. He is thinking of giving up his paper route as he has been asked to work for a couple of hours after school and Saturday. He has managed to buy all his school supplies and clothes. Isn't that something to be excited about? We are very proud of him. He is displaying such a growth and development for his age. Bless him. We are well and busy and love you all so much. Write when you can find the time and are anxious about home. Mother

595 The Cast-on Bootie Dorothy F. Condry

The new year had started out beautifully. Looking out my window Monday morning, while preparing to go to the office, I discovered a blanket of white had been neatly spread as I had slept. Since it was the middle of January, this wasn't exactly a surprise, and it certainly seemed more appropriate than yesterday's rain. As I headed for the car, my boots made neat tracks behind me. The air was brisk, so I quickened my pace. Whoosh! My left foot slipped in front, and my right foot buckled under me, as I went down. A sheet of ice was neatly hidden under the beguiling snow. The fur-lined boot cushioned my fall, but my leg immediately rebelled at the unaccustomed forty-five degree angle. After a trip to the hospital, I found myself encumbered with a hard, white, toeless boot, sporting a brightly-colored cover tied over my toes. The nurse had given me my choice from a box full of "toe caps" crocheted for them by an old lady, she had said. I had chosen one in various shades of pink. Pink is such a cheerful color, and my spirits needed a lift, as I contemplated being grounded for six weeks.

The next day as I lay staring at my disabled foot, it suddenly struck me. Instead of making bootees for my grandchildren, here I was wearing one—a "Cast-on Bootee!" After I had had a good chuckle over my little joke, I remembered the bag of leftover yarns from sweaters and afghans I had made through the years. A perfect way to use these up, I thought, as I hobbled over to the dresser and got out the crochet hook and yarns. I would make a bootee in every color of the rainbow and put on a different one every day in the week.

The old lady had used a very simple pattern which I found easy to follow. After making a chain of ten stitches, I went back over it with single crochet, and continued around and around, increasing one stitch at each end until I had finished nine rounds. Then I continued for another eight rows, increasing one stitch at each end of every other row. Midway between the ends, on the last round, I skipped two stitches in the previous row, The Cast-on Bootee made four chain stitches, for a loop, and continued to the end of the row.

At that point, I made a long chain of 100 stitches, then turned and started back, joining every fourth stitch until I got back to the bootee. Continuing around the top with single crochet, I made another long double chain at the other side. Then, working across the front edge and outlining the open space in the center front with single crochet stitches, I worked to the far side of the top, where I cut the yarn and worked the tail end back under to finish off.

Slipping the bootee over the toes on my right foot, I brought the long ties back behind the heel of the cast-on, around in front, looping one tie through the open center space, and made a bow on top of my foot. It really made quite an attractive bootee.

When I am gone...

MY FATHER'S WATCH

I opened the ornate dresser drawer
And, after many years, again I saw my father's gold, initialed watch,
Saw it with sudden, aching pain.
I saw his thoughtful brow as each night
He reached to wind the clock upon the wall,
Matching the hands with those upon his watch,
That moved in rhythm summer, spring, and fall.

Once more, I seemed to hear its ticking
Against my ear, held within his hand,
As firm and steady as the wheels that he
Showed to me though I did not understand.
The stem wound now the same as in the past,
The sound began as though long overdue,
Telling of time that shall go on and on,
(As he) and you.

Christie Lund Coles

597 Three Rules for Making Jam Ida Isaacson

Lately, two young housewives have told me about their experiences in making jam. They scorch the jam! This would never have occurred if they had followed three simple rules.
1. Make only one small batch of jam at one time.
2. Follow your recipe.
3. Stir the jam constantly, using a big spoon with a wooden or plastic handle.

A note or two: Do not talk on the phone when you are making jam! Do not linger at the door and talk! Stay by the stove!

When you put your shining jars of jam on the shelf, take pride in your accomplishment, and your family will be proud of you.

EXTRA SPECIAL PANCAKES Doris C. Kinsley

2 c. Grated raw potatoes
4 tbsp. Soya flour
1 c. Grated raw carrots
2 tbsp. Wheat germ
1 medium grated onion
1 tsp. Kelp
1 c. Grated apple
2 eggs unbeaten

Mix well and bake on well-oiled griddle until brown and crisp.
Serve with honey.

CLOSE NEIGHBORS

Their windows looked north into our own
Through our crooked apple tree
And there was room beside the fence
For hollyhocks to be.

Their children and ours would run and play
As back and forth they bounced, I
And we never worried at mealtime
If some guests came unannounced.

We watched for the smoke from their chimney
In the early morning light.
We knew when they made their bed-time retreat
In the quiet country night.

Melba S. Payne

598 MANY HOBBIES KEEP HER BUSY

Elsie Egan, South Sevier Stake, Monroe, Utah, is kept busy with many hobbies and talents. Her hobbies include writing histories, keeping records, and handwork. She has made many contributions to the Church through her musical talent. Her handwork achievements include 235 quilts which she has pieced, completing over 150 herself; knitting sixty sweaters for family and friends; bedspreads; afghans; handkerchief edges; doilies; and countless articles of clothing. She also does textile painting and embroidery work. She has instructed many young people on the organ, and taught several Relief Society sisters to direct singing.

Her musical contributions started when she was nine years old. She has acted as organist and chorister for Relief Society and other auxiliaries, and has directed several outstanding musical programs.

She has served as Relief Society president, and has been cultural refinement class leader and social relations class leader. Her seven children, and their children, of whom there are thirty, consider her a great blessing. She represented Monroe as a Utah State Mother of the Year nominee.

599 Rolls For Many Occasions BUTTER-HORN ROLLS
Roll dough (made from basic recipe) into a 10-inch circle, ½-inch thick. Brush with melted butter; cut, like pie, into twelve pieces. Roll each piece from wide end. Lay on a well-greased baking sheet, with tip of dough on underneath side. Let rise about 30 minutes in warm place. Bake approximately 20 minutes at 300°-350°.

CINNAMON BREAD
Shape dough (made from basic recipe) in 6x9 inch rectangular shape, 2-inch thick. Brush with melted butter. Mix 2 c. Sugar and 2 tsp. Cinnamon, and sprinkle over dough. Roll like a jelly roll, flatten ends and turn under, pinching in place. Place in well-greased 5x9-inch pan. Let rise until light, and bake at 350° until brown, as desired.

La OUR GREAT-GRANDMA
Great-grandmothers, we are told In many a tale and song, Just sit in rocking chairs and wait While old age comes along. But not our own great-grandma; Old age can't catch up with her. The temples' visits' daily totl She's always on the stir.
We love the dears in rocking chairs We know they're great-grandmothers. But we can't help our feeling glad That they belong to others. Our granny-great's fine as she is; There's nothing that we'd alter. We wouldn't even try to do A single thing to halt her. And when she visits, though we know She won't be with us long, We're' cheerfut wher we see her go She's somehow here, though gone.
She sets a pattern we can use So we won't rust away. To solve life's problems we will choose Like her, to work, and pray.

Rebecca J. Welker
a 601 Leavening
Annie C. Esplin

When it was my chore to go for the yeast, I preferred the twilight hours. It was peaceful and beautiful. I loved it.
Carrying the earthen pitcher containing sugar to exchange for yeast, I chose to go the long way around, following trails pertinent to a small girl's world of fantasy. They led through the wash, under a bridge, skirted a polliwog pond beneath the dripping flume; afforded a breathless moment to pause in the shade of a huge cottonwood stretching leafy arms far over the winding trail.
Climbing the bank, I slowly circled our ward hall, noting sweet williams with dainty pink flowers snuggled close to the foundation, and wild snapdragons blooming beside the back stoop. Crossing a wide plank to the opposite side, it was time to walk nicely through the gate and along a flagstone path leading to the "yeast lady's" porch.
There she sat in her rocker, knitting industriously—a sprightly little woman, always feigning surprise because I was there. With a cheery beckoning, she bade me come. As I followed into the semidarkness of her cool cellar, clean odors assailed me. She emptied the sugar into a container near a large crock filled with bubbling yeast. This she stirred, ladled my pitcher full, and admonished me to go straight home.
Often I left with some welcome offering—a ribbon, small remnants of calico for a rag doll dress, a cookie—always with a tangible bit of cheer.

Going home, aware of twitterings in leafy trees, where homing birds sought their nests and safety, I hurried along the path. Mama might be ready to mix the bread. She would cover the dough with a white cloth and place it in a cool room to rise overnight.
For breakfast, a treat was in store for us, delicious white biscuits spread with yellow home-churned butter, and a choice of molasses, honey, or grape jelly, to "top off on."

SWIFT SHADOWS
3 I see the shadows on the sunny hill,
Patterns that the drifting clouds have made.
They slide across each gentle rise and fill
The chasm's cup with pools of sudden shade.
They trace their path along the windy arc
That pours its freshness on the valley floor;
All this day the earth has borne a mark
For every buoyant thing the heavens wore.

Summer splashes all we see with light,
Then underlines this joy with blue and green,
Balancing the darks with tones more bright,
An ever glad, and ever changing scene.
A Lucille R. Perry

A 602 Chapter 5
Maureen Taggart, a librarian, goes to Britain to do genealogical research and look over an estate in Scotland to which she is joint heir with a cou.!). Bruce Taggart. Just before leaving, she meets Steve Madsen and is much attracted to him. On board she befriends Diane Curran, a fellow passenger.
At the Taggart home she meets Robert McPherson, an artist, who lives on the Taggart estate.

Sunday morning dawned a typical gray November day, but there was no fog, for which everyone was grateful. Sydney arrived in good time to accompany Diane to church, which gave Maureen an added cause for gratitude. She knew that Diane was very definitely interested in learning about the gospel and she knew, also, that it would be most helpful to have a sympathetic interest on the part of Sydney.
They all walked over to the red brick building on Nightingale Lane.
"This doesn't greatly resemble the usual church building," remarked Sydney.
"I imagine that it was built originally as a home," "Yes, I would rather suppose so," Maureeen agreed. "It is still used as a home for our missionaries. I've heard some talk of its being torn down and a new one built. The assembly hall is to our right here."
In the opening exercises, both Sydney and Diane joined in the singing and paid close attention, especially to the short talk given by two young members.
Afterwards, Sydney said, "I've noticed that your Church gives numerous opportunities for the young people to participate. I suppose 603 August 1968 that is what distinguishes it most from some other faiths."
"Well, somewhat," Maureen replied, "but what distinguishes our faith most is the fact that it is the true restored Church of Jesus Christ, and is not just another manmade faith. However, we do have vast and important programs for the youth."
"Yes, I've noticed. One set of young men played basketball in our town, and there was also a singing quartet at one time," "That is only a beginning," said Maureen.
"And, of course, the missionaries can't spend a great deal of time on these activities. They are encouraged to do only what will interest young people so that they can have the contacts to give them the gospel message."
Bruce invited two of the missionaries home for dinner, and both Maureen and Diane were pleased to see that Sydney was interested enough to ask some questions.
As soon as Maureen arrived in town on Monday, she went directly to the Art Gallery, hoping to buy the painting of the cottage. To her dismay, it was no longer there.
"Perhaps you will consider something else, Miss?" the attendant suggested.
"Tl look them over," agreed.

For a time she could not be satisfied with any of them, since she had so completely made up her mind to own the cottage. At length, however, she decided to take one of the castle in rather a misty atmosphere, with a vast field of heather in the foreground. She 604. She supposed that it was very much idealized. In fact, Robert McPherson had made that quite clear. But it was a very lovely painting, and she knew that she would enjoy having it in her own home.

She decided to go to the British Museum to work today, rather than return to the Public Records Office. For some undefinable reason, she felt that the latter would be too humdrum. She felt as if she couldn't settle down to the usual routine. She took a cab to the museum and asked to be shown to the rooms on family records. On the way, she fell in with a group of tourists being shown through the building, and decided to follow them.

She found herself presently in a large room where there were many important papers and documents in frames upon the walls. As she wandered about from one to another, she saw the order signed by Queen Elizabeth I for the execution of Essex, and other orders equally intriguing. It was all so fascinating that she could not settle down to do any research. This is my British heritage showing through, she decided. I really do have a deep feeling for this land and its history.

It was late afternoon before she left to return home. At the house, she found considerable excitement. Mrs. Murch had been to the bank with Julia and Mr. Edmunds, the solicitor, and they had learned that the account amounted to something over 3000 pounds. Maureen did some quick figuring and concluded that, at the current rate, it would be just under $10,000 in American money.

True, that was not much of a sum to restore a broken-down castle, but enough, probably, to put part of it into shape so that it would make an income. The problem would be to find out how much of that would go to the Taggarts for their care of Mrs. Murch during the past twenty-five years, and how much Bruce would be willing to accept if it were offered to him.

Maureen knew him to be scrupulously honest, and in addition, the family felt that they had nothing coming to them for giving her a home. It had actually been a labor of love and Christian neighborliness. For Mrs. Murch, she was not at all interested in obtaining any of the money for her own use.

"As long as I have this nice place and plenty of yarn for my afghans, I don't need another thing," she declared.

"How is she to go about getting the money?" Maureen asked.

"Evidently she has no passbook or any other proof," answered Julia. "They did take a sample of her handwriting." "I daresay it has changed rather a lot over the years."

Then they will have to find someone who knew her before the Blitz. There is a man who built a bake shop where the house used to be. She has been calling there every once in a while but, whether or not he knew her before is something we have to find out. There surely must be someone who would remember her from the old neighborhood.

"Yes, there surely must be," agreed Catherine. "It may be that we will have to advertise. I'm sure that Mr. Edmunds can come up with something. No doubt there have been many other cases such as this where people lost their homes and all their belongings in the war."

"No doubt," said Bruce. "But I question that many of them would have waited a quarter of a century to put in their claims."

"But we still want it done legally," said Kitty dreamily. "The court must decide how much is coming to us, and if you may pay it." You could have a covey of second cousins waiting in the shrubbery who would all come forth to put in claims.

"Well, if there are they have waited too long," declared Mrs. Murch. "Anyway, I never did care for my cousins as I remember."

"Guess there isn't too much chance that they will appear now," said Catherine. "However, I'm sure we must advertise in order to find people who can identify you, if for no other reason." 

At dinner time, Diane had not yet arrived from her work, and they decided to go ahead without her. When she had still not arrived by eight o'clock, Maureen put on her wraps to go and meet her. She had just reached the door when Diane came in and slumped down into a chair.

"What's the trouble besides working for twelve hours?" asked Kitty. "Did Mrs. Markham take off for Paris, or something?"

"It was something," answered Diane. "I only wish it were Paris. That might be more temporary. She has had a stroke."

"Oh, what a shame!" cried Catherine. "What happened?"

"She said that she didn't feel too well and would lie down while I got the mail out." "As usual," interrupted Kitty. "Yes, as usual. Anyway, she did lie down, and when the housekeeper went to call her to dinner she found her lying on the floor and unable to move. Of course we called a doctor and she was taken to the hospital. I have just come from there."

"And with no dinner," said Catherine. "Do come and eat. This has been most upsetting, I am sure." Diane merely nodded. She ate her lone meal in an abstracted mood.

Later Maureen said, "This could go on for a long time. That is, she could be helpless for months. What do you think will happen to your work?"

"It's hard to say," replied Diane. "She has such a good thing going there that it would be too bad to let it drop. And, of course, once we did let it go, there would be no way of getting it back again. I have done so much of the work by myself that I could actually handle it alone, at least with a bit of help. I am hoping that is what can be done. Anyway, I'll keep it going for a few days until we come to some sort of an understanding."

"Surely hope that you can," said Bruce. "It wouldn't be easy to find other work that would pay as well."

"Right."

I've complained about having to do practically everything but it may have been all for the best. I'm sure that other girls have quit, rather than do so much of the work. I couldn't quit, so here I am." Diane kept on as usual, and, sometime later, when Mrs. Markham was able to do so, arrangements were made whereby Diane took over the entire work at a substantial increase in her salary. "At this rate," she said to Maureen, "I shall be making money enough so that Sydney and I can be married before he finishes school, just as we had planned when I came over." "Would you like that?" asked Maureen. "Indeed, yes! More than anything else I can imagine. And, anyway, I would simply be following a family tradition. Both of my older sisters worked, at first, to help put their husbands through school. So many girls do, you know. It's quite the thing for them to receive their P.H.T.—Putting Hubby Through—at the same time he gets his degree." "Have you thought about where you would like to be married?" "Oh, at Nightingale Lane. Later on, I hope that we can go to the London Temple to be married. He says that he is willing to do whatever I want, but I hope that he will want it for his own sake and not just to please me." "Yes, it should be that way. No one should join the Church, or marry in the Church, simply to satisfy a partner, although it makes for much more harmony in marriage if both are agreed. That is true of any faith—not just ours." "I'm sure you are right," Diane nodded. Thanksgiving was merely a date on the calendar, since no one in England, except for a few Americans like themselves, celebrated the day. Even the missionaries were working as usual, with simply a festive dinner in the evening. The Christmas season would be different, however, and both of the American girls looked forward with a great deal of anticipation to celebrating a yuletide in England. "I hope that you won't be disappointed," said Julia. "We won't, for instance, be going out to cut our own yule log, as you have heard about in song and story. We shall have one, however. Mrs. Murch takes an ordinary log, just big enough for the fireplace, and trims it all up with cones, gilded chestnuts, and what have you. We treasure it for several days and then burn it in glory at the end of the holiday season." "But you do have a Christmas tree and carolers, don't you?" asked Diane. "Yes, that we do have. We shall even take you caroling on Christmas Eve." "It sounds enchanting," said Diane. "I'll practice up on 'God Rest Ye, Merry Gentlemen,' and make myself merry at the same time." Maureen had mailed Christmas cards to her friends at home the middle of November, and had If Spring Be Late puzzled long and hard over what she should send to Steve Madsen. It couldn't be a gift, of course, but she wanted very much to send something more than an ordinary Christmas card. She finally decided that it would be entirely appropriate to send a book, and bought one describing London that was lavishly illustrated with photos. Even after she had it wrapped and addressed, she was dubious about the mailing until one day Diane announced, "I'm tired of seeing that book on your dressing table and if it waits one more day it will be too late for Christmas, so I have taken it to the post office today, along with my other mail." "Well, I must admit that I am rather grateful to you for making up my mind," said Maureen. "Perhaps I could also help you out with your other admirer," Diane suggested. "Thank you, no. We have yet to prove that he is an admirer. And, even so, I doubt if I should greet him bearing gifts." "As you will," shrugged Diane. "I'm glad that I don't have to wrestle with any such qualms. I have an elegant leather brief case for Sydney, which should go to show my love and devotion and ample salary." As the season approached, activities in the family grew more absorbing with every passing day. Mrs. Murch ordered yarn from town until Maureen figured she must be knitting afghans for the entire countryside. She worked on the yule log until it was a thing of beauty. "It will be much too pretty to burn," Diane commented. "Why can't we just keep it as a decoration?" "Because then Mrs. Murch couldn't make another one next year, and that would make her sad," Kitty answered. Then she added suddenly, "I do hope that there is a huge fireplace in the castle, and that we can bring in an enormous yule log, just as they did in the olden days, and burn it for the entire twelve days of Christmas." "Especially if the fireplace is in one of the rooms where the wall has fallen out," commented Julia. "Then we could really make good use of a huge log." "There will be a fireplace in every room, of course," said Kitty with a shrug. "We shall simply choose a room where there are still four walls standing. Our only problem will be to find enough men to cut and bring in the yule log. Because, so far, we have no retainers." "We do not, indeed," said Julia emphatically. "We must include retainers among the host of other assets that we do not have and are not likely to have." "I suppose so," admitted Kitty with a sigh. "I shall have to find some other means of bringing in the yule log." "We can deck the hall—meaning this hall," said Diane. "Mrs. Markham has a great hedge of holly, and she said that I might take all I wished. We can manage that without the help of retainers, I am sure." On Saturday, the entire family went over to Mrs. Markham's house to gather holly, and the house was decked, along with the hall. Mrs. Murch and Catherine supplied red satin bows, and the effect was highly festive. "In fact," said Maureen, "this is more holly that I have ever seen in one place, outside of a salesman's stand. I have always figured I had done well if I could manage one large wreath on my front door." The Christmas tree came next and, while the trimmings were rather different from those the girls had used before, they were glad to accept what was in line with British tradition. Christmas Eve Kitty said, "Now we'll give you your 'druthers.' Would you druther go out caroling in the hopes of picking up a few pennies and perhaps some goodies? Or would you rather stay home, receive the carolers, and be on the giving end. I speak to go out." "And I speak to stay in," said Diane. "I think it much more interesting to meet the carolers.

In fact, that was largely the reason why I came to England—to meet people. Sydney first, of course." "I can't understand such reasoning," said Kitty. "You might collect as much as two shillings and sixpence if you went out. But you must suit yourself, of course. How about you, Maureen?" "T'm with Diane. I much prefer to stay at home and listen, even at the sacrifice of two shillings and sixpence." "But there is no reason why you may not go out with your friends—both you and Julia, if you wish," said Catherine to her younger daughter. "In fact, you might bring them here for a special treat." "That's what I was leading up to," said Kitty. "Do please have some hot spiced punch and cakes for us." If Spring Be Late Christmas Eve was very merry indeed, with the blazing fire on the hearth, the troops of carolers coming and, at the end of the evening, Kitty and Julia bringing home their friends. The next morning was given over to a leisurely breakfast and a walk to church for a special service. Maureen and Diane had been very much surprised to learn that they were not to open the gifts from home until the next day. "Goodness, no!" Kitty had informed them. "You must wait until Boxing Day. It isn't cricket to take the smallest peek or even do any shaking. Not that I haven't in my day, but that was long ago when I was a mere child." Only Diane did not have to wait. Sydney had come for dinner and when the two lovers returned from a walk, Diane was wearing a very lovely pearl ring on her engagement finger. Even Kitty forgave her for not waiting until Boxing Day. The next morning was given over to opening all of the other gifts. Both girls had numerous ones from home, among them was a box from Steve Madsen that had been on a table in their room for five days, and which Maureen had steadfastly resisted the urge to open. "Well, the suspense is over now," said Diane, "or soon will be. Open it quickly, I'm just as curious as you are—almost anyway. I'm dying to see what a near middle-aged suitor considers a suitable gift for a girl whom he admires from a distance." "You forgot to put in the 609 August 1968 'middle-aged' girl," said Maureen. "If there is such an one." "Goodness, no. I always think of you as practically my own age and, to tell the truth, you really aren't much older." "No. Just a decade or so," she said as she was cutting the twine. There was a box of her favorite studio candy—and, fortunately, in excellent condition after the long trip from the States. There was also a very handsome calendar on a small stand with revolving dates, and a small clock with the note "To remind you when it is time to come back home." "I think it's utterly fascinating and practically a proposal of marriage," said Diane. "Well, I agree with your first statement," Maureen replied. "It really is very clever." When they returned to the living room where the others were still busy opening their gifts, Mrs. Murch presented each of them with an afghan. "For your wedding chests, dearies," she said. Was. Almost Maureen might have protested that the gift was too much, except that she recollected she had bought and paid for most of the yarn. A great deal of work had gone into the gift, and she was most appreciative. Just before dinner, a messenger arrived with a package for Maureen. She unwrapped it eagerly and found the painting of the cottage at the castle which she had so admired. She was speechless with pleasure. Kitty was not, however. "I think it's absolutely divine," she exclaimed, "and so real that you could move right in. But, of course, you can't. You wouldn't put that nice Mr. McPherson out in the cold—now would you?" "I would not," Maureen answered. "I shall be satisfied with the painting." But, on second thoughts, she couldn't help thinking how utterly delightful it might be to live in this charming cottage—and it was hers, really. (to be continued) (REFLECTIONS) Did I, in my childhood, miss the music of the years Swiftly melted like waves upon a rock, Did time so quickly, then, conceal the tears, Of sorrows counted easily as minutes of a clock, Whose face wears the same impassive mood? Where, then, were the words flowing in golden rivers, 610 Ne Norwich, Norfolk, England Through my mind, now, to torment my pen that idle stood For want of waking? Cold grows my hand as thought quivers Like a thousand beams of light into a darkened room— Words! What magic can you conjure At once to lighten the heart And next to ring its doom, What fantasy prepared to lure And yet to feed the soul with peace? Margaret Read All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities North Weber Stake (Utah), West Warren Ward and West Weber Ward Compile Relief Society Histories Left to right: Leila C. Heslop, President, West Weber Ward Relief Society; Marcella T. Muirbrook, President, West Warren Ward Relief Society; Ruth B. Davis, compiler, West Warren Ward history book. Gladys B. Sorensen, President, North Weber Stake Relief Society, reports: "These sisters are showing the history books that have been compiled about their ward Relief Society organizations from their beginnings to the present time. During the past six years, Leila C. Heslop has compiled 'One Hundred Years of Relief Society in West Weber,' which reviews activity from May 9, 1868 to May 9, 1968. It contains biographical sketches of the past twelve presidents, pictures, and interesting stories. The book was completed in time for a centennial social held May 9. The event was celebrated with narration, costume, music and pictures. "Ruth B. Davis has spent four years compiling the fifty-two years history of West Warren Ward, beginning with its organization as a branch, transition to a ward, to the present time. It is complete with pictures, biographies, and stories. An interesting feature is that the book contains a picture of every member of Relief Society in the year she was admitted to membership." 611 August 1968 Roy Stake (Utah) Relief Society "Talent Boutique" April 25, 1968 Right: Marilyn Garner, homemaking leader, Roy Stake Relief Society, displaying paintings; left: Allene George, social relations class leader, displaying afghans and quilts. Kathleen Dunbar, President, Roy Stake Relief Society, reports: "'Talent Boutique' was the theme of a program held in our stake recently.

Every sister in the stake was given an opportunity to display one of her talents in handiwork, creative art, canning, pottery, writing, etc. Over 100 items of clothing made by the sisters were modeled in a fashion show narrated by Ruby Frances, stake cultural refinement class leader. "Fifty-six Singing Mothers, directed by stake chorister Eileen Reimschussel and accompanied by June Rich, stake organist, performed at various interludes during the program." "Light refreshments were served to 350 guests. The 'Talent Boutique' was termed one of the most outstanding activities ever held in the stake, both by participants and those in attendance." Box Elder Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 25, 1968 Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "The visiting teachers of Box Elder Stake were honored at a special program recently. Thelma Monson, stake visiting teacher message leader, gave special recognition and presented gifts to the youngest visiting teacher and the one with the longest service, from each ward." "Those honored for having served long years were: Mabel Holland, Aurilla Hansen, Vera Austin, Marguerite Fishburn, Aleda Nicholas, Evelyn Johnson, and Geneva Olsen." "Youngest visiting teachers were: Leora Baron, Pauline Rushton, Corinie Thorson, Teddy Lou Call, Sherry Goldsberry, Marilyn Cefalo, and Adrianna Fosgren." "The program consisted of an inspirational narrative, written and presented by Renie Littlewood, stake cultural refinement class leader, with musical numbers appropriately arranged by Ethel Poulter, stake chorister and Pat Davies, stake organist. Violin music, a ladies trio, and the Singing Mothers from the Brigham Second Ward performed." "A special feature was the beautiful display of sixteen tables of handwork and hobbies of the visiting teachers." Tooele Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present 'Spirit of Spring' April 26, 1968 Seated at left, front: Alice Walton and Gayle Beane, narrators. Standing, second from left, front row: Oneda Steadman, stake chorister. Seated at organ: Louise Fitzwater, stake organist. Third row, fifth from left: Mildred Anderson, Second Counselor. Back row, fourth and fifth from right: Joyce Ludwig, President; Beth Atkin, First Counselor. Sister Ludwig reports: "'Spirit of Spring' was the theme for the concert presented by the Tooele Stake Singing Mothers. Numbers were presented by the combined stake chorus, and by the individual ward choruses, under direction of their respective leaders. Members of the various wards could be identified by the color of the paper corsages they made and wore." "Signe Hale, a member of the Utah Valley Symphony orchestra, performed special numbers on the violin as guest artist." "Following the concert, bazaar items were sold and refreshments were served in the cultural hall." 612 August 1968 Burley Stake (Idaho) Holds 'All Seasons Fair' March 27, 1968 From left: Pearl Lee, spiritual living class leader, Burley Stake Relief Society; Emma Krieger, homemaking leader and general chairman for the fair, pictured at Easter display. LaVerne D. Darrington, President, Burley Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our 'All Seasons Fair' featured foods, decorations, and handwork displays for all seasons and major holidays throughout the year. There were also workshops in gold leafing, fabric shoe covering, velour, and form-a-film flower making." "The impressive displays included quilting, oil painting, and many other crafts. Free recipes and samples of food were distributed from various booths. Two fashion shows, featuring Relief Society sisters modeling clothing they had made, were held in the afternoon." "The stake Singing Mothers chorus was well received. They sang several numbers between fashion shows. A nursery was provided for the convenience of mothers with small children." "Excellent advertising by the local newspaper and radio stations helped to attract over 1,200 women to the event, and it bound the ten wards and the Spanish branch closer together." Central Atlantic States Mission, Forest City Branch Representative of New Relief Societies Left to right, Forest City Branch Relief Society officers: Frances Chapman, Secretary-Treasurer; Alice Timmonds, First Counselor; Ava J. Roberts, President; Retha Simmons, Second Counselor. Winnifred Ferre, Supervisor, Central Atlantic States Mission, Relief Society, reports: "This little branch is just newly organized. They held their first Relief Society meeting in January, 1968, and their bazaar was May 3, 1968. The first meeting had nine in attendance; average attendance is now fourteen." "Since the opening of Relief Society, these sisters have completed 132 bazaar items. It is a joy to see them respond to the work of Relief Society and receive the blessings therefrom." "This is representative of branches through the mission, as this is the fifth Relief Society organized in the past three years." Boise Stake (Idaho) Visiting Teacher Convention 'To Serve With Love' March 27, 1968 Front row, left to right: Edith Eldredge; Isabelle Thornton; Myrtle Arthur; Caroline Thurber. Back row, left to right: Mary Bennett; Elizabeth Winn; Pearl Braden; Chloe Mitchell. Lucille M. Johnson, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "This picture represents 658 hours of purposeful living and countless hours of loving service. These sisters were specially honored at our visiting teacher convention for their long years of service. The theme for the event was 'To Serve With Love.'" "Each ward, under direction of the visiting teacher message leader, presented a short sketch based on the monthly messages. We were delighted with the talents and cleverness of the participants." "The stake Singing Mothers chorus sang three songs, and a luncheon was served. There were 246 present, and the Second Ward received the attendance award, a copy of History of Relief Society." 614 August 1968 Sandy East Stake (Utah) Sandy Sixth Ward Presents 'Mothers And Daughters' Program May 3, 1968 Sandy Sixth Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: Norma Pullan, Second Counselor; Lucile J. Asay, President; Shirley Timothy, First Counselor. Arleene H. Walters, President, Sandy East Stake Relief Society, reports: "'Relief Society-A Many Splendored Thing,' was the theme for the mothers and daughters program presented in honor of Mother's Day in the Sandy Sixth Ward. A luncheon was followed by a bazaar featuring gift items for Mother's Day." "Invitations were sent to each sister in the ward. The decorations followed an oriental theme. Carnation corsages were presented to the officers, class leaders, and committee chairmen for the program, in appreciation of the devoted work they gave." Salmon River Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Initiates Home Nursing Summer Program Left to right: Katheryne Stokes, nursing instructor; Florence Mathews, homemaking leader, Salmon River Stake Relief Society, and registered nurse; young patients: Cynthia Young; Bing Young; Beulah Matley, nursing instructor; Merlene Peterson, Homemaking Counselor. Barbara W. Young, President, Salmon River Stake Relief Society, reports: "During the summer months, the homemaking department of our stake is presenting classes on home nursing techniques designed to help wives and mothers be more alert to the symptoms of illness and to learn ways to ease the problems and burdens of caring for an ill person within the home." "They also will be instructed in general rules of first aid, mouth to mouth resuscitation, and when to apply artificial breathing which could save a life. 'There will also be instructions for care of the aged person; for changing positions for the patient's comfort; and rehabilitation for the paralyzed or stroke patient.' The home nursing program has been received with much enthusiasm. The efforts of our homemaking department to publicize the course and create interest have been outstanding.

We have had coverage in the local newspaper, and from other wards there have been outstanding promotion efforts." Palo Alto Stake (California), Cupertino Ward Relief Society Birthday Party March 1968 Front row, at left: Coleen Carter, director; fourth from left, Frances Christensen, Secretary-Treasurer; Alma Brew, First Counselor; eighth from left, Lila Bates, President; Lynn Erickson, author. Second row, second from left: Beth Boyer, Second Counselor; on pedestal, Julia Brown, "Woman of the Year"; sixth from left, Cathy Finch, cultural refinement class leader; Betsy Allen, accompanist. Alicia Crofts, former president of Palo Alto Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Cupertino Ward celebrated the birthday of Relief Society by selecting a 'Woman of the Year.' Through narration and song, a pageant depicting a search for the Relief Society Woman of the Year was conducted. They were searching for a woman who embodied all of Relief Society's ideals. Julia Brown was selected as this woman. It was a unique and delightful program, complete with a well-prepared luncheon." Alice Jorgenson is the new president of Palo Alto Stake Relief Society."

616 North Pocatello Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Concert, "God's Gifts," March 13, 1968 Norma H. Tolman, President, North Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our Singing Mothers, under the direction of Evelyn Crane, stake chorister, and accompanied by Alice Donat, stake organist, presented a lovely spring concert, themed 'God's Gifts.' Each ward contributed one number, and the combined choruses sang four specially prepared numbers. The individual ward choristers and organists prepared and sang a special number, 'God Is Ever Beside Me.' Sixty-one sisters participated. We were gratified by the support of the ward presidencies and the stake board members in making this event successful."

618 Billings Stake (Montana) Singing Mothers Present "Let All My Life Be Music" May 11, 1968 Front row, left to right: Jean M. Fletcher, conductor; Vicky J. Furness, accompanist. Second row, at left: Mary Jo Johnson, narrator; third from left: Claudia H. Roylance, First Counselor, Billings Stake Relief Society; fourth: Mildred M. Wilson, Secretary-Treasurer; ninth: Marjorie M. Dixon, President. Sister Dixon reports: "The theme for our Singing Mothers concert was 'Let All My Life Be Music.' Eight musical numbers were sung, interspersed with narration. There was an enthusiastic audience in attendance."

619 Lesson Department Lesson 90 The Fruits of Apostasy Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C Sections 121:11-25; 123) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman searches her soul to root out any seeds of apostasy, that she may remain true and faithful. INTRODUCTION During the dispensation of the fulness of times, Satan has increased his attempts to destroy the Lord's work because this period of time is destined to be the culminating period when labor for the salvation of men, living and dead, will be accomplished. At the opening of this dispensation when Joseph Smith received the First Vision, Satan's efforts to thwart the work of the Lord were manifest in an attempt to destroy him. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:13-17.) The wiles of the Adversary have been effective in seducing the unwary. But to entice a covenant son or daughter of God to succumb to his temptations is a great victory; consequently, his efforts are particularly leveled at those who are members of the kingdom of God. NONE EXEMPT High office in the Church does not insure that the seeds of apostasy may not be sown in the person's life. (D&C 20:31-34.) Men who stood with the Prophet Joseph Smith amid hardships and persecution, subsequently fell away from the Church. The instances are rare, however.

619 August 1968 During a period of persecution in Missouri, when the Prophet and several other leaders were in Liberty Jail on trumped up charges, the Prophet received revelations which are numbered Sections 121, 122, and 123 in the Doctrine and Covenants. (The epistle from which these sections were extracted is found in Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts (2d ed., rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1948), Vol. 3, p. 289-305 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) Among other things in Section 121, we find the Lord's answer to those who have persecuted the saints, among whom were some apostates. Beginning with verse 11, the revelation reminded the Prophet that the hopes of those who sought to charge him with transgression would be blasted and that their hearts were corrupted and retribution would surely come. (verse 13.) Those who cry against the Lord's anointed do it because they are the servants of sin. (verses 16-17.) To swear falsely against The Lord's anointed ones and to seek to harm them bring the following severe penalties: (1) They shall not have membership in the Church. (2) Their material blessings will diminish. (3) They shall not escape the damnation of hell. (D&C 121:18-23; 124:50.)

CAUSE OF APOSTASY It is false to assume that the principles of the gospel are at fault when members in high places fall away from the Church. Some people ask why the Three Special Witnesses to The Book of Mormon left the Church, since they had such a marvelous experience. The answer is a simple one: they failed to keep the commandments. So it is with people, high or low, who elect to become apostate. There are, however, many things which lead people into dark and forbidden paths. Some of these elements will be mentioned in this lesson with their consequent results, as well as ways to overcome these tendencies.

INDICATORS OF APOSTASY To assemble all of the factors which indicate that the seeds of apostasy are gaining ascendancy in one's life, might constitute a long list. Some of these signs may be mentioned briefly from those given by Elder John A. Widtsoe, (Gospel Interpretations, Ist ed.: Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1947, pp. 38-39.)

(1) Failure to pray. In order to maintain spiritual communion with the Lord, it is essential that one acknowledge his dependency upon him, express gratitude for blessings received, and seek for wisdom through prayer. The moment one lets other activities or interests interfere with daily, sincere prayer, his faith may be weakened. In ignoring prayer completely, the person places himself in the position desired by the evil one. (Alma 32:8-9; 34:39.) On the other hand, the Lord has said that if we do not observe our prayers we stand for judgment. (D&C _ 68:33.)

Class Discussion Why may the failure to pray regularly be a seed of apostasy? 

(2) Neglecting study of the gospel. To maintain a testimony of the gospel successfully, it is necessary to keep knowledgeable in gospel principles. Faith grows with knowledge.

(3) Lessened participation in Church life. The Lord has enjoined upon all to be active in his work. (D&C 38:40.)

(4) A feeling of superiority. Personal ambition may lead to a feeling of superiority with possible false interpretation of scripture. The true saint is one who remains humble seeking to learn through that humility. (D&C 112:10.)

(5) Finding fault with other members or with the leadership of the Church. These may lead to apostasy.

This cause for apostasy is probably one of the most common.

RECOGNIZABLE INDICATORS

In the words of Elder Widtsoe: The dying testimony is easily recognized. The organizations and practices of the Church are ignored; the radio [television] takes the place of the sacrament meeting; golf or motion pictures, the Sunday worship; the cup of coffee, instead of the Word of Wisdom; the cold, selfish hand instead of helpfulness, charity for the poor, and the payment of tithing. Soon, the testimony is gone, and the former possessor walks about, somewhat sour and discontented, and always in his heart, unhappy. He has lost his most precious possession, and has found nothing to replace it. He has lost inward freedom, the gift of obedience to law.

(Gospel Interpretations, p. 39.)

Class Discussion

A person's testimony is usually lost by degrees.

BE NOT DECEIVED

There is no happiness in losing one's most valued possession. When one remembers that losses in this life bring sorrow and want, how much more serious is the loss of an eternity of happiness. To insure against this possibility for those who would hearken to this word, very early in the dispensation the Lord gave counsel to the members of the Church whereby they might not be deceived by the evil one.

The following categories—taken chronologically from the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants—give some counsel which, if obeyed, will keep the members of the Church from being deceived:

(1) Grow in perfection.
(2) Accept the duties of membership in the Church.
(3) Obey appointed leaders.
(4) Seek the gifts of the Holy Ghost.
(5) Study the scriptures.
(6) Obey Church regulations.
(7) Keep the Sabbath day holy.
(8) Be obedient to health and financial laws.

GROW IN PERFECTION

When the Latter-day Saint resolves to better his life, he begins to fulfill his covenants with the Lord. "Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect" (3 Nephi 12:48.) The ultimate goal is attainable by constant application of the principles of truth.

A list of virtues which might be used to begin, today, in perfecting one's life, is found in the revelation directed to Joseph Smith, Sr. (D&C 4:5-6.)

Class Discussion

Opposite each virtue mentioned in Section 4, place its antonym and consider wherein you need improvement. If, for example, you lack humility, seek ways in which you can develop this virtue.

621 August 1968

ACCEPT DUTIES

Among the duties of membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the partaking of the sacrament is most important. The Lord has said that we may have his Spirit with us provided we partake of it worthily. (D&C 20:77, 79.) If we enjoy the influence of the Holy Ghost, it will be the means of keeping us on the path to eternal life. (D&C 20:69.)

Closely associated with the partaking of the sacrament is the opportunity to assemble with other saints in meetings so that the strength of the group will be received by the individual. The Lord told the saints in Kirtland, Ohio, to "assemble yourselves together to agree upon my word." (Ibid., 41:2.) If one desires to resist temptation and keep on the narrow path to salvation, one of the best ways is to be a regular attender at appointed meetings.

Class Discussion

Name some ways in which the members of the Church are helped from being deceived by attending appointed meetings.

OBEY LEADERSHIP

Obedience to those who preside over the Church is a certain way to keep from being deceived. (D&C 43:3-7; 124:45-46.) The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that when a person begins to criticize the leaders over him, and considers that he alone is right, then that person is on the road to apostasy. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, 9th printing: Salt Lake City: The Deseret News Press, 1956, pp. 156-7.)

622

THE GIFTS OF THE SPIRIT

Because there are "doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men..." (D&C 46:7) taught in the world, the Lord revealed that in order that his people might not be deceived, they should seek for the gifts of the Holy Ghost. (D&C 46:8.) The gifts shown in the revelation are given to those who love the Lord and diligently seek to keep his commandments. (Ibid., 46:9-26.)

STUDY THE SCRIPTURES

The Doctrine and Covenants sets forth the teachings of the gospel in plainness. Often these teachings were given in response to a question or a situation. One revelation containing doctrinal teachings which correct false teachings is Section 49.

It is true that the student of the scriptures is able to discriminate between truth and error because he has not only learned the principles of the gospel, but he has also learned fundamental teachings which point the way to obtaining the answer to the problem.

We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts: Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. (2 Peter 1:19-21.)

"‘No prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation.’" (2 Peter 1:20.)

There is official interpretation of the doctrines and standards of the Church, and this knowledge comes from the prophets, seers, and revelators. (President Stephen L Richards, Conference Report, October 1951, pp. 116-117.)

The revealed word of the Lord is: "And whoso treasureth up my word, shall not be deceived...." (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1:37.)

OBEY CHURCH REGULATIONS

One of the most powerful means of deception is to teach false doctrines and disobedience to the known rules of the Church. Such a condition existed in the early part of the dispensation, and it was revealed that if a person will obey the ordinances and the rules and regulations of the gospel, he will be accepted of God. (D&C 52:14-16.)

THE SABBATH DAY

A commandment which seems to be ignored widely is observance of the Sabbath day. It is inconsistent to believe that disobedience to the laws regarding the Sabbath day will not take its toll of the faith of the member of the Church. The commandment regarding the holy day requires devotion to the Lord. (D&C 59:9, 14; 68:29.)

The Spirit of the Lord is enjoyed when we keep all the commandments. Not only is faithful devotion required for the covenant people of the Lord on the Sabbath day, but upon all days. (Ibid., 59:11, am.)

In order to assist Latter-day Saints to have the Spirit of the Lord with them, the Lord gave this commandment and warned them against the evils and designs of those who would encourage them to break this law. (D&C 89:4.) Observance of this law brings increased faith and the development of more spiritual power and wisdom. The keeping of the law of tithing is a bulwark against the darts of the Adversary. When one pays one-tenth of his increase to the Lord, he is seeking to sanctify himself and his material possessions.

IMPLEMENTATION

In a period when gospel teachings are being challenged by "new ideas," there is greater need to take inventory of one's inclinations to accept notions which are contrary to accepted gospel principles. The increase in television and radio propaganda and publications of all sorts has created a condition where it is necessary that the member of the Church be better prepared to distinguish between the genuine and the spurious. Practices should be encouraged in one's life which keep faith at a high level, while ideas and activities which run counter to gospel principles should be shunned.

The Lord has provided sufficient opportunities for the saints 623 August 1968 to remain faithful by revealing keys against being deceived, which, if applied, will help them to keep the faith. Constant study of the scriptures and their application in daily life are the keystones of success in eliminating tendencies to apostasy. Important in accomplishing this purpose is to give heed to the Holy Spirit within, and to live so that the blessing of possessing the Holy Spirit may be continued.

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE

Message 2—'Let Every Man Esteem His Brother As Himself' (D&C 38:24, 25.)

Alice Colton Smith
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968
Southern Hemisphere: April 1969

OBJECTIVE: To realize that there is a universal need to be esteemed and to esteem.

In the summer of 1966 a young Salt Lake teenager sat in a garden talking to new-found friends. Several of his teeth were missing. His clothes were well-worn, and his shoes were patched. Suddenly his face was radiant as he said, "I never knew before this summer that there was any hope for me." He had lived with a deepening sense of failure and lack of self-esteem until someone had taken the time and effort to help him. He had grown up certain that he was a "nobody," uncared for, and that a life of poverty and low esteem was to be his.

Wherever men and women gather together, they establish values that give prestige and esteem to some and not to others. They rank each other on some scale indicating degrees of worth. Jesus was born into a family that did not rank high on the social-economic scale. In his mortal life, he was well aware of the problems created by poverty, wealth, rank, and distinction. Again and again he taught his disciples of another kingdom of values. "I am among you as he that serveth." (Luke 22:27.)

When his disciples contended for position, Jesus said, "... They that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you..." (Matthew 20:25-26.) Jesus continued, "Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister." (Matthew 20:26-28.)

When the Church was less than a year old, at a conference held in the home of Peter Whitmer, the saints were taught by revelation, "And let every man esteem his brother as himself..." (D&C 38:24.) So important is this truth that the Lord reiterated it, "... And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother as himself." (D&C 38:25.)

Half a year before, the Lord had said, "The worth of souls is great in the sight of God." (D&C 18:10.) Indeed, hadn't he graphically demonstrated this when he suffered and died agonizingly for them—for each man and woman born on this earth?

Analysts of human nature attribute many of our present-day ills to a lack of self-respect and self-worth, which may not have been implanted in a child by his family and developed by his friends as he grows older. All through life there is need to be esteemed by others. All men and women are our brothers and sisters, sent to earth to work out their salvation, each beset by problems, each in need of help and compassion. We are carrying out God's plan when we esteem them and help them feel by words and actions that they can achieve, that they are of worth, and that we are all children of God.

When we live this commandment of God, esteem returns to us as a gift from those we esteem.

Yg DEW-SWEET INTERIM

Morning wears cool, crisp fabric, beauty spun.
Night has stored her velvet folds of blue
Behind diminishing stars, and shadows strew
The lawn with emerald lace and prismed sun.

Morning hears lark song in the new-bloomed sky
And nimble wind on lengthening willow limb;
The music of this dew-sweet interim
Will keep me singing after sun is high!

Morning sees hill mist greening. Darkness gone,
My tasks are roses blooming bright among
A dozen blue-white hours, garland strung.
Surely such loveliness, transcending dawn,
Will thread a melody through curves of care
And fashion robes of joy for heart to wear.

Maxine R. Jennings 625 August 1968

HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 2—Christmas Traditions Ceestia J. Taylor
Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1968
Southern Hemisphere: November 1968

Sane To show that establishing family traditions can make Christmas a time of joyous participation, happy association, and spiritual renewal.

INTRODUCTION

All of us like to do over and over again the things we enjoy, and when the practice persists long enough, and its results are rewarding enough it becomes a tradition which we look upon as an integral part of our lives. The celebration of Christmas itself is steeped in tradition, and people in every land have established their own customs and followed them through the years. Many of these customs have been interchangeable among people of different nationalities until now it is almost impossible to determine their origins. All of us claim them—and wisely so—for they bring us, as nations and peoples, closer together.

That is really what traditions do—bring us closer together in bonds of love and unity. For this reason, as well as for others, the establishing of traditional practices in our homes and families, as well as in our nations should be encouraged. This discussion, as our objective indicates, will encourage us to establish our own family traditions which will strengthen the bonds of love 626 and unity existing there and renew in our hearts the true spirit of Christmas.

IN ANTICIPATION OF CHRISTMAS

Almost as soon as Christmas is over, children as well as grownups, begin to look forward to the next one, if a happy spirit has prevailed.

It was amusing to hear one youngster say on the day after Christmas, "It's only 365 days until next Christmas!" and the joy of anticipation could actually be seen shining in his eyes. What a pity if Christmas is a relief to be over and if our only desire is to forget it for another year. Christmas should be in our hearts the whole year 'round, and this should not be a mere platitude but a truth of real significance to each one of us. One small child said to his mother, "Christmas makes me love everybody and I don't want one single change from the way we do it, ever!" What can we do in anticipation of Christmas? 

I. We can maintain a positive attitude toward Christmas.
A. We can look forward to it as the happiest time of the year.
B. We can plan and prepare for it wisely.

(Homemaking Discussion, Relief Society Magazine, September 1967.)

II. We can establish pre-Christmas traditions.
A. In some localities with special permission we can gather our own greens and Christmas tree.
(Pine cones, nuts, pods, and seeds can be gathered for wreaths and other decorations, summer or winter.)
B. Children as well as adults can make their own Christmas cards and tags.
C. Special baking projects can be shared by grown-ups and children.
1. A gingerbread house is a favorite project and a happy tradition.
2. Making Christmas cookies with children assisting is fun.
(Using animal and other varieties of cookie cutters)
3. A candy-making day is fun for young and old.
(Pulling candy, wrapping caramels, boxing, etc.)
4. Breads and goodies can be taken to sick and needy—a worthwhile tradition.
D. Group caroling of family alone or with neighbors and friends can be a favorite tradition:
1. In the home.
2. Around the neighborhood.
3. To the sick and homebound.
E. Pre-Christmas open house for family and friends can be simple and inviting.
F. Decorating the house and tree can be shared by the family.
(A traditional procedure is usually established within each family.)

What are some basic procedures upon which we can establish our Christmas traditions?

I. Making Christmas sacrament meeting attendance together a special family part of the celebration of the season.
II. Annual reading of the Nativity from the Bible.
(Some like to read Dickens' "Christmas Carol," or other literature from one's own country.)
III. Singing of traditional carols and Christmas songs.
IV. Serving of traditional Christmas meals.

A. Christmas family dinner:
1. On Christmas Eve. (This relieves Mother of cooking on Christmas Day and is traditional in many families.)
2. On Christmas Day. (It is traditional with some for visiting grown-up families to share in preparation and expense.)

B. Christmas Brunch.
(When dinner is on Christmas Eve, a brunch is a happy solution on Christmas morning. The afternoon is then free for visiting.)

V. Opening and presenting of gifts.
(Orderly rotation in opening gifts prolongs the pleasure and reduces the confusion.)
VI. Visiting with family, neighbors, and friends.
VII. Enjoying games and fireside conversation.

CONCLUSION
Christmas traditions can be beautiful and rewarding. Naturally, each family will be influenced by its own heritage, the customs of its own country, the traditional celebration of the season of its own people, and its own personalities in establishing its traditional procedures, and it is each family's opportunity and privilege to make the kind of Christmas which will be the happiest and most satisfying to its own members.

627
August 1968

SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 2—The Questions Every Woman Asks Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69)

Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1968
Southern Hemisphere: April 1969

OBJECTIVE:
To point out that the questions which every thoughtful woman asks regarding her responsibilities and destiny are answered in the gospel.

Lesson Follow-up
A brief report by a class member (3-5 minutes) appraising the "Profiles Remembered" of President J. Reuben Clark Jr., and pointing out two or three which she hopes to emulate in her home situation.

INTRODUCTION
Several lessons in Unit I of the 1968-69 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual deal with the premortal existence of man and with the personality of God. With scholarly documentation, President Clark gives ample evidence that we existed before we came to earth, and that we shall continue to live beyond our mortal death. The premortal life is known as the "first estate." The mortality in which we now find ourselves is called the "second estate" and will be followed by a third period or postmortal existence, sometimes spoken of as eternity.

The Bible states plainly that man was created in the image of God and direct revelation confirms the scriptural statements. Equally supported by scripture of Jesus Christ. And direct revelation is the truth that Jesus the Christ dwelt with his Father in a premortal existence and that we, also, as spirit children of the Father lived before we were born into this life.

The faith of the Latter-day Saint woman is based upon an understanding of these major gospel truths. This lesson is concerned with human behavior, and, therefore, must be channeled in the direction of everyday living to the innumerable tasks of which our human days are made. Yet, into and throughout the fabric of everyday activities, the threads of faith, of belief or unbelief, are inseparably woven.

This lesson, therefore, will consider the doctrine, briefly, and will present for discussion, areas where belief or unbelief may materially influence a woman's everyday life.

THE QUESTIONS EVERY WOMAN ASKS
At some point along the road of life—at some contemplative or perplexing moment—every thoughtful woman may be led to ask, "Why am I here? What came before? What will happen to me after death has closed the door of my mortal life?"

In Lesson 2 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, President Clark points out that such questions are natural to the questioning mind of all normal individuals. From his own words we quote:

Now God has placed in every man's heart a divine spark, which never wholly goes out; it may grow dim, it may become hidden, almost smothered by the ashes of transgression; but the spark still lives and glows and can be fanned into flame by faith, if the heart is touched.

Behind these questions lies the deeper one—is there a purpose underlying our mortal lives; are we here on earth by chance, nonexistent before our birth, with an aimless existence here, and a void, an endless night of oblivion after death? Every fibre of being of the normal man cries out against such an existence without purpose. Man in all stages of intellectual development, from the savage in the forest to the most learned and enlightened toiler in the laboratory, has during all history rebelled against such a destiny, and God has supported him in rebellion by revealing through Holy Writ as much of the great underlying purposes of life as man's finite mind can grasp.

(J. Reuben Clark, Jr., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, 1950 ed., Deseret Book Co., Chapter VI, pp. 628)

22-23; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 2.) Blessed beyond words is the Latter-day Saint woman who accepts the gospel of Christ and who, through faith, translates its teachings into her daily life. Blessed and fortunate indeed. Not all women are so fortunate. Some have not as yet heard the gospel teachings. Others, today and through the ages, have turned deaf ears to the words of truth. As a result, there have been and are today, innumerable false teachings, fallacious ideas concerning the purpose of life, the nature of God and the destiny of his children. Such ideas, being untrue, cannot answer the questions every woman may ask: "Where from? Why here? Whence do I go?" FOUR WHO SPEAK

Following are comments of four women who illustrate some of the many current and varying attitudes and beliefs relative to the foregoing questions. They may present, through discussion, a graphic and contrasting picture of how a woman's religious beliefs may influence her daily life.

First Woman
I am an atheist. I do not believe there is a God. I do not believe we lived before this mortal life and do not believe we shall exist beyond death. I believe this life is all there is.

Second Woman
I, also, am an atheist. In my country we are taught that there is no God. We believe only in the objectives of the State. Everything we do is with the success of the State in mind. There are no moralities except those which affect the State. I do not care if what I say is to further the ideology of that State.

Third Woman
I am a Christian, so, of course, I believe in Jesus Christ. I believe that he lived upon the earth, was crucified and resurrected. I believe that there will be a resurrection for only the just, and some kind of existence after death. I do not believe, however, that we lived before this life. I believe that God is a spiritual essence of infinite power and goodness but that he does not have a body.

Fourth Woman
I, also, am a Christian, so also believe in Jesus Christ. I believe, as did Simon Peter who answered the questioning Jesus, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." (Matt. 16:16.) I believe that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is the Savior of mankind and that through his redeeming sacrifice all mankind, not a designated number, but all individuals who have lived, who now live, and who yet shall live, will be resurrected. I believe that all who are born into this life are spirit children of God the Father and therefore lived as individual entities before they were born into this life. I, also, believe in a personal God who has a tangible body, since man was created in his image. I, also, believe in a very definite hereafter where obedience to divine laws will allow us to progress eternally. I believe that through obedience to certain divine requirements the family relationship will continue forever.

DOES IT MATTER?
We ask the question, "Do our religious beliefs really matter?" Our affirmative answer is, "They matter and they matter very much." What we believe is fundamental to what we say, how we act, and may influence our attitude in all human relationships.
Class Involvement Suggestion
Indicate diversities of opinions of women who do not belong to the Church, and those who do. Converts from other churches may state differences in their own beliefs since they were converted. (Introduce all four women to the class members that they may become aware of the various religious beliefs listed. Focus the discussion on beliefs of woman number 4, and the questions following, for they concern all Latter-day Saint women. Discuss others very briefly.)

First Woman
Were you this woman, what would you think? Reread the beliefs of the First Woman and discuss, briefly, the following questions:
1. What might be the overall life objective of this woman who does not believe in God? For what immediate goals is she likely to strive?
2. What might her attitude be toward her children? Her husband?
3. Not believing in God or an eternity, from what would she expect to derive comfort in periods of trouble or when a loved one dies?

Second Woman
Reread the beliefs of the Second Woman. Discuss briefly:
1. How might this woman's lack of belief in God and her complete dedication to the State affect her loyalty to other affiliations?
2. How might it affect her attitude toward (a) free agency? (b) toward personal initiative?
3. How might it affect her feeling of personal security?
4. How might having no faith in God affect her faith in people generally?
5. If to speak an untruth be considered a moral act (where it furthers the purposes of the State), what might this attitude have on her morals in general?

Third Woman
Reread beliefs of Third Woman and discuss briefly the following:
1. How might this woman's faith in a spiritual essence rather than in a personal God influence the type of prayer she would offer?
2. Since she does not believe in a specific hereafter, what kind of divine comfort might she expect to receive at times of death?
3. How should she, or could she, reconcile her belief that only part of humanity will be resurrected with the law of divine justice and the atonement of Christ?

Fourth Woman
The Fourth Woman obviously presents the religious beliefs of the Latter-day Saint. Reread her beliefs and identifying with her, ask yourself:
1. How does my belief in a personal God influence my life objective? What is my prime objective?
2. How does my belief in the resurrection of all humanity help me to understand the mission of the Savior and his love for all men?
3. How does my belief in eternal progression affect (a) my activities today? (b) tomorrow? (c) my life objective?
4. What responsibility does my belief that the family may continue into eternity place upon me (a) as a mother? (b) as a child in the family?

ONLY IN THE GOSPEL OF CHRIST
It is evident that the questions every Latter-day Saint woman asks as to origin and destiny are answered fully only in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Its teachings replace vagueness with clarity, futility with hope and eternal motivation. Not only do these teachings give long-range objectives, they give specific guidance and incentives for today.

SUMMARY
The gospel of Jesus Christ embraces all truth; therefore, the questions which every woman may ask relative to the purposes of life and her own responsibilities are answered therein. Through faith and study, through obedience and prayer, Latter-day Saint women may recognize the truth, and hearing the answers, mold their lives for good.
Not all women, however, listen for the answers; or, hearing, do not recognize them as truth. President Clark's words are relevant to this idea. Referring to the occasion when Jesus, prior to the crucifixion, prayed: "Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour. Father, glorify thy name."

Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again. (John 12:27-28.) Some of the people hearing the voice thought it thundered; others thought an angel spoke. As then, so now, men understand not the heavenly voices that come unto them. Some hear only the thunders of "the air" — the natural things of earth; others believe they hear angels, but do not understand the message; a few get the words themselves, the message, and hearken, so gaining wisdom and inspiration. This, we must all come to on our way to immortality and eternal life. (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, lesson 2.)

FOR HOME DOING
Appreciate the blessing of being the Fourth Woman, whose religious beliefs answer with satisfaction, the major questions of life. Select one area of the lesson for effort in self-improvement.

7 INTERVAL

Today I saw him sitting in the sun,
His well-worn hat pulled down to shade his eyes,
His shoulders bowed through years of endless toil
To wrest a meager living from the soil.
With trembling hands grasping a battered cane,
He waits until the summer comes again. 

Elena Hassell Stanley ~ 631 August 1968

CULTURAL REFINEMENT
Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family
Lesson 2 — "The Power of Discipline"
Dr. Robert K. Thomas
Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4
The World Around Us, Section Two
By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas

"A stern discipline pervades all nature,
which is a little cruel that it may be very kind."
— Edmund Spenser

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1968
Southern Hemisphere: April 1969

OBJECTIVE:
To stress that control is the focus which gives energy its direction.
See note at end of this lesson for art reference.

INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON

A generation ago the connotations surrounding the word discipline were almost wholly positive. No one expected discipline to be achieved—or enforced—easily, but few questioned its necessity. Now the confused children of a much more permissive age are not so unanimous in their approval. To many, indulgence no longer needs to be defended or even explained. Readiness to sample experience, almost any experience, is supplanting willingness to discriminate between experiences which promise development and those which threaten degeneration. To be undisciplined is to throw off all external restraint. Yet external restraints are rarely discarded if internal guides remain strong and meaningful.

As any successful teacher can testify, rigidly enforced order in the classroom may teach a child to hate school more effectively than it teaches him arithmetic. And any soldier who has felt the esprit de corps that men united in a cause can generate knows that he can willingly subject himself to the most rigorous control. That which gives discipline significance is commitment, and commitment is always internal.

Until we can control our thoughts and actions because of a basic moral imperative, a deeply felt conviction that some values are more important than others, we will never experience the positive meaning of discipline.

Few ideas are stressed more often in the sermons and writings of President David O. McKay than the necessity for self-control, and it is this aspect of discipline that our lesson this month will emphasize.

In the selections which make up this section there are manifestations of control which are both external and internal, but the element of moral choice is common to them all.

"The Balloon of the Mind"

In "The Balloon of the Mind," by William Butler Yeats (not printed here because of copyright restrictions), the author obviously believes that he must discipline his thinking. Although we may describe our situation in less graphic terms, many of us share his problem. For example, if you have difficulty in giving a speaker an attentive hearing, if you find your mind wandering when you are trying to study, or if you find yourself restless at a concert, at least one of your problems is mental discipline.

It is easy to indulge in fantasies that erect castles in the air. The real difficulty for most of us, as Henry David Thoreau long ago pointed out, is to put foundations under such castles. This poem does not attempt to list specific problems or to give more than a general solution. It is simply a plea to marshal one's efforts.

Yeats' imagery is arresting without being too technical. Those who have seen a balloon being recaptured will have no difficulty in understanding the appropriateness of the symbols used here. The soaring, unfettered balloon is aptly descriptive of a human mind, and the wind is equally symbolic of external forces. One may let his mind be driven by forces from without, but a mind that cannot be controlled when it needs to be becomes, at best, a wayward instrument.

Lesson Department Discussion Question

What might this poem have to say to women who are especially conscious of fashion?

"DISCIPLINE" FROM NATURE

Ralph Waldo Emerson's famous discussion of discipline illustrates its various forms in the nature which surrounds us. In the consistency and rigor with which nature enforces its discipline, Emerson hopes to suggest provocative examples for man.

The following epigrammatic sentences from the discussion are worthy:

Of our attention: Nature is a discipline of the understanding in intellectual truths—to instruct us that "good thoughts are no better than good dreams, unless they be executed!"

Debt, grinding debt, whose iron face the widow, the orphan, the sons of genius fear and hate;—debt which consumes so much time, which so cripples and disheartens a great spirit with cares that seem so base, is a preceptor whose lessons cannot be foregone, and is needed most by those who suffer from it most.

Therefore is Space, and therefore Time, that man may know that things are not huddled and lumped, but sundered and individual. A bell and a plough have each their use, and neither can do the office of the other. Water is good to drink, coal to burn, wool to wear; but wool cannot be drunk, nor water spun, nor coal eaten...

She pardons no mistakes. Her yea: is yea, and her nay, nay....

Nature's dice are always loaded.....

Nature is thoroughly mediate. It is made to serve...

It offers all its kingdoms to man as the raw material which he may mould into what is useful...

Nature is ever the ally of Religion: lends all her pomp and riches to the religious sentiment.

Prophet and priest, David, Jesus, Isaiah, have drawn deeply from this source...

Nothing in nature is exhausted in its first use. When a thing has served an end to the uttermost, it is wholly new for an ulterior service.

In God every end is converted into a new means.

In his final paragraph, Emerson presents one of his most interesting ideas. He insists that "All things are moral." All choices, finally, are either right or wrong. We can't escape responsibility for our acts by insisting certain things don't really matter. The moral consequences of some choices may be hard to see, but no choice can be neutral.

If we are sensitive to our surroundings, says Emerson, we can see moral distinctions everywhere, and in recognizing such distinctions we are helped in bringing our own ethical life under control. Discussion Question Who will have the hardest time conceding that all decisions are moral ones? Why?

"ABRAHAM DAVENPORT" by John Greenleaf Whittier

"Twas on a May-day of the far old year
Seventeen hundred eighty, that there fell
Over the bloom and sweet life of the Spring,
Over the fresh earth and the heaven of noon,
A horror of great darkness, like the night
In day of which the Norland sagas tell,
The Twilight of the Gods.

The lowhung sky was black with ominous clouds,
Save where its rim was fringed with a dull glow,
Like that which climbs the crater's sides from the red hell below.
Birds ceased to sing, and all the barnyard fowls
Roosted; the cattle at the pasture bars
Lowered, and looked homeward; bats on leathern wings
Fitted abroad; the sounds of labor died;
Men prayed, and women wept; all ears grew sharp
To hear the doom-blast of the trumpet shatter
The black sky, that the dreadful face of Christ
Might look from the rent clouds, not as he looked
A loving guest at Bethany, but stern
As Justice and inexorable Law.

Meanwhile in the old State House, dim as ghosts
Sat the lawgivers of Connecticut,
Trembling beneath their legislative robes.
"It is the Lord's Great Day! Let us adjourn," 
Some said; and then, as if with one accord,
All eyes were turned to Abraham Davenport. 

He rose, slow cleaving with his steady voice
The intolerable hush. "This well may be
The Day of Judgment which the world awaits;
But be it so or not, I only know
My present. Duty, and my Lord's command
To occupy till He come.
So at the post where He hath sent me in His providence,
I choose, for one, to meet Him face to face,
No faithless servant frightened from my task,
But ready when the Lord of the harvest calls;
And therefore, with all reverence, I would say,
Let God do his work, we will see to ours.
Bring in the candles." And they brought them in.

Then by the flaring lights the Speaker read,
Albeit with husky voice and shaking hands,
An act to amend, an act to regulate
The shad and alewives fisheries. 

Whereupon wisely and well spake Abraham Davenport,
Straight to the questions, with no figures of speech
Save the ten Arab signs, yet not without
The shrewd dry humor natural to the man:
His awe-struck colleagues listening all the while,
Between the pauses of his argument,
To hear the thunder of the wrath of God
Break from the hollow trumpet of the cloud.

And there he stands in memory to this day,
Errect, self-poised, a rugged face, half seen
Against the background of unnatural dark,
A witness to the ages as they pass,
That simple duty hath no place for fear.

The entire poem simply introduces the last line:
"That simple duty hath no place for fear."
Such a poem is a particularly apt vehicle for an illustration of duty.
For duty is rarely glamorous or exciting, and this poem makes no pretense
to unusual poetic devices or spectacular imagery. The lines follow each other in precise,
even solemn, regularity. Yet the result is as satisfying as it is expected.
There is order and meaning to Abraham Davenport's world.
Apparently he didn't need to make any sudden decisions when faced with an emergency.
His daily preparation was adequate. He was used to doing what he thought was right,
and that made him calm whether danger was real or imagined.
Such serenity is not so much given as earned, and its cost is personal discipline.

Whittier's prose description of the circumstance to which he gives poetic extension in "Abraham Davenport" is worth recounting:
The famous Dark Day of New England, May 19, 1780, was a physical puzzle for many years to our ancestors but its occurrence brought something more than philosophical speculation into the minds of those who passed through it.
The incident of Colonel Abraham Davenport's sturdy protest is a matter of history.

Lesson Department

Sir Henry Wotton's "The Character of a Happy Life" (not printed here) is similarly concerned with man's ability to arrive at such control of himself that he is beyond most of the world's power. Discussion Question In the light of Whittier's and Wotton's poems would you feel justified in describing Abraham Davenport a happy man? Why or why not?

"The Death of Socrates" Phaedo by Plato

From few accounts in all literature present more graphically the results of a life spent in obedience to principle than the story of Socrates' death in the Phaedo. Apparently Plato was present at the trial of Socrates in 399 B.C. And heard his teacher condemned to death by poisoning on the charge of corrupting the youth of Athens.
In the account of Socrates' last hours, Plato, who was present at the execution, gives a description of the final scene.
Many of his friends were with Socrates on this day.
It is particularly noteworthy that most of Socrates' friends were able to remain in control of themselves before the actual drinking of the poison. But when they saw that Socrates had emptied the entire cup of hemlock, they all broke down.
The distinction between control which is merely temporary inhibition and control which stems from disciplined commitment could not have been made more effectively.

"COMMAND" by Albert Wetjen

The discipline of Captain Tap in Wetjen's short story "Command," which tells of the duties of a ship's captain on a voyage, apparently comes out of his deep and dearly bought awareness that to command others requires command of oneself first of all.
Note how rarely the Captain can make a self-indulgent decision. He is constantly and acutely sensitive to the responsibilities of his position.
If there is obvious self-respect in his actions, there is no hint of arrogance.
No truly disciplined man is arrogant or vain, for arrogance and vanity are insistence upon distinctions which have not been earned.
The Captain has earned and now maintains his rank by bringing all his talents and skills into harmony.

Discussion Question
Why don't we feel sorry for this overworked and apparently unappreciated Captain?
As with the Captain of our story, most good mothers spend more time answering demands than they do in giving orders.
The apparent chaos of school mornings, the constant care which a half-sick child expects, the affectionate sympathy a tired husband looks forward to, the routine of household tasks—such varied demands can only be met successfully by a woman whose personal discipline is so complete it hardly shows.
Perhaps only another mother can know the cost of such discipline—and only another mother can appreciate the rewards of such efforts.

"ORDEAL BY HANDCART" by Wallace Stegner The final selection in this issue is "Singing Mother's Arrangements": Abide with Me—Madsen $.25 Come Come Ye Saints $.25 Glory to God $.30 Heavens Are Telling $.30 If Ye Love Me Keep My Commandments $.30 Omnipotence $.20 O Saviour of the World $.25 Praise Ye the Lord $.35 Prayerful Hour $.25 Silent Sea $.25 Love One Another—Fox $.30 Come Ye Blessed—Madsen Geiro Music Co 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 ORDERS FILLED THE SAME DAY WE RECEIVE THE ORDER. New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to: The Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 - $.55 Zone 2 - $.60 Zone 3 - $.65 Zone 4 - $.75 Zone 5 - $.85 Zone 6 - $1.05 Zone 7 - $1.15 Zone 8 - $1.25 DE S E R E T N E W S P R E S S 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS Five full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces. Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12', 33⅓ rpm record). Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Overseas orders—Send international money order plus air mail charges Approx. Wt. 1 lb.) Distributed by Publication Sales Department of Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601 and all Deseret Book Company outlets CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR August 1968—September 1 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 18-25 MESA VERDE & CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR September 21-28 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 13-27 ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26-January 2 Call or Write for itineraries: James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Lesson Department month's lesson, Wallace Stegner's touching tribute to the handcart pioneers, brings the facets of discipline presented earlier into triumphal synthesis. For the handcart pioneers exhibited much more than physical discipline. Thoughts as well as actions were brought into focus. The lessons of an unyielding nature were painfully learned. Serenity in the face of death was achieved, and those who kept command of themselves were able to help others. Perhaps their example is easier to talk about than emulate. It is easier to weep for those who didn't quite make it to Zion than it is to be "pure in heart," which is to become Zion. If few of us will ever know the rigors of walking across the plains, all of us can grasp our current problems with as firm a hand as stalwart a heart as those who showed us how to live and die in the Lord over one hundred years ago. Our opportunities to show commitment may seem to be less dramatic than those afforded our pioneer fathers, but equal personal discipline can make us their worthy children. Art reference for lesson 2: "Chestnut Trees," by Paul Cezanne, The Relief Society Magazine for June 1968, page 448; and comment by Floyd E. Breinholt, page 449. 637 August 1968 HIGH LINK FENCE No sound is in this country square, But quiet throbs as I survey The high link fence and sturdy gate That keep without the grazing stray. The fence encloses long-marked graves Of early dead who made and heard The active life on the hamlet hill, Abandoned now to beast and bird. The high link fence and sturdy gate Were not too difficult to buy When someone knew and cared enough That sleepers here could occupy Their place upon this silent hill Where winds are clean and flowers grow Between the shrubs and pale headstones That mark the high link-fenced plateau. —Pearle M. O'Sen Chenj We Beesley MUSIC COMPANY "Singing Mothers" "Choir Directors" We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos Instruments And Supplies Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED - NEW ADDRESS - 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store—240 East 2nd South 2. ZIM'S Freeway Store At 45th South and Interstate 15 (4370 South 2nd West) Send 50¢ for our brand-new, 100-page Crafts Instruction Catalog. You'll be glad you did! Dealer inquiries invited ZIM'S Salt Lake City, Utah 84107 Dept. R M. ONCE UPON A MOMENT Now time stands still, No moment of extension lies beyond Her curve of smile, The dark vistas Of her eyes, Liquid in the light. In the bond Almost tangible between us, Time, All the wide world of it, Converged in a round Moment of fulfillment. —Dorothy J. Roberts 638 Something wonderful happens when you place a jar of your very own preserves into the hands of a friend or onto the table of those you live for. Nobody knows it better than today's creative young home-maker. And nobody knows this better than Ball: your skill and loving care deserve two things—the perfect protection of self-sealing Ball "Dome" Lids (the ones with the nice, clean WHITE enamel lining) and the decorative beauty of Ball's newest design, "Sculptured Glass." Ask your grocer. You'll love it! —meee 24404 X \ Nea ANS a os 28 SPAY WS SNS SSBASON ce ia LE Mbithi, en 639 Dithdey Congratulations to: Mrs. Juanita Rendon 91 Mrs. Nancy Dora Hale Costello Grantsville, Utah Los Angeles, California Mrs. Rosa Ann Neal Howard 102 Mrs. Amanda Crum Angle Monterey, Tennessee Glendale, California Mrs. Verna G. Schiffman Mrs. Annie Katherine Erickson Benson Ogden, Utah Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Bennett White 100 Mrs. Annie Elizabeth Olson Larsen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Minna Vernettia Twitchel 90 Mrs. Ellen Rigby Brown Spokane, Washington Centerville, Utah 99 Mrs. Frances Hammond Burgett Mrs. Annie Kennedy Corliss Los Angeles, California Magrath, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Grace Stringham Colton Q7 Mrs. Anna Kerstine Nielson Busk Salt Lake City, Utah Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Amanda Lovina Smith Bird Cook. Mrs. Josephene Pickett Fawcett Salt Lake City, Utah St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann (May) Turner Crockett 96 Redlands, California Pat Evalyn Cluff McDonaid Mrs. Carrie Eliason Ogden, Utah Hagerman, Idaho 95 Mrs. Virginia Taylor Olson Mrs. Christine Jensen Ellefsen Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Effie S. Holt 94 Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Sandberg Salt Lake City, Utah Montebello, California Mrs. Mary Louise Goffe Larson Salt Lake City, Utah 93 Mrs. Hannah Encora Batty Follett Woodburn, Oregon Mrs. Emma Tillack Ovard Coaldale, Alberta, Canada 92 Mrs. Ellen Kapp Hansen Mrs. Magdalene M. Nelsen ne Schmidt Ogden, Utah Riverside, California Mrs. Ida May Briles Heryford Mrs. Susan Rachel Grant Taylor Red Bluff, California Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Gealt Monson Mrs. Mary Patterson Tooley Salt Lake City, Utah Rockville, Maryland Mrs. Isabelle Armstrong Starey Simpson Mrs. Florence Maud White Wallace Laramie, Wyoming Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Millesant Wheelock Wilson

Ella Jane Pond Warriner  
Mountain View, Wyoming  
Laurens, New York  

640 Relief Society Specials To Watla OOK WAL SC? He co? By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas  
Here is the newest volume in the Out of the Best Books series! Volume IV is the Relief Society cultural refinement course for 1968-69 and is geared to the theme: 'The World Around Us." Like previous volumes, this book includes literature from the pens of the greatest authors. This volume will make a fine addition to any home library. It will be appreciated and enjoyed by all the family. Order now for about August 28th delivery. $2.60 Surface mail paid anywhere in the world!  

SPIRITUAL LIVING TEACHING AID PACKET  
This packet of visual aids and pictures is designed to go with the 1968-69 Relief Society spiritual living lessons. $1.25  

DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, Calif. 92688  
Deseret Book Company: Gentlemen: 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY  
Enclosed please find check [], money order [7], I have an account, 2472 Washington Blvd., Ogden 777 SO MAIN ST. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA; please charge []. Amount $ For the above numbered items:  

1 2  

R. S. August Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah  
Put the magic of Sugarplum Land FROZEN PEACH JAM  
3 cups crushed peaches (about 2-1/2 pounds)  
5 cups sugar  
1 package powdered pectin  
1 cup water  

At a Sort and wash fully ripe peaches, remove pits and skins, and crush fruit. Measure peaches into a large mixing bowl. Add sugar. Mix well, and let stand for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Dissolve pectin in water; bring to a boil, and boil for 1 minute. Add pectin solution to the fruit and sugar mixture. Stir for 2 minutes. Ladle the jam into jelly glasses or freezer containers, leaving 1/2 inch space at the top. Cover the containers and let stand for 24 to 48 hours. Makes about 9 six-ounce glasses. Store uncooked jam in a refrigerator or freezer. It can be used in your meals Gish ere suggests this delicious, easy to make peach jam for a real family taste treat. Held for a few months in a refrigerator or up to a year in a freezer. If kept at room temperature, it will mold or ferment in a short time. Once a container is opened, the jam should be used within a few days.  

NOTE: If jam is too firm for serving when opened, it can be softened by stirring. If it tends to separate, stirring will blend it again.  

Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and I SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.  

The Relief Society Magazine