volume 55 June 1968 Number 6 MOUNTAIN MOTHER LULLABY The wind is coasting down the hill On long grass runners. (Sh— be still.) The loons are rocking on the lake. (You little owl, you're wide awake.) Time enough to be stern and tall, With the granite strength of a canyon wall; To lean to the storms and grow to be As firmly rooted as a tree. These are days of gentle things, Of marmots, squirrels, and humming bird wings Fanning your cheek in aspen shade, Of little rabbits, unafraid, Venturing out of mountain brush To follow you. (Hush baby, hush.) Gentle things will teach you how To love the earth as | love you now— As | love you now. —Peggy Tangren The Cover' |§ Ruins at Chiapas, Mexico Transparency by Camera Clix _ - Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Mount Moran, Wyoming Photograph by Don Knight Art Layout: § Dick Scopes Illustrations: & Mary Scopes 401 From Near and Far The subject matter, fiction, special and general articles, suggestions for home and family living, which enrich the Magazine, are a great help and inspiration to all of the sisters. I had the privilege of serving our local Relief Society for one year as secretary-treasurer, and I now hold the position of visiting teacher message leader. I love Relief Society and wish to express my appreciation for the leadership which makes the Magazine so wonderful. Evelyne Bean Duncan, Bozeman, Montana The Magazine is wonderful and the sisters up here in Canada really love it. Many who are nonmembers read the Magazine and love it, too. It is a great help in missionary work. Helen D., Toronto, Relief Society Supervisor. Canadian Mission May we express our appreciation for a fresh re-telling of a beloved story, "A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star," in the September issue of the Relief Society Magazine. We found it so inspirational that we plan to adapt it, along with a poem by Margery S. Stewart, "A Song of Wheels" in the January 1963 issue of the Magazine (the poem to be set to music), for narration, to be used at our visiting teacher convention in May. Maida Moody, President, Canoga Park Stake Relief Society, Topanga, California Three times in recent months, I have found pictures of Relief Society groups with whom at one time. I was associated. That is another wonderful feature of the Magazine. Dorothy C. Robinson, Orem, Utah We are happy to report that our Spanish sisters are enjoying and putting to use the Spanish Relief Society Magazine. Thank you for this wonderful gift to them. Our goal this year is "A Relief Society Magazine in Every Home," and El Paso Stake is working for this aim. Lavinia B. Jackson, President, El Paso Stake Relief Society The arrival of my Relief Society Magazine is always special to me— the March 1968 issue even more so. "A Summer's Day" by Ruth Nicholson Pepper of Cornmal East, New South Wales, Australia, took me right back into my childhood. We lived and grew up a few miles along the coast from Sister Pepper's home at Fairmeadow. The blackberry picking and the fear of snakes were as much a part of summer as were the sparkling sun and the golden beaches. Thank you for a touching trip into an almost forgotten memory. Marjna Schrader Buxton, Oregon I was thrilled to read the article in the March Magazine "How Relief Society Came to Me" by Rexme Eagar. She is a lovely person and it is a blessing to associate with her because of her outlook on life. She has eleven children and is a lovely mother. Shirley Loveridge, Orem, Utah In the article "Refreshments for the Holiday Season," by Zola McGhie in the November issue of the Magazine, cider is mentioned as a principal ingredient in two recipes. The cider sold in England is alcoholic, and so most of our sisters would not use cider, but would use, instead, a non-alcoholic apple drink. Doris M. Stevenson, Nottingham, England Through reading a copy of The Relief Society Magazine which my friend receives, I enjoy it so much I would like to become a subscriber. In so many respects it meets the needs of women everywhere. The religious articles are enlightening, the poetry inspirational, the recipes add variety and spice to family meal planning, and the family guides have something new to offer each month. Although I am not a member of the Church, I feel that the Magazine has something to offer all women. Lois Eiss, Forestville, Connecticut

The Relief Society Magazine volume 55 June 1968 Number 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 404 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay 407 Elder Alvin R. Dyer Made a Counselor in the First Presidency 408 Elder Marion D. Hanks Called to Be an Assistant to the Twelve 409 Elder Hartman Rector, Jr. Appointed to the First Council of Seventy 410 Elder Loren C. Dunn Appointed to the First Council of Seventy 411 The Heavy Hand With the Whip-Cream Touch Lillian Y. Bradshaw 425 Australia—An Island Continent in Bloom Wealtha S. Mendenhall 436 Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine Irene W. Buehner Fiction 421 The Pickle Booth Frances C. Yost 449 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 3 Ramona W. Cannon 457 General Features - 402 From Near and Far 417 Woman's Sphere 418 Editoriali—The 138th Annual General Conference 457 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 480 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 420 Flower Gardens Grace Her Home—Tillie Pearson 435 South African Mission Eleanor A. Badger 439 Cactus Radiance on Desert Dunes Claire W. Noall 440 Wild and Cultivated Gardens 442 A Quilt For a Queen Jean S. Groberg 444 Fashion Says Maxine Grimm 445 An Old Trunk Can Be Rejuvenated Olive W. Burt 447 Chestnut Trees (Paul Cezanne) Floyd E. Breinholt Lesson Department 464 Homemaking—The Life You Save Mary Ellen Edmunds 468 Spiritual Living—Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Rey W. Doxey 470 Visiting Teacher Messages—Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Alice Colton Smith 471 Homemaking—Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Celestia J. Taylor 473 Social Relations—Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Alberta H. Christensen 475 Cultural Refinement—Preview of Lessons for 1968-69 Poetry 401 Mountain Mother Lullaby Peggy Tangren To My Missionary Son, Gay N. Blanchard 416 Summer Shower Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn 424 Portrait Alice Morrey Bailey 477 When One Must Die Christie Lund Coles 478 Snail Ethel Jacobson 478 Endurance Catherine B. Bowles 480

SIR THOAY CONGRATULATIONS June 23, 1968 » The world-wide sisterhood of the Church takes the opportunity on this June day to wish a happy birthday to Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our Prophet, David O. McKay. It was ninety-one years ago that her father proclaimed that she was a "ray of sunshine," and she would be known as "Ray." Sister McKay has been a ray of sunshine and a ray of hope to all who know her personally, and to all who glean strength from knowing her as the wife of the Prophet. No one could be more qualified to give advice on being a wife and mother than she whom we all admire. Through joyous, sunny days and through days of shadows she has maintained her inner strength and won happiness.

Following are a few selections from a talk she gave to the Brigham Young University women which have meaning to every Latter-day Saint woman:

ATTITUDE OF HUSBAND AND WIFE TOWARD EACH OTHER

There are many qualifications that a woman should have to be a good wife and mother, but the most important is patience—patience with children's and husband's tempers, patience with their misunderstandings, with their desires, with their actions. Even though girls associate with men in courtship, they do not understand men, which is one great cause for disagreement, heartache, and misunderstanding. If only women would understand that "Man's love is of man's life a thing apart; 'tis woman's whole existence." Men are so different that it becomes woman's artful duty not only to study but also to adjust.

Peace in the home is really woman's responsibility, and if she wants happiness, she must work for it—yes, and pay for it, too—by being at all times kind, loving, self-sacrificing, ready to help, ready to serve, in fact, loving to do anything the head of the house desires because his desires are also hers. And she must always remember that wisdom is made up of nine-tenths silence and one-tenth brevity.

404 Woman of the Year Award, April 21, 1966. Courtesy Deseret News Church Section June 1968

Gloom pushes people away from you. A sure way to bring gloom is to show that your feelings are hurt. You cannot live long with any human being and not have something come up to irritate you. "Offense we must expect. The question is what to do with it when it comes." And although we cannot help being hurt, what we can help is showing that we are hurt.

Nine times out of ten when "hubby" hurts our feelings, it has been unintentionally or without understanding of the wound he made; and if we will simply keep the harsh word unspoken, keep smiling, and go about our business, the whole matter will disappear. But if we fuss every time we are bruised, irritation begins, and the separating process goes on.

Another thing that causes irritability and quarreling is for the wife to criticize her husband. He cannot endure criticism. It stifles love...

With the Latter-day Saint marriage comes the understanding that man with his priesthood will stand at the head of the family. Some women are not willing to take a subordinate position.... It is impossible to teach respect for authority if the husband is belittled before the children. If a man is worthy to be at the head of the household, a wife should respect him and help him as the head.

ATTITUDE OF PARENTS TOWARD CHILDREN

If the mother does not have obedience when the child is very young, two or three years of age, she is going to have much trouble as the child gets older. Of all the ineffective ways of controlling children, threats are the most futile and harmful. A child should be taught to do ordinary things as a matter of course without being bribed.... Children respond favorably to praise. Home is the place where the parents must lead out in obedience, honesty, fidelity, truthfulness, courage, true dignity, and courtesy.... Treat all your children with equal affection.... Never deceive a child.

ATTITUDE OF CHILDREN TOWARD EACH OTHER

Amusement and fun are essential to peace in the home. Home should be made pleasant and agreeable. A silent home is a dull, sad place, and leads to melancholy. Music is soul-inspiring, and no money is thrown away for musical instruments. Many a mother nearly distracted by a fretful child has been able to soothe him by softly singing a song to him. The art of rearing children peacefully and pleasantly is the art of becoming a child again, of growing up with them.... "There can never be a noble nation of ignoble households, nor a joyful nation of unhappy homes."

The General Board wishes to take this opportunity on behalf of Relief Society sisters throughout the world to wish Sister McKay happiness in the days ahead. May she enjoy good health and all the blessings which she so richly deserves.

(Excerpts from "The Art of Rearing Children Peacefully," an address delivered to Brigham Young University women students by Emma Ray Riggs McKay, April 12, 1952. Published by the Brigham Young University Extension Publications. Used by permission of the Office of President David O. McKay.)

406 Elder Alvin R. Dyer

First Pres
At the Saturday morning session of the 138th Annual General Conference, April 6, 1968, Elder Alvin R. Dyer was sustained as a Counselor to the First Presidency of the Church. President Dyer was sustained as an apostle at the 137th SemiAnnual General Conference of the Church in October, 1967. He was an Assistant to the Twelve at that time. He became a General Authority in October 1958. He has served the Church in the missionary program for many years. He served a mission in the Eastern States, where he was a supervising elder. He then presided over the Central States Mission and, later, over the European Mission. President Dyer is married to the former May Elizabeth Jackson, and they have two children and four grandchildren. He is the author of a number of books which aid the missionary program. He has a great interest in The youth, having served in the General Superintendency of the YMMIA, prior to his call as an Assistant to the Twelve.

407

Elder Marion D. Hanks

Called to Be an Assistant to The Twelve
Elder Marion D. Hanks was sustained as an Assistant to the Twelve at the Saturday morning session of the 138th Annual General Conference, April 6, 1968. Elder Hanks has been prominent in Church and civic affairs, predominantly in the field of youth development. He was appointed to the President's Citizens Advisory Committee in 1957, and was the featured speaker at the White House Conference on Youth the past year. He serves as a member of the Board of Trustees at Brigham Young University, and on the National Council of Boy Scouts of America. Elder Hanks was called to the First Council of Seventy in October of 1953, and since that time has served diligently.

He presided over the British Mission, and currently serves as supervisor of the Orient-Hawaii Missions, under direction of Elder Gordon B. Hinckley. He has visited Latter-day Saint servicemen in Vietnam and in other areas of the Orient. Elder Hanks is married to the former Maxine Christensen, and they are the parents of five children.

Elder Hartman Rector, Jr., Appointed to the First Council of Seventy

At the Saturday morning session of the 138th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1968, Elder Hartman Rector, Jr., was sustained as a member of the First Council of Seventy. Prior to his appointment to this high and important calling in the Church, Elder Rector was serving as senior president of the 542d Quorum of Seventy in the Potomac Stake. His home was in Fairfax, Virginia.

Elder Rector was born August 20, 1924, in Moberly, Missouri, son of Hartman and Vivian Fay Garvin Rector. He was reared on a farm. In 1942, he enlisted in the naval reserve program, and, in 1945, he was commissioned a naval aviator with the rank of ensign. He presently holds the rank of captain in the naval reserve. He received his education at Murray State Teachers College in Kentucky, Mankato State Teachers College in Minnesota, the University of Georgia, and the University of Southern California.

Elder Rector was converted to the Church in 1952. He met twice with the missionaries in the fall of 1951 before embarking for active duty in Korea. Aboard ship he continued his study of the gospel, and was baptized by a fellow serviceman. A week later, his wife was baptized in San Diego. He had married Constance Kirk Daniel, also of Moberly, in 1947. Their marriage was performed in the Mesa Temple on May 21, 1953. They are the parents of seven children.

Elder Rector was ordained an elder in 1952, and a seventy in May 1956. He has served in many Church positions since his baptism. Sister Rector has also served in many Church positions, and is currently in the Potomac Stake Relief Society presidency. For the past ten years, Elder Rector has been with the United States Department of Agriculture, where he has been program and budget analyst in the office of Budget and Finance. On April 2, he was awarded the Secretary's Certificate of Merit for a survey he conducted of USDA activities in Mexico.

409

Elder Loren C. Dunn Appointed to the First Council of Seventy

Elder Loren Charles Dunn was sustained as a member of the First Council of Seventy at the Saturday morning session of the 138th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1968. At the time of his appointment to this high and important position in the kingdom of God, Elder Dunn was serving as First Counselor in the New England Mission Presidency. His home was in Natick, Massachusetts.

Elder Dunn was born in Tooele, Utah, June 12, 1930, a son of the late Alex F. and Carol Horsfall Dunn. He was educated at the Tooele public schools and Brigham Young University. While at BYU, he was center on the basketball team from 1949 to 1953. He was graduated with a degree in journalism and immediately left for a mission to Australia, where he was a counselor in the mission presidency. Upon returning, in 1956, he served in the United States Army in Germany. He was group leader of Latter-day Saint servicemen during this time. From 1958 to 1961 he was editor of the Tooele Transcript. He then went to Boston University where he received a Master's degree in public relations, in 1966.

In 1963, he assumed the position of director of communications for the New England Council for Economic Development, which he held at the time of his appointment to the First Council of Seventy. Elder Dunn married Sharon Longden, daughter of Elder John Longden, Assistant to the Twelve, in the Salt Lake Temple, December 12, 1959. They have two children.

Elder Dunn became a counselor in the New England Mission Presidency in 1962. Sister Dunn has served as YWMIA president in the Boston Stake, stake Primary president, and was in the mission Relief Society presidency.

THE HEAVY HAND WITH THE WHIP-CREAM TOUCH

Lillian Y. Bradshaw

Herein lies the secret of getting children to work. To work or not to work—that is not the question. Whether or not our children like to work has never been our main concern. There will be work to do all their lives, and some work is just plain work no matter how you look at it. That they learn how to work in as many varied experiences as possible is our first objective. With experience comes satisfaction in results and an appreciation for the efforts of others. Breathtaking exhilaration in doing work takes many long, patient years really to develop, but come it will, and this is my ultimate aim as a mother, to teach my children the joy of work.

WORK WE MUST—WHEN DO WE START?

Start when very young! Let us assume you have already taught your child to eat food placed before him and to go to bed after prayers are said, and so, already, you have a good start on this road to obedience. But something happens when work is placed before a child, for even if it is made to look like play, it is still work, and he knows it. Accept it as such and call it "his work," and half the battle is won. You have a starting place.

Perhaps you will want to start earlier, with the picking up of toys or putting away of clothes. This we did, too, but somehow bed making always seemed to be the first thing that was really considered work. Whatever the work may be, consistency is of utmost importance. Now that Tommy is beginning to dress himself and can make the first loop in his shoelace, he is expected to make his bed each day. Yes, he has made it before now, many times, but with the idea in mind of "learning how." Now he must realize it is his work each day, his part of belonging to a family—and this we repeat often.

It is true, there is always a certain amount of balking at this point. He has his "druthers." But when he says, "No," I say firmly, but with love showing all over, "Yes," and then, taking his hand, lead him off to "his work." It will take many mornings for him to learn to make his bed when he first gets up, but from now on this will be expected. I have to keep reminding myself, "Remember, the heavy hand with the whip-cream touch." It is so easy to forget or let something else interfere. My aim is obedience, and this will soon follow if I am consistent every morning.

411

If he be quick to obey or more resistant, I cannot stress this first step too much, for once the "colt" is broken in (and some act like broncos), the way ahead is remarkably easy. He has learned that I mean what I say, and I have gained confidence in my own ability to have him obey. Rather an important step, don't you agree? Especially as the second and third child learn so much from the first, obedience is important. Look at the future you are preparing! My heart just aches for the parents who put the cart before the horse at this point. They wait until the child wants to work—before they expect him to do it consistently, and so they wait and wait and wait. And I understand how they feel, for a parent wants his child to be happy above all else, and disciplining yourself can often be far more difficult than disciplining those you love. But what of the future? This you must constantly ask yourself. Are his "wants" now, your "wants" for him ten years from now? Lasting happiness comes through obedience, and, small though it may be, this is a start.

GOOD START—BUT WHERE TO NOW?

I have often found myself envying parents of children who live on a farm. There are so many chores that have to be done that thinking up work must seem ridiculous to such a mother. But living in the city, either in an apartment or in a home bounded on three sides by fences and surrounded by a moat of lawn, does create its own interesting challenges. Though our challenges are different, our goal is the same: happy, obedient, skillful, appreciative children. All the things necessary to keep a home clean, orderly, beautiful—a haven of peace from the confusion just outside our doors—are listed and divided: setting the table, washing the dishes, scrubbing the floor, vacuuming the rugs, cleaning the rooms, ironing, washing, mending, cooking, dusting, etc. While the children are young, start by dividing even these responsibilities into small portions. Let me take one just as an example: ' Setting the table. We start with putting the tablecloth on the table and placement of the spoon. As each one in the family sits in the same place around the table each meal, Tom and I go around together, naming "This is Sue's place, this is Dick's place, this is Jeff's place, now where does Daddy sit?" Very quickly, Tom is naming them off almost singsong fashion by himself. Since he makes his bed in the morning, he will begin setting the table for the evening meal. Be sure one step is done many times and well, before beginning the next, always working as partners, at first. Later, will follow putting the chairs in place, glasses and additional silverware, napkins, flowers or centerpiece. As the second child comes along, the two will be working together very soon, the youngest beginning with spoons, but learning much faster because brother has already demonstrated that he knows how, the older one learning to be the leader. All work is broken down in this way until the child has learned, step by step, all the work in the home—boys and girls alike. There is no favoritism as to who can learn the most. It is so much easier and faster to do it yourself, and what a temptation it is to give in and do the work alone!

WHY? WHY WORRY?

Why all the effort, when it is much easier to do it yourself and not have all that confusion and bother—sticky fingers all over the woodwork, eggs dropped on the floor, vacuum cords cut in two! Oh, yes, I know. As I look to the future, I picture my son preparing his own food, cleaning his own room, washing and pressing his own clothes, whether it be off to college, on a mission, or as a husband with a newborn babe coming home. Mother won't always be able to be by his side. From experience, I also know my daughters are going to have to be full-time gardeners, parttime plumbers, and, occasionally, painters, and will want to find contentment and joy in a well-ordered home, with happy children, when business and Church assignments call their husbands away. Somehow, all this future has its present rewards.

Although I did not need that kind of help when they were young, now, when they are skilled, I do need their help very much. They are blessed now with that self-assured feeling of being needed. Being needed cures so many ills. Every other year we are involved in an early morning Seminary class, and sometimes there are other early-morning appointments for one or the other. At such times all of us can give support, and we shift the entire work schedule as early as necessary so as to accomplish all duties and still have breakfast together. Working together has given us time. Having breakfast together has become more and more important, as the older ones have work and activities outside the home that prevent us from always eating together in the evening. Kneeling all together in family prayer in the early morning is a blessing to all of us.

Of course, there is a great deal of give and take—each child being able to do all that the others can do, but the home, for the most part, is in order when the children leave for school. Do you wonder that I rise to call my children blessed when they make it possible for me to attend Relief Society, take a class to develop some hobby, work in my garden, read good books, time to teach and be with Tommy—this last year before he goes to school?

RESPONSIBILITIES — HOW TO ASSIGN

May I share with you something that has worked very well—an idea from the children. Our daily work schedule, of necessity, is rather rigid, each knowing his duties on Monday for the following week. But on Saturday, I list all the work to be accomplished, including outside work in the yard, and then I sprinkle in work that is more fun, like arranging flowers in the house, or making jello salad for Sunday, or laying wood in the fireplace. The list is long and fairly well broken down. Then they go roundrobin. Each selects his first choice—which is always the easy one, then the second choice, ending usually with the harder third choices, thereby each sharing in what they choose to call the "icky" jobs. Making their own choices keeps them from complaining that I gave one the hard work and the other the easy work.

No matter what method you use to assign work—write the responsibilities for each down on paper or cards. It will prove far more effective than merely telling, and you will be spared the "Oh, I forgot," routine.

DO WE PAY FOR WORK DONE AT HOME?

No—of course not. We are a family and it is our home—not my husband's and mine, our home belongs to all of us.

We all want it to be beautiful. It is a part of the stewardship Father in heaven has given to all of us as a family and we love taking care of it. With love, these are the thoughts we try to convey, when approached by the children. If for some special reason, however, one of the children needs to earn more money to pay for a birthday or Christmas gift or for some other purpose, then he may contract work of his choosing with his father and tell him how much he is willing to do it for. For instance—washing the car, polishing the silverware, or cleaning the garage.

HOW ARE ALLOWANCES INVOLVED? Not at all. Allowances are meant to teach saving and tithing. We give our children just enough allowance to teach them how to save and pay tithing. It is enough to pay for their needs, but not for all their desires, and so their appetite is kept keen in looking for extra work.

About the age of twelve or thirteen, but especially by fourteen, a boy needs to have work outside the home to keep him busy. Though the pay helps a great deal, of more importance is the experience gained in meeting the demands of those outside the home, getting a taste of meeting life on its own terms—responsibility: cutting the neighbor's lawn just right with edges neat and trim, watering the flowers and lawn during grandma's vacation.

AS newspaper carriers, our boys have learned why being a newsboy is a good recommendation for future jobs. Here again, though, I must discipline myself and weigh the scales. They learn that a job must be completed, no matter what the elements—snow, sleet, or rain. They learn to handle money, gaining strength with the test that comes as they pay tithing on a larger scale. Their mission becomes real as the goal comes closer.

OBEDIENCE IN COMPLETION — WORK BEFORE PLAY. Very early in our children's lives we start teaching about work with the story of the grasshopper and the ant. Remember how the grasshopper didn't want to work. He just wanted to fiddle all day and he kept singing, "Oh, the world owes me a living—oh, the world owes me a living," and finally was caught in the cold, starving. Now the worst thing that can be said about anyone in our home is that he is a "grashopper." This 'ter The Heavy Hand With the Whip—Cream Touch' is the lowest you can get, and each one knows the significance without a lengthy lecture.

When work is to be done and must be completed quickly, this is not the time to give a lecture on the value of work. RIGHT TO CHOOSE TO BE HAPPY Often the children have said we are taking their free agency away from them when we make them work. "Work you must—your free agency lies in whether or not you choose to be happy working," we tell them. Though learning to work in as many varied experiences as possible is our first concern, working with a glad heart is a close second.

To be happy, children need a reason for finishing their work. Remembering how good the swim felt at the "old swimming hole," after thinning sugar beets, our speaker at stake conference many years ago recalled how just the thought of the swim that would follow gave him that extra zest that made him work faster and with a high heart. It is really just another way of saying, put a goal at the end of any work. Especially when you are having a difficult time getting a job completed, try to think of good reasons why a son or daughter would want to finish the work. "After you clean the workshop, you will have time to work on your model." "When your ironing is completed, you might like to wash and iron your doll clothes." These reasons may not be the ones they prefer, but they will stimulate them into thinking why they want to get through quickly.

Satisfaction in completion ls heartwarming, but true exhilaration comes in the doing. Now they have found the joy in work. Once tasted, they will never forget it.

KNOW-HOW Perhaps of greatest importance is that of knowing the effort it took to do a piece of work develops a grateful, appreciative heart. I know of no other way to teach my children this attribute.

A WORD OF CAUTION There will always be new ideas. Don't be too quick to change if an idea does not yh! Wv TO MY MISSIONARY SON ", Wrap him in love in that far other where? I Gratefully, Father, | thank thee Ny For prayer. My fledgling has flown Half the world round— Far out of reach of my lullaby's sound... Fa, Far past the edge of a wild warning Cry.. - Far beyond sight of my hungering eye.

How can I share my war Take on its wings the thread of my strength And bind him secure in its infinite length. Let its sure pulse keep a rhythm between That sings of my faith in him, steady, serene. Bring through its channels his message to me.. That our hearts may be one In dimension with thee. What you are doing is bringing success. Flitting from one idea to the next will only bring frustration to you and your family. When what you are doing dulls a little, then search for that idea you have stored away. Keep your mind open, always weighing carefully all you hear, all you read. Ponder on new ideas, and then pray to your Father in heaven asking, "Is this best for my family?" Consistency, with love, the heavy hand with the whipcream touch, will bring you success.

LOOSE DOO LLLEOLEEX ONC sh ows —Gay N. Blanchard Ramona W. Cannon Alice Randall (Wa We Ya Gesbhick Go Qua-Walk Around the Sun Lady), a Latter-day Saint of Mole Lake, Wisconsin, was honored as Wisconsin Indian Mother of the Year in 1967. A descendant of a long line of Chippewa chiefs, Mrs. Randall has been a leader among her people in developing arts and crafts, improving housing conditions, and in elevating moral and social conditions. Her children and grandchildren are gifted in music, painting, and dancing, as well as in various handicrafts. Mrs. Randall is an expert at beadwork, moccasin making, and the weaving of rugs. She is a meticulous keeper of records and has gathered and preserved the history of her people over several generations.

Anne Ehrlich is a collector of butterflies for scientific research in the field of heredity. With her husband, Professor Paul R. Ehrlich of Stanford University, she has traveled widely and has made a specialty of the butterflies of New Guinea.

Benedikte, Denmark's last unwed princess, recently became the bride of Prince Richard Casimir Karl August Konstantin Zu Wittigenstein Berleburg of Germany.

The wedding brought to Frendsborg Castle, north of Copenhagen, Queen Mother Elizabeth of Britain, the princess' godmother; King Gustaf Adolf VI of Sweden, the maternal grandfather; King Olav of Norway; King Constantine and Queen Anne Marie of Greece, and others of the royal families of Europe. Queen Anne Marie is the bride's younger sister.

Gina Bachauer, world-renowned pianist, is especially noted for her outstanding technique and "nobility of phrasing" in the rendition of Rachmaninoff's compositions. Miss Bachauer, a native of Greece, was for many years a student of Rachmaninoff, and traveled back and forth across Europe for her lessons during Rachmaninoff's concert tours.

Peggy Fleming, nineteen, of the University of Colorado, is the world's champion in figure skating. In February at the Olympic Games in Grenoble, France, Miss Fleming retained her championship rating and made a new record of 166.4 points, with Gabriel Seyfert of East Germany totaling 154.0 points, and Beatrix Schuba, of Austria scoring 153.2.

Federal Careers for Women, distributed by the Superintendent of Documents, United States Government, Washington, D.C., describes preparatory steps to follow before selecting one of the many careers in Government service. The Federal Woman's Award is described in detail in the bulletin.

Nursing Careers Among the American Indians (Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D.C.) outlines the wide field of service in the Indian Health Program and gives a resume of the personal and professional requirements for nurses in the "wide open spaces" of the Indian lands.

Mrs. Irene Porter, Roy, Utah, in cooperation with her husband, Clifford Porter, manages the H. And P. Custom Knit Company, which manufactures the official ski cap for the teams representing the United States in the Olympics competition. Handicapped workers are given preferred employment, and many women knit the caps in their own homes in the Roy area.

417 EDITORIAL

The 138th Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the one-hundred-year-old Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 5th, 6th, and 7th, 1968. Church leaders and members from many lands and many nations gathered to hear words of courage, counsel, inspiration, and everlasting truth. Testimonies were strengthened, anxieties lightened, and spiritual ideals illuminated.

The significance of Easter was emphasized as a time for a special recalling of the mission of Jesus and the pattern he established for men upon the earth. "Feed the Lord's sheep, strengthen one another, and strive for the spirit of the Lord."

Proceedings of the Conference were sent on the air waves by television, radio, and telestar to thousands of listeners, world-wide.

Membership in the Church was given as 2,614,340, a total for the stakes and missions throughout the world. Two of the General Authorities were advanced in positions of leadership and two new members:

Belle S. Spafford
Marianne C. Sharp

First Counselor:
General Board: Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Florence J. Madsen
Leone G. Layton
Blanche B. Stoddard
Alaine M. Young
Alberta H. Christensen
Mildred B. Eyring
Edith P Backman
Winniefred S. Manwaring
Elna P. Haymond
Mary R. Young
Mary V. Cameron
Afton W. Hunt
Elsa T. Peterson
Fanny S. Kienitz
Jennie R. Scott
Alice L. Wilkinson
Irene W. Buehner
Irene C. Lloyd

418 Elizabeth B. Winters were appointed to the First Council of Seventy.

Elder Alvin R. Dyer, who was ordained an apostle last October, was called to serve as a counselor in the First Presidency, and Elder Marion D. Hanks of the First Council of Seventy was named an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve.

Elder Hartman Rector, Jr., of Halifax, Virginia, and Elder Loren Charles Dunn of Natick, Massachusetts, were appointed to the First Council of Seventy.

The beloved President David O. McKay, now in his ninety-fifth year, presided at all the conference sessions and personally attended two of the meetings. His addresses to the saints were read by his son David Lawrence McKay.

In his counsel to the saints at the Opening session on Friday, President McKay established a spirit of reverence and rejoicing which continued throughout all the sessions. In speaking of the true meaning of Easter, he declared:

That the spirit of man passes triumphantly through the portals of death into everlasting life is one of the glorious messages given by Christ, our Redeemer. To him this earthly career is but a day, and its closing but the setting of life's sun; death, but a sleep, is followed by a glorious awakening in the morning of an eternal realm...

The resurrection of Jesus Christ is the most stupendous miracle of all time. In it stand revealed the omnipotence of God and the immortality of man.

418 Louise W. Madsen, Secretary-Treasurer

Von W. Peterson
Hazel S. Love
Fawn H. Sharp
Celestia J. Taylor
Kathryn Anne R. Gledhill
Verda F. Belva B. Ashton
Myrtle Zola J. McGhie
Alice C Oa J. Cannon
Lucile Lilia B. Walch
Elaine Lenore C. Gundersen
Marjorie C. Pingree
Darlene C. Dedekind

419 Tuesday evening, particularly those in their time of life and to the Word of Wisdom, should stand firm in resisting the very beginnings of temptation. Directing prayer is so effective in blessing the Saints and bade Ordinances of the Gospel.

FLOWER GARDENS GRACE HER HOME

Tillie Pearson, Lost River Stake, Moore, Idaho, raises many kinds of flowers as her hobby. She has planted every kind of flower she thought would grow in her climate. Her flower gardens are surrounded by different and unusual rocks that she has collected. She has served in Relief Society as a secretary-treasurer, and a counselor to four presidents. For thirty-five years she has attained one hundred per cent visiting teaching, often walking as far as six miles.

Sister Pearson is an inspiration to all who know her. She and her husband walked a half a mile each way to attend a Scout Flag-raising ceremony on the Fourth of July at six a.m. She loves the out-of-doors, and at eighty-two, is still able to keep her flowers beautiful. She is the mother of five children, grandmother to seven, and great-grandmother to three, all of whom are inspired by her attendance at all of her Church meetings, and her kind, helpful ways.

420

"Frances C. Yost: There's nothing like a shift in the garden on a hot summer day to make one appreciate the coolness and downright loveliness of the inside of a home."

Dear little Maggie McGee, age seventy-three, was speaking to the house itself. Maggie McGee asked the questions, and Maggie McGee gave the answers, and surely the little house of the Irish lady enjoyed the conversation.

"Who else is there to speak to these days? When a body lives alone as long as I have, she finds out a house gets lonely, too, when it never hears any laughter and song. A house needs conversation, and, believe me, my house is going to get it, if I have to do all the talking myself."

Maggie took off her bonnet and let the cucumbers she had gathered in her apron fall into the "he: ge - sink." Later, she would wash and dry them.

It looked as if there were enough for a nice batch of bread-and-butter pickles. "Later, this very day, I'll see them shining, pretty and lovely, like emerald jewels, in glass jars. Sure, and I will. And when the date for the Relief Society bazaar is set, why I'll make my usual contribution of a dozen full bottles. That I will. How many years has it been since I started contributing pickles instead of handiwork?" "It has been five years this coming bazaar," Maggie answered herself. "It was the very year the doctor warned me that I'd have to start preserving my eyes or they would not be seeing me through. It would break my heart if the time came when I could not enjoy the beauty of my surroundings. And it would make me feel equally as miserable, if I were not able to make my contribution to the annual ward Relief Society bazaar." 421 June 1968 Ding! Ding! "There's the telephone begging to be answered. It's a good thing I came in just when I did, or who would have taken the telephone off the hook?" "Hello! Maggie McGee speaking." "This is Sister Clayson calling. How are you today, Sister Maggie?" "Fine as a frilly petunia on a sunny day, President Clayson." "I'm so glad you are well, Sister Maggie." "Can't remember the time when I wasn't, President Clayson." "The Relief Society would like to ask a special favor of you, Sister McGee, if you feel you are up to it." "Would be glad to do anything the sisters would ask of me, if it doesn't require taxing my eyes." "We wondered if you would make extra pickles for the bazaar?" "Td be glad to. And what type would you be wanting?" "Sister McGee, we want you to make your regular bread-and-butter pickles. But we want an abundance of them—perhaps fifty jars." "Fifty jars, President Clayson! Why it would infringe on the room of the cooked food goodies." "This year, Sister Maggie, we wanted to have a pickle booth." "A pickle booth?" "Yes, your pickles go over so well that instead of crowding them in with the cooked foods, we wanted to feature them in a booth by themselves. Now, we want you to be in charge of this booth. You can decorate it as you like. If you need help, you can ask anyone you desire to help you." "That probably won't be necessary; land sakes, I have more time on my hands than most folks. But if I need some help, you can be rest assured that I'll be asking for it." The summer wore on, and every day Maggie McGee picked the cucumbers that were ready in her garden. Before the sun dropped in the west, the cucumbers were miraculously turned into delicious pickles placed in uniform pint jars. How many jars of pickles? Maggie McGee hadn't had time to count them. But there were plenty to line a tiny booth, that was for sure. Now autumn reigned in all her golden glory, and the day for the bazaar had arrived. Relief Society sisters were busy arranging booths laden with handiwork and baking. In the most central location stood the tiny pickle booth, which was a sheer delight to behold. Maggie McGee was good at anything she put her active, gnarled old hands to. Now she had turned artist to decorate her little pickle booth. An arch framed the little booth, and she had designed a sign to go at the center of the arch. Two green cucumber men were holding up a sign which read "Pickle Booth." The pickle booth was decorated with white paper on which Maggie McGee had drawn all sorts of vegetable people, with tiny pin legs and arms, and with pretty faces showing smiling features and laughing eyes. Each picture, whether it was a tomato, cauliflower, or onion, looked good enough to eat. Although the booths for the bazaar were all lovely and held people's interest, the pickle booth stood out like an emerald isle jewel of interest. As the Relief Society sisters passed by to their own assignments, they would say: "Put my name on a jar of pickles, Sister McGee." Then someone else would pass by and say: "Put my name on a jar of pickles, Sister McGee." Now that Maggie McGee had the pickles made, the drawings done, and the booth completed, and she had a little time to relax on her little stool in her pickle booth, she started wondering. Were the sisters just trying to make her feel happy? Had she made so many jars of pickles they were afraid they would not be sold, and they were afraid she might feel bad? Were they just helping out to salve her feelings? "If anyone else says, 'Put my name on a jar of pickles,' I'll." "Put my name on a jar of pickles, Sister McGee." "I'll—will do it." And she did. Maggie McGee's eyes were rather tear-dimmed as she wrote the names on the slips and pasted them on each bottle. She kept telling herself that the money went into the Relief Society fund. It wasn't as if she were selling the pickles for herself. Of course she didn't have a lot to live on, but the Lord provided the necessities of life for her, so she didn't need money, though she would like to travel a bit. The crowd at the pickle booth passed in a steady stream as the bazaar progressed during the evening. Many bottles of pickles passed over the counter. Many more were tagged ready for pickup when the bazaar ended. Still, there remained a large supply of jars of pickles on the shelf behind her. Yes, she had overdone the pickle business. "If they don't sell tonight, they'll keep." Maggie McGee sighed and shrugged her shoulders. But the selling continued. Maggie had a moment to look up and around. Who was the strange man walking across the hall with President Clayson? Why were they coming directly toward the pickle booth? What could such a distinguished man be wanting? "Mrs. McGee," President Clayson began. Why, she always called her either Sister Maggie or Sister McGee. Why the formality? "Mrs. McGee, I want you to meet Mr. J. R. King of the King Food Corporation. He wants to sample your pickles." Maggie McGee smiled. "Sure and I'm glad to meet you, Mr. King." Others bought the jar on face value. They did not require a sample, a taste. But it takes all kinds to make up a world, she thought. "I am sorry that I do not have a spoon, nor some bread and butter for tasting. But you are welcome to have a full jar to take on your way, sir." "I brought over a spoon from the kitchen, Sister McGee, and a plate with a slice of bread and butter." Mrs. Clayson was smiling her reassurance. 423 June 1968 The crowd seemed to be watching what took place at the pickle booth, but they kept at a distance, as if this were a most important event, and they did not wish to spoil it.

Mr. King unscrewed a jar. He spread the pickles generously on the slice of bread, and put it to his mouth. It reminded Maggie McGee of a hungry boy made suddenly happy with good food. After several large bites, Mr. King spoke. "Very good! Simply delicious!" "Sure and I'm glad that you like them, and would you like to buy a jar from the society?" "Mrs. McGee, I might as well get right down to business. I am always searching for new foods. Especially am I looking for new pickles. That is my business, you know. I want your recipe." "T'll be glad to share it with you. Most folks are sort of lazy when it comes to making pickles. They prefer to pick up a Jar ready for the table. But if you wish, you're welcome to my recipe. [It is my own, you understand?" "That is what Mrs. Clayson told me. You have originated this bread-and-butter pickle?" "Sure and I did." "We pay quite well for a new 'You needn't sir. I haven't given it out, but I'm not one to be selfish." "It isn't just the recipe we pay for. I want you to go to Chicago and oversee the making of the pickle in our factory; the first batch, that is. The trip is paid both ways, and your expenses while in Chicago. You'll have a franchise on the recipe— royalty on every bottle sold, you understand?" Maggie McGee didn't exactly understand. But she had always wanted to travel. She hadn't left the valley since she came from dear old Ireland as a child. If Mr. King was willing to pay her way to Chicago so she could show them how to make her pickles, she could hardly pass up such an offer. "Would you be willing to sell your recipe under these conditions, Mrs. McGee?" "Tt's the luck of the Irish and the blessings of Heavenly Father, and I'm glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. King. I think that I shall enjoy a trip to Chicago, and I'm free to leave at any moment you would be wishing for me to do so." Maggie McGee's smile was her nicest Irish smile. Mr. King returned her smile with that "Little boy with bread-and-butter pickles" grin.

Recipe.

Raindrops To earth.
He SUMMER SHOWER @) Are silver words
Speaking from the high skies Of heaven, fragile links of love —Vesta Nickerson Faneeral 424

Or -
If Spring Be Late Mabel Harmer

Chapter 3
Maureen Taggart, a librarian, decides to go to Britain to do genealogical work, travel, and look over an estate in Scotland to which she is a joint heir. Just before leaving she meets Steve Madsen and is very much attracted to him. On board the boat she befriends Diane Curran. Both go to the home of Maureen's cousin, Bruce Taggart.

As Maureen awoke to a chilly November morning, her first clear thought was a yearning for the electric blanket at home. But I don't have it, she reminded herself philosophically, so Tl just have to add more clothing— night as well as day. She was sure that it would take years, if not a lifetime, to get used to this penetrating island cold.

Diane was already up and dressing. The girls had been offered separate rooms in the big house, but had decided to share a bedroom for warmth and companionship. "Why so early?" asked Maureen, curling up into a ball beneath the covers. "It's Still dark outside." "Mrs. Taggart is taking me to meet the Markham person. I must get there early before someone else lands the job. Anyway, it isn't nearly as early 425 June 1968 as it looks. I suppose that we are so far north here that there is less daylight in the winter."

"So we are," Maureen assented, venturing one foot out into the cold. "As for the job—from all they say, I doubt if you have to worry. Perhaps your real worry should be that you will get it." "T have to get it—as you well know," said Diane, emphasizing her words with a vigorous brushing of her light curls. "If I don't find something right away Sydney will insist upon quitting school so that we can be married. Of course, he has no idea how really short I am. His parents would always hold it against me, if he quit school on my account, and I don't want to start off with that handicap."

"And you're right, of course," agreed Maureen, taking the plunge into the cold room. "And, if Mrs. Markham proves impossible you can look for something better later on. Which reminds me that I had best get ready to do more looking. I found a few interesting leads at the Public Records Office yesterday, but it's rather different from my own library experience at home."

"Do you find this research at all interesting?" "Oh, yes! In fact, I find it quite fascinating. And so do many other people, from the looks of the crowds there poring over the books. As you know, I have a very definite purpose in tracing my family lines and it amazes me to see how many people are there doing research merely to trace family lines and ancestors."

"Perhaps they are hoping for another castle—such as yours." "Perhaps," smiled Maureen. "On the whole, I think it is just an urge, but a very fortunate one for those of us who can profit by their efforts."

Downstairs, they found only Catherine and the girls at breakfast. Bruce had left early for school and Mrs. Murch was out visiting. "At this time of day!" exclaimed Maureen. "Oh, the time of day means nothing to her, poor dear," said Julia. "She will have breakfast with her friend Mrs. Marble down the lane and help her to do whatever needs doing. There's always something. Of course, she will spread the glad news of our castle."

"Can't make too much difference, can it?" asked Maureen. "After all, the news was bound to get out sooner or later." "No," agreed Catherine. "It can't make too much difference. Most of our neighbors won't believe it anyway. They'll say, 'The Taggarts inherit a castle! Ridiculous!' and that will be the end of it."

"Oh, I hope not!" cried Kitty. "T am planning to impress my school friends ever so much. In fact, I hope that Mrs. Murch makes an awfully good thing out of it. I can't, in good conscience, do so myself." "Indeed, you cannot," agreed her mother. "Incidentally," she said, turning to Maureen, "we are expecting a visitor today who will be of interest to you—a Robert McPherson who lives on the estate. He is an artist and has some paintings on exhibition (Continued on page 451)

AN ISLAND CONTINENT IN BLOOM
Wealtha S. Mendenhall Former Member, General Board of Relief Society

a May I come into your home and visit with you about the island continent, Australia? In the Southern Hemisphere, in the southwest area of the Pacific Basin, some 1274 miles across the great Tasman Sea from New Zealand, lies the remote island continent, Australia.

My husband and I left California in 1952 for an extended tour around the world. We traveled on a luxury liner and leisurely sailed the beautiful blue Pacific, feasting our eyes on the sun-spangled waters, flying fish, cloud formations, stars, Moon, and the sunset in the evening sky. At the close of day, we were lulled to sleep by strains of soft melodies. What a relaxing, restful journey!

EARLY EXPLORERS

As a comparison, my thoughts turned to those early explorers and diligent voyagers of the sea, who sailed great distances across uncharted waters in open ships, with limited navigational instruments; and of their struggles to survive the elements, scarcity of food and water, sickness, and at times, mutiny. Many of them died and were buried at sea, while others bravely struggled onward, determined to reach their destination.

Among these was Louis Vaes de Torres—the Spanish officer after whom the Torres Strait, which flows between Australia and New Guinea, derived its name. This was sailed in 1606. Captain Wilham Jansz and some of his crew members of the yacht "Duyfken" were successful in reaching the Australian shore; but they were met by the rich chocolate-brown skinned, dark-haired early inhabitants of that land—the Aborigines—who at that time were not blessed with an abundance of hospitality. Australia was, to the Aborigine, his grounds, his place to live undisturbed. The privacy of his small lean-to or hut type home, made of branches or a combination of wattle and daub, had not been infringed upon before.

The vast plains were his to roam freely with his dingoes (dogs), woomeras (throwing sticks), boomerang (angular throwing stick), and nets, in search of food—(wallabies, fish, kangaroos, wild herbs, roots, and fruit). In 1916, the commander of the "Rendelghit," Dick Hartog, reached the coast. For later, a round platelike marker with such an inscription on it was found attached to a post.

In 1642, that well-known Dutch navigator, Abel Janszoon Tasman, sighted the western coast of the island which is now known as Tasmania. This lies approximately 140 miles off the southern coast of Australia, and is today one of her six states. Other great explorers, many whose names are not known, preceded these, and there are interesting records of those who followed, including that heroic and colorful voyager, Captain James Cook.

In 1770, he dropped anchor at Botany Bay, and long colonies developed. Then came the birth of States and Territories. At present, six States and two federally controlled Territories occupy this area—the land down under.

GOVERNMENT

The six States are: Western Australia, South Australia, Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, and Tasmania. The Northern Territory is nestled between the first three states mentioned, and occupies approximately half a million square miles. The Capital Territory is situated in an unique area, for it was created solely for the purpose of housing the federal capital, Canberra. It lies between the States of New South Wales and Victoria. The affairs of the continent are administered by the Commonwealth Government at Canberra. The Governor General represents Queen Elizabeth II. The Prime Minister and his appointed cabinet and the elected members of Parliament direct the affairs of the nation.

Australia is locked between the Timor, Arafura, and Coral Seas from the northwest to the northeast; the Indian Ocean on the west; the Pacific Ocean on the east; and the Tasman Sea on the southeast. As we toured this young but vast domain, we realized just how accessible it is for oceangoing vessels with their cargoes of imports such as machinery, manufactured goods, oil, and other required essentials; also for outgoing steamers loaded with exports such as wheat, butter, metals, meat, wool, and wool products from this productive continent to other parts of the world.

THE COUNTRY AND THE 'CITIES

This great expanse of water stretching far away into all horizons is not used for industry alone, but to provide wonderful fishing for the ardent fisherman, plenty of water for swimming, surfing, sailing, and regatta events. It leaves behind many sparkling white sand beaches such as Bondi Beach—famous for sunbathers, spectators, and for little children who build their sand castles in the air.

The Australian people enjoy the outdoors and are avid sportsmen. Several international records have been won by citizens of the Australian Commonwealth. We all know of their outstanding tennis players, their horsemanship, how adept they are at hockey, cricket, rugby, golf, and bowling on the green.

SYDNEY

Sydney, the capital of New South Wales, is that State's largest city. New South Wales was the first of the States to be settled and is home to around 2,500,000 inhabitants. I recall my first glimpse of Sydney Harbor. It offers a bird's eye view and is a most breathtaking picturesque sight. I could readily see why many people have said, "This is the most beautiful harbor in the world." Stretched out beyond the harbor mouth is the charming city, Sydney. Protruding outward are the lush green tongues of populated lands in their coats of many colors. At dusk the setting sun sheds its rays of rainbow hue variations over the waters, there to mingle with the flickering reflections of lights from homes, shops, and streets. This forms a mosaic of living jewel-like splendor which reminds me of Australia's precious gem—the opal—in its fiery dress.

Opals are found to a great extent in South Australia and New South Wales. I was also impressed by the steel-arch bridge which extends gracefully across the harbor.

CANBERRA

I was more than impressed by the newness and simple beauty of the capital, Canberra. The wide open tableland at the base of the Australian Alps no longer basks in its look of yesteryear, but has emerged, according to the design of Walter Burley Griffin, an American architect, into the unique and impressive Canberra of today. Much of the bush and also the barren areas have been developed into landscaped gardens and parks. Streets are lined with brilliant yellow wattle and other lovely plants and flowers. Modern homes have been built and are surrounded with carpets of green grass.

We find at Canberra the Federal Parliament House, Government buildings, museums, and a man-made lake, a thing of beauty. In the new city (and I say new because work did not commence on it until about 1913), we find the Academy of Science, which is a great help not only in the development of Australian lands but also those of other countries.

VICTORIA

Melbourne, the capital of the state of Victoria, is one of my favorite cities. This metropolis has a lovely setting, as it was born on the green banks of the River Yarra, and its sprawling Dandenongs, dressed in forest and fern, furnish its eastern landscape. Melbourne has blossomed into the second largest city in Australia, and together with Sydney, the two cities have within their boundaries more than one-third of Australia's 11,000,000 population.

In the United States on Thanksgiving Day, the people pause to give thanks to their Heavenly Father for the bounties of life and for their many blessings.

In Queensland, the second largest State in Australia, and one of the most prosperous, a series of festivals is planned and conducted yearly in appreciation of the many blessings received. These industrious people celebrate the successful harvest of maize, apples, sugar, tobacco, grain, pineapple, flowers, and other items. The festival in Southern Queensland, when the apple trees are in full bloom and flower arrangements adorn the homes, hotels, shops, and streets; and the flower festival in Toowoomba, when flower gardens are a maze of color, are indeed unforgettable sights, a glimpse of peaceful beauty in color. Queensland falls mainly in the tropical belt, thus mother nature is liberal with her blessings. The largest coral reef in the world (the Great Barrier Reef) stretches about 1250 miles along her coast in the Coral Sea. Brisbane, a most beautiful city, is the State's capital.

TASMANIA

The island of Tasmania is the nation's smallest State, but offers a fascinating variety of scenery, ranging from the Russell Waterfalls, in the Mount Field National Park, to the peaceful quietness of Lake St. Clair at the base of Cradle Mountain. At apple blossom time, the sweet spicy perfume from the productive valleys of Huon and Derwent is wafted through the air. How majestic is Mount Wellington as it stretches upward, ever hovering over and making a green backdrop for the capital city, Hobart. A delightful climate and an ample supply of water greatly aid the crop yield in this area. In Tasmania, we find a touch and certain charm of the past, as well as a modern and progressive present. The handsome public buildings, homes, and gardens bespeak the enterprising spirit and the busy wharf.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA

Whether one desires solitude and freedom from rigid routine or the hustle and bustle of city life among an enthusiastic, friendly people, it can be found in Western Australia. This State occupies one-third of Australia's land (or a million square miles) and has about three-quarters of a million inhabitants. Here, large areas of land are being brought into productivity yearly, and steps are being taken to harness water wealth for the good of the land and her people. The well-organized air service, not only in Western Australia, but throughout the continent, has shrunk the vast mileage until it is possible for people to cover these great distances in a short period of time. Thus, sheep and cattle stations, once isolated, practically reach the thresholds of each other's doors. They also have a very efficient Royal Flying Doctor Service which supplies medical aid to those faraway places, and, in case of emergency, flies patients to the hospital for needed treatment. Perth, one of the continent's most beautiful, sunniest, and prosperous cities, is the capital of Western Australia, and is located between the Swan River and the Indian Ocean. Perth has wide streets, tall buildings, an art gallery, a museum, fine shopping centers, well-dressed people, and is the home of the University of Western Australia. Kings Park, alone, comprises 1000 acres in the heart of the city. The people here are friendly and are proud not only of Perth, but also of their State.

SOUTH AUSTRALIA

If you are sightseeing in South Australia, I recommend the leisurely climb up the wandering pathway, through lush mountain scenery of the Mount Lofty Range to Morialta Falls—a waterfall of exceptional beauty. As one rests and becomes attuned to the splashing water, scenery, the various scents from foliage, trees, and flowers, a sensation of peace seems to be everywhere. How befitting it is to look down over the City of Churches, Adelaide, the State's capital, and see chapels and more chapels, as well as the well-laid out city, with its wide streets, avenues, hillside resorts, Koala Bear Park, Torrens Lake, beaches, gardens, factories, and the University of Adelaide, one of Australia's oldest universities, established in 1874. The main industries of South Australia are ship building, wool, wheat, and wine. Here we find large areas of arid plains, but the owners of the sheep and cattle stations are struggling to bring them into productivity in order to furnish more feed for livestock. The children living on these sheep and cattle stations, and in other isolated areas, do not attend school as do children in the cities, but receive their education through "The School of the Air," over a two-way radio which not only affords the children an opportunity to hear the lessons, but also to respond.

NORTHERN TERRITORY

The barriers and obstacles to the growth of this Island Continent in bloom have been overcome. The Church in Australia is firmly established. It has helped to build faith and spread the gospel through missionary work. Twenty years later, Andrew Smith, one of the first converts in Scotland, moved to Australia with his wife. In 1845 he reported to the Council of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which had been appointed by the First Presidency, to open a Mission. As part of his journey, Elder Charles W. Anderson, 24, New Zealand, was added to the Australian Mission. On October 1897, two separate Missions were formed, but new conversions did not come quickly. Wrote from "Mighty Missionary of the Pacific," by David W Cummings: "A Spiritual awakening is imminent in Australia!" President David O. McKay was made president to prepare for an expansion into major branches throughout the country. A spiritual "wakening as prophesied" and on July 3, 1955, the Mission was divided and the Southern Australia Mission was formed. In Sydney, the Lake Macquarie Stake was formed. Then the Newcastle Stake was Organized on October 28, 1960. The Melbourne Stake was Organized on February 23, 1966. And the Sydney Western Stake on May 14, 1967. Perth Stake was Organized November 28, 1967. Yes, in Australia, land under the banner of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we now aim an impetus of a highly cultured and impressively Christian citizens.

SYDNEY HARBOR

A view of Sydney Harbor, with the city in the background, and a view of the far reaches of one of the world's most beautiful and useful harbors. A view of one area of Sydney Harbor with impressive buildings in the background, and the Manly Ferry in the foreground. 

THE COAT HANGER BRIDGE

The "Coat Hanger" Bridge, a magnificent steel arch of which the Australians are justly proud.

BEGONIAS IN BALLARAT

A view of Begonias in Ballarat, approximately one hundred miles from Melbourne in the State of Victoria.

ABORIGINAL CHILDREN ENJOYING SUN AND WATER

Aboriginal children enjoying sun and water in the "Outback" in Southwest Australia.

LANDSCAPE IN FRONT OF THE MISSION HOME IN SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA

A landscape in front of the Mission Home in Sydney, Australia.

DURBAN BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS

Durban Branch Relief Society officers, left to right: Pat Pel, First Counselor; Pat Robinson, President; Renee Kee, Secretary-Treasurer; Maureen De Wet, Second Counselor. Three-tiered birthday cake at celebration of Relief Society anniversary.

RADIANT FLOWERS

Radiant flowers, always abundant in the subtropical Durban climate, add lovely decoration to the table.

ELEANOR A.

Badger, Supervisor SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION South African Mission Relief Society Mowbray Branch Relief Society officers, left to right: Margaret Park, visiting teacher message leader; Ivy Fourie, President; Philippa Harrison, Counselor; Maria Maritz, homemaking leader; Joyce Bester; Marjorie Woods. Second row, left to right: Betty Botha; Valerie Hubert; Marietta Maritz; Veronica Dallender. Picture shows a display of beautifully decorated cakes which were sold and the proceeds used as a contribution to the branch building fund. (Photograph by Dennis Woods) "OPEN THE DOOR" Irene W. Buehner, Member, General Board of Relief Society, "Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine." This was the theme chosen for the 1967 Relief Society Annual General Conference Magazine display. Five stakes were selected to prepare displays depicting the values to be found in the various sections of The Relief Society Magazine. These exhibits revealed the resourcefulness of the Stake Relief Society leadership and provided tangible evidence of the professionalism which may be achieved by sisters who work lovingly together. Most of the displays were also used in the local stake leadership meetings and proved a great stimulation to the sisters in encouraging increased participation.

GENERAL FEATURES Transparencies by J. M. Heslop East Millcreek Stake President—Quanta Howells; Magazine Representative—Lola Condie. A dark green felt cloth formed the background for this dignified portrayal of "General Features." The Mail Box poured out letters of testimony from "Near and Far." The "Birthday Congratulations" page was attractively framed. The "Editorial Page," "Woman's Sphere," and "Notes From the Field" were all pointed out in this impressive display.

438 June 1968

THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Pasadena Stake President—Jasmine Ballard; Magazine Representative—Rose Simper. A woodpaneled house, with Magazine-covered pillars supporting the roof, reflected the influence of The Relief Society Magazine in four generations. Miniature paper-maché family figures were so lifelike as to seem irresistible. A tiny handmade grandma sat busily knitting, surrounded by her handwork—a sweater, braided rug, and knit suit, all scaled to size. A petite mother is shown, taking an actual cake out of the oven, while baby is being tenderly consoled by great-grandmother. Magazine helps for cooking, sewing, cleaning, and handwork were all depicted in a delightfully whimsical way. Every detail was carefully worked out to perfection.

440 CACTUS RADIANCE ON DESERT DUNES From utter desolation, radiance springs when the nurture is right. Flamboyant beauty rises from the seemingly hostile sands of time. Some species in the plant kingdom say, or seem to say, "Here I am. Look! I have come into being. Life against death, when the rains speak. Brief, but all-giving, in exquisite form. Don't touch. My fragility is protected. Do not use the sense of feel except through sight. Live in my short moment forever through the memory of vision. You will never forget my scalloped cup on desert tracts in thorn and prickle. I am here. Stand your distance, but drink deep and full, forever to slake your longing for the exotic. I am fragility in the midst of thorns. Anything exotic spans but a passing moment of rare light, of translucent color, contour, cloud, or shadow. Ease the drought of level lands in the landscape of the soul, when the rains of the dunes bring me to floral space. I am needed. I am needed for the perfection and for beauty, in the processions of the seasons—in the radiance of time."

Transparencies by the Author

WILD AND CULTIVATED GARDENS Flowers and shrubs and grasses grow intimately and harmoniously together in the wild gardens of mountains and valleys. They make their own designs of color and spacing, of height and ground cover. They grow, in competition as best they can, reaching for the sun and sinking their roots into a soil, searching for food and water. Home gardeners and landscape artists may observe the natural gardens and evaluate the possibilities of using some of their patterns for the home grounds. Some gardeners work out precise and formalized designs of great beauty, and others combine a natural setting with some elements of planned arrangement. Many rock gardens, colorful and pleasing to the eye, are results of such combinations. Contours, color harmony, and providing for blossoms throughout the growing season, are items which gardeners—from the professional landscape artist to the homemaker—may well consider in thinking of the garden as a portrait in form and color and design. These principles would apply to all gardens, formal, informal, and rock gardens, and those gardens which simulate the wild design.

442 Formal design in the Portland, Oregon, Rose Garden. Note the open space of grass, the steps accented by carefully trimmed evergreens arched with yellow roses. Color is provided by massed rosebushes. The background of tall dark Douglas firs establishes the principle of contrast. Formal garden west of the Latter-day Saints Church Administration Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Greenery and a variety of color contrasted against the gray walls of the building. Sego lilies growing in a wild garden. For many years the women of Relief Society have looked upon the sego lily as an expressive symbol of the beauty and usefulness of the organization. When the pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley after their long journey across the plains, they found myriads of white-blossomed sego lilies festooning the foothills. The bulbs were also used as food. Rock garden, Salt Lake City, Utah, showing an artistic combination of some elements found in wild gardens, and evidence of a planned design in selection and placement of colors. Note the border of compact (spreading) lobelia (ultramarine blue) which accents the area of yellow blossoms (Basket of Gold—Alyssum saxatile compactum). A wild desert garden. Radiant against the stark landscape, the rich blossoms of dock decorate the sand dunes and reveal the triumph of plant life in an arid land.

Close-up picture, showing detail of the crown pattern in the center of the quilt

A QUILT FOR A QUEEN Jean S. Groberg, Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief Society The Relief Society sisters in the Tongan Mission recently had the opportunity of making a quilt for a queen! The occasion was the historic coronation of King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV of Tonga and his lovely wife Queen Halaevalu Mata'aho.

The king-sized "queenly quilt" was especially designed for the occasion, with a large replica of the Tongan crown and laurel wreath worked in fine quilting in the center of the quilt. The date of the coronation day was also worked into the pattern. A regal scroll work bordered the edges. The Tongan Mission Relief Society chose this beautiful handmade quilt to present to the Queen as a representative token of the ideals of the Relief Society organization, expressing their loyalty and support throughout her reign. She was also presented with some exquisitely fine and beautiful pieces of tatting made by Relief Society sisters. Queen Mata'aho graciously received these gifts and expressed sincere appreciation for them and admiration for the fine quality of work.

Another interesting coronation time activity was carried on by the Liahona Branch of the Tongan Mission. These sisters made dozens of Tongan dolls to sell to the tourists who poured into the little kingdom at coronation time. The dolls were dressed in typical Tongan styles, complete with miniature "ta'ovalas" and "kiekies," the woven mats and ornamental waistbands worn by the Tongans. The dolls were very popular and were all sold in a few hours. Many tourists taking home with them these cute reminders of their visit to the Friendly Islands read the little tags sewed into the dolls' clothes, "Made in Tonga by the LDS Relief Society."

Jean S. Groberg, Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief Society, presenting the quilt to Queen Mata'aho.

Some of the sisters who helped to make the quilt:

Tongan Mission Relief Society, fourth from right

Tatting pieces also presented to the Queen, displayed by tatting expert Laiana Folau and Sister Mapa.

Tongan dolls made by Liahona Branch Relief Society.

FASHION SAYS!
Maxine Grimm
Fashion says knees but we extend pleas To cover the knees, please!

As I started to write this article, I could not help but remember the complaints of Brigham Young concerning the length of women's dresses. He was lamenting the fact that they were so long that they gathered up the dirt from the streets. He suggested that they might be shorter—"... Do not be extravagant and cut them so short that we can see the tops of your stockings—[surely a prophet was speaking! ]—but bring them down to the tops of your shoes and have them so you can walk and clear the dust and do not expose your persons." (Journal of Discourses, Brigham Young, 12:299.)

Here I am, a century later, trying to design a dress to cover the knees when you sit down. At least in one respect Brigham Young would condone my efforts. This dress is handloomed, and he always stressed weaving and sewing and creative work. "Let the beauty of your adorning be the work of your hands." (Lbid., 19:75.)

Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts:
Model Kathleen MacKay

446
AN OLD TRUNK CAN BE REJUVENATED
Olive W. Burt

One of the little-recognized forms of extravagance is that of having usable articles stashed away and lying idle. It is a kind of wastefulness that would have shocked our pioneer forebears. Our grandmothers used everything; they let nothing go to waste. Scraps of cloth were pieced into quilts; rags were woven into rugs; empty cans were covered with scraps of carpet to make footstools; leftover foods were conjured into delectable dishes.

We need not follow their example exactly. Many things they used would be out of place in today's homes. But still most of us have many things stored away in basement or attic, in chests or dresser drawers that could be brought out and put to good use in even the most modern dwelling. Old trunks, for example.

Many a descendant of pioneers has an old trunk or chest which should have great deal of sentimental value. Often these have been badly damaged and have deteriorated over the years so that, though we cherish them, we keep them out of sight. Such a trunk or chest can easily be made into a decorative piece of which anyone would be proud.

I had such a small trunk in the basement, filled with odds-and-ends, better thrown away. I know this trunk didn't come across the plains with my grandparents, but it has been in the family ever since I can remember. Covered with a metal sheeting, silver-colored, with an overall design of leaves in black, it was badly rusted; the wooden reinforcements dirty and broken; the lock and handles gone. The inside was a disgrace.

Transparency by the author

447
"CHESTNUT TREES" by Paul Cezanne (1839-1906), French (Minneapolis Institute of Arts)
Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt Associate Professor of Art Brigham Young University

Each style of art had its inventor. Each artist believed implicitly in the importance of the truth for which he was searching. Each tenaciously clung to his concept—sometimes at great personal expense in other areas of his life. It has been said that great revolutionary leaders are men with a single and simple idea, and it is the very persistency and discipline with which they pursue this idea that endows it with power.

Paul Cezanne was one of these. In spite of his great desire to have his work accepted by the officials of the art world, and the public who rejected and often ridiculed it, he gave up trying to be accepted and pursued his single idea the rest of his life in semi-seclusion. Herbert Read, well known art critic, described this single idea as follows:

There is no doubt that what we call the modern movement in art begins with the single-minded determination of a French painter to see the world objectively. There need be no mystery about this world: what Cezanne wished to see was the world, or that part of it he was contemplating, as an object, without any intervention either of the tidy mind or the untidy emotions. His immediate predecessors, the Impressionists, had seen the world subjectively—that is, as it presented itself to their senses in various lights, or from various points of view. Each occasion made a different and distinct impression on their senses, and for each occasion there must necessarily be a separate work of art. But Cezanne wished to exclude this shimmering and ambiguous surface of things and penetrate to the reality that did not change, that was present beneath the bright but deceptive picture presented by the kaleidoscope of the senses.

Cezanne believed that even though each brick and timber in a piece of architecture is important in its construction it is the building as a whole we see. Likewise, in a painting each part must contribute to the whole. He thought that in all nature—the landscape, the still life, and the human figure—there is reality which exists in substance and is more than surface. He tried to get away from the decorative element and present what was real.

His struggle to do this was often very frustrating and he destroyed many of his paintings to try again and again. In the painting "Chestnut Trees at Jas de Bouffan" you sense that the artist was struggling with technical difficulties—that it was not easy. You notice how he broke up the surface into separate independent colors. These in turn serve to build an architectural structure which gives the appearance of solidity—of existing in space—of being real, a generalization about nature rather than a literal reproduction of nature.

'CHESTNUT TREES AT JAS DE BOUFFAN': by Paul Cezanne (1839-1906) - French
The Minneapolis Institute of Arts 449 June 1968

FASHION SAYS (continued from page 446)
Because fashion, at this time in many areas, calls for straight short dresses—by the way, Brigham Young said, "Create your own fashions and make your clothing to please yourselves, independent of outside influences..." pleat is inverted, with three pleats on each side of the center inverted pleat. When standing, the pleat appears to be an ordinary kick-pleat, but when you sit it spreads out like a fan over the knees. He also said, "As for fashion it does not trouble me, my fashion is convenience and comfort." (Jbid., 12:202, 14:21.) It should be ours also.

This dress is woven by hand with 20/2 cotton warp, honeysuckle design, with novelty cotton threads in the woof. I have always found a coat-dress wardrobe wearable and comfortable, but short straight styles present a new problem, hence the pleat. This pleat is a complete circle made into a pleated fan with stitches on the edge of each pleat on the under side, to keep the pleats secure. The circle must be cut through from one edge to the center to form the fan.

The center
AN OLD TRUNK CAN BE REJUVENATED (continued from page 447)
I scrubbed the trunk well, inside and out, with soap and water. When it was thoroughly dry, I went over the entire metal surface with aluminum paint. I rubbed this off to uncover the black design. Using a very small brush and black metal paint, I went over every design. This took a little time and patience—but only a few cents worth of paint. The portions that had always been black, I repainted in that color. The wooden reinforcements I painted first in a dull green. Then I "antiqued" them with a coat of black paint, quickly rubbed off. The "silver" rosettes and clasps I repainted with aluminum paint. I found among the odds and ends in my husband's workbox, a pair of old brass handles, which I put on each end. An old chain made a good catch-hold for opening the lid.

There are many ways to finish the inside of such a trunk. Some are quite lovely, but difficult. I like easy-to-do-jobs, so I purchased some quilted calico, black, with a tiny rosebud design. This I simply tacked into place, using rather large-headed tacks. They did not show against the black calico—and the work took only a very short time. I lined both lid and bottom, as both were badly discolored by age.

Now I have a small, attractive trunk in my bedroom, in which to keep, without crowding, my very best, hand-embroidered guest linens, or anything else that I wish to have handy.

450 (Continued from page 426)
In London. We are eager, of course, to hear what he can tell us about the property."

"Eager!" cried Kitty. "We are simply dying of curiosity. So be sure you don't get lost in the files and forget to come home in time for dinner."

"T'll be here," Maureen promised. "I'm probably just as eager as you to hear his report."

Catherine arose from the table. "Well, Diane," she said, "if you're ready we'll go and beard the lioness in her den." "Tm ready—for" said Diane.

They all put on their wraps and left together—Kitty for her school, Maureen to the tube to catch her train for London, Catherine and Diane for Mrs. Markham's.

The sun shone wanly through a light fog and Maureen could not help thinking back to autumn in Utah as she had left it, with the beautiful sights and smells of October. Had it really been as lovely as she now remembered, or was it the companionship of those last days at home that now made it seem so desirable? She had thought often of Steve Madsen—how well they had "hit it off," so to speak. They seemed to have so much in common and to enjoy each other's company so much.

She remembered with a glow of happiness the flowers he had sent to the boat and the two letters she had received since her arrival in England. In each he had mentioned that he was looking forward to her return.

In the city, the streets and buildings looked unusually gray. Anything," if Spring Be Late Now there was no sun at all. She thought back to some lines she had read long ago: "No leaves—no flowers—no sun—November." To herself she added, "Especially November in London on a foggy day."

For no very good reason, unless it was the weather, she stopped and bought some roasted chestnuts from a street vendor. She walked the few short blocks to the Public Records Office on Chancery Lane and hurried inside, hoping for light and warmth.

Yesterday she had returned the book, on which she was working, with a word to the librarian that she hoped she could get it again soon. To her great surprise and pleasure, she found the book on the same desk where she had been working and which had been reserved for her use. There was also a reminder that she would need a sponsor if she planned to work at the library for more than a week.

She was sure that Bruce would be able to fill that need, and she settled down to work on the line of Sara Martin, a seventeenth-century ancestress.

Butier a brief stop for lunch, she returned to her work with such interest that she failed to realize how the time had passed until she looked up and saw that the room was almost deserted. Glancing out of a window, she could see almost no daylight, although her watch showed the time only half after four. It shouldn't have been so dark even for London, she told herself.

Hurriedly, she turned in the book and put on her wraps. 451 June 1968

As she went outside, she was astonished to see how foggy the day had become. Another worker, just leaving, turned and said, "A regular pea-souper this, eh Miss?"

"T'm afraid so," she replied, adding to herself, "I'm almost afraid." Bania growing darkness, she hurried to the station and caught the next train out.

There were half a dozen passengers, besides herself, who left the train at Bahlen. She looked about anxiously to see if there was anyone she could recognize at all who might be going in her direction. There was no one and, within seconds, they had all disappeared into the fog.

It was so heavy that she could not see across the street. "At least I know the right direction for starting," she told herself. "How long I can keep going is something else again." She went on for a block or two, but couldn't be at all sure of where she was to make the turn towards home. Home, she thought longingly. True, there were fogs, at times so bad that planes couldn't land, but there was nothing like this. At home, too, she knew her way about in the worst of them. Now, she might wander for hours. Occasionally, someone passed by, and there was an automobile or two that crept slowly along, the driver evidently trying to follow the line in the street. She was rather sure that none of them wanted to stop and take on a passenger, even if she had dared to ask. She came to a turn in the street that she could feel, rather than see, was unfamiliar. She turned and started back again. At the next turn she hesitated. She hadn't the least idea which way to go. As she stood trying to make up her mind what to do next she saw someone approaching. "Can you tell me?" she began, but was interrupted by a familiar voice calling, "Is that you, dearie?" "Oh, Mrs. Murch!" cried Maureen. "Am I ever glad to see you. But how did you happen to come here?" "It was no happening, my love," was the reply. "I was fearful you might lose your way in this fog, so I came to meet you." "How wonderful! I can't tell you how relieved I am. I was becoming more frightened every minute. But how did you know when to come?" "Oh, I just guessed," she answered in a matter-of-fact tone. "If you hadn't been on this train I could have waited for another." Maureen took her arm and they headed for home. Poor, dear, foolish Mrs. Murch, she was thinking. Perhaps she had become used to meeting trains over the years in the hopes that Cynthia would be coming on one of them. Whatever the reason, Maureen was ever so grateful that she had come to meet this one. "I hope the family wasn't worried about me," she said. "Well, I rather think they were. Even one who knows her way about can get lost in these pea-soupers. Then, they thought there was a fair chance that you might have decided to stay in town. To be sure, they were so taken with this artist fellow that they didn't think too much about anything else. That would be my guess, anyway." "Oh, yes, of course! You mean McPherson, the artist from Scotland. I had forgotten that he was to be here tonight—and If Spring Be Late with news of the castle. I'm awfully glad that I didn't stay in town, although I most certainly would have done just that if I had realized how frightful this fog can be. If it hadn't been for you meeting me, I might have wandered about for hours. Unless I could have met another good Samaritan, that is." She was almost surprised to find herself presently standing at their own front door. When it was opened the scene of cheer and warmth was such a contrast to the bleak outdoors that she gave an involuntary gasp. A bright fire burned in the living room hearth, as well as one in the dining room on the other side. The family was gathered around the hearth, looking just as bright and animated as the blaze itself. They turned quickly to welcome Maureen. Catherine came out into the hallway. "We thought that you must have decided to remain in town when you didn't get here earlier. We couldn't imagine that you would try to come home in this fog." "I came only because I didn't quite realize the depths of your British fogs," replied Maureen. "Another time I shall certainly come earlier—or not at all. If it hadn't been for Mrs. Murch, I might still have been wandering about, completely lost." "We didn't know that she had gone out either," said Catherine, "or one of us would have gone with her. Do take off your wraps now and come in and meet our guest." Maureen did so as quickly as possible. Upstairs, she freshened her makeup and returned to the living room to greet "'our tenant," she thought with a whimsical smile. As the two men arose, Bruce said, "May I present Robert McPherson who rents our cottage, guards our lands and paints our landscapes—my cousin Maureen Taggart." McPherson clasped her hand and said warmly, "I'm so happy to meet such a charming landlady. I trust that you will be satisfied with my accounting." Maureen smiled. "I'm sure that I shall be. I had no idea that there was an account of any kind." "As a matter of fact, there are no accounts so far," he conceded. "But there well may be in the future. It will all depend upon what you want to do with the estate—or can do with it." "I'm simply dying to learn all about it," said Kitty. "Especially all of the elegant things in the castle so that I can impress the girls at school. Is there a ghost, for instance?" "To be sure," he replied firmly. "Every castle in Scotland has its ghost—the older and more decrepit, the better. I mean the 'castle,' of course, and not the ghost." Before we start on it," said Catherine, "do let us have our dinner. Cook has been making signs to me the past quarter hour. Then we can hear all about it at our leisure." On the way into the dining room Maureen had a chance to whisper to Diane, "What about the job?" "I took it, of course. I had no choice." "Would you have taken it otherwise?" "Perhaps," Diane gave a small shrug. "It's too soon to tell. Anyway, I worked all day. Just that alone, and under any conditions, gives me a good feeling." "Yes, I know." After dinner, they returned to the living room to hear more about their castle. As they settled down again around the hearth, Mr. McPherson said, "I suppose you know that it hasn't been lived in for at least twenty years. In fact, part of the wall on the northeast side is missing entirely." "But there must be a great deal left," said Julia. "Surely some of it could be made livable." Yes, indeed," he agreed. "Much of it could. There are a number of rooms in which the furniture still remains. There are cupboards and closets that have never been opened since the death of the late Lord Angus Taggart. I go through once in a while just to see that nothing is disturbed." "And do you ever see the ghost?" asked Kitty, wide-eyed. "Let me think, now. No, I guess that I have only heard him—or her."

Unless, of course, it was the wind I heard rattling the loose boards and tiles about." "No, indeed," Kitty insisted. "It has to be the ghost." "Very well," he agreed, "as you wish." "What about the grounds?" asked Bruce. "Is there any way that we might use them for profit?" "Oh, yes. Much of it is used now for grazing sheep—and some cattle. No one has paid for the privilege for years. You'll have to institute some very strong understandings." Bruce frowned thoughtfully. "Do you have any idea how much money it would take to put part of the place into some kind of condition so that a family could live there—just a few rooms, say?" "Oh, I should say a few thousand pounds, for a start." Bruce whistled. "A few thousand pounds! And I am a poor schoolteacher." "And I am a poor librarian," added Maureen, smiling. Suddenly, Mrs. Murch, who had sat by all evening saying nothing, as usual, broke the silence by saying calmly, "I have money. You're welcome to use that." No one paid very much attention. Catherine merely answered, "You're very kind, but you have a need for that money you have." "Well not all of it," said Mrs Murch. "It's been in the Bank of London all these years. And I haven't had to spend any by living here." "Thank you very much for the offer," said Bruce. "If we find that we can do anything with the castle, we'll call on you." She seemed satisfied with that, and the matter was dropped. "The talk then turned to MePherson's pictures and the exhibit that had brought him to London. 'I do hope that some of you can come up tomorrow and have a look,' he said. 'Many of them were painted on your castle grounds and would give you some idea at least of what it looks like.' 'Tomorrow is school for me, of course,' said Bruce, 'but I'd like to come on Saturday. It will be open then, I suppose.' 'And I have to work,' said Julia. 'Kitty's in school. So, how about you, Mum?' 'I have a meeting of the garden club to settle the past season's business. Anyway, I'll wait and go with your father on Saturday.'" "Not a soul free!" exclaimed McPherson, "I really am disappointed." "Why, there's Maureen!" cried Kitty. "She goes up nearly every day anyway. I'm sure she'll be delighted to go with you." Maureen blushed slightly at Kitty's candid invitation, but McPherson's face lighted up with pleasure. "Would you indeed, Miss Taggart?" "To be sure," she agreed. "I'd be most happy." "Good!" he exclaimed. "You are sure to enjoy the scenes of the castle—even though they are somewhat idealized. You may even enjoy seeing the rest of the exhibition. There are some very good artists appearing." "I'm sure that I shall enjoy all of it," she said. After they had gone to their room, Diane asked, "Well, what did you think of him?" "It was very interesting," Maureen answered easily. "It was rather fun to hear something about the castle from one who actually lives there." "Skip the castle! I want to know what you think of McPherson." '"He's very attractive," Maureen replied. "He is quite different from our American men, of course." "And you just might be interested in this bit of information. The gentleman is unmarried." "He is!" exclaimed Maureen. "I thought that would wake you up. I took pains to inquire. He's a widower with twins, seven years old—a boy and a girl." "My interest is still strictly in the castle," declared Maureen. "Okay. After your trip to town tomorrow, we'll hear if there is any change of heart—or interest." Maureen did not answer. They lay quiet, each thinking over the events of the day. For Maureen, the nightmare of the fog was almost forgotten in the pleasure of the evening and in the anticipation of a pleasant day on the morrow. It would be fun to spend a day in London and to see the exhibit with an artist who could explain the pictures to her. Just as she was drifting off to sleep, Diane said, "You know—wouldn't it be something if Mrs. Murch did have money—real money, I mean? Just imagine what it might be, lying in the bank all these years and drawing interest. And her living off the Taggarts all these years. Isn't life strange?" "Strange and interesting and full of surprises. But most people are awfully nice." "Even Mrs. Markham—I hope," sighed Diane. "Yes, there is hope that even Mrs. Markham will turn out to be a human being." "Is she really such a terror?" "No, not at all, really. She just expects her secretary to do all the work. She writes this syndicated column, you know, on etiquette. Evidently she figures that as long as she has made the contacts, the hired help can do the rest. She has shelves of books, and I had to find the answers to every question that came in. Anyway, it's a job, and I'm grateful. And while I'm drudging away, I'll think of you out seeing the glories of the art world with a fascinating stranger." "I just hope it's half as exciting as you make it sound," said Maureen. The warm glow in her heart made her feel that it might easily be just that. (To be continued) ——ae aes FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Portneuf Stake (Idaho) Former Relief Society Officers Honored Former officers of Portneuf Stake Relief Society, front row, left to right: Nellie C. Christensen, Secretary-Treasurer; Esther L. Bishoff, First Counselor; Dora B. Christensen, Second Counselor; Fern T. Hartvigsen, President. Present officers, back row, left to right: Helen H. McDaniel, Secretary-Treasurer Elda R. Nielsen, Second Counselor; Dora M. Johnson, First Counselor; Helen G. Toler, President. Sister Toler reports: 'At a recent leadership meeting the outgoing Relief Society presidency was honored for the many years of outstanding service they have rendered. A special reading about each sister was given, and each was presented a copy of A History of Relief Society. These sisters had served for eight years.'" Idaho Falls (Idaho) Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert —> "These Things We Love," February 26, 1968 Alice B. Jones, Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society President, reports: 'The theme for the concert presented by the Singing Mothers of our stake was "These Things We Love." The program was woven around showing love for the home, family, community, region, and ended with a patriotic section showing love for the nation.'

"The stake center was decorated with large bouquets of red and white ribbon roses, flags, and drums, accented with golden eagles. A large and appreciative audience attended. "The music was under the direction of Jolene Wright, stake chorister, and Florine Berntson, stake organist. (Both are seen standing, front row center.) Donna Pieper was narrator for the script written by Helen Romrell, First Counselor. May Schwendiman, Second Counselor, was general chairman. Eighty Singing Mothers participated and all felt that it was a most rewarding experience."

Ankara Branch
Kuwait Branch
Northern Mexican Mission, Monterrey District
Visiting Teachers Convention —> February 17, 1968

Beginning fourth from left, front row: Maria Dolores G. De Almaguer, President, Monterrey District Relief Society; Ada J. De Whetten, assistant supervisor, mission Relief Society; Juana G. De Vallejo, mission Relief Society President. Pauline M. Green, Supervisor, Northern Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: "We have had some very successful visiting teacher conventions under direction of Sister Vallejo. She presented certificates. Of recognition to all visiting teachers with one hundred per cent completion of assignments this past year, as well as Family Home Evening manuals." This picture is of the Monterrey District visiting teachers. This convention was held in conjunction with the district quarterly conference."

458

# Swiss Mission, Kuwait (Arabia) and Ankara (Turkey) Branches
Active in Relief Society
Members of the Kuwait Branch Relief Society, left to right: Loya Hullinger, President; Karon Curtis, First Counselor; Carol Cahoon, Second Counselor; Jane Warford, homemaking leader. These sisters are displaying Christmas wreaths made from IBM cards.

Members of the Ankara Branch, front row, left to right: Sermin Celibey; Barbara Knight, Linda Novakovitch; Tonny VanderHoeven; Carol Rogers; Helen Jonsson. Back row, left to right: Evelyn Analla; Phyllis Ames; Ann Schulz, Secretary-Treasurer; Roberta Peterson, President; Donna Woodland, Second Counselor; Mable Bird, First Counselor; Darlene LeBlanc, spiritual living class leader; Helen Penfield, social relations class leader.

Rachel W. Mabey, Supervisor, Swiss Mission Relief Society, reports: "We are proud of the branches of Relief Society in the Middle East. They are composed mostly of Americans involved in the oil business, government, and research. There are only four members in the Kuwait Branch Relief Society, but they are active and productive. In Ankara there are often visitors from the town who are impressed with the sisterhood and the work of the Relief Society. 'President Mabey and I had the opportunity of visiting the Middle Eastern branches recently, and we thoroughly enjoyed the conferences we held with the members there. And were impressed by their spirit and the work they are doing.'"

Scottsdale Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Concerts —> February 23-24, 1968

Cora O. Allen, President, Scottsdale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our chorus of seventy-five Singing Mothers presented a two-night concert, 'Let Freedom Ring.' It was an evening that listeners will long remember as they heard and watched the history of America unfold. Everyone was thrilled and inspired, and there was a renewal of love and pride in country as the program, through narration, songs, and slides unfolded commencing with the discovery of America by Columbus and highlighting important events in American history, reflecting the moods and strengths of the populace." The script, selection of music, and slides were written and correlated by Francille H. Hansen, stake chorister, who was assisted by many talented sisters. "The concert proved to be an excellent missionary tool, and a thrill to the participants. Many requests for repeat performances have been made."

Notes From the Field

4 St. Johns Stake (Arizona) Visiting Teacher Convention March 9, 1968

Burma S. Hamblin, President, St. Johns Stake Relief Society, reports: "We were very gratified to have forty-six per cent of all visiting teachers in our stake attend our visiting teacher convention. Winning the prize for highest percentage of attendance was the Ramah, New Mexico Ward, which is 110 miles from St. Johns." This skit, 'A Light Shining,' was presented under the direction of Lora Parker, visiting teacher message leader, with narration by Nellie S. Slade, social relations leader. Six wards participated in the singing part of the skit, under direction of Mary J. Sherwood, chorister, and Rozelda Wilkins, organist. We hope that the inspirational message of the skit will carry over into the visiting teaching program of the wards."

#4 Layton Stake and Layton East Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Combine For Spring Concert, March 8, 1968

Standing in first row of center section, left to right: Janice Dawson, narrator; Marianne H. Call, President, Layton Stake Relief Society; Florence J. Madsen, member, General Board of Relief Society; Ruth C. Moss, President, Layton East Stake Relief Society; Mary Lou Lewis, stake organist; Lahoma Lindeman, stake chorister.

Sister Moss reports: "The Layton Stake was divided a few weeks before the concert, so it was carried out on a combined stake basis." The theme of the concert was 'Prelude to Spring.' Songs and poetry which brought out the moods and beauties of springtime were used. Twelve choruses participated, each singing one number, directed and accompanied by the ward choristers and organists. The finale was sung by the combined choruses. Approximately 230 sisters participated. "An art exhibit was displayed in the cultural hall featuring the paintings of fifty sisters from the two stakes. Refreshments were served to more than 600 guests at the close of the concert."

461

June 1968
North Seattle Stake (Washington), Tenth Ward Quilt Making Project —> Left to right: Arta Coy, President, Tenth Ward Relief Society; Lula Y. Smith (inset); Catherine H. Roper, quilting chairman.

Wanda B. Bean, President, North Seattle Stake Relief Society, reports: "For the past several years, the sisters of the Tenth Ward Relief Society have made baby quilts as well as several large quilts. This year they have made forty crib-size quilts as well as several large ones. The latest large quilt to be completed is the Cinderella quilt in the center of the picture. This quilt was appliqued and embroidered by Sister Lula Smith, who is in her eightieth year and who served as president of Cache Stake Relief Society for seventeen years (1918-1935)."

Apo SOmMe: chanrs ye yeu!
Uintah Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention —> March 8, 1968

Norda G. Cook, President, Uintah Stake Relief Society, reports: "We held a very successful visiting teacher convention, with luncheon being served to over 160 guests." The theme for the convention was 'Happiness Is Service,' with tables decorated in keeping with the theme. A lovely program was presented. Bonanza, Naples Second, and Vernal Fourth Wards were recognized for achieving the highest percentage of attendance at report meetings during the year. Special awards were given to sisters for outstanding achievements in visiting teaching."

462

<4 Columbus Stake (Ohio) Adds Charm to Relief Society

Loraine M. Raiser, Homemaking Counselor, Columbus Stake Relief Society, with charm bracelet she prepared for January leadership meeting.

Dorthene B. Richardson, President, Columbus Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme for our leadership meetings during 1967-68 has been 'Show Me,' in an effort to demonstrate and illustrate the programs of Relief Society discussed each month."

The January theme was "Show Me—Little Things Mean a Lot." This charm bracelet illustrates that music, The Relief Society Magazine, greeting at the door, officers seated together, dignity in conducting, planned nurseries, publicity for special events, pleasant room arrangements, and starting and ending on time, all of which are very important 'little' things, add charm to Relief Society. "Consistent attendance and support by dedicated Relief Society officers and teachers in our stake have made each of our leadership meetings a rewarding experience."

HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 12—The Life You Save Mary Ellen Edmunds Faculty Member, Brigham Young University College of Nursing Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1968 Southern Hemisphere: February 1969 OBJECTIVE: To instruct Relief Society members

INTRODUCTION
A young child became tangled in the bedding and suffocated. A young Scout, on a trip with some friends, fell out of the boat while fishing; when he was pulled out of the water, he had stopped breathing. Fortunately, in both cases, a life was saved. The mother of the young child had received training in mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and was able to revive her. The buddies of the Scout had received the same training in their scout troop and saved their friend's life. This technique of artificial respiration is important not only for mothers, but also for members of the family. Many cases are recorded where lives have been 464 saved by young children who had received instruction in rescue breathing.

For these reasons, this lesson has been included for the benefit of Relief Society mothers and their families everywhere.

GENERAL RULES OF FIRST AID CARE
Some general rules of first aid care might well be included before actual instructions in rescue breathing are given. These rules include, as perhaps the most important initial action in giving first aid: Keep calm. Much additional damage can be done by hasty, needless actions in the face of an accident. Actions must be made quickly but efficiently. When an accident has occurred, the victim should not be moved, unless it is absolutely necessary, until the extent of injuries has been determined. Breathing must be restored if not present. Bleeding must be stopped. Burns should be covered and kept as clean as possible. Poisons should be diluted as soon as possible. Each of these could be covered in much more detail, but the purpose of this lesson is to instruct mothers, more specifically, in the technique of rescue breathing.

WHEN TO APPLY ARTIFICIAL BREATHING
The body does not store oxygen, but has to receive continually a fresh supply through the lungs and the breathing process. Sometimes certain accidents and illness can cause breathing to stop, and in such cases, artificial respiration may be life-saving because it supplies oxygen to the body until normal breathing can be restored. Some of the conditions which might cause a person to stop breathing are drowning, choking, strangling, partial obstruction of the passages, electric shock, and poisoning. One thing you might first notice is cyanosis, or a bluish color of the skin, particularly the lips.

There are, occasionally, conditions where it is not possible or advisable to use rescue breathing. An example of this type of situation is when the victim's face has been burned or otherwise injured so as to make the arm-lift method more practical and advisable. Instructions in this method of artificial respiration may be found in first aid manuals put out by the Red Cross.

LESSON DEPARTMENT
HOW TO APPLY RESCUE BREATHING
The actual method of rescue breathing begins by moving the victim so that he is lying on his back. Make certain that the air passage is clear, or else all the "breathing" that you might do for the victim would be of no use. Foreign material can be removed from the victim's mouth with your fingers. Tilt the victim's head back, with the neck extended. (See illustration 1.) Next, you need to push or pull the jaw into a jutting position, so as to prevent the tongue from falling into the back of the mouth and blocking the air passage. This can be done by shoving your thumb into the mouth and pulling the jaw forward. Now you place your mouth over the victim's mouth. (See illustration 2.) If the victim is an adult, use one hand to pinch off the nose, to prevent the air from coming out the nose instead of going into the lungs; if a child is the victim, place your mouth over his mouth and nose. Your mouth should seal the victim's mouth so as to prevent air from escaping as you breathe.

Now, taking a deep breath first, place your mouth over the victim's and blow vigorously. Turn your face to the side and inhale then repeat, twelve times a minute for an adult, twenty times per minute and not so vigorously for a child. Watch for the chest to rise. If you are unable to get air into the lungs of the victim, and you have done everything else correctly, some foreign material may be lodged in the throat. If a 465 June 1968 child hold him with his head down and slap sharply between the shoulder blades. If an adult, hold him on his side, and use the same procedure. Then, after the object is removed, proceed with rescue breathing.

You must breathe deeply before blowing air into the victim's lungs, so as to get more oxygen to them (when you exhale, less of the air is made up of oxygen than when you inhale). If you become dizzy or "light-headed," decrease the number of times you breathe each minute and you will feel all right. The rest of the lesson period is for practicing this method by which you may save a life.

HOME NURSING
Mouth to Mouth Resuscitation
BILL BLOW

An inexpensive devise to use in the practice of mouth-to-mouth breathing is the new training mannequin called "Bill Blow." Instructions for making and using "Bill Blow" are given.

Materials Needed:
1 Plastic bleach bottle (2 gallon with hollow handle)
1 Easy-Flow nipple
1 Piece of rubber tubing (8 inches long and 1/4 inch in diameter)
1 Small tube of latex rubber adhesive or household cement
1 Black felt pen
1 Plastic refrigerator bag (2 to 4 quart)
3 Rubber bands
1 Hinge
1 Cork (1/4 inch in diameter)
1 Piece of wood (1/4 inch thick, 2-1/2 inches long)
1 Piece of wood (1/4 inch thick, 9-1/4 inches wide and 16-1/4 inches long)
Nails (1/4 inch) or pushpins
Wire (42 inches long)
Book (3 to 4 pounds)
Screws

Domes of Silence or Felt pads

How to Make It:
Refer to the illustrations and directions to make a working dummy.

On Tilt Head Far Back and Pull Chin Upward
Illustration 1
Pinch Nostrils and Blow Gently
Mouth to Mouth
Mouth to Both
Mouth to Nose
Illustration 2

466

Cut openings for the mouth and nose. Insert the Easy-Flow nipple at the upper hole to form the "nose." Cut and remove the portion of the handle as indicated in the illustration. Plug the lower end with a shaped cork or wood stopper held in place by rubber adhesive. Attach the rubber tube to the cut end of handle near the neck of the bottle. Replace the bottle cap. Insert the opposite end of the rubber tube into the gathered end of the plastic bag and fasten with a rubber band. Attach a hinge to connect the large piece of wood to the narrow end of the smaller wood strip. Bend the wire and fasten each end to the large piece of wood forming a loop as shown in the illustration. Adjust the length of the wire so that when it is looped over the screw in the small piece of wood, the hinged ends of the wood will be raised approximately three inches. Attach the "head" to the wood strip with a large rubber band looped around the "forehead" and a smaller rubber band over the plugged end of the handle. Spread the plastic "lung" bag evenly over the large board.

How to Use It
As in actual resuscitation, the dummy's "nose" must be pinched in order that all air blown is directed to the "lung." Also the "head" must be tipped back in order to ensure an open airway. To tip the head back, lift both hinged ends of the wood and loop the wire from the large piece of wood over the screw in the small piece of wood. This will straighten the otherwise pinched tube and provide an open airway.

Place a 3 to 4-pound book over the plastic bag and hold in place with two 1/2-inch nails or pushpins on the bottom edge of the board. The weight of this size book will deflate the plastic bag at the proper rate and simulate the natural action of the "lungs."

Blow the air in and let it out at a rate of about 12 times per minute.

To provide each operator with a sanitary surface area around the dummy's "mouth," use a fresh sheet of aluminum foil over the "mouth" of the dummy. This material is easily available in rolls at all supermarkets or grocery stores. Cut the aluminum foil into 6-inch squares with a 1-inch hole in the center to blow through. This material sticks to the plastic bottle and provides a clean surface.

(Adapted from an article in "Boy's Life" by the Primary Association, and published in the "Supplement to the Guide Patrol Handbook.")

USING "BILL BLOW"
467
Area Kas Aueidaray areas as OOO
aimemee SS: % Reine ss re. +: +s DOOD 7 >
SPIRITUAL LIVING

The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1968-69
Elder Roy W. Doxey

The nearly five-year period from July 1838 to May 1843, when Sections 119 to 131 were given was one of great trial for the saints as well as being a period of tremendous doctrinal importance.

Four events of major importance in the history of the Church occurred at Nauvoo in the two years 1841-1842. In Section 124 (January 1841), the Nauvoo Temple was commanded to be built where work for the living and the dead might be performed.

In March 1842, the Prophet wrote the Wentworth Letter containing the Articles of Faith (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts (2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1949), Vol. IV, pp. 535-541 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC]) and, on March 17, 1842 (bid., 4:552) the Relief Society was organized.

Finally, on August 6, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave the remarkable prophecy concerning the saints being driven to the Rocky Mountains where they would become a great and a mighty people. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1953, p. 324; see also pp. 212-237.)

Lessons for the year 1968-69 begin with the commandment that, if lived, will help the saint to fulfill his financial obligation to build Zion upon the earth.

Due to persecution and other factors, the Lord revealed the condemnations which would be visited upon the heads of those who persecuted His people and also upon those who left the Church as apostates. He also promised blessings upon the member of the Church who follows the principles of the priesthood.

Because of the persecution upon the Prophet and the saints, the Lord revealed the purpose of adversity in this earth life.

The remaining lessons are concerned with doctrines and practices of the Church.

The principles of exaltation received in the House of the Lord; the doctrine of salvation of the dead; counsel on how to detect false and genuine angelic ministrations; and finally, many doctrinal instructions that, if assimilated, confirm faith in the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.

The 1968-69 series of spiritual living lessons have been given the following titles and objectives:

Lesson 89—The Law of Tithing (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 119.)
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1968
Southern Hemisphere: March 1969
Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman views the payment of tithing as a privilege, knowing that eternal blessings are the result.

Lesson 90—The Fruits of Apostasy (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 121:11-25; 123.)
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968
Southern Hemisphere: April 1969
Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman searches her soul to root out any seeds of apostasy, that she may remain true and faithful.

Lesson 91—The Blessings of the Priesthood
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968
Southern Hemisphere: May 1969
Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman resolves to use her influence in harmony with the great principles of persuasion, gentleness, and mildness, as set forth for the priesthood to exercise.

Lesson 92—Adversity (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 121:1-10; 122.)
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1969
Southern Hemisphere: June 1969
Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman remembers in adversity the promise of the Lord "if thou endure it well thou shalt triumph over all thy foes..."' (D&C 121:8) and she generates renewed strength to endure.

Lesson 93—The Nauvoo Temple and Its Higher Ordinances (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 124:25-44.)
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1969
Southern Hemisphere: July 1969
Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman prepares herself for the higher ordinances of the temple as her circumstances permit.

Lesson 94—Salvation for the Dead (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 127-128.)
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1969
Southern Hemisphere: August 1969
Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman meets her responsibility of making possible the baptisms of her progenitors.

Lesson 95—The Ministry of Angels (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 129; 130:1-11.)
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1969
Southern Hemisphere: September 1969
Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks to understand better how she may keep from being deceived by evil spirits.

Lesson 96—Doctrinal Instructions (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 130:8-23; 131:5-8.)
Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting. May 1969
Southern Hemisphere: October 1969
Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman devotes herself to gaining more knowledge through diligence and obedience.

469 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Preview of Messages for 1968-69 Alice Colton Smith For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. (P. Of G. P., Moses 1:39.) And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. (John 17:3.).. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich. (D&C 6:7.) The mass media of our day extol the desirability of the riches of the earth. As soon as one can listen, understand, or read, one discovers that the constantly repeated values of the world emphasize power, wealth, comfort, position, status, pleasure, beautiful homes and furnishings, cars, the advantage of material things of all kinds. Amid the clamor of these insistent urgings to spend, buy, own, be, and do, comes the advice of our Savior and King, "... He that hath eternal life is rich." We know that at death we leave behind wealth, power, status, and material things. Why, then, do we spend so much of our energy and time in pursuing that which is so briefly ours? Why do we not listen to and act on the words of our Savior with greater devotion? He instructed us through the prophet Jacob:. Before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good—to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted. (Jacob 2:18-19.) Thus, God does not condemn riches, it is the unrighteous acquisition and use that are displeasing. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the gospel of hope. In a world where all men and women are faced with difficult problems, there is a never-ending need for assurance that good solutions are possible. Each generation exhibits the necessity of a prophetic interpretation of the word of God to assure it that justice, mercy, and love will be ultimately triumphant. This year we will explore anew the meaning of eternal life and the gospel of hope, and how we can be partakers of them in this life. Message 1—Today Is Part of Our Eternal Life Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: To understand that many of the riches of eternal life are available to us at this time. 470 Lesson Previews Message 2—"Let Every Man Esteem His Brother As Himself" (D&C 38:24-25.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: To realize that there is a universal need to be esteemed and to esteem. Message 3—Each Person Needs to Feel Accepted Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: To show that acceptance encourages growth. Message 4—We Are to Be Compassionate Toward the Afflicted Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objective: To help us remember that compassion blesses the giver and the receiver. Message 5—Effective Communication. Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: To show how effective communication is an avenue to successful relations. Message 6—"Draw Near Unto Me and I Will Draw Near Unto You..." (D&C 88:63.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: To realize that our lives are more meaningful if we are close to our Heavenly Father. Message 7—"... And I, the Lord, Remember Them No More." (D&C 58:42.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 Objective: To understand that true repentance results in complete forgiveness by the Lord. Message 8—"... Thou Shalt Be Reconciled" (D&C 42:88) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: October 1969 Objective: To show that reconciliation is more than forgiveness. HOMEMAKING MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Preview of Discussions for 1968-69 Celestia J. Taylor When we open the doors to our homes, we want those who enter to find an atmosphere of warmth and welcoming hospitality. We want them to feel that here is a place where they can be comfortable and at ease in attractive surroundings. When they do feel this way, we can consider it to be a personal compliment, for, as we have learned, a home reflects the personalities of those who live within. This is equally true whether it applies to a small cottage, a mansion, a city apartment, or a farmhouse; and it is equally true no matter where or in what country we may be located. Some of us may say, June 1968 "What if I don't have that kind of personality? What hope is there for me?" There is hope for any woman who has a desire to improve her surroundings, inside and out, so that they reflect qualities of beauty, good taste, and suitability. These qualities are, in a sense, inseparable, for nothing can be beautiful if it is not in good taste, nor in good taste unless it is suitable for its surroundings. It is comforting and reassuring to know that these qualities can be more easily developed at home than anywhere else by the application of simple principles and practices of family life and manners as well as environmental surroundings. This year's discussions will be concerned with these principles and practices whereby we can learn how to achieve beauty and good taste in our home environment and in our family relationships and thereby contribute to the development of spirituality in the home. Discussion 1—Preparing for the Sabbath Day Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: To show that in order to keep the Sabbath day holy, physical preparations should be made. Discussion 2—Christmas Traditions Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: November 1968 Objective: To show that establishing family traditions can make Christmas a time of joyous anticipation, happy association, and spiritual renewal. Discussion 3—Priceless Treasures Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: To point out the joy, satisfaction, and historical value of a continuous compilation of significant family events. Discussion 4—Let's Be More Courteous; Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: To show how acting courteously in our homes and in public and being reverent in sacred places are the marks of a cultured person. Discussion 5—Let's Be More Courteous (Continued) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objective: To show how we can teach our children to be habitually courteous and well mannered. Discussion 6—Take Pride in What You Have Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: To show how, by becoming aware of our environment, we can appraise our homes and determine any necessary improvement. Discussion 7—Let's Go Inside Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: To point out ways to beautify our home interiors, with emphasis on picture groupings and other wall accessories.

Discussion 8—Let's Go Inside (Continued)

Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1969  
Southern Hemisphere: September 1969

Lesson Previews  
Objective: To point out ways to beautify our home interiors, with emphasis on furniture arrangements and use of accessories.  
Discussions for Summer Months: June—Outside Housekeeping  
August—House Plants  
Northern Hemisphere: June 1969  
Northern Hemisphere: August 1969  
Southern Hemisphere: October 1969  
Southern Hemisphere: January 1970

July—Gardening Appearance  
September—Garden Convenience and Safety  
Northern Hemisphere: July 1969  
Northern Hemisphere: September 1969  
Southern Hemisphere: December 1969  
Southern Hemisphere: February 1970

SOCIAL RELATIONS  
Immortality and Eternal Life  
Preview of Lessons for 1968-69  
Alberta H. Christensen  
Thomas Carlyle once said, "The history of the world is but the biography of great men." (Heroes and Hero Worship.) Whether this statement be literally true or an accepted generalization, may be of little concern to all who acknowledge the influence of outstanding men. In life, they lead and direct, and, in memory, they still may motivate both thought and action. Such men are not only involved personally in some area of human relationship, but they may leave a written record of their problems, their aspirations, and their beliefs. These writings constitute an important factor in the profile of their lives, for in the sum of these writings, surely, the character of the writer must be recorded.

The 1968-69 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons are taken from the writings and messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.—a wise and influential man and a member of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from April 6, 1933 to October 6, 1961. The companion Relief Society lessons will likewise be based upon the writings and messages of President Clark. The lessons will be concerned with people, with the Latter-day Saint woman as the central figure. They will be channeled in the direction of her relationship with her Father in heaven, her family, her neighbors, and with her more casual acquaintances.

As in previous lessons, the correlation with the priesthood manual lessons may be close in some cases; in other lessons, a single idea or religious principle may be developed in the direction of application to a woman's life. Social relations class leaders who have found the "within-the-lesson" suggestions for class involvement a valuable stimulus for discussion, will welcome their continuance. They know that active class participation may result where pertinent questions and realistic fragments of conversation are wisely used. They have found June 1968 that apt and convincing illustrations not only create interest in the subject, but may help class members more clearly to evaluate their own similar situations.

New class leaders are urged to make full use of these involvement suggestions. Although tremendous strides have been made in the fields of scientific discovery, in the development of undreamed-of mechanical devices, and in mental concepts, the peoples of the world have not learned how to get along with each other. Consequently, to understand and to know how to better our human relationships still are our major problems. Frustration, tensions, and unrest are everywhere apparent. Even the optimistic acknowledge the need for an increased spirituality and a strengthening of the home.

The overall objective of the social relations lessons is to help the Latter-day Saint woman meet life situations more maturely and to improve individual-to-individual relationships of which she is a part. Titles and objectives of the forthcoming lessons follow:

Lesson 1—Profiles Remembered  
Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1968  
Southern Hemisphere: March 1969  
Objective: To point out gospel teachings that influenced the life of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and to indicate how his life and writings may influence other lives for good.

Lesson 2—The Questions Every Woman Asks  
Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1968  
Southern Hemisphere: April 1969  
Objective: To point out that the questions which every thoughtful woman asks regarding her responsibilities and destiny are answered in the gospel of Jesus Christ.

Lesson 3—Lighting the Way  
Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1968  
Southern Hemisphere: May 1969  
Objective: To emphasize that during his ministry the Savior gave guidance on the basic aspects of human relationships.

Lesson 4—The Latter-day Saint Woman in Today's World  
Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1969  
Southern Hemisphere: June 1969  
Objectives: To consider issues which present new challenges to the Latter-day Saint woman and to suggest ways of meeting some of them.

Lesson 5—Look for the Guide Line  
Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1969  
Southern Hemisphere: July 1969  
Objective: To point out that the Latter-day Saint woman need not be deceived by false values and standards of today, if she will look for and heed the guide lines of gospel teachings.

Lesson 6—That We May Be One  
Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1969  
Southern Hemisphere: August 1969  
Objective: To emphasize the value of unity in the home and in various Church activities involving the Latter-day Saint woman.

474

Lesson Previews  
Lesson 7—"Not Where You Serve, But How"  
Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1969  
Southern Hemisphere: September 1969  
Objective: To stress the importance of President Clark's statement, "In the service of the Lord, it is not where you serve, but how."

Lesson 8—Are We Preparing?  
Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1969  
Southern Hemisphere: October 1969  
Objective: To point out that being prepared for tomorrow may require diligent effort today.

A CULTURAL REFINEMENT  
Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4: The World Around Us by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas.)

Preview of Lessons—1968-9

With Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books we view home and family in larger perspective. Earlier courses of study in this department have focused upon home and family rather specifically. The qualities which have set the theme for each lesson have turned our attention to the individual as part of a family and to the family as a basic unit. But no family really exists in isolation. All must establish some relationships within the societies of which they are a part.

The missionary emphasis of the Church keeps us reminded that the gospel must be shared, and the very concept of a church suggests that certain principles can be best lived with others instead of apart from them. The scriptures warn us, however, that we must not be of the world, that is, let those who do not share our belief set the standards by which we live.

In our anxiety to avoid the temptations of the world, however, we should not assume that the answer is withdrawal. In his classic essay on freedom entitled "Areopagetica," John Milton warns us that a "cloistered virtue" may not prove adequate to the stresses which the evils of the world may subject it to and which, practically, cannot be completely avoided.

To be aware of evil, however, does not require participation in it. The emphasis of this year's course will be upon ways in which we can positively prepare ourselves to live in the world without succumbing to it. As in former years, each section will contain more material than can easily be used in a single lesson. That which cannot be fully covered in the lesson could be used in a home reading program.

A sketchy survey of all the material offered is never as effective as choosing one or two selections which really touch the lives of class members. With the experience of the past two years as a guide, we hope that the art and music which are intended to supplement each lesson will be carefully integrated into the whole and not merely used as ornament. The skills by which literature is evaluated are encouragingly similar to those required in appreciation of art and music. The critical approaches discussed in detail in Volume 1 of Out of the Best Books are applicable to any cultural medium. Cultural refinement class leaders might well take as one of their goals, during the coming year, not only helping class members understand what they read, see, and hear, but getting them emotionally identified with concepts which can literally transform the world. No artistic expression has its full impact if it fails to arouse an emotional response in those who are being introduced to it. Leo Tolstoy suggested that great art—whether painting, music or writing—should always be infectious; that is, it should transmit a feeling from one person to another and, in so doing, unite them. If the selections included in this year's lessons can be used in such a way that they modify the emotional identification of Relief Society members and unite them in support of positive personal and family development, they will indeed affect the world.

Lesson 1—The Excitement of Discovery "One truth discovered is a link with the immortal." —William Hazlitt Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1968 Southern Hemisphere: March 1969 Objective: To show that the world in which a woman serves is limited by the extent of her desire to discover.

Lesson 2—The Power of Discipline "A stern discipline pervades all nature, which is a little cruel that it may be very kind." —Edmund Spenser Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 Objective: To stress that control is the focus which gives energy its direction.

Lesson 3—The Comfort of Faith "The saddest thing that can befall a soul is to lose faith in God...." —Alexander Smith Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 Objective: To emphasize that a life built around faith brings to a woman greater happiness than a life without faith can bring.

Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth "We are born to grow and can only develop by keeping ourselves in vital communication with the world without and within us." —J. S. Spalding Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 Objective: To show that, in true development, increasing complexity is matched by enlarging capacity.

Lesson 5—The Appreciation of Beauty "I pray Thee, Oh God, that I may be beautiful within." —Socrates Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 Objective: To show that beauty enriches living and that a life in harmony with truth and virtue is the most convincing manifestation of womanly beauty.

Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence "Persistent people begin their success where others end in failure." —Edward Eggleston Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: August 1969 Objective: A woman should radiate confidence, for discouragement and undependability are greater hindrances to success than lack of ability.

Lesson 7—The Achievement of Serenity "Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of principles." —Ralph Waldo Emerson Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 Objective: A woman should help all within her influence to see that wholeness of life is characterized by positive acceptance rather than negative resignation.

Lesson 8—A Review of the Year's Lessons Southern Hemisphere: October 1969

SAN ANTONIO HEMISFAIR
HELL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS
July 27—August 11 As July 27—August 17 | Portable * CANADIAN ROCKIES AND! As the NORTHWEST TOUR B k! New, compact August 19—September 100. BOOK OF MORMON "and much more vivid" hints BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR e Complete and unabridged 50 — 7" LP. Gold vinyl records mers 8-25 e A must for every missionary present & future MESA VERDE & NOW ONLY $34 95 CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR Write for free catalog TERMS September 21—28 R ~<q Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive RECORDINGS INC. Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 1470 South State St., Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 See your local book or-record store

June 1968
WHEN ONE MUST DIE
When one must die Oh, let it be As the felling Of a great tree That has known well The slash of rain, Fury of winds, The lightning's pain. Yet, has known, too, The young bird cries, The warmth of sun, And endless skies.
—Christie Lund

COLES Tour-ific! * HAWAI] weeny —8 days $287 * HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT 17 Days — $279 19 Days — $319 23 Days — $369 * TEXAS HEMISFAIR 14 Days — $259 * MEXICO 14 days from Salt Lake. As low as $198. (Mexico City, Cuernavaca, Taxco, Acapulco) * ALASKA * SOUTH AMERICA For all travel and ticketing arrangements SAGARET Ly QO TRAVEL INC. 110 East 2nd South alt Lake City, Utah <8. 898 | 295 O40 = Ogden, 399-4587 St. George, 673-3136 Mesa 964-5283

New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective March 1, 1968
A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service.

Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included
Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed.
Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah

Zone 1 - $.80
Zone 2 - $1.20
Zone 3 - $1.45
Zone 4 - $1.05
Zone 5 - $1.20
Zone 6 - $1.40
Zone 7 - $1.60
Zone 8 - $1.85

DESERET NEWS PRESS
1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104
Phone (801) 486-1892