By Christie Lund
God, make me as the hills? Strong, to endure The cold, The bitterness of winter's ruthless winds.
Give me the character To stand Unmoved, unweakened By the friendly summer sun.
Give me the courage To face adversity? Flaunting my colors high, Like hills when summer dies.
Yet, more than all Give me a glad, young heart That, spite of winter snows, And summer suns, Looks up and sings As the eternal, flower-strewn April hills.

VOL. XVI APRIL, 1929 NO. 4 Tue FouNnTAIN OF THE VIRGIN, IN NAZARETH THE Relief Society Magazine Vou. XVI APRIL, 1929 No. 4 My Ideal Third Poem to Receive Honorable Mention in the Eliza Roxe; Snow Poetry Contest By Mrs. Elsie Parton, New South Wales, Australia No canyon grand or mountain peak, Bright flow'ry dell, or willowed creek, No eerie scene where fairies bathe 'Neath mossy banks in forest glade Holds my ideal. It is not held in silver note Of music sweet, from singer's throat. Nor setting sun, whose crimson hue a i like blood the western blue, Holds my ideal. But wrinkled cheek, once bright and red, Now pale and worn, its bloom long fled, Dear toil-worn hands, once smooth and white. That always guided me aright— Holds my ideal. Battered with time and years of care, With faltering step and silver hair; Deep-furrowed brow o'er eyes that shine With tender love as they meet mine— Holds my ideal. I'arth's greatest heroes pass away; Kingdoms vanish in a day; jut high where nothing can compare My mother stands exalted there, As my ideal. The Letter and the Spirit By Elder Orson F, Whitney, of the Council of the Twelve "The letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life."—1 Cor. 3:6. How prone we are, when studying the Scriptures or other sacred teachings, to tie ourselves down to the letter of what has been written or spoken, regarding too little the Spirit that indited it and is alone capable of interpreting or making it plain. "Eye hath not seen, ear hath not heard," says Paul— referring of course to the natural eye, the natural ear, and the inability of such organs to see or hear heavenly things. "But," adds the Apostle, "God hath revealed them unto us by his Ri the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God." As an example of the letter requiring interpretation by the Spirit, let us first consider this passage from Genesis: "So God created man in his own image; in the image of God created He him; male and female created He them." (Gen. 1:27.) To the casual reader this might imply that God is both male and female—a bi-sexual being. But we know better, having been correctly taught. We know that God is "an exalted Man" who "sits enthroned in yonder heavens." (I quote from the Prophet Joseph Smith.) The male, not the female of the human species, is in the image or likeness of the Eternal Father. But, "In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare. Truth is reason—truth eternal Tells me I've a Mother there." So says the poet-prophetess, Eliza R. Snow, in her immortal invocation to the Eternal Father and Mother. What is that glorious hymn but an example of the Spirit interpreting the Letter?—the Spirit of Truth—the "secret something" that whispered to her of her heavenly origin. It was in the image or likeness of the Eternal Mother that woman was created. The Creator was speaking of man in the generic sense—mankind—when He said, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." "The man is not without the woman, nor the woman without the man, in the Lord." Wedded, they are as ne the two together constituting the unit of the race. A too rigid manerenice to the letter of the Mosaic Law, THE LETTER AND THE SPIRIT 177 and a bigoted contempt for the Gospel or Higher Law, caused the Pharisees and Sadducees to reject the Messiah. They professed to revere Moses and the Prophets, but being without the Spirit that illumines and gives life to the letter, they failed to see clearly the meaning of the Mosaic Code and the Book of Prophecy. For instance, they thought it a sin to do any work on the Sabbath day, and found fault with the Savior for healing the sick on that day. "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath,' He told them, and further confounded and angered them by declaring: "It is lawful to do good on the Sabbath day,'"—meaning, of course, if necessary, as when food is prepared "in singleness of heart," to sustain the body while keeping the Sabbath or otherwise worshiping the Lord. To paraphrase His own illustration: If an ox has fallen into the ditch and needs instant help, it is lawful to extend that help, even though it be on the Sabbath day. These and like teachings, reflecting the highest wisdom and the soundest common sense, sealed the doom of the sinless Son of God. His enemies invoked the letter of the law against the One who had given that law ages before, and because He, by the Spirit, now taught a higher law—the time being ripe for it—He was condemned and crucified. Next, let us take the case of the Christian Church in the early centuries after the age of the Apostles, when uninspired teachers, aiming to interpret the letter without the Spirit, led the flock astray. Among other things, they misinterpreted the Eucharist or Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. "Eat—this is my body." ''Drink—this is my blood." So the Savior is represented as saying of the bread and wine blessed by Him and given to his Apostles on the night before his crucifixion. But is it a true translation? When Jesus introduced the same ordinance among the Nephites He was more explicit, saying "This shall ye do in remembrance of my body" and "in remembrance of my blood which I have shed for you." (Book of Mormon—3 Nephi 18:7-11.) A clearer idea of the Sacrament and its purpose is thus given. | But suppose He did say to the Apostles: "This is my body and my blood"? The Spirit that was in them #hade plain the Master's meaning. He could not have meant that the bread was indeed his body, or the wine his blood; for his body was then intact, unbroken—He was speaking to them out of it. And his blood was in his veins, yet unspilt. His true disciples, in all ages, when partaking of the Sacrament worthily, receive of his Spirit, which is the food of their spirits, the power by which they grow and become strong. But they do not chew his flesh nor drink his blood. If He really said, "This is my body,—this is my blood," it was only a short way  of saying what He intended. He was not speaking literally; He was using a metaphor, an implied comparison, a common custom with Orientals. But after the Apostles had departed, and uninspired leaders arose, the opposite or literal view was taken, and by their faulty interpretation millions of souls have been misled. We can and should respect their sincerity, but we cannot accept or approve their doctrine. It is always right to be sincere, but sincerity is not always right. Another case in point. John the Apostle wrote, or is supposed to have written: "No man hath seen God at any time." (John 1:18.) How are we to understand that, granting it to be a correct translation?—for we are under no obligation to believe even the Bible except in-so-far as it has been translated correctly. Did not Adam see God? Did not Enoch walk with God? Did not Jehovah appear to Abraham? Did not Moses, Aaron, Nadab and Abihu and seventy of the Elders of Israel go up into the mountain and see the God of Israel? The Bible says so, and modern revelation confirms it. Did not the Apostles see Jesus Christ, in whom "dwelt the fulness of the Godhead bodily?" Was He not "the Word that was God" and was "made flesh" and dwelt among them, that they might see Him? John himself declares it (John I 1, 14); and yet is made to say, in the very same connection, "No man hath seen God at any time." What then? Shall we cling to the letter of that one statement, and ignore all that went before it, both history and doctrine? Why, it would tear out the foundations of the Christion religion. It would blot out all the Gospel dispensations and destroy every hope of salvation. No, let us put life into the dead letter, and make it read as it ought to read. And how ought it to read? Moses virtually decides, the question in saying: "Now mine own eyes have beheld God; but not my natural, but my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld; for I should have withered and died in his presence; ' but his glory was upon me; and I beheld his face, for I was@ransfigured before him." (Pearl of Great Price—Moses 1:11.) Thus the wrinkle is smoothed out. "No man"'—with his natural eyes—'"hath seen God at any time." Or, as our own revered Prophet puts it: "No man hath seen God at any time in the flesh, except quickened by the Spirit of God" (Doc. And Cov. 67:11)—-which means precisely the same thing. In Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice" Shylock demands the literal fulfillment of the bond that Antonio has forfeited, and insists upon his "pound of flesh, to be by him cut off near- THE LETTER AND THE SPIRIT 179 est the merchant's heart." Portia, pleading for Antonio, entreats the Jew to be merciful. "Upon what compulsion must I?" he asks. Then Portia: "The quality of mercy is not strain'd: It droppeth, as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath; it is twice bless'd; It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes; Tis mightiest in the mightiest; it becomes The throned monarch better than his crown. His sceptre shows the force of temporal power, The attribute to awe and majesty,. Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings; But mercy is above this sceptred sway, It is enthroned in the hearts of kings, It is an attribute to God himself; And earthly power doth then show likest God's When mercy seasons justice." This plea, so sublime in letter and in spirit, having failed to melt the hard-hearted money-lender, Portia next reads into the bloodthirsty bond an interpretation so literal that it completely baffles the cruel and vindictive schemer, takes him in his own snare, and rescues the merchant from his peril. It was a triumph of letter over letter, one might say. But it was also a triumph of the Spirit. There are times, however, when the Letter almost crowds the Spirit off the platform. Here is an instance. A pious father was taking to task his little son for uncharity; the boy having angrily expressed himself over some wrong, real or fancied, done him by another. "You shouldn't talk that way about your little playmate," said the father, "haven't you thought how you might heap coals of fire on his head?" "No," said the boy, "I hadn't thought of it, but it's a peach of an idea." The young Shylock! Many things are implied that are not expressed; what is told being suggestive and inclusive of the untold. In the revelations of God given to the Church in these days, the chewing or smoking of tobacco is inhibited; but that does not leave morphine unbanned. The "dope fiend" is also a breaker of the Word of Wisdom. Again, the excessive or untimely use of "the fowls of the air" for food, is discountenanced; but the fowls of the barnyard, though unmentioned, are not omitted, but are included by implication. Gluttony is a vice, as well as drunkenness, no matter what the gourmand gorges himself upon. All excesses are hurtful to health, whether or not they be "nominated in the bond." All are infractions of divine law, the intent of which (as in human law) should  always be weighed and considered—not the letter alone. In "seeking for wisdom out of the best of books," as we have been commanded, we need the Holy Spirit as an interpreter, lest we blunder and go astray. The letter, alone, is an insufficient guide. Like "faith without works," it is dead." But the Spirit cannot err. The letter, with the conflicting interpretations put upon it, is responsible for disputations and contentions, against which we are solemnly warned. By the letter we are divided. By the Spirit we see eye to eye, and are made acceptable to Him who has said: "Except ye are one, ye are not mine." Le Printemps (The Springtime) By Brooks Kairn I dipped with eager pen to write of spring Then thought me of the cynic's grating words, "How now, another poetaster bent On gushing of the bumble-bee and birds?" "Write on!' a milder voice bade teasingly; "For poesy was born of such as this— Of stream and tree—the morning's early glow, Cold loam's awakening at Springtime's kiss. Sing on with words to match the lark's clear note— In lines full patterned to the bluebird's wing, Imprison tulip's grace within your rhyme And joyfulness of warbler's caroling. Weave deftly golden strands of prismic light In this, your tapestry. Let there be hint Of brocklet's dashing play on mossy rocks— The green of pristine leaf caught in Sol's glint. Attune this theme you'd pen of brighter days To fragrance of the dew-pearled mountain flower, Blend carefully your verse to fleece-blown cloud Revealed in cameo on turquoise bower. All these, and more. String then your modest lyre; Seek out the kindred pipes of elfin Pan; Send forth this gladsome melody of Spring—: Rejoicing in a wise Creator's plan." What it Means to Understand Religion By A. C, Lambert "Until man becomes either a lotus-eater or a God he will believe and pray and worship. So long as man remains man, 'who partly is and wholly hopes to be,' he will be incurably religious." So long as men refuse to turn their backs on the great adventure of living; so long as men refuse to admit that fear cowardice, and self-seeking can permanently dominate personality; so long as men refuse to turn their faces from the search for good, which is found in the life of God revealed to men— just so long will religion remain. For religion is the way of spiritual self-fulfillment. It is the way in which men find the ultimate significance of life's practices and beliefs when life and the world are interpreted as a whole. Though religion has been most variously defined, its continuing reality as a human experience and an integral part of human living must be recognized. Demonstration of the validity of the fact of religious experience comes through examination of the observable experiences and practices of human beings. Demonstration of the value of religious experiences is found in the feeling life of innumerable human beings. Demonstration of the ultimate truthfulness of religious doctrines and practices comes through (1) acceptance by individuals and groups of revelations from God, and pronouncements of those authorized to speak for God, (2) recognition of their consistency with other accepted truths empirically established, (3) recognition of their demonstrated power to reconstruct human lives and human institutions in directions universally recognized as "better" and good, and (4) their felt value to the individual. Any one of the four methods gains strength when supplemented by all the others. The ultimate key to a real understanding of any religion is to feel it. That means more than to secure a knowledge of its doctrines, its theology, its ritual, its ethical and moral precepts, its ecclesiastical organization and machinery, its sacred shrines and its temples; for these, though inherently necessary, are but the body of the religion, and not its life-blood; its externals, not its reality. A religion to be understood and to be appreciated as a  driving power to spiritual self-realization must, in some degree, be experienced. Really to understand a religion one must put himself in the place of the believers and practicers of that religion. He must have been troubled as they have been troubled. He must have struggled for spiritual light and growth as they have struggled. He must have felt God's presence as they have felt it. He must have risen through belief from sin and despair as they have risen. He must have suffered as they have suffered. He must have conquered as they have conquered. Short of this, no one may adequately understand a religious system or a great religious life. But with understanding can come appreciation of religion as a fundamental and natural expression of life. With understanding comes less bitterness in criticism of dogma and practice. With understanding comes more intelligent toleration and cooperation between individuals whose creed, ritual, and symbols take different forms. Ultimately, truth is individual truth. Many truths of religion may be demonstrable truths; and in order to be universally or generally accepted, they must be such truths. Empirical method is one method of demonstrating truth, and it has proved its value and place as an instrument and a creation of human thought. But ultimately, truth in religion, like truth in knowledge, is felt truth. Truth and knowledge come to be demonstrated, accepted, and depended upon, by reason of the general and continuing uniformity in the way human beings think and feel about it. Let men not delude themselves in thinking that they think beyond thought. It is, therefore, perhaps true that much of religion must remain sacredly intimate and individual. That fact need not weaken the fundamental significance of religion as a general human experience and a valuable possession for group preservation. Rather it should make men think more deeply on their own true selves, perchance to learn anew the worth of faith in human life, perchance to learn again that truth itself has many sides, that values have no meaning unless felt by human souls, and that striving after God brings light and life and hope, and in the end makes better men. In learning of all this, we come more adequately to understand religion. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - S - C President MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - -:: - - - First Counselor MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD -: - - Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND -:: = General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs, Lotta Paul Baxter Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrg, Elise B. Alder Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Barbara Howell RichardsMrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs, Kate M. Barker. Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - - - - - - - ALIceE Louise REYNOLDS Manager - - - -: -: - - Louise Y. Rosison Assistant Mataeer - -: - Amy Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL, XVI APRIL, 1929 No.