The Letter and the Spirit By Elder Orson F. Whitney, of the Council of the Twelve
"The letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life."—I Cor. 3:6.
How prone we are, when studying the Scriptures or other sacred teachings, to tie ourselves down to the letter of what has been written or spoken, regarding too little the Spirit that indited it and is alone capable of interpreting or making it plain.
"Eye hath not seen, ear hath not heard," says Paul—referring of course to the natural eye, the natural ear, and the inability of such organs to see or hear heavenly things. "But," adds the Apostle, "God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit; the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God."
As an example of the letter requiring interpretation by the Spirit, let us first consider this passage from Genesis: "So God created man in his own image; in the image of God created He him; male and female created He them." (Gen. 1:27.)
To the casual reader this might imply that God is both male and female—a bi-sexual being. But we know better, having been correctly taught. We know that God is "an exalted Man" who "sits enthroned in yonder heavens." (I quote from the Prophet Joseph Smith.) The male, not the female of the human species, is in the image or likeness of the Eternal Father. But,
"In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare. Truth is reason—truth eternal Tells me I've a Mother there."
So says the poet-prophetess, Eliza R. Snow, in her immortal invocation to the Eternal Father and Mother. What is that glorious hymn but an example of the Spirit interpreting the Letter?—the Spirit of Truth—the "secret something" that whispered to her of her heavenly origin. It was in the image or likeness of the Eternal Mother that woman was created. The Creator was speaking of man in the generic sense—mankind—when He said, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." "The man is not without the woman, nor the woman without the man, in the Lord." Wedded, they are as one; the two together constituting the unit of the race.
A too rigid adherence to the letter of the Mosaic Law, and a bigoted contempt for the Gospel or Higher Law, caused the Pharisees and Sadducees to reject the Messiah. They professed to revere Moses and the Prophets, but being without the Spirit that illumines and gives life to the letter, they failed to see clearly the meaning of the Mosaic Code and the Book of Prophecy. For instance, they thought it a sin to do any work on the Sabbath day, and found fault with the Savior for healing the sick on that day. "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath," He told them, and further confounded and angered them by declaring: "It is lawful to do good on the Sabbath day,"—meaning, of course, if necessary, as when food is prepared "in singleness of heart," to sustain the body while keeping the Sabbath or otherwise worshiping the Lord. To paraphrase His own illustration: If an ox has fallen into the ditch and needs instant help, it is lawful to extend that help, even though it be on the Sabbath day.
These and like teachings, reflecting the highest wisdom and the soundest common sense, sealed the doom of the sinless Son of God. His enemies invoked the letter of the law against the One who had given that law ages before, and because He, by the Spirit, now taught a higher law—the time being ripe for it—He was condemned and crucified.
Next, let us take the case of the Christian Church in the early centuries after the age of the Apostles, when uninspired teachers, aiming to interpret the letter without the Spirit, led the flock astray. Among other things, they misinterpreted the Eucharist or Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. "Eat—this is my body." "Drink—this is my blood." So the Savior is represented as saying of the bread and wine blessed by Him and given to his Apostles on the night before his crucifixion. But is it a true translation? When Jesus introduced the same ordinance among the Nephites He was more explicit, saying "This shall ye do in remembrance of my body" and "in remembrance of my blood which I have shed for you." (Book of Mormon—3 Nephi 18:7-11.) A clearer idea of the Sacrament and its purpose is thus given.
But suppose He did say to the Apostles: "This is my body and my blood"? The Spirit that was in them made plain the Master's meaning. He could not have meant that the bread was indeed his body, or the wine his blood; for his body was then intact, unbroken—He was speaking to them out of it. And his blood was in his veins, yet unspilt. His true disciples, in all ages, when partaking of the Sacrament worthily, receive of his Spirit, which is the food of their spirits, the power by which they grow and become strong. But they do not chew his flesh nor drink his blood. If He really said, "This is my body,—this is my blood," it was only a short way of saying what He intended. He was not speaking literally; He was using a metaphor, an implied comparison, a common custom with Orientals. But after the Apostles had departed, and uninspired leaders arose, the opposite or literal view was taken, and by their faulty interpretation millions of souls have been misled. We can and should respect their sincerity, but we cannot accept or approve their doctrine. It is always right to be sincere, but sincerity is not always right.
Another case in point. John the Apostle wrote, or is supposed to have written: "No man hath seen God at any time." (John 1:18.) How are we to understand that, granting it to be a correct translation?—for we are under no obligation to believe even the Bible except in-so-far as it has been translated correctly. Did not Adam see God? Did not Enoch walk with God? Did not Jehovah appear to Abraham? Did not Moses, Aaron, Nadab and Abihu and seventy of the Elders of Israel go up into the mountain and see the God of Israel? The Bible says so, and modern revelation confirms it. Did not the Apostles see Jesus Christ, in whom "dwelt the fulness of the Godhead bodily?" Was He not "the Word that was God" and was "made flesh" and dwelt among them, that they might see Him? John himself declares it (John 1:1, 14); and yet is made to say, in the very same connection, "No man hath seen God at any time." What then? Shall we cling to the letter of that one statement, and ignore all that went before it, both history and doctrine? Why, it would tear out the foundations of the Christian religion. It would blot out all the Gospel dispensations and destroy every hope of salvation. No, let us put life into the dead letter, and make it read as it ought to read. And how ought it to read? Moses virtually decides the question in saying: "Now mine own eyes have beheld God; but not my natural, but my spiritual eyes, for my natural eyes could not have beheld; for I should have withered and died in his presence; but his glory was upon me; and I beheld his face, for I was transfigured before him." (Pearl of Great Price—Moses 1:11.) Thus the wrinkle is smoothed out. "No man"—with his natural eyes—"hath seen God at any time." Or, as our own revered Prophet puts it: "No man hath seen God at any time in the flesh, except quickened by the Spirit of God" (Doc. And Cov. 67:11)—which means precisely the same thing.
In Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice" Shylock demands the literal fulfillment of the bond that Antonio has forfeited, and insists upon his "pound of flesh, to be by him cut off nearest the merchant's heart." Portia, pleading for Antonio, entreats the Jew to be merciful. "Upon what compulsion must I?" he asks. Then Portia:
"The quality of mercy is not strain'd: It droppeth, as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath; it is twice bless'd; It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes; 'Tis mightiest in the mightiest; it becomes The throned monarch better than his crown. His sceptre shows the force of temporal power, The attribute to awe and majesty, Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings; But mercy is above this sceptred sway, It is enthroned in the hearts of kings, It is an attribute to God himself; And earthly power doth then show likest God's When mercy seasons justice."
This plea, so sublime in letter and in spirit, having failed to melt the hard-hearted money-lender, Portia next reads into the bloodthirsty bond an interpretation so literal that it completely baffles the cruel and vindictive schemer, takes him in his own snare, and rescues the merchant from his peril. It was a triumph of letter over letter, one might say. But it was also a triumph of the Spirit.
There are times, however, when the Letter almost crowds the Spirit off the platform. Here is an instance. A pious father was taking to task his little son for uncharity; the boy having angrily expressed himself over some wrong, real or fancied, done him by another. "You shouldn't talk that way about your little playmate," said the father, "haven't you thought how you might heap coals of fire on his head?" "No," said the boy, "I hadn't thought of it, but it's a peach of an idea." The young Shylock!
Many things are implied that are not expressed; what is told being suggestive and inclusive of the untold. In the revelations of God given to the Church in these days, the chewing or smoking of tobacco is inhibited; but that does not leave morphine unbanned. The "dope fiend" is also a breaker of the Word of Wisdom. Again, the excessive or untimely use of "the fowls of the air" for food, is discountenanced; but the fowls of the barnyard, though unmentioned, are not omitted, but are included by implication. Gluttony is a vice, as well as drunkenness, no matter what the gourmand gorges himself upon. All excesses are hurtful to health, whether or not they be "nominated in the bond." All are infractions of divine law, the intent of which (as in human law) should always be weighed and considered—not the letter alone.
In "seeking for wisdom out of the best of books," as we have been commanded, we need the Holy Spirit as an interpreter, lest we blunder and go astray. The letter, alone, is an insufficient guide. Like "faith without works," it is "dead." But the Spirit cannot err. The letter, with the conflicting interpretations put upon it, is responsible for disputations and contentions, against which we are solemnly warned. By the letter we are divided. By the Spirit we see eye to eye, and are made acceptable to Him who has said: "Except ye are one, ye are not mine."