What it Means to Understand Religion By A. C. Lambert
"Until man becomes either a lotus-eater or a God he will believe and pray and worship. So long as man remains man, 'who partly is and wholly hopes to be,' he will be incurably religious." So long as men refuse to turn their backs on the great adventure of living; so long as men refuse to admit that fear cowardice, and self-seeking can permanently dominate personality; so long as men refuse to turn their faces from the search for good, which is found in the life of God revealed to men—just so long will religion remain. For religion is the way of spiritual self-fulfillment. It is the way in which men find the ultimate significance of life's practices and beliefs when life and the world are interpreted as a whole.
Though religion has been most variously defined, its continuing reality as a human experience and an integral part of human living must be recognized. Demonstration of the validity of the fact of religious experience comes through examination of the observable experiences and practices of human beings. Demonstration of the value of religious experiences is found in the feeling life of innumerable human beings. Demonstration of the ultimate truthfulness of religious doctrines and practices comes through (1) acceptance by individuals and groups of revelations from God, and pronouncements of those authorized to speak for God, (2) recognition of their consistency with other accepted truths empirically established, (3) recognition of their demonstrated power to reconstruct human lives and human institutions in directions universally recognized as "better" and good, and (4) their felt value to the individual. Any one of the four methods gains strength when supplemented by all the others.
The ultimate key to a real understanding of any religion is to feel it. That means more than to secure a knowledge of its doctrines, its theology, its ritual, its ethical and moral precepts, its ecclesiastical organization and machinery, its sacred shrines and its temples; for these, though inherently necessary, are but the body of the religion, and not its life-blood; its externals, not its reality. A religion to be understood and to be appreciated as a driving power to spiritual self-realization must, in some degree, be experienced.
Really to understand a religion one must put himself in the place of the believers and practicers of that religion. He must have been troubled as they have been troubled. He must have struggled for spiritual light and growth as they have struggled. He must have felt God's presence as they have felt it. He must have risen through belief from sin and despair as they have risen. He must have suffered as they have suffered. He must have conquered as they have conquered. Short of this, no one may adequately understand a religious system or a great religious life.
But with understanding can come appreciation of religion as a fundamental and natural expression of life. With understanding comes less bitterness in criticism of dogma and practice. With understanding comes more intelligent toleration and cooperation between individuals whose creed, ritual, and symbols take different forms.
Ultimately, truth is individual truth. Many truths of religion may be demonstrable truths; and in order to be universally or generally accepted, they must be such truths. Empirical method is one method of demonstrating truth, and it has proved its value and place as an instrument and a creation of human thought. But ultimately, truth in religion, like truth in knowledge, is felt truth. Truth and knowledge come to be demonstrated, accepted, and depended upon, by reason of the general and continuing uniformity in the way human beings think and feel about it. Let men not delude themselves in thinking that they think beyond thought.
It is, therefore, perhaps true that much of religion must remain sacredly intimate and individual. That fact need not weaken the fundamental significance of religion as a general human experience and a valuable possession for group preservation. Rather it should make men think more deeply on their own true selves, perchance to learn anew the worth of faith in human life, perchance to learn again that truth itself has many sides, that values have no meaning unless felt by human souls, and that striving after God brings light and life and hope, and in the end makes better men. In learning of all this, we come more adequately to understand religion.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE  Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah