The Dedicatory Exercises for the Angel Moroni Monument By Kate M. Barker
A MONUMENT has been erected on the Hill Cumorah. No monument in the world commemorates greater things—for it stands as a testimony to the world that God lives and Jesus is the Christ—that His gospel of peace and joy has been restored to the world. It was erected by a grateful people, to whom this gospel of peace and joy have come and who because of their love for God and humanity wish to share the blessing with a world struggling for happiness. This spirit of gratitude and love permeated all of the exercises at the dedication of the monument and the four day conference which was held at the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred grove July 21, 22, 23 and 24.
About five hundred members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints came from the east and west, from near and far, to attend the services. The General Authorities present were—President Heber J. Grant and President David O. McKay, Elders Rudger Clawson, George Albert Smith, Melvin J. Ballard and Charles A. Callis, of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles; Sylvester Q. Cannon, of the Presiding Bishopric; Elder John Taylor, of the First Seven Presidents of the Seventies; representatives of all the General Boards of the auxiliary organizations of the Church; presidents of missions and of stakes. Some of the outstanding artists of the Church gave of their talent to make the exercises beautiful in keeping with the sublime theme. The readers were Grace Nixon Stewart, Norma Fairbanks and Roscoe Grover. The musicians were Margaret Romaine, Constance Reese Hills, Rulon Y. Robison, Edwin Tout and a chorus of missionaries from the Eastern States Mission.
For several weeks the elders had been working in the neighborhood and the response was remarkable. Several hundred visitors were at the dedicatory services. The people of Palmyra generously opened their homes for the accommodation of the visiting Latter-day Saints. The Boy Scouts of Palmyra furnished music for the Tuesday evening program. In fact from every side one felt the spirit of friendship and co-operation. Sunday afternoon Judge S. Nelson Sawyer and Judge Robert F. Thompson gave expression to this new spirit of tolerance
532
and appreciation in their very fine addresses. Judge Sawyer officially represented the town of Palmyra. He was born there and had known and talked to people who had known the Prophet. He said that he acknowledged with shame the prejudice and persecution which had existed but he was happy now to have the opportunity, on behalf of the people of Palmyra, to welcome the Mormon people with open arms. He has long been a fine friend of our people. It is hard to understand the intolerance and persecution at the time of the Prophet and. Yet we can probably appreciate the more the independence of mind and the generous friendship of one who in his youth was surrounded by this early bitterness and prejudice.
THE dedicatory services were held Sunday morning, July 21st, at the foot of the Hill—the speaker's stand having been erected on a spot near to
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
where the sacred records had been buried. President Heber J. Grant presided and President Don B. Colton, of the Eastern States Mission, conducted the exercises. At ten o'clock four trumpeters standing on, the peak of the hill near the veiled monument silhouetted against a blue sky, raised the plaintive melody the "Nephite Lamentation." The music was taken up in poetry as a man's voice was heard—
"Now, what do we hear in the gospel which we have received? A voice of gladness! A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of truth out of the earth; glad tidings for the dead; a voice of gladness for the living and the dead; glad tidings of great joy. How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that bring glad tidings of good things, and that say unto Zion: Behold, thy God reigneth! As the dews of Carmel, so shall the knowledge of God descend upon them!
"And again, what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfilment
HILL CUMORAH, JOSEPH SMITH FARM, PALMYRA, NEW YORK
DEDICATORY EXERCISES
of the prophets—the book to be revealed.
533
and like fuller's soap; and he shall sit as A voice of the Lord in the wilderness of Fayette, Seneca county, declaring the three witnesses to bear record of the book! The voice of Michael on the banks of the Susquehanna, detecting the devil when he appeared as an angel of light! The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county, and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehanna river, declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times!
"And again, the voice of God in the chamber of old Father Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county, and at sundry times, and in divers places through all the travels and tribulations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! And the voice of Michael, the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels, from Michael or Adam down to the present time, all declaring their dispensation, their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little; giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope!
"Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, brethren; and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained, before the world was, that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free.
"Let the mountains shout for joy, and all ye valleys cry aloud; and all ye seas and dry lands tell the wonders of your Eternal King! And ye rivers, and brooks, and rills, flow down with gladness. Let the woods and all the trees of the field praise the Lord; and ye solid rocks weep for joy! And let the sun, moon, and the morning stars sing together, and let all the sons of God shout for joy! And let the eternal creations declare his name forever and ever! And again I say, how glorious is the voice we hear from heaven, proclaiming in our ears, glory, and salvation, and honor and immortality, and eternal life; kingdoms, principalities, and powers!
"Behold, the great day of the Lord is at hand; and who can abide the day of his coming, and who can stand when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire, a refiner and purifier of silver, and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. Let us, therefore, as a church and a people, and as Latter-day Saints, offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us present in his holy temple, when it is finished, a book containing the records of our dead, which shall be worthy of all acceptation."—Doc. And Cov. 128:19-24.
Then a woman's voice—
"The promise was fulfilled as ever are Predictions made by prophets of the Lord, Until upon the land no Nephite lived, Except Moroni, ancient seer and bard.
"Then buried in the dust, in silent stone The sacred plates, the messenger of gold, To lie untouched in soundless tomb of earth,
"Until a youth, unlettered and unlearned, But tutored in the school of Elohim, Should roll away the rock, the treasure view, And usher in a dispensation new.
"To every man who will the sacred tome Peruse in quest of truth, with prayerful heart, Shall come the sweet assurance from on high, That it a hallowed history contains;
"A story of the West in ancient time, And that the gospel found within its lids, Is not man's spoken word, but God's Divine.
"Fear God for aye, and glory to Him give, For lo, the hour of judgment is at hand, And worship Him, who made the earth and sky.
"And surging sea, and all that they contain, For unto men the Master shall descend, In glory, power and righteousness to reign.
"Awake Jerusalem and shout His praise, Arise ye everlasting hills and sing, For in the latter days from Kolob far, Shall come to earth in majesty, her King."*
*"The Master's Other Sheep"—by Chas. W. Dunn.
534
We then relived the events of the past as the speakers vividly recalled the history of the spot on which the services were being held;—God's goodness and power in leading a group of His children to this continent; their achievements; the great civilization built by them; the visit of Jesus to "His other sheep;" the joy and happiness which was theirs when they lived near to God; the sorrow that came with sin—until the fields, which now are covered with beautiful and luxuriant vegetation, literally ran with blood; how for two centuries the nations on this continent fought almost to the point on annihilation; how one mighty prophet and warrior, Moroni, sealed up in the Hill a record of his people to come forth at some future time by the power of God as a testimony of Jesus. They spoke of the world's struggle for happiness—of the sin and suffering in the search for truth; and then of the young boy whose faith was so perfect that Our Father in Heaven could speak again through him to the world; of the courage and strength of the young Prophet who through ridicule and persecution met every test of sincerity and faithfulness, until the golden plates were given to him by their guardian, the angel Moroni; and, who through the gift of the Spirit was able to translate the records to stand as a testimony to the world of Jesus and a revealing of His message. We sensed anew our responsibility in giving the world the opportunity to hear the message and of carrying the Book of Mormon to its final destiny—the salvation of the Lamanites—the descendants of Lehi. From the trumpeters on the hill came the beautiful music of "What Was Witnessed in the Heavens" as the monument was unveiled.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
THE dedicatory prayer. Was offered by President Heber J. Grant. Speaking for 750,000 people he fervently and sincerely expressed our thanks for the personal visitation of God and His Son to Joseph Smith, for the restoration of the gospel and the establishment again of His Church, for the prosperity and growth of the Church despite opposition and persecution and for the external evidences of the truth of the Book of Mormon that are constantly being discovered. He consecrated our lives to the task of helping all Our Father's children to receive the blessings of the gospel and dedicated the monument, hill, and grounds praying that they would be protected from the elements and stand as an ensign to the world.
THE monument was designed by Torlief S. Knaphus. It is erected on the peak of the Hill Cumorah, a shaft of Vermont granite thirty feet high and ten feet square, on the summit of which is a bronze figure of the Angel Moroni, nine feet high. At the bottom of the shaft are panels in bronze. On the west panel Moroni is represented delivering the plates to the young man Joseph. On the south panel an angel of the Lord is pictured standing before the three witnesses, holding the plates and showing them the engravings thereon. In addition to these witnesses the Prophet was permitted to show the plates to eight others. This is shown on the East panel. On the North panel is this quotation from the Book of Mormon: "And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are true; and if ye shall ask with a
DEDICATORY EXERCISES
sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, He will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost." Moroni 10:4.
The whole shaft has the appearance of a pillar of light with upward leading lines, each part symbolic of the organization of the Church. The architecture at the top of the granite shaft is reminiscent of early America. "The dove, in conventional design, hovers over the entire shaft, and represents the Holy Ghost whose presence has ever blessed great spiritual occasions from early antiquity until now, whenever and wherever the truth of the gospel has been upon the earth to enlighten and guide mankind."*
IN an impressive evening service huge flood lights, directed at the
*Pamphlet "The Angel Moroni Monument."
535
monument, were turned on. The light bathed the monument in a brilliant glow and it could be seen for several miles in all directions.
AND thus it stands a testimony in enduring bronze and granite that "God our Heavenly Father communicates with His children in these latter days, as He did formerly—by His Spirit, by His voice, by vision, and through messengers sent from Him." As President David O. McKay so beautifully expressed it in his address Sunday morning: "We do not erect this monument to express the wealth of the church, or the deeds—mighty as they were—that took place from 1820 to 1830 on this hallowed ground, but to express. Gratitude for the gospel of Jesus. It is a monument in answer to the question of the ages, 'If a man die shall he live again?' "
THE SACRED GROVE WHERE THE VISION APPEARED TO THE PROPHET
536
MONDAY and Tuesday meetings were held in the Sacred Grove. Here the greatest event in the modern world had taken place. Here we heard the living testimony of our leaders of today—strong and firm and certain. As President Grant reviewed the growth of the church and bore his testimony, unfaltering and unqualified, to the divinity of the latter-day work, the first vision seemed very real—and as President McKay expressed it we seemed "to stand in the presence of immortality." Perhaps never did Elder Ballard's favorite missionary song "I'll Go Where You Want Me To Go, Dear
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Lord," receive a more fervent response. As we looked up at the beautiful testimony in bronze and granite, as we listened to the absolute testimonies of our leaders and sensed the echo of that testimony in the hearts of those present in the Sacred Grove, as we heard the beautiful songs coming from the Hill, expressing the sublime faith of a great people—our hearts were filled with joy and peace and hope. Surely our people will re-dedicate their lives to His work—surely the world will hear and heed.