That Old "Rocking, Chair By Bessie C. Rasmussen I am only a broken down rocker, I've been mended, wired, and nailed; If I only could talk like the folks do, I could tell when they won, or they failed. I was Mary's first gift from her husband, And I've known all the sorrows and joys; That she had as a bride, and a mother; {'ve helped raise a girl and four boys. I knew if the farm wasn't paying, Or the debts piling up by the score; Master John soon would come to my refuge, He and I, we would rock on the floor. And if he was happy and carefree, He would hum as he rocked to and fro; And if he was troubled or worried He would grip both my arms tight, and so— I would act as a comforter always, To Mary and John I| was true; As they sat in my framework so comfy, And dreamed and planned anew. Tears of sorrow and gladness I've witnessed, Sickness, laughter, and many a sigh; As I've listened to life passing onward, Sympathetic, but silent was I. I acted as cradle for baby, I was given to guests as the best; I-was even the cause of the first quarrel, When John held me up as a jest. As the cause of a meal being served late, When Mary was painting me blue; How I'd liked to 'ave been able to tell John, That I knew a secret or two, How each morning before he left Mary He would come to my side, say in fun: "I must go now dear, give me a luck kiss, You may sit in my chair till I come." "I'm just joking, enjoy the chair, Darling, It was bought for your comfort alone; How I love to see you and the babies, Sitting here in our very own home." I helped teach five children, their first songs, I acted as time keeper, see— Mary rocked and sang the tunes of the song; And I counted out, one, two, three. I knew first, that Alice was planing, To marry young Bob, first of May; In fact, I was the cause of the asking, Alice sat in me posing that day. I gave Billy his chance at the college, I helped Alton to get his first B; I also was aid, when Jack's clarinet played, I helped Max to get his degree, They call me Mom's old fashioned rocker, But little they know, just how I-— Helped to bring up that family of Mary's and John's; What a trial they all were, oh my! But today they are mending my rockers, And are painting me up again blue; I'm to go and. Rock the new babies; Bob and Alice has twins, Bill and Sue. So I'm still some use as a rocker, As a comforter, still I have charms; And when you are weary and need a rest, You'll find me with open arms.