Notes from the Field Pocatello Stake HE Pocatello Stake Board of Relief Society sponsored a "HuiNui" (Maori word for Big Time), in December, 1934. A two-day bazaar was held in which seven city Ward Relief Societies participated. There were booths for aprons, children's clothes, art goods, kitchen articles, artificial flowers, quilts, candy, etc. One corner of the large stake hall was devoted to a Colonial Kitchen where, backed by old-fashioned dressers holding pewter and "THE LAND O' COTTON," POCATELLO STAKE old china, a cafeteria luncheon was served each day, the waitresses costumed in old colonial frocks. The bazaar was a great success, financially as well as otherwise, nearly all the articles being disposed of. The last evening was devoted to a minstrel show, "The Land O' Cotton," directed by Mrs. G. N. Brunker. This was more than a minstrel show, it was an artistic production, with some of the best talent of the city, singers and dancers taking part in the cast of fifty people. The costumes were in black and white, as were also the decorations of the stage and hall, and the various booths. The Stake Board received many compliments on the success of their venture along these lines. Anniversary Day THE General Board is delighted with reports of celebrations held throughout the organization to commemorate the founding of our great Society. There were pageants, musicals and combination programs depicting the organization and the various phases of the work. We trust that this day will ever be remembered and revered as the day the women of the Church received official recognition. Maricopa Stake HE Mesa First Ward has been using the kitchen adjoining the Relief Society room as a medium of exchange. On each meeting day the members are urged to bring anything NOTES FROM THE FIELD of which they have a surplus and these are sold or exchanged after the meetings. Among things brought are: fresh fruits, pickles and all kinds of home baking, art work and handmade articles. It is the hope that each member will sell enough to cover the year's subscription price of the Relief Society Magazine, the Annual Dues, and a little or big surplus for her own pin money. Lethbridge Stake N the top of a huge birthday cake used as a center piece at the Anniversary Day Dinner, in Lethbridge Ward, was a globe of the world upon which was placed a figure of a woman holding a huge candle. LETHBRIDGE WARD BIRTHDAY CAKE Through this design the message of the Relief Society was given that this great organization is international in scope and influence, and a light to the women of the world. Candles were grouped about the 567 cake and table, and as they were lighted it was explained that they represented a number of the charter members of the Society, the enrollment of the members of the Ward, and the number of books in the Old Testament. The lighting of the last large candle was to symbolize the great light of truth that was shed over the world when the Prophet of these modern times spoke the significant words: "I now turn the keys for you in the name of God, and this Socity shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time." The light of the tiny candles represented the glowing light of all women who had enlisted in Relief Society work. The three members of the Presidency cut the cake, which was served with ice cream. Western States Mission MESSAGES are constantly coming from our missions reporting varied activities and excellent work. Who would have thought that a conference could be held in Denver during the last year (1934) with representatives from sixteen branches out of twenty-six, including delegates from Colorado, Nebraska, New Mexico, Wyoming, Iowa and South Dakota? The members in Denver opened their homes to those from the other localities, which lessened the expense very greatly for the visitors. In connection with the convention there was a splendid display of handwork made by the sisters all over the mission, which pleased them all very much. The Denver papers very generously published notices of the conference, reports of the meetings and pictures of the officers of the various branches. Mrs. Winifred B. Daynes, President of the Relief Societies of the mission, was overjoyed with the 568 results of the conference as well as were all others who helped to make it such a success.: Panguitch Stake (South Ward) N the "Notes" published in the April, 1935, Magazine we regret that an error was made regarding the gift of a set of Relief Society Magazines. The Magazines, consisting of a complete set from the beginning of the publication, was contributed to the Panguitch South Ward by Mrs. Sarah LeFever Houston, instead of to the Panguitch Stake, as was stated. Relief Society Project HE General Board has received so many reports of the excellent work being done in the various stakes and missions on the Relief Society Project, that space will not permit their publication. They have been carefully read, however, and are filed for reference. They have added greatly to the ideas, suggestions and information of General Board members who, in their travels about the stakes, will be able, through them, to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pass on valuable suggestions regarding what others are doing. It is a great satisfaction to the General Board that this Project is receiving so much attention, and that through the interest and ingenuity of our stake and ward officers so many families are being greatly benefited. Northwestern States Mission (Tacoma Branch) SISTER who had recently affiliated with the Tacoma Relief Society wrote several very inspiring verses regarding this new opportunity which had come to her. One of these we publish:
"It's almost a year since I came here, To sunny Tacoma and you. When I think of the things I have learned here It seems too good to be true.
I hardly know how to express this, It's been such a wonderful treat. With the lessons and broad information And friendships endearing and sweet."
PAGEANT GIVEN BY MONTPELIER STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Montpelier Stake
A BEAUTIFUL pageant was presented in Montpelier Stake in February, 1935, featuring the Bible. The pageant was so successful that there was a special request that it be repeated, which was done. All the married people in the community were invited, including non-members of the Church. There was so much interest in this pageant that it has been used by other stakes.
Relief Society Magazine: Mrs. Agnes Pearce, a former Relief Society President of Montpelier Stake, presented her complete set of Relief Society Magazines, from 1914 to 1935, to the stake, and they are now being bound for permanent reference.
Rigby Stake
RIGBY Stake reports an art institute which was most unique and interesting. Fancy needlework and many beautiful quilts were displayed. Demonstrations in basketry, painting, crepe paper, rug making, cut work, tatting and yarn work were
569
given. A department for cooking and beverages was very popular. Chloe Laker is the Stake Art Director.
Relief Society Magazine Campaign (Duchesne Stake)
THE report of the Magazine Drive in Duchesne Stake came to the office too late to be included with the other stakes doing good work. We congratulate the women of this stake on the number of subscriptions received, and thank them for the effort made.
Nevada Stake
IN their enthusiastic Magazine Drive last year, the Nevada Stake adopted the slogan "A Relief Society Magazine in every home." A contest was inaugurated to procure original ideas on means and ways of making and saving one hundred pennies or the one dollar for one year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine. The rules were:
1. Any Relief Society member or officer is eligible to send them in at any time until September 1, 1934.
HAWAIIAN MISSION
570
2. Decision to be made by the three judges to be final.
3. The prize to go to the winner of their decision.
4. On a separate slip your name and address enclosed in the same envelope.
5. Send directly to Dora Atkinson, Box 1815, McGill, Nevada.
Hawaiian Mission
WE are in receipt of a delightful letter from Sister Verna F. Murphy, President of the Relief Societies of the Hawaiian Mission. She reports the safe return of the Hawaiian delegates which attended the April, 1935, conference. It was a great pleasure to receive this delegation and to become better acquainted with our members from across the sea.
Liberty Stake
AS an outgrowth of two years' study of the history of music, the Relief Societies of Liberty Stake presented a closing musicale. Beginning with the music made by the morning stars when they sang together on the morning of creation, and tracing music through the years in both its secular and sacred forms, the history of music was completely presented. The facts themselves, gleaned from a comprehensive notebook carefully kept by the Stake Organist, Adeline Ensign, were cast into poetry by Claire Stewart Boyer and read to appropriately selected
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
organ music. Instrumental music was represented by the harp, the organ and an instrumental trio. Vocal developments ran the gamut from the first hymn, the Magnificat, sung by Mary when she visited Elizabeth, through a speaking choir, the folk song, opera and oratorio. The choruses were composed of more than 200 Relief Society members. Mabel Poulton Kirk and Olive Hickman conducted the choruses while Adeline Ensign accompanied both reader and choruses upon the organ. Love of music was the aim and it can best be expressed in the following excerpt:
Music
Music is eternal spirit, eternally revealed, God is the author, the composer and the director, Each voice is an instrument in his hands; Love is the melody and truth the words; Life plays upon all instruments; Here are the violins that carry the beauty along, Here are the winds, the low sweet echo of motive in song, Here are the tones of brass going cling, clong. So is the symphony divine.
Music gives joy that is art, fair art, Music gives courage that good deeds may start, Music lifts high the hope of the heart— So is the symphony divine.
—Claire Stewart Boyer.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
LOUISE YATES ROBISON: President AMY BROWN LYMAN: First Counselor KATE M. BARKER: Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND: General Secretary and Treasurer
THE GENERAL BOARD
Emma A. Empey Ethel Reynolds Smith Hazel H. Greenwood Annie Wells Cannon Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Mary Connelly Kimball Lalene H. Hart Elise B. Alder Janet M. Thompson Lotta Paul Baxter Inez K. Allen Belle S. Spafford Cora L. Bennion Ida P. Beal Donna Durrant Sorensen Amy Whipple Evans Marcia K. Howells
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager: Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager: Amy Brown Lyman