God Remembers By Grace Zenor Pratt T had been a rather tiresome day for the collector for the automobile company; not an enviable position at best. But just now conditions were very bad; money was so scarce that the company was suffering many losses. Sometimes Anthony Kane grew almost disgusted with himself at finding it necessary to oversee this end of things; a sort of mental nausea at extracting debts from people that some glib salesman had intrigued. Perhaps oftener than not, the buyer had been reluctant, well meaning and honest at heart, but there was always the piper to pay and sometimes Anthony felt as if he were the piper. It was a hot day of early summer; the dust was stifling; the food at these small settlements, mostly tortillas of corn and flour, and beans seasoned with chili, tomatoes and onion, became revolting during this warm season. The water, too, was bad in some districts. He would have a few more stops here and there among the straggling ranchos then would be on his way to headquarters in the city. He was rather discouraged. His success had been but meagre and he was not taking a very optimistic report to his company's office. He wondered vaguely if he was merely tired or if he were becoming a pessimist. There were stretches of desert where heat waves glimmered and skimmed over the trackless waste lands and the car wheels sent up the choking dust in clouds. There were occasional haciendas with a few stunted fruit trees, a little church of plastered adobe and a few humbler dwellings clustered about; sometimes, but not often, there was a shallow river whose tortuous windings the cottonwoods followed persistently as cottonwoods have a way of doing in Mexico. Once he stopped at a big rancho where a pack of dogs hailed his approach with violence and the inmates were taking their afternoon siesta. A cool drink from the big deep well under the fig trees in the patio and a half-hour's rest in the shade were almost a recompense for the failure of the courteous Don to produce a payment now long overdue. WHEN he again resumed his journey the afternoon was nearly spent. Business made it necessary to be in Torreon early tomorrow. There were many miles yet before him. It would take until late into the night to reach his destination even with the best of luck. However, it was much pleasanter driving in the evening. There was a good moon and a breeze made the air refreshing. As dusk fell the country became more desolate; but the giant cacti and desert palms broke the monotony of the moonlit plain. The headlights revealed far ahead another road which coverged with the one he now traveled. He had known of this road before but he had never before taken it. But now, as he slackened speed, he felt impressed somehow, to take this new road, though it would be a longer and rougher route. Against his better judgment he turned the car marveling at that unseen force which so impelled him. Soon he became reassured as his 564 speedometer reeled off the kilometers and the weariness he had felt earlier left him. He was content with life and all it had offered and given him. Presently he looked at his watch. It was a few minutes to ten o'clock. By midnight he should reach his hotel in the city and its comfort would be welcome. The ruggedness increased; he could make but little time. Surroundings took on an unfamiliar aspect. Perhaps he had been foolish to follow this whim; whims were elusive things. He must keep a look out for some goatherd's camp or a light from a dwelling where he might inquire concerning the original highway. On that other road there were frequent sinall settlements and it was decidedly easier going. At any rate he must be in Torreon early tomorrow; it was imperative, he had never failed to keep an appointment yet. As if in answer to his necessity a clump of trees came into view: a few giant walnut trees sheltering a roadside spring. There would be dwellings near at hand. Yes! There they were, a few straggling adobe huts and the inevitable chapel crowning the little hill, He noticed how the dark cross was outlined against the sky. As he passed through the one narrow street he saw the houses were in darkness but a pack of mongrel dogs appeared and emphasized their welcome of him. Ah—there was the light. And he stopped at the adobe wall of an old hacienda. There was a group of men at the big iron gate and a few stragglers outside who paused curiously before passing. The big house was lighted and there seemed to be confusion. As Kane stopped in front of the entrance and turned off his motor he heard a woman's sobs. A-priest in his long black robe passed across the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE road to the chapel, fingering his crucifix. "Buenos Noches", Kane greeted the group at the gate, quietly, and in his fluent Spanish he told them he had taken the wrong road and asked direction to the city. Before he had finished the gate was opened. "Si, Senor, entra," and a young man left the group and hurried into the house. "We have a very sick man here," the speaker explained. '"The good God has surely sent you. Could you not take the sick man with you? There is no other way." Before Kane could reply the boy who had hastened away from the group returned bringing with him an elderly man who appeared to be in despair. He extended his hand to Kane. "Buenos Noches, Senor. My beloved son is dying. For the love of the Holy Virgin, hasten and take him to the great city! We are but the very poor here. I am a caretaker in the hacienda. There are no automobiles here and by wagon... That would be too late!" The American hesitated for an instant. There had been an epidemic of small pox throughout the district —perhaps—but no! There had been a gay party—a senorita's smile—a lover's quarrel, and the senorita's brother flushed with wine had used a knife in the darkness. Carlos was bleeding to death. Kane understood in that moment of revealing certainty exactly why he had taken the strange road. An almost divine exultation thrilled him. With him, rested the ultima-. Tum whether this boy should live or die and God must will that he should live by all that had occurred. Quickly and silently they set about their task. The wounded man was made as comfortable as possible in the tonneay of the car. He was GOD REMEMBERS young, slender, and far spent; unconscious now, and the heavy bandages were stained scarlet. An older brother supported him tenderly, and as Kane drove swiftly through the night the grey haired father murmured broken fragments—of prayer for his son, interspersed with murmured thanks to the Senor Americano whom the Virgin had_ sent. These were the only sounds. Which broke the silence as the motor hummed smoothly across the miles bringing them nearer their destination. It was an hour past midnight when the lights of the city appeared far ahead and a half-hour later they stopped in front of the big white hospital where: attendants took charge of the patient. Anthony waited for a few moments to hear the verdict after the examination. He was very weak, they said, but there was a splendid fighting chance. ANE felt a certain satisfaction and joy in knowing he had been instrumental in bringing relief in time of need; a gratitude, that he had listened to that intangible voice which had made this possible. He was preparing to drive away when someone called to him, and the father of Carlos was beside the car. "If the Senor Americano can spare me but a moment I will tell him that which is in my heart,' he said. "Some men might say it was but chance brought you our way tonight, but it was God! He is good. Many times has he come to me in my need. There was a time when my poverty was greater than now: there was drought and we had but little food. I could find no work. With sorrow I saw my children hungry. I went to the pueblo early one morning to try and get food. I was weak and I sat down in a doorway to rest. I heard voices inside the store speaking and my name was mentioned. A stranger was searching for me. A distant relative had sent a bag of beans and one of corn from a distant village; and the stranger sought to find me. God had led me there, Senor. And that night I knelt in the chapel and gave thanks to him. And so it has always been in my greatest need. God remembers." The old man paused and bared his head in the moonlight. There was only the sound of the night wind through the dusty pepper trees as the American and the grateful peon clasped hands in the silence of understanding hearts.