Grandma Hutchins—Diplomat By Mildred A. Dawson
THE mid-morning sun was flooding through the cheery bay window where Grandma Hutchins sat at her knitting, her simple household duties already completed. The steady click-clack of the needles never ceased though her eyes watchfully identified passers-by and deploringly followed procrastinating Mrs. Hewling, who was hanging up her washing on Tuesday, not Monday as an efficient housewife should.
"These young people! I'm 'shamed of them—using the day of rest for sport and staying up so late nights for their shows and dances that they can't get up on Monday morning. What is this world—!"
But Grandma never finished, for a brisk step sounded on the piazza and the door was flung open to reveal Nancy, Sammy's wife. Grandma's placid face lit up as she exclaimed, "How nice! Such an early visit! How did you ever get your morning's work done so early with that big house of—?" but again Grandma stopped short for she saw a storm-racked face and anger-glinting eyes.
"Why, Nancy! Whatever's the matter! What's wrong?"
"Granny, I'm going to get a divorce—that's what! I can't stand another day with Sammy. He's just hateful!" Then at sight of Granny's startled eyes and stricken face. "Oh, Granny, I'm sorry—sorry, I mean for you. I do love you and know how bad you'll feel. But Sammy treated me awful. I never want to see him again!"
Granny's nimble brain that had met many a crisis back in homesteading days clicked into a quick decision. She had her secret plan—now to put it into execution.
"Deary, I am sorry, but I know you wouldn't be so hurt unless Sammy'd been pesky mean and I'll do all I can to help you. So long as your mother's way off in Iowa, you'll have to stay around here for a day or so until you've seen a lawyer and gotten packed. I want you to stay here, not at any of your friends', because I'm fond of my grandson, Sammy, too, and he'll have to keep on living here in Red Buttes, and the less others know, the better, don't you think? Now tell Granny all about it."
"Well, I worked like a horse all day yesterday and a lot of thanks I got for it! I had my wash on the line by 9:30—all my table linen and the guest-room bedding included. Then I ran the vacuum over the rug and dusted before I got lunch. After we ate, I sprinkled the clothes, washed the dishes, took my electric iron down town to be fixed, and then I ironed."
"Land sakes, child! Whatever did you do all that in one day for? There was another day coming?"
"Oh, I know—but you see I planned to drive to Ogden today because Benson's are starting their big silk sale this morning at 8:30 and I wanted to get first pick. So I had to get the house cleaned up for Relief Society at my house Wednesday. Well, anyway I ironed until 6:30, then started to get supper. I was tired enough to drop. Sammy came in and bawled me out for not having supper on the table! I just couldn't take it, Granny. I blew up and told him just what I thought of him. What if he did have to go to school-
GRANDMA HUTCHINS—DIPLOMAT
board meeting at 7:30! And, Granny, he said the awfulest things— What kind of a wife did he have anyway! What help was she—making him late to meetings—not having meals ready when there was nothing but a house to keep straight— going out to teas and parties—that's what she did! And I was yelling back just as good as he sent. It was terrible! Anyway I put on some bread, a bottle of milk, what was left of Sunday's roast and then went upstairs. I couldn't eat—and I haven't seen him since."
"Poor dear! Men just can't understand how tired we get. Land sakes! Eleven-thirty already. Better stay for lunch, then I'll go down with you to Lawyer Stout's. You can help me by setting the table and now let's talk about something else. You know vittles don't set easy when we're all het up." And Granny rattled on about that good-for-naught Mrs. Hewling who never washed on Monday, about Si Lewis' rheumatics, Mary Brown's new pattern for crocheted edging, and what not.
LUNCH was almost over when a hasty heavy step came up the back walk. "That's Sammy!' and Nancy dashed pell-mell into Granny's sacred parlor. Just in time, for Sammy catapulted into the kitchen excitedly.
"Granny, where's Nancy? Isn't she here? Oh, Granny, she's left me! I just found a note saying that she's leaving for Iowa and that she never wants to see me again. She just can't mean it! We did have an awful quarrel last night because she didn't have supper ready when she knew that I had a meeting. But, heavens! I didn't think she'd take it that hard. I can't get along without her. I just got to get hold of her. Where d'yuh suppose she's gone?"
Granny's eyes were stern. "Young
547
man, you should be shamed of yourself! Nancy is plain sweet and works so hard. Not many young wives in your bunch do their own washing and ironing and cleaning. If she had supper late last night, there must have been some reason and I s'pose you didn't give her a chance to explain. And she wouldn't run off if you hadn't hurt her like mischief. Any man that can't be decent to his wife don't deserve one. Shame on you! A short pause while Sammy gulped. "Well, young man, did you have your lunch?"
"Why no, Granny." His eyes dropped to the table. "Granny! Granny! Who was here for lunch? Nancy's here! I knew it! Where is she?" And Sammy started a dash for the door into the sitting room.
"Oh, no, you don't! You're not seeing Nancy. She don't ever want to set eyes on you again, and I'm not letting you pick on her in my house."
"Pick on her! I'm not going to pick on her. I want to ask her forgiveness."
"Humph! So that's all you think you have to do to make things right. Well, it won't do. You ain't leaving this room except by the back door and that only after you've eaten your lunch. Set down!" And Sammy did and left meekly a few minutes later.
Nancy emerged from her hiding place with an air fully as resentful as any advocate of woman's rights could have wished.. Sammy could stew all he wanted. He had said far too much last night. No wife with any spirit would relent just because a man had said he was sorry. Words are cheap. Granny glanced at Nancy speculatively and sized up the situation, with a twinge of disappointment. Things were not going quite as she had planned—Nancy was supposed to begin relenting when
548
Granny got so spunky with him. Quick as thought she assumed an air of outrage.
"The very idee! To think that Sammy thought he could fly off the handle and say you was standing in his way and then try to make up by just saying 'I'm sorry.' Humph! He has another think coming. I'm going to set these dishes aside and go with you to Lawyer Stout's. So you're always partying and giving him late suppers. The very idee! Come, let's go."
It would have been too bad for Grandma's scheme if Nancy had seen the twinkle in her eyes and the smirk about her mouth as she went in search of her jet-trimmed black bonnet of a decade-old vintage. Her face was sober enough when she again faced Nancy at the front door. Silently the two closed the door behind them and paced slowly to the street. Then Grandma Hutchins began thoughtfully:
"I guess we old folks live in the past too much, Nancy. I can't keep from forgetting your troubles and thinking myself back when I was a young wife too. 'Twas nigh onto fifty years ago but it seems as real as if I was in the door of my new cabin again. It is near six in the morning and I am standing looking at the perky colors on the clouds in the east. I am just that tired because little John has cried near the whole night with his teething and I have been up since four— cows to get from the far meadow, milk to skim, mush to cook, salt pork to sweeten before I fry it. The sunrise is so pretty that I stop my work to look at it and then I begin to think of the time a year ago when Father and I (you know I always called Grandpa Hutchins Father) was on our way west from Illinois. 'Twas about six of a morning when
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
we left Fort Bridger on the last lap of our long slow trip west. Oxen was mortal poky, Nancy. A lot different than Sammy's Chev—Shev—She—" Granny stammered.
"Chevrolet, Granny. Yes, it must have been an awful slow trip. I'd like to've gone in that old wagon though—like the high school picnics we took in the carryall over to the Iowa River."
"Well, that morning we left Fort Bridger was another beautiful sunrise and, soon after we started up the road from the fort, I saw the prettiest sight I ever did see. Just at the edge of the bluff we saw three deer with their heads raised a-listenin' to see what the noise of the creaking wagon meant. All about us were hundreds of quail a-slippin' through the grass and violets and cowslips. My! But it was pretty.
"So I stand thinking of that time a year gone by. I forget I'm tired. I just feast my eyes and then 'Susie! What does this mean? The table's not even set. Pork's scorched! Mush's dried up! You know I've got to get that sod broken up today and that I planned to be a-field fore now. What a wife you are!' so on, and so on, while I do the best I can to pick out some food that he can eat. The baby has woke up and is crying fit to kill. Well! I guess you know how I felt—but women didn't talk back in those days. I am burning up inside; all day long I steam and sizzle. Just to think of how I work eighteen hours every day: making my own starch from potatoes, molding candles, drawing water at the well house to chill the milk I carry a quarter mile from the house, churning butter, making cheese, grinding corn by hand for our meal of bread and mush, tending my poultry, baking, scrubbing, stilling the baby between whiles, cook-
GRANDMA HUTCHINS—DIPLOMAT
ing meal after meal for Father's uppity relatives—and so I count over my tasks. The more I count, the madder I get. At noon I set out a lunch, but go down to the well house and churn until Father goes back to the field. I tell you if the Union Pacific had run through Utah then, I'd have gone back to Illinois in a jiffy. But there wasn't no train— Pshaw, Nancy, how dull I must seem."
"Oh no, Granny! Stories of the old days are so interesting. I was all attention."
"Well, anyway, there wasn't no train and I stayed on—to sulk that evening at the supper table, to say nary a word to Father all that long day. Next morning he don't call me and goes for the cows hisself. I get up and hustle about, trying to keep my trouble out of my mind. Some way I hurt all over after crying to myself most of the night. And Johnnie is so cross! The whole world seems to have gone hay-wire —ain't that what you young folks say ?—and I so far from my friends and family. No one to talk to. Again I go to the door, look at the sunrise, and wonder how it could have seemed pretty yesterday. I like your
Nancy
549
'Just then an arm goes' round me and Father pulls me close and kisses me sweet-like. 'I'm sorry—turrible sorry. I didn't have no right to speak the way I did and I promise never to do it again. Never!' And he never did, Nancy. Times was different then, wasn't they? Women don't have to take so much nowadays. I'm glad you have spunk. Women need it. Well! Well! Here we are at Lawyer Stout's. You go in first, Nancy."
"Grandma, I'm not going in. I'm going home and make an upside-down cake. Sammy's always wanting me to make one. I must hurry! I'll be over tomorrow after the Society meeting."
"Sakes alive! Whatever changed your mind? Ain't you mad at Sammy?" Granny's eyes twinkled as she turned homeward. "Humph! Women don't change much. Just make them think that you think they're in the right, the man in the wrong, then give them some silly slush. What would Father think of the story I told about us? Fancy him ever getting soft-like. Humph! Oh, well—the dishes are still standing."