VOL. XXII SEPTEMBER, 1935 No. 9
EDITORIAL
M. I. A. Slogan
"WE STAND FOR SPIRITUALITY AND HAPPINESS IN THE HOME"
WE congratulate the M. I. A. on the selection of this timely slogan. For some years the trend has been away from the home until it has become all too often merely a place where meals were served and where people slept. A place to go away from for pleasure. There has not been time to read the Scriptures or cultivate spirituality in the home, for the members were flitting all the time. In too many cases the task of instilling spirituality in the hearts of the children has been left to the auxiliaries. This responsibility belongs primarily to the parents, it cannot be shifted, and the home is the nursery where it must be cultivated. All too many parents who have been so engrossed in business, church activities, or other affairs, that they have delegated their responsibility of training their children to organizations, will find when too late that no organization can take the place of mother and father and the home.
EVERY home should cooperate to make effective this slogan, "We stand for spirituality and happiness in the home." Home is the foundation of society where love and authority entwine. Men are and will ever be largely what their homes have made them. Fortunate are the children who in their youth have learned obedience, neatness, punctuality, courtesy, economy, respect and love in their homes. In this first of schools, they should learn not only to obey others, but to obey themselves. "Self-obedience is doing what you resolve to do, be it easy or hard; self-indulgence is doing what you want to do under the promptings of the taste or passion." Brent.
EVERY boy and girl should have duties in the home. This will
571
give them better chances of becoming fine personalities. Children who accept service without reciprocation become selfish and think that they should have whatever they can seize without paying the price. "The world is largely a world of compulsions." Those who in their homes have not been taught the inevitability of law and how "to convert a necessity into a virtue" are apt to become embittered or crushed when they go forth from the sheltering walls of the home.
VISION should be cultivated in the home, for while freedom of choice is a most desirable possession, its necessary concomitant, to make it worthwhile, is vision From earliest childhood children should have religious trust instilled into their minds. Brent truly says, "It is as
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ridiculous to leave a child to select his own religious belief and observances as to allow him to select his own literature, his own habits of dress, or his own food. The discipline of simple faith demanded of the child soul by spiritual affirmation, made by parents' lips and conduct, can have no substitute. It often springs in from the past, as the deciding factor in the life of a man, who under the stress of severe trial, is trembling on the brink of ruin, and would be lost but for this breath of a sacred yesterday."
In the home where spirituality is taught and lived, there will be happiness and those who go forth from such a home will be good citizens and will be trained and ready to do their part in carrying on the work of the church and the nation.