Lesson Department (For Second Week in February)
Theology and Testimony
LESSON V.
THE PROPHET IN RETIREMENT (Concluded)
1. Undaunted in Adversity. It is impressive to make note of the fact that even while the Prophet was in retirement and his enemies continuously sought to slay him, yet he went steadily forward in the cause of the Lord, exhorting, prophesying, and expounding the truth. His energy never slackened; he turned neither to the right nor the left. He cared but little for his own comfort and welfare; his first concern was for the saints. He feared no man, not even those who daily thought to destroy him. His one determination was to teach righteousness and to serve the God of Israel with all his might and soul. Little wonder that under such conditions he gave to the world some of the choicest truths of his ministry! In the present lesson, emphasis will be placed on the doctrinal development of the church during this period of persecution.
2. Soul Breathings of the Prophet. It is said that the true character of an individual is best shown under the stress of isolation and personal hardship. Under such conditions, the Prophet was staunch, and true, and unwavering.
3. His love for the saints is well shown in the following statement extracted from a letter written to Major-General Law of the Nauvoo Legion while the Prophet was in hiding: "We will take every measure that lays in our power, and make every sacrifice that God or man could require at our hands to protect the peace and safety of the people without collision. And if sacrificing my own liberty for months and years, * * * I bow to my fate with cheerfulness and all due deference, in consideration of the lives, safety, and welfare of others."
4. The Prophet's gratitude to those who assisted him during the time of his retirement is well voiced in the following words: "My heart would have been harder than an adamantine stone, if I had not prayed for them with anxious and fervent desire. I did so, and the still small voice whispered to my soul: These, that share your toils with such faithful hearts, shall reign with you in the kingdom of their God; but I parted with them in silence and came to my retreat. I hope I shall see them again, that I may toil for them, and administer to their comfort also. They shall not want a friend while I live; my heart shall love those, and my hands shall toil for those, who love and toil for me, and shall ever be found faithful to my friends. Shall I be ungrateful? Verily no! God forbid!" (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 109.)
5. The fervency of his prayer is surpassed perhaps only by that of the Master in Gethsemane. "O Thou, who seest and knowest the hearts of all men, * * * look down upon Thy servant Joseph at this time; and let faith on the name of Thy Son Jesus Christ, to a greater degree than Thy servant ever yet has enjoyed, be conferred upon him,
576
even the faith of Elijah; and let the lamp of eternal life be lit up in his heart, never to be taken away; and let the words of eternal life be poured upon the soul of. Thy servant, that he may know Thy will, Thy statutes, and Thy commandments, and Thy judgments, to do them." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 127.)
6. The Book of Abraham. In the preceding lesson it was pointed out that the Prophet was arrested in June of 1841 at the instigation of Governor Boggs of Missouri, on the charge of being a fugitive from justice. The case was later heard before Judge Stephen A. Douglas and the charge dismissed. Again in August of 1842 the Prophet was arrested on the charge of being an accessory before the fact in the shooting of ex-Governor Boggs. Within the interim between these two arrests, specifically during the winter of 1841-2, the Prophet completed the translation of the Book of Abraham and prepared it for publication. (For a full discussion of this matter the reader is referred to Roberts' Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. II, pp. 126-128.) The high character of the Prophet's work and the fidelity and accuracy with which he produced it, even in the face of bitter and relentless persecution, are unexplainable except that he was divinely inspired.
7. The Wentworth Letter. Another document of great historical and doctrinal importance was published at this time, specifically in the spring of 1842. It was written by the Prophet at the request of Mr. John Wentworth, editor and proprietor of the Chicago Democrat, who said that he wanted the information for his friend, Mr. Bastow, who was preparing a history of New Hampshire. Although the letter
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
comprises scarcely six pages in the Prophet's record, yet it is one of the most concise and at the same time comprehensive, narratives of early Church history to be found in Mormon literature. It also contains an unequalled epitome of Church doctrines, which has since been called the Articles of Faith. Almost countless numbers of the Articles of Faith have been published; they have been translated into many languages; and they have been carried to the ends of the earth. They were not written as the result of prolonged and studied effort. On the contrary, they were merely part of a letter sent to an inquiring friend.. Their conciseness, comprehensiveness, and simplicity of treatment may well be regarded as evidence that he who wrote them was indeed inspired of the Lord. (For the entire letter see History of the Church, Vol. IV, pp. 535-541.)
8. Prophecy regarding the Rocky Mountains. On the 6th day of August, 1842, while the extradition papers for the Prophet's return to Missouri were still pending, he in company with several others, went across the river to Montrose, Iowa. A number of the brethren were standing in the shade of a building discussing the subject of persecutions in Missouri and the constant annoyance that had followed the saints to Illinois and Iowa. The Prophet makes record of the following as part of the conversation: "I prophesied that the saints would continue to suffer much affliction and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains, many would apostatize, others would be put to death by our persecutors or lose their lives in consequence of exposure or disease, and some of you will live to go and assist in making settlements and build cities and see the saints become a mighty people in the midst of the
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Rocky Mountains." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 85.)
9. Anson Call, who was present when the prophecy was made, and who later came to Utah and helped in building several of its settlements, bears testimony that he heard the Prophet utter this prediction. He states that in front of the school house was a bowery, beneath which was a barrel of ice water. The Prophet had tasted the water and had warned the brethren not to drink too freely; then with the tumbler still in his hand, he made the prediction recorded above. (See History of the Church, Vol. V, pp. 85, 86.) The literal fulfilment of this prophecy is a matter of common knowledge.
10. Baptism for the Dead. Throughout the period of his retirement, the Prophet was deeply concerned in the matter of baptism for the dead. Although he had mentioned it on several previous occasions, yet it seemed to occupy an unusually prominent position in his mind at this time. When he appeared from seclusion and attended the meeting of the Relief Society, he informed those present that he intended to speak to the saints on this subject in the near future.
11. In the afternoon of September 1, 1842, during a brief respite of semi-seclusion at home, he addressed a letter to the saints dealing chiefly with this matter, but said that he was writing in haste because of the alertness of his enemies. He explained to the saints the cause of his seclusion and expressed the hope that he would soon be with them again. He adjured them to be diligent in their work on the temple; indeed he asked them to redouble their efforts, and reminded them that the prophets and righteous men of old were persecuted before them. He gave in-
577
struction concerning the keeping of records, and closed with the promise that inasmuch as he was unable to address the saints, he would write them from time to time. (See D. & C., Section 127.)
12. Again, on the 6th of September, 1842, while in seclusion at the home of Brother Edward Hunter, Nauvoo, he wrote another letter to the saints dealing chiefly with the subject of baptism for the dead. He says: "I now resume the subject of the baptism for the dead, as that subject seems to occupy my mind and press itself upon my feelings the strongest, since I have been pursued by my enemies." (D. & C. 128:1.) He again emphasizes the necessity of keeping records and having them witnessed by two or more competent persons and says that this is in conformity with the will of God, prepared for the salvation of the dead before the foundation of the world. (Verses 2-5.)
13. He declares that the ordinance of baptism for the dead is a function only of the priesthood through revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein he promised that "whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven." He remarks that some will regard this as a very bold doctrine, but answers the objection by stating that whenever the Lord has established a dispensation of the priesthood by actual revelation, this power has always been given. He further declares that "For him to whom these keys (of the priesthood) are given, there is no difficulty in obtaining a knowledge of facts in relation to the salvation of the children of men, both as well for the dead as for the living." (Verse 11.)
14. Then he makes the following appeal: "Brethren, shall we not go on in so great a cause? Go forward and not backward. Courage, breth-
578
ren; and on, on to the victory! Let your hearts rejoice, and be exceedingly glad. Let the earth break forth into singing. Let the dead speak forth anthems of eternal praise to the King Immanuel, who hath ordained before the world was that which would enable us to redeem them out of their prison; for the prisoners shall go free. Let the mountains shout for joy, and all ye valleys cry aloud; and all ye seas and dry lands tell the wonders of your Eternal King." (Verses 22, 23.) This does not sound like discouragement or despair, and remember that it was written only three days after the Prophet fled from the back door of his home while his enemies were pounding at the front for admission.
15. The Stamp of Divinity. In point of service to the children of God, the doctrine of baptism for the dead marks the Prophet Joseph as the outstanding benefactor to mankind of all modern churchmen. Many sectarians have declared that those who do not have the opportunity to hear and receive the Gospel cannot be saved: others of the more merciful type, have passively taken the stand that God will be just. But no one except the Prophet has provided a means by which the saving principles of the Gospel can reach the dead as well as the living. Christianity, in its sectarian form, reaches but a very small fraction of the children of God, but as revealed through Joseph Smith, it reaches all.
16. Comprehensiveness of Mormonism. On the first day of January, 1843, while the Prophet was awaiting trial at Springfield, Illinois, before Judge Pope of the Federal court, he made the following statement to Mr. Justin Butterfield, United States district attorney: "The most prominent difference in sentiment between the Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and sectarians was that the latter were all circumscribed by some peculiar creed, which deprived its members of the privilege of believing anything not contained therein, whereas the Latter-day Saints have no creed, but are ready to believe all true principles that exist, as they are made manifest from time to time." (History of the Church, Vol. V, p. 215.)
17. From the standpoint of breadth of vision and comprehensiveness of purpose, this statement doubtless surpasses any principle ever announced by the sectarian world. To the Latter-day Saints it possesses a two-fold purpose: It contains the announcement that the Church has no creed, which in substance may be interpreted to mean that its members should be slow indeed to reach dogmatic conclusions concerning things of which little is known. (Doubtless this applies with especial emphasis to teachers within the Church.) The other part of the statement announces that the Latter-day Saints are ready to accept all truth as it is made known from time to time. This of course applies both to truth revealed by the Prophet of God and to truth discovered by his children. It makes of Mormonism the most comprehensive of all religions?really the system of universal truth? and it encourages Latter-day Saints to delve into every honorable field of research, knowing that whenever truth is found it comes from God, the creator of heaven and earth and all things within them.
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. When are you personally the most easily discouraged, in times of hardship or of ease? Why?
LESSON DEPARTMENT
2. Are you personally willing to sacrifice your own pleasures for months and years for the welfare of others? If so, why? If not, why not?
3. What does the Book of Abraham contain? Give a brief review.
4. Can you recite the Articles of Faith? Try.
5. Are you heeding the Prophet's advice to go forward in the great cause of baptism for the dead? Are you converted to it? How fully do
579
your deeds reveal the extent of your conversion?
6. To what extent are you willing to accept truth when it comes to you? Are you obeying the instructions of the modern Prophet with respect to the Word of Wisdom? Tithing? Loyalty?
7. Do you really love the truth? When it comes to you are you willing to accept? When the Prophet speaks are you willing to obey?
Teachers' Topic (For February, 1935)
"A soft answer turneth away wrath, But grievous words stir up anger." Prov. 15:1.
TO assume that life can go on with an even tenor of its days for any individual is a fallacy as we all know. In this proverb we have a formula for obtaining mastery over situations that might cause regrets and damage beyond repair.
'One hot word, one peevish reflection, one angry demand, one spiteful contradiction, begets another, and a third, and so on, till it proves like the cutting of a dam: when the water has got a little passage, it does itself widen the breach, bears down before it, and then there is no stopping it, no reducing it."
Why does a soft answer turn away wrath? Wrath is usually exhibited by loud harsh words or manners that are unseemly. To meet wrath with a soft word when harsh words were expected in return is to give the individual time to recover himself. Here again the element of contrast may be used to good advantage and the surprise of such a. Coping with the situation usually ends the disagreeableness and respect is engendered for those exercising self-control by refusing to be badgered into resentful words.
Christ has given us the high law of action: "And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other." We might very well call the above proverb the "forerunner" to bring us to this higher law for if we cannot control our own tongue how then can we turn the other cheek? This proverb deals with the pressing necessity of the moment.. The Apostle Paul goes a little farther in his epistle to the Ephesians when he admonished them saying: "Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. * * * Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth."
The applicability of this proverb is universal. The mother, the father, the husband, the wife, the teacher, the student, find this an equally valuable code of conduct in their relationships. Angelo Patri, the famous child authority, has said that the surest way to catch the attention of an angry, clamoring child is to answer its loudness with a mildness of speech and a softness of voice.
Browning in his poem, "A Wom-
580
an's Last Word," describes a man and wife quarreling, and the wife (a very wise woman) stops the dispute with a word not of anger, but of reconciliation. She says it is fatal for you and me, who have every reason for living together to become so absorbed in our quarrel that we lose Paradise.
"Let's contend no more, Love, Strive nor weep; All be as before, "Love, ?Only sleep.
"What so wild as words are? I and thou In debate, as birds are, Hawk on bough!
"See the creature stalking While we speak! Hush and hide the talking, Cheek on cheek.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"What so false as truth is, False to thee? Where the serpent's tooth is, Shun the tree?
"Where the apple reddens, Never pry? Lest we lose our Edens, Eve and I."
To meet the fire of wrathful words with the self-control extinguisher of soft answers?here is wisdom for all.
1. Discuss in connection with this proverb the proverb: "The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water; Therefore leave off contention before it rolleth onward."
Handwork Department
"Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home."
THE Work and Business program is not only to help the needy but to teach how to improve and beautify the home. Handicraft for Everywoman is full of ideas and suggestions for home decoration and improvement. Stake or ward leaders should use it to make plans for the handicraft section. See last paragraph in "Foreword" by President Robison. At the first meeting introduce it with so much enthusiasm that "everywoman everywhere" must have a book. Read the Foreword to the members, also part of Acknowledgments emphasizing third paragraph. Summarize "Contents." Use any good method your prolific minds suggest to do the work. Questions and suggestions are welcomed by the General Board.
Suggestive Study on Consumer Problems
THE changes that have occurred in general economic conditions since 1929 have forced drastic readjustments of all kinds. As a result business is struggling along attempting to find its way to a new basis. Likewise consumption has greatly changed and consumers are gradually working their way towards new standards on stable grounds.
Consumer interests are as broad as their desires from the penny article to the more expensive tapestry or painting. How to get the most satisfaction for these desires and human needs as food, clothing, health, recreation, investments, and other things according to the income and
LESSON DEPARTMENT
standards of the family is the big problem of consumption.
The aim of these discussions is:
1. To make women consumer-conscious.
2. To urge housewives to become intelligent buyers.
3. To aid in better cooperation with local grocers and markets it is to help educate the consumer in problems vital in increasing the purchasing power beyond their own every-day needs.
The majority of people are trying to make ends meet, but when confronted with the problem of readjustment to lower standards, these efforts and trends toward better economic conditions will need be supplemented by careful study in consumption. The household buyer must balance her own needs against her purchasing power in terms of merchandise within her own possibilities. She needs to know her marketing problems and if she would be a better buyer she needs to consider her present buying custom, such as:
1. Box, package, sack, can, or small, medium and large, rather than weight or measure, are terms used to describe quantities of goods bought.
2. Little attention is paid to name of producer.
3. Labels on packaged or canned goods not read.
4. Does not ask for brands.
5. Does not look for forms or composition.
581
6. Relies too much on advice of clerks and salesmen.
7. Influenced by flowery advertising.
8. Acts too much on judgment of friends.
Questions
1. Define consumption.
2. Differentiate between consumers and producers when discussing these problems.
3. What percentage of household buying is done by women.
4. What in your opinion are some of the difficulties involved in household buying.
5. Why have consumer problems been slow to receive public attention as far as government policy is concerned.
6. Discuss the buying habits of the women in your community.
References
Bureau of Home Economics, Washington, D. C. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Washington, D. C. Consumers Counsel A. A. A., Washington, D. C. Consumers Advisory N. R. A., Washington D. C. Consumers Research, Washington, N. J. American Home Economics Ass., Baltimore, Md. Government Bulletins. Bulletins and Leaflets from local High Schools and Colleges.
Literature (For Third Week in February)
ADVENTURES IN READING
BOOK FRIENDS
"Come, my best friends, my books! And lead me on."?Cowley.
582
MEN and Women of Bookland?what a delectable company! Characters made not born, the creation of a poet's brain. Linking men to men, nation to nation, century to century they have become monuments to the creator of Man.
Friends and companions of Man, he summons you at will to do his bidding, to jest and smile with him, to push back far horizons, renew a vision of beauty, to whisper a message of hope. By man for man you were made, from man to man you go, "The choir invisible whose music is the gladness of the world."
Book Friends
To create a character and send it down the ages to be a friend to man of all climes and conditions is the work of a master artist spirit. Literature has a gallery of men and women of such variety and humanity that to know them makes "The whole world kin." No nation is foreign when we may become a bookland visitor at will. Book people are world citizens.
As the years pass, the friends of the reader form a goodly company. No two companies, however, will be alike. In some lists of book friends, Horace, Omar Khayyam, Carlyle, Goethe will find a place; in others Ibsen, Stevenson, Dr. Johnson will be favorites. But to all the world the great characters of literature are friends, among the most-loved characters are the universal favorites: Ulysses in Homer's "Iliad" and especially in his "Odyssey," King Arthur in Malory's "Morte D'Arthur" and Tennyson's "Idyls of the King," Beatrice in Dante's "Divine Comedy," Don Quixote in Cervantes' "Don Quixote," Falstaff in Shakespeare's "Henry IV" (Parts I and II) and "Merry Wives of Windsor," Hamlet in Shakespeare's "Hamlet, Prince of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Denmark," Robinson Crusoe in Daniel Defoe's "Robinson Crusoe," Faust in Goethe's "Faust," Leatherstocking in James Fennimore Cooper's "Leather Stocking Tales," Pippa in Robert Browning's "Pippa Passes," Becky Sharp in Thackeray's "Vanity Fair," David Copperfield in Dickens' "David Copperfield," Silas Marner in George Eliot's "Silas Marner," Jean Valjean in Victor Hugo's "Les Miserables," and Uncle Remus in Joel Chandler Harris' "Uncle Remus: His Songs and His Sayings," and "Nights with Uncle Remus."
They call to us these book friends, to laugh with them, love with them, and dream with them.
"Men and Women" ? Robert Browning
Robert Browning, Victorian contemporary of Alfred Tennyson, analyzed and interpreted the complexities of human life. Whether he was writing drama or dramatic monologues, the literary form which he largely perfected and popularized, his chief interest was the "History of Souls." The student of the life of Browning is struck with its consistency, its robust courage, and its joy of living. Browning through life was a theist?"God's in his heaven, all's well with the world" was his creed. Life to him was a period of probation and it was man's duty to "Hold on hope hard, in the subtle thing That's spirit: though cloistered fast soul free."
The poet's doctrine of individualism is the key to his message. Few men have remained as true to their purpose as Robert Browning. In fifty-seven years of creative labor,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
"Italy was his second country, The Alps, Appenines, the blue waters of the Mediterranean, every pine forest, church, palace, town-hall, painting or marketplace, every great life that had honored, admired or made romantic Italy, the great mother of beauty was his inspiration." All that he met and remembered was woven into lyric or narrative or drama in his heart. His best and finest work, "Men and Women" chiefly dramatic monologues is one of the notable achievements of English poetry. No other writer has so effectively used his imaginative ability to create representations where the mental characters of individuals are revealed by themselves as Browning has done in his dramatic monologues. The poet's purpose was not only to portray individuals, but to present the characteristics of an age, a type of people, a religion, or an emotion. For his situations he searched the annals of humanity, history, and literature, for his inspiration he mingled freely in the world of men and women.
The drama was the first literary form used by Browning for his literary expression, but this was a mistake. The stage only reveals characters in action. Therefore, the plays "Paracelsus," "Strafford," "The Return of the Druses," and others were failures, because they were silent dramas of the mind and heart of man. It was necessary then for the poet to find a new literary form for his great purpose:
"For a nobler stage the soul itself Its shifting fancies and celestial lights, With all its grand orchestral silences To keep the pauses of the rhythmic sounds."
583
The scenery is laid in the chambers of thought, his persons are feelings, his situations are emotions, his crises and catastrophies are moods. The new form originated for this great expression was the dramatic monologue. Mrs. Orr in her excellent work, "The Handbook to Browning," states, "These monologues in which the human spirit is represented as communing with itself, contains some of the poet's noblest dramatic work."
In the last poem written, the poet gives a faithful analysis of himself:
"One who never turned his back but marched breast forward, Never doubted clouds would break Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph, Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better. Sleep to wake."
Pippa, the Silk-Winder of Asolo
One of the most valuable legacies left to the world by Browning is the spirit of good cheer found in Pippa's song, "God's in his heaven;" it is the epitome of the poet's philosophy of life. "Pippa Passes," a drama for reading, published in 1849, won for Browning his first public recognition. The poem is a lyrical soliloquy and the dramatic element is introduced by dialogue throughout the four acts. The action represents the course of one day? "Morning," "Noon," "Evening," and "Night," the four acts. The occasion?Pippa, the girl from the silk-mills of Asolo, has a holiday, it is New Year's Day. Pippa resolves as she springs out of bed this first day of the year, to make it an inspiration for the whole year. Her plan is to impersonate the happiest persons in Asolo. Ottima and Se-
584
bald, happy lovers, shall have the morning; Jules and Phene, the bride and bridegroom, shall have the noonday; Luigi and his mother, contented and peaceful, shall have the evening; and Monsignor, a holy man of God, shall have the night.
Ottima and Sebald have murdered the husband, and Ottima is trying to silence the remorse of her lover, showing no sorrow for the murder of her husband. She has succeeded in dulling his conscience till Pippa passes singing her song?
"God's in his heaven? All's right with the world."
and their hearts are softened to seek an end to their wickedness.
Jules, the gifted young sculptor, has been cheated in his wife. He thought her cultured and refined, but he finds her an ignorant girl. At first he is angry but later realizing his moral responsibility, decides to give her all the money he can spare and let her go. He is just doing so when Pippa passes singing her song. His conscience awakens and he decides to keep his wife and educate her soul.
Luigi and his mother are in their turret. He believes his mission is to kill the Austrian Emperor. His mother is pleading with him, using the lover Chiara as a plea. The mother has almost succeeded when Pippa passes singing of a great and just king of days gone by. Luigi renews his courage to crush tyranny in the form of the Emperor. He goes out to perform his mission missing the police who were awaiting him.
The dusk awakens into night as Pippa approaches the Duomo St. Aria. Some girls are sitting on the steps exchanging wishes as they watch for Pippa, to lure her into conversation. Monsignor is planning Pippa's destruction. She is the child
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of his brother and stands between him and the wealth he is enjoying. Everything has been arranged for the girl's disappearance when, unrecognized, she passes singing of her childhood and her trust in God. Something in her song stings the conscience of Monsignor and the plan is abandoned. Pippa goes home at the end of the only holiday of the year, unconscious of the power of good she has wielded by the suggestions of her simple songs.
The poem is unique in form and conception, the language musical and dramatic, and the message of universal appeal. The poet, Browning, acknowledges his personal preference for this poem.
Charles Dickens, Novelist
To know the life of Charles Dickens, of his home life, of the environments of his youth, and when famous, of his unhappy wedded life, gives the reader of his works a deeper admiration than he had before. Charles Dickens, one of the most popular novelists of the nineteenth century and one of the greatest humorists that England has produced, was born at Sandport, a suburb of Chatham, February 7, 1812. John Dickens, the father of Charles, was employed as a clerk in the Navy Pay Office, Portsmouth. Thus the venerable chalk hills, the deep green lanes, woodland and marshes of Rochester and Chatham became in the words of Charles Dickens "the birthplace of his fancy." The very first number of "Pickwick Papers" describes the ancient yet homely Rochester, and it was at Chatham that poor little David Copperfield on his solitary tramp to Dover "slept his Sunday night's sleep near a cannon happy in the society of the sentry's footsteps." Dickens de-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
scribes himself as a queer small boy, a not over particularly cared for boy. After his mother had taught him to read and had sent Fanny, his sister, to a small private school. Charles was apprenticed to Mr. Creakle and Mr. Mell in "David Copperfield."
At the age of seventeen, Dickens secured employment as a reporter. He made himself the best reporter in the Gallery of the House of Commons. For his sister, Fanny, Dickens evinced the tenderest attachment and there are many unmistakable allusions in his works. "My sister George Stroughill, he reproduced as Steerforth in "David Copperfield."
One of the two great passions of the childhood Charles Dickens was his devotion to books. "The pleasant days came to an end when the family returned to London, and in the darkest period of the family went to the Marshalsea Prison. In December, 1833, the Monthly Magazine published a sketch Dickens had been found and passed in March, 1836, with the first Publication of ?Pickwick papers.? There is none like the writings of Dickens for unflagging and never unwise merriment. If there is nothing so humorous in "Pickwick Papers" as Sam Weller ,there is nothing so pathetic in it as the relation between him and his master. During the years of literary fame in prison, Dickens resided chiefly in London. "David Copperfield," I Dickens visited America, where he received an enthusiastic welcome. ?American Notes" and ?Martin Chuzzlewit? are the poduct of this visit. The readers of Dickens admire his skill in telling a story and in painting portraits, his frolicsome humor and general kindliness and goodness of heart and his readiness to smite entrenched evil in the ho[pe of leaving a better world behind. Of the large gallery of portraits, those that will 586 linger in our memory are Mrs. Gamp, Fagin; Peggoty; the others have become universal types?Mr. Micawber, Mrs. Jellyby, Old Scrooge, Mr. Pechshiff, Uriah Heap. "David Copperfield" To Charles Dickens, "David Copperfield" was his favorite child. The story was in part his own story as it became "The Personal History of David Copperfield" imagination colored, experiences, smiles, and banished tears. In the opening chapters of the novel we see David and his pretty child-mother, Peggoty his nurse with her unexaggerated goodness; her needle-marked finger, and her red cheeks. The early visit of Peggoty's family was a great occasion to David. Yarmouth, the fishing port, became a veritable Aladdin's lamp to David's childish imagination. The romantic boat-house, its owner, Mr. Peggoty, a "bachelore;" its inmates, Ham, his nephew; little Emily, his niece; and Mrs. Gummidge, his old fishing partner's widow. It was a glorious two months. David returned home to find his home and mother in the hands of her new husband, Mr. Murdstone, and his sister, Jane, a grim thinlipped, metallic woman. The Murdstone passages are hard to read. David is disciplined by flogging and isolation in his room. Finally he is sent away to school. The school, its masters, and its pupils are vividly portrayed. The unscrupulous Mr. Creakle is a relief from the Murdstones. At Salem House tear-blotted copy books and whippings were his portion. David the lonely child, gave all his love and idolatry to a Jonathan, in a big, handsome, strong, kind boy, James Steerforth. To Tommy Traddles, another unforRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tunate boy, David owed his enduring tenderness towards life. The death of David's "little mother" left him alone in the world save for Peggoty. He was sent to London to work in the wine factory of Murdstone and Grinby. Living with the Micawbers, life was a struggle with poverty. The immortal Micawber was always "waiting for something to turn up" to solve his problem. Mrs. Micawber did her best to help the family resources by keeping a school, a Boarding Establishment for Young Ladies. When the Micawbers were imprisoned for debt, David helped the family as long as he could. His own miserable condition was relieved when Nurse Peggoty sent him money to go to his aunt, Betsy Trotwood, at Dover. Robbed of his money, David trudged along, starved and weary. It was a ragged figure that came to Betsy Trotwood in her garden one morning. It was the beginning of a new life for David. Now known as Trotwood Copperfield life was a new type of adventure with a pair of delightful ec-. Centrics, Miss Trotwood and her loyal friend, Mr. Dick, as guardians. Later David was sent to school at Canterbury. Boarding at the home of Mr. Wickfield, the lawyer, David has for a companion, Agnes Wickfield, a girl of his own age. All his perplexities, hopes, and dreams, David poured out to Agnes. Upon the loss of Betsy Trotwood's fortune, David was forced again to go out into the world. This time he became a reporter of the Parliamentary debates; later he wrote for magazines. Then David met Dora, a diminutive frail little blossom of a woman. It was a tender meeting. Dora is a wonderful creation. The courtship, marriage, and death of Dora are affecting records of a child-wife, her LESSON DEPARTMENT little follies, her shortcomings, and her sweet lovableness. The story of James Steerforth is closely interwoven with that of David Copperfield. Steerforth had visited the boat-house of the Peggoty's at Yarmouth with Copperfield on one occasion. Guided by his own restless will and aided by his mother's wealth, Steerforth was lounging through life taking what he wished for his pleasure. After the death of Dora, David returned to Yarmouth for rest and quiet. Ham, a physical giant with the heart of a gentleman, loved Little Emily. The wedding was arranged, but Little Emily left before with: Steerforth. Peggoty went and found his little girl and brought her back. Years later David was visiting Yarmouth again. A storm was raging. Ham went to the aid of a sinking vessel. This storm took as its victims, Ham, the valiant sailor, and Steerforth, the human derelict. The characters are all at home again when the Micawbers return from Australia, financially secure. The perfidy of Uriah Heep, Mr. Wickfield's humble assistant, is discovered. Betsy Trotwood's fortune is recovered. Traddles is happy and successful. David marries Agnes. Life continues in serenity. To end "David Copperfield," the 587 about its author was said at the Dickens Centennary in London, 1912, by the Bishop of London: "Dickens' way of interesting people helped him immensely to find an interest in those people. Ah, if we only had his insight, we, too, would find something to care for, to love and to pity in every human being that lives." Guide to Preparation A. Suggested topics for Lesson Assigninents. 1. Book Friends. Personal reports by three members of books they consider friends. 2. The great characters of Literature. Select a few of the characters given in the lesson for brief reports. 3. Review: Pippa Passes. 4. Charles Dickens, Humanist. 5. David Copperfield and His Creator. 6. Reading: "The Bishop's Candlesticks from "Les Miserables."' Guide to Reading A. Take the great literary characters mentioned in the lesson and renew or make a new acquaintance with them. Tenderest, truest thing ever said Social Service (Fourth Week in February) LESSON V. THE NEW FAMILY HOME Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapter VI. The General purposes of this lesson are: 1. To appreciate the importance of the home in modern civilization. 2. To acquire, through increased knowledge, a greater feeling of responsibility in building a_ better home. 588 'A nation is what its homes are. With these it rises and falls, and it can rise no higher than the level of its home life." Wise, Stephen S., "Parent Versus Child." A review of the principal facts in the rise and fall of nations will show a very close relation between the success of a people as a nation and the success of the average family in that nation as a unit. The family has been rightfully called the basic institution of society upon which all other institutions have been built. In social studies an institution is described as an established phase of the public mind. It is the universally approved method of organizing and regulating the relations of men and women in performing a desirable and needed social function. A number of basic institutions are recognized, among which may be mentioned, in addition to the family, the church as an organized system of religious expression; education as the authorized means of passing the information of the day on to the next generation; government as an accepted means of control of social action, and property as the established means of protecting individual property rights. Others may be mentioned, but probably none are as basic. The ultimate right of all institutions to exist is the efficient performance of desirable social functions. Wherever these functions are not performed efficiently the institution should be so modified and changed that it will serve the best interests of society. The home is called basic in institutional life, because from it evolves the very nature of social organization and national security. From it the child derives his basic ideas of obedience, of citizenship, of respect for authority, his spiritual and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE religious ideals, and even his ideas of speech. Upon the integrity of the home rests the future promises of life itself. The home of today stands out in marked contrast to the home of earlier periods. It is losing many of its desirable social functions. A primitive woman was not only a mother; she was a farmer, a carrier of burdens, a miller, stoneworker, basketmaker, weaver, potter, meat curer, cook, and baker. In many of these arts the women were extremely skilled. In many North American Indian tribes the women held a position of supreme importance, often having rights superior to those of the men in such things as land transfers, negotiating terms of alliance, the holding of the wealth of the tribe, and important legislative and judicial matters. The typical North American pioneer home is still remembered in most communities. In periods of economic insecurity we read almost with envy of the bounteous provision of a well managed home, the work being largely that of the mother of the family. (See text, p. 75.) The Mormon pioneers were exceptional in establishing admirable home conditions under trying circumstances, and the women were examples of frugality and social accomplishment. "Spinning wheels and rope bottomed chairs made of willow and buckskin graced the rooms, and wellmade rag carpets covered the floor of the living room. In many of the homes were musical instruments. "Teach home was a center of hospitality. Strangers along the highways were never refused meat and bread. The people shared with one another, and the 'parties' and games of those bygone days made everybody happy. Their friendship for one another grew with the years. It LESSON DEPARTMENT was a common saying among travelers: 'Where the bishop lives, there we will receive a hearty welcome.' If one settler lost his crop, the others shelped him through the winter. If a man was unable to work, 'the neighbors turned out to assist him'." Young, "The Founding of Utah." In spite of the difficult conditions under which people lived, such as their lack of convenient appliances with which to work, and of the economic difficulties in obtaining working materials, the pioneer home possessed, as a rule, the essentials for efficient social living. To it, the children and their friends turned for joy and amusement. For its upbuilding and sustenance they gave of their time and efforts. It was there that they received their social, civic, and spiritual ideals of life. By working with their fathers and mothers, and by enjoying common amusements, the children unconsciously absorbed those elements of industrial and social culture which are essential to national security and individual well being. The modern family stands out in marked contrast to that of all previous ages. Ease, comfort, and release from many former difficulties are its characteristics. The technical processes of housekeeping have been reduced by automatic and electrically operated equipment. The hard labor of the home is often removed entirely, or performed by specialists from the outside. Central heating plants, thermostatically controlled; automatic air conditioning to maintain a comfortable temperature in both winter and summer, electric refrigeration; and the world's greatest music and lectures 589 by the mere touch of a button, are just a few of the miracles which the modern home expects. While all the changes that have come into the modern home have brought ease, comfort and joy to the family, like all good things in life, each has its price. As was pointed out in Lesson II the domination of the machine has deprived the home of its former socializing opportunities. More and more the duties and responsibilities of parents for the education, training, religious teaching, and even supervision of physical development, is being turned over to other agencies. The culture of the coming generation is too-often the culture of outside socializing influences instead of the culture of the home. The challenge to parents is how to enjoy all the modern conveniences of our age and still maintain that spirit of the home, and those family ideals and cultures which will make of the family the basic institution of society, and thus build a still greater nation and spirituality. "Real joy comes not from ease, not from riches, not from the applause of men, but from having done things that are worthwhile." Wilford T. Grenfell. Activities Read Proverbs 31:10-31. Compare the ideals there set forth for a wife and mother in a home with the accomplishments of the pioneer women of North America and then with the accomplishments in homes of today. Does the comparison reveal any social obligation on the part of parents of today? If so, what?  Mission Lessons HEALTH LESSONS 1935-36 LESSON V. FOODS GREAT French surgeon and scientist by the name of. Doctor Lucas Chamtioneera, went to the Balkan countries some years ago, and made a study of the Roumanian people in their habits. He noted that in the rural districts they were pretty strictly vegetarian, while in the cities they had a mixed diet. He discovered that the rural Roumanian people where they were strictly vegetarian had one case of appendicitis to every two thousand two hundred of the rank and file, while in the cities where there was a mixed diet with meat added, there was one case to every two hundred and twenty. In other words there was ten times as much appendicitis with the meat eaters as there was with the vegetarians. This same great author says the same thing is true of the Arabs and the Japanese. The meat eating Arab has appendicitis, while the vegetarian Arab escapes. It seems to be a general rule that the eating of meat is one of the prominent causes of this dreaded disease. Now nature indicates that we need some of that meat food to make up the waste of protein in the body. But if we take too much of it we predispose ourselves to appendicitis, and other diseases such as high blood pressure, chronic kidney inflamma: tion, etc. We answer in the language of the Word of Wisdom, eat it sparingly, and especially in diminished quantities in the warm summer months. People who live entirely on vegetable foods develop anemia and lower their vitality accordingly. We should learn to be wise in all things. To replace the body wastes we need a mixed diet consisting of starches, fats and protein. If we leave any one of these out entirely, we throw our nutrition out of balance, just as we would by overindulgence i in any one of them. Sugar is a necessary part of our diet. It is so nearly akin to starch that a very little chemical change converts the one into the other. Sugar is the gasoline to the engine. As the automobile has a gasoline tank to hold the overplus of fuel and deal it out gradually as the carburetor consumes it, so we have a storage tank in the liver which takes up the starch and converts it into glycogen, a form of sugar that can be held in reserve and doled out as the body needs to consume it. Now this sugar cannot be used by the body until it is acted upon by insulin, a normal product of the pancreas. If we take too much sugar the pancreas is overworked and gives up its task completely and for good. This condition of failure of the pancreas to produce insulin is known as diabetes. The sugar which cannot be utilized because of the failure of insulin is thrown off by the kidneys. The individual so afflicted gradually loses weight and strength, and drinks quantities of water, there is great over-activity of the kidneys, and much discomfort from that cause. Nearly all the sugar, which is the real force producing part of the food, is thus thrown to the waste, the gradual decline ends finally in death. Differing from most every other disease diabetes is a much more serious disease in young than in old people. A Canadian doctor named Banting learned how to extract the LESSON DEPARTMENT insulin from the pancreas of the sheep. This can be used with a hypodermic syringe, and it offsets much of the disability of the diabetic, and may prolong life to the ordinary expectancy. In the time of the American Civil War the per capita consumption of sugar was nine pounds per year, but at the present time in America it is over one hundred pounds per year, and diabetes has increased proportionately, until we have more than a million diabetics at the present time. The confectioners have put up sugar in such enticing forms in their fine chocolates and creams that children and young people particularly are tempted to eat altogether too much of it, and they are paying the price of their pleasure in later years by developing diabetes. We need some sugar of course in our diet, but we should carefully avoid over-indulgence in it. It occurs 'in such variable forms that it is hard to indicate just how much one should eat, and each will have to be his own judge, keeping in mind always moderation. Children should be restrained from eating large quantities of the various sweets and candies sold by the confectioners. A great London surgeon, by the name of Sir Frederic Treeves, used to teach that the people who develop appendicitis almost invariably have the habit of swallowing their food whole without proper mastication. Not only appendicitis, but other digestive disturbances are caused by this indiscretion. Digestion is a chemical process, the purpose of which is to so reduce our food that it can be absorbed and assimilated. Common sense should teach us that the food should be ground fine in our mouth if we expect the proper chemical changes to occur in it in the stomach and intestine. 591 We should take a lesson from nature. The ox swallows his food whole at first, but nature has given him three stomachs instead of one. After he has filled the bunker with enough grass hastily eaten he goes and lies down under the shade of a tree and brings it back into his mouth and grinds and grinds it to fine consistency, and then swallows it again, when it goes into another stomach ready to receive and digest it. This we call chewing the cud. Now we ought to have as much sense as oxen, hadn't we? Instead of trying to atone for our diatetic sins by taking the pepsin of the ox's stomach for medicine, we ought to take hold of the other end of the problem, and learn to grind our own food to the proper consistency. We cannot chew the cud, but we can chew our food until it is reduced to the degree of fineness that will make digestion easy. We should avoid also over-eating, because an excess of food is not only unnecessary, but it is very harmful to the body. Questions What relation has meat eating to the development of appendicitis? What are the three kinds of food we need to make good the wastes of the body?" What happens if we discard meat entirely and live on vegetable food only? What does the Word of Wisdom say about meat eating? What is the objection of ?ating too much sugar? Describe the disease diabetes. Show how it has increased in America, and state why. What has science done to help the diabetic? Why should we chew the food well before swallowing it? Why should we avoid over-eating?