At the Close of Day By Joseph Quinney, Jr.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the glory of a well spent day. My friends were kind and good. They gave me "Frankincence and Myrrh." They gave me food, food that feeds the soul and brings it into transforming fellowship with Christ, the Lord. It was my day; it was God's day.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the meaning of GRATITUDE. I found it to be the great stream into which were ever flowing the other high and holy qualities of human life; it was adorable because it was touched with the glow of God and opened up the mind to the everlasting glories of the seen and the unseen; it was the unfolding of the heart and the soul.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the meaning of prayer. I found myself in sacred thought. This holy hour of prayer moved me up to God to feel His power, to know His truth and to see His light. I was moved in mighty love to give and bless, to know and feel. This silent hour was pure in thought and the glow of God was mine. It was my hour with God— alone.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the meaning of VIRTUE. I found myself lifted in thought, the spirit of deep appreciation was upon me. I looked up to God. I thanked Him for this saving grace of life, and said with Emerson, "I love the right; truth is beautiful within and without forevermore; Virtue, I am thine, save me; use me; thee will I serve day and night, in great, in small, that I may not be virtuous, but Virtue." Then, it is said, is the end of creation and God is well pleased.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the meaning of FAITH. I found myself looking confidently up to a power above, trusting, hoping, and believing in that power. I needed the Christ-like faith to lift my doubts and clear my vision, to give me strength to know the living God. I needed faith, a vital and living faith to visualize the glories of born and unborn time; to have the strength from God and the power to bless my friends. I needed the gift of faith to move in God's Holy Light, and to live the right.
AT THE CLOSE OF Day I catalogued the meaning of WORK. I found it to be the great gift of life, the summation of. All that's fine and good, the crowning glory of man, the everlasting discovery of light and truth, indeed, the dignified gift that refuses to grow dim. WORK: It is the sustaining power of all that's fine and beautiful, the vehicle of God with which His creations are made. O, God, grant me the gift of work. Let me ask no greater blessing.